IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA ______________________________ S.C.APPEAL 99A/2009 Hatton National Bank Limited Appeal No: WP/HCCA/COL/248/2007(F) having its registered office at No.481, D.C.Colombo: 16985/99/MB T.B.Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10. And having its branch office at No.16, Janadhipathi Mawatha, Colombo 1. Plaintiff Vs 1. Rumeco Industries Limited No.99, Cotta Road, Borella. 2. Shirani Jasintha Thirunavukkarasu, No.15, Melbourne Avenue, Colombo 4 and No.99, cotta road, Borella. 3. Kangasabapathy Thirunavukkarasu, No.15, Melbourne Avenue, Colombo 4. And No,99, Cotta Road, Borella. Defendants AND Hatton National Bank Limited having its registered office at No.481, T.B.Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10. And having its branch office at No.16, Janadhipathi Mawatha, Colombo 1. Plaintiff-Appellant Vs 1. Rumeco Industries Limited No.99,Cotta Road, Borella. 2. Shirani Jasintha Thirunvakarasu, No.15, Melbourne Avenue, Colombo 4 and No.99, Cotta Road, Borella. 3. Kangasabapathy Thirunavukarasu, No.15, Melbourne Avenue, Colombo 4. And No,99, Cotta Road, Borella. Defendants-Respondents Hatton National Bank Limited having its registered office at No.481, T.B.Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10. And having its branch office at No.16, Janadhipathi Mawatha, Colombo 1. Plaintiff-Appellant-Appellant Vs 1. Rumeco Industries Limited No.99,Cotta Road, Borella. 2. Shirani Jasintha Thirunvakarasu, No.15, Melbourne Avenue, Colombo 4 and No.99, cotta road, Borella. 3. Kangasabapathy Thirunavukarasu, No.15, Melbourne Avenue, Colombo 4. And No,99, Cotta Road, Borella. Defendants-Respondents￾Respondents Before: Amaratunga J, Imam J, Suresh Chandra J. I.Idroos with T.D.Ediriweera for Plaintiff-Appellant-Appellant S.P.Sriskantha with Sashika Rupasinghe for 3rd defendant-Respondent-Respondent Argued on: 9 th September 2010 WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS FILED ON: 8/10/2011 for Plaintiff-Appellant-Appellant Decided on: 8 th June 2011 Suresh Chandra J, This is an appeal from the judgment of the Provincial High Court of the Western Province holden in Colombo. The Plaintiff-Appellant had instituted action against the Defendants-Respondents on the basis of a term Loan granted to the 1st Defendant which was purported to be guaranteed by the 2nd and 3rd Respondents and claimed the sums due from them jointly and severally. The 1st and 2nd defendants failed to appear before Court and an ex parte judgment was delivered against them. The 3rd defendant filed answer and on the conclusion of the ex parte trial against the 1st and 2nd Respondents, the trial against the 3rd defendant commenced. The Plaintiff led evidence through an officer of the Bank after the framing of issues, which were fourteen in number, and produced documents marked P1 to P8. Two witnesses gave evidence for the 3rd defendant and after both parties tendered written submissions, judgment was reserved and judgment was delivered dismissing the plaintiff’s action. The plaintiff appealed against the said judgment to the Provincial High Court and that Court by judgment dated 16th December 2008, dismissed the said appeal. The Plaintiff-Appellant sought leave to appeal to the Supreme Court and leave was granted on the following questions: (a) Has the Provincial High Court of the Western Province erred in not coming to the finding that P6 is a rescheduling of P1? (b) Has the Provincial High Court of the Western Province erred in not coming to the finding that the Guarantee Bond marked P5 is a continuing security? (c) Has the Provincial High Court of the Western Province erred in not coming to the finding that the 3rd Defendant is liable for the money due to the Petitioner under P5 and P6 ? (d) If so should the judgment and decree against the 3rd Defendant be entered as prayed for in the prayer to the plaint? The averments in the plaint of the plaintiff set out firstly a case against the 1st Defendant on the basis of a term loan of Rs. 1 Million granted on 28th May 1995 (Document ‘A’ ) and the security on the said loan being provided for by two mortgage bonds (Document s marked ‘B’ and ‘C’) regarding movables. The plaintiff annexed to the plaint the said documents on which the term loan was granted, the mortgage bonds, the statement of accounts and the demand for payment. The 3rd defendant in his answer denied any cause of action and consequently denied any Liability. The plaintiff when leading evidence in respect of the ex parte trial against the 1st and 2nd Defendants went on the basis in which the plaint was filed, which was starting with the term loan granted on 28th May 1995(Document ‘A’ dated 28th April 1995), the two Mortgage Bonds (B – 705 dated 3 rd December 1987 and ‘C” – 343 dated 22nd March 1993 ) leading upto the default in payment. The Document ‘A” referred to a Term Loan of Rs.1.0 Million and as security Mortgage over the stocks of the Company were referred to. When the contested matter was taken up against the 3rd Defendant for trial the plaintiff started off on the basis of a facility given in 1992, that there was a rescheduling of that loan , that the said loan was covered by the security given on 20th October 1992(which was marked as P5), that the document dated 28th May 1995 referring to the term loan (marked as P6) was a rescheduling of the loan given in 1992, and that the 3rd defendant was liable for the default of the 1st defendant as he had personally guaranteed the loan given to the 1st Defendant in 1992 by document marked P5. This position of the plaintiff was completely different from the position set out in the pleadings in the plaint which was on the basis of a term loan granted in 1995 by P6. The 3rd defendant took up the position that the term loan was a different transaction and that that the 3rd Defendant had not guaranteed the payment of that loan, even though the plaintiff sought to show that the guarantee given by the 3rd defendant in 1992(P5) covered the term loan as well. A perusal of the document P6 which was the term loan had no reference whatsoever to the personal guarantee given by the 3rd Defendant. Explanation 2 of S.150 of the Civil Procedure Code states the case enunciated must reasonably accord with the party’s pleading. And no party can be allowed to make at the trial a case materially different from that which he has placed on record, and which his opponent is prepared to meet. In Y.M.B.A. v Abdul Azeez Bar Journal 1997 Vol.VII Part I page 34 it was held that no party can be allowed to make at the trial a case materially different from that which he has placed on record. The Plaintiff in this case while sticking to his pleadings when conducting the ex parte trial against the 1st and 2nd defendant, proceeded on a different basis when proceedings in the contest against the 3rd defendant which ironically was a sequel to the contract entered into between the Plaintiff and 1st defendant as the 3rd Defendant was sued as a purported guarantor. The contract between the plaintiff and the 1st defendant did not bind the 3rd Defendant and the attempt by the plaintiff to bring in the 3rd defendant on a personal guarantee given earlier in 1992 was a vain attempt to make the 3rd defendant liable for the default by the 1st defendant. The plaintiff sought to show that the guarantee given by the 3rd defendant in 1992 was a continuing guarantee which covered all facilities granted to the 1st defendant. But the term loan document did not mention about the personal guarantee given in 1992 which had been given regarding earlier transactions. The plaintiff also tried to show that the term loan given in 1995 was a rescheduling of the loan given to the 1st defendant previously but a perusal of the document P5 does not state so and it states specifically that it is a term loan granted to the 1st defendant. The learned District Judge dismissed the case of the plaintiff against the 3rd defendant on the basis that the transaction sued upon was the term loan granted in 1995 and that it had not been guaranteed by the 3rd defendant. The High Court affirmed the said decision and examined the law relating to novation of contracts and arrived at the conclusion that there was a novation of the earlier loan granted by the plaintiff and that the term loan was a new contract. The High Court cited C. G. Weeramantry at page 719 to the effect that “A novation discharges not only the original obligation but the obligations accessory to it. Interest, penal charges, suretyships and pledges, accessory to the original contract, are thus all discharged. In the words of Lord Moulton, in explaining the similar English concept of ‘accord and satisfaction by substituted agreement’, “No matter what were the rights of the parties inter se, they are abandoned in consideration of the acceptance by all of a new agreement. The consequence is that when such an accord and satisfaction takes place, the prior rights of the parties are extinguished. They have in fact been exchanged for the new rights; and the new agreement becomes a new departure, and the rights of all the parties are fully represented by it.” (Palaniappa v Saminathan 17 N.L.R. at 58.) On a consideration of the evidence, the documents, the proceedings and the judgments of the District Court and the High Court, it is quite clear that the action brought to court by the plaintiff specially against the 3rd defendant was based on the term loan granted in 1995 and that the guarantee given by the 3rd defendant in 1992 cannot be considered as a continuing guarantee. In view of this position the grounds on which leave was granted by this Court have to be answered in the negative. It is to be observed that Banks adopt a general practice of securing guarantees when granting loans and the obtaining of a continuing personal guarantee is often resorted to. This case is yet another example of a Bank trying to get the optimum type of security and guarantee from a customer when granting a facility. Customers very often are not mindful of what they are signing specially when the documents presented to them are long winded and often in a language not really understood by them. It would be in the best of interests of both banks and customers for the Banks to explain with care the type of documents obtained from customers and their effect in granting facilities. The appeal is accordingly dismissed and the judgment of the High Court and that of the District Court are affirmed with costs fixed at Rs.31,500/-. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT N.G.AMARATUNGA J. I agree. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT S.I.IMAM J. I agree. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT