IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA In the maƩer of an appeal under SecƟon 5C of the High Court of the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act No. 19 of 1990, as amended by Act No. 54 of 2006. SC Appeal No: 166/2014 SC/HCCA/LA No: 574/2012 WP/HCCA/Colombo/303/2003(F) DC Colombo Case No: 17815/MR K.D.A. Heƫarachchi, Premasiri Super Market, 243, R.A. De Mel Mawatha, Colombo 3. PLAINTIFF Vs. Ceylinco Insurance Company Limited, 15A, Alfred Place, Colombo 3 With its registered office at 2, Hyde Park Corner, Colombo 2. DEFENDANT And between Ceylinco Insurance Company Limited, 15A, Alfred Place, Colombo 3 With its registered office at 2, Hyde Park Corner, Colombo 2. DEFENDANT – APPELLANT 2 Vs. K.D.A. Heƫarachchi, Premasiri Super Market, 243, R.A. De Mel Mawatha, Colombo 3. PLAINTIFF – RESPONDENT And now between K.D.A. Heƫarachchi, Premasiri Super Market, 243, R.A. De Mel Mawatha, Colombo 3. PLAINTIFF – RESPONDENT – APPELLANT Nadira Gishani Heƫarachchi Piyasena, 62/B/5, Vajira Road, Colombo 5. SUBSTITUTED – PLAINTIFF – RESPONDENT – APPELLANT Vs Ceylinco Insurance Company Limited, 15A, Alfred Place, Colombo 3 With its registered office at 2, Hyde Park Corner, Colombo 2. DEFENDANT – APPELLANT – RESPONDENT 3 Before: S. Thurairaja, PC, J Mahinda Samayawardhena, J Arjuna Obeyesekere, J Counsel: Dr. Sunil Cooray with Sudharshini Cooray for the PlainƟff – Respondent – Appellant Harsha Amarasekera, PC with Shehan Gunewardena for the Defendant – Appellant – Respondent Argued on: 21st October 2024 WriƩen Tendered by the PlainƟff – Respondent –Appellant on 2nd February 2015 Submissions: and 21st September 2020 Tendered by the Defendant – Appellant – Respondent on 3rd August 2015 and 5th November 2024 Decided on: 25th February 2025 Obeyesekere, J This appeal arises from a judgment delivered on 21st November 2011 by the Provincial High Court of the Western Province holden in Colombo exercising Civil Appellate jurisdicƟon [the High Court] by which the High Court set aside the judgment of the District Court and allowed the appeal filed by the Defendant – Appellant – Respondent [the Defendant]. Leave to appeal was granted by this Court on 15th September 2014 on two quesƟons of law, one raised by the PlainƟff – Respondent – Appellant [the PlainƟff], and the other by the Defendant, to which I shall advert to during the course of this judgment. Facts in brief The PlainƟff entered into an agreement on 4th November 1993 [P1] with M/s T.F.N. Pinto and Sons [the Contractor] for the construcƟon of a building for the PlainƟff at premises bearing assessment No. 316, Galle Road, Colombo 3. The Form of Tender tendered by the Contractor together with the CondiƟons of Contract and several other documents referred to in P1 formed part of P1. While the Form of Tender was marked as P1a, the 4 PlainƟff did not read in evidence the CondiƟons of Contract between him and the Contractor referred to in P1. M/s Design Team Three (Private) Limited [Consultant] was the architect of the said building and in addiƟon to its primary responsibility for the design, served as the Consultant to the project and was responsible for approving the payments due to the Contractor. The total value of the work that was to be performed by the Contractor, as set out in P1 was Rs. 24,416,118. Although the evidence does not expressly bear it out, it appears from the reference to a bill of quanƟƟes and schedule of rates and prices in P1a that P1 was a measure and pay contract. The Contractor was required to complete the building within a period of 18 months from the date of P1. The PlainƟff had paid the Contractor a sum of Rs. 4,892,000, being 20% of the contract sum, as an advance payment for the mobilizaƟon of the work. The parƟes had agreed that the said mobilizaƟon advance shall be recovered by deducƟng 20% from each interim payment made to the Contractor. The parƟes had also agreed that the PlainƟff shall be enƟtled to retain 10% from each interim payment as retenƟon money, with the Contractor enƟtled to the payment of such sums retained only at the end of the defects liability period, which according to P1 was six months from 4th May 1995. Having commenced and proceeded with the construcƟon, the Contractor had faced liquidity issues by early 1995 and had suspended work. The Contractor had thereaŌer made a request to the PlainƟff that a sum of Rs. 1,223,055.92 being the moneys retained as at that point in Ɵme in terms of P1 be paid to improve its cash flow thereby enabling it to re-commence work. This request of the Contractor had been approved by the Consultant. The PlainƟff, knowing fully well that releasing the said money to the Contractor would result in him losing the control he had over the Contractor in ensuring that any outstanding work is completed and/or the defects are remedied by the Contractor during the defects liability period, had requested that the said sum be secured by a performance bond. At the request of the Contractor, the Defendant had issued a “Combined Performance Bond” on 7th February 1995 [P4] for the said sum of Rs. 1,223,055.92 on behalf of the Contractor. 5 I must perhaps at this stage observe that the aforemenƟoned sum of money so retained by the PlainƟff belonged to the Contractor as these are monies deducted from payments for the work done by the Contractor but retained by the PlainƟff as security to ensure the compleƟon of outstanding work and/or recƟficaƟon of any defects in the building that may arise during the defects liability period. Exchanging the moneys so retained with a guarantee issued by a bank or an insurance company is not unusual in the field of construcƟon as both mechanisms, i.e., cash or guarantee not only seek to assure the employer [in this case the PlainƟff] that any loss suffered by him during the defects liability period are well secured but also provides the contractor with the much needed capital and improves its cash flow. Therefore, the idenƟcal purpose would be achieved, whether it be a cash security or a guarantee equivalent to such amount, provided the employer is able to secure a guarantee that permits him to receive payment on demand. Pursuant to the furnishing of P4, the PlainƟff had released the said sum of money retained by him in two instalments of Rs. 611,527.96 each, on 2nd March 1995 [P2] and 22nd March 1995 [P3]. In spite of the said sums being paid and the PlainƟff having granted the Contractor an extension of Ɵme unƟl 15th October 1995, the Contractor had failed to re￾commence and/or complete the work, as agreed, and had abandoned the site. By leƩer dated 26th October 1995 [P7], the PlainƟff had informed the Contractor of his default. On the same date, the PlainƟff had informed the Defendant as well of the default of the Contractor [P5] and demanded that the said sum of Rs. 1,223,055.92 be paid. Pursuant to correspondence exchanged between the parƟes to which I shall refer to later, the Defendant had failed to honour the demand made on it in terms of P4. It is this failure on the part of the Defendant that culminated in acƟon being filed by the PlainƟff. In order to give context to the final determinaƟon that I will arrive at, and being mindful that the nomenclature aƩached to P4 does not necessarily reflect its true character and that it is difficult to generalise guarantees in view of the differences in wording from one guarantee to another, I shall consider at the outset whether P4 was a performance bond in its true sense payable on demand or whether P4 was a condiƟonal guarantee where the liability of the Defendant was conƟngent upon the PlainƟff saƟsfying the Defendant that the Contractor was in default and the extent of such default and the damages suffered as a result of such default, prior to receiving payment under P4. 6 Bonds and Guarantees In construcƟon contracts, different types of security bonds and guarantees [which terms are used inter-changeably] are taken out by the contractor, usually with a bank or insurance company, for the benefit of and at the request of the employer, in a sƟpulated maximum sum of liability and enforceable by the employer in the event of the contractor's default, repudiaƟon or insolvency. The structure of a performance bond can be moulded to support a number of different kinds of potenƟal payment obligaƟons. These bonds range from advance payment bonds or mobilisaƟon bonds to secure the advance payment that is made to a contractor to enable the contractor to mobilise the work, to bonds that would secure the Ɵmely performance by the contractor as well as bonds that ensure the due compleƟon of the works and bonds that ensure that all defects that occur during the defects liability period are recƟfied. The essenƟal purpose of all these bonds is therefore to provide the employer with financial security in the form of cash payable by the bank for the contractor's failure to perform his obligaƟon under the construcƟon contract. In order to achieve this purpose, it is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that the relevant bond is worded accordingly. There are broadly two types of guarantees. The first type is a condiƟonal guarantee whereby the guarantor or the surety becomes liable upon proof of a breach of the terms of the principal contract by the contractor and the beneficiary sustaining damages as a result of such breach. The guarantor's liability will therefore arise as a result of the principal's default and the beneficiary establishing the quantum of damages suffered by it. The second type is an uncondiƟonal or an 'on-demand' payable guarantee which is worded in such a manner that the guarantor will become liable immediately upon a demand being made upon him by the beneficiary with there being no necessity for the beneficiary to prove any default in performance by the principal under the principal contract. It is these types of guarantees that are typically called performance bonds or demand guarantees. Under such bonds, the employer does not have to demonstrate that it has suffered any loss at the Ɵme at which the demand noƟce is issued, unless of course 7 the guarantee itself sƟpulates the form of the demand and/or the documents that must be submiƩed with the demand. On-demand bonds provide instant and easily accessible redress to employers, are seen as payment instruments and performs the role of an effecƟve safeguard against non￾performance, inadequate performance or delayed performance. As pointed out by Lord Denning in Edward Owen Engineering Limited v Barclays Bank InternaƟonal Limited and another [1978 Q.B. 159; at pages 170, 171], “these performance guarantees are virtually promissory notes payable on demand. So long as the Libyan customers make an honest demand, the banks are bound to pay: …All this leads to the conclusion that the performance guarantee stands on a similar fooƟng to a leƩer of credit. A bank which gives a performance guarantee must honour that guarantee according to its terms. It is not concerned in the least with the relaƟons between the supplier and the customer; nor with the quesƟon whether the supplier has performed his contracted obligaƟon or not; nor with the quesƟon whether the supplier is in default or not. The bank must pay according to its guarantee, on demand, if so sƟpulated, without proof or condiƟons. The only excepƟon is when there is a clear fraud of which the bank has noƟce.” In determining whether a bond is condiƟonal or otherwise, Court is concerned not with the nomenclature aƩached to it but with the contractual construcƟon or interpretaƟon of the bond or guarantee itself. While there are many variaƟons of the two standard types of bonds, a great deal depends on the needs and the intenƟon of the parƟes, with the wording of the guarantee reflecƟng such needs and intenƟons. The underlying legal disƟncƟon between the two types of bonds has been explained in Paget’s Law of Banking [15th ediƟon; page 988] as follows: “The essenƟal difference between a guarantee in the strict sense (i.e. a contract of suretyship) and a demand guarantee is that the liability of a surety is secondary, whereas the liability of the issuer of a demand guarantee is primary and triggered by demand. A surety’s liability is co-extensive with that of the principal debtor and, if default by the principal debtor is disputed by the surety, it must be proved by the creditor. Neither proposiƟon applies to a demand guarantee. The principle which underlies demand guarantees is that each contract is autonomous. In parƟcular, 8 the obligaƟons of the guarantor are not affected by disputes under the underlying contract between the beneficiary and the principal. If the beneficiary makes an honest demand, it maƩers not whether as between himself and the principal he is enƟtled to payment. The guarantor must honour the demand, the principal must reimburse the guarantor (or counter-guarantor), and any disputes between the principal and the beneficiary, including any claim by the principal that the drawing was a breach of the contract between them, must be resolved in separate proceedings to which the bank will not be a party.” [emphasis added] The above disƟncƟon was referred to in Spliethoff’s BevrachƟngskantoor BV v Bank of China Ltd [2015 EWHC 999 (Comm)] in the following manner: “Performance bonds create an independent obligaƟon to pay on demand by way of primary obligaƟon on the party giving the guarantee and not by way of surety. They are irrevocable undertakings to pay a specified sum to the beneficiary in the event of a breach of contract, rather than a promise to see to it that the contract will be performed. They are also oŌen called “performance guarantees” or “demand guarantees”, although they are not guarantees in the true sense, but rather a strict form of contract of indemnity. Thus the various equitable defences available to a surety are not available to the issuer of a performance bond. (see for example Marubeni Hong Kong and South China Ltd v Mongolia [2005] 2 Lloyd's Rep 231) The issuer of a performance bond is as a general rule not concerned with the rights or wrongs of any underlying dispute between the beneficiary and the account party. His obligaƟon to pay in accordance with the terms of the contract is enƟrely independent of the ulƟmate contract between the account party and the beneficiary. In pracƟce, performance bonds are treated as subsƟtutes for cash.” In Wuhan Guoyu LogisƟcs Group Co Ltd v Emporiki Bank of Greece SA [(2012) EWCA Civ 1629], Longmore LJ stated that: “In deciding whether the document is a tradiƟonal “see to it” guarantee or an “on￾demand” guarantee, it would be obviously absurd to say that there are six pointers in favour of the former and only four pointers in favour of the laƩer and it must therefore be the former. But if the law does not permit boxes to be Ɵcked in this way, 9 commercial men will need some assistance from the courts in determining their obligaƟons. The only assistance which the court can give in pracƟce is to say that, whilst everything must in the end depend on the words actually used by the parƟes, there is nevertheless a presumpƟon that, if certain elements are present in the documents, the document will be construed in one way or the other. In Paget’s Law of Banking [supra; page 990] it has been stated that: “Where an instrument: “(i) relates to an underlying transacƟon between parƟes in different jurisdicƟons; (ii) is issued by a bank or other financial insƟtuƟon; (iii) contains an undertaking to pay ‘on demand’ (with or without the words ‘first’ and/or ‘wriƩen’); and (iv) does not contain clauses excluding or limiƟng the defences available to a surety; it will almost always be construed as a demand guarantee. By contrast, where an instrument is not given by a bank or other financial insƟtuƟon it has been held that there is a strong presumpƟon against it being construed as a demand bond. The key quesƟon in either case is whether on its proper construcƟon the instrument is in substance payable on demand (with or without some supporƟng documentaƟon) rather than on proof of the underlying liability. The presence of principal debtor clauses, clauses excluding or limiƟng the defences available to a guarantor (so-called ‘protecƟve clauses’) or the use of words such as ‘on demand’ are relevant to the proper construcƟon of the instrument, but of limited significance.” [emphasis added] For the sake of completeness I must state that, that does not mean that a beneficiary under an on-demand guarantee can keep the money it receives from the bank with no 10 quesƟons asked by the principal at whose request the bond was issued. While payment in full by the bank to the beneficiary would discharge the bank of its obligaƟon under the bond, the beneficiary is nonetheless required in terms of the underlying contract with the party at whose request the bond was issued to account for its losses. While this would occur only if the laƩer demands that the beneficiary does so and that too aŌer the bank has honoured its obligaƟons, this posiƟon has been summarised by PoƩer LJ in Comdel CommodiƟes Ltd v Siporex Trade SA [(1997) 1 Lloyd’s Rep 424 at 431] as follows: “The substanƟve issue between the parƟes is whether, as Siporex contends, Siporex are enƟtled to keep the full amount paid under the performance bonds regardless of the amount of damage which Siporex suffered as a result of Comdel's breach of the original contracts of sale. The law in this respect has recently been the subject of an illuminaƟng decision of Morison J. in Cargill InternaƟonal SA v Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries CorporaƟon [1996] 2 Lloyd's LR 524 in which the authoriƟes are reviewed, most notably decisions in two Australian cases and dicta of Lord Denning, MR in State Trading CorporaƟon of India Limited -v- E.D. & F. Man (Sugar) Limited, July 17th, 1981, transcript. Those authoriƟes are to the effect that it is implicit in the nature of a performance bond that, in the absence of some clear words to a different effect, when the bond is called, there will at some stage in the future be an "accounƟng" between the parƟes to the contract of sale in the sense that their rights and obligaƟons will finally be determined at some future date. The bond is a guarantee of due performance; it is not to be treated as represenƟng a pre-esƟmate of the amount of damages to which the beneficiary may be enƟtled in respect of the breach of contract giving rise to the right to call for payment under the bond. If the amount of the bond is not enough to saƟsfy the seller's claim for damages, the buyer is liable to the seller for damages in excess of the amount of the bond. On the other hand, if the amount of the bond is more than enough to saƟsfy the seller's claim for damages, the buyer can recover from the seller the amount of the bond which exceeds the seller's damages.” 11 Combined Performance Bond - P4 With the final decision whether a bond or guarantee is condiƟonal or payable on-demand dependent on the wording of each bond/guarantee, I shall now consider if P4 is an on￾demand payable bond or was subject to condiƟons that had to be saƟsfied prior to the Defendant honouring any claim made under it by the PlainƟff. The relevant parts of P4 are re-produced below: “KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that M/s T F N Pinto and Sons (Contractor) and M/s Ceylinco Insurance Company Limited (Surety) are held and firmly bound unto M/s K D A Heƫarachchi, Premasiri Super Market, 243, R A De Mel Mawatha, Colombo 3 (Employer) … in the full and just sum of Rs. One Million Two Hundred and Twenty Three Thousand FiŌy Five and Cents Ninety Two Only for the payment of which sum of money well and truly to be made and done, the said Contractor binds himself, his heirs, executors and administrators AND the Surety binds itself, its successors and assigns, jointly and severally firmly by these presents. We the Surety hereby renouncing the beneficium ordinis divisionis et excussionis the meaning force and effect of renouncing which have been explained to us by our Proctor and with which we hereby declare that we are now fully acquainted and all other benefits, privileges and advantages to which sureƟes as such are by law enƟtled. WHEREAS the Contractor has entered into a certain wriƩen contract with the Employer by CondiƟons of Tender bearing date … for the construcƟon of proposed building at 316, Galle Road, Colombo 3 all of which are more parƟcularly shown in the said wriƩen Tender which Contract with all its covenants and condiƟons is hereby made a part of this Agreement to all intents and purposes as though the said Contract has been incorporated herein. NOW, THEREFORE, the condiƟons of the foregoing obligaƟon is such that: 12 if the Contractor shall well, true and faithfully comply with all the terms, covenants and condiƟons of the said Tender on his part to be kept and performed according to the true purpose intent and meaning of the said tender, or if in default by the Contractor, the Surety shall saƟsfy and discharge the damages sustained by the Employer hereby upto the sum of Rs. One Million Two Hundred and Twenty Three Thousand FiŌy Five and Cents Ninety Two Only, then this obligaƟon shall be null and void, otherwise it shall remain in full and virtue.” [emphasis added] The fact that: (a) the Contractor and the Defendant were jointly and severally held bound unto the PlainƟff under P4; (b) the Defendant has renounced the defence available to it as a surety that the Contractor be excussed prior to it being pursued; (c) P1 formed part and parcel of P4 and that P4 was therefore not an autonomous contract; and (d) the Defendant was only required to saƟsfy and discharge the damages sustained by the PlainƟff up to a maximum sum, clearly demonstrate that, (a) P4 was not a performance bond payable on demand but a condiƟonal bond, and (b) the Defendant therefore was not required to honour any claim without demur. That P4 was a condiƟonal bond is further confirmed by two other factors. The first is that in the event of any alleged default on the part of the Contractor, the PlainƟff was not enƟtled to, as of right, to the full value of P4 but was only enƟtled to claim damages sustained by him upto the sum specified in P4, which can either be the full value or a value lesser than that. This required the PlainƟff to establish that the Contractor had not commenced and/or completed the work aŌer the receipt of the retenƟon money, that he 13 has suffered damages as a result thereof and, more importantly the extent of such damages. The second is the corresponding right of the Defendant to call upon the PlainƟff to establish that he has suffered damages and the extent thereof. Clauses similar to the aforemenƟoned provision in P4 have been considered over the years in several other jurisdicƟons. One of the first such cases is Workington Harbour and Dock Board v. Trade Indemnity Company Limited (No. 2) [(1937) 3 All ER 139]. In the Court of Appeal, Greer L.J., stated at page 143 that, “The plainƟff bringing an acƟon has not merely to prove a breach of contract: he has to prove the damages which he has suffered by reason of that breach of contract.” On appeal, [(1938) 2 All ER 101] Lord Atkin stated at page 105 that, “It is well established that in such an acƟon the plainƟff has to establish damages occasioned by the breach or breaches of the condiƟons, and, if he succeeds, he recovers judgment on the whole amount of the bond, but can only issue execuƟon for the amount of the damages proved.” In Tins’ Industrial Co. Limited v Kono Insurance Limited [1987 BLR 42], the Court of Appeal of Hong Kong referring to the relevant clause under consideraƟon which read as follows: “NOW THE CONDITION of the above wriƩen bond is such that if the contractor shall duly perform and observe all the terms, provisions condiƟons and sƟpulaƟons of the said contract on the contractor’s part to he performed and observed according to the true purport intent and a meaning thereof, or if on default by the contractor the surety shall saƟsfy and discharge the damages sustained by the employer thereby up to the amount to the above wriƩen bond then this obligaƟon should be null and void, but otherwise shall be and remain in full force and effect.”, held that, “This in our view is a case where a claimant under the bond has to prove first breach, and secondly damages.” In Trafalgar House ConstrucƟon (Regions) Limited v General Surety & Guarantee Company Limited [(1996) 1 A.C. 199; at pages 203-204], the impugned clause read as follows: 14 “Now the condiƟon of the above wriƩen bond is such that if the subcontractor shall duly perform and observe all the terms provisions condiƟons and sƟpulaƟons of the said subcontract on the subcontractor's part to be performed and observed according to the true purport intent and meaning thereof or if on default by the subcontractors the surety shall saƟsfy and discharge the damages sustained by the main contractors thereby up to the amount of the above wriƩen bond then this obligaƟon shall be null and void but otherwise shall be and remain in full force and effect….” In the Court of Appeal, Saville, L.J idenƟfied the commercial purpose of the bond as being to provide immediate funds for the respondents in the event of failure of performance by the contractor (i.e. Chambers), and held that the obligaƟon under the bond was to pay what the respondents asserted in good faith to be the amount of damages. Referring to this finding, the House of Lords observed that the Court of Appeal were in error: (a) ‘by determining that the appellants' liability under the bond arose on the failure of Chambers to complete the contract followed by a demand in good faith for the amount of the damages which they claim to have suffered were effecƟvely treaƟng it as a type of on demand bond.’ and (b) ‘in concluding that the bond was not a guarantee but was akin to an on demand bond.’ The House of Lords thereaŌer referred to the above passage of Lord Atkin and concluded that, “This dictum makes it clear beyond doubt that proof of damage and not mere asserƟon thereof is required before liability under such a bond arises.” [emphasis added] Thus, while in a condiƟonal bond such as P4, the beneficiary must establish the extent of the damages suffered by it, I must for the sake of clarity reiterate that even though a bank is required to honour an on- demand payable performance bond, that does not absolve the beneficiary who called upon the bond of subsequently accounƟng its actual loss to the party on whose behalf the bond was issued. 15 This brings me to the quesƟon of whether the PlainƟff has saƟsfied the legal obligaƟon cast on him of establishing the damages suffered by him as a result of the breach of the Contractor. AcƟon in the District Court On 27th March 1996, the PlainƟff filed acƟon in the District Court of Colombo against the Defendant claiming a sum of Rs. 1,222,055, which for some unexplained reason is one rupee less than in P4. The case of the PlainƟff was that P4 was issued to secure payment of the aforesaid sum of money that the PlainƟff had retained as retenƟon money under P1 and that as the Contractor had failed to complete the works as agreed, the PlainƟff had suffered a loss amounƟng to Rs. 1,222,055 which the Defendant was liable to pay in terms of P4. The Defendant filed its answer denying any liability under P4 and took up the posiƟon that the PlainƟff has not suffered any loss or damage and that in any event, the PlainƟff has not complied with the condiƟons sƟpulated in P4 that required the PlainƟff to make a demand within one month of the default and for acƟon to be filed within one month thereaŌer. Of the 11 issues raised by the PlainƟff, Issue No. 7 has a direct nexus to the quesƟon of law raised by the PlainƟff before this Court and is therefore re-produced below: “Has the PlainƟff suffered loss and damage to the extent of Rs. 1,222,055,92 in consequence of the default of the contractor?”. Although it was sought to be argued before the High Court that mere default on the part of the Contractor would enƟtle the PlainƟff to claim a sum of Rs. 1,222,055 from the Defendant under and in terms of P4, the above issue makes it clear that the PlainƟff was very much aware that he was required to establish that he has suffered loss and damage to the extent of the value in P4. The PlainƟff gave evidence and led the evidence of T.P. Weerasinghe, the Managing Director of the Consultant. However, none of the witnesses gave any evidence of the loss or damage suffered by the PlainƟff as a result of the default of the Contractor. The Defendant did not lead any evidence. 16 By its judgment delivered on 20th March 2003, the District Court took the following view: “me 4 f,i i,l=Kq fldg meusKs,slre idlaIs fouska §ixhqla; bgq lsrSfu ne|quslrh¶ (Combined Performance Bond) bosrsm;a lr we;. tls ne|quslrfha fldkafoais lshjd ne,sfus os gs't*a'tka' mskafgda iy mq;%fhda fldka;d%;alre jYfhka fld<U 03" .d,q mdfra wxl 316 orK fhdaPs; f.dvke.s,a, iEoSfuS os meusKs,slrejkag isoq lrk hus lsis mdvqjla fyda meyer yerSula iusnkaOfhka osk 14 l ld,hla ;=, oekqus oqka jsg js;a;slre wem lre f,ig re' 1"223"055'92 l uqo,la meusKs,slreg f.jsug wem js we;' js;a;slre jsiska tls wemlrh ms<sf.k we;'” Thus, the District Court, similar to the English Court of Appeal in Trafalgar House ConstrucƟon (Regions) Limited v General Surety & Guarantee Company Limited [supra] fell into error when it took the view that P4 was an on-demand bond payable within 14 days of the demand. For that reason, the District Court did not consider the necessity on the part of the PlainƟff to establish the loss or damage suffered as a result of the default of the Contractor. Having arrived at the said erroneous view, the District Court conƟnued to err when, not having realised that the Contractor had been given an extension of Ɵme unƟl 15th October 1995 to complete the work, and the purpose for which P4 had been issued, it answered inter alia Issue No. 7 as follows: “fldka;%d;alre jsiska udi 18 l ld,hla ;=, os fuu .sjsiqug wod,j fhdaPs; f.dvke.s,a, iusmqraK lsrSug wfmdfydi;a jq njg os we;s idlaIsh js;a;slre jsiska nso fy<d fkdue;' r|jd .ekSfus uqo, o fldka;%;alreg f.jq njg fuu wOslrKhg ikd:j we;s fyhska jev ksu lsrsulska f;drj r|jd .eksfus uqo, fldka;%;alre yg f.jsug isoq jsu u.ska mEusKs,slre yg re' 1"223"055'92 l w,dNhla iy mdvqjla isoq jq njg fuu wOslrKhg ikd:j we;s fyhska 7 jk jsiosh hq; = m%YaKhg §Tjs¶ hkqfjka wOslrKh ms<s;=re fokq ,nhs'” The above formed the basis for the District Court to grant the PlainƟff the relief claimed by him. 17 Judgment of the High Court Aggrieved, the Defendant filed an appeal with the High Court. By its judgment, the High Court, relying on the aforemenƟoned provision in P4 that the PlainƟff shall establish the damages sustained by him, concluded that the PlainƟff has failed to establish that he has suffered damages as a result of the failure on the part of the Contractor to complete the building and accordingly allowed the appeal of the Defendant. The relevant passages in this regard from the judgment of the High Court are re-produced below: “fus wkqj" fuu neoquslrh hgf;a ysuslus meug kus fldka;%;alre tu .sjsiqu wkqj lghq;= lsrsug wfmdfydi;a js ;snsh hq;= w;r tu fya; =j u; meusKs,slreg w,dN isoqjS ;snsh hq;=h' tkus meusKs,slreg wh lr .; yels jkafka tlS neoquslrfha isudjg hg;aj isoq js we;s w,dNh muKs' tu ksid fuu neoquslrh hgf;a uqo,la wh lr .eksug kus ;udg isoq jS we;s w,dNh meusKs,slre Tmamq l< hq;=h' fuu ldrKd folu tlaj i,ld ne,Sfus oS meusKs,slreg isoq jq w,dNfha m%udKh ;yjqre js fkdue;s w;r" tfukau tu w,dNh isoq jqfha fldka;%;alre ksis mrsos ish fgkavrh wkqj lghq; = fkdlsrsu ksis njg ;yjqre js ke;' fuu ;;a;ajh u; meusKs,slreg fuu neoquslrfha i|yka uqo,a wh lr .ekSfus yelshdjla ke;'” QuesƟons of Law raised by the PlainƟff DissaƟsfied by the said judgment of the High Court, the PlainƟff sought and obtained leave on the following quesƟon of law: “Did the learned High Court Judges err in law in holding that the PlainƟff has failed to prove damages?” For the reasons that I have already adverted to in this judgment, I am in agreement with the High Court that in terms of P4, the PlainƟff was required to establish that he has suffered damages as a result of the Contractor not commencing and/or compleƟng the work aŌer the receipt of the retenƟon money. I shall now consider if the PlainƟff has discharged the evidenƟary burden in that regard and whether the PlainƟff has established the quantum of the damages suffered by him. 18 Has the PlainƟff established the damages suffered by him – pre-trial correspondence I have already stated that the retenƟon money belonged to the Contractor for work done by him and that, as evidenced by P2 and P3, the PlainƟff released the said sum of Rs. 1,223,055.92 to the Contractor upon the recommendaƟon of the Consultant on 2nd and 22nd March, 1995. It was the posiƟon of the PlainƟff that the Contractor failed to commence work even aŌer the payment of the said retenƟon money, and that the Contractor sought extensions of Ɵme to commence and complete the work. The PlainƟff stated further that the final extension of Ɵme was granted upto 15th October 1995, as borne out by P7, and that he lodged a claim with the Defendant by P6 on 26th October 1995. The Defendant did not dispute that the Contractor has abandoned the site or that the Contractor has not completed the work. However, the Defendant taking the view that P4 was not an on-demand payable bond responded to P6 by its leƩer dated 30th October 1996 [P8] as follows: “In accordance with the policy issued may we kindly request you to immediately carry out joint measurements in the presence of the Consultant – Design Team Three (Pvt) Limited and Contractor T.F.N. Pinto and Sons to finalise the loss assessment. We also wish to inform you that we have appointed an independent loss adjuster by the name of Mr. Nihal Bogahalanda who will contact you immediately and be present at the Ɵme the joint measurements are taken. Please note that we need this done immediately in the presence of all parƟes as we have to finalise the claim accordingly. Your immediate aƩenƟon is very much appreciated.” P8, which was copied to the Consultant and the Contractor, is a clear statement by the Defendant to the PlainƟff that it is mandatory that joint measurements must be carried out. The PlainƟff did not dispute P8 nor did he claim that such a process was not required for the Defendant to process and finalise his claim. With the Contractor admiƩedly not having completed the work and the quesƟon of waiƟng unƟl the end of the defects liability 19 period to release the retenƟon money not being in issue as the monies had already been released, the necessity for the joint measurement to be carried out was obvious. It was the only way the Defendant could find out, (a) the value of the work carried out by the Contractor in order to determine if the Contractor has been overpaid, (b) if there were any defects in the work that had already been carried out by the Contractor and if so the cost of recƟfying such defects, and thereby determine the extent of the damage suffered by the PlainƟff. By leƩer dated 8th December 1995 addressed to the Contractor with copy to the PlainƟff and the Consultant [P9], the loss adjuster requested the Contractor to submit his claim for work done as from the date of terminaƟon. It appears that the Contractor responded to P9, for, by leƩer dated 18th December 1995 [P10], the loss adjuster informed the Consultant, with copy to the PlainƟff, as follows: “I refer to M/s T F Pinto and Sons leƩer of 7.12.95 enclosing their final claim on the project for a proposed building for Mr. K.D.A. Heƫarachchi at No. 316, Galle Road, Colombo 3. Please be good enough to check and cerƟfy this claim including the unrecovered porƟon of the advance so that I could send my report to M/s Ceylinco Insurance Limited. It would be appreciated if any disputes regarding reducƟons in this claim are seƩled with the Contractor aŌer discussions so that the final amounts cerƟfied are not disputed. Any disputes that are not mutually agreed to may further delay any seƩlement.” Thus, it appears from P10 that the Contractor had a monetary claim against the PlainƟff for the work carried out by him, and that the mobilisaƟon advance paid by the PlainƟff has not been fully recovered. However, neither party has produced the claim preferred by the Contractor which is referred to in P10. Furthermore, even though the Defendant had called upon all three parƟes involved in P1 to carry out a joint measurement in order to value the work carried out by the Contractor, it does not appear that this request had 20 been complied with. This was a grave mistake on the part of the PlainƟff and was the reason for the PlainƟff to fail in proving his case. By leƩer dated 10th January 1996 [P5], the Consultant informed the loss adjuster as follows: “As per the CondiƟons of Contract, the retenƟon money is to be released at the expiraƟon of the maintenance of a project and if the contract was terminated, it is to be kept unƟl the costs of execuƟon and maintenance and all other expenses incurred by the employer are ascertained. (refer Clause 63(3) of the ICTAD CondiƟons of Contract). Therefore, we wish to state that this amount of Rs. 1,223,005.92 should be released to the Employer, K.D.A. Heƫarachchi to cover the addiƟonal costs which (he) will incur in compleƟon of the balance work and other expenses.” [emphasis added] Thus, in terms of Clause 63(3) referred to in P5, the PlainƟff was enƟtled to hold on to the retenƟon money unƟl the ‘costs of execuƟon and maintenance and all other expenses incurred by the employer are ascertained’. I have already stated that it is normal for a contractor to submit a guarantee/bond to secure the said obligaƟon and have the retenƟon money released to him. However, once a claim is made by an employer and in this case by the PlainƟff under P4, the obligaƟon on the part of the Defendant to release sums promised under P4 would arise only once the ‘costs of execuƟon and maintenance and all other expenses incurred by the employer are ascertained’. Without ascertaining such sums, I am of the view that the Defendant was not obliged in terms of P4 to pay the PlainƟff. By P5, the Consultant has given a breakdown of the payments made to the Contractor. The first payment is the mobilizaƟon advance of Rs. 4,892,000 paid on 3rd November 1993. Ten other interim payments totalling Rs. 10,850,453.48 have been paid between 23rd December 1993 – 9th February 1995. In addiƟon to the payment of the retenƟon money of Rs. 1,223,055.92 in March 1995, the PlainƟff has paid a further sum of Rs. 1,306,171.72 on 10th April 1995. The aggregate of all payments is Rs. 16,965,519.40. 21 Neither the PlainƟff nor the Consultant seem to have addressed the claim of the Contractor referred to in P10. Instead, by leƩer dated 6th February 1996 [P12], the PlainƟff informed the Defendant as follows: “Further to my leƩer dated 26th October 1995 and the subsequent correspondence I wish to reiterate that in terms of the above Bond, you are liable to pay me a sum of Rs. One Million Two Hundred and Twenty Two Thousand and FiŌy Five and cents ninety two as the Contractor M/s T.F.N. Pinto and Sons has failed to perform or comply with the terms of the Contract.” While it was clear that the Contractor was in breach of its obligaƟon to complete the building as required by P1, the correspondence exchanged between the parƟes clearly indicate that even at the Ɵme acƟon was insƟtuted in the District Court, the PlainƟff had failed to inform the Defendant of the exact quantum of damages suffered by it as a result of the breach of the Contractor. Has the PlainƟff established the damages suffered by him – evidence at the trial Having failed to address the requirement of the Defendant that a joint measurement be carried out in order to determine the value of the work done and thereby quanƟfy the damages suffered by the PlainƟff, the PlainƟff filed acƟon on 27th March 1996 seeking the recovery of the enƟre sum covered by P4. However, it is clear from Issue No. 7 that the PlainƟff was fully conscious of his obligaƟon to establish the damages suffered by him. Even though the PlainƟff led the evidence of Mr. T.P. Weerasinghe, the Chairman of the Consultant, he did not provide details of the work carried out and/or completed by the Contractor or the value of the work done by the Contractor. These details should have been available with the Consultant for the reason that eleven interim payments had been made, which in terms of the standard CondiƟons of Contract could only have been made aŌer measurements were carried out. The failure to provide such details becomes even more criƟcal in view of the following two factors. 22 The first is the evidence of Mr. Weerasinghe as to the amount of work that has been completed by the Contractor. The following quesƟon posed to Mr. Weerasinghe during his evidence-in-chief, and his answer thereto are re-produced below: “m%( mskafgda uy;d fus jev wjika l,do@ W( iusmqraKfhka lf,aq keye' 75% la muk lr ;snshoS k;r l,d'” Thus, where the contract sum is Rs. 24.5m, 75% of the work would represent a sum of Rs. 18.1m. As borne out by P5, if the Contractor had only been paid Rs. 16.9m, that leaves approximately a sum of Rs. 1.2m in the hands of the PlainƟff. In cross examinaƟon, Mr. Weerasinghe stated further as follows: “m%( jev lghq;+ yrshg lr,d bjr jqK ke;akus wjika lr ke;akus tu r|jd .eksfus uqo, uqod.ekSug wkqu; lrkafka keye' fkao@ W( Tjs' fus jev iusmqraK lr ;snqfka keye' k;r lr ;snqfka' fygsgswdrpsps uy;a;hdf.a jev ;snqKd' ;j;a jev iqµ fldgila lrkak ;snqKd' m%( ;ud lshkafka fuys i|yka fjkjd fus fldka;%;alref.a b;srs jev gsl bjr lrk l,a Th uqo,a fokafka keye lsh,d lshd ;sfhkjd@ m%( fus wevsjdkaia iusmqraKfhka whlr f.k ;snqKq wjia:dfjs os iy r|jd .ekSfus uqo,a whlr .ekSfus wjia:dfjs os iusmqraK fuu fldka;%;a tfla hgf;a jqjo" me'2 ys b;srs jev ms,sn|j i|yka lsrsula lr ke;s nejska fus fldka; %d;a tfla jevs fldgila wjika lr ;snqKd fkao@ W( Tjs'” Thus, the Consultant was not able to tell Court the exact amount of work that had been carried out by the Contractor, the value of such work and/or the exact quantum of damages suffered by the PlainƟff. The second is the evidence of Mr. Weerasinghe that the mobilizaƟon advance was deducted at the rate of 20% from each interim payment and that the PlainƟff had recovered the enƟrety of the mobilisaƟon fee. The evidence of Mr. Weerasinghe is re￾produced below: 23 m%( Tn lshd isgskafka iy;sl lrk ,o f.jsusj,ska fldgila iqodkus lsrSfus w;a;sldrus jYfhka wvqlr .kakd njhs' W( Tjs' m%( iEu uqo,lskau wvqlr .kakjdo@ W( iQodkus lsrSfus w;a;sldrus uqo,ska 20% la iy r|jd .ekSfus uqo,ska 10% la jYfhka wvqlrkjd' iusmqraK uqo, 30% la wvqlr .kakjd' m%( ta lshkafka r|jd .eksfus uqo,a i|yd 10% la iy iqodkus lsrSfus uqo, jYfhka 20% la jYfhka wvqlr .kakjd@ W( Tjs' m%( ta lshkafka iusmqraKfhka tls w;a;sldrus uqo, whlr .;a;d@ W( Tjs m%( iqodkus lsrSfus w;a;sldrus uqo,a j,ska fldmuK uqo,la whlr .;a;do@ W( iusmqraK uqo,a whlr f.k ;sfhkjd'” Thus, according to the Consultant, the mobilizaƟon advance has been recovered in full. Under normal circumstances, the fact that the mobilizaƟon fee has been recovered in full means that the Contractor has completed the enƟrety of the work. Since the work had not been completed, it was criƟcal for the PlainƟff to have established the value of the work completed by the Contractor in order to determine, (a) if the Contractor has been overpaid, and/or (b) the cost of compleƟng the balance work and/or (c) the cost of recƟfying any defects in the work already done. I am therefore saƟsfied that the PlainƟff has not discharged the evidenƟary burden cast on him to establish the damages suffered by him. The conclusion of the High Court is therefore correct and I would accordingly answer the quesƟon of law raised by the PlainƟff in the negaƟve. 24 Second quesƟon of law In its answer, the Defendant took up the posiƟon that the PlainƟff has not complied with the condiƟons sƟpulated in P4 that required the PlainƟff to make a demand within one month of the default and for acƟon to be filed within one month thereaŌer. The High Court had rejected this contenƟon of the Defendant. The Defendant therefore raised the following quesƟon of law before this Court - “Has the PlainƟff complied with his obligaƟon under the performance bond marked P4 in giving 14 days wriƩen noƟce of the alleged non-performance or non-compliance on the part of the contractor that have risen to the claim for damages?” In view of the conclusion reached by me that the PlainƟff has failed to establish its damages, the necessity for me to consider the second quesƟon of law does not arise. Conclusion In the above circumstances, I affirm the judgment of the High Court. The appeal of the PlainƟff is therefore dismissed, without costs. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT S. Thurairaja, PC, J I agree. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT Mahinda Samayawardhena, J I agree. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT