IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA In the maƩer of an ApplicaƟon under and in terms of ArƟcle 126 of the ConsƟtuƟon of the DemocraƟc Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. SC (FR) ApplicaƟon No: 123/2009 1. H.T.A. Ariyaratne 2. H.R.D.G. Mendis Both of: No. 53, Horape Temple Road, Ragama. PETITIONERS Vs. 1. Jayantha Wickremarathne, Former Inspector General of Police, 1A. N.K. Illangakoon, Former Inspector General of Police, 1B. C.D. Wickremaratne, Inspector General of Police. 2. A.L. Keerthi Kumara AtapaƩu, ReƟred Senior Superintendent of Police of the Crime Division of the Western Province. 1 st, 1A, 1B and 2nd Respondents at Police Headquarters, Colombo 1. 3. Neville Piyadigama 3A. Senaka Walgampaya 3B. P.H. Manatunge 2 3C. K.W.E. Karaliedda 3D. S.C.S. Fernando 3E. E.W.M. Lalith Ekanayake 3 rd – 3E Respondents were/is Chairman, NaƟonal Police Commission 4. Nihal Jayamanne 4A. Elle Gunawansa Thero 4B. Savitri Wijesekera 4C. S. Liyanagama 4D. D.K. Renuka Ekanayake 5. R. Sivaraman 5A. D. Dissanayake 5B. Y.L.M. Zwaheer 5C. A.S.P.S.P. Sanjeewa 5D. K. Karunaharan 6. Elle Gunawansa Thero 6A. Charmaine Madurasinghe 6B. Anton Jeyanthan 6C. Gamini Navarathne 6D. N.S.M. Samsudeen 3 6E. P.G.S. Gamini De Silva 7. M.M.M. Mowjood 7A. R. Sivaraman 7B. Frank De Silva 7C. Asoka Wijethilake 7D. M.P.P. Perera 7E. D. Kapila Jayasuriya 8. Chandradasa Nanayakkara 8A. M.M.M. Mowjood 8B. Thilak Collure 8C. G.Wickramage 9. Charmaine Madurasinghe 9A. Newton Gunaratne 9B. G. Jeyakumar 9C. T.P.Parameswaran 4 th to 9C Respondents are/were members of the NaƟonal Police Commission, Block No. 9, BMICH Premises, Colombo 7. 10. Somasiri Liyanage, Former Office-in-Charge of the Negombo Police StaƟon 11. Nimal Rathnayake, 4 Former Officer-In-Charge, Police StaƟon, Ragama. 12. Maharaigam Mudalige Dias Peiris, Former Officer-In-charge (AdministraƟon), Police StaƟon, Negombo 13. Imihamillage Senarath Bandaranayake, Former Police Sergeant (No. 31267), Police StaƟon, Negombo. 11th to 13th Respondents at, Police Headquarters, Colombo 01. 14. Hon. AƩorney General, AƩorney General’s Department, Colombo 12. RESPONDENTS Before: S. Thurairaja, PC, J Arjuna Obeyesekere, J Sobhitha Rajakaruna, J Counsel: Shyamal Collure with Prabath S. Amerasinghe for the PeƟƟoners Madhawa Tennekoon, Senior Deputy Solicitor General for the 1st, 11th and 14th Respondents B. N. Thamboo with K. Jackson for the 12th and 13th Respondents Argued on: 5 th February 2025 WriƩen Tendered by the PeƟƟoners on 3rd May 2021 and 19th February 2025 Submissions: Tendered by the 1st, 11th and 14th Respondents on 4th May 2021 Tendered by the 12th and 13th Respondents on 18th February 2025 Decided on: 21st March 2025 5 Obeyesekere, J The PeƟƟoners filed this applicaƟon on 26th February 2009 complaining that their fundamental rights guaranteed under ArƟcles 11, 12(1) and 14(1)(g) of the ConsƟtuƟon have been violated by the Respondents. Leave to proceed for the alleged infringement of the said ArƟcles by the Respondents was granted on 5th March 2009. Facts in brief The 1st PeƟƟoner is an AƩorney-at-Law primarily engaged as a pracƟƟoner in the High Courts of Colombo, Negombo and Gampaha and the Magistrate’s Court of Negombo. The 2 nd PeƟƟoner is also an AƩorney-at-Law and is the wife of the 1st PeƟƟoner. The 1st PeƟƟoner states that since 2004, he has represented liƟgants who have been subjected to unlawful arrest and torture by the Police. He states that his professional services have been retained by many civil society and non-governmental organisaƟons including an organisaƟon by the name of ‘Right to Life Human Rights Centre’ at Katunayake [the Centre]. The 1st PeƟƟoner has stated further that he has served as the Legal Consultant of the Centre from 2007 and had conƟnued to represent a large of number of underprivileged persons who had been subjected to physical abuse and harassment by the Police. The 1st PeƟƟoner states that one such person he represented was Anton Sugath Nishantha Fernando who it is alleged had been brutally assaulted by officers aƩached to the Negombo Police, and in respect of which assault Fundamental Rights ApplicaƟon No. 446/2007 had been insƟtuted. The said Nishantha Fernando had been killed on 20th September 2008 by unidenƟfied gunmen. The PeƟƟoners state that while no arrests have been made in that regard, the Centre had received a message on 24th September 2008 threatening the 1st PeƟƟoner with death if he conƟnued to look aŌer the interests of the said Nishantha Fernando. The PeƟƟoners have stated further that the Centre had formally lodged a complaint with the Headquarters Inspector of the Negombo Police in that regard on 26th September 2008 [P4a]. The said complaint does not form part of the subject maƩer of this applicaƟon. 6 On 27th January 2009, the 1st PeƟƟoner had visited the Negombo Police StaƟon to obtain a copy of a complaint that had been made by the wife of Nishantha Fernando over the loss of her idenƟty card. There had been an exchange of words between the 1st PeƟƟoner and the Officer of the Civil Defence Force who was on duty at the entrance to the Police StaƟon with regard to the place where the PeƟƟoner could park his vehicle. The 1st PeƟƟoner states that he thereaŌer met the 12th Respondent, who was the Officer-in￾Charge of AdministraƟon who had directed another officer to provide the 1st PeƟƟoner with a copy of such complaint. Thus, at this point of Ɵme, there is no complaint by the 1st PeƟƟoner that the Respondents interfered with and/or obstructed him in aƩending to his professional duƟes as an AƩorney-at-Law. As the 1st PeƟƟoner had been requested to stay half an hour to collect the statement, the 1 st PeƟƟoner states that he leŌ the building with a view of coming back later to collect the said statement. The 1st PeƟƟoner states that on his way out, he was accosted by the 13th Respondent, who, having blocked his pathway, threatened the PeƟƟoner with death and dealt a severe blow on the leŌ shoulder of the 1st PeƟƟoner. While this version of the 1st PeƟƟoner has been denied by the 13th Respondent, the 1st PeƟƟoner does not state what may have triggered this sudden erupƟon on the part of the 13th Respondent nor does the 1 st PeƟƟoner claim that the 13th Respondent bore any grudge towards him as a result of the 1st PeƟƟoner having appeared against officers aƩached to the Negombo Police StaƟon. This is the first incident that the 1st PeƟƟoner has complained of to this Court, with the 1st PeƟƟoner claiming that the 13th Respondent violated his fundamental rights guaranteed by ArƟcle 11. The 1st PeƟƟoner states that he immediately visited the office of the 12th Respondent and informed him of such assault and demanded that acƟon be taken by the 12th Respondent. While he was talking to the 12th Respondent, the 1st PeƟƟoner states that the 13th Respondent entered the office of the 12th Respondent and hit him twice on his leŌ wrist. In spite of having seen such incident, the 1st PeƟƟoner claims that the 12th Respondent ignored the above incident and refused to take any acƟon relaƟng to the first incident. This is the second incident that has been complained of by the 1st PeƟƟoner to this Court. The 1st PeƟƟoner claims that the said acƟon of the 13th Respondent is a violaƟon of his fundamental rights guaranteed by ArƟcle 11 and that the failure of the 12th Respondent 7 to take acƟon against the 13th Respondent is a violaƟon of his fundamental rights guaranteed by ArƟcle 12(1). The 1st PeƟƟoner had lodged a wriƩen complaint in respect of the above two incidents with the 1st Respondent, the Inspector General of Police on the very next date [P8] where the 1st PeƟƟoner had reiterated the enƟre incident. While a formal inquiry had been held by the 2nd Respondent into such complaint, it is the posiƟon of the 2nd Respondent that in spite of several messages having been sent to the 1st PeƟƟoner to be present for an inquiry, the 1st PeƟƟoner did not respond resulƟng in the inquiry not being proceeded with. The third and final incident that has been complained of to this Court took place on 30th January 2009. The PeƟƟoners state that they were at their office situated next to their residence at Ragama Ɵll about 10.30pm that night and had just returned to their residence when they observed that their office was on fire. The PeƟƟoners state further that all efforts taken by them and their neighbours to douse the fire had been unsuccessful and that the enƟre office building together with all valuables were completely destroyed by the fire. The PeƟƟoners have not produced any independent evidence as to who the perpetrators of the said incident may have been nor do they make any specific allegaƟon against any person/s. The PeƟƟoners however claim that they verily believe that the fire was a meƟculously planned and well-coordinated aƩack and was the culminaƟon of a series of incidents to prevent the 1st PeƟƟoner from engaging in his professional duƟes. The PeƟƟoners state that a complaint with regard to the fire was lodged at 11.50pm that night at the Ragama Police StaƟon and that the 1st PeƟƟoner visited the said Police StaƟon at around noon the next date. The PeƟƟoners state that while Officers from the Ragama Police StaƟon visited the scene of the incident on 31st January 2009 and 1st February 2009, a formal visit by officers aƩached to the Peliyagoda Police StaƟon was done only on 2nd February 2009. The PeƟƟoners state that no further acƟon has been taken by the Police Department thereaŌer. The inacƟon on the part of the Police in invesƟgaƟng the said complaint and the impact that such failure had on the right of the PeƟƟoners to engage in their professional duƟes as AƩorneys-at-Law is the third complaint by the PeƟƟoners to this Court. This complaint involves a violaƟon of the fundamental rights of the PeƟƟoners guaranteed by ArƟcles 12(1) and 14(1)(g). 8 ArƟcle 11 and 12(1) – the first and second incidents I shall commence by considering the aforemenƟoned first and second incidents together as both incidents formed part of one transacƟon. As pointed out by Atukorale, J in Amal Sudath Silva v Kodituwakku, Inspector of Police and Others [(1987) 2 Sri LR 119; at page 126], “ArƟcle 11 of our ConsƟtuƟon mandates that no person shall be subjected to torture, or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. It prohibits every person from inflicƟng torturesome, cruel or inhuman treatment on another. It is an absolute fundamental right subject to no restricƟons or limitaƟons whatsoever.” [emphasis added] In Mrs. W M K De Silva v Chairman, Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation [(1989) 2 Sri LR 393], Amerasinghe, J stated [at page 405] that: “In my view ArƟcle 11 of the ConsƟtuƟon prohibits any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental is, without lawful sancƟon in accordance with a procedure established by law, intenƟonally inflicted on a person (whom I shall refer to as 'the vicƟm’) by a public official acƟng in the discharge of his execuƟve or administraƟve duƟes or under colour of office, for such purposes as obtaining from the vicƟm or a third person a confession or informaƟon, such informaƟon being actually or supposedly required for official purposes, imposing a penalty upon the vicƟm for an offence or breach or a rule he or a third person has commiƩed or is suspected of having commiƩed, or inƟmidaƟng or coercing the vicƟm or a third person to do or refrain from doing something which the official concerned believes the vicƟm or the third person ought to do or refrain from doing, as the case may be.” [emphasis added] In Hettiarachchige Gemunu Tissa v Jayaratne, Sub Inspector of Police and others [SC (FR) Application No. 417/2016; SC minutes of 28th May 2024] , it was stated that, “Every human being is entitled to live in dignity and not be subject to any torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. It is the duty of this Court, as the guardian of the fundamental rights of our People, to foster and protect these rights. Whenever a complaint alleging the infringement of Article 11 is made to this Court, our duty is to 9 examine carefully the facts relating to such complaint, the corroborative evidence, if any, tendered by the petitioner in support of such complaint, the version of the respondent/s and arrive at a considered decision.” It was pointed out by Amerasinghe, J in Channa Pieris and others v Attorney General and others (Ratawesi Peramuna Case) [(1994) 1 Sri LR 1; at page 105] that in considering any allegation of a violation of Article 11, “… the acts or conduct complained of must be qualitatively of a kind that the Court can take cognizance of.” It was observed [at page 106] that where physical harm is concerned, a long line of cases had adopted the criteria set out in Mrs. W M K De Silva v Chairman, Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation [supra; at page 401], that for there to be an Article 11 infringement, the degree of mental or physical coerciveness or viciousness must be such as to occasion not mere ill-treatment, but maltreatment of a very high degree. Bearing the above in mind, I shall now re-visit the factual maƩers as pleaded by the parƟes. The fact that, (a) the 1st PeƟƟoner visited the Negombo Police StaƟon on 27th January 2009, (b) the 1st PeƟƟoner got into an argument with the officer of the Civil Defence Force on duty at the entrance to the Police StaƟon over the locaƟon where he could park his vehicle, and (c) there was an argument between the 1st PeƟƟoner and the 13th Respondent inside the Police StaƟon in respect of the said incident are borne out by the notes maintained by PC 33287 Dharshana [12R2], the 12th Respondent [12R6] and the 13th Respondent [12R7]. I have very carefully examined the said notes in the light of the narraƟon of the 1 st PeƟƟoner and observe the following maƩers: (a) As admiƩed by the 1st PeƟƟoner, an incident occurred prior to the 1st PeƟƟoner entering the Police StaƟon. The said incident was however resolved, at least for the Ɵme being, by the 1st PeƟƟoner parking his vehicle at a different locaƟon; (b) The 1st PeƟƟoner’s request for a copy of the statement made by the wife of Nishantha Fernando had been allowed and the 1st PeƟƟoner was asked to stay half an hour to collect the said statement; 10 (c) The Respondents have not obstructed the 1st PeƟƟoner in carrying out and/or discharging his professional duƟes as an AƩorney-at-Law; (d) Having come out of the Police StaƟon, the 1st PeƟƟoner had again got entangled over the parking issue with the Officer on duty at the entrance at which point the 13th Respondent had come to the defence of the said Officer; (e) The 1st PeƟƟoner got into an argument with the 13th Respondent in the mistaken belief that the 13th Respondent was a respondent in the fundamental rights applicaƟon filed by Nishantha Fernando; (f) The 13th Respondent is alleging that the 1st PeƟƟoner was under the influence of alcohol and had threatened the officers present that he will ensure that disciplinary acƟon is taken against the 13th Respondent and other officers. The Respondents have of course denied that they assaulted the 1st PeƟƟoner. In Hondamuni Chandima and another v Inspector Malaweera, Police StaƟon, Ambalangoda and others [SC (FR) ApplicaƟon No. 242/2010; SC minutes of 30th April 2021] Aluwihare, PC, J stated as follows: “ArƟcle 12 (1) sƟpulates that everyone is equal before the law and is enƟtled to the equal protecƟon of the law. It needs no reiteraƟon that the primary responsibility of upholding these fundamental protecƟons lies with the State. As reminded over and over again by this Court, police officers, being state officers tasked with law enforcement and the maintenance of law and order have an utmost responsibility in respecƟng, safeguarding and advancing these rights. Police officers are expected to extend common courtesies at all Ɵmes when dealing with the public. The idenƟty or the status of the person whom the police is dealing with should have no bearing whatsoever on the fair and courteous treatment that they are enƟtled to, as of right. Police officers are bound to treat every person with dignity and respect.” [emphasis added] 11 The fricƟon between Police Officers and AƩorneys-at-Law who visit Police StaƟons to aƩend to their professional duƟes has been the subject maƩer of much liƟgaƟon over the years. In the above case, Aluwihare, PC, J went on to refer in the following manner to an amicable resoluƟon reached before this Court of such issues: “In D. W. C. Mohoƫ v. Upul Seneviratne, OIC, BambalapiƟya and Others, (SC FR 527/08 SC minutes 27. 04. 2009) which involved an incident where an AƩorney-at￾Law was obstructed by a police officer in represenƟng his client at the police staƟon, a seƩlement was reached between the parƟes. The terms of the seƩlement were to the effect that the IGP would issue formal rules under SecƟon 55 of the Police Ordinance delineaƟng the manner in which the police should interact with persons at police staƟons, police headquarters and/or any other permanent unit, base, post or such like that have been established by the Sri Lanka Police. By Rule No. 3 it was stated that “No officer of the Police Force shall in any manner or circumstances whatsoever, use, physical force, abusive language or resort to any other intermediary conduct in respect of any person.” Regarding the treatment of AƩorneys-at-Law who may enter such place for the purpose of represenƟng and/or watching the interests of their clients who are suspects or otherwise, it was stated by Rule No. 1 that their right to represent their clients should be fully recognized. Rule No. 2 required that every officer of the Police Force shall at all Ɵmes, treat such AƩorney-at-Law within the above-menƟoned places “cordially, and courteously, and shall afford to such AƩorney-at-Law all reasonable assistance during the course thereof.” Any officer who acts in violaƟon of those rules, or aids and abets the violaƟon of those rules is to be dealt with severely, according to the available procedures and may be liable to any other disciplinary inquiry/proceedings and puniƟve sancƟons. Although the present case was anterior to the publicaƟon of the ‘Police (Appearance of AƩorneys-at-Law at Police StaƟons) Rules, 2012’ in GazeƩe Extraordinary No. 1758/36 of 18. 05. 2012 which provided guidelines to the Police regarding interacƟng with AƩorneys-at-Law within the precincts of police staƟons, the rules agreed upon in the Mohoƫ case (supra) would be applicable to the present case. In my view the Rules referred to have only restated the Fundamental Rights enshrined in the ConsƟtuƟon and referred to them expansively with the objecƟve of enlightening the 12 police officers of the need to respect Fundamental Rights. The effect of the said rules is that every person who enters a police staƟon or similar premises should be treated with dignity and politeness by the police. AƩorneys-at-Law who represent the interests of their clients and act in the exercise of their professional duƟes too are enƟtled to courteous and proacƟve treatment. Needless to say, even in the absence of any binding rules, these are basic human decencies any public servant owes a fellow ciƟzen, in their interacƟons. … Police officers are required to take extra care in the discharge of their duƟes in view of the fact that they are endowed with coercive powers to perform their funcƟons.” [emphasis added] A similar incident occurred in Ratnayaka Weerakoonge Sandya Kumari v Lakshitha Weerasinghe and others [SC (FR) ApplicaƟon No. 75/2012; SC Minutes of 18th December 2019]. The peƟƟoner, a lady AƩorney-at-Law complained that she was abused and harassed inside the Meegahatenna Police StaƟon by the Officer-in-Charge when she went to surrender a suspect who was wanted on an allegaƟon of rape. Having weighed the evidence produced, this Court was inclined to accept the narraƟon given by the 1st and 2 nd respondents that the peƟƟoner created a commoƟon at the police staƟon. Murdu Fernando, PC, J [as she then was] went on to state that: “Another factor that should be borne in mind is that the office of an AƩorney at-Law is also governed by the Supreme Court (Conduct of and EƟqueƩe for AƩorneys-at￾Law) Rules of 1988 where it is specifically stated that an AƩorney at-Law must not conduct herself in any manner which would be reasonably regarded as unworthy, disgraceful and dishonorable by AƩorney-at-Law of good repute. When analysing the behavior of the peƟƟoner and the 1st respondent based on the affidavits filed before Court, I am reminded of the oŌ quoted saying that, ‘courtesy begets courtesy’.” Taking into consideraƟon (a) the two conflicƟng versions of the 1st PeƟƟoner on the one hand and the Respondents on the other with regard to the alleged assault of the 1st PeƟƟoner by the 13th Respondent, and (b) the nature of the complaint before this Court, I am unable to conclude that the incidents complained of by the 1st PeƟƟoner saƟsfies the test laid down Mrs. W M K De Silva v Chairman, Ceylon FerƟlizer CorporaƟon [supra]. 13 What is clear to my mind however is that the enƟre incident was triggered by the distrust and the dislike that the 1st PeƟƟoner had towards the officers of the Negombo Police StaƟon arising from the alleged torture of Nishantha Fernando, and possibly other incidents involving officers of the Negombo Police StaƟon. This led to an insignificant issue of the 1st PeƟƟoner being unable to park at a place of his choice being blown out of proporƟon. It is clear that both parƟes failed to act with restraint and with respect towards each other. Just as much as Police Officers must act with courtesy to all those visiƟng a police staƟon, an AƩorney-at-Law must also bear in mind that he or she cannot use his or her professional status and privilege to impose unnecessary demands on those serving in a Police StaƟon. I am therefore of the view that the 1st PeƟƟoner has failed to discharge the burden cast on him to establish that the first and second incidents complained of to this Court has resulted in a violaƟon of his fundamental rights guaranteed by ArƟcles 11 and 12(1). ArƟcles 12(1) and 14(1)(g) – the third incident This brings me to the third incident complained of by the PeƟƟoners. It is admiƩed by the Respondents that the office premises of the 1st PeƟƟoner was destroyed by fire and that the 1st PeƟƟoner complained to the Ragama Police StaƟon of such incident. A ciƟzen of this Country is enƟtled in terms of the law to make a complaint to law enforcement authoriƟes of the commission of an offence and is equally enƟtled to have such complaint invesƟgated in accordance with the applicable law in a fair, independent and transparent manner. This posiƟon is clearly set out in SecƟon 109(5)(a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, as amended, which provides as follows: “If from informaƟon received or otherwise, an officer in charge of the police staƟon or inquirer has reason to suspect the commission of any offence, he shall himself make an invesƟgaƟon or authorize the making of an invesƟgaƟon under this Chapter in the manner hereinaŌer set out: 14 Provided however, if the offence is a cognizable offence or he has reason to apprehend a breach of the peace, he shall, in the case of every inquirer, forthwith submit a report to the Magistrate's Court having jurisdicƟon in respect of such offence and in the case of an officer in charge of the police staƟon, forthwith submit a report to his own immediate superior and proceed in person to the spot to invesƟgate the facts and circumstances of the case and to take such measures as may be necessary for the immediate discovery and arrest of the offender;” In Victor Ivon v Sarath N. Silva, AƩorney General and another [(1998) 1 Sri LR 340; at page 349], Mark Fernando, J stated that, “A ciƟzen is enƟtled to a proper invesƟgaƟon - one which is fair, competent, Ɵmely and appropriate - of a criminal complaint, whether it be by him or against him. The criminal law exists for the protecƟon of his rights - of person, property and reputaƟon - and lack of a due invesƟgaƟon will deprive him of the protecƟon of the law.” [emphasis added] Whether inacƟon by law enforcement authoriƟes can amount to a violaƟon of ArƟcle 12(1) was considered by this Court in Faiz v AƩorney General and others [(1995) 1 Sri LR 372]. In that case, the complaint of the peƟƟoner was that the 2nd – 4th respondents who were officers aƩached to the Polonnaruwa Police StaƟon failed to prevent the 6th respondent, a Parliamentarian represenƟng the Polonnaruwa District, from assaulƟng the peƟƟoner, failed to make any endeavour to apprehend the suspects or to take any further steps under the law or even to record the statement of the peƟƟoner that he had been assaulted by the 6th respondent inside the police staƟon. Perera, J observed [at page 402] that: “In this instance it is clear that the 2nd and 3rd respondents deliberately refrained from apprehending the suspects as they were enƟtled to do in law. It was conceded by the AddiƟonal Solicitor General that up to date no plaint had been filed by the police against the 5th, 6th and 7th respondents. While the respondent police officers had taken acƟon with such astounding prompƟtude against the peƟƟoner on the complaint of the 6th respondent of an aƩempt to cause hurt to him and had ensured that the peƟƟoner was remanded, no meaningful acƟon whatsoever has been taken against the 5th, 6th and 7th respondents who had commiƩed such serious 15 offences inside the police staƟon itself up to date. I hold therefore that the peƟƟoner has established beyond doubt that his fundamental right guaranteed by ArƟcle 12(1) of the ConsƟtuƟon has been infringed by the 2 nd and 3rd respondents by execuƟve or administraƟve acƟon.” [emphasis added] Perera, J went on to state [at page 403] that, “It is true that a denial of equal protecƟon has hitherto been largely confined to affirmaƟve acts of discriminaƟon. The view that culpable, official state inacƟon may also consƟtute a denial of equal protecƟon has now been recognized by the United States Supreme Court as well. In Burton v. Wilmington Parking Authority et al ([1961] 345 US 715) JusƟce Clark delivering the opinion of the Court, observed thus "by its inacƟon the Authority and through it the state, has not only made itself a party to the refusal of service but has elected to place its power property and presƟge behind the admiƩed discriminaƟon." In Lynch v. USA (5th CIR 1951) the Federal Court of Appeal stated the opinion thus, "there was a Ɵme when the denial of equal protecƟon of the law was confined to affirmaƟve acts, but the law now is that culpable official inacƟon may also consƟtute a denial of equal protecƟon.” [emphasis added] In M.W. Leelawathie Harriot Perera and others v N.K. Illangakoon and others [SC (FR) ApplicaƟon No 372/2015; SC Minutes of 17th November 2017], the complaint of the peƟƟoners was the failure by the Police to expediƟously prosecute the case against the suspect before the Magistrate’s Court of Moratuwa or in other words inacƟon by the police officers who invesƟgated into the said offence to prosecute the offender. Even though the Magistrate directed that the maƩer be referred to the AƩorney General for his advice it took the Police over a year to comply with such order. Malalgoda, PC, J held that the said inacƟon amounts to the violaƟon of the equal protecƟon guaranteed under ArƟcle 12(1) of the ConsƟtuƟon. I shall now consider whether the PeƟƟoners right to the equal protecƟon of the law guaranteed by ArƟcle 12(1) has been infringed by the failure of the Police to take acƟon on his complaint that his office was set on fire. The 11th Respondent served as the Officer-in-Charge of the Ragama Police StaƟon at the relevant Ɵme, and was acƟng in the course of the official funcƟons assigned to him at all Ɵmes relevant to this applicaƟon. Thus, the State is responsible for the acƟons of the 11th 16 Respondent. Even though the 11th Respondent ceased to hold office upon his reƟrement from the Police Department and did not file an affidavit, the 11th Respondent was represented by the AƩorney General. I only have before me an affidavit of the Officer-in-Charge of the Ragama Police StaƟon who served in that office in 2013. According to the said affidavit, officers of the Ragama Police StaƟon had visited the scene of the incident on 1st February 2009, and officers of the Government Analyst Department are said to have visited the scene on 3rd February 2009. This Court has however not been apprised of what transpired as a result of such visits. Facts have been reported to the Gampaha Magistrate’s Court by the 11th Respondent on the same date under Case No. B/343/2009 on the basis that the complaint discloses an offence punishable under SecƟon 419 of the Penal Code. Thus, on the 11th Respondents own admission, the provisions of SecƟon 109(5)(a) had been triggered. The 11th Respondent was therefore under a legal duty “to invesƟgate the facts and circumstances of the case and to take such measures as may be necessary for the immediate discovery and arrest of the offender.” I have examined the ‘B’ report marked ‘11R1’ and observe that other than (a) recording the statement of the 1st PeƟƟoner, where the 1st PeƟƟoner had expressed his suspicion that it was foul play especially in view of the previous incidents involving officers of the Negombo Police, and (b) filing 11R1, the 11th Respondent has not conducted any invesƟgaƟon at all. This is clearly borne out by the final paragraph in 11R1, which reads as follows: “fuu isoaOhs iunskaOfhka meuKs s,a, igyka lsrSfuka miqjyd mrCsIK lghq;= wdrusN lr we;s w;r fuh .sks ;enSula ksid we;sjq .skaklao" tfia fkdue;skus jsoq,sh ldkaoq jsula isoqjqjlao hkak mrsCId lsrSu i|yd jsoq,s n, uKav,h" weifra ldrahd,h" ri mrsCIl ldrahd,h" jsfYaI fmd,sia wmrdO jsuraIK lKavdhus fj; oekqj;a lr wdod, ks,Odrska udra.fhka fuu .skak we;sjsug fya;=j fidhd n,d fuu iosaOhs iunskaOfhka hus iellrejka isgSkusTjqka w;awvx.=jg f.k .re wOls rKh fj; jdra:d lrk f;la fuu kvqj nyd ;nk fuka f.!rjfhka b,a,d isgsus'” 17 Thus, even though the 11th Respondent speaks of assigning special police teams to invesƟgate the complaint, the 11th Respondent has clearly demonstrated on the first day itself that he had no intenƟon at all in acƟng in terms of the law, invesƟgate the facts & circumstances of the case and take such measures as may be necessary for the immediate discovery and arrest of the offender/s. The 11th Respondent has openly engaged in an absolute sham in derelicƟon of his statutory duty. There was simply no basis for the 11th Respondent to move at the first available opportunity to lay by the case, especially in view of the aforesaid statement in 11R1. That the complaint of the 1st PeƟƟoner was ‘strangled and put to death’ on day one is clearly evident when one considers that the affidavit of the Officer-in-Charge of the Ragama Police StaƟon filed over 4 years aŌer the incident does not disclose if any steps were taken aŌer 3rd February 2009. Nor has the State apprised this Court the steps taken by it even aŌer the filing of the said affidavit. Sixteen years later and the complaint of the 1 st PeƟƟoner that his office was set on fire has remained an unsolved crime. It is indeed a very sad situaƟon as far as law enforcement in this Country is concerned if Police Officers are to adopt such a lackadaisical approach towards their statutory duƟes. The complainants were AƩorneys-at-Law who had the ability to come before this Court and complain. It is not a privilege that a majority of the ciƟzens of this Country can afford, and I fear to think of what the posiƟon might be of such majority. It is not that I do not appreciate that it may not be possible to apprehend the offenders in each and every complaint. However, it shall be the basic responsibility of a Police Officer to conduct a fair and imparƟal invesƟgaƟon without sabotaging the invesƟgaƟon at the first available opportunity. The seriousness of the ‘acƟon’ of the 11th Respondent must be viewed in the background of the allegaƟons levelled against the officers of the Negombo Police StaƟon to which I have referred to. As observed by Mark Fernando, J in Victor Ivon v Sarath N. Silva, AƩorney General and another [supra], the PeƟƟoners were certainly “enƟtled to a proper invesƟgaƟon - one which is fair, competent, Ɵmely and appropriate…”. I am therefore of the view that the inacƟon on the part of the 11th Respondent who funcƟoned as the Officer-in-Charge of the Ragama Police StaƟon to invesƟgate in terms of the law the complaint of the 1st PeƟƟoner has resulted in the 18 violaƟon of the fundamental rights of the PeƟƟoners guaranteed by ArƟcle 12(1) of the ConsƟtuƟon. I must for the sake of completeness state that although the damage to their office would have resulted in an obstrucƟon to the PeƟƟoners engaging in their professional duƟes as AƩorneys-at-Law, the PeƟƟoners have not placed any material to substanƟate their posiƟon that the failure to invesƟgate the said complaint prevented them from engaging in their professional duƟes. Hence, I am not inclined to hold that the fundamental rights of the PeƟƟoners guaranteed by ArƟcle 14(1)(g) have been infringed by any of the Respondents. Conclusion In the above circumstances, I hold that the State must take responsibility for the inacƟon of the 11th Respondent which has resulted in the violaƟon of the fundamental rights of the PeƟƟoners guaranteed by ArƟcle 12(1). I therefore direct that the State pay a sum of Rs. 50,000 as compensaƟon to each of the PeƟƟoners within three months hereof. I make no order with regard to costs. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT S. Thurairaja, PC, J I agree. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT Sobhitha Rajakaruna, J I agree. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT