IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA In the maƩer of an applicaƟon under and in terms of ArƟcle 126 of the ConsƟtuƟon of the DemocraƟc Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka SC (FR) ApplicaƟon No. 568/2012 1) Ceylon Electricity Board Independent Engineers AssociaƟon, Ceylon Electricity Board, Kolonnawa. 2) Kalubowilage Kingsley Bernard Perera, 71A, Vikshopa Devamatha Road, Manaweriya. 3) Nihal Thasmantha AtapaƩu, “Hemantha”, Koramburuwana, Ransegoda, Matara. 4) S.S.M. Indika Seneviratne, 570, Nedumgamuwa, Gampaha. PETITIONERS - Vs - 1) Ceylon Electricity Board, PO Box 540, Sir ChiƩampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2. 2) W.B. Ganegoda 2A) W.D.A.S. Wijayapala 2B) M.M.C Ferdinando 2C) N.S. Illangakoon 2D) Dr. Tilak SiyambalapiƟya 2 2 – 2D Respondents are Chairmen of the Ceylon Electricity Board. 3) T.M. Herath. 3A) W.A. Gamini Wannisekera 3B) N.S. Illangakoon 3C) Abey Ranaweera 3D) D.K.P.U. Gunathilake 3 – 3D Respondents are Chairmen of the Ceylon Electricity Board. 4) K.I.D.P. Kularatne, Working Director. 5) R.A.A.K. Ranawaka 6) W.D. Jayasinghe 7) Dr. B.M.S. Batagoda 8) D.R Wirithamulla 8A) K.P.D.J.G. Kariyawasam 8B) M.R.V.R. Meepura, 2 nd – 8th Respondents are members of the Board of Directors of the Ceylon Electricity Board. 9) B.N.I.F.A. Wickremasuriya, General Manager, Ceylon Electricity Board 9A) A.K. Samarasinghe, 9B) Eng. M.R. Ranatunga 9C) Eng. (Dr.)D.C.R. Abeysekera 9D) Dr. Narendra De Silva 3 9E) Eng. K.G.R.F. Comester 10) K.L.D.M.A Halpe, Deputy General Manager (Personnel) 10A) Eng.P.A.J.P.K. Perera, 10B) Eng. S.A.D.A. Peiris 11) M.C. Wickremasekara, AddiƟonal General Manager (GeneraƟon) 11A) Eng. A.R. Navamani 11B) Eng. N.S. WeƩasinghe 9 th – 11B Respondents at Ceylon Electricity Board, PO Box 540, Sir ChiƩampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2. 12) Hon. AƩorney General, AƩorney General’s Department, Colombo 12. 13) P.I.A.S. Perera, Chief Engineer, Kukuleganga Power StaƟon, Kukuleganga. 14) U.R.S.S. Senadhiratne, Chief Engineer, Ukuwela Power StaƟon, Ukuwela. 15) Mahesh Abeysekara, Member, Board of Directors of the Ceylon Electricity Board, P.O.Box 540, Sir ChiƩampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2. RESPONDENTS 4 Before: Kumudini Wickremasinghe, J Arjuna Obeyesekere, J Sampath B. Abayakoon, J Counsel: Shantha Jayawardena with Thilini Vidanagamage for the PeƟƟoners Fazly Razik, Deputy Solicitor General for the 1st – 11th Respondents Sugath Caldera for the 13th and 14th Respondents Argued on: 6 th June 2025 WriƩen Tendered by the PeƟƟoners on 13th February 2020, 21st June 2021 and Submissions: 23rd June 2025 Tendered by the 1st – 11th Respondents on 30th November 2021 and 24th June 2024 Tendered by the 13th and 14th Respondents on 23rd June 2025 Decided on: 18th July 2025 Obeyesekere, J The 2nd PeƟƟoner is a Class II Grade I Civil Engineer employed at the 1st Respondent, Ceylon Electricity Board [the 1st Respondent]. The 3rd and 4th PeƟƟoners are Class II Grade I Mechanical Engineers, also employed at the 1st Respondent. The 1st PeƟƟoner is a trade union whose membership consists of Mechanical and Civil Engineers employed at the 1st Respondent. The issues that arise in this case are twofold. The first is whether the Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent have taken a decision to appoint Mechanical and Civil Engineers employed at the 1st Respondent to the post of Chief Engineer at the Ukuwela and Kukule Ganga Power StaƟons. The second issue, dependant on the first, is whether the 9 th Respondent, the General Manager of the 1st Respondent [the 9th Respondent] acted contrary to such decision when he called for applicaƟons to fill the said posts by specifying that only Electrical Engineers are eligible to apply for the said posts. 5 The case for the PeƟƟoners The PeƟƟoners state that by a Circular issued on 2nd December 2010 [P3], the AddiƟonal General Manager (GeneraƟon) of the 1st Respondent called for applicaƟons for the post of Chief Engineer at the Kukule Ganga Power StaƟon but had restricted applicaƟons to Electrical Engineers [Class II Grade I] working at the 1st Respondent. The PeƟƟoners state that restricƟng applicaƟons to Electrical Engineers working at the 1st Respondent is unreasonable and unfair. The PeƟƟoners state that on or about 16th December 2010 [P4], the 1st PeƟƟoner made representaƟons to the 1st Respondent to recƟfy this alleged anomaly. P4 refers to two posts in the 1st Respondent. The first is the post of Chief Engineer at Kukule Ganga Power StaƟon where the request of the 1st PeƟƟoner was to permit Mechanical Engineers to apply for such post. The second post is that of Chief Engineer [Business and OperaƟonal Strategy] for which the 1st PeƟƟoner had requested that Mechanical and Civil Engineers be permiƩed to apply. The PeƟƟoners had claimed in P4 that a commiƩee chaired by a former AddiƟonal General Manager of the 1st Respondent had in fact recommended that Mechanical Engineers be allowed to apply for the post of Chief Engineer, Kukule Ganga Power StaƟon. While the report of the said commiƩee has not been placed before this Court, the 1st Respondent has denied the existence of such a commiƩee. The posiƟon as at 4th January 2011 was that only Electrical Engineers were eligible to apply for the above two posiƟons. Accordingly, by a further Circular issued on 4th January 2011 [P5], the 9th Respondent had called for applicaƟons inter alia for the posts of (a) Chief Engineer, Kukule Ganga Power StaƟon, and (b) Chief Engineer, Business and OperaƟonal Strategy, from Electrical Engineers. The PeƟƟoners claim that by leƩer dated 17th January, 2011 Ɵtled “Internal adverƟsement for the posts of Chief Engineer (Kukule Ganga Power StaƟon) and Chief Engineer (Business and OperaƟonal Strategy)” [P6], the Chairman of the 1st Respondent had informed the 9th Respondent as follows: 6 “A leƩer submiƩed by the [1st PeƟƟoner] was taken up for discussion at the Board meeƟng held on January 13, 2011. The Board decided that the said posts must be re-adverƟsed providing the opportunity for Civil and Mechanical Engineers also to apply. Hence, please take acƟon accordingly and present the copy of the adverƟsement at the next Board MeeƟng.” Although on the face of it, P6 has been copied to the 1st PeƟƟoner, the 1st Respondent has denied the existence of P6, and states that it is a forged document for the reason that the signature that appears on P6 as being the signature of the Chairman is not that of the Chairman. Be that as it may, the minutes of the meeƟng held on 13th January 2011 have been tendered to this Court marked P6a. While I shall refer to P6a later in this judgment, I must perhaps state that even if P6 is a genuine document, P6 cannot be read in isolaƟon but must be read in conjuncƟon with what is recorded in P6a. The PeƟƟoners state that notwithstanding P6, the 9th Respondent had not only failed to call for applicaƟons afresh by re-adverƟsing the said posts and thereby providing the opportunity for Civil and Mechanical Engineers to apply, the 9th Respondent had proceeded to appoint an Electrical Engineer to the post of Chief Engineer at the Kukule Ganga Power StaƟon. The PeƟƟoners claim that the failure of the 9th Respondent to comply with the Board decision referred to in P6 was brought to the aƩenƟon of the Chairman of the 1st Respondent, and that at a meeƟng of the Board of Directors held on 29th June 2011, the Board had reiterated the decision taken on 13th January 2011. The minutes of the meeƟng held on 29th June 2011 have been annexed to the peƟƟon marked P7. The complaint of the PeƟƟoners is that notwithstanding the aforemenƟoned decisions of the Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent said to be set out in P6a and P7, the 9th Respondent proceeded to issue a Circular on 30th August 2012 [P8] calling for applicaƟons only from Electrical Engineers for the posts of Chief Engineer at the Kukule Ganga and Ukuwela Power staƟons. The PeƟƟoners claim that having made representaƟons and having been informed by P6 that the Board of Directors had decided to accede to their 7 request, the PeƟƟoners and all other Mechanical and Civil Engineers at the 1st Respondent had a legiƟmate expectaƟon that all future applicaƟons for the post of Chief Engineer at the Kukule Ganga and Ukuwela Power staƟons will be open for Mechanical and Civil Engineers employed at the 1st Respondent. The PeƟƟoners claim that in these circumstances, the decision of the 9th Respondent to issue P8 is not only arbitrary but is violaƟve of their legiƟmate expectaƟons and amounts to an infringement of the fundamental right of the 2nd – 4th PeƟƟoners to the equal protecƟon of the law guaranteed by ArƟcle 12(1) of the ConsƟtuƟon. The PeƟƟoners have accordingly moved that P8 be quashed and that fresh applicaƟons be called for the said posts from Electrical, Mechanical and Civil engineers. This being the case for the PeƟƟoners, I shall now consider the case for the Respondents. The version of the Respondents The learned Deputy Solicitor General appearing for the 1st Respondent submiƩed that the Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent has not taken any decision permiƫng Mechanical and Civil Engineers to apply for the post of Chief Engineer, either at the Kukule Ganga Power StaƟon or at the Ukuwela Power StaƟon and that the PeƟƟoners have misrepresented facts by claiming that such a decision had been taken. In considering the submissions of the learned Deputy Solicitor General, I must bear in mind that (a) by P4 dated 16th December 2010, the PeƟƟoners made representaƟons in respect of two posts, that of Chief Engineer, Kukule Ganga Power StaƟon and Chief Engineer, Business and OperaƟonal Strategy, and (b) the Circular P5 issued on 4th January 2011 too referred to these two posts. Paragraph 11.01.21.08 of the minutes of the meeƟng held on 13th January 2011 [P6a] reads as follows: “Chief Engineer vacancies in the Corporate Strategy Division of the CEB The leƩer dated December 16, 2010 addressed to the General Manager, CEB, by the Ceylon Electricity Board Independent Engineers AssociaƟon, with a copy to the Chairman, CEB was tabled. 8 The Board decided that the said posts must be re-adverƟsed providing the opportunity for Civil and Mechanical Engineers to apply for the said post. General Manager was directed to take acƟon accordingly and present the copy of the amended adverƟsement at the next Board meeƟng.” While the reference in P6a is to P4, it is clear from the heading of Paragraph No. 11.01.21.08 that the above decision relates only to the post of Chief Engineer in the Corporate Strategy Division of the 1st Respondent and not to the post of Chief Engineer, either at the Kukule Ganga or Ukuwela Power StaƟons. Thus, P6a does not support the version of the PeƟƟoners that the Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent took a decision to open the post of Chief Engineer, either at the Kukule Ganga or Ukuwela Power StaƟons to Mechanical and/or Civil Engineers. Paragraph 11.01.21.09 of P6a reads as follows: “DiscriminaƟon of Mechanical and Civil Engineers in the CEB The leƩer dated December 16, 2010 addressed to the General Manager, CEB by Ceylon Electricity Board Independent Engineers AssociaƟon with a copy to the Chairman, CEB was tabled and noted by the Board. ” Thus, what the Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent had decided at their meeƟng held on 13th January 2011 is to permit Mechanical and Civil Engineers to apply for the post of Chief Engineer in the Corporate Strategy Division. The Board of Directors have not decided at the said meeƟng held on 13th January 2011 to permit Mechanical and Civil Engineers of the 1st Respondent to apply for the post of Chief Engineer at the Kukule Ganga or Ukuwela Power StaƟons, as the learned Counsel for the PeƟƟoners made it out to be. Therefore, even if the authenƟcity of P6 is accepted, P6 cannot be construed as giving rise to a legiƟmate expectaƟon on the part of the PeƟƟoners that Mechanical and Civil Engineers of the 1st Respondent can apply for the post of Chief Engineer, either at the Kukule Ganga or Ukuwela Power StaƟons. 9 Even though the PeƟƟoners claimed that P7 reaffirmed the decision in P6, a closer examinaƟon of P7 would demonstrate that it is not so. The learned Deputy Solicitor General drew the aƩenƟon of this Court to Item 11.13.183.10 [P7a] which is re-produced below: “Appointment of Chief Engineer Kukule Ganga Hydro Power StaƟon The leƩer dated May 04, 2011 addressed to the General Manager, CEB with a copy to the Chairman, CEB by the Joint Secretary, Ceylon Electricity Board Independent Engineers AssociaƟon, was tabled. The Board noted the decision taken under minute number 11.01.21.08 of the Board MeeƟng held on January 13, 2011 i.e. “the said posts must be re-adverƟsed providing the opportunity for Civil and Mechanical Engineers to apply for the said post. General Manager was directed to take acƟon accordingly and present the copy of the amended adverƟsement at the next Board meeƟng” has not been carried out. General Manager was requested to take necessary acƟon accordingly to carry out the Board decision taken.” It must be noted that leƩer dated 4th May 2011 sent by the 1st PeƟƟoner has not been tendered by the PeƟƟoners. Thus, P7a is referable to the post of Chief Engineer in the Corporate Strategy Division. The reference to paragraph 11.01.21.08 in P6a which only dealt with Chief Engineer, Corporate Strategy does not support the version of the PeƟƟoners that the Board of Directors of the 1 st Respondent had decided to permit Mechanical and Civil Engineers of the 1st Respondent to apply for the posts of Chief Engineer at the Kukule Ganga or Ukuwela Power StaƟons. P7a however goes to support what is recorded in P6a, that being to permit Mechanical and Civil Engineers to apply for the post of Chief Engineer in the Corporate Strategy Division of the 1st Respondent. In these circumstances, I am of the view that (a) limiƟng applicaƟons to the post of Chief Engineer at the Kukule Ganga or Ukuwela Power StaƟons to Electrical Engineers is not in contravenƟon of the decision of the Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent as set out in 10 P6a or P7, and (b) P8 is therefore not arbitrary and is not violaƟve of the fundamental rights of the 2nd – 4th PeƟƟoners guaranteed by ArƟcle 12(1). There is one other maƩer that I wish to advert to, prior to concluding. Decision of the 1st Respondent - 2012 The learned Deputy Solicitor General submiƩed that all hydropower plants require the services of electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and civil engineers for the smooth funcƟoning and operaƟon of its acƟviƟes. However, he submiƩed that these categories of Engineers consƟtute a disƟnct and separate class in view of their disƟnct qualificaƟons, their experƟse and the funcƟons they perform in the 1st Respondent. He submiƩed further that in view of the highly technical nature of the role of Chief Engineer of hydropower staƟons and the specific experƟse required to manage such high risk power staƟons, the 1st Respondent has consistently limited the aforesaid posts to Electrical Engineers considering their parƟcular knowledge and experƟse in operaƟng and managing the criƟcal components of these power staƟons. Pursuant to the filing of this applicaƟon the 1st Respondent had appointed a commiƩee consisƟng of an AƩorney-at-law, an Electrical Engineer who was at that Ɵme the Dean, Faculty of Engineering at the Kotelawela Defense University, and a Professor aƩached to the Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Moratuwa to revisit the quesƟon of whether mechanical and civil engineers can be allowed to apply for the post of Chief Engineer of a hydropower staƟon. In their report [2R2], the CommiƩee has concluded that “the opening up of the Chief Engineer-in-Charge of the Kukuleganga and Ukuwela Hydro Power projects for mechanical and civil engineers would be detrimental to the effecƟve funcƟoning of these power staƟons.” The learned Deputy Solicitor General submiƩed that the said report was tabled before the Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent on 12th March, 2014 and has been duly approved. It was therefore his posiƟon that the current decision of the Board of Directors of the 1st Respondent is that it is only Electrical Engineers who are eligible to apply for the post of Chief Engineer of a hydro power staƟon. 11 Conclusion In the above circumstances, this applicaƟon is dismissed, without costs. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT Kumudini Wickremasinghe, J I agree. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT Sampath B. Abayakoon, J I agree. JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT