1 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA In the matter of an application under Article 126 of the Constitution of Sri Lanka S.C.F.R. 64/2009 1. S.A.W. de Silva “Kusum”, Etholuwa Meetiyagoda, Ambalangoda 2. A.I.L. Sugathadasa “Isuru”, Weligampitiya Pokunuwita 3. G. Nishantha Morawakage 265/2, Weera Mawatha Depanama, Pannipitiya 4. W.K.M.S.T. Bandara 75, Ihala Kanogama, Katupotha 5. M.U. Gayani “Aruna”, Udakanatta Watta Mudugamuwa, Weligama 6. S.S. Vithanage No.22, 4th Lane, Ratmalana 7. W.U.S. Alwis No.103, Galkanuwa Road Gorakana, Moratuwa 8. Chaminda Kottawatta Ranna North Ranna, Tangalle 9. B.G.C. Nilushika No.33/12, Angulana Railway 2 Satation Road, Lakshapathiya, Moratuwa 10. P.M. Kanattawatta No. 218, 6th Lane Dikhenpura, Horana 11. M.K.D. Thushari D.S. Abeygunawardena Mawatha Morawaka 12. A.T. Piyasiri No. 46, Kapuhena Road Maha Uduwa 13. U.I. Mathugamage Horaketiya Junction AgalOya, Bulathsinghala 14. H.M.N. Munasingha “Singhavilla”, Pahalaharwella Weegabugedara, Kurunegala 15. L.P. De Silva Galle Road, Middaramulla Ahungalla 16. B.M. Niroshan Wimaladasa No. 49 1/1, Moratumulla North Moratuwa 17. W.R.N. Deepagoda 11 km Post, Ambalanwatta Atakalampanna 18. H.A.V.L.S. Nawaratna 8B, Public Servants Village Diurumpitiya, Gatahatta 19. K.P.U. Pushpakumara No. 441/2, Old Road 3 Moraketiya, Pannipitiya 20. M.M. Kappagoda Kandegedara, Devalegama 21. K.L.A. Ariyakeerthi Temple Road Magulagama 22. K.M.J.M. Warnasuriya Galgamuwa South Mahaarachchimulla, Kurunegala 23. M.G.S. Priyadarshani No. 54/B, Ihagama Madawala, Harispattuwa 24. E.M.M.K. Ekanayake “Sahana”, Gammadugolla Malkaduwawa Road, Kurunegala 25. W.S.D. Gunaratne No. 43/1 A, Kottapola Hakahinne, Kegalle 26. L.J.C. Gunathilake No. 275/14, Bandaranayake Mawatha, Kegalle 27. S.P.R. Disanayake “Shanthi”, Pitawala Hewadiwela, Rambukkana 28. D.R.I. Udeshini, No. 103, Alawwa Road, Warakapola 29. S.V. Ranathungage No. 48, Danovita Road Meerigama 4 30. H.P. Keerthirathne 497, Bandaranayake Road Weyangoda 31. G.J.R.N.N.D. Ramanayake No. 20/74, “Green Terance” Parakandeniya, Imbulgoda 32. R.C. Warusavithana A-130, Perth Paradise Ratnapura Road, Gurugoda, Horana 33. A.K.M. Kularatna Wagawathugoda, KudaUduwa Horana 34. D.M.C.K. Dissanayake “Disawasa” Amunukola Road, Eppawala 35. R.R.P. Malalasekera No. 58, Konwewa, Upuldeniya Anuradhapura 36. W.A.J. Bandara Pahalagama, Dunumala Warakapola 37. A.M.P.G. Seneviratne 1/301, Wedagewatta Road Kotuwegoda, Rajagiriya 38. M.K.A.P. Gunathilake No. 352, Awissawella Road Kelanimulla, Mulleriyawa New Town 39. S. Rajinikanth, No. 32 Mariya Basar, Lindula 5 40. R.M.W.L. Ratnayake No. 214/E, “Sanasuma” Midahinna, Kinigama, Bandarawela 41. S.E. Pussawalage No. 38/1, Beraliyadola Watta Hapugala, Wakwella, Galle 42. K.L. Priyantha “Yamuna”, Meeruppa Denipitiya 43. K.G.A. Gunasekara Mohottiwatta Watagedaramulla Denipitiya 44. K.G.K. Dhasmasiri “Thilaka”, Hittatiya Mada Matara 45. N.M. Ranaweera “Ranasewana” Malimbada North, Matara 46. H.M.K.P.A.B. Wijeratne No. 66, Yatawatta, Matale 47. M.M.S.B. Wijethilake No. 74/1, Kurundeniya, Akurana 48. K. Jayantha, Ambagahawatta MahaEla Kandiya, Koggala Ambalantota 49. H.K. Samarasinghe “Darshana”, Gangasiri Mawatha Malimbada Palatuwa 50. H.L.K. Thushari 6 No. 803/4, Gurugewatta KoralaIma, Gonapola Junction 51. J.A.K.K. Jayasuriya “Sikuruwana”, Kalatuwawa Pasyala 52. L.M.S.P. Kumara, No. 18/2 Meewella Road, Pethiyagoda Kelaniya 53. S.W.S.G. Dissanayake, No. 375, Potategama, Pahala Giribawa Galagamuwa 54. B.K.P.B. Rodrigo, 223-D, Henewatte Road, Welivita, Kaduwela 55. N. Abeythunga, No. 124A, Maragoda, Thelijjawila 56. W.P.G. Pushpakumara No. 261, Bandagiriya Welihatta Hambantota 57. C. Widanapathirana Wellandagoda, Kirama 58. H.M.Y.B.L. Heenkenda 422/1, Dippitiya, Alawathugoda 59. B.K.M. Dharmasiri, No. 286/2, Payingamuwa, Hidagala, Peradeniya 60. K. Sasikaran, Manchavanapathy Veethy, Kokuvil-West, Kokuvil PETITIONERS 7 V. 1. Saliya W. Mathew, Chairman 2. K.L.L. Wijeratne, Member 3. S.C. Mannapperuma, Member 4. Deshabandu M. Mackie Hashim, Member 5. Dr. Jerry Jayawardena, Member 6. Ariyapala de Silva, Member 7. Dr. Loyd Fernando, Member 8. V.Kanaksabhapathy, Member 9. Gunapala Wickramaratne, Member 10. Soma Kotakadeniya, Member 11. Leslie Devendra, Member 12. D.W. Subasinghe, Member 13. Prof. Carlo Fonseka, Member 1 st to 13th respondents all of the National Salaries and Cadres Commission, No. 2G-10, Bandaranayake Memorial International Conference Hall (BMICH), Bauddaloka Mawatha, Colombo 7 14. Industrial Development Board, 615, Galle Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa 15. K.G. Gamini Gunadasa, Chiarman 16. A.P. Kurumbalapitiya, Member 17. K.G.T.P. Dissanayake, Member 18. S.H. Harischandra, Member 19. N.W. Hettiarachchi, Member 20. Aruna Gunawardene, Member 21. A.M.D. Bandara, Member 14th to 21st respondents all of the Members of the Industrial Development 8 Board, 615, Galle Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa 22. Hon. Attorney-General, Attorney￾General’s Department, Colombo 12 RESPONDENTS Before: Saleem Marsoof, PC, J. Chandra Ekanayake, J. Dep, PC, J. Counsel: J.C. Weliamuna with Pulasthi Hewamanne for the Petitioner Ms.Viveka Siriwardene SSC, for the respondents Written submissions tendered on: 4.1.2010 for petitioners 4.1.2010 for 1st to 13th and 22nd respondents Argued on: 26.11.2013 Decided on: 27.03.2014 9 CHANDRA EKANAYAKE J. The 1st to 60th petitioners by their petition dated 20.01.2009 (filed together with an affidavit of the 1st petitioner) had sought reliefs by way of declarations to the effect that the 1st to 13th respondents have violated the fundamental rights of the petitioners' guaranteed under Article 12(1) of the Constitution and that the decision of the 1st to 13th respondents and/or 14th to 21st respondents to categorise the petitioners as Management Assistants (MA) is null and void and that the petitioners are entitled to be categorised either as Middle Management (MM) or Junior Management (JM) or as executives or managers thereof and to be so appointed to such grade forthwith, an order to quash that part of P6 strictly in so far as it is applicable to the petitioners, a direction to the 1st to 13th respondents and/or 14th to 21st respondents to take steps forthwith to categorise the petitioners either as Middle Management (MM) or Junior Management (JM) or as executives or managers thereof. Further, the petitioners had sought compensation in a sum determined by this Court. When this application was supported on 19.2.2009 this Court had proceeded to grant leave to proceed in respect of the alleged violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 12(1) of the Constitution. The petitioners are employees of the 14th Respondent Board – namely Industrial Development Board (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the “IDB”) holding the posts of 'Enterprise Promotion Managers - (EPM) -Executive Grade -V' as evidenced by the letter of appointment of the 1st petitioner marked P2 and the other petitioners too were issued with similar letters of appointment. Further they had been recruited as Enterprise Promotion Managers – Executive Grade – V, by an open competitive examination followed by an interview. The educational qualifications of all the petitioners are borne out by the document annexed to the petition marked P1. It is further averred that in terms of the previously applicable Scheme of Promotion, those who had 7 years in EPM – Executive Grade – V were entitled to be promoted to EPM – Executive Grade – IV as per P9 [entitling to a higher salary, emoluments and being eligible to apply for the post of Assistant Director – (AD) thereof - see P8(f).] As averred in paragraph 2 of the petition the petitioners have challenged the purported decision 10 of the respondents to categorize them as Management Assistants which being a non-executive/ non -managerial grade in the Public Service and it is further alleged that by this their promotional prospects also have been abolished. Petitioners have further contended that prior to the impugned decisions of the respondents as per the structure of Grades of Employees that prevailed in the IDB, Enterprise Promotion Manager – Grade IV or V were Executive Grades (Vide paragraph 4 of the present petition). Consequent to the Public Administration Circular No.06/2006 by which salaries in the Public Service inclusive of statutory boards were revised, salaries of employees of corporations, statutory boards and fully owned government companies were effected by Management Services Circular No.30 (P3). The schedule to the said P3 which is annexed to the Petition marked P4 has categorized the employees of Corporations, Statutory Boards, fully owned government companies as follows :- Higher Management - HM Academic and Research - AR Middle Management - MM Junior Management - JM Management Assistant - MA Primary Level - PL Petitioners complain that by the Schedule of Grades (based on P3 and P4) issued by the Salaries and Cardres Commission in respect of the employees of the IDB which is annexed to the petition marked P6(being an annexure to the covering letter of 21/02//2006 – (P5)], they were aggrieved in the following manner:- (a) that petitioners have been placed under Management Assistant - MA category which being a non-executive position and (b) EPM Executive Grade - IV was abolished which being a promotional step until then. It is noteworthy that in terms of P6 they have been placed on the salary scale MA5.2. In the aforesaid circumstances it is contended that purported decisions of the respondents to categorize the petitioners as Management Assistants (non executive/non-managerial grade) and 11 abolition of promotional prospects thereof constituted an infringement of their rights guaranteed under Article 12 (1) of the Constitution. The 1st Respondent by his affidavit dated 29.5.2009 has mainly relied on the following among others:- (a) the Management Circular No. 30 stated that restructuring of salaries will not in any way affect the status of employees and, (b) that petitioners have been correctly categorized as Enforcement/ Operational/ Extension Officers, for the purpose of revision of salary without changing the status enjoyed by them. The petitioners have taken up the position that they were employees of the Industrial Development Board (IDB) and were holding the post of Enterprise Promotion Manager (EPM) Executive Grade V, which is an Executive Grade. According to the documents marked P8(a) to P8(i) they were entitled to be promoted to EPM Executive Grade IV on completion of 7 years of service in that position. Furthermore, the petitioners have produced documents to establish that they had discussions and exchanged correspondence [P7(a) to P7(d)] to resolve this anomaly. The document marked P9 was also produced to substantiate the position that their employer namely- the Industrial Development Board (IDB) recommended that EPM Executive Grade - V to be categorized as Junior Management (JM) under the new scheme. This has to be considered in the context of non filing of objections by the IDB - (14th respondent) and 15th to 21st respondents who being its members. They have consented to abide by any decision that would be given by this Court in this regard. An examination of the letters of appointment issued to the petitioners (P2) and other material, in conjunction with the averments contained in paragraph 13 of the petition establishes that the duties that were performed by the petitioners immediately prior to the impugned categorization by the new circular belong to an Executive Grade. The petitioners contend that the impugned categorization has positively brought them down from the management level (Enterprise Promotion Managers – Executive Grade – V) to a non-managerial - level viz: a grade called 12 Non-Managerial level (Enforcement /Operational/Extension Officers) under the salary scale MA5.2. However the respondents laid stress heavily on the fact that the petitioners were never classified as Management Assistants and in fact they were classified as Enforcement /Implementation/Extension Officers solely for the purpose of revision of salary. The petitioners’ position is that in accordance with the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 the salaries of employees of corporations, statutory bodies and fully owned government companies were brought under the Management Circular N0. 30 (P3 and P4). Under P3 employees of the said institutions have been classified into several categories and the petitioners in their petition state that they should have been categorized either as JM meaning Junior Management or MM meaning Middle Management. Petitioners' complaint is that based on the Circular P3 the Salaries and Cadres Commission (S&CC) issued a schedule of grades applicable to employees of the Industrial Development Board (IDB) which abolished the EPM Executive Grade IV which the petitioners belonged to and placed them in a new category called MA( Management Assistant (MA) (Kalamanakara Sahayaka) which falls into a non-executive grade. And as per P6 they have been placed on the salary scale MA. 5:2. The petitioners have produced documents to establish that they had discussions and exchanged correspondence [P7(a) to [P7(d)] to resolve this anomaly. They have also produced the document (P9) to prove that their direct employer the Industrial Development Board (IDB) has recommended that EPM Executive Grade -V be categorized as Junior Management(JM) under the new salary scheme. This has also been borne out by the fact that the IDB the 14th respondent and the 15th to 21st respondents being its members have not filed objections and have consented to abide by any decision that would be given by this Court. An examination of the letters of appointment of the petitioners (P2) together with the averments contained in para 13 of the Petition establishes that duties performed by the petitioners immediately prior to the impugned categorization by the new Circular belonged to an executive grade. What has to be ascertained is whether the new categorization of the petitioners according to the relevant Circular amounts to a demotion and/ or placing them in an inferior 13 position to the position or grade that existed before the promulgation of the same as claimed by the petitioners. The petitioners claim that the impugned categorization has positively brought them down from the management level (Enterprise Promotion Managers – Executive - grade - (V) to a grade in a non-managerial level to wit: Enforcement /Implementation/Extension Officers under the salary scale MA 5:2. However the respondents laid stress heavily on the fact that they were never classified as Management Assistants and in fact they were classified as Enforcement/Implementation/ Extension Officers, solely for the purpose of re-structuring the salary structure. It is also submitted on behalf of the respondents that the petitioners were Executive Officers holding the designation of Enterprise Promotion Manager (EPM) Grade-V and that they continued to be Executive Officers designated as EPM Grade-V. The learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the abbreviations ‘MA’ is merely an acronym which only denotes salary code. To buttress this argument the learned counsel drew the attention of Court to the contents of paragraph 2 of annexure 11 of P3 which is to the following effect: “The proposed new salary structure arises out of a re-structuring process covering all the prevailing salary scales and it is not an exercise of granting percentage increases on the existing salary scales. Accordingly various categories of employees, who have hitherto been drawing different salary scales, have been broadly regrouped as follows founded on factors such as entry qualifications, nature of duties assigned to the post, level of responsibilities and the position held in the organizational structure etc. It shall be noted that this re-categorization is purely for the purpose of restructuring the salary structure and shall not in anyway affect or vary the current status of the employee.” In view of the above submission of the learned counsel for the respondents this Court is unable to accept that the abbreviation 'MA' is used to identify the new position under the new circular, 14 is merely an ‘acronym’ which only denotes a salary code. It is the considered view of this court that the regrouping of the grades under the new circular has been made having taken into consideration inter alia the standing of each employee, their qualifications, nature of duties assigned to the particular post, level of responsibilities and the position held by each employee in the organizational structure before the introduction of the new circular. Thus I am hesitant to accept the position that the abbreviation ‘MA’ by which the new post was identified was merely an acronym devoid of a meaning. As such this Court holds the view that the two letters are abbreviations but not acronyms. According to the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary - 4th Edition by A.P.Cowie: Abbreviations- ‘shortened form of a word or phrase’. Examples given therein are as follows: ‘Sept.’ for September and, ‘GB’ for Great Britain. Furthermore following are given under the word 'abbreviation' in – “The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary Edited by Leslye Brown – Vol.1-A-M, 1993” :- 'The result of abbreviating; a reduced form; an abridgment. A shortened from of a word, phrase, or symbol. Wherefore ‘MA’ as used in P6 has to be none other than an abbreviation of the phrase 'Management Assistant’. According to the same dictionary: Acronym - a word formed from the initial letters of a group of words, eg. UNESCO for United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Thus I am hesitant to accept the two letters as an acronym as submitted by the respondents' Counsel. On the contrary the Court is of the view that the two letters ‘MA’ as used in the relevant circular is an abbreviation of the phrase ‘Management Assistant’ and not an acronym. Further this Court holds the view that the contention of the respondents that this classification only denotes a salary code cannot be accepted. Further it is manifestly clear from P6 that the abbreviations of the other positions therein clearly denotes:- (a) HM- to mean Higher Senior Managers, 15 (b) MM- to mean Middle Managers, (c) JM- to mean Junior Managers, (d) PL- to mean Primary Level. Thus, this Court concludes that the letters 'MA' is not an acronym but an abbreviation denoting the phrase and that MA - 5:2 denotes the category of Management Assistants. Now I shall advert to the contents of Management Circular No.30. According to clause 3.2 of the Annexure II of P.3 Management Assistants' Service has been defined as follows; ‘The services that supplement, facilitate, and support functions performed by executive and managerial personnel of institutions are classified as Management Assistant Services'. In view of the above, I am persuaded to accept the position of the petitioners that they have been categorized into a group which actually rendered supportive services to them (the petitioners) prior to the implementation of P6 and the impugned categorization, demonstrably brought them down from their previous status as officers of Executive Grade - V. The Court also holds that this manifest lowering of their grade definitely affects their future promotional prospects wherein they have been categorized(or classified) as ‘Management Assistants’ which is a non-executive and/or non-managerial grade. It appears to Court that the petitioners had a legitimate expectation of being promoted to senior positions in their career gradually by seniority and experience as provided by the conditions of recruitment that prevailed at the time of recruitment. It was alleged that abolition of EPM Executive Grade – IV by P6 (which being the next promotional step) that existed prior to P6, affected their promotions in the service and is discriminatory. In my view, this constitutes a substantial ground to seek relief in respect of an imminent infringement of the rights guaranteed under Article 12(1). In this regard, observation of His Lordship Kulatunga, J in, Gunaratne v. Sri Lanka Telecom {(1993) 1 SLR 109} at 115 would lend assistance to wit - if a scheme affects the promotions in an existing service it is inherently discriminatory and prospective 16 candidates for promotions under such scheme may apply for a declaration that such scheme is invalid on the ground that it constitutes an imminent infringement of their rights under Article 12(1). The learned Senior State Counsel for the respondents took up the position that the petitioners' application is time barred and should be dismissed in limine. On a perusal of all the material before Court, the grievances of the petitioners amount to a continuing violation of their rights. According to their petition the petitioners had been Enterprise Promotion Managers Executive Grade -V prior to the impugned categorization and that they performed numerous administrative functions in the IDB. According to para 4(b) of the counter affidavit of the 1st respondent and P10 which were identical to the contents of Clauses 3-6 in P3 which establishes that they had been in the Junior/Middle management level in the IDB. As evidenced by R2A, ‘MM 1-2' is the salary code corresponding to the Enterprise Promotion Managers (EPM) Executive grade - 1V which being the next promotional step of the petitioners prior to the impugned circular. Contention of the petitioners' was that as per R2A under the new scheme the next step in their promotional rung should have been the Middle Level Management Grade (MM1-2). It is observed that by categorizing the petitioners into a group which rendered supportive services to them, prior to the implementation of P6 have brought them down from their original executive status to a non-executive and/or a non-managerial category namely: ‘Management Assistants’ jeopardizing their future promotional prospects. Viewed in the above context, I conclude that by failure to place the petitioners either in the Middle Management(MM) or in Junior Management (JM) under the new classification, 1 st to 21st respondents have violated their fundamental rights guaranteed to them under Article 12(1) of the Constitution. Thus, this Court proceeds to grant the reliefs sought by sub-prayers (c)-(g) of the prayer to the petition dated 20/01/2009 to wit, (1) a declaration that the 1st to 21st respondents have violated the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 12(1) of the Constitution of Sri Lanka, 17 (2) a declaration that the decision of the 1st to 21st respondents to categorise the petitioners as Management Assistants (MA) is null and void, (3) a declaration that the petitioners are entitled to be categorised either as Middle Management (MM) or Junior Management (JM), (4) an order quashing that part of P6 strictly in so far as it is applicable to the petitioners as above, (5) a direction to the 1st to 21st respondents forthwith to take steps to categorise the petitioners either as Middle Management (MM) or Junior Management (JM). In all the circumstances of the case, no order is made with regard to costs. Judge of the Supreme Court SALEEM MARSOOF, PC, J. I agree Judge of the Supreme Court DEP, PC, J I agree Judge of the Supreme Court.