Manchihamy v. Abeysekere Et Al. - NLR - 479 of 15 [1911] LKCA 67; (1911) 15 NLR 479 (8 December 1911) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1911 >> [1911] LKCA 67 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Manchihamy v. Abeysekere Et Al. - NLR - 479 of 15 [1911] LKCA 67; (1911) 15 NLR 479 (8 December 1911) 479 Present: Lascelles C.J. and Middleton J. MANCHIHAMY v. ABEYASEKERA et al. 176-D. C. (Inty.) Galle, 4,057. Last will in the custody of testator - Will missing at death - Presumption that will was destroyed animo revocandi- Presumption may be rebutted. Where a will is traced to the custody of a testator and cannot be found at his death, the presumption is that he destroyed it himself; but this presumption may be rebutted by evidence leading to a contrary conclusion, as by a declaration of good will towards the parties benefited by the will, or of an adherence to the will. T HE facts are set out in the judgment. Bawa, for the appellants. Sampayo, K.C., for the respondent. Cur. adv. vult. December 8, 1911. Lascelles C.J.- This is an appeal from an order of the District Court of Galle declaring the petitioner to be entitled to take out letters of administration to the estate of her deceased husband, Don Johannes Abeysena, Arachchi, who died on May 13, 1911. The appellants are the first and second respondents to the petition, who are the sons of the deceased. It appears that the deceased, who had lived apart from his wife for many years, had an illegitimate daughter, Carlina by name, who was being brought up at Buona Vista Orphanage. On August 30, 1911, Miss La Brooy, the Lady Superintendent of the Orphanage, filed a petition in the District Court, the substance of which is more fully stated in Miss La Brooy's evidence in these proceedings. Miss La Brooy, whose evidence is accepted by both parties, stated that the deceased came to the Orphanage on April 23; that he stated that his doctors had given time only three months to live; that he entrusted to Miss La Brooy, for the use of his daughter, a packet of jewellery, and a " receipt " on which he thought Rs. 53,344 could be recovered from a debtor for his daughter; that he said that he distrusted" his sons and had made a will leaving some landed property to Carlina; that he wished to leave something more to her, and to make another will for that purpose. It was proved by Notary Seneviratne that on April 6, 1905, a will was duly executed by the deceased, and the notary produced his instructions, which show clearly the purport of the will. By the 480 will all the movable property of the deceased and the bulk of the immovable property were left to the deceased's two sons (the appellants), on whom was imposed the duty of educating Carlina and also two grandchildren of the deceased. The soil and fruit trees of one parcel of land were devised to Carlina. The will was taken away by the deceased, and was not forthcoming at the time of his death. The question is whether, in the circumstances, the deceased must be taken to have destroyed the will with the intention of revoking it. In the argument we were referred to the leading cases on the subject, including Sugden v. Lord St. Leonards, l James v. Shrimp ton, 2 Harris v. Knight. 3 By these and other authorities the rule is well settled that where a will is traced to the custody of a testator and cannot be found at his death, the presumption is that he destroyed it himself; but this presumption may be rebutted by evidence leading to a contrary conclusion, as by a declaration of good will towards the parties benefited by the will, or of an adherence to the will. Williams on Executors (9th ed.), vol. I., p. 134. From the evidence it is clear that the deceased, so far from manifesting an intention to adhere to the will, made statements to Miss La Brooy which point to an intention to make a new will, rather than to adhere to his previous will. He stated in terms that he intended to make a new will making better provision for Carlina; that he distrusted his sons, to whom by his former will he had confided the case of Carlina and his grandchildren. It appears from the evidence of the first appellant that three or four days before the deceased's death instructions were given to prepare a new will, and that a draft will was prepared by Mr. de Vos. It is to be regretted that fuller inquiry was not made as to whether the deceased at this date himself gave any and what instructions for the preparation of a new will. But the evidence on this part of the case, so far as it goes, confirms the inference, which is deducible from the deceased's statement to Miss La Brooy, that the deceased was dissatisfied with his former will and intended making another. There is no evidence to support the suggestion that the will was made away with by a former mistress of the deceased, who is said to have stolen other papers of the deceased. In my opinion the evidence adduced has not been rebutted, but has rather strengthened the presumption that the deceased destroyed the will animo revocandi, and I think that the District Judge, on the evidence before him, was right in dealing with the case on the footing of an intestacy. I would dismiss the appeal with costs. Middleton J. -I agree. Appeal dismissed. 1 1 P. D. 154. 2 1 P. D. 431. 3 15 P. D. 170. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1911/67.html