Pronchihamy v. Don Davit - NLR - 14 of 15 [1911] LKCA 75; (1911) 15 NLR 14 (5 October 1911) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1911 >> [1911] LKCA 75 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Pronchihamy v. Don Davit - NLR - 14 of 15 [1911] LKCA 75; (1911) 15 NLR 14 (5 October 1911) 13 Present : Middleton J. and Grenier J. PRONCHIHAMY v. DON DAVIT . 280-D. C. Tangalla. 1,074. Action by wife to have deed of conveyance executed by her in favour of husband set aside on the ground of fraud - No fraud proved-Resulting trust - A trust to re-convey - Ordinance No. 7 of 1840, s. 2. Plaintiff sued her husband, the defendant, for the cancellation of a deed of conveyance of land executed by her in favour of the defendant, alleging that the defendant had fraudulently induced her to execute the deed. Held (on the facts), that there was no evidence of fraud. Middleton J.-An English Court might find, even without fraud being proved, that a resulting trust had arisen, to which effect might be given in spite of the Statute of Frauds; but I doubt if under our Statute a Ceylon Court would be able to give effect to a trust to re-convey in the face of section 2, unless it was proved that the Statute has been used for the purpose of perpetrating a fraud. Gould v. Innasitamby 1 and Ohlmus v. Ohlmus 2 distinguished. T HE facts appear from the judgment. Bawa, for defendant, appellant. Bartholomeusz, for the plaintiff, respondent. Cur. adv. vult. 1 (1904) 9 N. L. R. 177. 2 (1906) 9 N. L. R. 183. 14 October 5, 1911. Middleton J. - This was an action by a wife against her husband to obtain the cancellation of a conveyance by her to her husband in 1906 of 5/48ths of a land and building, which formerly belonged to the defendant's father, and which he had at one time partly purchased and partly inherited from his parents, and having so obtained possession conveyed to one Babun Appu for alleged safe keeping, who conveyed it to the plaintiff. I think the evidence and the inferences to be drawn from it clearly establish that the property was transferred without consideration by the defendant to Babun Appu, by Babun Appu to plaintiff, and by plaintiff again to the defendant. The ground on which the cancellation is sought now, in conformity with a direction of the Supreme Court for a new trial, is that the plaintiff was fraudulently induced by her husband to execute the deed in question. The learned District Judge has held that there is sufficient evidence to show that defendant fraudulently induced the plaintiff to sign the deed, and gave judgment for the plaintiff. The defendant has appealed, and for him it is contended that the evidence is not sufficient, and Nedby v. Nedby 1 was referred to. For the plaintiff it was argued that the case was exactly on all fours with the facts In re Duke of Marlborough, Davis v. Whitehead, 2 and it was sought to apply the doctrine of a resulting trust to re-convey to the plaintiff, on the principle that the Statute of Frauds was not to be used to cover what would amount to a fraud, and the cases of Gould v. Innasitamby 3 and Ohlmus v. Ohlmus 4 were cited. Under section 2 of Ordinance No. 7 of 1840 no promise for effecting any transfer. ..of immovable property other than a lease at will or for any period not exceeding one month shall be of force or avail, unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the party making the same, or his agent, and notarially witnessed. The promise here to re-convey, if there was one, was therefore clearly void in law, and the plaintiff can only succeed by showing that there was such fraud in the transaction that she is entitled to give parol evidence to prove the promise, and establish that an implied trust had arisen in her favour to have the property re-conveyed to her. But the evidence to my mind shows clearly that the plaintiff was induced to sign the deed, not because of any promise to re-convey, but because she thought at the time it would enable her husband to borrow money for the purposes of future business on the security of the conveyance in his name, and that at the most, as her son says, the defendant-his father-said he did not mean to mortgage or sell, but only to show he was worth something, and would transfer the land whenever she wanted. The defendant might very well have said this perfectly bona fide, at a time when the parties were on good terms, with the full intention of keeping his word, but in 1 ( 1852 ) De Gex. and Smale 377. 2 ( 1894 ) 2 Chancery 138. 3 (1904) 9 N. L. R. 177. 4 (1906) 9 N. L. R. 183. 15 opinion this of itself would not be evidence of fraud on his part, nor could it be said that his saying so was a fraudulent inducement to the plaintiff to transfer. The inducement was, in fact, the prospect that he might be able to obtain money for business purposes to enable the parties to live. In my opinion, therefore, this case is to be distinguished from In re Duke of Marlborough, on the ground that in that case it was clear that the house in question had been the Duchess's separate property, but in the present case the evidence all points to the conclusion that the property was in reality the defendant's, but had been transferred into the plaintiff's name for an ulterior purpose, although she might have come to regard it as her own property, as in fact it legally became when conveyed to her by Babun Appu. Even, however, if it became the plaintiff's property in law by this conveyance, and she looked upon it as such, there is not here such a plain, clear, and deliberate fraud upon her, to use the words of Lord Justice James in Haigh v. Kaye, 1 as to induce this Court to say that a resulting trust had arisen in her favour to compel the defendant to re-convey. The Statute of Frauds has been used here by the defendant to keep property conveyed to him by the plaintiff it is true, but not obtained through fraud. It must be remembered that the English Statute of Frauds contains a section (section 8) which exempts from the necessity of proof by writing, imposed by section 7 on trusts created by parties, all trusts which arise or result by the implication or construction of law. An English Court might find, even without fraud being proved, that a resulting trust had arisen, to which effect might be given in spite of the Statute of Frauds; but I doubt if under our Statute a Ceylon Court would be. able to give effect to a trust to re-convey in the face of section 2, unless it was proved that the Statute had been used for the purpose of perpetrating a fraud. In the Duke of Marlborough's case the house in question was in fact the Duchess's, and was conveyed to him for the specific purpose of enabling the Duke to raise money on it, and with a distinct understanding and promise that when this object had been attained and the debt satisfied the property should be re-conveyed by the Duke. In Gould v. Innasitamby the defendant took the plaintiff's money and bought a property, taking the conveyance in his own name, and in Ohlmus v. Ohlmus the property had been bought with money belonging to the plaintiff's testator in the name of the defendant, his mother, it being proved in both cases that there was a promise the property should be held for and re-conveyed to the rightful owner. In both these cases the use of the Statute was made to cover plain, clear, and deliberate frauds by the defendants. In the present case it is to my mind clear that no such element has been proved, so as to induce us to hold that a resulting trust can be 1 7 L. R. Chan App. 474. 16 shown to have arisen. This Court in 246-District Court Jaffna, 7,409, on September 11, 1911,* in following Amerasekera v. Rajapakse, 1 had occasion to advert to the danger of extending the doctrine of implied and resulting trusts in this country further than it is possible to avoid. *D. C. Jaffna, 7,409. Bawa (with him Talaivasingham), for appellant. Tambyah, for respondent. September 11, 1911. Lascelles C.J. - The plaintiff in this action alleges that the defendant in July, 1907, bought from the Crown for himself and in trust for the plaintiff and others a portion of land; that the purchase money was contributed by plaintiff, the defendant, and the other purchasers in proportion to the shares in which it was agreed that the land should be divided amongst them; that the plaintiff contributed Rs. 32.50 for the purchase of one-sixth of the land; that after purchase by the defendant the land was divided amongst the contributors, and the plaintiff was given a lot of 28 lachams and 12 kulies within definite boundaries; that the plaintiff has been in possession of and has cleared this divided lot, but that the defendant, although he has executed transfers to the other contributors, has refused to make a transfer to the plaintiff. The prayer is for a declaration that the lot in question is property held by the defendant in trust for the plaintiff, and that the defendant may be ordered to execute a conveyance in favour of the plaintiff. In the alternative Rs. 500 is claimed as the reasonable value of the land. The defence is a complete denial of the averments in the plaint. The defendant says that he bought the land on his own account; that he entered into no agreement with the plaintiff; and that the plaintiff did pot pay him Rs. 32.50 for a one-sixth share of the land. It is admitted that the alleged agreement would be obnoxious to Ordinance No. 7 of 1840, and the substantial question is whether the defendant bought the land in such circumstances as would constitute him a trustee for the plaintiff as regards the share claimed. It is well settled that Courts in Ceylon will enforce the English rule of equity, that where property has been purchased by one person with money advanced for the purpose by another a trust results in favour of the latter. Ibrahim Saibo v. Oriental Bank Corporation (3 N. L. R. 148), Gould v. Inasitamby (9 N. L. R. 177 ) , Ohlmus v. Ohlmus (9 N. L. R. 188 ) . But it is essential, if this rule is not to become a means of evading the salutary provisions of the Ordinance No. 7 of 1840, that resulting trusts should not be admitted, unless the advance of the purchase money is proved by clear and unequivocal evidence. The English Courts of Equity in such cases have always insisted on very clear proof of the advance of the purchase money. Gascoigne v. Thwing and At ( 1 Veru 366 ) , Willis v. Willis (2 Atkyns 71 ) , may be referred to as illustrations of this principle. Applying this principle, it is obvious that the plaintiff's case breaks down in limine for want of that clear and unequivocal proof which the law requires. Assuming the existence of a combination to buy the land in question, what is the evidence that the plaintiff advanced Rs. 32.50 for a share of the property The plaintiff himself stated; " We (meaning the members of the combination) all paid money; I paid Rs. 32.50. The others paid according to their respective shares." This statement is denied by the defendant, and is not corroborated by any written receipt or deed. Except Vinasitamby, none of 1 ( 1911 ) 14 N. L. R. 110. 17 In my opinion, therefore, the appeal must be allowed, and the judgment of the District Court be set aside with costs of the appeal. Each party should, I think, bear his and her own costs in the District Court. Grenier J.- I agree that no fraud has been proved by the plaintiff whereby the deed in question was rendered void. The issue on which the parties went to trial was whether the plaintiff was fraudulently induced by the defendant to execute the deed. I think the plaintiff meant to impeach the deed as having been obtained from her by false representations on the part of the defendant; that he wanted it for a particular purpose, when he really intended to deal with the property as his own once the title was legally vested in him. The plaintiff has entirely failed to prove any fraudulent intention on the part of the defendant at the time of the execution of the deed or subsequently. The plaint contains no averment of any promise by the defendant to re-convey. All the plaintiff asks is that the deed be declared void, apparently on the ground of gross ingratitude on the part of the defendant in having taken a mistress to himself, and in misusing his power by the said deed, as is likely to reduce the plaintiff to poverty." Beyond making the vague assertion that the defendant " fraudulently induced the plaintiff to execute a deed in his favour," the plaint contains no particulars of the fraud charged against the defendant. The evidence of the plaintiff falls very far short of proving any fraud. On her own showing the defendant told her that he wanted the deed for security for his business, and that it was this representation that made her sign the deed. The representation was apparently a true one, but it must have been understood by the plaintiff in a wider sense than she now desires to admit. There is evidence to show that the plaintiff is more intelligent than the ordinary villager, and she must have known that her husband would adopt the usual means of giving security by mortgage or assignment. If he leased the property, she would be equally benefited with him so long as they lived together; and if he sold the property, the plaintiff would have no reason to charge her husband the other contributors have come forward to corroborate the plaintiff, and the value of Vinasitamby's evidence is not enhanced by the fact that although he states that he paid the defendant Rs. 81.25 for five-twelfths of the land, the consideration in his own deed appears as Rs. 250. Taking the most favourable view of the plaintiff's evidence, I do not think that it is possible to say more than that the balance of probabilities is in favour of the hypothesis that he did advance a portion of the purchase money. To apply the doctrine of resulting trusts in a case where the advance of the purchase money is a matter of conjecture rather than of strict proof would be contrary to all such principle. I would allow the appeal, and dismiss the action with costs here and in the Court below. Middleton J. -I entirely concur. 18 with fraud, because she conveyed the property to him with her eyes open, and with the knowledge that he, as owner, would be entitled to deal with the property as he liked. The plaintiff says that the defendant promised not to mortgage the property at any time, and said he would give back the land to her. But she admitted having herself mortgaged the land three or four times previously to enable the defendant to carry on his business. It is difficult to believe that the plaintiff would not have expected the defendant to do what she had done to help him in similar circumstances. Why did she not continue raising money for him by mortgage instead of transferring the property to him? The answer obviously is that she made a voluntary conveyance to him to save herself the trouble of raising money for him. There was no fraud practised on the plaintiff at all, and the District Judge was wrong in holding that there was sufficient evidence of fraud. I fail to see how the Duke of Marlborough's case 1 applies, and how the doctrine of a resulting trust can be extended to the facts and circumstances present in this case. The defendant was never m the position of a trustee for the plaintiff at any time. The transfer to him was an absolute one. He took no money-to make use of one illustration-from the plaintiff to buy property for her and then had the transfer made out in his favour. He has not been guilty of any fraud, either at the inception of the transaction or at any time subsequently. The cases of Gould v. Innasitamby 2 and Ohlmus v. Ohlmus 3 were decided on the broad principle, both of law and equity, that the Statute of Frauds cannot be made use of to perpetrate a fraud. The facts in those cases have no resemblance to the facts here. In my humble opinion those cases were rightly decided. I agree to the order proposed by my brother. Appeal allowed. 1 (1894) 2 Chancery 133. 2 (1904) 9 N. L. R . 177. 3 (1906) 9 N. L. R. 183. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1911/75.html