Amarasekera v. Somapala - SLR - 258, Vol 3 of 2003 [2003] LKCA 67; (2003) 3 Sri LR 258 (10 October 2003) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 2003 >> [2003] LKCA 67 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Amarasekera v. Somapala - SLR - 258, Vol 3 of 2003 [2003] LKCA 67; (2003) 3 Sri LR 258 (10 October 2003) 258 AMARASEKERA v SOMAPALA COURT OF APPEAL DISSANAYAKE, J. SOMAWANSA, J. C.A. 237/89 (F) D.C. KANDY1708/RE NOVEMBER 14, 2002 MARCH 19,2003 Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972 - Section 22 (2) - Deterioration of premises - Proof -Balance of Probability - Duty of a tenant to take due care of premises tenanted - Conduct of tenant. 259 Held: It is the duty of a tenant to take due care of the premises tenanted to him and to restore the same at the end of the tenancy to the landlord in the same condition in which it was delivered to him reasonable wear (ii) ft is the duty of the tenant to use the premises with the same degree of diligence that a owner would use his own property and to take equal amount of care in the preservation of the property. (iii) On a balance of probability the plaintiff-appellant has been successful in establishing that there is deterioration of the premises, and the conduct of the defendant-respondent does not measure upto the accepted standards, not only has he caused damage to the premises he has clearly neglected the care of the premises and allowed the premises to be deteriorated. APPEAL from the Judgment of the District Court of Kandy. Cases referred to: 1. J. O.de Zoysa v Victor de Silva - 73 NLR 576 2. Fonseka v Wijetunga - 1984 2 Sri LR 79 3. T.D.Wijeratne v T.J. Dschou - 77 NLR 157 A.K. Premadasa P.C. with C.E. de Silva for plaintiff-appellant Lakshman Perera for the defendant-respondent. Cur.adv. vult October 10, 2003 SOMAWANSA. J. The plaintiff-appellant instituted the instant action in the District Court of Kandy seeking ejectment of the defendant-respondent and those holding under him from the premises bearing assessment No. 297, Pilimatalawa morefully described in the schedule to the plaint, a sum of Rs. 15,000/- as damages caused to the premises. Further damages at the rate of Rs. 250/- per month as from 1982.06 until restoration of possession thereof. Ejectment 260 of the defendant-respondent was sought on the basis of 3 grounds, namely - 1) Reasonable requirement 2) Registration of a lease under section 29 of the Rent Act, No. 07 of 1972 3) Deterioration of the premises due to damage caused by the defendant-respondent. The defendant-respondent while denying the averments of the plaintiff-appellant claimed that he is a tenant protected by the Rent Act, No.07 of 1972, that no cause of action has arisen under the Rent Act to eject him, that notice to quit is bad in law and that he has deposited a sum of Rs. 1544.20 in excess as rent. In the premises he prayed for a dismissal of the plaintiff-appellant's action, a declaration that he is the lawful tenant of the premises described in the schedule to the plaint and as a claim in reconvention a sum of Rs. 1544.20 being excess rent deposited by him. At the commencement of the trial parties admitted the tenancy, the applicability of the Rent Act, No. 07 of 1972 to the premises in suit, execution of lease agreement No. 2318 dated 09.06.1977 for a period of 5 years, that the said period has lapsed, the receipt of the notice to quit pleaded in paragraph 05 of the plaint and that the plaintiff-appellant is the owner of the premises in suit. 17 issues were raised by the parties and at the conclusion of the trial the learned District Judge by his judgment dated 07.07.1989 held with the defendant-respondent and dismissed the plaintiff-appellant's action. It is from the said judgment that this appeal has been preferred. At the hearing of this appeal, counsel for the plaintiff-appellant confined his submission to the issue of deterioration of the premises only. To prove deterioration of the premises counsel for the plaintiff-appellant relied very heavily on the evidence given by the defendant-respondent. However the plaintiff-appellant himself called police constable Piyadasa to speak to the deterioration of the premises in suit. It is to be noted that on a complaint made to the Kadugannawa Police marked P4 after this action was instituted this witness had gone to 261 the premises in suit and made his observations as to the damage that had been caused to the said premises. The complaint to the police has been made on 04.06.83. The portion of the complaint relevant to the instant action is as follows: SRI LANKAN IMAGE Police Constable Piyadasa in his examination in chief says as follows: SRI LANKAN IMAGE Under cross examination the witness stated: SRI LANKAN IMAGE 262 The plaintiff-appellant too gave evidence and it transpired in his evidence that as he was out of the country the complaint marked P4 was made by his father. In re examination he went on to say: SRI LANKAN IMAGE It is to be seen that even in the application made by the plaintiff-appellant to the Rent Board marked V4 the plaintiff-appellant has claimed a sum of Rs. 25,000/- in respect of damage caused to the premises in suit. However the application was later withdrawn by the plaintiff-appellant. 263 The defendant-respondent himself under cross examination admitted that he did some structural alterations to the premises. He stated: SRI LANKAN IMAGE 264 SRI LANKAN IMAGE In section 22(2) the relevant provisions applicable the instant action is as follows: " the condition of the premises has in the opinion of the Court, deteriorated owing to acts committed by or to the neglect or default of the tenant or any such person". In the case of J.O. de Zoysa v Victor de Silva (1) Per Thamotheram, J. "The short point I have to consider in this case is whether a deliberate demolition of a boundary wall of a premises, without the consent of the landlord, for a private purpose of the tenant can amount to deterioration of the premises committed by the tenant under section 13(1) (d) of the Rent Restriction Act (Chapter 274). There is evidence that in addition to the damage to the boundary wall there was some damage to the premises by the demolition, such as the exposure of a drain pipe, erosion of the earth and the weakening of the portion of the boundary wall which also served as a retention wall. There is no doubt that a boundary wall is part of the premises. I cannot say that the learned Commissioner was wrong in holding on the above facts that there had been deterioration (made worse) of the premises by the demolition of the boundary wall". In Fonseka v Wijetunga (2) the head note reads: 265 " on the allegation of damage the Additional District Judge had accepted the evidence of the architect Peiris and found that damages has been caused to the floor of the shop, kitchen floor and southern wall of the shop by acts of the defendant. The southern wall was damaged by nine angle-iron spikes driven into it to hold timber racks. As a result the wall had a crack penetrating to the other side causing dislocation of the parapet gutter and rainwater to drain into the shop. The wall was thus rendered weak and liable to collapse". Held: "The two grounds on which a landlord can eject his tenant under section 12A(1)(d) of the Rent Restriction Act are 'wanton destruction, and, wilful damage.' The former means that there must be proof that the premises have suffered total or partial destruction. In other words they must be totally or partially destroyed. To be wanton, such destruction must be the result of carelessness for or indifference to the consequences or an unrestrained disregard of them. "Wilful damage" on the other hand means damage caused "intentionally" or "deliberately". There was no evidence that the respondent was guilty of wanton destruction. On the other hand the damage to the southern wall caused by driving in nine angle-iron spikes was a deliberate act and the resulting weakening of the wall making it liable to collapse is a direct consequence of the act of driving in the spikes. The kitchen floor was cracked and pitted by the splitting of firewood on it and the floor of the shop was damaged by the planting of posts to support heavy rafters. Therefore the respondent is guilty of causing wilful damage to the premises within the meaning of section 12A(1)(d) of the Rent Restriction Act. The damage must be serious and not trivial and what exactly is serious damage must be left to the discretion of the Judge. In the Instant case the damage to the southern wall taken with the damage to the kitchen floor and to the floor of the shop must be regarded as serious and justifies ejectment". 266 Per Samarakoon, C.J. " It is the duty of a tenant to take due care of the premises and 210 to restore the premises to the landlord at the end of the tenancy in the same condition in which it was delivered to him reasonable wear and tear excepted. (Wille's Principles of South African Law 7th Edition p.422). He must not inter alia cause damage to the premises (Voet 19.2.29). But this damage must be of a serious and not of a trivial nature. (Voet 19.2.18). What exactly is serious damges is a matter that "ought to be left to the discretion of a prudent and cautious Judge". (Voet 19.2.18.) The above are principles of Common Law applicable to the relationship of landlord and tenant and I think they are apposite for the construction of the provisions of section 12A(1)(c) of the Rent Restriction Act (Chapter 274). T. D. Wijeratne v T. J. Dschod (3) the head note reads: "The defendant who was a tenant of certain rent-controlled premises whose standard rent for a month did not exceed Rs.100, was running a restaurant business in the premises from 1942. The premises were kept closed from early 1965 till 1969 and were not physically occupied by the tenant or by anybody for over two years prior to the date of the institution of the present action in October 1967. The plaintiff (landlord) claimed the ejectment of the defendant on two grounds, viz (a) that the defendant had not been in physical occupation of the premises for over two years; (b) that the defendant had caused wilful damage to the premises within the meaning of section 12A(1)(d) of the Rent Restriction Act by keeping the premises unoccupied and closed;". It was held: (ii) "that there was sufficient evidence in the present case to establish that, by keeping the premises unoccupied and closed for a period of over two years, the defendant had caused wilful damage to the premises within the meaning of section 12A(1)(d) of the Rent Restriction Act and was, therefore, liable to be ejected on that ground. It is only in the perspective of landlord and tenant relationship that the question whether wilful damage has been caused should 267 be determined. Under Roman-Dutch law it is the duty of the tenant to use the leased premises with the same degree of diligence that a good and prudent householder would use in the preservation of his own property". Per Sharvananda, J.: "Under the Roman Dutch Law it is the duty of a tenant to use the leased premises with the same degree of diligence that a good and prudent householder or paterfamilias or farmer would use for his own property and to take an equal amount of care and preservation of the property. A tenant is accordingly liable to the landlord for ordinary gross negligence as well as for fraud - Voet 19.2.29. Voet states that the lessee will be fast bound to the lessor if he has neglected the care of homesteads, barns and water leadings and thus has allowed these things and others like them to be spoilt. As the "hirer" is responsible for that degree of diligence which all prudent men, that is which the generality of mankind, use in keeping their own goods of the same kind he is liable for such injuries as are caused by an omission of that diligence. Wille - Landlord and Tenant 1910 ed., page 423". It appears that the learned District Judge was of the view that damage if any caused to the premises in suit were of a trivial nature and that there wasn't an iota of evidence to establish that the defendant-respondent caused damage intentionally or deliberately. Furthermore, the learned District Judge refers to some damage caused to the premises while the defendant-respondent was running a wine stores which the defendant-respondent himself admitted under cross examination. However the learned District Judge has come to a finding that this was a matter that should have been considered at the time the lease marked VI was given to the defendant-respondent and as the plaintiff-appellant failed to take any steps at that stage, he is precluded from relying on such damage if any now. However I am unable to agree with this finding of the learned District Judge. For as admitted by the defendant-respondent the alteration he had done to the premises when he decided to run a wine stores discloses that not only did he cause damage to the walls by driving 50 or so 3 inch nails to the walls in order to hold racks but also caused damage to the floor of the premises in 268 the process of constructing a partition with bricks. There is also the evidence of planting a post to support the roof. It is conceded that these alterations were done prior to the signing of VI. Does it mean as observed by the teamed District Judge and also submitted by counsel for the defendant-respondent that the plaintiff-appellant is now precluded from agitating on these matters after the signing of VI. I would without hesitation agree with the counsel for the plaintiff-appellant that he could and he should succeed in his claim that the defendant-respondent has caused damage to the premises. It is to be noted as admitted by the defendant-respondent himself that before PC Piyadasa visited the premises he had removed the partition wall. However PC Piyadasa did observe and testified to the condition of the premises though he was unable to say whether the defendant-respondent was responsible for the same. However we have on the other hand, the admission of the defendant-respondent himself under cross examination. Be that as it may, it is the duty of a tenant to take due care of 300 the premises tenanted to him and to restore the same at the end of the tenancy to the Landlord in the same condition in which it was delivered to him reasonable wear and tear excepted. All in all he must not cause damage to the premises. On the other hand, it is the duty of the tenant to use the leased premises with the same degree of diligence that a owner would use his own property and to take equal amount of care in the preservation of the property. The conduct of the defendant-respondent in this case does not measure up to the said standards, not only has he caused damage to the premises he has clearly neglected the care of the premises leased/tenanted to him and allowed the premises to be deteriorated. It is to be noted that there is no evidence that the defendant-respondent requested the plaintiff-appellant to effect any repairs or on such a request the plaintiff-appellant failed and neglected to attend to any repairs specially those revealed in the evidence of PC Piyadasa. In any event, the fact that the defendant-respondent neglected the care of the property is specifically referred to in the police complaint P4 wherein the plaintiff-appellant's father has complained. SRI LANKAN IMAGE 269 SRI LANKAN IMAGE In the circumstances, it is my considered view that on a balance of probability the plaintiff-appellant has been successful in establishing that there is deterioration of the premises as a result of the above acts of the defendant-respondent. For the foregoing reasons, I would allow the appeal and set aside the judgment of the learned District Judge and direct him to enter judgment for the plaintiff-appellant as prayed for. The defendant-respondent will pay a sum of Rs.10,000/- as costs. The Registrar is directed to send the case record to the appropriate District Court forthwith. DISSANAYAKE, J. I agree. Appeal allowed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/2003/67.html