Carolis Et Al. v. Don Davith - NLR - 17 of 11 [1907] LKCA 13; (1907) 11 NLR 17 (16 December 1907) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1907 >> [1907] LKCA 13 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Carolis Et Al. v. Don Davith - NLR - 17 of 11 [1907] LKCA 13; (1907) 11 NLR 17 (16 December 1907) 17 Present : The Hon. Sir Joseph T. Hutchinson, Chief Justice, 1907: and Mr. Justice Wendt. December 16. CAROLIS et al. v. DON DAVITH. D. C, Colombo, 23,910. Donation-Reservation of life interest-Last will-Revocation for misconduct-Allegation of misconduct in the deed of revocation-Vesting of property-Right of heirs of deceased donee. A and N, husband and wife, by an instrument dated January 13, 1881, purporting to be a deed of gift, donated certain property to T, S, and G, who were " to be entitled to them from and after the death of the donors." The donors reserved to themselves a life J interest in the property, and also the right to revoke the gift for misconduct on the part of the donees. The deed was accepted by the donees. N died in 1881 and T (one of the donees) in 1888. A in 1892 purported to revoke the gift to T under the power reserved in the instrument, but did not allege any misconduct on the part of T or any of the donees. A by a subsequent deed gave the lands to S and G. In an action rei vindicatio by the heirs of T to recover their share of the property- Held , that the instrument of January 13, 1881, took effect as a deed of gift, and not as a will, and that it vested the property immediately in the donees. Held, also, that the deed of revocation was inoperative, as no misconduct was alleged therein on the part of the donees. A CTION rei vindicatio. Appeal from a judgment of the District Judge dismissing the plaintiffs' action. The facts sufficiently appear in the judgments. Sampayo, K.C. (with him Van Langenberg), for the plaintiffs, appellants. Bawa, Acting S.-G. (with him F. M. de Saram, W. H. Perera, and D. Obeyesekere), for the defendant, respondent. December 16, 1907. HUTCHINSON C.J.- The plaintiffs claim to be entitled to certain shares in the lands described in the plaint under a deed of gift, and the decision depends on the construction of that deed. Allis Vedarala and his wife Nonchy Hamy, being the owners of the lands, by their deed of gift dated January 18, 1881, after reciting that they are ill and old and that the time of death is uncertain, and that " we find it expedient that we should make over, during this time of our sound mind, memory, and understanding, some of our properties by way of gift to M. Thelenis (who is a son of a brother of me, the donor, Allis, and who is obedient and rendering immense help and assistance to us), and to my sons M. Suwaris Appu and M. Gregoris Appu," declare as follows: " Therefore and in consideration 18 1907. of the love, &c, we do hereby make over by way of gift to the December 16. said three persons" the properties thereinafter described. "These said shares of high and low lands are hereby made over C.J. by way of gift to the said Thelenis, Suwaris, and Gregoris, to be entitled to them from and after the death of us, the said donors; and we reserve to us the right to possess and enjoy the produce of the said lands during our lifetime; and if the said three donees or any of them shall behave disobediently to us, both the donors or to any of us, or if they or any of them shall misconduct themselves or himself during our lifetime, then any such person shall be disentitled to all the properties upon this deed of gift, and we the donors do hereby reserve to ourselves the right to deal with those properties in such a case as we like. Provided, however, that this gift shall be absolutely entitled to him or them who do not misbehave as aforesaid." The deed is in Sinhalese. The two translations filed in the case substantially agree as above, except that the second translation omits the words " In such a case " in the revocation clause; but I do not think the omission makes any difference in the sense; and the Chief Interpreter, whom I asked to read the original carefully, informs me that it is quite clear that the translation above given is correct, and that the original says that " then," i.e., in case of misconduct, the offending donees shall be disentitled, and we may deal with the property as we like. Nonchy Hamy died in March, 1881. Thelenis died in 1888, and the plaintiffs are his heirs. Allis Vedarala by deed of February 5, 1892, after reciting the deed of gift and the death of his wife, purported to revoke it under the power reserved in it, but without alleging any misconduct by any of the donees; and then by a subsequent deed gave the lands to Suwaris and Gregoris, through whom the defendant claims. Allis Vedarala remained in possession until his death in 1897. No issues seem to have been settled; and on the day of trial the defendant contended that under the deed of 1881 no share vested in Thelenis, because he predeceased one of the donors, and that the vesting was postponed until the death of the surviving donor. He also argued that the deed was really a will. The District Judge held that the deed was more of a testamentary disposition than a gift inter vivos; and also said, " The grantors expressly reserve to themselves the right of revocation, and provide for a forfeiture in case of misconduct," which, as I have said above, is a mistake. He said, however, that in the view which he took of the deed, viz., that it was only to take effect on the death of the donors, it was unnecessary to discuss the validity of the deed of revocation. And he dismissed the action. The deed of gift of 1881 was attested by a notary, who certifies on it that it was drawn, read over, and explained by him to the donors and to the donees, and that the duplicate and the "original were duly stamped. It purports to be a " deed of gift "; to dispose 19 of some only of the donor's property; to be an immediate gift with a life interest reserved to the donors; and to be revocable only December 16. in case of misconduct of the donees. And it was prepared by a professional man, who knew .the difference between a deed and a C.J. will, and that a will ought to dispose of all the testator's property, and that a will is revocable. I can see no ground for holding it to be a will. In my opinion it was a deed of gift, vesting the property immediately in the donees, with the reservation, to the donors of a life interest and of a power to revoke in an event which did not occur; and the deed of February 5, 1892, was ineffectual to revoke it. I hold accordingly that the judgment under appeal should be set aside, and judgment given declaring the plaintiffs entitled to the shares claimed. The parties agreed at the trial that the damages should be fixed at Rs. 50 per annum; and in accordance with that agreement the plaintiffs should also have judgment for damages at the rate of Rs. 50 per annum from March, 1904, which is the date from which the plaintiffs allege that the defendant has kept them out of possession, and also for the costs of the action and of this appeal. WENDT J.- The instrument we have to construe is in form a deed inter vivos and not a will. It is stamped and numbered as a deed and not as a will, and it is registered (a will being incapable of registration). Further, it calls itself a deed of gift, and bears on the face of it an acceptance by the donees, a formality essential to the completion of a donation, but foreign to the nature of a will. All these circumstances indicate that the instrument was to have some operation in prcesenti. Coming to the terms of the instrument, there are words of immediate conveyance (" We do hereby make over by way of gift ")-a circumstance which distinguishes this case from some of those cited to us at the argument. The right to possess for their lives and the life of the survivor of them is reserved to the donors, and it is provided that in the event of misconduct of one or more of the donees, he or they shall become disentitled to the benefit of the gift, and the donors or the survivor of them shall be entitled to dispose of the properties as they or he shall please, " provided, however, that the gift shall be absolutely entitled to him or them who do not misbehave as aforesaid." I agree in thinking that the only power of revocation reserved was the power to revoke for misconduct, and misconduct was not alleged in the deed of revocation. In the absence of misconduct the words I have just quoted appear to make the donees' title absolute. In the view I have taken it is unnecessary to decide another important question which was argued, viz., whether the power of revocation could be exercised after the death of the donee Thelenis. I agree that the appeal should be allowed, and plaintiffs given judgment as suggested by the Chief Justice. Appeal allowed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1907/13.html