Sameen and Another v. Ceylon Hotels Ltd. - SLR - 81, Vol 1 of 1989 [1988] LKCA 47; (1989) 1 Sri LR 81 (27 July 1988) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1988 >> [1988] LKCA 47 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Sameen and Another v. Ceylon Hotels Ltd. - SLR - 81, Vol 1 of 1989 [1988] LKCA 47; (1989) 1 Sri LR 81 (27 July 1988) 81 SAMEEN AND ANOTHER v. CEYLON HOTELS LTD. COURT OF APPEAL DHEERARATNE. J. (PRESIDENT C/A) and PALAKIDNAR, J. C.A. 567/79 (F) DC. COLOMBO 3030/RE MAY 3. 4, 5, and 6, 1988. Landlord and tenant - Description of agreement as a licence - Ingredients of a tenancy - Requirements of licence. A contract of tenancy is featured by an object to let and hire, ascertained premises and fixed rent. In the last resort it-is a question of intention. The mere description of an agreement as a licence will not make it one. Was only a personal privilege intended ? The fact that three was no exclusiveness of possession of the area occupied -in that the owner could change its location the prohibition against assignment of the benefits without written consent, the provision for termination at 24 hours notice for any breach of conditions in the agreement, the stringent nature of the control and supervision implied in the provision and the limited duration of the occupancy, show that the occupancy was of a personal nature and a licence. 82 Cases referred to : Addis Combo Estates Ltd v Crabbe [1957] 3 Ail E R 563 Booker v Palmer [1942] 2All ER 676 Errington v Errington and Woods [1952] KB 290 Street v Mountford [ 1 9P5] 2 All E R 289 Radaich v Smith 101 C.L.R (Australia) 209, 218 Hadjihueas v Crean 1 987 3 A E F 1008 Sivagnanda v Bishop of Kandy 55 NLR 130 Ratnam v. Perera 64-NLR 1 98. APPEAL from judgment of the District Court of Colombo. Dr. H.W. Jayewardene, Q.C. with Ifthikar Hussain. Marsha Gunasekera and Miss Keenawinna for Appellants. H.L de Silva, P.C, with G. Dayasiri and L.N. de Silva for Respondents. Cur. adv. vult. July 27, 1988 PALAKIDNAR. J. The two Plaintiffs-Appellants entered into an agreement with the Defendant Hotel to display and sell gems, jewellery and curios to customers and visitors of the Hotel in a defined area shown as premises number 7 in the sketch marked PT at the trial. The Plaintiffs were to pay licence fees of Rs. 3500/- a month. The tenure of such business was two years commencing from 1-9-76. On 28-9-78 after the expiry of the two year term the Plaintiffs instituted this action for a declaration that the agreement was of no force or avail in law and a further declaration that they were tenants of the Defendant Hotel. The only issue raised at the trial was ' whether the Plaintiffs were tenants of the premises in suit ?' The learned trail Judge after a careful evaluation of the evidence led has held that the Plaintiffs were not tenants. He observed that the Plaintiffs did not show that the premises were governed by the Rent Act. The Plaintiffs in asking for a declaration that the agreement marked P2 was of no force or avail in law on the footing that it violates section 2 of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance have according to the finding of the learned trial Judge become trespassers because an informal lease cannot create a monthly tenancy unless it is notarially executed. 83 It was the contention of the Counsel for the Appellants that although the agreement termed the occupation as a licence and the rent licensee fees the features of the actual relationship that subsisted between the Plaintiffs and the Defendant were that of landlord and tenant as governed by the Roman Dutch Law of locatio conduct. It was featured by .an object to let and hire, ascertained premises and fixed rent. In this background authorities that have drawn the distinction between licensees and tenants were submitted. The case of Addis Combo Estates Ltd. v. Crabbe (1) was considered: It enunciated the principle that the relationship was determined by law and not by .description given by the parties. The view of Lord Green M.R. in Booker v. Palmer (2) referred to by the learned trial Judge was that the question whether or not the. parties to an. agreement intend to create as between themselves the relationship of landlord and tenant must in the last resort be a question of intention. The relevant view of Denning C.J. in Errington v. Errington and Woods (3) was also urged by Counsel at the argument in appeal. Although a person who is let into exclusive possession is prima facie considered to be a tenant nevertheless he will not be held to be so if the circumstances negative any intention to create a tenancy. Words alone may not suffice. Parties cannot form a tenancy into a licence by merely by calling it one. But if the circumstances and conduct of the parties show that all that was intended was the occupier should be granted a personal privilege with no interest in land he will be held to be a licensee only. " The exclusive possession of premises number 7 in sketch P1 was strongly relied on by Appellants' Counsel as a feature of the tenancy agreement. But the clauses in the agreement reveal aspects which erode into the exclusive-ness, of the possession Itself. The Plaintiffs could display items which were referred to in clause 1 2 and only during hours named by the Company. Clause 18 permits a control of the staff by the Defendant. There is a further right given to the Defendant to move the Plaintiffs business to any other part of the shopping area.... 84 The object of letting and hiring the premises cannot be inferred from the agreement. The agreement shows that the object was to provide amenities and facilities to customers and visitors, to the Hotel. The right granted is a purely personal one. There is a prohibition in the agreement against assigning the entire benefits or any one of them -under clause 5 without the previous consent in writing by the-Defendant. The agreement itself was terminable by the Defendant-Company at twenty four hours' notice for any breach (clause 6) of a condition in which there was agreement between the parties. In the case of Street v. Mountford (4) it was held that a tenancy arose whenever there was a grant of exclusive possession for a fixed periodic term at a stated rent unless special circumstances existed which negatived a presumption of tenancy. Vide Lord Templeman's speech. He quoted Lord Green's view referred to earlier in this judgment. He also referred to Lord Denning's view in Ernngton v. Ernngton also quoted earlier in this judgment. It emphasised that there should be exceptional circumstances to negative a tenancy clearly inferred from the express agreement between the parties. In Radaich v. Smith (5) it was held by Taylor, J. at page 218 that the test of exclusive possession in deciding a tenancy could give rise to misgivings because it may not correspond to realities - In the same judgment Windayer, J. at page 222 considered the distinction by stating that the fundamental right which a tenant has that distinguishes him from the position of a licensee is an interest in land and distinct from a personal permission to enter the premises and use it for some stipulated purpose. In the recent case of Hadjiloueas v. Crean (6) these authorities have been reviewed with special reference to Lord Templeman's views in Street v Mountford {Supra). Lord Justice Mustill quoted thus " Exclusive possession is of first importance in considering whether an occupier is a tenant, exclusive possession is hot decisive because an occupier who enjoys exclusive possession is not necessarily a tenant. " - page. 1020.' 85 Local cases pertaining, to the subject under discussion were also cited by Counsel for the Appellants. In the case of Sivagnanda v. Bishop of Kandy (7) the position of the claim of tenancy by the occupancy of a .prospective purchaser of the land was examined and it was held based on the facts that he was a licensee. In the case of Ratnam v. Perera (8) it was held that mere use of words in an agreement could not determine the nature and quality of the rights. In the present ease the conclusions of the trial Judge in the judgment appealed from are unexceptionable. He has considered the object of the agreement and in our view a parallel can be drawn to the front house of a theatre or a stall in a railway station where refreshments are served to the facilities that the Defendant sought to provide its customers and visitors. The stringent nature of the control and supervision implied in the provisions of the agreement makes it clear that the occupancy of the Plaintiffs was of a personal nature which could not be assigned to anyone and limited in duration. It certainly did not convey any interest in the land. Therefore the conclusion arrived at by the learned trial Judge is in our view correct and he has answered the issue in accordance with the law and the facts of this case. We see no reason to interfere with the decision of the learned Judge in the circumstances and dismiss the appeal with costs fixed at Rs. 525. DHEERARATNE, J, - I agree Appeal dismissed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1988/47.html