Beebe v. Pitche - NLR - 277 of 26 [1924] LKCA 60; (1924) 26 NLR 277 (8 September 1924) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1924 >> [1924] LKCA 60 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Beebe v. Pitche - NLR - 277 of 26 [1924] LKCA 60; (1924) 26 NLR 277 (8 September 1924) 277 Present: Jayewardene A.J . 155- C. R. Gampola , 6,257. Muslim law - Wife's right to maggar- Vesting of right - Consummation of marriage - Subsequent adultery - Desertion - Husband's claim for double the value of maggar- Muhammadan code., ss. 80-86. Under Muslim law when a marriage has been consummated, the wife's right to maggar is confirmed, and is not lost by her subsequent apostasy or adultery. Sections 80-86 of the Code deal with the subject of divorce by khula, i.e., divorce at the instance of the wife. If in Ceylon a husband grants his wife such a divorce, he would be entitled to demand from her double the value of the maggar. She would, however; have the right to set off against it the maggar due to her. If the husband can prove before a Court of competent jurisdiction that his wife persists in her refusal to be reconciled to him, he can claim to have restored to him double the value of the maggar without proving that all the requirements of sections 80-84 have been complied with. A divorce must precede or accompany the liability to restore double the value of the maggar under section 86. APPEAL from a judgment of the Commissioner of Requests, Gampola. The plaintiff, the wife of a Muslim, sued her husband for the recovery of a sum of Rs. 280.40, of which a sum of Rs. 179.40 represented maggar and the balance kaicooly. Her right to Kaicooly was admitted, but the husband contested his liability to pay the maggar, on the ground that the plaintiff separated herself and left his house without any reason, although he was willing to live with her. In consequence of such desertion, he claimed to be entitled to recover double the value of the maggar according to the law prevailing among the Muslims of Ceylon. At the trial no evidence was led, but it was admitted on behalf of the wife that she refused to live with the defendant. The Commissioner of Requests held that the facts relied upon by the defendant did not constitute a defence to the plaintiff's claim for maggar. J. S. Jayewardene, for defendant, appellant. Garvin, for plaintiff, respondent. September 8, 1924. Jayewardene A.J .- This is an action between Muslim parties in which the question, whether a wife, who refuses to live with her husband who is prepared to receive her, is entitled to claim her maggar, arises 278 for decision. In this case the wife claimed a sum of Rs. 280.40 from her husband, Rs. 179.40 as maggar and the balance Rs. 101. as kaicooly. Her right to the kaicooly is admitted; but the husband contests his liability to pay the maggar, on the ground that the plaintiff separated herself and left his house without any cause or reason, whatsoever, although he was and is willing to live with her; and in consequence of such desertion, he not only denied his liability to pay the maggar, but he also claimed to be entitled to recover double the value of the maggar according to the customs and laws prevailing among the Muslims in Ceylon. In support of his claim. to double the value of the maggar, reliance is placed on section. 86 of the Muhammadan Code of 1806, which declares a wife liable to pay double the value of the maggar, if she persists in her refusal to be reconciled to her husband. At the trial no evidence was led, but it was admitted on behalf of the wife that she refused to live with the defendant. The learned Commissioner after hearing argument held that the facts relied on by the defendant did not constitute a defence to the plaintiff's claim for maggar. He based his decision on the judgment of this Court in Pathumma v. Cassim [ 1 (1919) 21 N. L. R. 221.]. As regards the claim for double the value of the maggar, he said: - " The provisions of the Muhammadan Code do not appear to have been followed, and besides they are hedged in with so many conditions that to take advantage of them, defendant must prove that all the necessary steps to bring about a settlement have been taken. " He accordingly held the plaintiff entitled to the maggar. The judgment of the learned Commissioner is, in my opinion, right, although I do not agree with the reasons given by him for holding that Section 86 has no application. In Pathumma v. Cassim (supra), the plaintiff-the wife-claimed both maggar and kaicooly. There, too, the husband raised the defence that, as his wife had wilfully separated herself from him and refused to return to him, she had forfeited her right. But counsel for the husband conceded that so far as the maggar was concerned, the wilful separation and refusal to return did not constitute a defence to her claim, and the Court held that kaicooly was governed by the same principles as maggar, and decreed the wife's claims. The correctness of this admission is contested in the present case. Strictly speaking, that case cannot be regarded as an authority for the proposition that maggar can be claimed by a wife in the circumstances stated above, as it proceeds on an admission made by 279 counsel. But counsel's admission seems to be quite correct according to Muhammadan Law. Maggar or Maskawien as it is sometimes called in the Muhammadan Code (see sections 76, 77, and 86) is the same as the " mahr " of the Muhammadan Law. In English it is termed " dower." Maggar, mahr, or dower has been denned to be " the property which it is incumbent on a husband, either) by reason of its being in the contract of marriage or by virtue of the contract itself, to give in exchange for the usufruct of the wife." It is not the exchange or consideration given by the man to the woman for entering into the contract; but an effect of the contract imposed by the law on the husband as a token of respect of its object-woman. The usufruct of the wife being another of its effects, one of these (dower) is said to be exchanged for the other (usufruct), and marriage becomes, in the language of the law, a contract of exchange, though, in popular parlance, it is only a contract of union. The right to maggar is in danger of being lost altogether by the apostasy of the wife, or her kissing her husband's son with desire, but this danger is removed by consummation which is an actual delivery of the exchange for the maggar. Hence maggar is said to be confirmed and made binding by consummation, or by its substitute a valid retirement (according to the Hanafi doctrine), or by death which by terminating the marriage puts an end to all the contingencies to which it is exposed. Bailie's Digest of Muhammadan Law, pp. 91, 92; Vanderstraaten's Reports (1869-71), 196; Umma v. Marikar [ 1 (1912) 15 N. L. R. 316.]. The maggar generally remains in the hands of the husband and under his control and management until it is demanded from him by the wife, and it forms a settlement intended for her exclusive benefit. It is payable to her heirs at her death, and forms a first charge on her husband's property. She is entitled to it, if her husband divorces her, and it may be demanded by her at any time, even during the subsistence of the marriage, when the dower is " prompt " and not " deferred." Amir Ali's Muhammadan Law, vol. II., ch. 12 sec. 2, p. 503; Vanderstraaten's Reports, 162. When dower or maggar has once been confirmed or perfected as stated above, the wife does not lose her right to it by any conduct on her part. Bailie in his Digest of the Muhammadan Law, p. 101 thus states the law on the subject: - " When dower has once been perfected, it does not drop, though a separation should afterwards take place for a cause proceeding from the wife as, for instance, her apostatizing or consenting to the son of her husband, after he had consummated or retired with her; but before dower is perfected, the whole fails by reason of any separation proceeding from the wife." 280 And Amir Ali, vol. I., at p. 390, says: - When the right to the dower has once vested in the woman, it is not defeated or lost by any conduct on her part. For example, when the marriage has been consummated, (according to the Sunnis as well as the Shiahs), or a valid retirement has taken place (according to the Hanafis), the woman's right to her dower is not lost by her subsequent apostasy or adultery; but it would be otherwise, if the apostasy or misconduct occurred before the right vested, in her. In such a case, the entire dower would fall to the ground. The right once vested is not lost, even if the woman were to murder her husband. Other writers on Muhammadan law lay down the law in similar terms. Tyabji's Muhammadan. Law, p. 115. The passages I have cited negative the right of a husband to refuse his wife her maggar because of her separation from him and her unreasonable refusal to live with him. In fact, the passage from Bailie deals with the very case that has arisen here. I would, therefore, hold that the wife refusal to live with the defendant does not justify him in. refusing to pay her the maggar. But in such a case, it is argued that under the Muhammadan Code, the wife becomes liable to pay to the husband double the value of the maggar. It is said that the Muhammadan Code, sections 80-86, confer on the husband such a right. It is necessary, therefore, to ascertain the circumstances to which sections 85 and 86 apply. Having considered sections 80 to 86 of the Code and the commentaries on the Muhammadan Law, it seems to me that section 86 applies to cases where the wife obtains a divorce from the husband. Under Muhammadan Law there are three kinds of divorce which have specific names: - (a) " When the dissolution of the marriage tie proceeds from the husband, it is called "talak " or " Tollek." (b) When it takes place at the instance of the wife, it is called " khula." (c) When it is by mutual consent, it is called "mubarat." Amir Ali, vol. II., ch. 14, pp. 567-568. Divorce by the husband by giving talak or letters of divorce is dealt with in sections 87 to 90 of our Muhammadan Code. Sections 80 to 86, in my opinion, refer to a divorce at the instance of the wife, or khula; and section 79 to divorce by the mutual consent of both, or mubarat. Sections 80 to 86 lay down the procedure to be adopted when a husband and his wife disagree and live in continued dissensions with one another and wish to be divorced. In such a case, under section 81, the priest and the commandants on both sides are to inquire into the matter and try to reconcile the parties. If the wife 281 Is opposed to a reconciliation, and the husband desires a divorce, parties are to be separated, each living with his or her relations (section 82). Then a meeting of the priests and the officers of the company is to be convened for the investigation of the matter in dispute a second time, and an attempt made to reconcile the parties (sections 83 and 84). If the parties cannot be reconciled even then, the matter must be brought before the sitting Magistrate (section 85). If the wife should still oppose the reconciliation, she must pay to the husband twice the value of the maggar (section 86), and then, I presume, she obtains the divorce, which the parties wished for and which is referred to in section 80. A reference to the works on Muhammadan Law shows that section 80 gives the grounds for which a khula -divorce may be obtained. Bailie (p. 30) cites the following passage from the " Fatawa Alamgiri " which follows the Hedaya: - " When married parties disagree and are apprehensive that they cannot observe the bounds prescribed by Almighty God (or, in other words, perform the duties incumbent on them by the marriage relation), there is no objection to the woman ransoming herself from her husband with property, in consideration of which he is to give her a khula; and when they have done this, one irrevocable separation or divorce takes place, and she is liable for the property." See Amir Ali's vol. II. , ch. 14, p. 567, where he observes that " where the wife owing to her aversion to the husband, or her unwillingness to fulfil the conjugal duties, is desirous of obtaining a divorce, she may obtain a release from the marital contract, by giving up either her settled dower (maggar) or some other property. Such a divorce is consequently called khula." For a khula to be effective, particular forms have to be observed. Amir Ali (p. 568,. et seq.) gives the procedures adopted in different countries, and they appear to vary. Thus in some countries, " in case of habitual discord between husband and wife, an impartial woman, called hakima, is selected by the Hakim-ush-shar'a (or Kazi) to try and effect a reconciliation between them "; in others, " the Kazi has the right to proceed himself to effect the reconciliation." " Among the Shaf'eis (whose principles apply in Ceylon) and Hanafis, in countries where the Islamic law is in force, the Kazi, in case of a disagreement between husband and wife, appoints two females-one on the woman's behalf the other on the husband's, to arbitrate between them, and to endeavor to bring about a reconciliation." " If the cause of dissension continue, or if the attempts to reconcile the parties are unavailing, then they are allowed to dissolve their marriage by any of the procedures indicated above." According to another system all cases of this kind must be submitted to the Judge for a divorce. The Muhammadan Code has laid down 282 a procedure of its own, and the attempts at reconciliation must be made by the priests, the commandants, and the officers of the company, and lastly by the Judge himself. When a wife obtains a divorce in this way, that is by khula, the wife has to pay compensation to the husband which is generally the value of the maggar if she has received it, or if she has not received it, she forfeits her right to it. Although compensation in excess of the maggar is considered to be harch and improper, it is not illegal; the amount is usually fixed by mutual agreement, and section 86, in my opinion, fixes the compensation payable by wife at double the value of the maggar. It proceeds on the assumption that maggar has already been paid to the wife, as the word used is " restore." It seems to me clear from what I have stated above that sections 80-86 deal with the subject of divorce by khula, and if, in Ceylon, a husband grants his wife such a release from her matrimonial tie, he would be entitled to demand from her double the value of the maggar. She would, however, be entitled to set off against it the maggar due to her. In this case the learned Commissioner seems to think that owing to the failure of the husband to follow all the provisions of sections 80-85 and fulfil the conditions therein, he is disentitled to exact double the value of the maggar under section 86. At the present time it is impossible to follow the provisions of these sections, for it is not possible to convene a meeting of " priests," " commandants," and " officers of companies," as required by those sections, to settle the difference of Muslim spouses. Provisions similar to these appear in other sections of the Code dealing with matrimonial affairs, but they are regarded as having fallen into disuse and become obsolete, as the machinery for their observance no longer exists. See Nell's Muhammadan Laws of Ceylon, pp. 42 and 43,. and the judgment of De Sampayo J. in Rabbia Umma v. Saibu [ 1 (1914) N . L. R. 338 (341).]. But, if any of these sections confer a right on any person, that right can be enforced through the machinery now available. Thus it was held in Petchi Umma v. Modelyatchy [ 2 (1850) 3 Lor 251.] that in the absence since British rule of an official corresponding to the " commandant," the recording of talak under section 90 was no longer required, and the fact of divorce might be proved by oral evidence. It may be that in view of section 85 a " khula divorce " must be granted or confirmed by a Judge. That can be done even at the present day. For it has been held that " the sitting Magistrate " or " competent Judge " of the Court corresponds to the District Judge of the present day: Agesha Umma v. Abdul Carim [ 3 (1880) 4 S. C. C. 13 (14). ]. In my opinion, therefore, if a husband can prove to the satisfaction of a Judge that his wife persists in her refusal to be reconciled to him, he can claim, to have restored to him double the value of the maggar without 283 proving that all the requirements of sections 80 to 84 have been complied with. In the present case, the husband has claimed double the value of the maggar, and I think he is entitled to have his right inquired into in the light of what. I have stated above, provided the Court has jurisdiction to do so. The liability of the wife to pay the value of the maggar is, as pointed out above, based on the fact that the marriage is dissolved by a Khula divorce, and such a divorce must, in my opinion, precede or accompany the liability to restore double the value of the maggar under section 86. In an action to enforce the provisions of section 86, therefore, the Court has to inquire into a matrimonial matter, that is, the dissolution of the marriage. But Courts of Requests have no jurisdiction to take cognizance of matrimonial matters (section 77, Courts Ordinance); District Courts alone have the right to do so (section 64, Courts Ordinance). The defendant's claim cannot consequently be tried in the present action. I would accordingly dismiss the appeal, with costs. Appeal dismissed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1924/60.html