IS 




OJortifU Slam ^rlionl Slibratg 



3 1924 071 251 064 



1 


r y y ^ Cornell University 

KX^^'JM Library 


X 





The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924071251064 



REPORTS 

OF 

IMPORTANT CASES 

Heard and Determined 

BY THE 

SUPREME COURT OF CEYLOIN^, 

DURING THE TEAKS 

1860, 1861 AND 1862. 

With an Appendix containing cases decided during that period 

by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council on 

appeal from the Supreme Court of Ceylon. 

BY 

P. RAMA-NATHAN, 

ADVOCATE. 



COLOMBO: 

PUBLISHED BY THE "CEYLON TIMES PRESS COMPANY (LIMITED.) 

1880. ' 



NOTE, 

In my preface to the reports for 1820—33, 1 stated that if the judg- 
ments of the Supreme Court for the thirty years comprised in the following 
periods, viz, — 

1820—1833 

1847—1855 

1860—1868, 

could be published, the profession would have a complete series of reports 

fi-om 1820—1874. 

In 1877, I published the reports for 1820—33. 

Since then I have not been able to work with effect on the scheme I 
had set before myself, as I had to give my prior attention to the publication 
of the reports for 1877, and of the Supreme Court Circular for 1878 and 
part of that Circular for 1879. 

The volume I now issue comprises the reports for the thi'ee years 
ending 1862. The reports for 1861 and 1862 have never been printed, 
though the reports for 1860 were partially, in the pages of the Legal 
Miscellany. I need not say that the Legal Miscellany went out of print 
many years ago. 

P. kama-nIthan. 

Colombo, 

May, 1880. 



JUDGES DURING THE PERIOD EMBRACED IN THIS VOLUME. 



Chief Justices. 
The Honorable Paul Ivy Sterling (acting.) 
The Honorable Sir Edwaed S. Creasy. 

Puisne Justices. 

The Honorable Richard F. Morgan {acting.) 
The Honorable George Lawson {acting.) 
The Honorable Paul Ivy Sterling. 
The Honorable Christopher Temple. 
The Honorable Henry B. Thomson {acting.) 



iisriDJBx:. 



Administrators. ^*''^^' 

See Immovable property. 
Agreement. 

See Contract. 

Deed of arrangement. 

Promissory Note. 

Aliens. 

Their right to hold lands and to sue. 

D. C, Negombo, 23,754 ... ... ... ... 6 

Appeal. 

1. — Interest of Appellant — Writ of sequestration — Practice — R. and 
0. cl. 15 sec. 1. 

In an action against the owner of two vessels and their respective 
masters, an order was made affecting the 1st and 2nd defendants, who 
were reported not to be found in the District. The 3rd defendant 
appealed against this order. 

Held, that as he was a party to the suit and, as master of the 
ship, was bound to maintain the interests of the owner, it was open 
to him, the 3rd defendant, to appeal against the order affecting the 1st and 
2nd defendants. 

D. C, Colombo, 26,952 ... ... ... ... 30 

2. — Appeal — Notice of tender of security — R. and 0. p. 83, cl. 3. 

An appellant need not give notice of tender of security in the 

ordinary case falling within cl. 3 of sec. viii. of E. and. O. p. 83, but in 

the special cases provided for by the clauses 7 and 8, such notice is 

essential. 

It is however desirable that notice be given in all cases. 

D. C, Kalutara, 17,418 .. ... ... ... 129 

3. — Appeal petition — False, scandalous and defamatory/ matter — Fro- 
fessional misconduct of proctor — Dtity of judge as to recording 
evidence. 
A proctor who prefers against a judge the charge of unfairly sup- 
pressing evidence, on grounds which are slight and frivolous, is guilty of 
gross tinprofessional conduct. 

And the suitor, in whose petition of appeal the false and scandalouB 
charges were laid, is guilty of contempt of the Supreme Court. 



A judge is not bound to write down all that is asked by 

advocates and all tbat is said by witnesses. His duty is to take down 
only that which .is material and relevant. 

In re Dharmaratne ... ••• ••• ••• 134 

4. — Appeal petition — Scandalous and defamatory matter. 

The statement in the petition of appeal that " the appellant cannot 
conceive how the Disti-ict Court came to state as a fact that which is 
well-known to be untrue," is scandalous and defamatory in every sense. 

The Registrar was accordingly ordered to expunge it from the. 
petition of appeal. 

D. C, Kandy, 33,585 ... ... ... ... 139 

See Court of Requests. 

Arbitration. 

Award — Irregularity of proceeding — Want of reasonable notice of 
sitting of arbitrator. 

D. C, Kandy, 32,402 ... ... ... ... 2S 

Arrack. 

1. — Sale of, without license — Evidence of permission. 

The fact of arrack having been sold in the accused's house by his 
son in the absence of the accused, is not evidence of permission. 

P. C, Kandy, 51,079 ... ... ... _ ... 91 

2. — Innocent and unconscious possession— cl. 32 of Ordinance No. 10 
0/1844. 

" Possession" in the first line of clause 32 of Ordinance No. 10 of 
1844 does not include innocent and unconscious possession. 

P. C, KegaUe, 16,940 ... ... ... ... 98 

Arrest for debt. 

See Mesne profits. 
Arrest, frivolous or Vexatious. 

See Frivolous oe Vexatious Arrest. 
Brute animal. 

Injury hy — Proof of scienter — Liability of owner. 

On the question of liability of the owner of a brute animal for 
injuries done, the English Law difEers from the Eoman Dutch law. 

The Eoman Dutch Law does not requii'e the man who has been 
injured to prove that the owner knew the animal's mischievous habits. 

Where the injury done was not caused by mere accident or provoked 
by the wrongful act of the injured party or broiight about immediately 
by the wilful act of a third person, the owner is always liable. 

The degrees of liability vary according to the nature and habits 
of the animal, and the circumstance* under which the injury was 
inflicted. 



Where the animal is not of a genus naturally savage, and where 
the individual animal waa not of mischievous habits, the owner's -liability 
is limited to the value of the animal which did the injury. 

But if the animal were of a savage genus, or if, though not of a 
savage genus, it were of mischievous habits, whether the owner knew 
those habits or not, the owner must make full compensation for the 
injury done by the animal, and cannot limit the damages to be assessed 
against him by the amount of the animal's value. 

C. R., Jaffna, 25,869 ... ... ... ... 68 

Conjugal Rights. 

See Husband akd "Wife. 
Contempt of Court. 

1. — Procedure in. 

D. C, Kandy, 26,799 ... ... ... ... 27 

2. — Resistance to process. 

A writ issued directing the Fiscal to place the plaintiff in pos- 
session of a certain.house. Defendant and his son, who was not a party 
to the suit, resisted the execution of the process. 

Held, that both father and son were rightly convicted. 

D. C, Galle, 9,516 ... ... ... ... 196 

See Appeal, 3. 
Contract. 

1. — Illegal consideration — Money lent on a pawn in breach of Ordi- 
nance JSTo. 17 0/1844, cl. 25 [Ordinance 16 of 1865, cl. 66.] 

A received from B. by way of pledge certain jewels, without, 
however, attending to the statutory enactments in that behalf made. In 
an action to recover the loan advanced. 

Held, that A was not entitled to maintain his suit, aa the contract 
was illegal, 

C. E., Colombo, 37,754 .. ... ... _ ... 18 

2. — Contract to retail arrach — Interest in land — Ordinance No. 17 of 

1840 cl. 2. 
A contract by which a renter sells to a person the right to retail 
arrack in any tavern is not one which comes within the Ordinance No. 7 
of 1840, cl. 2. 

D. C, GaUe, 18,838 ... ... 29 

Costs. 

1,-r-Costs of intervenients. 

A decree non-suiting plaintiff with costs subjects him to pay the 
costs of the defendants, but not ordinarily of "intervenients who come 
into court of their own accord. 

D. C, Galle, 17,600 ... ... ... ... 36 

See MisNB profits, 1. 



Courts of Requests. 

1. — Claims of preference and concurrence. 

Claims of preference and concurrence should be decided summarily 
by the Court which issues the writ of execution under which the claims 
are made. Parties should not be referred to a new suit, unless they are 
at issue upon material allegations, which cannot be conveniently tried 
and determined in the original cause. 

0. E., Jaffna, 24,540 ... ... ... ... 9 

2. — Practice — plaint — amendment. 

Where the plaint filed is defective and unintelligible, it is prefer- 
able to examine the party and thus ascertain the issues in the case, to 
insisting upon an amended plaint. 

C. E., Balapiti Modere, 9,163 ... ... ... ... 22 

3. — Jurisdiction — alimony. 

Courts of Eequests have no jurisdiction in cases of alimony. 

C. E., Jaffna, 25,491 ... ... ... ... 24 

4. — Practice — Petition of appeal. 

The rules affecting Courts of Eequests do not require the drawer of 
a petition of appeal to affix his signature thereto, or witnesses to attest 
the signature of the appellant. 

C. R., Avisawelle, 12 ... ... ... ... 53 

5. — Practice — Judgment by default — Order to re-open — Appeal. 

An order to re-open a judgment by default is not appealable, not 
being a final order, but a party, in appealing against the final order may 
bring in that appeal before the effective notice of the Supreme Court 
any errors of law or of fact in any stage of the suit. 

C. K., Harrispattu, 2,545 .. ... ... ... 92 

6. — Adjomnmeni of cases. 

The practice of adjourning cases merely on account of the parties 
not being ready, or of the absence of the parties, animadverted upon. 

A Court of Eequests cause ought to be summarily and cheaply dis- 
posed of. 

C. E., Matara, 14,834 ... ... ... ... 130 

Creditor and Debtor. 

See Mortgage. 
Custom. 
See FisHEET. 

Planting share. 

Customs Ordinance. 

Customs Ordinance No. 18 of 1852, cl. 96 [d. 115 of Ordinance 

iVc. 17 c/1869] "shall" — proper party to institute plaint. 
All proMcutions entailing penalties and forfeitures under the" Cus- 



toms Ordinance, must be made by the Queen's Advocate, and the 
Queen's Advocate alone. 

P. G.,Galle, 43,262 ... ... ... ... ... 177 

Damages. 

)Si«e_EjECTMENT. 

Eeconvention. 
Deed'orarrangement. 

Preference to one creditor — Concealment by deUor. 

A deed of arrangement consented to on the understanding that all 
the creditors of the debtor were to share an equality ofbenefit, may be 
annulled by secret preference having been given to one of the creditors. 

D. C. Colombo, 28,555 ... ... ... 197 

Discretion of Judge, 

See Eight to begin. 
District Court. 

1. — Writ of habeas corpus ad subjiciendum — Power of District 
Courts to issue — Nature of such writ — Interpretation of statutes. 

District Courts have no power to issue writs of, or in the nature of 
writs of, habeas corpus ad subjiciendum. 

It is " a very high prerogative writ by which the King has a right 
to enquire the causes for which any of his subjects are deprived of their 
liberty" (^Crowley's ease.) 

It is a remedial mandatory writ. 

A remedial statute should be liberally construed, and where the 
liberty of the subject is concerned, courts of law " are to struggle to 
secure it." 

But as the court cannot make laws for this purpose an assumption of 
the right to issue this writ must rest on legal interpretation of existing 
statutes, and not on mere argument of inference, implication or con- 
venience. 

Neither the Landraad Courts under the Dutch Government, nor 
the Provincial Courts under the English regime, granted these writs. 

D. C, Kandy, 6,625 ... ... ... — ••• 116 

See " Conjugal Eights, restitution of." 
Ejectment, 

1 . — Be-instation of plaintiff— Eights of tort-feasor defendant. 

In an action of ejectment, where the plaintiffs were entitled to an 
account of mesne profits, held that the true spirit of the proceedings ought 
to be a desire to re-instate the plaintiffs so far as possible in the position 
of advantage which they would have held bad they not been dispossessed 
by the defendants, during the time in question. 

Held, also that the defendant, though a wrong-door in the sense of 



tort-feasor, was entitled to all such expenses by way of commission as 
were absolutely necessary for tbe realization of the profits of the crop. 

D. C, Kandy, 26,656 ... .-. •• •" '''' 

2 — Beaovery of rents and profits — Prescription. 

In an action of ejectment, where the rents and profits appropriated 
are sought to be recovered, plaintiff's claim thereto must be limited by the 
provisions of the Prescriptive Ordinance. 

D. C. Kandy, 30,632 .. — •■■ ••• HI 

See Immovable Property. 
Mesne Profits. 
Practice, 1. 

Emblements. 

See Growing Crops. 
Estoppel. 

1. — Privies. 

The doctrine of estoppel, so far as it applies to privies, proceeds upon 
the principle that a party claiming through another is estopped by, that 
which estopped that other respecting the same subject matter. 

D. C, Kurunegala, 14,068 ... ... .. ... 71 

Evidence, 

1. — Agreement — Unstamped document — Production. 

It is not a sufficient reason for the non-production of a document 
that it was unstamped. 

D. C.,. Colombo, 27,010 ... ... ... ... 25 

2. — Promissory note — Want of stamp — Proof of original debt. 

The giving of a note or bill without a proper stamp in discharging a 
prior debt, will not preclude the creditor from proving his original debt 
by other evidence. 

C. K., Panadure, 1,105 ... ... ... ... 53 

3. — Promissory note — Joint and several — Evidence— ^Surety. 

Where a promissory note is joint and several in its terms, evidence 
that one of the makers was merely a surety is inadmissible. 

C. E., Colombo, 3,103 ... ... ... ... 71 

4. — Depositions taken in one case put in as evidence in another case- 
Consent — Irregularity — Prejudice of substantial rights of defendant. 

In a case of keeping a house for the purpose of promiscuous gaming, 
the evidence of the character and ownership of the house, as recorded in 
a connected case against those who were found gambling in that house, 
was put in as evidence in the former case, with the consent of the defendant, 
and on such evidence he was convicted. Held, that the reception of such 
evidence prejudiced the substantial rights of the defendant, and that the 
interest which the public has in the administration of criminal justice 



required tlie error to be corrected, even thougli tte individual consented 
to his own wrong, and evidence to be properly taken. 

Qu ? Wbetber tbe consent of an accused party or his advocate in a 
criminal case, can^ever dispense with any of the strict rules of evidence. 

P. C, Panadure, 1,383 ... ... ... ... 71 

See Arrack. 

Maintenance. 
Moral Inscriptions. 
Executors. 

See Immovable Property. 
False or frivolous prosecution. 

1. — Knowledge of falsity — Mode of adjudication. 

In order to justify, under Ordinance No. 11 of 1843, cl. 12. [Ordi- 
nance No. 11 of 1868, cl. 106], a fine for a false charge, it should appear 
not only that the charge, when investigated, proved to be erroneous, but 
that it was false to the prosecutor's knowledge at the time when he institu- 
ted the proceedings. 

In findin prosecutors, there out to be an express adjudication on 
the face of the proceedings that the prosecution was instituted on false, 
frivolous, or vexatious grounds as the case may be. 

P. C, Galle, 41,172 ... ... ... ... 08 

Fishery. 

1. — Customs as to ma del. 

C. E., Galle, 16,645 • ... ... ... ... 34 

Freiglit. 

See Shipping, 2. 
Frivolous or vexatious arrest. 

1. — Peace oficer or officer of the law — Vexatious arrest — Ordinance 
No. 15 of 1843, cl 20, ^Ordinance No. 11 of 1868, cl. 167]. 

A frivolous or vexatious arrest can only be an arrest malicious in 
its nature or without substantial ground of suspicion, or upon a charge 
plainly not an offence in law. 

P. C, KegaUe, 6,546 ... .. ... .. 88 

Gambling. 

1.— Gambling— Ordinance No. 4 of 1841, cl. 19 " Use. " 
The word " use " in cl. 19 of the Vagrants' Ordinance refers, not to 
a person who r esorts to a place to gamble, but to a master or manager of 
the place, as distinct from the owner, keeper or occupier thereof, 

P. C, Matara, 27,115 ... .. .. ... 24 



Growing crops. 

1. — Crops" of chenas — Lease — Ordinance No. 7 of 1840, cl. 2.— 
" interestin land." — 

Whether a contract to lease 'the crops of certain chenas need be 
notarially executed as being " an interest in land." 

An " interest in land" is not created by any contract, unless the 
contract confers an exclusive right to the land for a time for the purpose 
of making a profit of the growing surface. 

The true question is, whether, in order to effectuate the intention 
of the parties, it be necessary to give the buyer an interest in the land, 
or whether an easement of the right to enter the'land for' the purpose of 
harvesting and carrying them away, is all that was intended to be granted. 

C. E., Eatnapura, 1,056 ... ... ... ... 101 

Guardian and Ward. 

1. — Moneys of the ward — How to he dealt with. 

D. C, GaUe, 1,295 ... .. ... ... 32 

Habeas corpus, writ of. 

1. — Custody of female child — Claims of stranger and of relative. 

"Where a child's relative has consented to that child being taken at a 
time of its extreme need by a person who has maintained it, and is willing 
to maintain it, with all proper kindness, and in comfort and respectability, 
and where that relative after a long lapse of time comes forward at a very 
suspicious period of a female child's existence to claim possession of it, 
the Supreme Court wUl not misuse the writ of habeas corpus to take the 
child from a good and virtuous house, and deliver it over to misery and 
Want, probably to vice, and certainly to grievous temptation. 

/ra re Aysa Natchia ... ... ., ... 130 

^ee District Court. 

Headman's lands. 

See Kaudyan Teeeitoet. 
Husband and Wife. 

1. — Delict of husband amounting to crime — lAability ofwif^s share 

The wife's share of the common property is liable for all contracts 
made by the husband ; but her share is not liable, where the husband, 
being prosecuted criminally, is punished by sentence of fine or confisca- 
tion. 

Neither is her share liable where he is used civilly on an obligation 
arising out of a delict amounting to crime, 

D, C, Colombo,;^26,4M ... ••• ... __^ 94 



2. — Conjugal rights, restitution of— Jurisdiction of District Courts 

— matrimonial suit — [^Oi'dinanci No. 11 of 1868, cl. 64.] 
A suit for the restitution of conjugal rights is not maintainable in 
Ceylon, 

Though it is a " matrimonial" suit, it does not fall within the pur- 
view of cl. 24 of the Charter of 1833, the Supplemental Charter of 1843, 
and of Ordinance No. 12 of 1843, [cl. 64 of Ordinance No. 11 of 1868], 
inasmuch as the matrimonial suits contemplated therein were only such as 
were maintainable in Holland under the Roman Dutch Law. 

Eestitution of conjugal rights was not maintainable in the old Dutch 
Courts of the Island. 

D. C, Galle, 17,665 ) 103 

— — 19,934/ - 

See Insolvency. 
Kandyan Law. 
Maintenance. 

Immovable property. 

d. — Kandyan District — real estate — suit between English parties — 

English Law — deed affecting immovable property in Ceylon — 

its validity — place of execution — mortgage by executor and 

trustee— judgment against him — sale in execution held there- 

undei — action for ejectment — mesne profits. 

In an action to recover possession of real estate in the Kandyan 

District by English parties, whose rights were founded upon instruments 

made in the English form. 

Held (there being no particular law in that District), that the 
principles oi English law were to govern the rights of the parties to the 
suit. 

According to the law in force in Ceylon, it is essential to the validity 
of a deed afBecting immovable property that the deed should be executed 

in the Island. 

One DufE having obtained judgment against D. B. Lindsay on a bond, 
dated 11th July, 1848, which purported to mortgage the Eajawelle coffee 
estate, sued out writs of execution and caused the said estate to be seized 
and sold by the hands of the Fiscal as the property of D. B. Lindsay ; 
whereas in truth, the interest which the judgment debtor had in the pro- 
perty was as one of many trustees under a certain will. The proceedings 
too which resulted in the sale were found to be in breach of faith. 
Duff became the purchaser of the estate at the sale and subsequently sold 
it to Brown, Smyttan and In^leton. 

In an action raised by two of the surviving devisees in trust under 
the will aforesaid against the third surviving devisee (D. B. Lindsay) and 
Duff and two of his vendors, for rendering null and void the deed of 
11th July, 1848, and all proceedings held thereunder, and for the further 
purpose of ejecting the vendees from the estate, — 



10 

'Held, that plaintifEs were entitled to be restored to the possession of 
the estate ; that an account of mesne profits be taken as passed into the 
hands of DufE from 10th February, 1849, to 80th April, 1850, and of 
Brown and Ingleton from 1st May, 1850, to 21st May, 1853, and that 
the amount so ascertained be paid into the registry and be not paid out 
without due notice to Duif's vendees, until the expiration of sis months 
from the date of the order of the Privy Council, with liberty to them to 
take such proceedings in the meantime as they may be advised for- 
asserting their claim to the said moneys or to the estate &c. 

D. C, Kandy, 26,656. .. .. ••■ ••• 37 

Injury. 

See Bkute ahimal. 

Insolvency. 

1. — Europeans resident in Kandy — actual and matrimonial domiciles 
— European wife — Kandyan wife — postnuptial settlement — 
insolvency — fraudu lent conveyance — certifica te. 

A European having bought a cottage within the Kandyan District, 
out of certain moneys bequeathed to his wife by a third party and paid 
into his hands, executed a conveyance to her of that property, their matri- 
monial and actual domiciles being also in the Kandyan district, — 

Held, that the'Kaudyan Law was applicable to the case, as being the 
law of their actual and matrimonial domicile, and that accordingly the 
European wife, as a Kandyan wife, had a separate estate in property 
coming to her, and that she could legally receive and hold property directly 
fromherhusbandoranyoneelae, whether by way of gift or under contract. 

K. entered into an ante-nuptial agreement with his wife in 1855, 
agreeing to settle an annuity of £300' on her if she should survive him. 
In 1859, whan in insolvent circumstances, he made a settlement on his 
wife purporting to convey to certain trustees in her favour a moiety of a 
certain coffee estate, — 

Held, that the post-nuptial settlement was not in terms of the ante- 
nuptial agreement, but was intended to defraud his creditors and as such 
void. 

Voluntariness of a conveyance, when coupled with insolvency, will 
invalidate the settlement. 

A fraudulent conveyancej in the sense in which the term is used in 
bankruptcy law, is not sufBcient of itself for the withholding of a certi- 
ficate from the insolvent. There ought to be other circumstances, such 
as moral fraud, negligence in business, extravagance &c. 

Kershaw's case ... .. .. .. ... 157 

Interpretation. 

1. — Statute charging a burden on the subject. 

It is a well settled rule of law that every charge upon the subject 



u 

must Le imposed by clear and unambiguous language, and even where 
there is an ambiguity found, the construction must be in favour of the 
public, because where the public are to be charged with a burden, the 
intention of the legislature to impose that burden must be explicitly and 
distinctly shewn. 

C. R., (Jalle, 20,002 .. ... .. .. 28 

2 . — Penal Statutes — construction. 

The rule by which to construe Ordinances is to look at the precise 
words and to construe them in their ordinary sense, unless it would lead 
to r.ny absurdity or manifest injustice, and if it should, so to modify, and 
vary them as to, avoid that which would certainly not have been the intention 
of the Legislature. 

P. C, Kegalle, 16,940 .. ... ... .. 98 

Intervention. 

1. — Practice. 

Where a party vras allowed to intervene without shewing his intei'est 
by petition or motion, held that the Roman Dutch Law requires a party 
seeking to intervene to file his articles of intervention, shewing summarily 
his interest, to justify such intervention. The practice in Colombo is for 
the intervenieut to commence with his petition of intervention, which 
sets out his interest and ends with a prayer asking for leave to intervene 
and that his petition may be accepted and parties noticed thereon. 

D. C, Kandy, 30,819 . . . . . . . . 22 

2. — Practice — when intervention allowed. 

An intervenient should not be allowed as a matter of course to inter- 
vene in a case. He should summarily shew his interests in the cause 
before he is allowed to intervene. 

As a general rule, an intervenient ought not to delay a case. He 
should take it up in the stage in which he finds it. 

D. C, Jaffna, 8,178 .. ... ... ... 80 

3. — When allowed. 

The principle of the law of intervention is that if any third person, 
considers that his interest will be affected by a cause which is depending, 
he is not bound to leave the case of his interest to either of the litigants, 
but has a right to intervene or be made a party to the cause, and to take 
on himself the defence of his own right, provided he does not disturb the 
order of the proceedings. 

It is not proper to allow an intervenient to come in to defend his 
own rights and then to suffer him to be put out of Court by the renunci- 
ation and disclaimers of the original parties. 

C. E., Chavakachcheri, 961 .. .. ... ... 87' 



i-2 

Judge. 

Duty of. 
See Appeal Petition, 3. 
Judgment. 

1. — General judgment— liability thereon of several defendants. 

"Where a general judgment has been obtained against sevei'al defen- 
dants, each of them is liable only for his share and cannot be called upon 
to pay the whole debt in solido. 

D. C, Kandy, 26,656 ... ... . ... 64 

See Namptissement. 
Kandyan Law. 

1. — Beena husband — his interest in ivi/e's estate. 

A heeha husband has no right to, or interest in, his wife's estate, 
after her death. 

Qu. ? Whether he has an interest in the property acquired during 
coverture. 

D. C, Kandy, 338. .. .. ... ... 5 

2. — Deed of gift — clause of disinherison. 

A Kandyan having executed a deed in certain terms, making over 
and granting in paraveny to his second wife and children begotten by 
her, certain lands, died. In an action raised by his issue by the first bed 
for an undivided moiety of the lands which had been taken possession of 
by the surviving widow and her children, under the instrument aforesaid, 

Held that it was not a last will, but a deed of gift, and that as such 
in order to be valid, it must not only contain a clause of disinherison 
but must set forth the reasons of the disinherison. 

D. C, Kandy, 27,150 followed 

D. C, Kandy, 34,395 . . . . . . . . 108 

3. — Practice — non-joinder of Kandyan loidoio — her interest in estate 
of deceased husband. 

"Where a widow has been already provided for by the will of her 
husband, and has no interest in the subject of the suit,it is not necessary 
in a case brought by the heir for the recovery of certain mesne profits, to 
make her party plaintiff with him. 

All that a widow is entitled to is maintenance and support, and for this 
purpose she may receive from the heir either a portion of the produce of 
the deceased's paraveny lands, or she may have the temporary possession 
and usufruct of a suitable portion of such lands ; and in the latter case, 
the heir-at-law shall perform the rajakaria or personal service due on 
account of that portion. 

Semb'le, she must be joined as plaintiff, if the lands in suit were the 



13 

acquired property of the testator, for in such a case, she has a life-estate 
in them. 

C. E., Eatnapura, 662J ... ... 212 

See Insolvency. 

Mural Inscriptions. 

NiNDEGAMA. 

Sannas. 
Kandyan territory. 

1- — BeadmarCs lands in — Proclamation, 2\st November 1878, cl. 23. 

The immunity from taxation given to the chiefs, under cl. 23 of the 
Proclamation of 21st November, 1883, is a personal immunity, and not 
one given to the lands which they hold in the district where they bear 
office. 

C. E., Harrispattu, 2,477 ... ... ... ... 143 

Legal maxims. 

1. — In pari delicto, potior est conditio possidentis 
2. — Interest reipublicce ut finis sit litium 
'&.— Actus curiae neminifacit injuriam. 

Legitimacy. 

1. — Presumption of — married woman. 

The law in certain cases recognises a conclusive presumption in favour 
of legitimacy. 

Where the husband and wife have cohabited together and no impo- 
tency is proved, the issue is conclusively presumed to be legitimate, 
though the wife is shewn to have been at the same time guilty of infidelity. 

And even where the parents are living separate, a presumption of 
legitimacy arises so strong that it can only be rebutted either by proof of 
previous divorce, or by cogent and almost irresistible proof of non-access 
in a sexual sense. Nor is the fact that a woman is living in notorious 
adultery in itself sufficient to repel this presumption. 

P. C, Colombo, 59,202 ... ... ... ... 90 

Maintenance. 

1. — Married woman — separation from husband — proof of illegiti- 
macy — evidence of parents to bastardise issue. 

Where a married woman, living separately from her husband, brought 
a charge of maintenance against a third party, and it became incumbent 
on her to prove the illegitimacy of the children, held, that the conduct of 
the parents as to whether they had or had not connexion was inadmissible, 
not only all direct questions respecting access, but all questions which 
have a tendency to prove or disprove that fact, unless they are put with 
a view to some different point in the cause. 

It is permissible for the woman to confess her adulterous connexion 



14 

after H;he fact of her husbaud's non-access has been established by inde- 
pendent evidence. 

P. C, Colombo, 59,20-2 ... ... ... ... 90 

See Leqitimacy. 

Master and Servant. 

1. — Action for tvages. — plea of forfeiture — \^Ordinance No. 11 of 
1865, cl. 11.] — rights of master. 

A master when sued for wages, may avail himself of either the com- 
mon law defence or the statutory defence. 

Under the common law, a master may discharge without notice a 
servant guilty of gross misconduct and the servant so discharged is not 
entitled to any wages that have not previously accrued due ; under the 
Ordinance, in an action for wages, a master may make abatement there- 
from on account of the servant's absence from or neglect of work, and 
also for the value of breakages or damage done to the employer's property, 
through the servant's misconduct, gross negligence or carelessness. 

If under the Ordinance the master wishes to enforce his rights, he 
must institute a proper proceeding and not decide for himself that a 
forfeiture of wages has been made. 

C, R., Jaffna, 27,355. ... ... ... ... 193 

Mayoraal. 

1. — His duties — nature of. 

The office of mayoraal in the district of Matara is not hereditary. 

His duties consisted in superintending the culture of fields ; estima- 
ting the crop for taxation ; signing the ivattooroos upon which the 
' Government share is farmed out ; furnishing returns of crown lands 
when ordered, and attending at rent sales &c. 

D. C, Matara, 19,487 .. .. ... .. lOG 

Mesne Profits 

1. — Mesne profits — Costs under £10 — "debts contraaled" — Ordi- 
nance No. 7 of 1853, cl. 164 — Arrest against person. 

Mesne profits and costs fall within the description of " debt con- 
tracted" under the 164th clause of Ordinance No. 7 of 1853, which dis- 
allows arrest against the person for sums under £10. 

D. C, Kurunegala, 14,015 ... ... ... ... 27 

2 . — Mesne profits — damages — prescrip tion. 

Mesne profits, being in the nature of damages, can be recovered only 
subject to the provisions of the Prescriptive Ordinance. 

C. E., Eatnapura, 6621 ... ... ... ... 112 

3. — Action to recover — Prescription. 

A party may sue for mesne profits, even though in a former suit for 



15 

the land, te declared for mesne profits, but gave no evidence thereon. 
But he can only recover under the Prescriptive Ordinance. 

D. C, BaduUa, 15,471 ... ... ... ... 143 

See Courts of Eequests, 4. 

EjECTMENr. 

Mohamedan Law. 

1. — Custody of children. 

The maternal grandmother is entitled to the care of the children in 
preference to their father. 

In ve Aysa Natchia. ... ... ... ... 88 

2. — Custody of child — Liability of father to maintain it. 

The grandmother of a Mohamedan child is entitled to its custody 
on the death of its mother. 

The right of the grandmother to such custody is given on the 
child's behalf, not on behalf of the grandmother. It is the child's 
privilege. 

The obligation of providing for the child's maintenance is para- 
mount on the father, although the grandmother has the custody of the 
child, and the father wishes to have it in his own. 

D. C, Colombo, 29,370 ... ... ... ... 144 

Mistake. 

1. — Voluntary payment — Payment to ^public officers under compulsion. 

Money voluntarily paid by a party who is under no mistake caimot 
ordinarily be recovered back. 

But there is a distinction between the case of money paid upon a 
claim made by a public officer who has the power of summarily enforcing 
his chim without reference to the ordinary legal remedies, and money paid 
under a claim by a private individual who has no power of enforcing it 
except by adopting those remedies. In the former case, it is obviously 
inequitable that the public officer should retain what he thus acquired. 
In the latter case, if the party paying was not deceived, he is not entitled 
to recover. 

C. E., Galle, 20,002 . . ... ... ... 28 

2. — Payment under protest — relation of priest and congregationalist. 

A payment under protest to a priest by a member of his congrega- 
tion, is recoverable in equity if undue influence has been used, or impro- 
per advantage taken of the peculiar relation existing between the parties. 

C. E., Kalutara, 12,546 ... ... 34 



16 

Mortgage. -. .„ 

1. Mortgage— assignment from creditor madein pursuance oj agree- 
ment entered into long after payment— advances for cultivation 
of estate— prior special mortgage — preference. 

On 23rd October, 1857, E mortgaged to M and M a certain coffee 
estate, stipulating payment to them of the principal amount, £6000, by- 
five equal instalments of £1,200 each payable yearly between, 1859 and 
1863. He also executed two other mortgages to S on the 23rd December, 
1858, and 15th August, 1859, respectively, for sums aggregating £3,000 ; 
and also a fourth mortgage to L on the 24th December, 1859,; agreeing 
with L that L was to carry on the cultivation of the estate and pay to 
M and M the instalment due in January, 1860, upon their bond. L 
who had no notice of either of the mortgages in favor of S, paid to M 
andM the instalment aforesaid with the interest due, on £1,536, but did 
not take an assignment therefor until the following year;_1861,_when E's 
fraud was discovered. 

On the 25th March, 1861, M and M recovered judgment against E 
for the balance £3,600 still due to them on the bond, and assigned their 
interest therein to S. S thereupon sued out writs of execution and 
became the purchaser of the estate for £7,500. L now claimed out of 
the proceeds sale the sum of £3,157 as due under his bond for advances 
made by him to carry on the cultivation of the estate, and for rtioney paid 
to M and M in respect of the instalment of 1860. 

Held, (1) thatL was not entitled to rank before S with regard to the 
claim for XI, 536, either under the assignment from M and M or inde- 
pendently thereof ; 

And (2) that L had no claim in preference 'to S in regard of the 
sum paid by L for the cultivation and improvement of the estate, either 
by virtue of a tacit hypothec or under the bond of 24th December, 1859. 

D. C, Colombo, 29,669 ... ... ... ... 148 

See Partnership, 1. 
Mural Inscriptions. 

1. — Evidence — admissibility of copy. 

A Kandyan King granted certain lands to~a Buddhist temple, making 
an inscription of the grant on the rock wall of the temple. The mural 
inscription was admitted to have been copied from a pushola deed. Held 
that the mural inscription in the absence of the pushola deed, the non- 
production of which was satisfactorily accounted for, was admissible in 
evidence, by means of a duly transcribed copy. 

D. C, Kandy, 30,917 ... ... .. ... 2 

Namptissement. 

1. — On wliat documents allowable. 

Where an instrument which forms the basis of an application for 
provisional judgment is one which, according to plaintiff's own shewing. 



17 

is not so complete in itself as to raise a strong presumption in favour of 
plaintiff's claim, but is connected with others and calling for further 
inquiry, namptissement should not be granted upon it. 

D. C, Colombo, 27,514 ... .. ... ... 20 

New trial. 

1. — New trial — grounds for. , 

Where for several months after evidence was taken, the court did 
not pronounce judgment, and the judgment it pronounced is not strongly 
in favor of plaintiff, held a new trial was necessary. 

C. K., Chavakachcheri, 864 ... ... ... ... 129 

Nindegama. 

1. — Nature of- — tenure of Service. 

The owner of a nindegama may alienate it by sale, with all the 
rights incident thereto, and the purchaser may hold as fully as the last 
owner. 

Semhle — the fact of the purchaser not being domiciled in the Kandyan 
provinces, is no objection to his exercising proprietary rights over the 
nindegama. 

Qu ? Whether the new proprietor can exact the services, if he be 
of a caste inferior to that of the tenant. 

D. C, Eatnapura, 7,126 ... ... ... ... 114 

Ordinances- 

1834, No. 8, cl. 2, [1871, No. 22, cl. 3]. 
See Presckiption. 
Servitude. 

1840, No. 7. 

cl. 2, See Contract, 2. 
Growing Crops. 

1841, No. 4, 

cl. 19, See Gambling. 

1843, No. 11, 

cl. 12, [Ordinance 1868, No. 11, cl. 106]. 
See False Prosecution. 

1843, No. 15, 

cl. 20, [Ordinance 1861, No. 11, cl. 167], 
Set Frivolous and Vexatious Arrest. 

1844, No. 10, 

cl. 32, See Arrack, 2. 

1846, No. 12, 

cl. 24, [Ordinance 1865, No. 16, cl. 89]. 
See Public Worship. 



18 

1852, No. 5. 

cl. 1, See Reconvention. 

— No. 18. 

cl. 96, [Ordinance 1869, No. 17, cl. 115]. 
See Customs Ordinance. 

1853, No. 7, 

cl. 164, See Arrest for debt. 
Court of Requests. 

1861, No. 22, 

cl. 17, [Ordinance 1867, No. 4, cl. 17]. 
See Toll. . 

1865, No. 16, 

cl. 66, See Contract. 
See District Court, 1. , 

Interpretation. 
Paddy and dry grain Ordinance. 

1. — Prosecution thereunder — exemption from tax. 

P. C, Kalutara, 22,777. ... ... — ••• 1 

Partnership. 

1. — Loan to partner — mortgage hy him of partnership property — 
poller of attorney — subsequent ratification — benefit of the firm. 

Where a partner holding a power of attorney of his co-partner, 
pledges and delivers partnership property, for the security of loans ad- 
vanced to him in his own name, and the acts of the partner were subse- 
quently ratified by the firm, the pledger was held entitled to hold the 
property so pledged to him, until the advances made thereon by him had 
been satisfied. 

The presumption of fraud or misapplication was held rebutted by 
the particular circumstances of the case, 

D. C, Kandy, 31,273 ... ... -. ... 9 

Payment. 

See Mistake. 
Planting Share. 

1 .—Custom, 

It is an acknowledged custom of the country that) persons who have 
entered upon land with consent of the owner, and have actually planted 
it with coooanuts, are entitled to a share of the trees when they come 
into bearing. 

They may claim this by operation of law, and not as a consequence 
of the terms of any agreement between them and the owners. 

C. R., Calpentyn, 17,716 ... ... ... ... 113 



19 
Pleadings. 

See Procedure 4. 
Police court. 

!• — Practice — plaint hy whom to be laid — power of Court to reopen 
order of dismissal — ramendment of plaint. 

P. C, Jaffna, 1,882 ... ... ... ... ... ISO 

2. — Posponement of cases. 

P. C. Chavakachcliari, 19,860 ... ... ... 91 

See Aeeack. 
Customs. 

Frivolous or vexatious arrest. 
Gambling. 
Maintenance. 
Procedure (Criminal.) 
Public worship. 
Resistance. 
Trespass. 

Police Force. 

1. — Quartering of. 
See Proclamation. 

Possession. 

See Prescription. 

Possessory action. 

1 . — Its nature — practice. 

The possessory action of the Roman Dutch Law lies only where a 
party who has had possession for more than a year and a day is dispos- 
sessed ty force. It is a summary remedy, and judgment given in it in 
no way determines the title to the land, but leaves that an open question. 

C. E., Balap. Modera, 9,163 ... ... .. ... 22 

2. — Possessory right — evidence — R. and 0. 2nd July, 1842. 

An action founded upon one's possessory right by reason of a year 
and a day's possession may be maintained against a mere wrong-doer. 

Under the R. and O., 2nd July, 1842, documentary evidence which 
had not been filed in the case, do not for that reason become inadmissible 
at the trial. The judge has always a discretionary power to admit a 
right. 

D. C, Mannar, 5,632 ... ... ... ... 19a 



:2() 

Prescription. 

1. — As to lands and immovables. 

" Possession for ten years previous to the bringing of action," (cl. 2 
of Ordinance No. 8 of 1834) is not possession next before tbe bringing of 
the action. 

C. R., Point Pedro, 41 ... ... ••• ••• 75 

2. — Nature of prescriptive possession. 

There are two jjoints regarding the law of prescription that should 
be always well borne in mind : the first, that a possessor is always pre- 
sumed to hold in his own right and as proprietor, until the contrary be 
demonstrated. The second, that the contrary being once established, and 
it being shewn that the possession commenced by virtue of some other 
title, such as that of tenant or planter, then the possessor is presumed to 
have continued to hold on the same terms, until he distinctly proves that 
his title has been changed. 

D. C, Negombo, 419... ... ... .. ■• 145 

3. — Effect of nonsuit. 

A former case though a nonsuit, bars prescription (Creasy C. J., 
dubitante.) 

D. C, JafEna, 9,601 ... ... ... ... 189 

4. — Acknowledgment of tight. 

Prescriptive possession will not avail, if within that period, the title 
deed of the opponent has been acknowledged to be valid. 

D. C. Batticaloa, 13,452. ... ... 189 

See Servitude. 
Priority. 

See Mortgage. 
Principal and Agent. 

1. — Purchase of land — fraudulent transfer of property in agent's 
name — action for cancellation of deed. 

A supplied B with the necessary funds and deputed him to purchase 
a land and obtain a conveyance thereof in A's favour ; but B in breach 
of trust had the deed executed in his own favour. On A. suing B, held, 
that petitioner was entitled to have defendant's deed cancelled and to have 
a reconveyance of the premises to the plaintiff at defendant's expense. 

D. C. Negombo, 23,754 ... . . . . . . 6 

Probate. 

See Will, 1. 



21 

Procedure, Civil. 

1 . — Special judgment — construction. 

Where a judgment declared a party " entitled to, and to be placed in 
possession of tlie land," held that such judgment authorised the ejectment 
of the defendant therefrom. 

D. C, Colombo, 21,041 .. .. ... ... 8 

2.-. — Parti/ in default to plead-^putting him on terms — order of court. 

In all cases where a party in default is allowed fresh time to plead, 
if it is intended that, in default of such pleading being filed within the 
time allowed by the court, judgment should be entered for the opposite 
party without further notice to the party in default, such condition should 
be expressly set out in the order allowing time to plead. 

D. C, JafEna, 10,336 .. .. .. ... 25 

3. — Pleadings insufficiently stamped procedure to remedy — nature 

of order of court. 

Where pleadings are insufficiently stamped, the proper course is to 
apply to the court by motion, or to obtain a rule to shew cause why the 
additional stamps should not be supplied within a given time. 

An order allowing additional stamps, to be supplied, does not mean 
that the additional stamps should be affixed to the pleading, but that the 
party whose pleading is insufficiently stamped should apply for additional 
stamps under cl. 7 of Ordinance No. 19 of 1852. That application 
necessitates the payment of a penalty of £10. It will be for the party 
in fault to consider whether it will be better for him to pay the penalty 
or commence his suit de novo. 

ISee cl. 38, 39 and 40, of Ordinance No. 23 of 1871.J 

D. C, JafEna, 10,853 ... ... ... ... 104 

4. — Claim in execution — claimant out of possession — evidence of 
title. 

A claimant in " execution" must give proof of title in all cases 
where he is not reported to be in possession. ... ... 188 

See Eight to begin. 
Kandyan Law, 3. 

Procedure, Criminal. 

1. — Prisoner under sentence of death — escape from custody — re-arrest 
— application hy Queen's Advocate for writ of habeas corpus — 
power of Supreme Court to award execution. 
Where a prisoner under sentence of death escapes from custody and 
is re-arrested, he has a right to have an opportunity of pleading non- 
identity. 

The proper course in such a case is for the Queen's Advocate to have 



22 

the prisoner before the Supreme Court on a writ of habeas corpus, so as 
to be able to obtain a rule nisi on him for awarding execution. 

The Supreme Court has the power to grant writ of habeas corpus for 
the purpose. 

/»i ;•« Valayudapody ... .. ... .,. ... 186 

2. — Irregularity — summons — binding over to keep the peace — conduct 
before J. P. 

P. C. Trincomalee, 1549 ... ... ... ... 188 

3. — Irregularity — want of summons — pleadings over — consent. 

It is irregular to try an accused person without service of proper 
summons on him. The defect is not cured by his pleading over. 

P. C, Kegalle, 18,266 ... .. ... .. 191 

See Police Coukt. 
Proclamation. 

1818, November, 21. 

See Kandyan territory. 
1848, August 7. 

Construction of. 

C. K., Galle, 20,002 ... ... .. .. 28 

Proctor. 

See Appeal petition, 3. 
Promissory Note. 

1. — Illegal consideration — annulment of insolvency proceedings — 

forbearance in opposing certificate. 
"Where a promissory note was granted for the consideration that the 
payee would bring about the annulment of certain insolvency proceedings 
against a third party, and would forbear opposing his certificate, held that 
such consideration was illegal. 

D. C, Colombo, 26,795 ... .. ... ... 81 

See Evidence, 3 and 4 

Provisional Judgment. 

See Namptissement. 
Public Worship. 

1. — Disturbance of — [^Ordinance No. 16 of 1865, cl. 89J — nature 
of service — " any place of christian worship." 

A christian congregation, assembled in their regular place of worship 
to join in public prayer, and to listen to the religious exhortation of their 
minister, is assembled for the performance of " public worship," within 
the meaning of the Ordinance. 

The words " aw^'plaoe of christian worship, &c.," are general and do 
not mean any place where a police force is established. 



23 

Purchase and Sale, 

1. — Sale of land — warranty of title — claim for value, and compen- 
sation for improvement. 

A having bought of B a land with warranty of title, built a house 
on it, but STifEered eviction therefrom by a title superior to his vendors. 
Held, that A. was entitled to recover both the purchase money and the 
value of the house. 

C. R., Kegalle, 1,047 .. ... .: ... 93 

See Principal and Agent. 

Recognizance. 

1 — Forfeiture of — levy under warrant of distress — Ordinance No. 6 
of 1855, cl. 11 — procedure. 

D. C, Galle, 9,501 ... ... .. 147 

Reconvention. 

I. — Claim for freight — claim in reconvention for damages to cargo 
and for short delivery — cross action — set o£ pleading — Ordinance 
No. 5 of 1862, cl. 1. 

Eeconvention is equivalent not to set off, but to cross action 

A claim for freight may be met by a cross action for damage to cargo 
and short delivery, though it is discretionary with the Judge, if he think 
the claim in reconvention to be dubious and dilatory, to disallow it, with 
liberty to defendant to reserve his claim for an independent suit. 

Ordinance No. 5 of 1852, cl., introducing the law of England as to 
maritime matters, does not exclude the power of pleading in reconvention 
anything that could not have been pleaded in England by way of set off, 

D. C, GaUe, 20,467 ... .. 191 

Right to begin. 

1. — Eight to begin — appeal — discretion of presiding judge. 

The right to begin, the order in which parties are to call evidence, and 
all similar matters as to the conduct of a cause are things in which the 
presiding judge ought to be invested with very large discretionary 
powers, and the Supreme Court will not interfere with the mode in which 
these discretionary powers have been exercised, except in cases of gross 
error and of serious hardship arising from such error. 

D. C, Kurunagale, 15,830 ... ... .. ... 143 

2. — Bight to begin — appeal. 

A District Judge ought not to have made an order as to the right to 
begin, and then suspended the proceedings to remit an appeal against 
such order. 

D. C, Jaffna, 11,493 ... ... ... .. 145 



Sannas. 

1. — Mode of iproving the genuineness of sannasses. 

D. C, Kandy, 28,620 ... ... ... ... 4 

See MuEAL Inscriptions. 

Sequestration. 

1. — Grrant of second sequestration. 

Ciroiimstances under whicli a second sequestration of property be- 
longing to defendants was held unjustifiable. 

D. C. Colombo, 26,952 ... ... ... ... 30 

Servitude. 

1 — Bight of way possession — Ordinance No. 8 of 183'4, cl. 2 [ol. 3 

of Ordinance No. 22 of 1871.] 
A right of way is a proverbial servitude and as such " immovable'' 
Enjoyment of a right of way is included in the words "possession of 

lands or immovable property," in cl. 2 of Ordinance No. 8 of 1834, (cl. 

3 of Ordinance No. 22 of 1871.) 

C. E., Point Pedro, 41. ... ... ... ... 75 

Shipping. 

1. — Master and consignee — action for breach of contract — bill of 
lading — written agreement — evidence — implied promise. 

In an action brought by the master of a ship against the consignees 
oE certain machinery for breach of a contract to discharge the said ma- 
chinery within reasonable time after the arrival of the ship in Colombo, 
it appeared in evidence that the bill of lading signed by the master, though 
in the usual form, contained a marginal note which referred to a written 
agreement. Held that, in the absence of the written agreement, an 
implied promise on the part of the defendants, to unload with due diligence, 
could not be inferred from their acceptance of the goods under the terms, 
of the bill of lading. 

D. C, Colombo, 27,010 . . . . . . . . 25 

2. — Shipping — shipowner and merchant — time of payment of freight 
charterparty — deurrage — interest thereon. 

In the absence of an express stipulation as to the time and manner 
of payment of freight, the master is not bound to part with the goods 
until his freight is paid. 

Where according to the charterparty, the merchant was bound to 
take the cargo alongside and from the ship's tackle, but did not, held he 
was liable to pay demurrage. 

But such demurrage does not carry interest. 

D. C, Galle, 20,283 ... ... ... ... 141 

See Eeconvektion. 



Tenure of land. 

See "Mayoeaal." 

" NiNDEGAMA." 

Toll. 

1. — Bemoval of bar — -fine. 

No fine attaches, when the toll bar has heen put in a place different 
from that appointed by the Proclamation. 

P. C, Kalutara, 26,639 ... ... ... ... 129 

2.— Evasion of—cl. 17 of Ordinance No. 22 0/I86I [_cl. 17 of Ord. 
No. 4 of 1867.] 

The words " not being a public highway'' are to be read in con- 
junction with the word " land," and not with the word " road" which in 
that connection means the turnpike road itself. 

If there is a public highway running out of the turnpike road, a 
traveller may turn off into that public highway without being liable ; 
but if he shirks the toll by turning off the turnpike road over any adjacent 
land, not being the soil of a public highway, he is liable to the penalty. 

P. C, Negombo, 263 .. ... ... ... 143 

Tortious legal proceedings. 

1. — Want of corrupt motive — damages. 

"Where no malicious or corrupt motive in prosecuting^an action was 
alleged or proved, no action for damages will lie, even though inconvenience 
and pecuniary loss have been caused. 

D. C, Colombo, 24,345 ... ... ... ... 35 

Trespass. 

1 . — Cattle damage-feasant — damages. 

The owner of cattle damage-feasant is liable to pay all damages 
which are the natural and probable consequences of his allowing his 
cattle to stray on another's land, but not damages which are the remote 
or accidental consequences of such act. 

C. E., Newera Eliya, 2,576 ... ... ••• ■■. 19 

2. — Its nature. 

When of a civil or criminal nature. 

P. C. Jaffna, 27,760 .. ••• •• •• S5 

3. — Who may maintain. 

Any possession of real property is sufficient to entitle the possessor 
to sue a mere wrong-doer. If the plaintiff had no occupancy or actual 
possession but had merely the right to go .to tha estate occasionally for the 
purpose of inspecting it , or some other temp'orary purpose, he cannot 
maintain the suit. 

D. C, Kandy, 30,033 ... •■. •• ••• 19- 



26 

Voluntary payment. 

See Mistake, 1. 

Will. 

1. — Form of — when admitted to probate. 

An instrument, whatever be its form, may be admitted to probate ag 
testamentary if there is proof, either in the paper itself or from clear 
evidence dehors, first, that it was the intention of the writer of the paper 
to convey the benefits by the instrument which would be conveyed by 
it if considered as a will ; secondly, that death was the event that was 
to give efEect to it. 

D. C, Kandy, 314 ... ... ... ... 17 

Witness. 

1. — Batta. 

Batta and expenses of witnesses when allowable in case of post- 
ponement of case. 

D. C, Colombo, 19,758 .. ... .. .. 29 



COREIGENDA. 



Page, 

7. — dele tlie arguments of counsel. 
104 — line 17 from bottom — dele 'to h-'. unavailable.' 
11^ — ^line 11 from bottom — ^for defendant rea,A plaintiff. 
163— line 22 from top — for was read were. 



I860. 

lOth January. 

Present: — Steeling, A. C. J., Morgan, J. and Lawson, J. 

The Honorable Richard Francis Morgan and George Lawson 
Esquire, produce their warrants of appointment and take their oaths 
as Acting Senior Puisne Justice and Acting Junior Puisne Justice 
respectively. 



P. C. Kalutara, ) rr 7 /tt. * 

TVT 00777 r rernando v. lissera. 

The Supreme Court held as follows : — 

The title deed relied upon does not, in the opinion of the Su- paddv and 
preme Court, establish the exemption which the defendant claims. dry grain 

The Proclamation of the 3rd May, 1800, freed the tax which Ordinance- 
all lands within these settlements had to pay to Government, ( see Mcemptiou 
sec. 1, 8 and 10). Another dated at the 22nd April, 1803 directs "" 
that " in all cases where no share of the produce of the land trans- 
" ferred shall have been reserved to Government by any specific 
" grant or title, or by any general Legislative provision, a share is 
" to be reserved for Government," which is fixed at one-fifth in 
some and one-tenth in other places. 

The Proclamation of the 2nd March, 1824, expresses the 
intention of Government strictly to enforce and levy the fixed duty 
due to the Crown from the annual produce of all grounds ; and 
whilst it exempts lands planted with cofBee, cotton or pepper, 
expressly provides that nothing in it, the said Proclamation, 
contained shall be " construed or taken to affect or extend to 
" any low lands applied to the culture of paddy." 

It has also been the invariable custom in this, country for 
paddy lands to pay a share of the produce to the Government. 

The Ordinance No. 14 of 1840 provides that " there shall 
" continue to be levied by, and payable to. Government, a tax 
" of one-tenth, or such other proportion, of the crops of paddy 
" and dry grain in and upon all lands now liable there- 
" to as by law, custom, or usage, is at present levied or pay- 
" able." 

* Tlie record of this case is not forthcoming and is said to have been 
lost, The prosecution appears to be vinder cl, 14 of the Ord. No, 14 of 1840. 



1860. Under ttese circumstances, express words of relief -will be 

Jany. 18. necessary to exempt the land of the defendant from the usual 
payment. So far from any such occiurring in the deed now in 
question, it is distinctly stipulated therein, that "the land shall be 
" liable to such regulations as now exist, and as may hereafter be 
" enacted relative to landed property in general." 



18th January. 
Present:— BTEViLma, A. C. J., Morgan, J. and Lawson, J. 

^<T ^'o^m'l^' i Yattewatta v. Gordon. 

JNo. d0,917. J 

Evidence — This was an action of ejectment. PlaintifE, alleging himself 

Muraljna- ^q -jjg ^j^g giiigf priest of the Asgeri Wihare, based his title to the 

jSjSfent'deed ^^^"^ ™ question on a royal sannas or grant to the temple of which 

' he was the present incumbent. Defendant claimed the land 

by virtue of two crown grants. The crown intervened in support 

of defendant's title. 

The sannas relied upon by the plaintiff was inscribed on the 
back of the rock-wall of the temple and purported to be a dedica- 
tion to the temple by the late King of Kandy, Sree Wickrame Ea- 
ja Sinha, and his mother. 

The learned District Judge in an elaborate judgment held 
(1) that there was an inscription on the rock wall, containing the 
words set forth in the Sinhalese document filed in the case ; (2) that 
that inscription constituted a royal sararaa« or grant of the lands there- 
in named to the temple; and (3) that the' temple had not lost its 
title; and he accordingly decreed that the defendant be ejected from 
the premises. 

On appeal, the Queen's Advocate and Berwick, D. Q. A. 
appeared for the intervenient and appellant ; and DuniLwille for 
respondent. 

The following is the judgment of the Supreme Court: — 

The Supreme Court entirely approves of the finding of the 
District Judge, as to the genuineness of the mural inscription on 
which the claim of the plaintiff is founded, and concurs generally 
with him in the reasons adduced by him in support of this conclu- 
sion. Upon this subject it is unnecessary to add anything; and it 
only remains to notice the objections, which have been raised at 
the bar, relating (1) to the admissibility of the document in ques- 
tion in evidence; (2) to its legal validity and effect; (3) to its ap- 
plication to the land in dispute; (4) to the want of possession 
under the deed ; (5) to the character in which the present plaintiff 



1. It is objected that tlie mural inscription ought not to be I860, 
proved in evidence, because it is not an original document, the '^^^Y- lo- 
transfer intended by the' King of Kandy having, as it is alleged, 

been completed by the puskola deed, of which the inscription is a 
copy. The Court is rather of opinion that the inscription on the 
rock should be considered as the original and principal document, 
being intended by the King to remain as a perpetual memorial o£ 
his donation, and that the puskola deed should only be regarded 
as the rough draft, from which the principal deed was to be 
copied; but it is needless to decide this point because this Court is 
clearly of opinion that, if the puskola deed is the original, and the 
rock inscription the copy, there is sufficient evidence to accoimt for 
the non-production of the former, and to establish the accuracy of 
the latter. It is reasonable to conclude that the puskola would 
be. regarded as superfluous after the completion of the inscription ; 
and the plaintiff tells us that there are no deeds relating to the 
Alut Wihare except the rock inscription. The Supreme Court 
cannot think it necessary that search should be made amongst the 
the title deeds of the other priests of Asgiri Wihare, who are the 
incumbents of other temples connected with that establishment, but 
in no way interested in the Alut Wihare, nor likely to have 
custody of its title deeds ; and this is the only search which has 
been suggested at the bar as necessary. The accuracy of the copy 
is proved by the cornparison made between it and the puskola, ia 
the presence of the King, which resulted in the King bestowing 
praises on the stone cutter for the fidelity of the transcription. 

2. It is said that the deed can have no legal force or validity, 
because it excepts the muttettoo lands from the operation of the 
grant, and consequently reserves to the King the former services of 
the nilacarayas, and at the same time grants the other lands of 
the village to the temple, thereby creating a claim on its part 
to new services, in addition to the old, which, as it is urged, would 
be beyond the power of the Crown. This Court must put 
such a construction upon the deed as may give it some force and 
meaning, rather than one which would render it inoperative ; and if 
the construction contended for would have the effect attributed to 
it, the Supreme Court must hold that the reservation of the mutet- 
too fields was intended merely to apply to the land, and not to the 
services incident to it. Further, it is argued that the deed is void, 
because it purports to be the act of the Queen-mother, and her 
consent to it is not proved; but this Court holds that her presence 
in the temple, when the grant was made by the King in her name, 
is sufficient proof of her acquiescence in the grant, and of hia 
having acted under her authority. 

3. It is contended that the services in question relate only to 
a portion of the land in dispute, and that the intention of the king 



1860. and Queen was to grant only such portion of the Wgli lands of 
Jany. 18. Udu Asgeria as were appurtenances of the paddy field, transferred 
to the temple. This is the most substantial of the objections raised 
by the counsel, but an inspection of the transfer deed will prove 
that the grant cannot be limited. The Queen grants to the temple 
from the village Udu Asgeria, the fields included within certain 
specified boundaries, excepting the mutteioo fields, and adds a 
grant of all the high and low grounds, intending, as the Court is 
• clearly of opinion, to transfer the whole of the royal chenas and 
other high lands in the village to which the Crown was entitled, 
except the appurtenances of the muttetoo, if any such there be, of 
which this Court has no proof. There are no words to limit or 
confine the expression " together with the high and low lands out 
of the village Udu Asgeria," so as to exclude from their operation 
any land within the village, the property of the donors, except the 
muttetoo and its appurtenances. If there be, as suggested, other 
private and temple lands within these boundaries, this judgment is 
not binding with respect to them, and gives only to the temple what 
the King and Queen gave, and had the power to give. 

4. It is argued that an ancient deed should be accompanied 
by proof of possession thereunder, and that such proof is wanting 
in the present case ; but the Supreme Court is of opinion that there 
is proof, both of ancient and modern possession under the deed, 
and of the performance of service to the temple, sufficient to shew 
that the deed was acted on, and that further proof of possession is 
not required. 

Lastly, it is objected that the plaintiff sues as the priest of 
the Asgiri Wihare, and that he only proves title as priest of the 
Alut Wihare. The fact is that plaintiff holds both offices, and the, 
objection as to the pleading would be met by a slight alteration of 
the libel ; but the Supreme Court is of opinion that no such amend- 
ment is necessary, as it is proved that the Alut "Wihare is the pro- 
perty of the Asgeri Wihare, and therefore that the priest of the 
latter has a right to sue for the injury done to the former, by 
which the interest of his own temple is prejudiced. 



No 28620 r ^^^ Queen's Advocate v. Gordon. 

The Supreme Court is of opinion that further evidence may 

genuineness be adduced to throw light upon the genuineness of the sannas. 

of' This evidence should relate to the language in which the sannas 

is expressed, and its correspondence with the style in use in like 

instruments of the same period f and the opinion of learned persons 

skilled in the Pali language should be taken oii this point ; it 



should also be ascertained -whetlier the description of the high 1860. 
lands by boundaries, as given in this sannas, was customary, and Jaiiy. 26. 
comparison should be made with other sannases of unquestioned 
genuineness. 

The evidence should shew in what custody the sannas has 
remained, and should account for the long delay in giving notice 
of its existence. 



86th January. 

Present : — Sterling, A. C. J. and Moegan, J. 

D. C. Kandy, ) In the matter of the Intestate Estate of Mollegodde 
No. 338. J Coomarihamy, deceased 

This was a contest for letters of administration. There were Kandvan 

four applicants, the first being the paternal aunt, the second the law— ^eeraa 

beena husband, the third the half brother, and the fourth the husband — 

sister of the intestate. Administra- 

The District Judge granted the letters to the first applicant. p «~ •_ 

On appeal by the beena husband, Edema, Lorenz and Riist 
appeared for him, and Dias for respondent. 

The Court held as follows : — 

The Supreme Court concurs with the District Court in finding 
that the beena husband has no right to, or interest in, his wife's 
estate after her death. Such has always been the received con- 
struction of the Kandyan law on this subject, and the Supreme 
Court has failed to discover any good reason or authority to induce 
it to doubt the correctness of such construction. The case in the 
Judicial Comissioner's Court, (Diary, August, 1829, No. 3133.) 
referred to by the learned counsel for the appellant, (the 2nd 
applicant), would seem to. depend more upon the construction given 
to the deed referred to in the judgment, than to a deliberate consi- 
deration of the abstract law on the subject. 

It has been urged in siipport of the appeal that the beena 
husband has, at least, an interest in the property acquired during 
coverture. This plea was only taken however in the petition of 
appeal ; the only question submitted to the District Court, at the 
hearing, having been, that relating to the interest of a beena hus- 
band in his wife's estate. This plea involves an issue of fact, and 
the Supreme Court cannot allow the appellant to take it for the 
first time in appeal. 

In his original application, the appellant relied upon a deed, 
by which his wife was said to have conveyed all her property to 
him. This deed, if established, would have given the appellant an 
all-sufliicient interest in his wife's estate, and an undoubted right to 



1 %0 represent the same. Its genuineness was however denied by the 
Ja ly. 28. respondent, and yet, at the trial, the appellant called no evidence to 
prove that deed. 

Under these circumstances, and considering the necessity of 
a speedy decision in these administration suits, and that an 
affirmance of this order will not deprive the appellant of an oppor- 
tunity to estahlish, if able to do so, his interest in his wife's estate, 
either under the deed, or in respect of the property acquired after 
converture, the Supreme Court considers that the oi-der of the 
District Court should be, and the same is hereby, affirmed. Costs 
to be paid out of the estate. 



SStk Januan/. 
Present: — Steeling, A. C. J. and Morgan, J. 
i^'noqKA ' f Zefferino Godtnho v. Perera and others. 

rieht toehold '^^^ plaintifE, (a Goa priest, who had been resident in Ceylon 

land.fi, and to fo^" 20 years,) sued in ejectment under the following circum- 
sue. stances. On the 23rd January, 1851, the plaintiff purchased a 

garden for £150 and employed his servant, the first defendant, 
to get the deed of sale drawn in plaintiff's favor, but the first 
defendant, with a view to defraud the plaintiff and in breach of the 
confidence reposed in him, procured the vendor to execute the deed 
in his, the defendant's, own favor. 

Shortly after the execution of the deed, the plaintiff discovered 
the fraud, and threatened to charge the first defendant before a 
justice, btit at the earnest request of the first defendant and one 
Cassimero not to expose the first defendant, the plaintiff desisted 
on the first defendant's solemn promise not to dispute the plain- 
tiff 's right to the land, or to disttirb his possession thereof. 
The plaintiff alleged that since 1851 he remained. in possession of 
the land till November, 1857, when the first defendant having 
attempted to set up in himself a title, he, the plaintiff, was obliged 
to institute the present suit. The plaintiff prayed for a declara- 
tion of his right to the land and for a cancellation of the deed in 
favor of the first defendant. 

. The defence set up was that the land was purchased by the 
first defendant, and that he borrowed the purchase money from 
the plaintiff; that out of the money so borrowed (£150), he, the 
first defendant, paid plaintiff £110, leaving a balance of £40 still 
due, which he, the first defendant, offered to pay to plaintiff. 
Upon these pleadings, the case came on for trial, and several 
witnesses were called by the plaintiff to prove the allegations in.the 



libel. The defendants called no witnesses, but it was contended 18G0. 

for him that the plaintiff, upon his own admission, being an alien, Jany. 28. 

could not hold real property in Ceylon, ^nd therefore could not — 
maintain the action. 

The District Judge over-ruled the objection on the authority 
of Mayor of Lyons v. the East India Company, 1 Moore's P. C. 
Eep., and gave judgment for the plaintiff, absolving all but the 
first defendant. The first defendants appealed. 

The Queen's Advocate (with him Rnst) for appellants: It 
appeared from the evidence that plaintiff was in the habit of getting 
deeds drawn up in the name of his servants, though he, the plaintiff, 
was the party beneficially interested. The present was an attempt 
by the plaintiff, admittedly an alien, to set up a right to land, 
through the interposition of a third party, a proceeding wholly void 
and illegal as being opposed to the policy of the Law. [ Morgan, 
J., — The case here is different. The plaintiff employed the first 
defendant to see the deed drawn in plaintiff"'8 own favor, but the 
first defendant practised a fraud upon the plaintiff by taking a 
transfer for himself. Steeling, C. J., — I do not think Alien law 
forms part of the law of this Colony.] I admit that under the 
Eoman Dutch Law, aliens have all the rights and privileges of 
subjects except admission to public offices,! Burge Col. and For. 
Law, p. 696, Vander Linden's /wsiti. 66. But the law of aliens 
is a part of the prerogative law of allegiance, which follow the 
footsteps of the crown into aU its possessions, 1 and 2 Blacks. Comm., 
Chitty on Prerog., Wheaton's Intemat. Law, Harrison's Dig. tit 
"Foreigner," Vattel's Intemat. Law &c. That being so, does the case 
of Mayor of Lyons v. The East India Company make any differ- 
ence ? [McEGAN, J. — If the plaintiff is not entitled to the land, 
who else is?] The crown. [Morgan, J., — But the crown is no 
party to the suit. We might decree the land to the plaintiff, with 
out prejudice to the rights of the crown.] 

Dias (with him W. Morgan, and Lorenz ) was heard for the 
respondent on the merits. 

The Court held as follows : 

The decree of the court below must be amended and the deed 
in question declared to enure to the benefit of the plaintiff for 
whom and on whose account the premises it refers to was pur- 
chased, and the first defendant condemned to reconvey such pre- 
mises to the plaintiff at his own expense ; the first defendant ia 
further condemned to pay £50 sterling damages and the costs of 
the plaintiff and the other defendants in the District Court and in 
appeal. 

The Supreme Court concurs with the District Coui-t in the 



1860. view it takes of the merits, the amendment above directed being 
Feb. 28. merely Avith a view to form. 

— It is unnecessary to decide the question as to the right of aliens 

to hold lands, as the crown asserts no claim to the premises and the 
plaintiff is undoubtedly entitled to the same as against the defen- 
dant. 

In view of the fraudulent nature of the first defendant's con- 
duct he is condemned to pay the costs not only of the plaintiff, but 
of all the other defendants. 



28th Febnianj. 
Present : — Morgan, J. and Lawson, J. 



D. C. Colombo, 
No. 21,041. 



Aserappa v. Silva, 



■practice — Plaintiff prayed in his libel that he may he declared the owner 

J!°*™f 7~ of certain lands and the defendaiits may be ejected therefrom, and 
decree. plaintiff may be put and placed in possession of the same. 

The District Judge, after evidence heard, decreed that " plain- 
tifE be declared entitled to, and placed in possession- of, the land 
claimed in the libel," without however adding that defendant be 
ejected therefrom. 

The plaintiff sued out a writ of possession and by virtue 
thereof the Fiscal directed the ' plaintiff to take possession of the 
land in question, but refused to eject the defendant who would not 
give up possession. Thereupon the plaintiff moved for a rule 
against the defendant to shew cause why the judgment should not 
be revived with costs and a fresh writ should not issue to eject the 
defendant and to put and place the plaintiff in possession of the 
said lands. The rule was granted, and on a subsequent day made 
absolute, but without costs : against which order, disallowing costs, 
the plaintiff appealed. 

' On appeal {Lorem for appellant), the order as to costs was set 
aside, and costs of the rule allowed to the plaintiff, in these terms : — 

The judgment declaring petitioner " entitled to, and to be 
placed in possession of, the land," authorized the ejectment of the 
defendants therefrom. Unless such a judgment expressly reserves 
the defendant's right to pessession, or piirports to be made -without 
prejudice to such right, — which is sometimes done in the case of 
planters or parties entitled to joint possession, — it necessarily 
involves the ejectment of the defendant ; for the plaintiff cannot be 
said to be put into possession, (which, unless qualified as above 



stated, means nbsolute, full possession) as against the defendant, if 
sxicla defendant is allowed to remain in possession also. 



18G0. 
Feb. 29. 



C. R. Jaffna, 1 
No. 24540. J 



Fernando v. Nicolan. 



Per Curiam : — Claims of preference and concurrence should be 
decided summarily by the Court which issues the writ of execution 
under which the claims are made ; and parties should not be 
referred to a new suit, unless they are at issue upon material alle- 
gations, which cannot be conveniently tried and determined in the 
original cause. 



Practice— 

Uiaims of 
preference 
■• n i concur- 
rence. 



a9th February. 

Present: — Morgan, J. and Laatson, J. 

D. C. Kandy, \ Nannytamby v. Assignees of the insolvent estate 
No. 31273. J ' of F. Hudson cj- Co. 

The plaintiff averred in his libel that Francis Hudson a part- 
ner of the firm of F. Hudson 4' Co. became indebted to the plaintiff 
Upon his bond in the penal sum of £12000, and as security for the 
same mortgaged certain stock and assigned certain debts belonging 
and due to his business in Kandy; that the plaintiff upon the 
bond advanced £ 500 and promised to make fui-ther advances, not 
exceeding £ 6000, and that the said Hudson undertook after 
two months' notice to refund all sums so advanced, and also to pay 
interest quarterly at 12 o/o ; that plaintiff, in terms of the said 
bond, advanced from time to time the sum of £ 4556. 3. 6. And 
the plaintiff further alleged that the said Hudson delivered 
over to him the possession of such stock, debts &c., as he had, and 
did not pay to him, the plaintiff, the whole or any part of the sums 
advanced as aforesaid. And the plaintiff now complained that the 
defendants, cljiiming to be assignees of the insolvent estate of 
F. Hudson 4' Co. forcibly took possession of the said stock and 
debis mortgaged and delivered to the plaintiff and disputed plain- 
tiff's right thereto, to his damage of £ 6000. He prayed that the 
defendants may he adjudged to deliver over to him the said stock 
and debts, or to pay to him £ 6000 as damages, and that the said 
stock, debts &c. may be declared specially bound and executable 
fi/r the same. 



Loan to part- 
ner — 
Mortgage by 

him of 
partnership 
pioperty — 
Power of at- 
torney — 
Subsequent 
ratification — 
Benefit of the 
firm. 



10 

1860. The defendants {D'Esterre and Willie) admitted that Francis 

Feb. 29. Hudson executed the bond under which the plaintiff claimed, but 
— stated that he, Hudson, did not thereby, nor had he any right 

to, mortgage with plaintiff the stock, debts &c, belonging to 
the firm of Hudson and Joseph Viseardi, neither did plaintiff 
advance for the use of the said firm any sums of money whatso- 
ever, neither had Hudson any right to put plaintiff in pos- 
session of the stock, debts &c, of the said firm. And the defen- 
dants further pleaded that at the time when Hudson executed the 
bond, he was carrying on business in Colombo with one Wesche, 
under the firm of Hudson and Wesche, and in Kandy with one 
Viseardi, under the firm of F. Hudson ^ Co. and that both the said 
firms were notoriously insolvent, which the plaintiff well knew ; and 
that Francis Hudson, intending to cheat the creditors of the said 
firm of Hudson 4r Co., fraudulently executed the said bond without 
any consideration, so far as the said firm of Hudson ^ Co. was 
concerned ; and that any sums advanced under the said bond were 
advanced for the benefit of Hudson and Wesche, and that • Hudson 
had no right individually to mortgage the stock, debts &c, of the 
Kandy business, of all which plaintiff had notice. And the defen- 
dants further pleaded that Hudson and Viseardi during their 
partnership and at the time of their insolvency were jointly entitled 
to the goods, chattels and debts which were in the stores of, and due to, 
F. Hudson 4" Co. Also that on the 9th March 1858, the said firm 
of F. Hudson 4r Co. became indebted to Nicol, Cargill ^ Co. in the 
sum of £6418, and to other persons in large sums of money and 
became insolvents ; and that a petition was presented at the instance 
of Nicol, Cargill ^ Co. to the District Court of Kandy for the 
sequestration of the said estate of Hudson and Viseardi ; that on the 
12th March 1858, Hudson ajid Viseardi were declared insolventsand 
the Court sequestered the estate ; that under the authority of the Court, 
the Fiscal of the-Central Province entered into possession of the goods, 
chattels and effects aforesaid, and that subsequently the defendants 
were duly appointed assigneesof the estate and effects of the said insol- 
vents, and the aforesaid goods, chattels and effects of the said firm of 
F. Hudson & Co. were by the Fiscal peaceably delivered to the 
said Assignees on the 12th May 1858, which was the forcible 
possession complained of by the plaintiff. Defendants prayed for 
judgment in their_£avour. 

A general replication was filed. 

The District Judge held that the defendants in their capacity 
of assignees, were lawfully in possession of the goods chattels and 
effects of the late firm of Francis Hudson ^ Co. and non-suited plain- 
tiff mainly on the ground that the bond upon which he sued waa 
granted by Hudson individually for loans to be made to him. 



11 

and not by Hudson and Viscardi trading together as Hudson ^ 1860. 
Co, or by Hudson for bimself and as tlie attorney of Viscardi. Feb. 29. 

On appeal preferred by the plaintiff, Lor em (with him Dias and 
Dunitwille) appeared for appellant ; Bust for respondents. 

The Court held as follows : — 

The principal objection made to the petitioner's case and upon 
which the judgment of the District Court dismissing it was based, 
is that the bond, upon which he sues, was granted by Hudson in- 
dividually for loans to be made to him, and not by Hudson and 
Viscardi, trading together as Hudson 4" Co., or by Hudson for 
himself and as the attorney of Viscardi. It is clear that both in 
the body of the instrument and in the signature, Hudson is 
personally referred to ; but though such is the case, it is equally 
clear that the goods pledged by Hudson, as security for the debt, 
on the faith of which credit was given him by the plaintiff, were 
" all the stock in trade, goods, office furniture, wares and merchan- 
" dize then being or hereafter to be in his stores in Kandy, posses- 
" sion whereof he (Hudson) with those presents delivered to the 
" plaintiff; and all accounts and all sums of money whatsoever, 
" which then were or hereafter might be or become due or owing 
" to him on account of the said Kandy business." Looking only 
to the bond, the case presents itself as one in which a partner 
pledges the property of the firm for his individual debt; and the 
first question for consideration is this, Is such security operative 
and valid as against the firm? "It would seem," says Smith in 
his Mercantile Law, p. 41, " that the unexplained fact that a part- 
" nership security has been received from one of the partners in 
" discharge of a separate claim against himself is a badge of fraud, 
" or of such palpable negligence as amounts to fraud, which it is 
" incumbent on the party who so took the security to remove by 
" shewing either that the partner from whom he received it acted 
" under the authority of the rest, or at least that he himself had 
,'! reason to believe so." " Although this," says Story in his work 
on Partnership, " is the general doctrine in the absence of all con- 
" trolling circumstances, yet the presumption of any fraud or mis- 
" application may be reliutted by the circumstances of the particu- 
" lar case." Thus it may be shewn " that the other partners have 
" directly or by fair implication authorized or confirmed the appli- 
^' cation of the partnership funds, securities, effects or credits to the 
" very purpose; or that the partner had acquired, with the consent 
" of his partners, an exclusive interest therein, or that, from other 
" circumstances, the transaction was actually bona fide and unex- 
" ceptionable, although it went to the discharge of the private debt 
" by one partner only. For it has been very justly remarked that 
" the application of a single partner of a joint security in discharge 



12 

1860. " of Ms individual debt by no means necessarily establishes that it 

Feb. 29. " is a fraud upon the firm, for it may not only have been expressly 

" authorized by the firm, laut it may frequently result from pru- 

" dential considerations and aiTangements referrable to their own 

" business and interests." 

It is necessary to consider ■whether there is any such autho- 
rity or controlling circumstances in the case. 

It is proved in evidence, that at the time Hudson executed the 
bond in question, he held a powei> of attorney from Viscardi, the 
only other partner of Viscardi ^ Co., giving him power to " make 
" any sales, mortgages, leases, assignments of leases, exchanges or 
" dispositions as should or might be necessary or proper of any 
" plantations or estates, or other lands, and cattle, stock, crop, pro- 
" duce or other property, goods and effects whatsoever to or in 
" which the said firm of Viscardi Sf Co., or he, the said J. 
" Viscardi individually and apart from the said firm in his own 
" right, should or might be entitled or interested." With reference 
to the firm of J. Viscardi ^ Co. it may be necessary here to ex- 
plain that that was a firm which did business in Kandy up to the 
12th November, 1857, when it was put an end to by a notice 
which was published in the local newspapers, and which set out 
that the business in future would be carried on by another firm 
then established, in which Hudson and Viscardi were to be the 
partners, and which was to be carried on under " the style and firm 
of F. Hudson ^ Co." to and by which the said new firm all ac- 
coimts due to and by the old firm were made payable. 

It is clear that this power of attorney authorized Hudson, at 
the time he executed the bond, to pledge all Viscardfs right to or 
interest in the Kandy stock. But it is objected that to bind Vis- 
cardi, Hudson ought to have executed the instrument as an attor- 
ney, and that the power given must be held to have been revok- 
ed by the dissolution of the firm of Viscardi Sf Co., published ia 
the notice already referred to. 

Both these objections are of a formal character. With refer- 
ence to the first, this Court cannot, as a Court of Equity, allow an 
error in description to have weight, if Hudson really meant, as he 
undoubtedly did, to act for his partner and pledge his partner's 
property, and had substantially the power to do so. Hudson him- 
self would not be allowed to take such an objection; nor can his 
partner do so after giving him the unlimited powers he did, and 
enabling him to make what dispositions of the property he pleased. 
It follows, that others acting for such partner, and in his stead and 
interest, cannot do so either. But jDledge of personal property, 
such as the Kandy stock, need not be made by deed, simple delivery 
of possession would be sufficient. (Ordinance No. 7 of 1852, ol. 22.) 
The case is not therefore one in which any deed with formal re- 



13 

quisites is necessary. The simple question for inquiry is, had Hud- 1860. 
son at the time he pledged Viscardi's share and interest, a right to Feb. 29. 
do so. ? and this the power of attorney, which he held at the time, 
must decide in the affirmative. 

If, however, the power of attorney had no operation at the 
time, the proof of authority would, under this head, be wanting. 
But the Supreme Court cannot hold that the power was revoked by 
the dissolution of the firm of J. Viscardi Sf Co. The power was 
executed by Viscardi on the 10th November preparatory to his 
leaving Ceylon. The notice in question is dated the 12th Novem- 
ber; both these acts were obviously in furtherance of the same de- 
sign, to clothe Hudson with free powers to act for Viscardi, both 
as attorney and partner; and it certainly was not intended by the 
parties that one should supersede or put an end to the other. No- 
thing but a positive rule of law having such effect, will induce the 
Coui't to hold, contrary to the manifest intention of the parties, 
that the one must operate as a revocation of the other, and there is 
no such rule. 

It must be also recollected that the power given to Hudson 
was with reference to Viscardi's property, not only as a member of 
the firm of Viscardi Sf Co., but to all which he, Viscardi, was 
entitled to, and interested in, individually, and apart from the said 
firm. 

For these reasons, the Supreme Court holds that the power of 
attorney shows that Hudson had full authority to act for Viscardi 
Sf Co., and that the presumption of fraud or misapplication by a 
partner of partnership security is rebutted. 

If Hudson was authorised to pledge his partner's property 
under the power of attorney, it is immaterial to ent[uire how far 
a partner can, as such, pledge firm property, and whether such 
pledge is within or without the scope of their business, — objections 
which can only apply where there is no express authority, and 
where a ^partner acts under the implied authority, which attaches 
to his character as such. 

In addition to the power of attorney, a letter was proved in 
evidence dated the 21st January, written by Hudson if Co. to 
Mr. Brown of Kandy, whom the petitioner had appointed to take 
charge for him of the goods in Kandy, informing him that they had 
given plaintiff " a mortgage upon stock and debts together, with 
fixtures of their store in Kandy," and that Mr. Merritt was in pos- 
session of the premises for the plaintiff. Here is a proof of ratifica- 
tion by Hudson Sf Co. of what was done by F. Hudson. And 
even where a transaction is prima facie fraudulent against a firm, 
which there is nothing to shew this to have been, yet it will bind 
them, if they subsequently approve of it. (Smith p. 47 ; CoUyer 
p. 357 ; Ex parte Bonbonus, 8 Ves. 544.) 



u 

1860. Having considered the evidence in support of the assent and 

Feb. 29. ratification by Hudson ^ Co. of the act of F. Hudson, it is neces- 

sary further to enquire, whether or not there are other circumstances 

to rebut the presumption of fraud or misapplication which the act 

unexplained would give rise to. 

In the ordinary case of a partner pledging -firm property, he» 
in giving partnership security for a private debt due by him, 
commits an act for his own exclusive gain, and to the prejudice of 
his co-partners. But such can hardly be predicated of the state 
and result of the transaction now in question. Hxidson and Viscardi 
were partners of the firm of Hudson ^ Co., trading in Kandy, 
Gampola, &c. and Hudson and Wesche at Colombo. Viscardi 
originally purchased the Kandy business from Hudson for seven 
thousand pounds, in payment of which he gave fourteen promis- 
sory notes for five hundred pounds each. But two, or at most 
three, of the notes were paid, the others were afloat at the tim^. 
Viscardi purposed to leave the Island, when Hudson, jointly liable on 
these notes, which had been made over to Nicol Cargill Sf Co., 
became his partner. It is clear that Hudson was in very embar- 
rassed circumstances. Mr. Richmond, partner of Nicol Cargill ^ 
Co., his largest creditors, swears that he was notoriously insolvent, 
though he does not say the same of Hudson S; Co. Assistance - 
rendered to Hudson, therefore, enured to the benefit of the firm, 
and it was under these circumstances that Hudson pledged the 
credit of the firm, not for a pre-existing debt incurred by him on 
his own separate responsibility, but for the purpose of including 
the plaintiff thereafter to make such advances as he (Hudson) from 
time to time would require and call for. These are patent circum- 
stances to rebut the presumption of fraud or misapplication in the 
partner pledging firm property, and the creditor receiving such 
pledge. Referring to circumstances not unlike these. Lord Eldoij 
observed in ex parte Bonbonus (S Ves. 544), " There is no doubt 
" now, the law has taken this course : that if under the circumstances, 
" the party taking the paper can be considered as being advertised 
" in the nature of the transaction, that it was not intended to be a 
" partnership proceeding as if it was for an antecedent debt, prima 
"facie, it will not bind them ; but it will, if you show previous 
" authority or subsequent approbation, a strong case of subsequent 
" approbation raising an inference of previous positive authority. 
" In many cases of partnership and difEerent private concerns, it ia 
" frequently necessary, for the salvation of the partnership, that the 
" private demand of one partner should be satisfied at the moment ; 
" for the ruin of one partner would spread to the others, who would 
" rather let him liberate himself by dealing with the firm." 

It appears to the Supreme Court that, whilst the power of 
attorney and letter shew previous assent and subseqiient approba- 



15 

tion, all the circumstances of the case effectually rebut the pre- 1860. 
sumption of fraud or misapplication, which would be necessary to Feb. 29. 
render the security given by Hudson to the plaintiff inoperative as 
against the firm of Hudson 6) Co. The bond must therefore be 
upheld for such advances as were bona fide made under it. 

What were those advances ? Going through the account filed 
with the libel with reference to the evidence, the Supreme Court 
considers that the items proved are the 1 , 4 ,7, 9, 12, 15, 22, 27, 28, 
31, and 32nd, amounting in the aggregate to three thousand and 
thirty pounds, fifteen shillings and nine pence. The 0, 6, 10, 13, 
16, and 29 items amounting to sixty one pounds, four shillinga and 
eight pence, represent interest. The 2, 5, 8, 11, 14, 17, 18, 19, 
20, 21, 23, and 30, being for commissions and guarantee, do not 
properly come under the bond and must be disallowed. The 24th 
item represents a claim of seven hundred and fifty two pounds, 
fourteen shillings and six pence, being a debt alleged to be due by 
Hudson to Mr. Brown, with interest and commission superadded, and 
which the plaintiff says he undertook to pay. The undertaking, 
however, is contingent upon the item being allowed the plaintiff as 
against Mr. Hudson, and it appears further that Mr. Brown has 
proved for this very item against the Insolvent Estate. Under these 
circumstances, this item also is disallowed. Deducting these, the 
amount to be allowed the plaintiff would be, principal and interest, 
three thousand and ninety two pounds and five pence. 

The greater part of the items are payments due by Hudson 
and Wesche, as appears from the face of the documents under which 
the advances were made by plaintiff, and they have hence been 
objected to by the defendants. But the plaintiff having been bound 
by the bond to make such advances as Hudson called for, and 
having obtained possession of the property pledged, to cover such 
advances, it was not for him to see to their application, nor, when 
Hudson called for any, could he object to make the same, on the 
ground that it was due on one account and not on the other. 
Besides it has already been shown that, such was the state of 
accounts and dealings that every farthing advanced to Hudson 
helped the firm of Hudson and Co. And the same observation 
may be made as respects the Kandy and Colombo firms, the princi- 
pal work done by them seeming to consist in one drawing bills 
Tjpon and making notes in favour of the other, by discounting 
which funds were raised. A large amount of these bills and notes 
were constantly afloat, and Mr. Wesche swears that, on the 20th 
January, 1858 there was a balance due by Hudson Sf Co. to 
Hudson and Wesche of two thousand and sixty pounds, and " that 
Mr Hudson instructed him to consider the amounts advanced by 
plaintiff as replacement of the amount due by Hudson and Co., but 
that he himself did not make any entry to this effect, because he 



IC 

18C0. kept the account open until the \vhole amount was paid." On the 
Feb. 29. 12th March, 1858, when Hudson and Co. were declared insolvents, 
— the balance of thejr old-standing accounts with Hudson and Wesche 

was one thousand nine hundred and fifty one poimds, nineteen 
shillings and nine pence in favor of the latter. To this extent, at 
least, the creditors of Hudson and Co. were directly benefited 
by the advances made by plaintifi, whilst the connection between 
the two firms with each other, and between Hudson and both the 
firms, was such that advances made on his order, whether to him 
or to the Colombo fii'm, indirectly at least benefited the firm in 
ICandy, whose property was pledged. The ruin of Hudson must 
have spi-ead, as it eventually did, to both firms, and they were 
interested in upholding his credit. 

These observations furnish also an answer to another objection, 
made by the learned counsel for the defendants, that the trans- 
action was in fraud of Hudson Sf Co., in respect of which it must 
be further remembered that there is no evidence to shew that at 
the time the securities were given Hudson Sf Co. were not solvent. 
The contrary must be inferred from the evidence of Mr. Richmond. 

The Supreme Court has all along assumed that plaintiff had 
possession of the goods pledged to him, and this it has done not 
only on the evidence of Mr. Brown and Martin Ambrose, who were 
called as witnesses by the plaintiff, but on that of Mr. Gray, who 
was called by defendants. The facts established by him that 
Mr. Brown took stock, was always there, kept the keys of the es- 
tablishment, and that his clerk used to open the store in the morn- 
ings and close it in the evenings, are strongly corroborative of the 
plaintiff's testimony on this head, and indeed sufficient in them- 
selves to shew that Mr. Broivn had possession. Reference was made 
at the bar to the criminal case brought against Mr. Brown, and in 
which he was convicted. But all that the Court found in that case 
was that Brown was not justified in forcibly expelling the Fiscal 
who had taken possession of the store, under the orders of the 
Coiu-t, and was ia such possession at the time the force was applied. 
Whether il/r. Merritt, who had ostensible charge of the store at the 
time, had such charge when the Fiscal entered and took the keys— 
Mr. Brown says, most improperly, stole them — for the insolvents 
or for the plaintiff, was not then enquired into and determined. 
The evidence taken in this case shews clearly however that Merritt 
had charge of the store under Brown, for the plaintiff. 

For the reasons given above, the Supreme Court is of opinion 
that the pledge must be upheld, to the extent of the advances already 
ref(>rrcd to, three thousand and ninety-two pounds and five pence, 
for wliicli plaintiff is entitled judgment. Consid'^ring, however 
that he has claimed much more than he now recovers, and that 



17 

under all the circumstances the assignees had fair reason to put 1860. 
the plaintifE to the proof of his case, the costs should be divided. Feb. 29. 



D. C. Kandj, \ In the matter of the goods and chattels of Juan 
No. 314. J Appoo, deceased. 

On the question whether the document propounded was a deed instruments 
of gift or a will, the Supreme Court remanded the case for the Dis- not purport- 
trict Court to take proof of the document as a Last Will, and to ^^S to ^^ 
issue administration with the will annexed. It held as follows: — !!!whe™*ad^ 

The true principle to be deduced from the authorities, appears mitted to 
to be, says Williams, in his book on Executors vol.1, p. 91 (5th Edn.), probate. 
" that if there is proof, either in the paper itself, or from clear evi- 
" dence dehors, first, that it was the intention of the writer of the 
" paper to convey the benefits by the instrument which would be 
" conveyed by it if considered as a Will; secondly, that death was 
" the event that was to give efEect to it; then whatever be its form, 
" it may be admitted to probate, as testamentary." 

The translation upon which the District Court proceeded, con- 
tained the words " to be possessed by him henceforward for ever as 
his parveny property," which would indicate that the disposition was 
to take effect from the time of the execution: but " henceforward" 
does not appear in the original. It is executed before five witnesses, 
which is the number required for a last will; and not before a No- 
tary and two witnesses, as is necessary in case of deeds conveying 
lands. Its being called a hand-note or rather acquittance, and the 
provision as respects a more perfect instrument, can make no 
difference. It was held in Masterman v. Maberly, 2 Hag. 247, 
that " if the paper contains a disposition of the property to 
" be made after death, though it were meant to operate as a 
" settlement or a deed of gift, or a bond, though such paper 
" were not intended to be a Will, or other testamentary 
" instrument but an instrument of a different shape ; yet, if it 
" cannot operate in the latter, it may nevertheless operate in 
" the former character." The document in question, not being 
notarial, cannot operate as a deed, and the fact that it was made 
when the deceased was in extremis — for according to the affidavit 
of death he died on the same day that he signed the paper (22nd 
July, 1858) — and the reference made in it to his illness, as well 
as the fact already adverted to — that it is attested by five 
witnesses — are all indicative of his intention, that the document was 
to operate as a Will, and to take effect after death. 



18 

1860. 1st March. 

March. 1. 

— Present : — Moegan, J. and Lawson, J. 

N ' ^7 7 ?4. °' I Dona Bastiana v. Menchy Hamy. 

Illegal con- The plaintifi in this case claimed £5, being money lent and 

tract— Money advanced by her to tlie defendant, and interest. The defendant 
pawn in denied the plaintiff's claim to • £5, but admitted to have borrowed 
breach of Ord. and received only £2, on the pledge of certain articles of the va- 
No. 17 of lue of £6: whicli amount tbe defendant was ready to pay on the 
m^rt' w' ^ifi plS'intiffs returning the goods pledged, 
of 1865. At the trial of the case in the Court below, tbe plaintiff on 

cl. 66-]' examination stated that she lent tbe defendant £5 on her pledging 
two gold bangles and one gold chain ; tbat she had no writing or 
other instrument in support of her claim; that no oiEcer of the 
Police witnessed the transaction; and that she did not shew the ar- 
ticles pawned to any officer of the police. Hereupon the defen- 
dant pleaded the 25th. clause of the Ordinance No. 17 of 1844 in 
bar of the plaintiff's claim. 

The learned Commissioner held as follows: — 

" The plaintiff, not having ( when she lent the money ) 
received the gold bangles and gold chain by shewing them to the 
principal officer of her division (as she was hound to do), is by the 
25th clause of the Ordinance No. 17 of 1844 declared guilty of 
an offence, and is therefore, in my opinion, precluded from coming 
into a Court of Justice and seeking its aid to enforce the perform- 
ance of a contract which originated on her part in a transgression 
of the law. The benefit of the public, and not the advantage of 
the defendant, is what the Court must look to. 

" 'The object of all laws is to repress vice and promote the 
' welfare of the state and of society, and an individual shall not 
' be assisted by the law in enforcing a demand originating in a 
' breach or violation on his part of its principles and enactments.' 
Chitty on Contr. p. 657, 3rd ed. 

" This is a contract prohibited by statute, which the Court 
cannot uphold. The 25th clause was enacted clearly for the pre- 
vention of frauds, perjuries, and all other attendant evils, and it is 
for the public good that its intentions should not be allowed to be 
thwarted. * 

'" A contract is void if prohibited by a statute though the 
' statute only inflicts a penalty, because such a penalty implies a 
'prohibition.' In Bartlet v. Fiwo?", Holt, C. J, observed, 'Every 
' contract made for or about any matter or thing which is prohi- 
'bited and made unlawful by any statute, is a void cohtract, 
' though the statute itself does not mention that it shall be so, but 



19 

' only inflicts a penalty on the defaulter; because a penalty implies 
' a prohibition, though there are no. prohibitory words in the sta- 
' tute.' Chitty on Contr. p. 695, 3rd ed. 

" Under these ciroumstancea, the Court is of opinion that the 
plaintiff ia precluded from recovering the amount claimed. Nor 
can it make any order in favor of the defendant who also states 
that no officer of Police was present at the transaction, and that no 
deed or other instrument was executed in regard thereto. 

" Plaintiff is therefore hereby non-suited; each party bearing 
her own costs." 

On appeal by the plaintiff, the Supreme Court held as follows: — 

The decree of the Court below is affirmed forthe reasons stated 
by the Commissioner, which appears to the Supreme Court con- 
clusive ; and further because it appears that it was the intention of 
the Legislature to avoid such contracts altogether, and not in part; 
and that to lend any other construction to the clause in question 
would enable the pawnee to commit a fraud on the pawnor by retain- 
ing the property pledged and recovering the money advanced there- 
on, although the pawnee is at least as much in fault as the pawnor. 



1860. 
March. 7. 



7th March. 
Present : — ^Morgan, J. and Lawson, J. 



' >■ Fowler v. Baba Appoo. 
setting aside the decree of the Court below, 



C. E. Newera Ellia, 
No. 2,576. 

The Court, in 
held as follows : — 

The defendant would be liable to pay any damages which 
were the natural and probable consequence of his allowing his bidl 
to stray on another's land, but not damages, which are the remote 
or accidental consequences of such act. Injury done to the trees 
and in plaintiff's, estate would be a case illustrative of the former. 
But the consequence now complained of (" the animal having 
" buUed an English cow of the plaintiff kept for the purpose of 
" going to Mr. Kellow's English bull, so that the cow brought 
" forth a calf worth one pound sterling, whereas she would have 
" brought forth a calf worth six pounds,") is one by far too remote 
and accidental to form the subject of a claim. 



Trespass — 
cattle 
damage 
feasant — 
remote dama- 
ges. 



20 

mS' 7. ^']^o. S^U."' } ^''^^P'"'' «* «'• ^- ^2/loo Pulle et al 

Provisional This was an action on a promissory note and on a bond grant- 

judgment— gj \yy (;]j^g defendants to plaintiff, who prayed for provisional judg- 

allowable. ^^^^ thereon. 

To the note filed of record was attached an entry by the No- 
tary Public as follows: — 

I presented the annexed promissory note to S. Myloo Pulle and S. 
Sanmogam,, and demanded payment thereof, when they handed to me the 
annexed slip of paper, containing their answer, which is as follows: — 

" The aiTangements upon which this promissory note was given to 
Messrs. Thompson and Adams not having been carried out as agreed, we 
decline paying the same." 

Colombo, 30th July, 1859. (Signed) { " | Myloo pSe." 

On the motion for provisional jugdment being pressed, 2nd 
plaintiff was examined and admitted that no money passed from him- 
self or Mr. Thompson to the defendants when the note was given; 
that the note was given in pursuance of an agreement entered into 
between plaintiffs and some creditors of one Mr. Ponnambalam, an 
insolvent, whereby the plaintiffs were to quash the insolvency of 
the said Mr. Ponnambalam. The 2nd plaintiff said: " the giving 
of the promissory note was one of the reasons for acceding to the 
quashing of the bankruptcy and for signing the agreement. I sup- 
pose the consideration for defendants having signed the note was 
our signing the agreement. No other consideration was given by 
plaintiffs. It was our intention and that of the European creditors 
to oppose Mr. Ponnambalam obtaining his certificate. I am not 
aware that this intention was communicated to Mr. Ponnambalam 
or to his friends. It may have come out casually. I have no 
doubt he and his friends suspected our intention, from our having 
summoned the female members of his family to give evidence. I 
believe that it was to avoid publicity which would have taken place 
if the investigation had gone on, that his friends came forward and 
offered 10/s. in the £, and that the agreement was entered into &c." 

The District Judge held as follows: — 

" Two points have been urged by the counsel for defendants 
against the motion for provisional judgment. 

(1.) That the pro. note was given in pursuance of an agree- 
ment, a condition precedent whereof has not been fulfiled, viz: the 
annulling of Mr. Ponnambalam's insolvency, the same not having 
been legally effected, according to the provisions of the 140th and 
141st sections of the Ord. No. 7 of 1853. 

(2.) That the note was given for forbearing to oppose the 
insolvent's certificate, and reference was made to cl. 128 of the 
Ordinance. 



21 

" WLth regard to the 1st objection, it does not appear from the 1860. 
2nd plaintiff's examination that the proposed arrangement was not Marcli. 7. 
carried out; and further on reference to the insolvency case — 

No. 129, the Court finds that in accordance with a motion to that 
effect, the adjudication of insolvency was annulled. As to whe- 
ther that order was legally made, its efficacy, and moreover how 
far this Court can regard it as void, are questions which it would 
be premature to decide on a motion of this nature, the plaintiffs 
holding on the face of it a valid liquid instrument whereon the 
provision is claimed. 

" As respects the second objection, I also think that it is not 
one, for the reason last stated, that should be allowed to defeat the 
present application. The plaintiff does not acknowledge that the 
note was given in consideration of forbearance in opposing Mr. Pon- 
nambalam's certificate. And besides it may admit of considerable 
questibn if the 128th clause can be held to apply to a composition 
agreed to by the assignees and nearly all the creditors, with the 
cognizance of the ourt." 

The District Judge accordingly condemned the defendants to 
deposit in Court the amount claimed. 

On appeal, Lorenz for appellants cited Voet xlii. i. § 10 and 
15, and Jones v. Barhley, 2 Dougl. 864. Rust for respondents. 
The Supreme Court held as follows: — 

It appears from the plaintiff's own admission that no money 
passed at the time the note was given by the defendants, and that 
the same was given in pursuance of a certain arrangement to 
supersede and annul the bankruptcy of Mr. Ponnambalam. 
It appears further that such arrangement was not fully carried 
out ; the order made by the District Court being on the face of it 
contrary to the provisions of the Insolvent Ordinance. Are the 
plaintiffs to blame for this ? Does the non-supercession of the 
adjudication furnish sufficient ground to the defendants to avoid 
their note ? Whose business was it to see the arrangement carried 
out ? These are some of the questions which the admissions of the 
plaintiffs, when examined in Court, and the records referred to, 
raise for consideration, and they are obviously questions too 
important to be decided in a summary application made for 
provisional payment. Where an instrument which forms the basis 
of an application, like the present, is one which, according to plain- 
tiffs own shewing, is not so complete in itself as to raise a strong 
presumption in favor of plaintiff's claim (as in the case of bonds, 
notes, bills for money lent on goods sold, &c.), but is connected 
with others, and calling for such further enquiry as the instrument 
now before the Court does, namptissement should not be granted 
upon it. 



22 



i860. 
April. 11. 



Possessory 

action — its 

nature — 

Practice. 



11th April. 
Present: — Morgan, J. and Lawson, J. 



E. Balapiti Modere, 
No. 9,163. 



Umma Haminey v. Edery Baademeya. 



Per Curiam: — Set aside and the case remanded for the plaintiff 
to amend his plaint by pleading title to the property, when the Court 
will proceed to try and determine the same. Costs divided. 

The suit, as originally brought, was a proprietory one; but in 
amending the plaint, the clerk entirely altered the nature of the 
claim and made it only a possessory one. The possessory action 
of the Roman Dutch Law lies only where a party who has had 
possession for more than a year and a day is dispossessed by force; 
it is a summary remedy, and judgment given in it in no way de- 
termines the title to the land, but leaves that an open question. 
It is clear from the original plaint and the evidence that this is not 
the form of action which the plaintiff intended to bring, or the 
nature of the judgment which he sought to recover; and it will 
save the parties the expense and delay which ulterior proceedings 
may give rise to, were the plaint amended at once, as is now di- 
rected. 

Where the plaint filed by parties are in any way defective or 
unintelligible, it will be better that the Commissioner should 
examine such parties under the 13th section ofthe Eules attached 
to Ordinance No. 9 of 1859, and thus clear up and ascertain the 
issues to be tried, than that the clerk should be directed to enter 
an amended plaint. 



Intervention 
— Practice. 



12th April. 
Present: — MoEaAN, J. and Lawson, J. 

No 30819 f ^'^^'^^^^^^^^9^^ Appoohamy v. Punchy Appoohamy. 

Upon a motion to intervene, the District Judge allowed the 
intervention though it was adverse to both parties, on the ground 
that he had no power to reject it in view of cl. 32, sec. 1 (civil 
jurisdictiction) of the R. and O. 

On appeal by the plaintiff, the Supreme Court set aside the 
order and remanded the case to the District Court for the interve- 
nient to file his petition of intervention, shewing the interest in the 
Bubjeot matter of the suit. It held, — 

The Roman Dutch Law requires a party seeking to intervene 



23 

to file his articles of intervention, shewing summarily his interest 1860. 
to justify such intervention. GailFs Obs. lib. 1. Obs. 69 et seq. -^pril- 20. 
The practice in Colombo accordine;ly is, for the intervenient 
to commence with his petition of intervention, which sets 
out his interest, and ends with a prayer asking for leave to in- 
tervene, and that his petition may be accepted and parties noticed 
thereon. 

Here there is no petition or even a motion shewing the interest 
of the applicant and the Supreme Court is not in a position to as- 
certain whether he seeks to intervene in support of either of the 
litigant parties, or adverse to both, and if the latter, whether the 
case is one admissible under the Roman Dutch Law, — and the rules 
of Court must be considered and observed in reference to that law 
of intervention. When the intervenient in this case files his peti- 
tion and the District Court gives or refuses him leave to intervene, 
either party may appeal against the order, when the Supreme 
Court will be in a position, which it is not now, of giving its views 
thereon. 



20th April. 
Present: — Moegan, J. and Lawson, J. 
N '«?9 a.n9 1 Hammaddoo v. Sultan Saiho. 

This was an appeal against an order of the District Judge _ Award- 
discharging a rule nisi on the defendant to shew cause why an irregiilarity of 
award given in his favour should not be set aside on the ground of ^"^aut of 
certain irregularities. reasonable 

The following judgment of the Supreme Court sets out the ti^g°of°arb^' 
facts of the case: — trator. 

Although an award " when duly made" should be held final 
as respects the District Court (Mai-shall p. 37), yet it is competent 
for that Court to enquire and ascertain whether it has been duly 
made or not. It is open to parties to move to set aside an award 
for irregularity of jsroceeding, or other siifiicient cause ; and such 
motions hav« ere this been made in the District Court and sanc- 
tioned by the Supreme Court. 

Several grounds of irregularity have been urged against the 
present award; but the one which has had weight with the Supreme 
Court, is the want of reasonable notice to the plaintifE of the sitting 
of the arbitrator on the 31st December. 

It appears that notice was served on the plaintiff on the 29th 
December at Matale, to appear with his witnesses before the arbi- 



24 

1860. trator at Kandy on the 31st of that month; that the plaintiff wrote 
April. 27. to the arbitrator to explain that he could not attend on that day, 
not being able to get his witnesses up, and being himself obliged to 
be present at Matale then, as some property of his was advertized 
to be sold under execution; that on that day the defendant and his 
witnesses were present, and the plaintiff and his witnesses absent; 
that the defendant's counsel objecting to a postponement, the arbi- 
trator proceeded to hear the defendant's witnesses ; and that after 
doing so, he, on the 6th January, made his award in favor of the 
defendant. 

It appears to the Supreme Court that " though the precise 
time at which the arbitrator should summon the parties is discre- 
tionary, yet that time should be reasonable," ( 1 Stephen p. 191; 
Featkerstone v. Cooper^ 9 Ves. 67.); that notice on the 29th served 
on a person at Matale to appear with his witnesses at Kandy on 
the 31st, was not reasonable; and that therefore the arbitrator 
should not have proceeded, on the last named day, to hear the case 
ex parte. Under these circumstances, the award founded upon the 
ex parte hearing cannot be upheld. 



C. E. Jaffna, 1 
No. 25,491 i 



Valliamme v. Valen. 



JiirTsdiction— "^^^ Supreme Court set aside the judgment of the Court 

mony. below and absolved the defendant from the instance in these 

terms: — 

The Supreme Court considers that the Court of Bequests has 
no jurisdiction in cases of alimony. A court which can only 
award ten pounds in the whole, cannot decree A to pay to B ten 
shillings and six pence every month for life. The plaintiff should 
sue her husband in the District Court for separation on the ground 
of malicious desertion : that Court will be in a position to give her 
alimony, pendente lite, and separation from bed, board, cohabita- 
tion and goods. 



S7th, April 
Present: — Morgan, J. and Lawson, J. 
• P. C. Matara, J „., _ 

No. 27,115 / ^'^"^ '■• ^"""^y- 

•gambling— Per Curiam:— ASam&A as respects the first accused, but set 

1841 1 'iq° ^^^^^ ^^ respects the rest, who are acquitted. 

''use" ^* ^^ '^^^^ ^°^ ^^^ evidence that the first accused is the 

person, "who keeps the place, and that he insists upon get- 



25 

ting a share from the winner as soon as one wins, and that he has I860, 
an interest in the garden. The others only come and gamble ■*• ^^y- 
there." — 

Such being the case, it appears to the Supreme Court that 
the first accused is the only one who comes under the description 
of "person who keep, hold occupy or use any house or other 
place, open or enclosed, for the purpose of common or promiscuous 
gambling." The case of keepers of taverns, shops, places for the retail 
of spirits or other liquors, houses and other places, open or enclosed, is 
provided for in the 16th, 17th and 19th clauses as contradistinguish- 
ed from the case of persons who game, play or bet in the above- 
mentioned places, which is provided for in the 4th clause, 4th 
section. The single word " use " may at first seem to cover the 
case of any person who resorts to the place for gambling ; but it 
is clear from the explanation afforded in the 20th clause, that the 
word refers, not to a person who resorts to a place to gamble, but 
to the master or manager of the place, as distinct from the owner, 
keeper or occupier thereof. 



4th May. 
Present : — Morgan, J. and Lawson, J. 

N 10 ^^fi ' 1 Sedowa v. Casedew et al. 

In this case the Supreme Court held as follows: — 

In all cases where a party in default is allowed fresh time to Practice — 
plead, if it is intended that in default of such pleading being filed Judgment by 
within the time allowed by the Court, judgment should be entered "etault, 
for the opposite party without further notice to the party in default, 
such condition should be expressly set out in the order allowing 
time to plead, in order that due notice may be given of the conse- 
quence of any further neglect. 



7th May. 
Present; — Morgan, J. and Lawson J. 

S' ^o7^niT^°' I- Wilson V. The Ceylon Bailway Company. 

This action was brought by the Master of the barque " "Wood Action for 



26 

1860. bine" against the Ceylon Railway Company for the recovery of £ 50, 
May, 7. mainly for demurrage or detention of his vessel during the un- 
loading of the goods. Under the bill of lading, the defendants, as 
imDUednro^ consignees, had undertaken to clear the goods at the ship's hold " at 
miee— Evi- their own risk and expense, the Captain to give the use of the 
denoe — derrick and cordage on board, and the use of the crew in assisting 
unstamped to discharge it, as per agreement, 11th April, 1859." 
^"*ment^^*' ^^® defendants pleaded that they never agreed to discharge the 

vessel withiil any specified time, and if there was any detention, it 
was not attributable to any negligence on the part of the defen- 
dants, but to the plaintiff's own carelessness in not rendering the 
assistance he had stipulated to give to the defendants. 

The District Judge found on the merits for plaintiff, and held 
he was entitled to four days demurrage @ £ 5 per day, but the 
District Judge also held that plaintiff, as master, could not sue for 
demurrage on an implied promise, the written agreement of the 
11th April 1859, referred to in the bill of lading, not having been 
produced. Plaintiff was accordingly nonsuited. 

On appeal, Bust for appellant, Lorenz for respondent. 

The Court held as follows:— 

This is an action brought by the master of a ship against the 
consignees of certain machinery for breach of a contract to discharge 
the said machinery within reasonable time after the arrival of the 
ship in Colombo. 

The master signed bills of lading in the usual form but 
containing a marginal note in the following terms — " The machi- 
" nery to be taken out of the ship at consignees' risk and expense; 
" the Captain to give the use of the derrick and cordage on board 
" and the use of his crew in assisting to discharge it, as per 
"agreement 11th April 1859." The goods were received on 
board by the agent of defendants who proceeded to discharge 
them, and it is argued for the plaintiff that there is an implied con- 
tract on the part of the defendants to unload wdth due diligence 
arising from their acceptance of the goods under the terms of the 
bill of lading — ^but it appears from the abpve extract that there 
was a written agreement which has not been produced nor its non- 
j.roduction accounted for. 

There being therefore a written agreement between the parties, 
and in the absence of the written agreement, the Supreme Court 
has no evidence of any contract whatever. It has been stated by 
the counsel for the plaintiff that the agreement was not produced 
because it was unstamped, but this will not excuse the non-produc- 
tion. See rwraer i>. Power 7 B & C 625, Buxton v. Cornish 12 
M & W 426. 

The written agreement may for anything that appears to the 



27 



contrary contain explicit directions as to the time to be allowed for 
unloading and the amount to be paid for demurrage. 

Upon this ground the judgment of the Court below is affirmed, 
without entering into the consideration of the other questions raised 
at the trial. 



1860. 

May, 18. 



18th May. 
Present : — Morgan, J. and Lawson, J. 

N 14.015 I Keri Menica, V. Palleme Appoohamy. 

Per Curiam: — Affirmed. The sum which the defendant was Mesne profits 
decreed to pay in this case was two pounds, being the mesne profits ^?-^ o°^*n 
received by him, and costs, which amount to two pounds, six ^^^1 aeainet 

shillings and three pence. It appears to the Supreme Court that person Ord. 

these items, fall within the description of debt contracted under No. 7 of 1853, 
the 164th. clause of the Ordinance No. 7 of 1853, which disallows cI.164. 
arrests against the person for sums under ten pounds. The mesne 
profits awarded by the Court are so much money had and received 
by the defendant from the produce of land which was found to 
belong to the plaintiff, and as to costs, it is clear from the provision 
at the end of the clause that the ten pounds was to be recovered 
exclusive of interest " and of costs," and that the Legislature meant 
to include costs under the general description of " debt contracted." 



D. C. Kandy, J 
No. 26,799. / 



Punchi Menika v. Kiri Banda. 



The defendant in this case was fined, under cl. 29, sec. 1 Civ. 
Juris. R. & O., for deceiving the Court. 

On appeal, the Supreme Court held as follows: — 
Although the 19th clause of section 2 of the Rules and Orders, 
Criminal Jurisdiction, is repealed, yet it is essentia] in view of the 
principles of justice, that a man should be heard before he is con- 
demned. When the Judge found that the defendant had made a 
false statement, he ought to have distinctly charged him with it, 
pointing out to him in what the falsity consisted. This mode of 
proceeding, necessary in every case, was particularly necessary in 
the present instance, where the statement for which the defendant 
was punished was made five years before he was punished for it, 
and before another Judge. The defendant was not, however, 
charged with having made a false statement, and was not given 



Deceiving the 
Court — con- 
tempt —pro- 
cedure. 



28 

1860, an opportunity of explaining it or defending himself. It appears 

May, 18. from tte record that the Judge, immediately after he decreed the 

lands to plaintiff, proceeded to impose the fine on defendant. With 

every inclination to uphold the authority of the District Court, the 

Supreme Court cannot sanction the present proceedings. 



N 9ft ftft?' I Ahamedo Bawa v. Forbei. 



Quartering of pgj. Curiam: — Set aside and defendant (the Government 

Force— Sta- -^S^nt of Galle) decreed to pay to plaintiff the sum of 4« lO^d. 

tutee charging with costs. 

the^raVeot^ The Proclamation of 7th August, 1848, in establishing the 

"Voluntary l™its of the Police Force for the town of Galle, sets out that they 
payment to shall include "aU. that space of ground which lies to the south of, 

public officer. " and adjoins to, the cross road leading from the main road to Co- 
" lombo over the Naaoonda Bridge along the side of the canal 
" through the village of Kandawatte across the Wakwalla Road 
" through Poconswatte and Gallindewatte, and from thence to its, 
" junction with the Matara Road." The house of the plaintiff, 
though it adjoins the cross road above referred to, lies to the north 
thereof; it does not therefore come within the limits which only 
take in all the property to the south of the road. It has been 
contended that as the house adjoins the road, and is equally pro- 
tected by the Police, it falls within the terms of the Proclamation. ■ 
It is clear, however, that the words cover only the houses on the 
south of the road, and " it is a well settled rule of law that every 
" charge upon the subject must be imposed by clear and unambi- 
" guous language," and even where there is an ambiguity found, 
the construction must be in favor of the public ; because where the 
public are to be charged with a burden, the intention of the legis- 
lature to impose that burden must be explicitly and distinctly 
shown. Dwarris on Statutes, p. 749. 

The second point urged by the Crown was that the money 
having been voluntarily paid could not be recovered back. Money 
voluntarily paid by a party who is under no mistake cannot ordi- 
narily be recovered back; but there is a distinction between the 
case of money paid upon a claim made by a public officer who has 
the power of summarily enforcing his claim without reference to 
the ordinary legal remedies, and money paid under a claim by a 
private individual who has no power of enforcing it except by 
adopting those remedies. In the former case, it is obviously con- 
tra osquum et bonum, that the public officer should retain what he 
has thus acquired, by taking au undue advantage of his situation; 



29 

in the latter case, the claimant may have been impressed with a fair 1860. 
belief of his own right, and, (if the party making the payment was May. 30. 
not deceived,) then his retainer of the money, when paid, is no 
more contra cequum than his claim of it on the first instance. See 
notes to Smith's Leading Cases, Marriott v. Hampton, vol. 2 p. 
339. (Ed. 1856.) 



' v Baban v. Abeyewardene. 



D. C. Galle, 
No. 18, 838 

Per Curiam : — A Contract by which a renter sells to a person Contract to 
the riffht to retail arrack in any tavern is not one which comes within ^^*^'l arrack 
theOrdinanceNo. 7 of 1840 cl. 2. Such a contract conveys no m- land— Ord 
terest in land. The fact that the retailer is bound by the Arrack Or- No. 7 of 1840. 
dinance to retail spirits within certain territorial limits only, makes cl. 2. 
no difference : his interest in the locality in which the tavern is held 
must be, and is in fact, derived from a contract distinct from that 
which he enters into with the renter. It is not necessary, nor is 
it always the case, that the renter is the owner of the premises . 



SOth May. 
Present: — Lawson, J. and Morgan, J. 

AT iq 7'iS ' ( Senewiratne v. Jayewardane. 

On the 8th February, defendant moved for and obtained, on Postpone- 
payment of costs, a postponement of the trial of this case which ment of case 
had been fixed for the 19th of the same month. The costs of the —expenses of 
postponement, as taxed by the Secretary, included an item of £ 37, 
being batta and expenses of 15 witnesses. This item was objected 
to on behalf of defendant, on the ground that plaintiff and his 
proctor had timely notice of the postponement, and that several 
of plaintiff's witnesses also had been noticed not to attend court on 
the '21st February. 

The District Judge allowed the taxation, " as the witnesses 
refused to attend in pursuance of the subpoenas." 

Defendant appealed. Rust and Lorenz for appellant, Dias 
for respondent. 

The Supreme Court set aside the order of the Court below and 
disallowed the item objected to, so far as it included the charges of 
the witnesses who received notice of the postponement of the trial; 
and the Court held: — 



30 



1860. 
May. 30. 



The appellant would be bound to pay all charges fairly and 
honestly incurred by the plaintifE in consequence of the postpone- 
ment. But the expenses of witnesses, whose attendance could have 
been prevented do not fall under this class. 

It was contended in appeal that the motion for postponement 
should not have been made without notice to the plaintiff, and that 
the notices of the postponement should have been sent through the 
Court. Such a course would certainly have been better, judging 
from the result. But the motion for the postponement having been 
granted, and the Proctor for plaintiff having received due notice 
thereof, he was bound to apprise his client of such postponement, 
and the Court must presume that he did his duty. No steps hav- 
ing been taken to set that order aside, the plaintiff must have 
known that the trial would not come on, and was bound therefore 
to see that all unnecessary expenses were avoided. The witnesses 
had written notices served upon them at the instance of the defen- 
dant, that the trial would not come on on the 21st. It is clear 
from Mr. Navaratne's letter that the plaintiff wished him to come 
to Colombo in spite of the notice served upon Mr. Navaratne 
that the case was postponded. It does not appear whether he in- 
structed his other witnesses also to do so, but seeing that notices of 
the postponement were served upon them on the 11th, at or near 
Chilaw, of which place the plaintiff is the Modliar, the Supreme 
Court believes that he might with ease have prevented his wit- 
nesses from attending, and that he was bound to do so. The 
expenses therefore of their attendance was unnecessarily and 
improperly incurred, and to allow such expenses would be to sanc- 
tion a line of proceeding in the District Court, which this Court is 
most anxious to discountenance and put an end to. 

It will be open to the witnesses, all excepting Mr. Crespen, to 
apply to have the bills taxed as against the plaintiff. The Sup- 
reme Court excepts Mr. Crespyn, the Secretary of the Chilaw 
Court, who from his position must have known, when he received 
Mr. Maartensz's notice that the case was not coming on, and who 
might easily have ascertained the fact had he doubted it by ^vriting 
to the Secretary at Colombo. If under these circumstances he 
chose to leave his duties and come to Colombo, he must personally 
be3,r the expenses of his visit. 



D. C, 



Colombo, 
No. 26952. 



> Sdbapadia Pulle v. Pitche Neyna. 



Appeal — 
interest of 
appellant — 

• Writ of 



This was an action by the consignee of certain goods against 
the owner of two vessels, called the Royal Victoria and the Karti 
Keyan, and their respective masters. 



31 

The plaintiff averred that the first defendant, as lyndal, and 1860. 
the 2nd defendant, as owner, of the Royal Victoria, received on May. 30. 
board of her a certain quantity of rice, which they undertook safely "7" 

and securely to convey from the port of Tranquebar and to deliver _i,Tactice 

the same to the plaintiff at Colombo ; that they agreed that they r. & o., 
would not delay the said vessel or tranship the said goods from the cl 15 sec i. 
said brig, the Royal Victoria, to any other vessel; that in breach of 
this agreement, the 1st and 2nd defendants, without proceeding 
direct to the port of Colombo, sailed to other ports and delayed the 
goods on board of the said vessel, and, afterwards, unknown to the 
plaintiff, unloaded the said goods from the said brig and shipped 
the same on board of the vessel called the Karte Keyan, also the 
property of the second defendant, of which the 3rd defendant was 
the tyndal ; that the said brig Karti Keyan arrived at Colombo, 
but the 3rd defendant, though knowing the goods to belong to 
plaintiff and though requested by plaintiff to deliver the said goods, 
refused to do so, to plaintiff's damage of £68. 

Plaintiff prayed for the value of the rice shipped and the 
damage sustained. 

Simultaneously with the filing of the libel, plaintiff moved 
for and obtained a sequestration of the vessel Karti Keyan (then 
riding at anchor at the harbour of Colombo) and of the rice referred 
to in the libel. 

The 3rd defendant duly filed answer but the 1st and 2nd 
defendant did not, being reported not to be found in the District. 

Thereupon the plaintiff moved for a writ of sequestration 
against the property of the 1st and 2nd defendants, in terms of 
cl. 15 of E. & O. sec. 1. The District Judge on the 3rd of April 
allowed the sequestration. 

The 3rd defendant appealed against this order, Rvst appeared 
for him, and Dias for plaintiff and respondents. 

The Supreme Court held as follows: — 

A preliminary objection was made by the plaintiff to the 
right of the 8rd defendant to appeal against an order affecting the 
1st and 2nd defendants only. But the Supreme Court considers 
that the defendant being a party to the suit, and being further as 
tyndal of the vessel bound to maintain the interests of the owner 
thereof, it is open to him to appeal and to appear in this 
Court in support of his appeal. 

His counsel has urged two objections to the order of the 
District Court: 1st that a second sequestration should not have 
been allowed, and 2nd that the District Court has no jurisdiction 
as respects the first amd second defendants. 

The plaintiff applied for and obtained a writ of sequestra- 
tion, simultaneously with the filing of his libel, and in pursuance 
thereof, he seized the rice, which he claimed as his, and the vessel 



S2 

1860. to cover damages, to the amomit of ninety pounds. This, in the 
June. 1. opinion of the Supreme Court, is all the security to which the 
plaintifE is entitled in this action. Having obtained such security, 
he applied for another sequestration under the 15th clause of the 
Rules and Orders sec. 1, against the property of the first and 
second defendants, they being reported not to be found within the 
District, which the Couit allowed. This is the sequestration now 
complained against. It appears to the Supreme Court that a writ 
of sequestration having been once allowed against all the 
defendants, and the plaintiff having obtained thereunder all the 
security he was entitled to in this case, a second writ should not 
have issued. The rules provide for the ordinary case where a 
party commences by summons and enables him to arrest the 
property of a defendant, who is out of the jurisdiction of the 
Court. But the ordinary proceeding having been departed from, 
and a sequestration issued in the first instance, the party has all 
the protection that he needs, and cannot be allowed to harass his 
opponent by a double sequestration. To enable the plaintiff to 
proceed against the second and third defendants (there being of 
course no other objection to his doing so,) the first sequestration 
will answer all the purposes of the Rules. 

This view of the case renders it unnecessary that this Court 
should consider the second objection urged by the learned counsel 
as to the want of jurisdiction. 



1st June- 
Present '. — Sterling, A. C. J., and Morgan, J. 

D. C. Galle \ In the matter of Lebbe Marcar, a minor. 

No. 1295 j {Lebbe Marcar v. Abdul Cader) 

ward?^" ^P** Per Curiam, : Set aside and the case remanded to the Court 

belonging to ^^^"'^ *o call upon the guardian to deposit in court the sum of 
the ward, money belonging to the minor, or to give sufficient security there- 
how to be for and also to deposit the transfer of the landed property belong- 
dealt with, ijjg to such minor. 

The Supreme Court observes with regret the loose nature of 
the proceedings adopted in this case, and the want of due attention 
to the interests of the minors, which interests it is the first duty of 
the Court, as the proper guardian of all minors, to protect and up- 
hold. 

The guardian should not have been allowed to receive so 
large a sum of money, without giving security of immoveable 
property. The correct course is doubtless to insist upon all 



3S 

monies being paid to the Loan Board, whicli has succeeded to the 1860. 
functions of the Weiskamer ; hut where the sum of money is small, June. 1. 
and the interest derivable from the Loan Board insufficient for the ' 

maintenance of the minor, the Courts may, in extreme cases, allow 
money to remain with the guardian, always taking however from 
that guardian undoubted security, which in this country should be 
nothing less than the security of immoveable property. Personal 
security seems only to have been taken in the present instance, and 
the securities have not even gone through the ordinary form of 
swearing to their worth. The certificates of the Head Moorman 
may be good as auxiliary evidence to satisfy the Judge, but is in- 
sufficient in itself without the other cautions which the law 
requires. 

So many instances have come to the notice of the Supreme 
Court of the manner in which the interests of minors are sacrificed 
in this country, that it gladly takes advantage of the opportunity 
afforded by this case, to call the earnest attention of the District 
Court to the necessity of seeing that, in all cases where guardians 
have the money of minors, such money should be brought into 
Court to be deposited into the Loan Board, or real security taken 
therefor as already pointed out. The direction given in the con- 
cluding paragraph of the 4th clause of section 4 of the Rules and 
Orders, if complied with, will enable the Court to see in what cases 
it should interfere in requiring proper accounts and securities. 



ivr 977fin I Sangerapulle v. Ramen. 

The Supreme Court held as follows : — 

This case is remanded for further evidence, as it does not 
appear whether the act was found to be malicious, nor very clearly 
whether the embankment was on defendant's own land. The 
annexed cases will guide the Magistrate as to the law ruling the 
cases, and afford directions in considering whether the case is not 
of a civil nature. 

2 EoUe's Abridgement, Trespass, (I) par. 1. 

But semble that a man who has land next adjoining my land 
cannot dig his land so near mine, that my land shall go into his 
pit ; and therefore if the action had been brought for that, it 
would lie. 

Lord Tenterden's judgment in Wyatt v. Harrison, 3 B. 
and Ad. 876,— 

It may be true that if my land adjoins that of another, 
and I have not by building increased the weight of my soil, 
and my neighbour digs in hia land so as to occasion mine 



Trespaai 



34 

1860. to fall in, he may be liable to an action. But if I bave 
June 8. that be is to be deprived of the right of digging his own 
laid an additional weight upon my land, it does oot follow 
ground, because mine wiU become incapable of supporting the 
artificial weight which I have laid upon it. And this is consistent 
■snth 2 Rolle's Abridgement, Trespass, (I) par. 1. 



Fishery — 

maadel — 

cuatom. 



5th June. 



Present: — Steeling, A. C. J. and Morgan, J. 



C. R. Galle 
No. 16645 



;} 



Gnruway v. Bastian 



The Supreme Court set aside the decree of the Court below 
and entered up judgment for the plaintiff for the sum of £ 3 with 
costs, in these terms : — 

It is clear from the evidence that a person going out in a 
small canoe to fish is entitled to continue that fishiag until the 
maadel is being brought ashore. It is necessary for him to move 
off only to permit the maadel to proceed to shore. Such a custom 
is reasonable inasmuch as it secures to both people fishing in canoes 
and those engaged fishing with maadels, the benefit of their labours, 
and does not permit the one to interfere with the other more than 
is absolutely and indispensably necessary. 

According to the evidence, the plaintiff had the px-e-occupancy, 
and the defendant coming with his maadel ordered him away from 
the place, and by a demonstration of force procured his (the 
plaintiffs') compliance with that order. This defendant did, not 
when the viaadel was being brought ashore, but immediately after 
he first threw in the maadel. The plaintiff lost therefore the 
benefit of fishing on that day to which by pre-occupancy, and by 
the operation of the custom already referred to, he was clearly 
entitled. 



Payment 

under 
protest — 
peculiar 
relation. 



r resent: 

C. R. Kalutara 
No. 12546. 



itara 1 
6. I 



8th June. 
-Steeling, A. C. J. and Morgan, J. 
Fernando v. Manzoni. 



The Court, in afiirming the judgment appealed against, 
held as follows : — 

It was contended in appeal that the party paying the money, 
having been under no mistake in fact or law, he must be held to 



35 

have voluntarily paid the same and cannot be allowed to recover it 1860 

back. . But the Supreme Court cannot lose sight of the peculiar June, 11. 

relation which existed between the parties, which enabled the one, 

a priest, to take advantage of the confidence which that relation 

inspired, and, by undue influence, to obtain money from the other, 

a member of his congregation. A Court of Equity is ever ready to 

afford relief under those circumstances. The money paid by the 

plaintiff was not money which could be legally demanded from him 

or his brother-in-law ; but in a moment of trial and distress, he 

was worked upon by a threat of having his sister buried without 

the cross and banner, and the perfonnance of burial service, (he 

having been taught to regard a burial without them as a disgrace) 

and thus made to pay the money. He did so under protest and 

must be allowed to recover it back. 



11th June. 
Present: — Steeling, A. C. J., and Morgan. J. 

Plaintiffs' claim was set aside in these terms by the Supreme Action for 

Court : tortious legal 

proceedings , 

The plaintiffs, as executors of Bamaya, complain that the — want of 
defendants claimed a certain land, which was seized in execution malioe— 
to satisfy a judgment obtained by certain parties against the Estate ^anrnum 
of Bamaya, and brought an action to substantiate this claim, but jZr^i^Qaiis, 
which action was dismissed ; that owing to such claim and action, 
and the delay which they gave rise to in satisfying the debt due 
by the estate, the plaintiffs, as executors aforesaid, sustained 
damages to the amount of £600, which they seek to recover from 
the defendants. The Court gave plaintiffs judgment for £300-4-6, 
being the difference between additional interest which they had to 
pay the holders of the vn-it against the estate, and the rents and 
profits received from the gardens. Against which judgment the 
defendants appeal. 

It appears to the Supreme Court that no malicious or corrupt 
motive in making claim or prosecuting the action being alleged or 
proved against the defendant, they are not liable in damages. The 
case is one falling within the principle of Davies v. Jenkins, 11 M. & 
W. 745, in which it was held that though the act complained against 
was productive of inconvenience, and even positive loss to the plain- 
tiff yet it is damnum absque injuria, for which no action would 
lie. The principle of the action is well stated by Mr. Broom in 



36 

1860. his Commentaries on the Common Law p. 80. " In tte second of 
June 11. " the three instances above put, that viz. of an action brought un- 
" successfully, but which nevertheless causes inconvenience and 
" anxiety of mind, nay even positive loss to a defendant, the reason 
" why redress and pecuniary compensation for the inconvenience 
" so caused cannot (at all events in the absence of any malicious 
" or corrupt motive) be enforced, would seem to be, that our 
" courts of justice are open to all suitors, who there seek to pro- 
" secute their claims in the manner prescribed by law ; and that 
" anything having a tendenc)*to stifle or prevent such inquiring, 
"ea; gr. the fear of being mulcted in heavy costs beyond that oom- 
" paratively reasonable amount ascertained by taxation, according 
" to the scale allowed by law, would be highly inexpedient. 

Inasmuch, however, as this objection was not taken in the 
pleading, or at the trial, alid the same might have beem taken at 
the outset by general demurrer, the costs are divided. 



D. C. Galle ) j ^ , w „ . i 
TV 17 fiOn I ""' "^ '***'"' ^^ ^^• 

CoBj;B of The Court held as follows : — 

Inteivenients. j^. appears to the Supreme Court that the judgment nonsuit- 

ing plaintiffs with costs, subjects the plaintiffs to pay the costs of 
the defendants, who have been brought into court by the plaintiffs, 
and does not include the costs of the Intervenients who come into 
Court of their own accord and are not entitled to costs, unless for 
some good reasons moving the court, when such costs are express- 
ly awarded to them. The orders of the 22nd November and 
2nd December 1859 are set aside and costs therein referred are 
hereby ordered to be paid back to the plaintiffs. Costs in appeal 
divided. 



15lli June. 

Present: — Ceeasy, C. J., and Sterling J. and Morgan, J. 

The hon'ble Sir Edward Shepherd Creasy Kt. produces in 
court a warrant under the Hand and Colonial Seal of His Excellen 
cy Sir Henry George Ward, appointing him Chief Justice of the 
Island of Ceylou, and takes the usual oaths of office and allegiance. 



37 

23rd June ]860. 

No 26656 1 ■^^'"'^^"■y ^^ ^ ""• Oriental Bank Corporation et al. 

This case will be found reported in i Lorenz pp. 31 — 90. 
The plaintiffs had obtained judgment in the District Court of 
Kandy on the 16th April 1855, which however was reversed in 
appeal by the Supreme Court on the 8th of March 1856. Against 
this judgment, dismissing the libel with costs, plaintiffs appealed to 
Her Majesty in Council. 

The following is the judgment of the Lords of the Judicial 
Committee of the Privy Council, delivered on the 23rd June. It 
sets out the facts of the case fully. 

Present. 

The Right Hon. Lord Kingsdown 
The Right Hon. the Lord Justice Knight Bruce 
The Right Hon. the Lord Justice Turner 
The Right Hon. Sir John Taylor Coleridge 
The Right Hon. Sir Lawrence Peel. 

This appeal arises out of a suit instituted by the appellants in In an action 
the District Court of Kandy, in the Island of Ceylon, against the to recover 
Oriental Bank Corporation, George Smyttan Duff, personally and possession of 
as executor of Alexander 5?'om;?i, deceased, James Ingleton, and ^.jjg jjig^j^^j. ^f 
David Baird Lindsay, for the purpose, according to the prayer of Kandy, in the 
the libel in the suit, of having it declared and decreed that an in- Island of 
strument of the 11th of July, 1848, and a warrant of attorney of jp^/:"?' '^^ 
that date, mentioned in the libel, were and are, so far as regards ^^^ ^whose" 
the rights of the plaintiffs (the appellants) and the estate of Martin rights. were 
Lindsay, deceased, wholly null and void, and insufficient to convey founded upon 
or pass any interest in the said estate, or to create any charge or iustninients 
incumbrance thereon; and of having it also declared and decreed ^wn^B-iitj, ^ 
that the rights of the plaintiffs (the appella,nts), and of the estate form; -Held, 
of Martin Lindsay, were not and are not in any way affected by (there being 
any proceeding in a suit against the defendant, David Baird "° Particular 
Lindsay, No. 8,997, mentioned in the libel ; and that by no pro- Djg+Iict-) that 
ceeding had in the suit in respect of the execution against the the principles 
effects of David Baird Lindsay, and the sale thereupon of the of English 
Rajawelle estate, lands and premises, could the estate, lands and ^^'^ were to 
premises be legally passed ; and that the same did not by any such p^]Jtg™f the 
proceeding become the lawful property of the Oriental Bank parties in the 
mentioned in the libel, or of any of the defendants ; and for the action. 
further purpose, according to the prayer of the libel, that the The Eoman- 
defendants might be ejected from the estate, lands and premises, Dutch law 
and that the plaintiffs (the appellants) might be restored to their prevails 



38 



1860. 
June 23. 

generally in 

the Island of 

Ceylon. 

According to 

the law in 

force in 

Ceylon, it is 

essential to 

the Talidity of 

a deed, 

affecting 

immovable 

property, that 

the deed 

should be 

executed in 

the Island. 

(See Moore's 

P. C. Rep. 

Vol. 13, 

p. 401.) 



original rigtts, and put and placed in the possession of the estate, 
lands and premises, on behalf of themselves and those minors and 
others whose interests they represented, of which possession they 
had, as alleged, been illegally and fraudulently deprived ; and 
that the defendants might be decreed to pay to the plaintiffs (the 
appellants), as and for mesne profits, the sum of £10,000 sterling, 
with costs of suit. 

Upon the hearing of this suit, the District Court of Randy on 
the 16th April, 1855, made the following decree : That the de- 
fendants be ejected from the premises in dispute; that the plaintiffs 
(the appellants), as devisees in trust of the estate of Martin Lind- 
say, be restored to and quieted in possession thereof ; that they 
recover from the defendants mesne profits to the amount of 
£6,457. 3s. \d. sterling, in the following proportions, that is to 
say, from the defendant, George Smyttan Dnff, from the 10th of 
February, 1849, to the 30th of April, 1850 ; and from the defen- 
dant, George Smyttan Duff, as executor of the estate of Alexander 
Brown, and from the defendant, James Ingleton, from the 1st of 
May, 1850, to the 21st of May, 1853, at the rate of £1,500 per 
annum ; and that the above defendants do pay the costs of the 
suit, except the costs of the Oriental Bank Corporation, as against 
whom the libel was dismissed with costs, and except the costs of 
the defendant, David Baii'd Lindsay, which were to be borne by 
himself. 

From this decree of the District Coiu-t of Kandy, the defen- 
dant, George Smyttan Duff, in his own right, and as executor of 
Alexander Brown, and the defendant, James Ingleton, appealed to 
the Supreme Coiirt of the Island of Ceylon; and that Court, by 
Its decree, dated the 8th of March, 1856, reversed the judgment 
of the District Court, and dismissed the libel with costs. 

The appeal before us is brought by the plaintifEs (the appel- 
lants) from this latter decree. 

Martin Lindsay, the testator, to whom the estate in question 
belonged, and who appears to have been domiciled in Scotland, by 
his Will dated the 21st of December, 1844, after directing payment 
of his debts and funeral and testamentary expenses, gave, devised, 
and bequeathed his undivided share of the Eajawelle estate in the 
Island of Ceylon, with the fixtures, implements and utensils thereto 
belonging, which he held jointly with the heirs of the late George 
Tumour, and all other messuages, lands, tenements, and here- 
ditaments, and other property, whether real or personal, or mixed, 
belonging to him in the Island of Ceylon, unto and to the use of 
his wife, the appellant, Elsy Lindsay; his son, the respondent, 
David Baird Lindsay; his brother the Eev. Henry Lindsay; his 
brother-in-law, James Uadden, and his son-in-law, the appellant, 
James Farquhar Hadden, their heirs, executors and administrators. 



39 

upon trust, to manage and cultivate the same as they should think - Ao 
most beneficial for the persons who should be entitled thereto ""^ 
under his Will ; with very full and extensive powers of manage- 
ment, and with a declaration of his most earnest desire that his 
trustees should continue to manage the same as long as might be 
practicable, without bringing the same to a sale ; and after declar- 
ing trusts of the nett proceeds to be derived from the estate and 
premises for the benefit of his wife and children, he provided that 
any one or more of his sons who might feel disposed to take the 
management of the estate and premises, and for that purpose to 
reside in Ceylon, should be at liberty to do so if his trustees should 
consider the same advantageous, but not otherwise ; and he declar- 
ed that the son or sons so for the time being acting in the manage- 
ment of the estate and premises should be considered as the agent- 
or agents, and be subject to the control and direction of his trust 
tees in the management thereof and othewise relating thereto. 
He then gave power to his trustees to sell the estate and premises, 
or any part thereof ; and gave, devised and bequeathed all his real 
and personal estates, property and effects not before disposed of, 
and not being real or heritable property in Scotland, to which he 
should be entitled at the time of his decease, unto and to the use 
of the same trustees, upon trust to convert the same into money, 
and- invest the proceeds thereof, and to stand possessed of the in- 
vested fund upon trusts for the benefit of his wife and children ; 
and he appointed his wife, and David Baird Lindsay, Henry 
Lindsay, James Hadden, and James Farquhar Hadden, to be his 
executors. 

In the month of April, 1846, after the date of his WiU, the 
Testator made some arrangements with the heirs of Tumour, under 
which he became solely entitled to the greater part of the Raja- 
welle estate, and he mortgaged the part of the estate to which he 
had thus become entitled, and which seems to have retained the 
name of the Rajawelle estate, to Henry Alexander Atcheson, the 
executor of George Twnoiir. 

In the month of January, 1847, the Testator died, leaving 
several children ; and at that time the sum of £4,000 was due 
upon Atcheson's mortgage, and the estate, it appears, was also in 
mortgage to other persons. 

In the month of April, 1847, the appellants and James 
Hadden (who afterwards died in the year 1848) proved the Tes- 
tator's Will in Scotland, and in the month of July, 1847, it was 
also proved in Ceylon by David Baird Lindsay. It is stated in 
one of the deeds to which we shall have occasion to refer, that the 
Will was thus proved by David Baird Lindsay under a power of 
attorney from the other executors and trustees ; but this fact does 
not appear to have been proved in the cause as against the respon- 



40 

1800. dents. Henry Lindsay did not prove the Will or accept any of the 
June 23. trusts created by it. 

— Soon after the death of the Testator, the £4,000 secured by 

Atcheson's mortgage was required to be paid ; and thereupon 
David Baird Lindsay, who was the eldest son of the Testator 
and resided in Ceylon, and had the management of the estate there, 
came over to this country for the purpose of making arrangements 
to provide for the payment of the mortgage, and for securing the 
means of keeping up the cultivation of the estate. These purposes 
were effected by an agreement which was come to about the end of 
the year 1847, by all the trustees of the Will, including David 
Baird Lindsay, with Mr. Canary, a merchant carrying on business 
in London under the firm of " Shaw (J- Gaffary" and which agree- 
ment was embodied in a deed made between the appellants and 
David Baird Lindsay, and James Hadden of the one part, and 
Caffary of the other part. By this deed, after reciting the Testa- 
tor's Will, and that the trusts of the Will had been accepted 
by the executors and executrix, except Henry Lindsay, and that 
the Will had been proved by David Baird Lindsay under a power 
of attorney from the acting executors and trustees, and that David 
Baird Lindsay had, with the concurrence of the trustees, taken up- 
on himself the management of the Rajawelle estate, it was agreed 
that Caffary should forthwith pay £2,000, to the trustees, and 
shoiild forthwith give David Baird Lindsay a letter of credit 
authorizing him to draw bills at six months' sight to the extent of 
£4,000, to be applied towards paying the mortgage-debt and 
interest, that the trustees should procure the securities for the same to 
be transferred to Caffary, and should, on Caffary' s request, execute 
to him a legal mortgage for the full amount which shoidd have 
been advanced by him, and for all further advances and supplies 
which should have been made and furnished by him, and should 
do all necessary acts for rendering the mortgage effectual according 
to the laws of Ceylon, and for constituting it the first charge upon 
the estate, and for enabling Caffary to sell the "estate in case the 
interest should be in arrear for three months, or the principal 
should not be paid within six months after payment should have 
been required. That the produce of the estate should be consign- 
ed to Caffary, he accepting David Baird Lindsay's bills against 
the produce, so as to provide the funds for cultivating the estate. 
That out of the moneys to arise from the sale of the produce, 
Caffary, should reimburse himself the bills drawn against the 
produce and keep down the interest on the mortgage, and should 
apply the surplus, if any, in reduction of the principal, if he 
should think proper ; and if not, then as the trustees should 
direct ; and that if the consignments should be duly made, the 
principal should not be called in before the 31st December, 1852, 



41 

and the trustees should not be at liberty to pay it off before that 1860. 
day unless Cafary should be willing to receive it. June 23. 

It appears that, according to the laws of Ceylon, it is essential — 

to the validity of deeds affecting immoveable property there, that 
they should be executed in the Island (Ord. No. 7 of 1840) and this 
deed, therefore, was not executed until the 15th of February, 1848, 
when the several parties executed it in the Island by attorneys ap- 
pointed for the purpose. The respondent, George Smyttan Duff, 
who was the Manager of the Ceylon branch of the Oriental Bari, 
was the attorney by whom it was executed on the part of Caffary. 

In order to effectuate the agreement with Caffary, it was 
necessary of course to provide for the negotiation of the bills for 
<£4,000, to be drawn upon bin by David Baird Lindsay, and, 
accordingly, contemporaneously with the agreement entered into 
with Caffary, an arrangement was come to by the trustees with 
the Oriental Bank for the Bank's discounting those bills. This 
they agreed to do, on being guaranteed by the other executors and 
trustees of the Testator ; and, accordingly, on the 20th of January, 
1848, the appellants and James Hadden gave their joint and seve- 
ral guarantee to the bond for the payment of the bills to the 
amount of £4,000. 

Upon the occasion of the power of attorney being sent by 
Caffary to Duff, empowering him to execute the deed of the 15th 
of February, 1848, on his behalf, Caffary, on the 24th of December, 
1847, wrote to Duff to the effect, that when the deed was executed 
by the attorneys of the executors, David Baird Lindsay was 
authorized to draw upon him (^Caffary) for the £4,000, to dis- 
charge the existing mortgage, and that the title-deeds of the estate 
were then to be handed over to Duff, and he requested that Duff 
would hold them on his behalf, ajid in answer to this letter, Duff, 
on the 15th of February, 1848, wrote to Caffary that the deed had 
been executed by the attorneys of the executors, and that David 
Baird Lindsay had negotiated through the Bank the bills to the 
amount of the £4,000, which was to be appropriated to the dis- 
charge of the mortgage, but that there had not been time to pay 
over the amount and receive the title-deeds. On the 19th of 
February, 1848, however, he again wrote to Cafary that every- 
thing requested in his letter of the 24th of December had been 
complied with. In fact, immediately upon the execution of the 
deed of the 15th of February, 18i8, David Baird Lindsay drevf 
upon Caffary for the £4,000 ; the bills were discounted by the 
Bank, and by means of the moneys thus raised, and of other 
moneys raised by bills drawn by David Baird Lindsay drew upon 
Caffary and discounted by the Bank, the mortgage was paid off, 
and the title-deeds of the estate were handed over to Duff. 

It seems that by the rules of the Ceylon branch of the Orien- 



42 

1860. tal Bank, collateral security was required to be given with bills on 
June 23. England, and that in consequence of David Baird Lindsay's 
having negotiated through the Bank the bills beyond the amount 
of £4,000, an arrangement was come to by Du§ with David 
Baird Lindsay, who had then returned to Cei/lon, that he should 
give a temporary mortgage of the estate, to become void on pay- 
ment of the bills, subject to the mortgage in favour of Caffary. 
In pursuance, as it would seem, of this arrangement, an applica- 
tion was made to the District Court of Kandy by David Baird 
Lindsay, on the 28th of February, 1848, for the authority of that 
Court to mortgage the estate. This application proceeded upon 
allegations that the testator, at the time of his decease, was indebt- 
ed to the amount of about £12,500, of which £8,500 was secured 
by mortgages which had become payable and had been called in, 
and that David Baird Lindsay held full authority from the other 
executors of the will to mortgage the estate, with a view to 
discharge the above claims, and to meet the necessary expenses 
attending the up-keep and cultivation of the plantations. 

By an order of the Distict Court of Kandy, made upon this 
application, and dated the same 28th of February, 1848, it was 
ordered that David Baird Lindsay, as executor aforesaid, be au- 
thorized and empowered to mortgage so much of the testator's 
landed property in Ceylon as should be sufficient to raise £12,000, 
to be appropriated towards payment of the testator's debts, and 
the management and cultivation of the plantations ; and on the 
13th of March, 1848, David Baird Lindsay, executed an instru- 
ment of bond and mortgage in favour of Duff, in which he, David 
Baird Lindsay, was described as sole executor in Ceylon of the 
estate of Martin Lindsay, and whereby he bound himself, his heirs, 
executors and administrators, and all his property whatsoever, to 
Duff, in the penal sum of £4,000 ; and after reciting that he had 
passed and intended to pass bills drawn on Caffary, and payable to 
the Bank, to the amount of £2,000, he, as executor as aforesaid, 
duly authorized thereto by the District Court of Kandy, by the 
order of the 28th of February, 1848, in order to secure the due 
payment of the bills to the amount of £2,000, mortgaged the estate 
which was therein described as being the property of the estate of 
the late Martin Lindsay deceased, to George Smyttan Duff, and 
deposited the title deeds of the estate with him, but subject to a 
mortgage for £6,000, thereafter to be made in favour of Caffary, 
in pursuance of the articles of agreement of the 15th of February, 
1848, and the bond was conditioned to be void, if, upon non-pay- 
ment of the bills, the £2,000, with interest and expenses, should 
be paid by David Baird Lindsay, his heirs, executors, or adminis- 
trators, upon demand. 

In the month of May, 1848, before the bills which had been 



43 

had been drawn by David Baird Lindsay and negotiated through 1860. 
the Bank had become due, Caffary, on whom the bills were drawn, June. 23. 
stopped payment, and there was at this time due to him, on his 
account with the testator's and trustees, a very large balance, a 
considerable portion of which, to the amount of upwards of £2,800, 
appears to be still remaining unpaid. 

In consequence of Ga£anfs failure, it became necessary that ' 
new arrangements should be made with reference to the payment 
of the bills which had been drawn on Cafiary, and to the carrying 
on the cultivation of the estate ; and David Baird Lindsay ac- 
cordingly again came over to this country : but before leaving 
Ceylon he was required by Duff to give further security to the 
Bank, and, accordingly on the 11th of July, 1848, he executed 
another instrument of bond and mortgage in favour of Duff, in 
which he was also described as sole executor in Ceylon of the estate 
of Martin Lindsay, and whereby he bound himself, his heirs, 
executors and administrators, and all his property whatsoever, to 
Duff, in the penal sum of £14,000, and after reciting that he had, 
by virtue of an agreement made between him and the devisees and 
trustees of the late Martin Lindsay with Caffary, dated the 15th 
of February, 1848, drawn the bills on Caffary for £4,000, and 
that Caffary had suspended payment, and that a bill which had 
been drawn upon him by Messrs. Hudson ^ Chandler, on account 
of the Rajawelle estate, and had become payable to the Bank, and 
which he had accepted, had been returned protested, and that the 
Bank had agreed to advance £230, on a bill drawn by him on his 
mother, to carry on the Rajawelle estate during his absence from 
Ceylon, and that other bills on Shaw & Caffary had been passed 
by him to the Bank, with shipping documents for coffee shipped, 
and which oofEee was supposed not sufficient to cover the amount 
of the bills. He, as executor, as aforesaid, duly authorized there- 
to by the District Court of Kandy, by order thereof, dated the 
28th of February 1848, mortgaged the estate, which in this instru- 
ment also was described as being the property of the estate of the 
late Martin Lindsay, to Duff, for securing the due payment of the 
bills of exchange and sums of money aforesaid, and the bond was 
conditioned for the payment on demand of the bills of exchange 
and other moneys aforesaid, with interest and expenses, but with a 
■proviso, that the sum to be recovered upon it should not exceed 
£7,000. 

David Baird Lindsay also, at the same time, executed a 
warrant of attorney to confess judgment, and consented to the 
issuing of execution upon the bond ; and on these securities being 
executed, Duff, on the same 11th of July, 1848, wrote and deliver- , 
ed to David Baird Lindsay the following letter :— 



44 

T860 " Oriental Bank, Colomho, 

Jnne^ 23. „ j^^^^ g.^^ « ^ j^j^ j^^^^ ^g^g_ 

" With reference to the £4,000 bill drawn by you on Shaw 
& Caffary, of London, on the 15th of February, 1848, at six 
months' sight, to the failure of those parties, and to the yisit you 
now propose paying to London, to endeavour to form a new con- 
nection, I . hereby agree, on the part of this Bank, that, provided 
the cultivation of Rajawelle is properly kept up, you shall not be 
proceeded against on the said bills in the event of their dishonour 
until your return to Ceylon, or say previous to the 1st Jany. 1849." 

The arrangements thus entered into by Duff with David Haird 
Lindsay were, it appears, immediately communicated to the Bank 
in London. We do not, however, find amongst these papers the first 
letter by which this communication was made ; but on the 15th o£ 
August, 1848, we find a letter from Duff to the Secretary of the 
Bank, stating to the effect, that these arrangenvents gave the Bank 
the first mortgage over the whole property to the full extent of 
their claim against David Baird Lindsay not otherwise covered, 
and in this letter, after referring to arrangements which had been 
proposed to the Bank by Mrs. Lindsay, Duff adds, " I suspect that 
Mr. Lindsay is not exactly in a position, at present, to carry out 
the arrangement proposed by his mother. The Bank of Ceylon 
have a claim of about £1,500 against him, a settlement of which 
is only delayed until his return to Ceylon, and he entered into an 
engagement with them not to mortgage the crops ; and unless we 
make him a bankrupt at once, they may lay claim to their share 
of this year's produce/' 

It appears that the Oriental Bank, in the first instance, intend- 
ed to leave the final settlement of the transaction to Duff, but they 
seem afterwards to have changed that intention ; for early in 
November, 1848, they came to an arrangement with David Baird 
Lindsay, who had then arrived in this countiy, which was embodi- 
ed in a deed, dated the 4th of November, 1848, and purporting to 
be made between David Baird Lindsay, described as one of the 
executors and devisees in trust of Martin Lindsay, of the one part, 
and George Smyttan Duff of the other part. By this deed, which 
was executed in this country by David Baird Lindsay and by the 
Secretary of the Bank here, and was intended to have been execut- 
ed by Duff and by David Baird Lindsay by power of attorney in 
Ceylon, after reciting amongst other things, that there was theii 
due from David Baird Lindsay, as such executor as aforesaid, to 
the Bank, the sum of £7,000, or thereabouts, exclusive of interest, 
and that the Bank were also holders of bills to the_ amount of 
£2,000, or , thereabouts, drawn by David Baird Lindsay on Shaw 
& Caffary, which were unpaid, but as collateral security for pay- 



45 

ment of wHch the Bank held bills of lading and shipping documents 1860. 
of coffee; it was agreed, in substance, as follows: that David Baird June 23, 
Lindsay, as such executor as aforesaid, should forthwith assign to 
Duff all crops of cofEee then grown and being on Rajawelle, or 
which should be grown or produced thereon for the space of two 
years next ensuing, and should deliver over all such crops to Duff ; 
and that in case David Baird Lindsay should omit to do so, Duff 
should have power to gather the crops, and to consign the same to 
the Bank in London for sale ; that David Baird Lindsay should 
continue to manage the estate subject to the control of the Bank 
or of Duff ; that David Baird Lindsay should not, during the said 
term of two years, mortgage the estate or the crops without Duff's 
consent ; that the Bank would during the two years or such part 
thereof as David Baird Lindsay should fulfil the agreement, ad- 
vance for the cultivation of the estate such sums as should be 
necessary for the purpose, after applying the nett proceeds of the 
crops of coffee, but so as not to exceed in any year a certain 
average sum ftir every hundred-weight of coffee delivered to the 
Bank in that year; that the proceeds to arise from the sale of the 
coffee should be applied, first, in payment of the expenses of culti- 
vation; secondly, in payment of £40 monthly to the appellant, 
Elsy Lindsay ; thirdly, in payment of the sums advanced by the 
Bank for cultivation, with interest ; and fourthly, in reduction of 
the £7,000, and of so much of the £2,000, as the shipments of the 
the coffee appropriated to the payment thereof should be insuffi- 
cient to satisfy ; that at the expiration of the term of two years, 
the Bank should have power to sell the estate, and that the proceeds 
of the sale should be applied -in payment of the £7,000, and 
£2,000, and of all other moneys advanced by the Bank, and as to 
any surplus upon the trusts of the Will 'of Martin Lindsay, and 
that nothing therein contained should prejudice the rights of the 
Bank or of Duff over the estate under their two several bonds and 
mortgagesj or over the title-deeds or any other property secured by 
the bonds. 

This deed, it appears, was forwarded by the Bank to Duff on 
the 24th of November, 1848, with a power of attorney from David 
Baird Lindsay to a Mr. Moir, authorizing him to execute the deed 
on his, David Baird Lindsay's behalf ; but the deed was never 
executed by Mr. Duff, nor, so far as appears, by Mbir, for before it 
reached Ceylon, Duff, notwithstanding the undertaking contained 
in his letter of, the 11th of July; 1848, had taken the following 
proceeding in the Island. 

On the 30th of November, 1848, he commenced the suit No. 
8,997, mentioned above, against David Baird Lindsay. By the 
libel in this suit, after setting forfih the bond of the 11th of July, 
1848, it was alleged that the sums mentioned in the bond to be 



46 

1860. paid by tbe defendant had been demanded, and had not been paid 
June 23. and that there was due and owing to the plaintiff the sum of 
~ £7,838. 13«. Sd., with further interest on the sum of £7,805 7s. 

part thereof, at the rate of 12 per cent, until payment ; and it was 
prayed, that the defendant might be adjudged to pay the sum of 
£7,838. 13s. Sd., with further interest as aforesaid, and costs. 
Immediately upon the libel being filed, an admission in full of the 
plaintiff's claim was also filed by virtue of the warrant of attorney, 
and thereupon and on the same day it was decreed that the plain- 
tiff recover from the defendant, the said sum of £7,837. 13«. 3d. 
upon the bond dated the 11th of July, 1848, with interest on 
£7,805. 7«., at 12 per cent., from the 28th of November, 1848, 
till payment, and costs of suit ; and it was ordered, that execution 
issue against the property of the defendant for the principal and 
interest. A writ of execution was, thereupon, immediately issued 
to the Fiscal of the Province, whereby he was directed to levy and 
make of the houses, lands, goods, debts and credits oi David Baird 
Lindsays, by seizure, and, if necessary, by sale thereof, the sum of 
£7,838. 13s. 3c?.; and under this writ the sheriff caused the Raja- 
welle estate to be seized and taken. 

Notwithstanding the transmission to Dtiff of the deed of the 
4th November, 1848, the execution was not withdrawn, the Bank 
alleging that in the negotiations which they had had with David 
Baird Lindsay he had misled them as to the power which Dujff' held 
over the estate and its produce. This was the state of matters 
when David Baird Lindsay, again returned to Ceylon, about the 
month of December, 1848. He took no steps to impeach the pro- 
ceedings which had been taken by Duff, and, on the contrary, in a 
letter which he wrote on the 29th of January, 1849, to Ingleton, 
who had been in the management of the estate during his absence, 
and at the time when the property was seized under the execution, 
he expressed himself thus: — " The steps which you took with the 
Bank were perfectly correct. It was no use attempting to resist." 

Under these circumstances the estate was put up to sale by 
the Fiscal on the 5th of March, 1849, and was purchased by Duff, 
on behalf of the Bank, for £2,500, and Duff thereupon entered 
into possession of the estate. By order of the District Court, dated 
the 11th of July, 1849, this sum of £2,500, was ordered to be set 
off against the debt due to the Bank, and by a deed, dated the 6th 
of September, 1849, reciting that, by virtue of the writ of execu- 
tion, the Fiscal had caused to be seized and taken the property 
thereinafter described, and further reciting the sale and the order 
for crediting Duff with the purchase-money against the debt, and 
that thereby Duff had become entitled to all the rights, title, and 
interest, of David Baird Lindsay in the property the Fiscal con- 
veyed the estate to Dnff in fee. 



The £40 per month, by the deed of the 4th of Novc.. .,_, 1860. 
1848, agreed to be paid to Mrs. Lindsay, was paid to her by the June. 23. 
Bank down to the month of April, 1849, but in April, 18.4y, the ~ 

Bank discontinued the payment upon the same allegation, that 
they had been misled by David Baird Lindsay in their negotiations 
with him. They afterwards agreed however, to pay Mrs. Lindsay, 
£25 per month, irrespective of the arrangement made by the deed 
of November, 1848, and without prejudice, and they continued to 
make this payment to Mrs. Lindsay down to the month of April, 
1850, and, perhaps, longer; but the exact time when this payment 
was discontinued does not appear. 

In the month of May, 1852, the Bank sold the estate to 
Colonel Brown George Symttan, and James Ingleton, for the sum 
of £10,000; and by a deed poll, dated the 4th of May, 1852, 
Oeorge Symttan Duff, in consideration of £5,000, paid by Colonel 
Brown, £2,500, paid by Oeorge Symttan, and £2,500, paid by 
James Ingleton, conveyed the estate to those parties in fee, that is 
to say, as to two fourth-parts to Colonel Hrown, one fourth part to 
George Symttan, and one fourth-part to James Ingleton. James 
Ingleton had been, as has been stated, the manager of the estate; 
Colonel Brown was the father-in-law of the respondent, George 
Symttan Duff; and it appears that this respondent advanced to 
Colonel Brown part of the moneys which were required by him to 
enable him to complete the purchase on his part. The respondent, 
however, denies that he was interested in the purchase. It does 
not appear that there is anything to cast suspicion upon George 
Symttan in reference to his connection with the purchase. 

The libel in the suit out of which this appeal arises, was filed 
on the 21st of May, 1853, and answers having been put in, a great 
deal of evidence, both documentary and parol, has been entered 
into on both sides. Their Lordships, however, in the view which 
they have taken of the case, do not think necessary to go at length 
into the evidence. It is sufficient to state that, in their opinion, 
it establishes the facts as above detailed, that it leaves no doubt in 
their Lordships' minds that the mesne profits have been fairly and 
justly estimated, and that the case attempted to be proved on the 
part of the defendants, that Duff 's proceedings in Ceylon were 
occasioned by the cultivation of the estate not having been properly 
kept up, is by no means established to their Lordships' satisfaction. 
Their Lordships have entered thus at length into the details of this 
case, considering that although there are many points arising upon 
the facts which it is not necessary, and would not, indeed, be right, 
for them now to decide, it is upon the whole case, and not upon any 
detached portion of it, that their judgment depends. 

A formal objection to the suit was raised on the part of the 
respondents which it may be convenient first to dispose of. It 



48 

18G0. was objected on their part, that George Smyttan and the Oriental 
June, 23. Bank ought to have been made parties to the suit ; but this is an 
objection of form and not of substance, and is one, therefore, to 
which their Lordships would be most unwilling to accede. They 
do not find that the objection was pointedly, if at all, insisted upon 
by the answers, nor do they find that either Smyttan or the Orien- 
tal Bank was within the immediate jurisdiction of the Court, and 
they readily adopt the view which seems to have been taken by 
the Supreme Court on this point, that the objection was not one to 
which weight ought to be given, unless the justice of the case 
required it. It does not appear to their Lordships that this was 
the case. They see no grounds on which it could be necessary to 
add these parties to the record, unless there was a right of contri- 
bution or of resort over against them ; and if the respondents, the 
defendants of the suit, were wrong-doers as to the plaintiffs (the 
appellants), each liable in solido to them, their Lordships are by no 
means prepared to say, that they were entitled to set up any such 
right to the prejudice of the plaintiff's claims against them, even 
assuming the case to be wholly in equity. At all events, their 
Lordships are satisfied that any possible injustice will be obviated 
by the course which they are about to recommend for Her Majesty's 
approval, and they have no hesitation, therefore, in over-ruling this 
objection, and proceeding to dispose of the case upon the merits. 

On considering the case upon the merits, the questions which 
arise appear to their Lordships to resolve themselves into two 
distinct classes ; the one relating to the claim of the appellants to 
recover the estate, and the other the claims of the respondents 
against the estate. The burthen is, of course, upon the appellants 
as to the one class, and upon the respondents as to the other. As 
to the first class of questions, the title of the respondents to this 
estate rests upon the purchase made by them from the Oriental 
Bank, who became the purchasers of the estate at a sale made 
under an execution upon a judgment obtained, in effect, by the 
Bank against David Baird Lindsay. The first point to be consider- 
ed, therefore, seems to be, whether the estate was properly taken in 
execution and sold under the judgment. We were not referred, in 
the course of the argument, to any peculiar law prevailing in the 
Province of Kandy which could affect this question, or indeed any 
other of the questions which arise in the case, nor have we been 
able to find that any such peculiar law exists. The case, indeed,, 
was argued before us on both sides as depending upon the English 
law, and was so treated in the Courts of Ceylon, and it is suflicientT 
ly evident from the proceedings in the cause that they were not 
taken under the Roman-Duch law which prevails generally in 
Ceylon. "We consider, therefore, that the question must be deter- 
mined according to the principles of the English law. It is to be 



4y 

considered then whether according to that law, this estate was pro- I860 
perly seized and sold under the judgment. Now,- the action on June. . 
which this judgment was founded, was brought upon the hond of 
the 11th of July, 1848, by w^hich David Baird Lindsay was bound 
for the paym.ent of the sum of £7,000. It was upon the obligation 
created by that bond the action proceeded, David Baird Lindsay 
is described in the bond as the sole executor in Ceylon of the 
testator, Martin Lindsay ; but although he is thus described in the 
bond, the condition of the bond is for the payment by him, his heirs, 
executors and administrators ; and their Lordships do not think that 
the description in the bond can in any way alter the liability upon 
it, or convert the debt which was by law his personal debt, into a debt 
due from the estate of the testator. David Baird Lindsay could 
not, as their Lordships think, have pleaded to the action that the 
debt was not due from him personally, but firom him in his charac- 
ter of executor only. Again, the warrant of attorney on which this 
judgment was entered up is from David haird Lindsay personally, 
and does not even purport to be given by him in his character of 
executor ; but what seems to be even more decisive on this part 
of the case is, that the judgment is that the plaintiff do recover 
from the defendant ; that the order for the execution, is for execu- 
tion against the property of the defendant, and that the writ of 
execution is to levy of the houses, lauds, goods, debts, and credits 
of David Baird Lindsay. It is to be seen, then, whether this 
estate, was the property of David Baird Lindsay. Their Lordships 
are of opinion that it was not. It is not disputed that the estate 
was well devised by the will of Martin Lindsay. It was thereby 
devised not to David Baird Lindsay alone, but t6 him and the 
other trustees. It is clear that all the trustees, except Henry 
Lindsay, accepted the trust, _ and the estate, therefore, vested in 
them all. It was argued, on the part of the respondents, that 
David Baird Lindsay having been the sole executor in Ceylon, had 
full power over the estate, and several passages were cited from 
the Butch Executors' Guide in support of that position ; but these 
passages, as their Lordships understand them, relate to the powers 
of a Dutch executor over property governed by the Dutch law. 
They have no bearing upon the question of the power of one of 
several executors and trustees over property, the disposal of which 
is made under, and governed by, ihe English law. It was attempt- 
ed, too, on the part of the respondents, to give effect to this 
judgment, and to the proceedings under it, against this estate, by 
reference to the power given by the Order of the Ceylon Court to 
David Baird Lindsay to mortgage the estate to the amount of 
£12,000; but without reference to the question whether this 
power was well created ; and their Lordships are by no means 
satisfied that it was, having regard particularly to there having 



50 

1860. been no proof of the allegation on which the order proceeded that 
June 23. David Baird Lindsay had full authority from the other executors 
to make the mortgage ; their Lordships do not consider that David 
Baird Lindsay's power to mortgage the estate can be called in aid 
of this judgment and the proceedings upon it. The bond and 
mortgage, although comprised in the same instrument, are different 
securities, leading to different modes of proceeding ; and the power 
to create the one cannot, in their Lordships' judgment, have any 
influence upon the question as to the validity or invalidity of the 
proceedings under the other. There are other considerations 
which may affect the validity of this judgment and of the proceed- 
ings under it ; the amount of the debt for which it was entered up ; 
the times at which the several parts of the debt were payable ; and 
the circumstances under which the judgment was obtained and the 
execution issued : but these considerations, although they might 
affect the case as between the appellants and the Bank, might not, 
perhaps, be available to the appellants as against the respondents; 
and their Lordships, therefore, must not be understood to rely upon 
them. They rest their judgment upon the question as to the vali- 
dity of the seizure and sale of the estate upon the fact, that the 
estate was not the px-operty of the judgment debtor, and that so 
far as he had any interest in it which was liable to be taken under 
the judgment, that interest was vested in him as a trustee only. 

It was ai-gued, however, on the part of the respondents that 
whatever might be the rights of the appellants against the Bank, 
they had no such rights against the respondents. That the res- 
pondents were purchasers for value without notice, but it is clear 
that the respondents are affected with notice. Their very pur- 
chase-deed refers to the conveyance by the Fiscal to the Bank, 
' That conveyance refers to the judgment ; the judgment refers to 
the bond and to the order of Court ; and both the bond and the 
order of Court refer to the will by which the estate was devised 
to the trustees. It cannot be doubted, therefore, that the respon- 
dents must be taken to have had notice of the will, and of the 
devise to the trustees which it contains: hut independently of the 
notice which is thus traced to the respondents, their title rests 
wholly on the judgment ; and as purchasers from those who 
purchased under that judgment, they were surely bound to see that 
the proper parties were before the Court to be bound by the 
judgment which was the root of their title. Moreover, if the 
Fiscal had not, as their Lordships think he had not, any authority 
to seize or sell the estate, it is diificult to see how his conveyance 
could pass any title to the Bank, or through them, to the 
respondents. 

The responpents, therefore, as it seems to their Lordships, 
have failed to establish any title to the estate against the appellants 



51 

by tlie direct operation of the conveyance under which they claim ; 1860. 
and it follows, therefore, as their Lordships think, that the posses- June 2 
sion miist be restored unless the respondents are entitled to 
maintain their title upon some other ground. It has been argued 
on their behalf that they are so entitled ; that the Courts in Ceylon 
having both a legal and equitable jurisdiction, and the case present- 
ing mixed questions of law and equity, the appellants can have no 
relief, without, as it is said, doing equity by giving effect to the 
equitable claims of the respondents ; but the possession of the' 
respondents was illegally taken, and is illegally held, and their 
Lordships are not prepared to go as far as far as the District Court 
has gone, in decreeing payment to the appellants of the mesne 
profits of the estate. They think that there are some views of this 
case in which the respondents may be able to establish a title to 
those profits, instead of being paid to the appellants, as directed by 
the District Court, ought to be paid into Court, and impounded 
until the respondents shall have had the opportunity of asserting 
their claims. Whether they will assert their claims or not, and 
upon what particular grounds they will rest their claims if they 
think proper to assert them, it is for them and not for their Lord- 
ships to determine. Their Lordships desire only to be understood 
as giving no opinion as to the validity or invalidity of those claims. 
They do not think it would be right for them to enter at all into 
this part of the case. The case has been so complicated by the 
course which has been pursued, that it would be difficult, if not 
impossible, to unravel it in this suit, and their Lordships are not 
satisfied that they have before them all the parties who may be 
interested in the questions of equitable right. 

It remains, then, only to consider the question of costs ; and 
as to this point their Lordships are of opinion that no costs ought 
to have been given "against the plaintifEs, the appellants in the 
Supreme Court, and that the costs of this appeal ought to be borne 
by the respondents, except the Oriental Bank Company, as to 
whom their Lordships agree with the Courts in Ceylon that there 
was no foundation for the suit. 

Their Lordships will, accordingly, humbly recommend Her 
Majesty to reverse the decree complained of, to restore the decree 
of the District Court, so far as it relates to the defendants being 
ejected, and the plaintiffs restored to the possession ; to vary the 
decree of the District Court, so far as it directs the mesne profits 
to be paid to the appellants ; and order those mesne profits to be 
paid into Court ; to direct an account of subsequent rents received 
by the respondents, and order the amount found due to be also 
paid into Court. The moneys to be paid into Court not to be paid 
out without notice to the respondents until the expiration of six 
months from this time, with liberty to the respondents in the 



52 

1860 meantime to take such proceedings as they may be advised for 

June, 23. asserting their claims to the said moneys or any parts or part there- 

— of, or to the said estate, otherwise than under or by virtue of the 

judgment, or any proceedings thereon. The order to be without 

prejudice to such claims. 

Liberty to all parties to apply to the Court. 

The respondents, Duff and Ingleton, to pay the appellants' 
costs of the appeal. 

The following Order in Council was made : — 

It is hereby ordered, that the said decree of the Supreme 
Court of Ceylon of the '8th of March, 1856, be, and the same is 
hereby reversed, and that so much of the judgment of the District 
Court of Kandy, of the 16th of April, -1855, as directed that the 
defendants (respondents) be ejected from the premises, and that 
plaintiffs (appellants) as devisees in trust of the estate of Martin 
Lindsay be restored to and quieted in possession thereof, and that 
the defendants (respondents) do pay the costs of suit except as 
therein mentioned, be, and the same is hereby restored ; but that so 
much of the said judgment of the said District Court as ordered 
mesne profits to the amount of £6,457. 3s. Id. sterling to be paid 
in certain proportions by the respondents, Oeorge Smyttan Duff, 
and James Ingleton to the appellants be, and the same is hereby 
varied by ordering, and it is hereby ordered, that the said mesne 
profits of the estate be paid by the said last-mentioned res- 
pondents in the like proportions into the Eegistry of the Su- 
preme Court of Ceylon, and that an account of the subsequent 
rents and profits of the estate in question received by the respon- 
dents, George Smyttan Duff and James Ingleton, or either of them, 
or by their or either of their orders, or for their or either of their 
use, since the 21st of May,_1853, be taken, and that the amount 
which may be found due upon such an account be also paid by the 
said respondents into the Eegistry of the said Supreme Court. 
And Her Majesty is further pleased to Order, and it is hereby 
ordered, that the moneys so paid into Coui't be not paid out with- 
out due notice to the respondents, Oeorge Smyttan Duff, and James 
Ingleton, until the expiration of six months from the date of this 
order, with liberty in the meantime to take such proceedings as 
they may bs advised for asserting their claim to the said moneys 
or any part or parts thereof, or to the said estate otherwise than 
under or by virtue of the judgment in the [suit No. 8,997 bearing 
date the 30th of November, 1848, or under or by virtue of any 
proceedings in the said judgment. And Her Majesty is hereby 
pleased to declare that this Order is without prejudice to such 
claims, and that all parties are to be at liberty to apply to the 
Supreme Court herein ; and it is hereby ordered that this case bo 



53 

and the same is liereby remitted back to the Supreme Court of 1860. 
Ceylon with, directions to give effect to the same. * Sept. 17. 



29th June. 

Present: — Creasy, C. J., and Sterling and Morgan, J. J. 

C. R. Avisawelle, ) t> i -o n -it 
■KT 10 f -runchy Halle Y. Herea 

In affirming the judgment of the Court below, the judgment of 
the Supreme Court was as follows : — 

With reference to the observations of the commissioner, the 
Supreme Court deems it necessary, to call his attention to the 
Eules, which do not require the drawer of a petition of appeal to' 
affix his signature thereto, or witnesses to attest the signature of 
the appellant. Wherjg the Court has well-founded reason to 
doubt the genuineness of the signature, or mark affixed to the 
petition of appeal, it should not reject the petition, but it should 
receive it and send for the appellant, to ascertain whether the 
signature or mark affixed is his. Any other course of proceeding 
is unauthorized by the Eules, and only calculated to throw 
difficulties in the way of parties, who seek their legitimate remedy 
by appeal. 



Petition of 
appeal. 



I'ith September. 
Present:— tCreast, C. J. and Morgan, J. 

^;t^- f.^^f"^^' \ Peris V. Dissanayeke. 
No. 1105. I 

The Supreme Court set aside the judgment of the Court below 
and remanded the case for a new trial, with liberty to the plaintiff 
to amend his plaint by setting out the original debt. It held, — 

The giving of a note or bill, without a proper stamp, in dis- 
charging a prior debt, will not preclude the creditor from proving 
his original debt by other evidence, Brown v. Watts, 1 Taunt 353; 
Wilson V. Vysar, 4 Taunt 2'88 ; Farr v. Price 1 East 58 ; Chitty 
on Stamps, (2nd ed.) 75. 



See next page, under date Oct. 6th, for further proceedings in this 



Promissory 
note — want 
of stamp — 
proof of ori- 
ginal debt. 



case, 



54 



1860. 
Oct .6. 



General judg- 
ment- 
liability of 
ssTeral de- 
fendants 
thereon. 



6ih October. 
Present: — Creasy, C. J., and Morgan, J. 

N '^fifififi r Lindsay et al v. Oriental Bank Corporation et al. 

For the facts of this case, see pp. 37 to 53, ante. 

In terms of the decree of H. M. in council, reported as ahove, 
plaintiffs were put in posession of the estate and they now moTed 
as follows : 

" 1st. That the defendant George S. Duff he ordered to pay to 
the plaintiff the sum of £701. 6. 7, being the costs in appeal before ' 
the Privy Council. 

" 2nd. That the said George Smyttan Duff be ordered to pay 
into the Registry of this Court the sum of six thousand, four hun- 
dred and fifty seven pounds, three shillings and one penny, being 
amount of the mesne profits from 1st February 1849 to 21st May 
1853. 

" 3rd. That the record be remanded to the District Court of 
Kandy to take account of the mesne profits from the 22nd May 
1853 to 15th August 1860, being the date on which possession of 
Eajawelle Estate was given to the plaintiffs and appellants." 

Dias appeared for plaintiffs, and Bust for defendant Duff. 

The Supreme Court made the following order, wherein are set 
out all the facts pertinent to the matter: — 

In giving judgment on the motion made in this case, it is 
necessary to recapitulate briefly the chief anterior proceedings. 

The suit was instituted in the District Court of Kandy to 
recover prossession of the Eajawella Coffee Estate and profits, and 
for other purposes which it is unnecessary to recount here. 

The District Court gave judgment in favour of the plaintiff 
and ordered that they do recover from the defendants mesne profits 
to the amount of six thousand four hundred and fifty seven pounds 
three shillings and one penny in the following proportions: from 
the defendant O. S. Duff, from 1st February 1849 to 4th May 
1850, and from defendant G. S. Duff, as executor of the Estate of 
Colonel Brown, and J. Ingleton, from 4th May 1850 to 2ist May 
1853, at the rate of one thousand five hundred pounds per annum. 

The defendants appealed to the Supreme Court of this Island 
which reversed the judgment of the District Court and dismissed 
the suit with costs. 

The plaintiffs appealed to Her Majesty in Council against the 
decision of the Supreme Court of this Island, and on the 30th 
June 1860 Her Majesty ordered among other things as follows: 
" That the said decree of the Supreme Court of Ceylon of the 8th 
March 1856 be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that so miich 



of the judgment of the District Court of Kandy of the 16th April 1860. 
1855 as directed that the defendants (respondents) be ejected from Oct. 6 
the premises and that the plaintiffs (appellants,) as devisees in 
trust of the Estate of Martin Lindsay be restored to, and quieted 
in possession thereof, and that the defendants (respondents) do pay 
the costs of suit, except as therein mentioned, be and the same is 
hereby restored ; but that so much of the said judgment of the said 
District Court as ordered mesne profits of the amount of six 
thousand four hundred and fifty seven pounds three shillings and 
one penny sterling to be paid in certain proportions by the respon- 
dents George Smyttan Diiffimd James Ingleton to the appellants be, 
and the same is hereby varied by ordering, and it is hereby ordered, 
that the said mesne profits of the Estate be paid by the said last 
named respondents on the like proportions into the Eegistry of the 
Supreme Cour*- of Ceylon ; and that an account of subsequent rents 
and profits of the estate in question received by the respondents 
Duff and Ingleton, or either of them, or by their or either of their 
order, or for their or either of their use since the 21st May 1853 
be taken and that the amount which may be found due upon such 
an account be also paid by the said respondents into the Registry 
of the said Supreme Court : and Her Majesty is further pleased to 
order, and it is hereby ordered, that the moneys so paid into Court 
be not paid out without duo notice to the respondents George 
Smyttan Duff and James Ingleton until the expiration of six months 
from the date of this order, with liberty in the mean time to take 
such proceedings as they may be advised for asserting their claims 
to the said moneys or any part or parts thereof, or to the said 
Estate, otherwise than under or by virtue of the judgment in the 
suit No. 8,997 bearing date the 30th November 1848, or under or 
by virtue of any proceedings on the said judgment : and Her 
Majesty is hereby pleased to declare that this order is without 
prejudice to such claims, and that all are to be at liberty to apply 
to the said Supreme Court herein, and it is hereby ordered that 
this cause be, and the same is hereby remitted back to the said 
. Supreme Court of Ceylon with directions to give effect to the said 
report, and that the same be punctually observed, obeyed and 
carried into execution." 

Possession of the estate was given to the plaintiffs on the 25th 
August 1860, and the motion which we now have to dispose of has 
relation to the costs and mesne profits. 

The motion was made against Mr. Duff only : the form of it 
as settled by the counsel for the plaintiffs was as follows: — 

" I move, first — That the defendant George S. Duff be ordered 
to pay to the plaintiff the sum of seven hundred and one pounds, 
six shillings and seven pence, being the costs in appeal before the 
Privy Council. 



56 

1860. " 2nd. That the said George Smyttan Duff be ordered to pay 

Oct. 6. into the Registry of this Court the sum of six thousand, four hun- 

~ dred and fifty seven pounds, three shillings and one penny, heing 

amount of the mesne profits from 1st February- 1849 to 21st May 

1853. 

" 3rd. That the record be remanded to the District Court of 
Kandy to take account of the mesne profits from the 22nd May 
1853 to 25th August 1860, being the date on which possession of 
the Rajawella estate was given to the plaintifEs and appellants." 

The first branch of the motion was disposed of almost by con- 
sent. The counsel for Mr. Duff at first objected that the payment 
of the costs therein- mentioned was not ordered by the judgment of 
the Privy Council, but on its being pointed out that such payment 
is ordered by the Report recited in that judgment, which report is 
adjuded to be approved of by Her Majesty, and which report this 
Court is directed to observe and execute, no further opposition was 
made to that part of the application, and an order of the Court in 
that behalf was made on the 17th day of September and these costs 
have been paid accordingly. 

There ia no dispute as to the second branch of the rule so far 
af regards the sum of one thousand seven hundred and eighty five 
pounds, which is admitted to be payable by Mr. Dufi for the mesne 
profits from 1st February 1849 to 4th May 1850. The dispute is 
as to the extent and nature of Mr. Duff's liability in respect of the 
sum of four thousand five hundred and eighty two pounds, three 
shillings and one penny, which represents the mesne profits from 
4th May 1850 to 21st May 1853, and which, with the above men- 
tioned sum of one thousand eight hundred and seventy five pounds, 
make up the amount of six thousand four hundred and fifty-seven 
pounds, three shillings and one penny, mentioned in the judgments 
of the District Court and of the Supreme Court of Appeal. 

With respect to the said sum of four thousand five hundred 
and eighty two pounds, three shillings and one penny, the plaintiffs 
contend that Mr Duff^ is under the judgments in this case liable to 
pay the whole amount. Mr. Duff, by his counsel, contends that, as 
it is a general judgment for that amount against him and another, he 
is only liable to pay a moiety. 

The case is one of very great importance. This court is most 
anxious to observe, obey and quickly carry into execution the 
judgment of Her Majesty in Council, and to give full and accurate 
effect to the Report of the Judicial Committee in this matter. The 
sum of money in question is considerable, — and it has become 
necessary in determining this case to investigate the Law of Ceylon- 
respecting the effect of a general judgment against more than one 
defendant for the same sum : and we feel that the decision which 



0/ 



we are about to pronounce may practically influence the proceeding 1860. 
of our Courts and Piscals in a very great number of cases. O'^*- *'• 

We have therefore had this case argued before us, and we 
have given it our most earnest and careful consideration. "We 
have come to the conclusion that Mr. Diifi is only liable under these 
proceedings for a moiety of the sum of four thousand five hundred 
and eighty two pounds, three shillings and one penny. 

The original judgment of the District Court of Kandy in our 
opinion (for reasons which will be presently set forth) gave the 
plaintiff a right to enforce payment of a moiety of , the sum in ques- 
tion, and of a moiety only, from each of the two defendants, Mr. - 
D)iff and ^Iv. Ingleton ; and we think, after careful and repeated 
examinations of the proceedings, especially of the language of the 
judgment of Her Majesty in Council and of the Report therein 
cited and enforced, that the said judgment of Her Majesty in 
Council has not, in this respect, varied the original judgment of 
the District Court, — but that, so far as regards the payment of the 
mesne profits. Her Majesty in Council has only varied the District 
Court's judgment as to what is to be done to the moneys when 
paid : it has made no change as to the parties and proportions from 
whom and which the payments are to be paid. 

We will now state the grounds of our opinion on the several 
parts of the case. 

First, as to the qiiestion by what law the case must have been 
governed if there had been no proceedings subsequent to the judg- 
ment of the Kandy District Court, and the plaintifirs were seeking 
to enforce their right under that judgment : 

We take it to be quite clear that the extent of the liability of 
each defendant must have been then determined according to the 
Roman Dutch Law. The Ordinance No. 5 of 1852 is decisive as to 
this. It enacts that where there is no Kandyan Law or custom, 
having the force of law applicable to the decision of any matter or 
question arising from adjudication within the Kandyan Provinces, 
for the decision of which other provision is not specially made in 
that Ordinance, the Court shall, in any such case, have recourse to 
the law as to the like matter or question in force within the Mari- 
time Provinces ; which is thereby declared to be the law for the 
determination of such matter or question. 

There was^ and there could be, no pretence in this case of any 
local Kandyan Law existing which could apply to it ; and the law 
therefore by which the question for adjudication was then to be 
determined, was the law in force in the Maritime Provinces. This 
is the Roman Dutch Law, with certain exceptions, not in the least 
affecting the matter now before us. 

What then is the Roman Dutch Law as to the extent of the 
liability of one oixt of two or more defendants who had been jointly 



58 

1860. sued, and against whom a general judgment has been given direct- 
Oct. 6. iug them to pay a certain sum ? 

The point does not appear to have been before this expressly 
brought before our tribunals. We were now only referred to two 
decisions as to costs, Galle D. C. 8262, Amblangodde, D. C. 1676. 

But the authorities to which we habitually refer for guidance 
as to Roman Dutch Law are ample on this subject ; and when they 
are well considered, there is not any discrepancy between them. 

The counsel for the plaintiffs cited in this branch of the case, 
Voefs " Commentary on the Pandects," lib. 9, title 2, sec. 8. 

" Si plures sirmd damnum dederint, adversus singidos hcec 
cestimationis et ejus quod interest persecutio in solidum concessa est, 
sic ut unius prcsstatione cceteri non liberenttir cum sui quisque, non 
alieni delicti pcenam solvat ; sive constet cequaliter omnes occidisse 
dum sirmd trabem dejecenmt hominemqve oppresserunt, sive alter 
tenuerit occidendum, alter interemerit ; sive plures percusserint in rixa 
forte, nee appareat cujus ictu Icesio aut ccedes facta sit." 

They next cited Sande's Decisiones Frisicw, p. 595, giving a 
decision of the Court of Priesland as to the " mulcta civilis " or 
wergeld, payable to the heirs of a man who had been killed by a 
number of brawlers, it not being known what hand had given the 
blow. He says, " At dubitatum quandoque fuit an singuli rixantes 
et tttmultuantes in hanc mttlctam teneantur, an vera una mulcta ab 
omnibus sit solvenda; et curiae magis placuit (15 Julii Anno 1634) 
singidos in solidum hanc mulctam solvere teneri." 

Grotius, book 3, c. 32, sec. 15, and preceding sections (page 
434 in Herberts translation) were also referred to us as an authority 
that " wrong-doers are bound by natural law to make reparation 
each in solidum, provided that on the one paying, the other be exo- 
nerated. 

They cited the dictum of Pothier, vol. 1, p. 409 (Evans' 
translation.) 

The third case of obligations in solido is where several persons 
have concurred in any injury and are each liable to the reparation 
of it. " They cannot oppose any exception of discussion or division, 
being unworthy of it " — to which might have been added the words 
of the same great jurist a little earlier in the book: "So if the debt 
arises from an injury committed by four persons, each is debtor for 
the whole in respect of the person suffering the injui'y, but as be- 
tween themselves, each is only debtor for his share in the injury, 
that is to say, for a fourth of the whole." 

Wood's " Civil Law" was also referred to for a similar maxim. 

But none of those authorities, and none that we have been able 
to find, do more than establish the proposition that a man, who has 
been injured by several wrong-doers, may sue any one whom he 
pleases, and piake that one give him full compensation. But the 



59 

question is, wliether, if the injured man think fit to proceed against 1860. 
two or more jointly, and obtain, not specific judgment that each or Oct. 6. 
some one is to be bound to pay the whole amount, but a general — 

judgment against them all for one sum, he can then make one of 
the co-defendants to pay him the whole sum ordered by the pro- 
portion; for half, if there were two co-defendants; for a third, if 
there were three, and so on. 

There is an abundance of authorities on this ; and the autho- 
rities are high and clear. 

In book 7 of the Code, title 55 : " Si non singuli in solidum, 
sed generaliter tib et collega tuus una et certa quantitate condemnati 
estis : nee additum est, ut quod ab altera servari non posset, id alter 
suppleret : effectus sententios pro virilibiis portionibus discretiis est 
Ideoque parens pro tua portione sententice ab cessationem alterius ex 
causa judicati convenire non potes." 

The commentary of the Dutch jurist Perezius on this, deals 
with the seeming difficulty of a wrong-doer's liability being dimi- 
nished by a judicial sentence against him. He says : " Si plures 
una sententia condemnati s^tnt, executio fieri debet non in solidum, sed 
pro virili tantum parte, etiamsi omnes sint simpliciter condemnati, ad 
miam et certam quantitatem, hoc modo, Titium et Caium et Sempro- 
nium L Titio in centum condemno. 

" JEt hoc utique verum est, etiamsi cceteri non sint solvendo, et 
cum revera singuli ante condemnationem fuerint in solidum obligati 
quia {ut paulo ante diximus tit. super) per judicaium prioris obliga- 
tionis novatio inducitur, et prodest judicatum singulis, ita ut quisque 
videatur condemnatus, in parte sua et absolutus a solidi exactione : 
quae quidem interpretatio et in stipulatione locum habet, 11 ^ 1 ff 1. 
De duobus reis. At dices, iniquum esse ut res adjudicata prosit 
ei contra quem est i judicatum, quia ante condemnationem tenebatur 
in solidum, nunc tenetur pro parte virili. Respondeo, hie non omnino 
judicatum esse contra eum, nam ex parte absolvitur quodammodo, 
scilicet a solidi exactione : Res judicata non prodest judicata, 
quatenus est condemnatus; sed solum ex accidenti ei prodest, res- 
peetu ejus quod in condemnatione est omissum, id est, quatenus 
absolutus est a solidi exactione, qui ante condemnationem tenebatur in 
solidum." 

Faber who is quoted by Perezius on this subject, distinctly 
says, {Codex Fabrianus, p. 870), that unless the judgment expresses 
that each defendant is bound in solidum non tenentur singuli 
nisi ad viriles. 

The Pandects, book 42, tit. 1, sec. 43 declare, " eos qui una 
sententia in unam quantitatem condemnati sunt pro portione virili 
ex causa judicati conveniri, et si ex sententia, adversus tres dicta 
Titius portionem sibi competentem exsolvit : ex persona cv* 'm 
ex caiem sententia conveniri exm non posse," 



CO 

1860. Another Dutcli jurist Brunnemann in his commentary on this 

Oct. 6. passage, says, " Si phires condemnatittir in una sententia, non 
cmsentur in solidum damnati, sed quilibet pro parte : quod Bartohis 
de eo etiam casu intelUgit, ubi duo in solidum alias tenentur, et diri- 
sionis beneficio renuncianmt : nam nihilominus novum ex sententia 
exurgit beneficium divisionis, quia est, quod creditori imputari possit, 
cur non contra unum egerit." (42. 1. 43.) 

The same writer, p. 894, makes a similar remark as the 
passage from the Code already cited. 

The authorities which we have been reviewing shew that it is 
in the power of the Court, which giyes judgment against two or 
more defendants, to make any of them liable in solido by inserting 
words to that effect in the judgment; and many cases might be 
suggested in which it would be right and proper to do so. But the 
District Court of Kandy did not do so here ; and we are clearly of 
opinion that, tinder this judgment of the District Court, Mr. Duff 
could only have been required to pay a moiety of the sum in 
question. 

The general effect of the proceedings subsequent to the judg- 
ment of the District Court, is, that that judgment was set aside by 
the Supreme Court of Ceylon, but that the judgment of Her Maj- 
esty in Council has revived it with variations. This is the manner 
in which the case has been dealt with by both parties during the 
argument on this motion. The dispute, between them is as to what 
are the variations. The plaintiffs' contention is as follows : Even 
supposing that the matter might, under the original judgment, 
have been dealt with according to the Koman Dutch law, and that 
Mr. Duff would, under that original judgment, have been com- 
pelled to pay a moiety only, that judgment, has now been varied 
and each party has been made liable in solido by the ultimate 
Court of Appeal. 

The learned counsel for the plaintiffs did not, for proof of 
this proposition, rely on any particular words of the judgment of 
Her Majesty in Council, or of the Teport of the Judicial Com- 
mittee ; but he endeavoured 'to shew that certain passages in that 
judgment and report, which were seemingly opposed to his argu- 
ment, were not so in reality when properly considered. The 
passages which we mean, are those which respectively recommend 
and order, "that the said mesne profits of the estate be paid by 
the said last named respondents in the like proportions into the 
Eegistry of the Supreme Cotu't of Ceylon." It is maintained on 
behalf of the plaintiff that this direction about preserving the pro- " 
portions, in which the parties are to pay, has reference solely to 
that distributive part of the District Court's judgment, which 
directed the pi'ofits for the time between the 10th February 1849 
and the 30th April 1850, to bo paid by Jlr. DulT, ivhich is different 



61 

from tte directions given as to the payment of the mesne profits I860, 
whicli accrued after that date. '^'^'- ^■ 

It seems to us more natural to understand the general words 
of the judgment and. report of the Supreme Tribunal as generally- 
applicable to the whole topic, and to consider that all the distri- 
butive regulations of the District GoTirt, as to proportions of 
payment, are preserved and re-ordained by the judgment of Her 
Majesty. But we do not say that these passages would of them- 
selves decide the case, if there were clear expressions to the con- 
trary in other parts of the judgment and report: but no such ex- 
pression can be found in either of those instruments. 

The learned counsel for the plaintiffs chiefly relied on parts 
of the printed judgment of the Lords of the Privy Council, deliver- 
ed on the 23rd June in the year, at the conclusion of which they 
stated the recommendations which they were prepared to make to 
Her Majesty. That printed judgment is not itself the order of 
Her Majesty, which we are to carry into effect, but of course it is 
entitled to our deepest respect and we have studied it^ anxiovisly 
before arriving at our decision. The words of the printed judg- 
ment, on which the plaintiifs mainly rely, are to be found at p. 15. 
Their Lordships are there dealing with an objection taken to the 
suit on account of the non-joinder of Geoige Smyttan Diiff and the 
Oriental Bank, and they use these words : 

" They see no grounds on which it could be necessay to add 
" these parties to the record, unless there was a right of contri- 
" bution or resort against them ; and if the respondents, the defen- 
" dants to the suit, were wrong-doers as to the plaintiffs (the ap- 
" pellants) each liable in solido to them, their Lordships are by no 
" means prepared to say that they were entitled to set up any such 
" right, to the prejudice of the plaintiffs' claim against them, even 
" assuming the case to be wholly in equity." 

All, however, that this passage imports is, that one injured 
party may sue one or more out of several wrong-doers, and 
is not bound to sue all; if he sues one, that one is liable in solido, 
unless the Court specially modifies such liability: if he sues two 
or more out of a larger number, those two or more are collectively 
liable to him in solido unless the Court specially modifies such 
liability, and the suit cannot be stopped by a plea of nonjoinder. 
Such, as we have said, is the Eoman Dutch Law also on this sub- 
ject. But their Lordships say nothing which implies th^t the 
plaintiffs here, who have sued a certain number of defendants and 
who have got, in this part of the case, a genei'al judgment for the 
same sum against two defendants, have a right to make any one of 
the two pay in solido under that judgment; and it is this last 
question which is the matter for our present determination ; not the 
question of non-joinder, to which their Lordships remarks arc directed. 



62 

I860. Other passages in tlie same printed judgment were referred to, 

ct^ b. jjj which their Lordships spoke of certain questions with which 
they were specially dealing, as questions which they were to 
determine according to English Law. But this particular question, 
as to the liability of one defendant to pay in solido under the 
judgment against two, was not one of those questions, and is not 
deaded by what was said as to those questions. Holding as we do, 
that Mr. Duffs liability under the original judgment as to the 
sum in dispute was only a liability to a moiety, we should be slow 
to consider that limited liability changed into liability in solido, 
not by any words in the judgment of Her Majesty, or in the 
report embodied in Her Majesty's judgment, and not by any 
express decision of the Lords of the Privy Council in their printed 
judgment, but by vague inferences and analogies, drawn from 
other parts of the printed judgment which expressly deal with 
other matters. 

If, indeed, we were to determine this point by analogical 
reference to the report of the Lords of the Judicial Committee and 
the judgment of Her Majesty in Council on other points, there is 
a clear decision on a part of the case closely connected with the 
present, which appears to show an intention not to make any of 
the defendants liable in solido to the plaintiffs for mesne profits. 
We refer to that part of the judgment of Her Majesty in Council 
which deals with the mesne profits subsequent to the 21st May 
1853. The printed judgments of the Lords of the Judicial Com- 
mittee clearly shew (in the passage at page 16 already cited) that 
attention had been expressly called to the fact that Oeorge 
Smyttan had become interested in the estate to the extent of one- 
fourth; and that an objection on the ground of the non-joinder of 
Oeorge Smyttan was made and over-ruled ; and it was in dealing 
with that objection that their Lordships used the words already 
cited " if the respondents, the defendants to the suit, were wrong— 
" doers as to the plaintiffs (the appellants), each liable in solido to 
" them, their Lordships are by no means prepared to say that they 
" were en'jitled to set up any such right to the prejudice of the 
" plaintiffs' claims against them, even assuming the case to be 
" wholly in equity." But what follows? Continue to read the printed 
judgments and it will be found that their Lordships proceed to say 
" at all events their Lordships are satisfied that any possible con- 
" jecture will be obviated by the course which they are about to re- 
" commend for Her Majesty's approval." To know what their Lord- 
ships recommend, we must turn to the report, as it is recited in the 
judgment of Her Majesty in Council, and which we are, by that 
judgment, ordered to carry into effect. The recommendation ia 
not, and the consequent judgment is not,, that Duff and Ingleton 
pay the whole mesne profits of that period, it is not that Duff or 



63 

Ingleton pay the whole mesne prpfits of that period, though in the 1860. 

judgment of the Lords of the Privy Council Duff and Ingleton are Oct. 6. 

wrong^doers, who, with or without the co-operation of ethers, haTe 

deprived the plaintiffs of the lawful possession of their estate. 

But the recommendation is, and the consequent judgment is, " that 

" an account of subsequent rents and profits of the estate in question 

" received by the defendants (respondents), Duff and Ingleton, or either 

" of their or by their or either of their order or for their or either of 

"their use, sinje the 21st May 185.3 be taken, and that the amount 

" which may be found due upon such an account be also paid by the 

" said respondents into the registry of the said Supreme Court." If 

it should turn out that George Smyttan has during this latter 

period received his fourth share of interest in the estate, neither 

Duff nor Ingleton is required to pay over the fourth that may have 

been so taken by George Smyttan or any portion of it. All that 

they have to pay is, what has been received by them or either of 

them. This seem to us inconsistent with the idea of the decision of 

the Supreme Court of Appeal having established a liability of each 

or any one defendant in this case under these proceedings to make 

recompense in solido to the plaintiffs for the wrong conmiitted in 

depriving the plaintiffs of the profits of the estate. 

Another question was raised before us on this branch of the 
rule, which we have kept distinct from the important and intricate 
question which we have been hitherto considering. The rule is 
moved as against Mr. i>M^ personally. His counsel says that in 
respect of his liability to pay the whole or part of this sum of four 
thousand five hundred and eighty two pounds, three shillings and 
one penny, it ought to have beeen made against him as executor 
of Alexander Brown, and our attention has been called to the 
proceedings in the case, and especially to the judgment of the 
District Court. But in this respect the order of Her Majesty in 
Council is express. It says of the sum of six thousand four 
hundred and fifty seven pounds, which includes the four thousand 
five hundred and eighty two pounds, three shillings and one penny, 
that it is to be paid by the said last named respondents. On looking 
back to see who these last named respondents are, we find the 
nearest applicable antecedents are the words " George Smyttan Duff 
and James Ingleton." The words of the corresponding portion of 
the report are precisely the same. Her Majesty's judgment requires 
of us " that the report be punctually observed and obeyed." We 
therefore do not feel ourselves at liberty to vary it, nor do we think 
that it would be respectful or proper in use to enter into the enquiry 
whether the omission of the words " as executor of Alexander 
Broivn,\ after Mr. Duff's name in those parts of the report and 
judgment, was caused by inadvertence or design. We dwell the 



64 

1S60. less on this point of the case because it was treated on botli sides 
Oct. 6 as of little or no practical importance. 

^Ye come now to the concluding part of his motion which has 
reference to the enquiry to ascertain the rents and profits since the 
21st May 1853. In addressing the Court, the counsel for the 
appellants put this part of the motion in 'an alternative form, and 
asked that the account should be taken either by the District ot 
Supreme Court : though in the form of the rule ultimately handed in, 
the alternative was omitted. The Order of Her Majesty in Council is 
addressed to the Supreme Court to execute and carry into immediate 
effect Privy Council judgments in such manner as any " original 
judgment or decree of the said Supreme Court can or may be exe- 
cuted." It appears to us that regard being had, as well to the 
general directions given in the Charter, as to the specific instructions 
issued in this case, we are ourselves bound to carry the judment 
of the Privy Council into effect, so far as we can act in this Court, 
and that we are only to employ the agency of the District Court 
where the process of this Court, which has no civil jurisdiction, is 
insufficient effectually to secure any particular object. Thus, for 
instance, this Court does not originally issue writs of execution 
against person or property, and it is necessary therefore to call in 
the agency of the District. Court to carry into effect our orders 
requiring parties to pay any sum of money to which we hold them 
liable. But we have the power in certain cases to hear evidence in 
civil cases (sec. 35th clause of the Charter, and Ordinance No. 2 
of 1852 clause 9), and can therefore ourselves comply with the 
requirements of the Privy Council judgment as to the accounting : 
and what we can do ourselves we feel that we are bound to do. 

We are the more confirmed in this impression by the conside- 
ration that Tjy taking evidence ourselves we should save the parties 
some portion at least of the delay and expense which an order 
referring them to the District Court would necessarily give rise to, 
and these are objects of moment in a suit pending since 1853. 

It is ordered that the respondent Dvff do pay into the Registry 
of the Supreme Court the sum of one thousand, eight hundred 
and twenty-five pounds, and two thousand, two hundred and 
ninety-one pounds, one shilling, six pence and half-penny, amouting 
to four thousand one hundred and sixty-six pounds, one shilling, 
six pence and half-penny in the whole. And that the District 
Court do upon the application of the parties issue the necessary 
writs of execution to enforce this order. 

It is further ordered that the parties do appear before this 
Court on the twenty-sixth day of October instant, with their 
witnesses, for the purpose of taking the account directed by Her 
Majesty in Council. 



65 

On the parties appearing on the 26tli October, tte Supreme I860. 
Court referred (27th Oct.) the account, directed to be taken by — 

Her Majesty in Council, to the Eegistrar, -with power to him to 
examine witnesses, if necessary. 

The Eegistrar submitted the following report: — 

In obedience to the order of the 27th October 1860, directing me to take 
the account ordered of the Privy Covincil, and to report thereon, I have the 
honor to inform your Lordships that after a careful examination of the 
accounts by the parties themselves, they handed in a statement shewing a 
sum of sixteen thousand seven hundred and twenty six pounds and four, 
pence (£16,726 4), to be due in respect of the profits of the Rajawelle 
Estate from 1853 to 1860. This sum exceeds by seven hundred pounds only 
that shewn in the respondent's, Buff's account. In arriving at this sum of 
sixteen thousand seven hundred and twenty six pounds and four pence 
(£16,726 4), which both parties admitted to be due, the question of ■ 
interest and commission were not however settled between them. Interest 
(amounting to three thousand, nine hundred and sixty two pounds, one 
dtiilling and seven pence) has been charged by Dnff in the accounts on the 
capital embarked, and commission (amounting to four thousand one hun- 
dred and forty three pounds, nine shillings and six pencej on the sales and 
purchases on account of the estate. Both of these charges appear to me to 
be reasonable and proper. The capital embarked in the undertaking was 
the purchase money paid for the estate, and Mr Skand, Mr. Nicol, Mr. 
Thompson, Mr. Mwray Rohertson and Mr. Ch/ristian, all agree, that interest 
should be charged on capital in calculating profits. In the words of Mr. 
M. Robertson " the profits cannot be arrived at, without." 

The charge for commission is in like manner proved by the gentlemen 
above named though differing somewhat as to the rate, it is also proved by 
Mr. Rrorvn, called for the appellants; as to the rate, there is some slight 
difference ; most however agreeing that 5 per cent is that rate, but all say- 
ing that it is the rate where no special agreement is made, being that agreed 
upon by the Chamber of Commerce. This commission also in rendering the 
accounts to the proprietors, was always deducted by Mr. Duff. There re- 
mains only to consider an item of one hundred pounds, being interest on a 
sum of one thousand pounds, borrowed for estate purposes, and since paid, 
and I can see no reason for treating this other than as interest on capital. 
I therefore think that the amount eight thousand two hundred and five 
pounds, eleven shillings and one penny inserted in the respondent Duff't 
accounts being interest on 

Capital... ... '.., ... ... ...£3962 1 7 

Commission ... ... ... ... ... 4143 9 6 

and interest on £1,000 borrowed ... ... ... 100 

was properly so inserted, and should be allowed, and that the balance which 
was agreed to between the parties freserving the determination of these 
questions^, viz. sixteen thousand, seven hundred and twenty six pounds, 
and four pence, should be taken to be the rents and profits of the Rajawelle 
Estate from 1860. I beg therefore to report that the shares in which the 
proprietors held the estate and divided the profits were as follows : 
Estate of jBrore're, i)ii^ Executor ... ... ... one half 

IngJeton ... ... ... ... one quarter 

Dr.Smyttan ... ... ... ... one quarter 

The profits- divided in these portions would stand thus: — 

Estate of ^rorora ... ... ... ...£8,363 2 

Ingleton ... ... ... ... 4,181 10 1 

J}r. Smyttan ... ... ... 4,181 10 1 



66 

1860. Considering the small amount added to the sum stated by Ihifi in his 

■ — original account, only seven hundred pounds, of whicli nearly three hund- 

red pounds is not money actually received, biit " estimated profit," and 
considering the great difference between the sum now reported, due to the 
appellant and their claim, I beg to recommend that all costs of this 
reference be borne by the appellant. 

Dias was heard for plaintiffs. 
■Rust for defendants. 

The Supreme Court made the following order, on the 3rd 
Novemher: — 

It is ordered that the defendant Ihiff do pay into the Eegistry 
the sum of ten thousand three hundred and foi'ty four pounds, 
eleven pence and half penny. 

Costs to stand over. 

The first objection to the Kegistrar's report is, that in ascer-. 
taining these mesne profits, he has deducted inter alia from the 
gross receipts a sum which represents the nature of the services ren- 
dered by Mr. Duff in managing the sale of its produce. . . 

The principal was disputed, and to the amount of the charge. 
The rate of charge was admitted to be fair and reasonable; and in 
answer to questions from, the Court, during the argument, it was 
distinctly admitted on the side of the appellent that such services 
as Mr Duff performed were absolutely necessary in order to 
realize the profits of the crops ; and that if they had been per- 
formed by any ordinary hired commission agent, the expense to the 
estate would have been greater. 

The Supreme Court thinks the deduction proper. 

It is conceded on all hands that in order to ascertain how much 
the defendants have received out of the estate during the time in 
question it would be absurd and unjust merely to reckon the in- 
comings. These give the mere gross ; all fair and actual outgoings 
must be deducted in order to get the net receipts, that is, the real 
receipts in the true sense of our enquiry. The outgoing in ques- 
tion actually took place; it occurred honestly and bonajide, and the 
Supreme Court does not think the appellants ought to profit by its 
effects without allowing for the costs. 

The true spirit of these proceedings is, or ought to be, a desire 
to re-instate the plaintiff so far as possible in the position of advan- 
tage, which they would have held if they had not been dispossessed 
by tte defendants, during the time in question. This is all that 
ouulit to be sought. If the Zm&ay« had been in possession from 
1853 to 1860, they would have received the proceeds of the crops, 
less, inter alia, four thousand one hundred and eighty three pounds 
four shillings and five pence for commission on sales. The 
Supreme Court thinks, that they have no right to it. 

It is said that Mr. Duff is a wrong-doer, and ought not to take 
advantage of his own wrong. In the strict legal sense of the word, 



67 

Mr. Duff is undoubtedly a wrong-doer, for it turns out, at the end, I860, 
that he did wrong in thinking himself and the co-defendants to be — 

entitled to the Rajawelle Estate, and in acting accordingly. But 
there can seldom have been a conflict of claims to property, in 
which the bona fides, and moral integrity of the unsuccessful liti- 
gant, were more clear than in the case of Mr. Duff. The true 
sense in which the Supreme Court should understand an ambiguous 
word, is sometimes best illustrated by comparing it with other 
words, which are etymologically its co-equals, but which have res- 
pectively acquired more decided meanings. In saying that these 
defendants are " wrong-doers," this Court means that they are what 
our old Norman French law calls " tort-feasors." It would be 
absurd to say, that they are wrong-doers, in the popular sense of 
the word — " malefactors." 

The second item in dispute, is a deduction of three thousand 
eight hundred and sixty-two pounds, and seventeen shillings for 
interest on the original purchase money, by which the defendants 
obtained the estate. The Supreme Court thinks this deduction 
wrong. It would be monstrous for a defeated defendant, in eject- 
ment, to claim from the rightful owner, the purchase money which 
he, the defendant, had given, and which enabled him to obtain his 
illegal possession. 

The Supreme Court does not think that they can claim interest 
any more than they could claim capital. The Supreme Court 
intimated, during the" argument, its disposition to allow interest on 
any working capital, that had been bona fide employed for the 
benefit of the estate, but the defendants have not wished the 
enquiry to be re-opened on this point. 

Next, the appellants object to Mr. Duff being only required 
to pay the half of the profits ; which half was what he really 
received. They say that he ought to pay all, with regard to the 
argument, that each defendant in a case like this is liable to pay 
in solido. The Supreme Court considers that this point was decid- 
ed by the judgment, which this Court recently delivered in this 
case ; and in which this Court examined at great length, and with 
great care, first, the question of what law was to regulate the 
respective liabilities of these co-defendants, in the joint judgment 
against them, and, secondly, what were the requirements of the 
Eoman-Dutch Law on the subject. The Supreme Court adheres 
to that judgment for the reasons therein given, and this Court thinks 
that the language of the judgment of Her Majesty in Council, 
requires this Court to make such of the wrongful recipients of the 
profits of this estate, to repay what each had received ; and not to 
make any one pay for what has been taken by the others. The 
Supreme Court cannot give any weight to the argument that the 
moneys went first into the hands of Mr. Duff, as manager and 



68 

1860. banker, althougli he immediately credited Ingleton and Dr. Smyttan 

Oct. 29. -with the proper shares. The Supreme Court expressly enquired, 

— whether Mr. Duff had paid any monies over, after the decision of 

the Privy Council was known, hut it was agreed that this had not 

been done. 

The last point brought before the Supreme Court regarded the 
costs. The Supreme Court thinks that the question of costs 
should stand over, until the Supreme Court sees what, if any, 
further proceedings were taken in the matter, according- to the 
leave given by the Privy Council, to the defendant ; and what may 
be the result of such proceedings. 



29th October. 
Present: Oreast, C. J. and Morgan, J. 

C, E. Jaffna, \ Folkard v. Anderson. 

No. 25869 ) 

Bmte animal The Court get aside the judgment of the Court below, in these 

—injury terms: — 

'Zwnter— This is an action brought on account of injuries which the 

liability of plaintifE sustained from some dogs belonging to the defendant. 

owner. Evidence was adduced before the Commissioner of the Court of 

Eequests as to the pernicious habits of the dogs, but he considered 

that there was no sufficient proof of the owner's being aware of 

their ferocity.. ^ i_- • 

We agree with him in thinking the proof as to this point 

insufficient. . 

The Commissioner dismissed the case, holding tliat proot ot 

owner's knowledge of the dog's mi-cheivous habits (technically 

called proof of the scienter) is indispensable for the plamtifE s right 

to a verdict. . , . , ^ u 

According to English Law, the Commissioner's judgment would 
be correct. The English Courts hold that " the gist of the action 
is the keeping of the" animal after knowledge of its mischievous 
propensities," per Lord Denman C. J., in Mayy. Burdett, 9 Q. B. 
101 But according to the Koman-Dutch Law, which we are 
bound to follow, the deci^on ought to have been the other way. 
The Eoman-Dutch Law does not require a man who has been 
injured by the mischievous animal of another man, to prove that 
the owner knew the animal's mischievous habits. The difEerence 
between the two systems of jurisprudence is pomted out by Lord 
Campbell in the very recent case of Gething v. Morgan, which is 
cited and referred to in a very able article of " The Jurist, on the 
liability of owners of animals for injury done by thc»3 animals. 



69 

Lord Campbell in Geihing v. Morgan contrasted tlie law of I860. 
Scotland (which like the Dutch Law is chiefly founded upon the Cfct. 29, 
Roman Law, though the Scotch and Dutch systems are not in all 
respects the same), with the Law of England upon this matter. His 
Lordship ruled that the circumstances of the- case hefore him made 
the defendant liable and shewed sufficient proof oi the scienter ev in 
according to the English law, but his Lordship added, according 
to the Law of Scotland, there is no occasion to shew the previous 
habits of the animal on the scienter, and where an injui-y has been 
done to an innocent person it certainly seems more reasonable that 
the loss should fall on the owner of the animal, which has done the 
mischief, than upon the party injured. 

Lord Camphell in these expressions evidently alluded to the 
well known jural principle that where one of two innocent persons 
must suffer, the loss ought to fall on the one by whose act or omis- 
sion the loss has been caused. 

As the rules of law respecting the liability of owners o£ 
animals are matters of frequent practical importance, we have, in 
framing our judgment in the present case, thought it desirable to 
deal more fully with the subject, than we should have done i£ 
cases of this kind were more rare. 

It is a general rule of Roman-Dutch Law that the owner of a 
brute animal, which has injured another person, is liable for such 
injury, but, the degrees of liability vary according to the nature and 
the habits of the animal, and the circumstances under which the 
injury was inflicted. The authorities on this branch of the law 
are most fully collected in the Gommmtary of Voet on the ninth 
book of the Pandects, tit. " Si quadrupes pauperiem f ecisse dicatur." 
Van Leeuwen in the 39th chapter of his fourth book, being the 
chapter on " Obligations arising from causes similar to crime," is 
explicit on this subject. He also treats of it in the 31st chapter 
of his " Censura Forensis." To these may be added Vanderwater's 
Commentary on the ninth chapter of the 4th book of the Institutes, ' 
the Commentary of Vinnius on the same, Groenewegen de Legibus 
ahrogatis. p. 54, and Grotius, pp. 252, 253, Herbert's Translation. 

The most ancient of all the authorities and the foundation of 
a great part of the law on the subject, is a law of the Twelve 
Tables, cited- and incorporated in the Institutes and the Digest. 
By this law, an actio de pauperie was given to a person who 
Lad "been injured by the brute animal of another, such brute 
animal being of a genus not naturally mischievous to mankind. 
The owner of the animal was under an alternative liability. _ He 
was bound to make good the damage, or to give up to the injured 
person the ' animal that had done the injury. The ^delian Edict 
forbade the keeping of savage animals in or near the places of gen- 
eral resort and thoroughfares so as to endanger the public. If such 



70 

1860. an animal so kept injured a freeman, tte owner was bound to make 
Oct. 29 fijll compensation, and could not relieve himself from sucli liability 
by giving up the animal. "Without discussing here in detail the 
subsequent legislation of Kome and Holland on the subject, we may 
state the general results, as applicable to the administration of 
justice in Ceylon, to be as follows: 

Where a man's brute animal does an injury to another person, 
(such injury not being done through mere accident, and not bfeing 
provoked and caused by the wrongful act of the injured party, and 
and not being immediately caused by the wilful act of a third 
person), the owner is always liable. But the owner's liability is 
limited, if the animal were not of a genus naturally savage, and if 
also the individual animal were not of mischievous habits. The 
limit of the liability of such an innocent owner is this, the amount 
to be given for compensation must not exceed the value of the 
animal which did the injury. But if the animal were of a savage 
genus, or if though not of a savage genus, it were of mischievous 
habits, whether the owner knew those habits or not, the owner 
must make full compensation for the injury done by the animal, 
and cannot limit the damages to be assessed against him by the 
amount of the animal's value. 

There may be cases in which animals not mischievous by 
germs or by habit, may be kept in such places and under such 
circumstance as to make them dangerous to the public. If in such 
cases injury is done by such animals, the owner is liable to make 
full compensation. 

Applying these principles to the present case, the Supreme 
Court finds abundant evidence that the dogs were of mischievous 
habit. There is also evidence as to the place and mode in which 
they were kept, which might be important as to fixing full liability 
on their owner, but that full liability is already established by the 
evidence as to the mischievous habits of the dogs. 

It follows that there must be a verdict for the plaintiff. As 
the defendant's liability in this case is not limited by the value of 
the dogs, there is no need to remit the case for any evidence as to 
this to be taken. It is proved that the amount of the plaintiff's 
doctor's bill was three pounds and fifteen shillings. He asks in 
his plaint for this sum only, and it is therefore unnecessary to esti- 
mate what he might have received for personal suffering and 
annoyance. The judgment of the Court is, that the judment of 
the commissioner be set aside and that there be a verdict for the 
plaintifE for three pounds and fifteen shillings and costs. 



71 

1st November. 1860. 

Nov. 1 
Present: — Creasy, C. J., Sterling, J. and Morgan, J. — 

No' ^ lOB I Bastian Appuhami v. Palhan et al. 

Per Curiam. — Set aside and judgment directed to be entered PromissoTy 

in plaintiffs favor for the amount claimed and costs. The promis- note — joint 
sory note being in its terms joint and several, evidence should not ^"^^ several — 

have been received to show that the second defendant was merely a ^^qIy 
surety. (Abbot v. Hendricks, M. & Gr. 794.) As respects the 
defence of the first defendant, it appears according to his own show 
ing, that he did not deliver the brass pots within the time specified 



' No 1 40P8 ' \ ^^.nawatte Tikery v. Kottepitty Piunee et al. 

The Supreme Court affirmed the order of' the Court below in Estoppel 
in these terms: — ' P"'>'ies. 

The doctrine of estoppel, so far as it applies to privies, proceeds 
on the principle that a party claiming through another is estopped by 
that which estopped that other respecting the same subject matter. 
Thus an heir, who is privij in blood, would be estopped by a verdict 
against his ancestor through whom he claims. Lock, v. Norbourne; 
3 Mod. 141, Smith's Leading Cases, vol. S p. 619. 

The plaintiff in the present case does not claim thrmigh the 
plaintiff in the case Nol3747 nor are the interests claimed in the two 
cases indentical. The plaintiff in 13,747 and the plaintiff in this 
case are co-heirs, claming different portions of and interests in the 
same estate and from the same ancestor. The parties are identified 
in interest and the judgment in the former case will be evidence, 
and very weighty evidence in this. But it cannot be regarded as 
an estoppel, nor will it operate as such. 1 Taylor on Evidence, sec. 
77 and 318. 



5th November. 
Present: — Creasy C. J. Sterling, J. and Morgan, J. 
ivr ' 1 W^ "^""^ ( Samerenayeke et al v. Fernando 

In the following judgment of the Court, the facts of the case Evidence— 
, , . ,. ^ , ° •" ° depositions m 

are clearly indicated :— one case put 

In this case the defendant was charged before the Police in and read in 

Magistrate of Pantura with keeping a house for the purpose of go^gg^^" 

promiscuous gaming, in breach of Ordinance No. 4 of 1841 sec. 19. 



1860. The persons who were found gaming in the house were charg- 

Nov. 5 ed before the same Police Magistrate under the fourth head of the 
. ~" fourth section of the same ordinance. 

prgiudiw '^^^ '^^^^ against the gamblers was taken first. 

of substantial Evidence of the gambling and of the character of the place 

rights of was regularly given against them, and they were duly convicted, 
defendan t. rpj^g charge against the present defendant for keeping the gam- 

ing house was then immediately called on. The defendant 
appeared and was defended by a Proctor. 

It seems that both the defendant and his Proctor had been 
present while the former case was tried. The defendant pleaded 
"not guilty." No witnesses were sworn against the defendant. But 
the depositions which had been taken in the former case were read 
over, and the persons who had given those depositions were offer- 
ed to the defendant for cross-examination. This offer was declined. 

The defendant's Proctor consented to the depositions being put 
in and read as above mentioned 

There was no other evidence against the defendant. 
, He was convicted, and appealed, and the Supreme Court has 

to determine whether the Magistrate in receiving the depositions 
against the defendant, with the defendant's Proctor's consent, and in 
convicting him on those depositions, committed an error in law 
" which prejudiced the substantial rights of the defendant." 

It is only in the event of this Court being of this opinion that 
this Court can correct the proceedings. 

The appeal came on first before His Lordship the Chief Justice 
sitting singly. He considered the question, whether consent can 
cure such in-egularities and error in a criminal case to be one of 
great practical importance, and he therefore reserved it for the 
decision of the Collective Court. As the defendant was bailed, he 
has suffered no prejudice by the delay. 

A cardinal principle of our criminal law, the rule that (with cer- 
tain well known exceptions) all evidence given by witnesses against 
a prisoner must be given by witnesses sworn in the case to tell the 
truth, has been violated in this instance. These witnesses could 
not be. indicted for perjury in reference to this case. 

It would be difficult to indict them for perjury at all as to 
part of their evidence. Their statement as to the ownership to the 
house, as made by them in giving evidence against the gamblers 
might be plausibly argued to be a matter not so material to the 
issue then being tried as to make it legally possible to found and 
sustain assignments of perjury on those parts of the evidence. But 
in the case against the present defendant, those statements about 
ownership were the most material possible. Yet, as against the 
present defendant, those statements were not made on oath at all. 

The Supreme Court thinks this to be such a breach of the 



78 

substantial rules of justice that no consent could make it legal ; 1860. 
and this Court thinks it such a prejudice to the substantial rights of Nov. 5 
an accused man, that the interest which the public has in the due — 

administration of criminal justice requires the error to be corrected, 
even though the individual consented to his own wrong. 

The Supreme Court does not feel obliged to decide in this 
case, whether the consent of an accused party, or his Advocate in 
a criminal case, can ever dispense with any of the strict rules of 
evidence. 

The Supreme Court is of opinion that no dispensation could 
be valid in the present instance. 

The authorities on this subject are not numerous^ probably 
because attempts to break the good order and the conscientious 
reverence for prisoner's rights which characterise the Criminal 
Courts of England and her Colonies, have been, and this Court 
trusts will always be, of very rare occurrence. 

The Supreme Court has been referred to two cases in Carring- 
ton and Payne's Eeports ; one of them (vol. 7 p. 495) is the case 
of Rex V. Foster. There were two prosecutions against the 
same prisoner for felony. It was proposed in the second case 
that, as the facts were precisely the same, the evidence given already 
in the first case should be taken by consent ; but Mr. Justice Patter- 
son refused to allow this, and is reported to have said, " I doubt 
whether that can be done, even by consent, in case of felony, though 
I know that it may in a case of misdemeanour." Now, as our law 
in Ceylon has no distinction between one kind of offence and 
another, such as the English law makes between felonies and minor 
offences, it is far better to keep on the safe and humane side, and 
to make the strictness which the English law requires in cases of 
felony, universal in all criminal cases whatsoever. 

The other case is in the 8th vol. of Carrington and Payne, p. 
675, Segina v. Thornhill. There Lord Ahinger refused to recognize 
admissions that have been made by arrangement between the 
attornies before the trial, but he is reported to have made his 
refusal in these words : " I cannot allow any admission to be made 
on the part of the defendant, unless it is made at the trial by the 
defendant or his counsel." 

The Supreme Court may observe in this case that in point of 
fact no admission was received, and secondly that it was a case of 
misdemeanour which makes our remark on the preceding case of 
Rex V. Foster applicable. ' 

The Supreme Court has indeed found a passage in the writings 
of one of the highest authorities on the laws of this Island, which 
forcibly implies that such a reception of depositions, as has been 
practiced here, is contrary to law. In Sir Charles Marshall's Eeports 
there is a very careful and clear chapter on evidence, and he tells 



74 

1860. us (p 107) that it was composed with special reference to the state 

Nov. 5 of things in Ceylon. At p. 147 Sir Charles says that " former 

— depositions may also he received by consent of all parties in civil ' 

cases." The word " civil " is printed in italics ; and it shews that 

our late eminent Chief Justice considered that consent in criminal 

cases would be sufficient. 

The Su-preme Court ha,s said that it abstains, on the present 
occasion, from giving a general decision that none of the rules of 
evidence can ever be dispensed with in criminal cases by consent. 
But it is quite certain that Judges and Magistrates are never bound 
to sanction such arrangements, and the Supreme Court has no 
hesitation in recommending most strongly that those who preside 
in our minor criminal courts should never allow such waivers, but 
that all criminal charges whatever should be regularly proved before 
any man is convicted, whether he offers to consent to irregularities 
or not. 

Even in civil cases, where much is often done or left undone 
by consent, it is always in the discretion of the Judge, and in his 
power, to reject illegal evidence, though both parties agree to ad- 
mit it. In the words of Chief Baron Pollock, in the recent case of 
Barhat v. Allen, 21 L. J. Ex. 159, " a Judge is bound to admin- 
ister the whole law of England, the law of evidence included, and 
although a, practice has crept in of allowing objections to evidence 
to be waived, it is always a question with the presiding judge 
whether he will permit that, and he would always be justified in 
calling on the parties to adhere to the law." This duly of admin- 
istering the whole law is emphatically more binding in criminal 
cases ; and he, the Chief Justice, states, that in a practice of more 
than twenty years at the sessions and on the crown side on circuit 
in England, he never knew an instance, in a criminal trial, of 
proper legal proof being dispensed with by consent. He has more 
than once heard the counsel for prisoners offer to admit parts of 
the prosecutor's case, but the answer from the Bench, given too by 
Judges of the highest eminence, invariably has been, " I cannot try 
criminal cases on admissions, the facts must be regularly proved." 

The present case must be remanded to the Police Court for 
evidence to he regularly, taken and for judgment thereon to be 
giren. 

The Supreme Court thinks it right to add an expression of its 
belief that the Police Magistrate, who received these depositions 
against this defendant, did so in no spirit of unfairness, but out of 
a desire to expedite the administration of Justice, — a desire laudable 
in itself, and which this court should like to see more generally 
prevalent in this Colony; but it must not be allowed to prevail at 
the cost, or at the risk of impairing the great principles of our 
criminal jurisprudence. 



75 



C. 11. Point Pedro } . l i^r o- .. I860. 

No. 41. f ^y«"*«'' ^"9^'' V- Stnatty j^^^ 5 



The judgment of the court below was affirmed in these terms: — Eight of 

In this case the plaintiff obtained a judgment in the Court criptive Ordi- 
below against the defendant for disturbance of a right of way over nance, No. 8 
defendant's land, which the plaintiff claimed, as owner and occupier °^ 1^34, cl, 2 
of adjoining land. [Ord. ^22 of 

The plaintiff proved clearly that he and those who had held _ '^possession 
his (the plaintiff's) land before him, had exercised this right of way of lands or 
over the defendant's land for more than twenty years before the immovable 
disturbance complained of ; but there was not sufficient proof that ^'^"•^^f*^ "~ 
the right of way had been exercised for thirty-three and a third of ,-^.jj ^uasi 
a year, the period requisite, according -to the old Dutch Law, for possession— 
the acquisition of a prescriptive right of way (see Voets Commen- "ser. 
tary on the Pandects, vol. I, p. 409, and Van Leeuwen's Com- Possession 
mentaries p. 190.) "for ten years 

It further appeared that for the greater part of the year 1857 previoiie to 
and 1858, the plaintiff _had not used the way, as the defendant had of^otion^— 
obstructed the road in question by placing a fence across it. construction. 

Afterwards the fence was removed and the plaintiff again 
exercised the right of way until the defendant again set up the 
fence. It was in respect of this last obstruction that the action 
was brought. 

The Supreme Court thinks that the decision in favor of the 
plaintiff was right : though he failed to prove a right of way under 
the old Dutch Law, he succeeded in proving one under the 
Ordinance for the Prescription of Actions, No, 8 of 1834. 

The second clause of that Ordinance is as follows: — 

" And it is further enacted that from and after the first 
day of July next, proof of the undisturbed and uninterrupted 
possession by a .defendant in any action or by those under whom 
he claims of lands or immoveable property, by a title adverse to or 
independent of that of the claimant or plaintiff in such action (that 
is to say, a possession unaccompanied by payment of rent or produce, 
or performance of service or duty or by any other act by the 
possession from which an acknowledgment of a right existing in 
another person would fairly and naturally be inferred) for ten 
years previous to the bringing of such action shall entitle the de- 
fendant to a decree in his favor with costs. And in like manner, 
when any plaintiff shall bring his action or any third party shall 
intervene in any action for the purpose of being quieted in his 
possession of lands or other immoveable property, to prevent en- 
croachment or usurpation thereof, or to recover damages for such 
encroachment or to establish his claim in any other manner to such 



76 

1860. land or other property, proof of such undisturbed and uninterrupted 
Nov. 5 possession as hereinbefore explained by such plaintiff or intervenient, 
or by those under whom he claims, shall entitle such plaintiff or 
intervenient to a decree in his favor with costs. Provided always 
that the said term of prescription of ten years shall only begin to 
run against parties claiming estates in remainder or reversion from 
the time when the parties so claiming acquired a right of possession 
to the land in dispute." 

Two questions arise as to the effect and meaning of this 
Ordinance in this case. 

The first question was this. Is enjoyment of a right of way 
included in the words " possession of lands or immoveable 
property?" 

L judgment of this Court (No. 22,606 D. C. Colombo) was re- 
ferred to, in which it was held that the plaintiffs, under the cirum- 
stances of that case, were entitled to a right of way by prescription 
of a lost grant : but the Chief Justice in giving that judgment stated 
that the language of the Prescription Ordinance was not sufficiently 
precise to warrant the Court in holding that it applied to a servitude 
or incorporeal heriditament of that description. 

From respect of the late learned Chief Justice who delivered 
that judgment, and also from a wish to maintain certainty and 
■uniformity in the administration of justice, the Supreme Court 
attaches great weight to that decision ; but this Court nevertheless 
does not feel itself consluded by it on the present occasion. 

The opinion expressed there as to the Ordinance was not 
essential to the decision then given in favor of the plaintiff. 

The plaintiff maintained his judgment on another ground. 

Moreover there is a conflicting decision of this Court, not 
indeed on this Ordinance, but on a Proclamation, so closely analo- 
gous as to make a decision on it operate as a high authority in 
determining what the words of the Ordinance fairly mean. 

The Supreme Court speaks of a decision of this Court, No. 
493 Kandy, 19iA Nov. 1833, which is cited with approbation by 
Sir Charles Marshall in the 526th. page of his well-known Reports. 
The Supreme Court need hardly say how much additional value 
is given by such approval. The Supreme Court there held that 
the Proclamation of 8th September 1819 (establishing the periods 
of Presciption for the Kandyan Province) applied to claims for 
service due in resiDect of lands, though the material clause of the 
Ordinance uses the word " lands." 

This decision in the Kandyan case was not brought to the 
notice, of my predecessor when the Colombo case was decided. 

Altogether the Supreme Court feels itself at liberty to exercise 
its own judgment on this question, and this Court agrees in 
considering, that the words " possession of lands or immoveable 



77 

■property," as used in the Ordinance of 1834, are ample enough to 1860. 
apply to the enjoyment of right of way. Nov. 5. 

A right of way (or more correctly, ' speaking a liberty to a right — 

of way) is a proedial servitude, and Voet is decisive as to this 
being immoveable property. His words (Com. ad P and. 1. 8. 20, J 
" Servitutes praediales quod spectat, non dubium quin i-erum 
immobilium numero veniant." 3ee also Vanderlinde7i's Institutes, bk, 
l,ch. a and Story on the. Conflict of Laws, pp. 308 and 5 79, Brown's 
Civil Law and Notes. 

The only difficulty as to this question arises out of the exclu- 
sive employment in the Ordinance of the word " possession " in 
connexion with the words " lands or immoveable property." Strict- 
ly speaking, a man cannot be said to be possessed of a servitude. 
Servituti vera possessio non est, see Voet on the Pandects, p. 
422. The Eoman Jurists, when writing especially on the subject 
of possession, drew the distinction between the exercise of property 
over corporeal things, and the user of such an easement as a right 
of way thereon. 

They invented the .phrase "juris quasi possessio,'' when speak- 
ing of servitudes. 

This is fully explained in the well known treatise on Possession 
by the great German Jurist Savigny (page 131 of Sir Erskine 
Perry's translation), and it is most lucidly set forth by Mr. George 
Long (formerly Professor in University College, London, and Eea- 
der in Civil Law to the Inns of Court) in the article on Possession 
written by him, in Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman 
Antiquities. Mr. Long there says, " though things incorporeal are 
"not strictly objects of possession, yet ihsie is a, jurii quasi pos~ 
" sessio of them, as for instance in the case of servitudes (easements.) 
" The exercise of a right of this kind is analogous to the possession 
" of a corporeal thing, in other words, as real possession consists in 
" the exercise of ownership, so this kind of possession, which is 
" fashioned from analogy to the other, consists in the exercise of 
"jus in re or of one of the component parts of ownership. In the 
" case of possession, it is the thing (corpus) which is possessed, 
" and not the property; by analogy then, we should not say that the 
" servitus or the jus in re is possessed, but as in the case oijus in re 
" there is nothing to which the notion of possession can be attached, 
" while in the case of ownership there is the thing to which we 
" apply the notion of possession. We are compelled to resort to 
" the expression ywm quasi possessio, hj which nothing more is 
" meant than the exercise of a jus in re, which exercise has the 
" same relation to the jus in re that proper possession has to 
" ownership." 

It is to be observed that this phrase juris quasi possessio, has 
not acquired currency and has not been rendered into moderiii 



78 

1860 languages, and even in tte Roman Writers themselves, this distinc- 
Nov. 5. tive phraseology was not always preserved. 

The words " possidere," " possessio," "possessor" may be 
frequently found in their writings as applicable to servitudes, as 
Savigny has shewn in his treatise on Possession (p. 131 of Sir 
Erskine Perry's translation.) So modern Jurists, including Savigny 
himself, though at times they point out the distinction between the 
true "possession" of corporeal property and the " ^wn's g'ttasi pos- 
sessio " of rights like easements over it, employed in general the 
words " possession " and possess," or their equivalents in the 
various modem tongues as generally applicable to. all such things. 
Brown's Civil Law, Van Leeuwen's Commentaries and many other 
books on Jurisprudence will be found to contain abundant proof of 
this. 

Altogether the Supreme Court has no doubt that the words 
" possession of immoveable property " in the Ordinance may apply 
to enjoyment of a right of way. There must be actual 
enjoyment, not mere claim of title or abstract right, and the 
Supreme Court may define " possession," when applied in legal 
language to a servitude, such as the^M* itineris, to be the exercise 
of a jus in re, with the animus of using it as your own as of right, 
not by mere force, not by stealth, and not as a matter of favour, 
nee vi, nee clam, nee precario. 

The Supreme Court might also draw no slight argument in 
favor of holding that the words of the Ordinance extend to servi- 
tudes, from the fact that, if the Ordinance were to be construed other- 
wise, a solemn legislative enactment, which was designed and 
which professes in its preamble to give a comprehensive system of 
rules of limitation for all actions, would fail to include rights of 
way, many rights to water, rights to light and the numerous other 
easements which exist, and many of which are of such frequent 
and such great importance. 

It was further objected to the plaintiff's right to maintain this 
action, that his user of the right of way had been interrupted for 
the great part of 1857 and 1858, and that consequently he had not 
had the undisturbed and uninterrupted possession for ten years, 
previous to the bringing of the action which the Ordinance 
requires. 

The learned counsel for the defendant wished the Supreme 
Court to read the words " previous to the bringing of the 
action" as meaning next before the bringing of the action. 

The Supreme Court thinks that such an interpretation would 
be erroneous. 

The English Statute of Limitations as to right of way and 
other easements (which was passed in 1832 and which was doubt- 
less present to the framers of our Ordinance in 1834), kas an 



79 

express clause, enacting, that tlie periods of limitation mentioned 1860. 
in it stall be the periods next hefore some suit, wherein the claim Nov. 5 
shall have been brought in question, and it further expressly enacts j 

that no act shall be deemed an interruption unless acquiesced in 
for a year. 

There is nothing of the kind in our Ordinance. 

The Supreme Court thinks the omission was intentional ; and 
looking to the mass of difficult litigation, and perplexing 
opinions, which have- grown up in the English Courts in respect of 
that Statute of Prescriptions, the Supreme Court should be disposed 
to think the omission salutary. 

The consequence of the Supreme Court introducing the word 
" next " into onr Ordinance, as this Court was asked to do, would 
be very serious. Clearly this Court could not take it upon itself 
to introduce, by implication, a whole clause as to sufficiency of 
interruption. 

The result would be, that not only men who were disturbed 
in the use of easements, but men who were turned out of lands and 
houses, would lose all the benefit of prescriptive title, unless they 
run of£ to the Court house, and instituted a suit on the very day 
on which the wrongful act was committed. Nothing is more 
common in the plaints for ejectment, which we daily read, where 
the plaintiff claims by prescription, than an allegation that the 
ouster occurred one or two, or more years (short of ten) ago.' 
Every one of these plaints must be held bad on the face of them 
if the Ordinance is to be construed as the present defendant desires. 

The Supreme Court should pause long before it so 
revolutionized the administration of justice in one of its most 
important branches, even if there was anything in the language of 
the Ordinance which seemed to favor it. But the- Ordinance is not 
so worded ; and the Supreme Court has doubly cause not to invent 
law to make mischief. 

The fact of the present case seems, that at the beginning of 
1857, the plaintiff had acquired a prescriptive right of way over 
the defendant's land by iminterrupted user for ten years. Nothing 
has happened since the beginning of 1857 that could deprive him 
of it. 

A right of way undoubtedly may be lost by non-user ; but 
then the non-user must have continued for ten years, the same 
length of time during which user may create a right. It would 
perhaps, on considering the words of our Ordinance, be more 
accurate to say, not that the owner of the dominant tenement loses 
his right over the servient tenement by ten years non-user, but 
that the servient tenement acquires liberty, and its owner gains 
full exclusive property in it by the lapse of ten years without 
the servitude being exercised, and without any act being done^ 



80 

1860. from -ivhicli an acknowledgment o£ liability to such servitude 
Nov. 5 would be naturally inferred. Neither is there anything in the 
facts of this case from which a renunciation, or cesser of the right 
of way, can be inferred. 

Our law very wisely and equitably directs, that, where a man, 
who has a right of way over his neighbour's ground, stands by, and 
without interruption or remonstrance sees his neighbour build upon 
the ground, over which the right of way exists, he cannot after- 
wards make his neighbour pull the new house down and restore 
the old road (see Van Leemven's Com. 204, Voet Com. ad. Pand. 
418). But the fence which the defendant put up in 1857 and 1858 
was clearly not a building of any such description; and as the plain- 
tiff is suing for what has been done during the last two years only, 
the ninth clause of the Ordinance is no bar to his recovering 
damages. 

The judgment for the plaintiff is affirmed. 



isr' XI 78 I Cander -v. S angary et al. 

Intervention. Per Curiam : — That the decree of the 10th, day of May 

1860 be. set aside as respects that part of the judgment which dis- 
misses the Interventions. 

With every inclination to support the District Court in its 
anxiety to put an end to the dilatory proceedings so common in 
Jaffna, the Supreme Court is still unable to affirm the present 
nonsuit. The Order of the Court of the 2nd May 1860 allowing 
the first set of Intervenients a survey of the land, for the purpose 
of the trial, and the course pursued, when the first Intervention 
was filed, of allowing the original parties to plead to the same, 
might reasonably have led the plaintiff to believe, that as the 
, survey had not been completed and there was no pleading on the 
second Intervention, the case would not be taken up on the day 
for which it was originally fixed. Assuming such to have been 
the case, it would be obviously unfair to affirm this judgment and 
to expose the plaintiff to the expense and delay of another suit. 

The Supreme Court observes with regret the dilatory proceed- 
ings sanctioned in this case. The action was commenced in 
August 1855, and had repeatedly come on for trial when on the 
29th December 1858 an intervention was filed. The general rule 
is that an Intervenient should take up a case in the stage in which 
he enters it, and there was nothing in the particular claim of the 
Intervenient, in the present instance, to justify an exceptional 
course of proceeding. But both plaintiff and defendant had to 
plead to this Intervention, and when they failed to do so, were 



81 

proceeded against by rules nisi for judgment. All this led to 1860. 
further delays ; but to add to them, a second Intervenient was Nov. 5 
shortly before the trial admitted, and summons ordered to the 
original parties. 

An Intervenient should never be allowed, as a matter of 
course, to intervene in a case. He should summarily show his 
interests in the cause, before he is allowed to intervene. Had this 
rule been observed in this case, the second intervention would not 
have been allowed ; for he shews no such interest as would justify 
his interference. As a general rule too, an Intervenient should 
never be allowed to delay a case ; — if he choose to intervene, he 
must take it up in the stage in which he finds it Lengthy pleadings 
on interventions should never be allowed. 

The law and practice on the subject of Interventions are 
admirably summed in Mr. Lorenz's Notes on Civil Practice, p. BO- 
SS. 



21 th November. 
Present: — Creasy C. J., Sterling, J. and Temple J. 

IST ' 9fi7qf) ° f Thompson et al v. Nannytamby 

This was an action for the recovery of £1000 and interest, Promissory 
alleged to be due on a promissory note made by the defendant in note— illegal 

COUSlCLSl'Si 

favour of the plaintiff's. tion— 

The main grounds of defence were : — Insolvency— 

_ . agreement 

I. That the consideration for which the note was given had to annul in- 
failed, in as much as the arrangement agreed upon, viz, the annull- solvency pro- 
ing of one Ponambelam's insolvency had not been carried out, and ceedmgs.and 

II. That the note was void under the insolvency laws, it opposing 
having been given with intent to persuade plaintiffs, first, to forbear certificate, 
examining the insolvent, and second, to forbear opposing his certifi- 
cate. 

The District Judge found that the motive which actuated 
defendant in voluntarily taking upon himself his share of the 
liabilities (viz payment of 10/ in the £) imposed by the arrange- 
ment, was the desire to extricate his relative from his difficulties, 
by stipulating for the annulment of the insolvency proceedings 
against him ; and that the plaintiffs did not succeed in effectually 
annulling such proceedings. 

On the second point, the Judge held as follows : — 
" It was objected that the note was given to forbear the insol- 
vent's examination, if not, to forbear opposing his certificate. 



82 

IggO "The 128tli section of the Ordinance enacts that 'any contract 

Nov. 5 ' or security made or given by any, insolvent or other person * • for 

— ' securing the payment of any money due by such insolvent at his 

' insolvericy, as a consideration or vrith intent to persuade such 

' creditor to forbear opposing, or to consent to the allowance of the 

' insolvent's, certificate, shall be void.' 

"It was contended by the learned counsel for the plaintiffs, not 
only that the note was not given for either of the purposes alleged, 
btit further that the Ordinance only applied to forbearance to 
oppose an insolvent's certificate, and not to forbearance of ex- 
amination. And in support of this position, he strongly relied 
upon the case oi. Taylor v. Wilson, 5 Exch, Eep, 251. 

" On the other side, the case of Nerot and Wallace, 3 Term Eep. 
17, was cited as establishing the proposition that 'forbearing examina- 
tion ' equally fell within the prohibition of the Insolvency Laws. 

" The case of Taylor v. Wilson seems to me to decide no more to 
than what the Chief Baron carefully limited himself to. ' Possibly,' 
says that Judge, ' the question as to the nature of the arrangement 
' might have been left to the Jury ; but we find that the point reserv- 
' ed was to enter a verdict for the defendant, if the fact of the bill 
' having been given to forbear opposition to the last examination was 
' within the act of Parliament. "We are of opinion that it is not.' It 
should also be remarked that the plaintiff was the indorsee of the 
bill, and in the statement of the case the reporter expressly notices, 
'there was no evidence that the plaintiff was not an innocent 
indorsee.' 

" And as in Birch v. Jervis, 3 C. & P. 379, I find it was held by 
Lord Tenterden under 6 Geo. 4 c. 16 s.l25, ' that a bill given to 
' a creditor to induce him to sign a bankrupt's certificate, is void, 
' in whosoever hands it may be, but a bill given to a creditor to 
' keep him from taking steps to oppose the certificate would be good 
' in the hands of a holder for value without notice. The section 
of the above statute, it will be observed, is not quite similar to the 
corresponding clause in the present Act, the words in the former 
being ' to consent to or sign such certificate.' 

" The case however oiNerotv. Wallace is peculiarly applicable, 
and it was there determined (the Act- Geo- 2 chap 30, containing 
a section No. 11, in substance similar to our 128th clause) that 
' a promise made by a friend of a bankrupt that, in consideration 
' that the assignees and commissioners would forbear to examine 
' him, he would pay a certain sum, is void, as being against the 
' policy of the bankrupt laws. 

" ' The examination of the bankrupt- on oath is a security 
' which the legislature has given for the benefit of the creditors, 
' and therefore even if the commissioners had joined in the agree- 
' ment, that would not have bound the creditors. 



83 

"And again, ' even if such consent of the creditors had appear 1860. 
' ed, they could not have stopped the examination of the bankrupt, ^°^- ^ 
' because the public as well as the creditors have.a right to know 
' how the bankrupt has disposed of his property. The creditors 
' are only interested as far as respects the payment of their debts, 
' but the public are interested in knowing whether the bankrupt 
' ought to be restored to his former credit by obtaining his certifi- 
' cate. It has been contended that the creditors are not injured 
' by the agreement ; but it is a detriment to the public, which is a 
* matter of great importance.' 

" On these grounds, I am further of opinion that the defendant 
is entitled to judgment on the second point, the agreement and note 
being void, as contrary to the policy of the insolvent laws." 

On appeal, Bust appeared for appellants and Dias for 
defendant respondent. 

The -following is the judgment of the Supreme Court: — 

This ia an action by the payees against the maker of a promis- 
sory note, for one thousand pounds ( £1000 ) payable at twelve 
months, which bears date on the 30 July 1858. 

The plaintiffs in this case were assignees of one Po- 
nambalam, who was adjudicated an insolvent, according to the 
Ordinance) on the 31st March 1858. He did not dispute the va- 
lidity of adjudication. A great number of creditors proved their 
debts, assignees were chosen, and a day for the insolvent's exami- 
nation regularly appointed. The assignees had reason to believe, 
and did believe, that Ponambalam had fraudulently disposed of much 
of his property. They intended to examine him as to this ; and 
for the purpose of making the investigation more efEective, they had 
caused several members of his famUy to be summoned for the pur- 
pose of being examined before the Insolvent Court. Thus far the 
assignees had acted in the strict line of official duty, and accord- 
ing to the true spiirit, and policy of the Insolvency laws, which 
require the assignees to be prompt and vigorous in securing and 
recovering all the available estate of the insolvent, and in causing 
the assets to be expeditiously and equitably distributed among all 
the creditors that have proved. 

The intention of the assignees to examine the insolvent, and 
the members of his family as to his disposal of his property was 
well known, and caused the greatest alarm to the insolvent and 
his friends. That alarm must have been evident to the assignees, 
and ought to have made them still more vigilant and determined in 
the performance of their duty. But when the examination was 
coming on, the defendant and other friends of the insolvent made 
an arrangement with the assignees, by which the examination 
was stopped ; and part of which arrangement was the giving, by the 



u 

1860. defendant to the aisignees, of this promissory note. The defen- 
JNov. 6. dant now resists payment on the grounds, first, that the note was 
given for an illegal consideration ; secondly, that it was given for a 
consideration that has failed. If he sustain either of these defen- 
ces, he is entitled to judgment. The District Court has found in 
his favor in both points, and as the Supreme Court is clearly of 
opinion, that this arrangement, in furtherance of which this note 
was given, was an illegal arrangement, and contrary to the true 
policy and spirit of the Insolvent laws, for reasons which will be 
presently set forth, that judgment for the defendant will be 
affirmed. 

The complicated facts, and contradictory evidence of this case,, 
are carefully sifted, and fully set forth in the judgment of the 
Court below; and the District Judge in the same judgment cites 
and comments on several leading cases on the subject, to which 
may be added the cases of Hall v. Dyson, 21 L. J. Q, B. 224 
and Staines v. Wainwright, 6 Bing. New Cases, 174. 

The Supreme Court need not in this judgment enter into the 
evidence further than to advert to some of the broad facts, which 
are either admitted on both sides, or which, though nominally 
disputed, are too clear to admit of any reasonable doubts. And 
the Supreme Court premises that, in trying to learn the true nature 
of the transaction, as part of which, the promissory note was given, 
the Supreme Court does not look so much to the formal agreement 
which was subsequently drawn up, as to the writings which passed 
at the time, and the parol evidence of what then took place between 
the parties. 

When the insolvent's friends succeeded in stopping the dread- 
ed examination, they offered a compensation of ten shillings in the 
pound. The note now sued on was one of the securities for the 
payment of that compensation. So far all the witnesses agree* 
In return for this ten shillings in the pound, there was to be a stop 
to the insolvency proceedings, and an attempt, at least, to annul , 
the adjudication, and all that had already taken place under.it. 
The Supreme Court uses the words " attempt at least," because 
there is a dispute between the witnesses whether the undertaking 
on the part of the assignees did or did not go further. The defen- 
dants say that the assignees undertook to procure a legal and effec- 
tual annulment of the insolvency ; and one of his defences to this 
action is that , they have either omitted or failed to do so. The 
plaintifEs contend that they only undertook to do all in their power 
towards annulling the insolvency ; and that they had done all in 
their power for that purpose. And it appears that on the 17th of 
August, after the note was giTien, a motion paper signed by the as- 
signees, the insolvent and many creditors, was laid before the 
insolvent Court on which the order, purporting to annul and su&- 



85 

pend tLe insolvency proceedings was obtained. That order has 3860. 
already been brought before the notice of the Supreme Court, in i^ov. 6 
another case, arising out of Ponnambalam's affairs ; and the Judges, 
who then sat here, called it an order " on the face of it contrary 
to the proceedings of the Insolvency Ordinance." The Supreme 
Court quite agrees with them ; but it is needless to discuss now 
the worth, or worthlessness, of that order, or whether it is all that 
the assignees undertook to procure For it is clear to the Sup- 
reme Court, that the plaintiffs on their own shewing, when they 
made the arrangement with the Insolvent's friends, violated their 
duty as assignees ; and that they cannot recover this note, which 
was one of the inducements to that misconduct. 

The Supreme Court does not base its judgments merely on 
the indisputable fact that one element of the arrangement between 
the parties ( and present to the minds of all parties,) was under- 
standing that the'examination which might have led to his under- 
going the inconvenience and the ignominy which the insolvent 
laws ordain for fraudulent debtors, might also have led to the re- 
covery by the assignees of property available for the benefit 
of the general body of creditors. The Supreme Coiirt would de- 
cide the case against the assignees were no facts against them 
clear, besides the undeniable fact, that the assignees and the in- 
solvent and his friends, knew perfectly well, when they made 
this arrangement, that it had not the sanctionof all the creditors. 
Every one of the parties in this arrangement was aware of this, 
and every one also knew that it was hopeless to try to annul the 
insolvency, in accordance with the 140th and 141st sections of the 
Ordinance, although the substance of proceedings under the Ordi- 
nance, was adopted in the motion paper for the Insolvency Court, 
which was drawn up before this note was given, but not used till 
some time afterwards. 

Here, then, the Supreme Court finds assignees who were ap- 
pointed, as all assignees are, to carry on the insolvency proceed- 
ings for the benefit of all the creditors, agreeing to stop at least, 
and to try at leagt, to annul those proceedings against the known 
wishes of some of their constituents and cestuis que trusts. Such 
conduct is legally indefensible, and no Court ought to up- 
hold a security whereby such conduct was procured. 

, In saying this, the Supreme Court does not mean to impute 
any moral guilt to the assignees. They may, probably, have 
tnought that in getting the ten shillings in the pound they were 
doing a good thing for the mass of the creditors, and that the ar- 
rangement would not be binding on such creditors as disliked it. 
Thus the Supreme Court finds the second plaintiff on his first ex- 
amination saying : " This agreement was entered into on the un- 
" derstanding that the insolvency of Ponambelam, should be quashed, 



86 

1860. " so far as regards the creditors who were parties to it," and Mr. 
Nov. 5 Martensz, the Proctor for the Assignees, says in this evidence that 
— " there was a general understanding that the agreement would be 

" binding on the parties who joined, but not on others." But it 
ought to have been remembered that the non-joining creditors 
must necessarily be prejudiced by the arrangement, though it 
might not be legally binding on them. The insolvency proceed- 
ings, under which they had proved, had taken away from 
them for a long time, at least, the opportunity of suing 
Ponambelam and trying to obtain payment of their debts fi-om him. 
They had each and all of them a perfect right to exercise an in- 
dependent judgment, whether ten shillings in the pound was a 
sufficient composition, or whether any composition at all ought to 
be accepted in such a case. The minority could not be boimd by 
the opinion of the majority, unless in a meeting convened accord- 
ing to the 140th section of the Ordinance, which requires that the 
bankrupt should first have been examined, so that the whole truth 
of the case should have been made known, which requires long 
notice, ample time for consideration, and a majority of not leas 
than nine-tenths. It would have been mere mockery to tell the 
non-joining creditors to go on with the insolvency proceedings, 
after the assignees had abandoned them ; nor could they have been 
fairly called on to take on themselves the trouble and expenses 
of an application to this Court to set aside the superseding order 
of the Insolvent Court, or of application to the Insolvent 
Court to appoint fresh assignees or make the old ones 
do their duty. In any event Ponambelam had gained time 
for more effectually concealing the fraudulent transfers of property 
of which he had evidently been guilty, and for making it difficult 
or imposible to trace and recover that property. The whole 
arrangement was an attempt to evade the letter of the law, and to 
defy the spirit of the law, and the law refuses to uphold it. 

The Supreme Court gives no opinion, here, whether even with 
the consent of all the creditors, an Insolvency can be suspended 
after adjudication, in any other way than by proceeding accord- 
in to the 140th section. The Supreme Court is quite clear that, ' 
without such unanimous consent, a private arrangement to annul 
the insolvency is invalid and illegal, and has no hesitation, in this 
case, in affirming the judgment against the assignees. 



1861. 

19th June. 

Present : — Ckeast, C. J., Temple, J., and Thomson, J. 

C. E. Chavakaclicheri, 1 „ , , ^ ■, a-i i , ■, 

■KT Qj,, 'V Valayudan et al v. Staemberam et al. 

The judgment of the Court was as follows: — 

This was an action brought by the plaintiffs to recover pos- Intervention, 
session of certain land. The defendants in their answer said they 
had no claim upon the land and also denied occupation. The pre- 
sent appellants, at the same sitting at which the defendant's answer 
was taken, intervened, and in their petition of intervention they 
claimed the land through their mother, under an ancient transfer 
deed and also by prescription. At a subsequent sitting of the 
Court, they filed this deed and a list of their witnesses. The case 
was several tirnes fixed for trial but adjourned for various causes, 
but never through any default of the intervenients, who appear to 
have been ready with their witnesses upon every occasion. At 
last comes the following entry by the" commissioner of the pro- 
ceedings of the 6th March: — "Defendants absent, plaintiffs say 
" they waive objection and costs. As defendants say they have no 
" claim and are absent to-day, intervenient is therefore withdrawn 
" from this case, since the case between original parties is at an end. 
" Judgment for plaintiff to be quieted in possession. This judgment 
" not to affect intervenients, who can bring a case of their own." 

As the intervenients did not withdraw voluntarily, they ap- 
peal against the judgment and insist on their right to contest the 
plaintiff's claim and to have their title considered in the present 
case. 

The Supreme Court is of opinion that this appeal is well 
' founded and the judgment of the Court below in favour of the 
plaintiff is accordingly set aside. " The principle of the law of 
" intervention is, that if any third person considers that his interest 
" will be affected by a cause which is depending, he is not bound to 
" leave the case of his interest to either of the litigants, but has 
" a right to intervene or be made a party to the cause, and take on 
" himself the defence of his own right, provided he does not disturb 
" the order of the proceedings." This enunciation of the principle of 
intervention is part of the judgment in the well known case of 



18C1. tte President and Members of the Orphan Board v. VanSeemen 
August, G ofid another, (1 Knapp's Privy Council Reports p. 91.) 

It would be idle to allow an intervenient to come in to defend 
his own rights, and then to sufEer him to be put out of Court by 
the renunciations and disclaimers ( possibly collusive ) of the ori- 
ginal parties. There is indeed express authority that this ought 
not be done. See the Libri Practicanim Observationum Andrea 
Gaili, p 125, " Renuncio Principalis non nocet Intervenienti." 

We may also usefully refer here to a former decision of this 
Court, cited in Morgan's Dig. p. 59. The Supreme Court there 
rightly states a main reason why the ample power of intervention is 
allowed by the Civil Law. It is done " in order to avoid multi- 
plicity of suits." But the course which the Court of Requests in this 
case has taken by directing the plaintiff to be put in possession of 
the disputed property, and telling the intervenients that they may 
begin another action, is a plain multiplication of suits and it, places 
all the intervenients at manifest disadvantage. The judgment is 
set aside. 



Mohameclan 
Law — cus- 
tody of 
children. 



6th August. 

Present : — Temple, J. 

In re Aysa Natchia and others. 

The Fiscal for the "Western Province returns the writ of 
Habeas Corpus, issued in the above case, as served. ; 

Mr. Advocate Lorenz appears for Ahamado Lebbe and Um- 
ma Natchia, and contends that according to the Mohamedan Law 
( Hedaya B. 4. C. 13.), the maternal grand mother is entitled to 
the care of the children in preference to their father, and quotes 
a decision of the Supreme Court dated 14th June, 1843. 

The Supreme Court declines to interfere on behalf of Aysa 
Natchia. 



Frivolous or- 

vexatious 

arrest — Ordi 

uauce No. 15 



SOth August. 
Present : — Temple J. and Thomson J. 



P. C. Kaigalle, } 
No. 6546. j 



Kolende Markar v. Hendrich et al. 



The judgment of the Court was as follows : — 

This is a charge for frivolously or vexatiously arresting 
the prosecutor and detaining him in custody for three days, without 
sufficient cause, on the 29th, 30th and 31st of May, 1861, in 



89 

The clause enacts " that every peace officer, or officer of the 1861. 
" law and every private person frivolously or vexatiously arrest- Aug. 20. 
" ing any person, shall, over and above his liability to any action f , ^o 
" for false imprisonment or other liability, be guilty of an ofEence °20 rOrdi-' 
" and be subject on conviction thereof to such punishment by fine nance No. 11 
" or imprisonment with or without hard labour, as the Court before of 1868, cl. 
" which such conviction shall be Obtained shall think proper to ^^^J 
« award." 

The Court is of opinion that the judgment of the Court below 
ought to be reversed on two grounds: — 

(1). That the arrest was not in law a frivolous or vexatious 
arrest ; 

(2). That the defendants were acting ministerially only, and 
are not liable for the arrest. 

A frivolous or vexatious arrest can only be an arrest mali- 
cious in its nature, or without substantial ground of suspicion, 
or upon a charge plainly not an ofEence in law. In this case, a 
principal officer of Police received information that the complainant 
had purchased a bag of rice from a carter, into whose hand it had 
been given with other goods to convey to Kandy. It is said that 
the complainant acted in a straightforward manner and in open 
day, and that he gave a good price for the goods, also that the 
carter had a good reason for selling the rice. Much, however, of 
this was the result of subsequent enquiry. The Court is of opinion 
that the Inspector had, on the facts as related to him, a good 
ground of suspicion that the complainant had been guilty of receiv- 
ing stolen goods, and that not only was he entitled, but that it was 
his duty, to order the arrest of the complainant. The arrest was 
not, therefore, in the first instance vexatious and frivolous. The 
Inspector may be liable for not bringing the complainant before a 
magistrate, but that is not the charge in this case, nor is the 
Inspector himself charged in this case at all. 

In the second place, the defendants were acting under the 
the orders of the Inspector, orders which they had every reason to 
believe to be lawful, and as they are required by law to obey all 
orders of their superior that they do not know to be unlawful, they 
are not liable for such an arrest as this ordered by a superior 
officer. If the Police were guilty of any excess in effecting the 
arrest, that should be made the substance of a separate charge of 
assault. 

In the last place, the Police are protected in the execution of 
their duty by the 19th. cl. ofOrd. No. 17 of 1844, which enjoins to 
apprehend any person they may have reasonable cause to suspect 
having committed any crime ; in this respect, the Court is of opinion 
the Police did their duty. . 



90 

1861. Sith August. 

Aug. 27. 

_ Present : — Temple, J., and Thomson, J. 

No 59202^ °' ( -^^"'^^ Hamy v. Hendappoo. 

,. . , This case was remanded for a new trial in these terms : — 

Maintenance 

— illegiti- This is a complaint against the defendant for not supporting 

mat€ children }^^ three illegitimate children. On certain admissions of the 

marned complainant, the Court below has dismissed the case without hearing 

woman — ,^.. ',^, ... ,, ,. ,,° 

presumption "i®^ evidence. ihe admissions made by complainant are that she 

of legitimacy has a husband living at Mutwal, and that she has been living 

— evidence, separately from him for some time. On the face of these admissions, 

the Court below has decided that as the complainant's lawful husband 

is living within easy access, he is liable for the support of the 

complainant's children, as there has been no legal separation. 

This Court is of opinion that this judgiiient ought to be set 
aside. The doctrine enunciated by the Court below may be said 
to be the law, but it is not the whole law. The law in certain 
cases recognises a conclusive presumption iu favour of legitimacy 
Where the husband and wife have cohabited together, and no im- 
potency is proved, the issue is conclusively presumed to be 
legitimate, though the wife is shewn to have been at, the same time 
guilty of infidelity ; and even where the parents are living separate, 
a presumption of legitimacy arises so strong that it can only be 
rebutted either by proof of previous divorce, or by cogent and 
almost irresistible proof of non-access in a sexual sense. Nor is 
the fact that a woman is living in notorious adultery in itself 
sufficient to repel this presumption. By the very form of the pro- , 
ceedings in this case, it is clear that the Police Magistrate, after 
having viva voce examined the complainant, came to a judgment 
without further hearing the case. There is nothing to shew that 
the complainant was called upon to prove her case; even the very 
process by which the admissions were obtained is not entered upon 
the proceedings. 

This then is not a case in which the Court thinks that any 
affidavit of neglect of evidence is necessary to induce it to order a 
new trial ; the proceedings themselves shew that the complainant 
was not called upon for evidence. Until the complainant's evidence 
is heard, how can any Court say that she had not " cogent and 
irresistible proof of non-access to her husband." The judgment is 
therefore set aside, and a new trial ordered, with directions to the 
Court below to hear the complainant's case in full. At the same 
time the Court below is directed that all evidence of the parents as 
to whether they have or have not connexion must be rejected: not 
ouh- all direct questions respecting access, but all questions which- 



91 



have a tendency to prove or disprove tint fact, unless they are put 
with a view to some different point in the cause; although there 
appears to be no objection to this woman confessing her adulterous 
connexion after the fact of her husband's non-access has been already 
proved by independent evidence, and thus enable the Magistrate, 
in the event of her evidence being corroborated in some material 
particulars, to make the proper order. This exception to the general 
rule of exclusion enunciated above is founded on necessity. 



1861. 
Oct. 1. 



24th September. 
Persent: — Thomson, J.' 

N '51079 r Woutersz V. Andris, 

The conviction and sentence were set aside in these terms : — 

The accused was convicted of permitting arrack to be 
sold in his house without a license. It was proved that ar- 
rack was sold in the accused's house by his son in the absence of 
the father. The evidence carries the case no farther. This is not 
legal evidence of permission; for this Court or the Court below 
cannot say that the arrack miay not have seen sold without the 
wish, or even in fraud of the father. Some further evidence of the 
connection of the father with the sale is necessary to a legal con- 
viction. It would be a very dangerous doctrine to hold a man 
liable simply because an evil deed is done in his house by a rela- 
tive, although it may be a ground of suspicion. 



Sale of 
an-ack with- 
out license 
— evidence 
of permis- 
sion. 



1st. October. 
Present : — Ckeast, C. J., and Thomson, J. 
P. C. Chavakachcheri, 1 



No. 19860. 



Saravanamuttu v. Cartegasen et al. 



ment. 



This was an appeal preferred by the complainant' against an Granting of 
order of the court below directing the case to be struck off, postpone- 
as the complainant was not ready to go on with it and assigned no •""" 
reason for being unprepared. 

The Supreme Court dismissed the appeal, and observed inter 
alia as follows: — 

If Police Magistrates would shew more firmness in re- 
fusing applications for adjournment, except in very special instan- 



92 



1860. 
Oct. 8. 



ces and wben the interests of justice evidently require more time 
to be allowed, the business of their courts would not fall so heavi- 
ly in arrear as now is frequently the case, and the proceedings be- 
fore them would better deserve the title of summary, a title which, 
at present, we can harHly give the long lists of repeated postpone- 
ments, which we find so largely recorded in the books of Pohoe 
Courts, which it is one of our circuit duties to inspect. 



Practice — 
iudgment 
by default 
— power of 

Court to 
re-open — 

order not 
appealable. 



8th October. 
Present : — Creasy, C. J., and Thomson, J. 



C. R. Harrispattu } 
2545. J 



Alwis V. Yming. 



In this case the Supreme Court rejected the appeal in these 
terms : — 

In this appeal, the plaintiff complains of an order of the 
Commissioner whereby the defendant, against whom judgment by 
default has passed for a second time, has for the second time been 
let in to defend. 

It is urged by plaintiff that there is no power to re-open judg- 
ment by default a second time. We . do not agree in that view ; 
but certainly such an indulgence ought never to be granted on 
such an unsatisfactory affidavit as was used in the ■ present case. 
The defendant's Proctor says in it that he himself Was prevented 
by illness from attending the Court, and that it was impossible for 
him to warn his client. He does not shew why or how it was 
impossible to do so ; nor does he shew why he could not have ob- 
tained tho aid of some other Proctor to act for him, at least to the 
extent of requesting an adjournment. 

This suit was instituted on the 27th April 1860. It was 
prolonged till the 20th September by a string of adjournments, 
none of which appear to have been caused by any neglect or 
default of the plaintiff. On the 20th September the plaintiff 
obtained judgment by default for the first time. Defendant appli- 
ed on the 30th of November to open that judgment, and on the 
27th of February in this year the commissioner decided that the 
judgment should be opened, and the 9th of April was fixed for 
the hearing. Defendant on the 23rd March filed his answer, but 
on the 9th of April neither he nor his Proctor were present, and 
the plaintiff had judgment by default for the second time. On the 
29th of May the defendant's Proctor files an affidavit of excuse, 
and on the 27th of June the defendant furnishes a stamp for 



03 

notice to plaintlffi to sliew cause why jurlgment should not be re- 1861. 
opened. The Court appoints July the 24th for hearing this matter, Oct. 10. 
and on that day decides to re-open the judgment a second time, — 

examines the parties, and then further postpones the case for the 
plaintiff to get up his witnesses. 

It is not to be wondered at that the plaintiff should 
feel aggrieved at these fifteen months of the law's delay in a claim 
for £ 5. 10 0. But we are of opinion that we cannot entertain 
his present appeal against the order of July 24th. The Court of 
Eequests Ordinance gives an appeal " to any party who shall be 
dissatisfied with any final judgment or order having the effect of a 
final judgment " But the order of the Commissioner to re-open 
the judgment by default is not a final judgment, or an order having 
the effect of a final judgment, as against the plaintiff, who, when 
the case proceeds, may, for aught we know, be the successful party. 
It is true that the following Ordinance as to Rules of Practice 
speaks of appeals against any judgment or order of the Court of 
Eequests; but we must interpret these words of the principal Ordi- 
nance, expecially as the second Ordinance distinctly purports to 
provide " Rules of Practice for regulating the jurisdiction in the 
Courts of Requests," and it does not profess to do anything more. 

We do not, however, wish it to be understood that the pre- 
sent plaintiff, if the final judgment of the Court of Eequests should 
be against him with costs, will not have the power of appealing 
against that judgment and of bringing in that appeal before the 
effective notice of the Supreme Court any errors of law or in fact 
committed by the Commissioner in any part of the action (see the 
latter part of the 19th cl. of the Court of Requests Ordinance); and 
we wish at once to express our regi'et at observing such dilatory 
proceedings in Courts, which ought to be Courts of summary 
justice. 

If Commissioners would be more strict in refusing applications 
for adjournment and for re-opening cases, except on very strong and 
on very stringent conditions as to payment of the costs occasioned by 
delay, the burden of work on themselves would be much lighter, 
and justice would be administered in a manner much more satis- 
factory for the interests of honest suitors. 



10th October 
Present : — Creasy, C. J., Temple J., and Thomson, J. 

■NT ' ^(W7 I Sii^ho Appu V. Ookuwa. 

In the following judgment of the Supreme Court, which suf- Sale of land 
ficiently sets out the facts of the case, the judgment a[)pealed — warranty 



94 



1861. 
Oct. 29. 

of title — 
eviction — 
claim for 
value and 
compensa- 
tion for im- 
provement. 



against was modified by it being decreed that plaintifE do recover a 
further sum of £ 4 with costs of appeal: — 

In this case the plaintiff in 1857 purchased from the defen- 
dant a piece of land, the deed containing a warranty of title ; 
and having entered into possession, he built a house in the 
land. Subsequently the land was sold by the crown at a pub- 
lic sale to a third party, who is in possession. 

The plaintiff sues his vendor for the purchase money 
and the value of the house which he had built, and has ob- 
tained judgment with costs for the purchase money £ 2, but 
not for the value of the house. 

He appeals on the ground that he should also have judg- 
ment for the value of the house, in view of the Roman Dutch 
Law, that " he who has built on another's land, of which he was 
in possession bona fide, may on losing possession recover the use- 
ful expenses " ( see Grotius b. 2, c. 10, s. 8, p. 108.; and Vander 
Keessel b. 2, c. 10, s. 8, p. 67.) 

The Supreme Court considers that plaintiff ought to re- 
cover the value of the' house, it being only such an one, as, and not 
more expensive than, might fairly have been expected by the vendor 
to have been built on the land. 

Defendant's evidence proves the house to be worth four 
pounds. 



Husband 
and wife — 

liability of 
wife's share 
of common 
property on 

obligation 
of husband 
arising out 
of delict 
amounting 

to crime. 



S9th October. 
Present : — Creasy C. J., Temple, J., and Thomson, J. 

isr ' 9fi4-l4- f Corey y. Fernando, etal. 

The following judgment of Morgan, D. J., sets out the facts of 
the case: — 

" George Felsinger and three others were tried for theft in the 
Supreme Court and found guilty. The complainant subsequently 
brought a civil case. No. 26414, in this Court, and obtained judg- 
ment against Felsinger and the three others, jointly and severally, 
for £ 200 and costs. 

"Execution having been issued, three gardens with the buildings 
thereon, situate at Colpetty, were seized as the property of Felsin- 
ger, and advertised for sale. 

"His wife now moves for an order to exclude her half share of 
the properties, and to declare the same free from liability. 

"Having heard counsel, pro and con, and having duly consider- 
ed the authorities cited by them viz., Grotius' Introd. 1. 5. 22, 
Lorenz'a Van der Keessel, p. 24, Kodenburg, 308, Van Leeuwen's 



95 

Commentaries, 525, Lceiiivis' Decisions, 103, and A. Wesel de dam. inter 1861. 
conjug., 59, it appears to me that slie is entitled to such an order. Oct. 29. 
It is clearly laid down in these authorities that a wife's property is 
not liable for. the husband's delicts, but that her half should be re- 
served to her. Some writers ( Voet ad Pand. 23. 2. 56 ) draw a 
distinction between the higher and the lighter penalties. " But 
such an opinion," says Vander Keesel in his dictata ( Praelect ad 
Grotii Introdiic. lib. 1. pt. 5. § 22 ), " cannot in any manner be 
supported. I am quite of opinion with Eodenburg and others that 
whatever the husband has to pay ex delicto, whether the cause be a 
civil or a criminal one, should be paid wholly out of his half 
either of the common property or of the common profits, and that 
the wife is not bound to contribute any portion thereof. Motion 
allowed. Costs divided." 

On appeal preferred by the plaintiff, the Supreme Court de- 
livered its judgment as follows : — 

The facts of this case make it necessary for us to determine 
this question : — Is the wife's share of the common property of 
husband and wife liable, in a civil action against the husband, for 
the husband's obligation arising out of delict amounting to crime ? 

We are of opinion, for the reasons we are about to set forth, 
that the wife's share is not so liable, and we shall aiSrm the judg- 
ment of the District Court in her favour accordingly. 

The point is one of great practical importance, but no decision 
of our own Courts, or of the Dutch Courts, on it is to be found. 

The dicta of the text-books are, with one exception, not very 
clear, and it has been necessary to examine clearly the whole of the 
greater part of several treatises that have been cited, in order to 
judge what effect is to be given to particular expressions of 
the writers. 

The dispute between the parties was thus far narrowed down : 
It was admitted on all hands that the wife's share of the common 
property is liable for all contracts made by the husband. It was 
equally admitted on all hands that, when there is a criminal prose- 
cution against the husband and he is to be punished by the sentence 
of confiscation or fine, the wife's share is not liable to be seized 
under the criminal judgment against him. 

A distinction which some of the Dutch jurists had endeavour- 
ed to make between lighter and more atrocious crimes in this 
respect, but which had been repudiated by other and later au- 
thorities, was very properly not attempted to be set up here. 

The contention for the appellant (the judgment creditor) was 
that, although in a criminal prosecution against the husband the 
wife's share is not liable, it is always liable in a civil action against 
him, whether on obligation arising out of contract or on obligation 
arising out of delict of any kind. 



96 

n^^^90 The contention for the respondent was that the distinction as 

Uc^2J. to the liability or non-liability of the wife's share is created, not by 
the form of procedure against the husband, but by the nature of 
the act, that made the husband liable ; that the husband who ia 
perpetual guardian of the wife and sole manager of the joint pro- 
perty binds her share in the property by all his contracts, but that 
when he commits a delict, the consequent liability affects him and 
his share of the property only. 

We were referred to Grotius, Van Leeuwen, Wesel, Groene- 
wegen, Kodenburg, Loenius and Vanderkeesel. The general effect 
of the writings of Grotius, Van Leeuwen, Wesel, Groenewegen and 
Kodenburg may be stated thus : they all lay down on broad and 
unequivocal terms that the husband's contracts bind the wife's 
share of the property. They then cite cases and give reasons 
which establish the non-liabihty of the wife's share in respect of 
fines or confiscations imposed on the husband in criminal prosecu- 
tions against him, but they do not expressly deal with the precise 
point raised here : is the wife's share liable in a civil action, not a 
criminal prosecution, for delict amounting to crime ? 

Particular passages may be culled here and there from their 
writings which, if they stood alone as their maxims on the subject, 
might seem to determine it ; but when taken with reference to 
their contents, they cannot be thought thus decisive. But on the 
whole, the effect of their writings is to make us think that these 
jurists would not have held the wife's share liable in such a i,ase 
as the present. It is to be remembered that the wife's liability for 
the husband in any way and to any extent is exceptional to the 
Koman Law; and the Dutch jurists always regarded the Roman 
Law as giving general rule in cases where the local Dutch Law was 
silent or doubtful. We think that those writers took care to point 
out the liability of the wife for the husband's contracts as an es- 
tablished deviation from the Koman Law; that they there drew 
attention to the criminal cases, where it had been attempted in 
vain to involve the wife's share of the property in the consequences 
of a confiscation or penalty decreed against the husband ; but that if 
the present question, the liability of the wife's share- in an action 
for the husband's delict amounting to crime, had arisen, they would 
have followed the principle of the Roman Law, which is in favour of 
the wife, in a case where the local laws were not clearly to the con- 
trary. ('See Fa»Ze62(w««, I3t. 2, p. 525andGail, Pract. Obser., 494 j. 

A case indeed was cited to us on behalf of the respondent as 
deciding the non-liability of the wife for the husband's crime : it 
is in Loenius, p. 670 : but on examination of it, it does not seem to 
us to go beyond the criminal cases cited in Groenewegen and others. 
It appears to have been a prosecution of the husband for homicide, 



97 

in whicla the husband obtained a pardon to pay a sum of money to 1861. 
the relations of the slain man. Oct. 29. 

VanLeeuwen (Cenmra Forensis i. 1. 22J, in dealing with the ~ 

wife's liability, specifies cases of criminal prosecutions only, but he 
gives a reason for the wife's non-liability to the Treasury in a cri- 
minal prosecution, which would make her also not liable to a 
plaintifB in a civil action for the husband's crime. He says, ," the 
" wife and husband enter into no partnership in crime, and there- 
" fore neither party is bound by the misfortune of crime committed 
" by another." It is proper however to observe that other writers 
repudiate the idea of the wife's liability depending on any relation 
of partnership. But there is one explicit authority on the subject, 
and a very high one : Vanderkeesel, who is clearly in the wife's 
favour. He states the question broadly : '' "What is the law when 
" the husband has been condemned in a pecuniary penalty, either 
" criminal or civil, by means of a delict ?" (Si ex causa delicti in 
mulctam pecimiariam sive criminalem sive civilem fuerit condemnatus). 
He reasons the matter very fully and decides emphatically in the 
wife's favour ; Quicquid ex delicto solvit maritus, sive causa sit 
criminalis sive civilis, illud ex ejus semisse vel bonorum communium, 
vel communis lucri solvendum ess€ nee quicquam uxorem conferre 
tenui. 

On the whole, we think that the weight of Dutch authorities, 
the general controlling influence of Roman Law, and the reason of 
the thing, concur in bringing us to decide that the wife's share of 
the common property is not bound, in either civil or criminal pro- 
ceedings, by the husband's obligation arising out of delict amount- 
ing to crime. 

It will be observed that in giving judgment, we do not go to 
the full length of deciding that there is no kind of delict which, if 
committed by the husband, will create an obligation affecting the 
wife. Cases may arise where the husband, in the bona fide manage- 
ment of the ccrmmon property, may incur obligations ex delicto 
without any criminal or morally wrong conduct. The plaintiff in 
an action on such delict might urge arguments for his claim on the 
wife's share which would be inapplicable here. We express no 
opinion on such cases one way or the other ; but we have no doubt 
that on the proceedings now before us, our proper course is to decide 
in the wife's favour, and to affirm the order of the District Court. 

Affii-med, 



98 



18G1. 
Oct. 29. 

False or 
frivolous 
prosecution 
—[Ordin- 
ance No. 11 
of 1868, cl. 
106]— know- 
ledge of 
falsity — ■ 
mode of ad- 
judication 



P. C. Galle, 
No. 41172 



' > Rajapakse v. Angerisa et al. 



The facts of this case are sufficiently indicated in the follow- 
ing judgment of the Court : — 

In this case the complainant charged the defendant with steal- 
ing his fence sticks. He states before the magistrate that he made 
the charge on what had been told him ; and he produced two 
witnesses each of whom deposed to' having seen the defendant take 
the sticks, and the first of whom stated that he told the plaintiff of 
what he saw. These witnesses contradicted e?ch other on some 
material points, and the final entry in the note of proceedings is : 
" Case dismissed. Complaint is fined £1 for bringing- a false case." 

The complainant appeals against this fine, and we think his 
appeal must be allowed. The 12th cl. of Ordinance 11 of 1843 
gives power to a Police Court to fine a prosecutor, " wheBever it 
shall appear that any prosecution has been instituted therein on 
false, frivolous or vexatious grounds." But in order to justify 
under this section a fine for a false charge, it should appear not 
only that the charge, when investigated, proved to be erroneous, 
but that it was false to the prosecutor's knowledge at the time when 
be instituted the proceedings : there is no proof whatever here that 
such was the case. 

The present appellant may have been told by the witnesses 
that they had seen defendant steal the sticks ; he may have believed 
them, and he may have, in perfect honesty and without any malice, 
instituted the charge on the faith of their statements, though their 
evidence afterwards was unsatisfactory in the magistrate's judg- 
ment, with which in this respect we do not interfere. 

The Supreme Court wishes also Police Magistrates to bear in 
mind when they fine prosecutors, under the 12 section of Ordi- 
nance No. 11 of 1843, (and such fines are often well deserved and the 
infliction of them is often very salutary), there ought to be an 
express adjudication on the face of the proceedings, that the prose- 
cution was instituted on false, frivolous or vexatious grounds, as 
the case may be. 



P. C. Kaigalle, 



Arrack, Ordi' 
nance No. 
10 of 1844, 

cl. .'12 — inno- 
cent and 



No. 16940, 



ie,) 
■ i 



Fernando v. Fernando et al. 



The following judgment of the Court sets out the facts of 
the case : — 

The defendant in this case was charged under Ordinance No. 10 
of 1 844 with possessing 1^ gallons of arrack Avithout a license. 



unconscious 
poesesBion. 



99 

Tke defendant, in answer to the cl; irge, admitted that a bas- 1861. 
ket containing several bottles of arrack \'.as found in his dwelling Oct. 29. 
house, but asserted that the basket had been left there by a cart- 
man, who said that a person whom he named would call for it next 
day ; and defendant further asserted that he, defendant, was 
ignorant of its contents. 

There was some slight conflict of evidence, and ultimately the 
magistrate, as appears by the minute of proceedings, feeling a 
doubt as to the truth of the matter, gave the defendant the benefit 
of the doubt and acquitted him. 

We have no authority to review the magistrate's decision 
BO far as regards the facts ; but it is maintained before us in 
appeal, that even supposing the facts to have been as asserted by the 
defendant, he ought to have been convictpd ; and we are referred 
to the words of the Ordinance which enact that " the possession by 
" any person of any spirit distilled from the produce of the 
" cocoanut or other discription of palm or of the sugar cane shall be 
" unlawful," except under certain specified circumstances, none of 
which existed or were pretended to exist in the present case. 

Our attention was also properly drawn to the last part of the 
clause, which says that " any person possessing any such spirit 
" under any circumstances, not specified in some one or more of the 
" abovementioned exceptions, shall be guilty of an offence and 
"liable &c." 

It is argued before us that these strong words make the mere 
physical possession of the article enough for a conviction, though there 
may not be the mens rea, or even the mens conscia, in the possession. 

We think that it is not so, and that in applying the penal 
clause of this Ordinance, we must bear in mind the general maxim 
actus nonfacit reum, nisi mens sit rea, or as it is expressed by 
VanLeeuwen, p. 453, "' crime considered in general is all punishable 
" transgression of the law, wilfully andjrom an evil mind, which is 
" very narrrowly considered : so that where no public fraud or evil 
" intention is mixed with the deed, it cannot be punished as a crime." 

The words of the Ordinance are certainly very strong, but 
they are scarcely stronger than the words of the English Game 
laws, which enacted {inter alia) that no person should upon any 
pretence whatever have in his possession any partridges between the 
1st of February and 1st of September. But when a qualified per- 
son had in his possession, on the 9th February, partridges which 
had been killed and possessed by him before the 1st, he was held 
by the Court of King's Bench in Simpson v. Unwin, 3 B. & Ad. 134, 
not to be liable to the statutory penalty, because, though the case was 
within the literal meaning of the statute, it could not be considered 
to be within its purview without absurdity, and Patteson, J. gave his 
opinion that " the possession meant by the Act was an unlawful, 



lOtf 

1861. " not nn innocent possession.'' So in Warneford v. Kendall, 10 
Oct. 29. East 19, it was ruled that the possession of game by a servant 
employed to detect poachers, who took it up after it had been killed 
by strangers on the manor, in order to carry it to the lord, is not 
a " possession" within the penalty of the Game. Laws, 9 Anne, o. 25 a. 2 
and 5 Ann. c. 14. Lord Ellenborovgh there reasons on the absur- 
dity of a literal construction and says : "if this be an offence, no 
" case can be stated in which au unqualified person can innocently 
" come in contact with game." 

We certainly disclaim the almost unbounded latitude in 
construing penal statutes which courts in former times have 
assumed ; and we take as our general rule for the interpretation 
of all Ordinances that which has often been, laid down by the 
English Judges of late years, but which is most clearly stated by 
the present Lord Wensleydale, when Baron Parke in Perry v. 
Skinner, 2 M. and W. 471 : " The rule by which we are to be 
" guided is to look at the precise words and to construe them in 
"their ordinary sense, unless it would lead to any absurdity or 
" manifest injustice, and if it should, so to modify and vary them 
" as to avoid that which certainly would not have been the inten- 
" tion of the Legislature, "We must put a reasonable construction 
" on their words." 

But if we were to read this Ordinance in the literal sense 
contended for by the appellant, and hold that the mere physical 
possession of the contraband article is punishable, though there was 
neither the '' mens rea" nor " mens conscia," we must hold that the 
man is criminally punishable, who, as an act of kindness to a 
neighbour, takes into his temporary possession a parcel, the con- 
tents of which he does not know, but which when searched is found 
to contain arrack. Or if a spiteful person were, by any lie or trick, 
to cause another to take innocently into his possesion a large 
package of rice in which the ajrrack bottles were carefully concealed, 
and then were to get a. soarch warrant and have the arrack dis- 
covered on the defendant's premises, the Magistrate would, accord- 
ino- to the ajipellant's interpretation of the- Ordinance, be obliged to 
convict and fine the unlucky victim of such an artifice. 

As is pointed out ,by Dwarris on Statutes, p. 594 : " In the 
" construction of a statute, it is the office of an expositor to put 
" such a sense upon the words that no innocent person shall receive 
" any damage by a liberal construction." We accordingly construe 
the word " possession," in the first line of this clause of the Ordi- 
nance, as not including innocent and unconscious possession. 

We are anxious that our decision in this case should not be 
looked on as expressing an opinion that the finding prohibited 
quantities of arrack in a man's dwelling house is not of itself suffi- 
eient evidence for a conviction under this Ordinance. In the great 



UK 

majority of cases it is by itself suiKcier.t evidence and cogent evi- 18CI. 
dence ; for a man may, as a general rule, be fairly presumed to ^'-''-- -3. 
know what the things are which he has in his house in which he is 
living at the time, and stories about the contraband article having 
been left there by people whom he does not produce ought to be 
regarded with great caution and suspicion. 

But we consider the finding of the Magistrate here on the facts 
to amount to a finding that. the defendant's position was an un- 
conscious and an innocent posseswion. We have no authority to 
review his finding as to facts, and avc find that such a possession is 
not within the meaning of this Ordinance. 



Slst, October. 
Fresent : — Creasy, C. J., Temple, J., and Thomson, J. 

C- \ Katnapura, ) Samnahamij v. Silva. 

No. 105b. j -^ 

The judgment of the Court was as follows: — 

In this case, the plaintiff sues the defendant for ^ share of the Crops of 
crops of certain chenas which the plaintiff was prevented from Lgage— oid 
taking by a third party, and he claims £2.15.0 damages. ]Sfo. 7 of 1840, 

On examination, the plaintiff says "I took the rent of the cl. 2— "iu- 
"lands on lease for one year, for 5/6;" but comparing the plaint *^™^* ™ 
with the petition of appeal, it is clear that the plaintiff only bought ^^ ^psT* 
the i crops. This is also admitted in defendant's answer. There 
is nothing to show that the price was paid beforehand, so that the 
contract is wholly executory. 

On the trial, a nonsuit was moved for under the 2nd cl. of 
Ordinance No. 7 of 1840, as the lease under which the plaintiff claims 
should have been on a stamp and attested by a notary. The 
objection was held good. Plaintiff was nonsuited with costs. 

The plaintiff in effect excepts to this judgment on the ground 
that a growing crop is not an interest in land, the 2nd cl. of 
Ordinance No. 7 of 1840 requiring a notarial instrument. The 
question as to what is " an interest in land '" has not only been the 
subject of much judicial enquiry under the English Statute of 
Frauds,' but also of express decision in Ceylon. 

The 4th sec. of the Statute of Frauds (England), enacts: 
" that no action shall be brought upon any contract or sale of lands 
tenements or hereditaments o?' any interest of or concerning them, 
unless the agreement upon which such action be brought or some 
memorandum or note thereof shall be in writing and signed by the 
party to be charged therewith or some person thereunto by hira 



102 

1861 . lawfully autliorlzed." The Ordinance of Frauds and Perjuries sotne- 
Uct. 31. what differs from this in language and also in a principle which 
does not come into operation in this case. 

The 2nd sec. of Ordinance No. 7 of 1840 enacts " that no sale 
&c. of lands &o., and no promise, bargain contract or agreement for 
effecting any such object, or for establishing any security interest or 
incumbrance affecting land &c," shall be of any force or avail 
in law, unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the party 
making the same and in fact otherwise notarially executed. 

The question what is an interest in land is common to both 
enactments, and in determining the question, this Court has always 
made use of the English precedents. An interest in land is not 
created by any contract, unless the contract confers an exclusive 
right to the land for a time,,for the purpose of making a profit of the 
growing surface, (i.e. when the surface only is in question) ; then the 
contract would be one for the sale of an interest in land. 
Warwick v. Bruce, 2 Maule and Selwyn, p. 205. 

This has been the principle upon which all the cases respecting 
sales has been determined, and the English Courts have decided 
that in the first place the sale of a growing crop does not give any 
exclusive right to the land at any time, as even the right to go 
upon the land to gather the crop is only an easement which does 
not in any way pass any right to the land (per Holyrood, J. in Evans 
V. Roberts, 5 Barnewall and Cresswell, 887). 

Nor has the right to have the crop remain upon the ground to 
infer any interest in the land; and this point the English Courts 
have settled by analogy to the doctrine of emblements^ Lord 
Ellenborough says : in a contract for the sale of potatoes at so 
much per acre, " the potatoes are the subject matter of sale, and 
" whether at the time of the sale they are covered with earth in the field 
" or in a box, still itwas the sale of a mere chattel" {Warwick v. 
Bruce, ante). Again in the case of Sainsbvry v. Matthews, 4 
Meeson and Welsby, 347, Mr. Baron Parhe says that the sale of 
a growing crop " is a contract for the sale of goods and chattels at 
" a future day, the produce of certain land, and to be taken away 
"at a certain time. It gives no right to the land : if a tempest 
" destroyed the crop and there were no crops to deliver, the loss 
" would clearly fall upon the owner and seller of the crop; " or in 
other words, the owner of the land is the owner of the crops until 
the crop is severed; and in fact no property passes until the crop is 
delivered either by the severance by the owner, or "by the purcha- 
ser being permitted to sever it for himself, which is indeed 
constructively a delivery by the owner. 

Thus by the law of England, growing crops come within the 
description of emblements and are deemed ch-attels by reason of 
their being raised by labour and manurance. This applies how- 



103 

ever only to cereal crops, sncli as grain &o., and not to crops of 1801. 
grass or fruit. The view taken by the law of England has been Oi^t. 31. 
affirmed by the law of Ceylon in the cases No. 10286 Negombo — 

and 5670 Negombo C. R. (Nell's Rep. p. 112) 

The first case related to an implanted crop of tobacco, and in 
this case, the Supreme Court makes a distinction between the sale 
of a growing crop and the sale of a crop the seeds or plants of 
which are not yet in the ground, deciding that a sale of the former 
is not a sale of the interest in land, and that a sale of the letter is. 
This is conformable with all the English decisions, and also with 
the opinions of Lord Coke (Co. Litt., 556); and it may be laid down 
as a principle on the basis of both English and Ceylon precedents 
that the sale of any growing produce of the earth (reared by 
labour and expense and within the definition oifi-nctus industriales 
or emblements) in actual existence at the time of the sale, whether 
in a state of maturity or not, is not to be considered an interest in 
or concerning land within No. 7 of 1840. 

The second case decided by the Supreme Court on this ques- 
tion related to the sale of plaintain bushes. This case decided that 
sale to affect an interest in land ; but it does not militate against 
the principle laid down, as it does uot appear that the Court regard- 
ed plantains a,sjructus industriales, or that they were planted prior 
to the sale, 

The result of these cases, and of the many others which have 
been decided upon the subject, is thus stated in Williams Saunders 
[.395, u. (g), Ed. 187 1] Duppa v. Mayo. A similar and very clear view 
of this subject is also taken by Lord St Leonards (see Concise View of 
Law of V. ^ P. 78, Ed. of 1851). " It appears to be now settled, 
" that with respect to emblements orfructus industriales (i.e. the corn 
" and other growth of the earth, which are producednot spontaneously 
" but by labour and industry), a contract for the sale of them while 
" growing, whether they are in a state of maturity, or whether they 
" have still to derive nutriment from the land in order to bring them 
" to that state, is not a contract for the sale of any interest in land, 
" but merely for the sale of goods, Evans v. Roberts, (5 B. & C. 829), 
" Sainsbury v. Matthews, (4 M. & W. 343). And it will make no 
' ' difference whether they are to be repared or dug up by the buyer or 
" by the seller, Jones v. Flint (10 A. & E. 753). The true question 
" is, whether, in order to effectuate the intention of the parties, it be 
" necessary to give the buyer an interest in the land, or whether an 
" easement of the right to enter the land, for the purpose of harvest- 
" ing and carrying them away, is all that was intended to be granted 
'■' to the buyer." In this instance it is left doubtful whether the crops 
sold ^vere growing crops or not. The case is therefore remanded 
for further hearing. 



104 



1861. 
Oct. 31. 



I'. C. JaSna 
No. 10853. 



Nasavally v. Supramanian 



Pleadings^ 

iuBufficient. 

stamps - 

practice. 



The judgment of the Supreme Court ran as follows: — - 

This is a'snit for a divorce; but the only objection taken is 
that the proceedings are not on sufficient stamps : the defendant's 
advocate moved that the proceedings be quashed and the plaintiff 
non-suited with costs. 

On this motion, the Court below adjudged that the defendant 
should have demurred to the libel, and not now take any objection 
to the class, when issue is joined and the case ready for trial. 
The Court below also held that the old stamps should be cancelled, 
I and the pleadings written on proper stamps ; that the objection of 
the defendant should be over-ruled, and the case proceeded with, 
the same being otherwise ready for trial. It was ordered accor- 
dingly. " _ _ . . ■ . 

The practice in such cases is laid down in Marshall's Judgments, 
p. 507, par. 7, p. 647, par. 18, and also in D. C. Oalle 17348, re- 
ported in Lorenz's Eep. 

Erom these precedents, it appears that when pleadings are 
insufficiently stamped, the proper course it to apply to the Court 
by motion, or to obtain a Rule to shew cause why the additional 
stamps should not be supplied within a given time. The order of 
Court (if it is satisfied that the application is correct) should be that 
the party having insufficiently stamped his pleadings should supply 
the additional stamps required within a given time. ' In this case, 
the order is so far wrong that the Court has cancelled the first set? 
of stamps an the pleadings, which, if it fiaeans anything, meana 
that, in' the language of the Stamp Ordinance, it rules the pleadings 
to be unavailable to be unavailable in Uw; whereas the Court 
should have merely orderefl additional stamps to be supplied so as 
to make up the deficiency in stamps. It appears that the plaintiff 
has complied with the order as regards her libel, but not as regards' , 
her replication, and that the defendants has not complied with the 
order. 

It must however be understood that it is not intended that 
additional stamps should be annexed or affixed to the pleading 
insufficiently stamped (that" is forbidden by the l^th cl. of the 
Stamp Ordinance of 1852); but that the party whose pleading is 
insufficiently stamped should apply for additional stamps under the 
7th clause. That application necessitates the payment of a penalty 
of £ 10. And it -will be for the party in fault to' consider whether 
it will be abetter for him to pay the penalty, or commence his suit 
de novo. One course or the other he must take. 

The Supreme Court thinks that the order of the Cqurt below 
should be set aside, a]id the parties left to adopt the course 



105 

pointed out in the 7th, sec. abovementioned, or to agree to com- 1861. 
mence the suit de novo from the anawev. At present by the 6th Nov. 5. 
see. of the Stamp Ordinance, there ia no answer or replication avail- 
able in law before the District Court. The defendant ought 
therefore to fill a fresh answer in supply additional stamps under 
the 10th clause, paying a penalty of £10. Similarly must the 
plaintifE with her replication at the proper time. 



5th November. 
Present: — Creasy, C. J., and Temple, J. 

No 28954 f Sobita Uname v. Ratnapale Unanse. 

The facts of this case are sufficiently indicated in the following ■?«'" deliotiom 

judgment of the Court: — w ^"^^ 

^ ° interest rei 

This is an action brought by the plaintiff as executor of S^^^f^f^* 
Dassankare Unanse to recover possession of certain land. The 
defendant claimed the land by deed of transfer from the same 
Unanse. 

The sannas clearly shows that the land in question is temple 
land, and that it was held by Dassankare, not as a proprietor, but 
in the capacity of officiating priest of the temple. 

This was admitted on both sides in the argument, and it was 
equally admitted that the deed of alienation to the defendant is 
void, and also that the plaintiff has no right in his character of 
executor to recover the land as if it were part of the estate of 
Dassankare. 

But it appears also that the plaintiff is officiating priest of 
the temple, and that in that character he is entitled to the land. 

If the plaintiff had sued for this land as executor by mere 
mistake or inadvertence, we should have had no hesitation in 
amending the proceedings and giving him judgment as we have 
been prayed to do. But we believe that the misdescription was- 
intentional and that the plaintiff has been purposely endeavouring 
to treat this land as the private property of his testator, and not 
as temple land. We also believe that the defendant, when he 
took the deed of transfer from Dassankare, knew perfectly well the 
tenure of the land, and was wilfully participant in an attempt to 
despoil the temple. 

We have been strongly inclined to nonsuit the plaintiff, on 
the maxim m pari delicto potior ett conditio possidentis ; but on 
the other hand, there is the maxim interest rei-publicae ut finis sit 
litium; and on the whole, we think it best not to make another 



106 



1861. 
Nov. 5. 



action necessary, but to place at once the possession of the property 
where it is clear it ought to be, i.e. in the hands of the officiating 
priest. 

We do not adjudicate the plaintiff to be officiating priest 
de jure, but only de facto. If the defendants or other persons have 
conflicting claims to the priesthood, as has been suggested, this 
judgment is not to prejudice those claims which have not been 
investigated in the present action. 

We shall mark our sense of the plaintiff's misconduct by dis- 
allowing his costs. 



Office of 
inayoraal — 
his duties — 

tenure of 
land. 



D. C. Matara, 1 Mathes v. Barton et al. 

No. 19487. J (The Queen's Advocate, intervening.) 

The following was the judgment of the Supreme Court : — 

In this case, the plaintiff had for many years prior to 1858 
held the office of mayoraal of NaimbeUa in the District of 
Matara, and had during the time possessed the lands which tl\js 
f. "tion was brought to recover. 

In 1858 the Crown Officers dismissed the plaintiff from the 
'ffice of mayoraal and took possession of the lands, alleging, as 
'Jiey now allege, that the lands were crown lands, the use of which 
was allowed to the mayoraal as remuneration for the discharge of 
the duties of that office ; that the office was revocable, and not 
hereditary ; and that, when plaintiff ceased by dismissal to be 
mayoraal, he had no longer any right to the land. 

The plaintiff maintained that he and his ancestors were here- 
ditary mayoraals, and that he and they before him held these lands 
as service paraveny lands, and that the effect of the Ordinance 
No. 3 of 1852 had been to enfranchise them and make them the 
plaintiff's absolute property. 

After hearing the case very ably argued on both sides, and' 
after repeated careful examination of the evidence, we feel no 
doubt whatever that the lands were not service paraveny lands at 
any time, to which the evidence refers, and we feel equally clear 
that the office of mayoraal, in this district at least, was not, and is 
not, hereditary. The plaintiff called as a witness his elder brother, 
who had been also a mayoraal, and bad been in fact, until plain- 
tiff's dismissal, joint mayoraal with him : the two brothers holding 
each one-half of the land which had formerly been held in entirety 
by one mayoraal. This witness described the duties of a mayoraal 
as follows : 

"1. To superintend the culture of the fields ; 
" 2. To estimate the crop for taxation j ■ 



107 

" 3. To sign the wattooroos upon which the government 1861. 
" share is farmed out ; Nov. 5. 

"4. To furnish returns of cro\yn lands when ordered ; 

" 5. To attend at rent sales, and otherwise to attend to any 
" order of the government agent or his assistant." 

" The Government rents are still sold, crops still estimated for 
" for taxation. Wattooroos are still signed and cultivation still 
" superintended. All the duties of a mayoraal still exist." 

This witness further stated : " I came into the lands on the 
" death of my further, and also into the office of mayoraal 60 years 
" ago / waa appointed to the office by the mudalyar of the time, and 
" acted under the office which is now identified with that of the 
" Government Agent, and I could not have held the office without 
" being so appointed. It was the usual custom for the son to be 
" appointed to succeed the father." 

The plaintiff called One witness more, who proved that plain- 
tiffs father was a mayoraal, and held the lands, which after^ his 
death " were held by plaintiff and last witness, who in return per- 
" formed the office of mayoraal." 

If we were to take the case on the evidence for the plaintiff 
only, we should be disposed to consider that the lands were not 
paraveny,- that is, heritable, lands at all, but that the possession of 
them was annexed to the office of mayoraal, and that the right to 
that office was given, not by inheritance, but by Government ap- 
pointment. But the remainder of the proceedings places this be- 
yond a doubt. 

In the first place, the plaintiff's proctor, while the cas6 for the 
crown was being opened, made a distinct admission th3,t, the lands 
were crown lands in 1829. We do not understand the specific impor- 
ance of this particular date, but we certainly find nothing that could 
have changed the lands from crown lands into service paraveny lands 
between 1829 and 1852, so as to have made the Ordinance of that 
year operate on them in the manner contended for by the plaintiff. 
But without straining the force of this admission, we look to the 
evidence for the crown, and we find the second defendant, who is a 
mudalyar of the District, and a witness named Wrikremeratne 
Christian, who is a kachcheri mudalyar, giving the most explicit 
testimony that the office of mayoraal is not hereditary, and the 
execution of its duties is remunerated with lands which pass with 
the office to the successor appointed by government. The fact the 
son usually succeeds to the father is not enough to make such 
succession a matter of right ; nor does the fact of the appointment 
being verbal make the office hereditary. If the offices and the 
lands were taken by inheritance, there would be no need for the 
son having a fresh appointment from the government, which the 
evidence on both sides shews always to have been obtained. And 



108 

1861. there is specific proof given for the Crown of the occasional dis- 

Nov. 7. missal of mayoraals, and that in such a case, the lands do not 

remain in the possession of the dismissed mayoraal or his family, 

but that they go to the successor whom the crown appoints to the 

office. 

We do not think it necessary to determine what may be the 
correct Sinhalese title for the tenure of these lands. We are quite 
satisfied of the nature of the tenure, that the office is not hereditary, 
and that the holder of it is liable to dismissal by the Crown, in 
which case he loses the lands together with the office and does not 
retain the pay after he is discharged of the duties. 

The judgment of the plaintiff. is reversed. Judgment is to be 
entered for the defendant and for the Crown. 



tth. November. 
Present : — Creasy C. J., and Temple, J., 

N ^d^Qfi I Bandara Meniha et al. v. Palingo Menika 

Kandyan Plaintiffs, as issue of one Siam Banda Coralle by his first wife. 

Law — deed sued defendant, his widow, for an undivided moiety of certain lands, 
of^alienation Defendant denied the claim of the plaintiffs and pleaded a 

disinherison P^P^'"' writing or " deed of inheritance," dated 22nd August 1860, 
whereby her husband, Siam Banda Coralle, " made over and grant- 
ed in paravney " to the defendant and her minor children the lands 
in question. 

The plaintiffs demurred to this answer as insufficient, in that 
the paper writing pleaded did not (as was essential, under the 
Kandyan Law) contain a clause of disinherison in respect of plain- 
tiff's share of inheritance. 

The deed ran as follows: — 

Know all men by these presents. Purport of a deed of inheritance 
caused to be written and granta^jby me E. W. R. Siam Banda Coralle late 

of and now residing att;Sulongamowa in the Kohensea Pattu of 

Matela in the Central Province.of the Island of Ceylon, is as follows :— 

That the field called &o., \yiames and homidaries of several lands being 
Si t out, the deed proceeded^ : these said high and low lands, houses, gardens 
and plantations, I the above named E, W. R. Siam Banda Coralle have 
m ide over and granted in parajveny to my wife M. Palingo Menika of &c., 
ani to my begotten children [duly namedl : to these six persons, with my 
good will and pleasure. 

That henceforth my said M. Palingo Menika and my said five children 
[duly named'] shall render me every assistance during my life-time ; and 
at'iur my death all the said high and low lands, houses, gardens and planta- 
tions, my said wife Patingo Menika, Loku Banda, Calloo Banda, Punchi 



109 

Banda, Muttoo Banda and Bandare Meuika : these six persons and their 1891. 
descendants, assigns and heirs and every of them are empowered to possess Nov, 7. 

for ever, and do whatever they may please, and they are hereby made over ; 

and further from this day forth, none of the heirs, administrators and 
executors of the estate of me, the said Siam Banda Coralle, shall have any 
power or title to the said high and low lands, houses, gardens and planta- 
tions or any of them ; and I have hereby covenanted that I have not hitherto 
done any act whatsoever whereby this deed ofinheritance shall be cancelled; 
and for a deed in that behalf, I the said B. W. K. Siam Banda Coralle have 
set my signature &c. 

The learned District Judge (Smedley) held that the document 
purported to be a testamentary disposition, and as such was 
governed by Ord. No. 21 of 1844, cl. 1. He was therefore of 
opinion that a clause of disherison was unnecessary ; he according- 
ly over-ruled the demurrer. 

On appeal, the Supreme Court set aside the order, and enter- 
ed up judgment, on the demurrer, for the plaintiff, in these terms: — 

The Supreme Court is clearly of opinion that the in&trument 
under which the defendant claims is a deed of alienation, and not 
a last will and testament. 

The case comes within the authority of D. C. Kandy, 27150,* 
which the Supreme Court considers to have been rightly determined 
and to be conclusive in plaintiff's favour. 

* The facts of this case, as yet unreported, are these : 

N 271B^' I IndejoH Unanse v. Keerale. 

Plaintiff sued in ejectment, claiming the lands in question under a deed, 
dated 1st lHay 1848, which was worded as follows : — 

" Purport of a deed otparaveny, causeA. to be written and granted at 
" Kandy on 1st May 1848, is as follows,— 

•'I the undersigned Punchiralle &c., do hereby declare that my 
" paraveny property inherited to me from my father Dingiralle and possess- 
" ed since the last 50 years without dispute, and situate in &c., have been 
" transferred and made over to my younger brother by relationship called 
" Indejote Unanse, for the purpose of obtaining assistance to myself and 
" my wife Suberat Ettena, as both of us have no children, and entered into 
" the following agreement, to wit, that no dispute whatever can be made 
" in future against this by any of my descendants, either by word or deed, 
" and that the said Indejote Unanse shall during our mutual life render us 
" satisfactory assistance, and after our death to inter our dead bodies duly 
" according to the customs of the country, and perform all that is necessary 
" as religious rites for the sake of the other world. That from this day for- 
" ward, the said Indejote Unanse and his assigns shall possess the whole 
" of the said lands in undisturbed paraveny possession for ever, doing what- 
" ever they please with the same &c." 

Defendant pleaded in effect that he was the son of Punohirale, and as 
such was entitled by inheritance to the lands in suit. 

The District Judge found defendant to be the admitted heir-at-law of 
Punchirale, and that under the collective decision of the Supreme Court in 
D. a Kandy. *iVrl '* ^^'^ absolutely necessary, in order to render valid 



110 

1861. 12th November. 

Nov. 12. , ^ ^ 
Present: — Creasy, C. J., Steeling, J., and Temple, J. 

D. C. Kandy 1 cv- ti 

No. 31859. J Simpson v. Power. 

Transfer of '^^^ plaintiff applied to the Supreme Court, for reasons stated, 

case fi'om one that the above styled case be transferred from the District Court of 

District Court Kandy to the District Court of Colombo. The Supreme Court in 

to another sanctioning the application, observed as follows: — 

" ■ There is a defect in the proceedings before us, which we wish 

to mention as the matter is a point of common practice. 

In all ajjpli cations like the present, when the motion is made 
by one of the litigant parties, it ought to be shewn to the Supreme 
Court that the other side had notice of the intended application. 
This does not appear in the present proceedings. 



a revocable deed of the nature put forward by plaintiff, that an express 
clause of disinherison should exist. The District Judge therefore dismissed 
plaintiff's case. 

On appeal, the Supreme Court set aside the judgment of the Court 
below and referred the case back to it, ordering special jurors to be sum- 
inoned and, with their assistance, to find, — 

"1. Whether according to Kandyan Law, a deed such as is put for- 
ward by plaintiff ought to contain an express clause of disinherison, and if 
so, in what specific terms. 

" 2. Whether if such a clause be requisite, the deed ought to set forth 
the reasons for such disinherison. 

'• 3. To what degrees of affinity to grantor, such requirements would 
extend. 

" i. To specify in what Districts of the Kandyan Provinces such law 
prevails." 

And the Supreme Court ordered the District Coui't to give judgment 
accordingly (19 November 1856.) 

Special assessors being summoned by the District Court as ordered, they 
were unanimously of opinion, — 

"1. That in order that a deed such as the one in question may be 
valid, it must contain a clause of disinherison. 

" 2. That such a deed should set forth the reasons of disinherison, such 
as, failure to render assistance, undutiful conduct, ill treatment, or generally 
such conduct as is displeasing to the parent. 

" 3. That such requirements extend as respects all persons who are 
the lawful heirs of the proprietor, no matter how near or distant may be 
their affinity to him. 

" 4. That this law or custom, so far^as their knowledge extends, applies 
to the whole of the Kandyan Country."' 

Accordingly the District Judge found as follows : — 

" Thus the assessors, three of the highest and most intelligent and ex- 
" perienced of the Kandyan chiefs agree entirely with the law laid down in 
" my original judgment, which must therefore stand." (16th June, 1857). 



Ill 



To prevent delay, the Supreme Court gi-ants an order, but 
only a conditional order for the removal of the crops as prayed, on 
the plaintiff obtaining and filing in the District Court a written 
consent of the defendant or his advocate or proctor. 



1861. 
Nov. 26. 



26th November. 
Present: — Creasy, C. J., Sterling, J., and Temple, J. 



D. C. Kandy ) 
No. 30632. J 



Samsudeen Lebbe v. Assene Lebbe et. al. 



This was a suit in eiectment brought on the 22nd December, -Ejectment^ 



1857, by plaintiff, as administrator of one Casi Lebbe, deceased. 
Plaintiff averred that a Packir Tamby, being indebted to the intes- 
tate, mortgaged to the latter a house and grounds, with possession 
thereof in lieu of interest; and that while the intestate was in such 
possession, the defendants on the 6th day of December 1852, 
wrongfully ousted him. Plaintiff prayed for ejectment, claiming 
as damages £, 72, " being the issues, rents and profits of the said 
house and grounds taken and appropriated by the defendants as 
aforesaid." 

The learned District Judge rejected the claim which defen- 
dants had made to the property, and gave judgment for plaintiff 
as prayed. 

On appeal. Rust and Dias for appellant contended inter alia 
that under cl. 9 of Ordinance No. 8 of 1834, damages could not 
be recovered for any period more than 2 years before action brought. 

Lorenz contra. 

The Court amended the decree of the Court below in the 
following judgment: — 

The Supreme Court considers the decision of the Supreme 
Court in D. C. Kandy 26750 * conclusive on this subject; even 
had there been none such, we should have come to the same con- 
clusion. The 9th clause of the Ordinance No. 8 of 1834 bars the 
recovery of damages in respect of any period more than two years 



damages- 
preBcription, 



* The following are the facts of this case, hitherto uareported. 

^- C- ^^^^'y I Sudhana v. UUv, Banda. 

No. 26750. ) 

Suit brought on 8th July 1853, in ejectment. Ouster, June 1849. 
Damages claimed at the rate of £ 5 from June 1849, to December 1852. 

Judgment as prayed for & 15. 

On appeal, i^er EowE, 0. J., (12th August, 18S7)— Decree modified 
" by the plaintiff being entitled to £ 10 sterling, the damages for two years 
" only, under the 9th cl, of Ord, No, 8 of 1834." 



112 

1891. before action brougM. We tUnk however that plaintiff is entitled 
Dec. 3. to. have added to this, damages claimed at the same rate for the 
time which shall have elapsed between the bringing of the suit 
and the time the defendant gives up possession. The delay during 
this interval is in no respect the fault of the plaintiff, but is the 
inevitable consequence of the course of legal proceedings: actus 
curice nemini facit injuriam. We think the plaintiff is not to he 
driven to a fresh action to recover compensation for being kept 
out of possession, while his case was before the Court. 

The verdict will therefore be reduced to £ 36 in respect of 
the two years before action brought, and also for the further sum 
calculated at the rate of £ 1.10 from 22nd December, 1857, the 
commencement of the action, to the day on which defendant shall 
give up possession. 



- Srd December. 

Present: — Creasy, C. J., Sterling, J., and Temple, J. 

C. K. Ratnapoora) rr i rr-^^- tt -. ^ 

N fifiai f Unguhamy v. Kittia Unanse et. al. 

Practice The following judgment of the Supreme Court sets out the 

— non- joinder facts of the case: — 

widow— IJ^ *^^^ c&ais, the plaintiffs father bequeathed certain land to 

inesne profits a wihare of which the first and second defendants are the priests. 

— ^prescrip- This bequest was set aside in the testamentary case No. 156 

*'°'^" Eatnapoora, as being contrary to the Proclamation of the 13th 

September 1819, when the lands so bequeathed devolved on the 

present plaintiff as heir-at-law. 

The plaintiff now sues to recover the mesne profits from 
April 1853 till February 1860, the period during which the 
defendants had possession of the lands. Judgment has been given 
for the plaintiff upon evidence, the defendant declining to call any, 
contending that the defendant should be non-suited because the 
testator's widow has not been made a co-plaintiff. 

The Supreme Court considers that the widow, being otherwise 
amply provided for by the will of her husband, has no interest in 
the land in question and should not be a party to the suit. 

All that a vridow is entitled to under the Kandyan Law is 
maintenance and support, and for this purpose she may receive 
from the heir either a portion of the produce of the deceased's 
paraveny lands, or she may have the temporary possession and 
usufruct of a suitable portion of such lands, and in the latter case, 
the heir-at-law shall perform the rajakaria or personal service due 



113 



on account of that portion. But in this case, being otherwise 
provided for, the widow does not require, and is not entitled to, 
further maintenance. If the lands in question were the acquired 
property of the testator, anH as such subject to the life-estate of the 
widow, it was for the defendant to prove such to be the case, which 
they have not done. 

It is moreover clear from the will, that the testator in be- 
queathing other lands to his widow, while he gave this land to the 
wihare, never intended him to have any claim upon this land in 
question. 

The decree of the Court below is affirmed, except as to the 
amount of daipages, the plaintiff, under cl. 9 of the Ordinance 
No. 8 of 1834, being only entitled to recover the mesne profits for 
two years prior to the commencement of this suit : such profits to 
be calculated on the same data as those given by the judgment of 
the Court below. 



1861. 
Dec. 5. 



5th December. 



Present: — Creasy, C. J., Stirling J., and Temple J.. 



C. R. Calpentyn ) 
No. 17716. j" 



Sinne Wappoo v. Mohamado Aly et al. 



The judgment of the Court below was set aside, and case re- 
manded for trial, in these terms : — 

It is an acknowledged custom of the country that persons who 
have entered upon land with consent of the owner and have actual- 
ly planted it with cocoanuts, are entitled to a share of the trees 
when they come into bearing. They may claim this by operation 
of law, and not as a consequence of the terms of any agreement 
between them and the owners. 

The plaintiff therefore should be allowed to prove that he 
entered under such circumstances, and if he can do so, the absence 
of a written agreement is not fatal to his claim. 

It is moreover stated in the plaint, that plaintifE planted the 
trees 22 years ago, and was only ousted one and a half years ago. 
If so, he may be able to prove a prescriptive possession of the 
planting share. 



Custom — 

planting 

share 

—Evidence. 



114 



1861. D. C. Ratnapoora, 1 
Dec. 5. No. 7126. / 



Tilliieraine v. Dingey Ham?/. 



Kandyan 
Law — ninde- 
gmtia^ its 
nature — 
tenure of 
service. 



The facts of this case are sufficiently indicated in the following 
judgment of the Supreme Court: — 

This was an action brought by the plaintiff, as proprietor by 
purchase of a nindegama, against the defendant as tenant by service 
for refusal to perform the customary services. The plaintiff claim- 
ed damages for past refusal and prayed that the defendant should 
be compelled to render the customary services in future, or be ejected 
for default in so doing. 

The defendant by his plea denied his liability to service to the 
proprietor of the nindegama in respect of the lands held by him, 
the defendant; he also denied that plaintiff had purchased the 
rdndegama as alleged in the plaint. 

"When the case came on for trial, the District Judge stated thiit 
the case might be decided without hearing eviiieuce, and he pro- 
i.pcded to nonsuit the plaintiff, after giving an elaborate judgment 
to which we have paid careful attention. 

The District Judge seems to hold that the plaintiff, as owner 
of this nindegama, is not entitled to demand tho customary service.^ 
from the tenants for these reasons: 

(Ij that a nindegama including the right of the services, 
cannot be acquired by purchase ; 

(2) that a new nindegama proprietor cannot exact these 
.services if he is not domiciled in the Kandyan Provinces ; 

(.3) that no new proprietor can exact the services, if he is of 
a caste infeilor to the caste of the tenant. 

The learned Judge further states as a fact, that the present 
plaiutiff is modliar of the Ratnapoora District Court and a native 
of the Maritime Provinces. 

None of these objections is raised by the defenda)ii in his 
pleadings, and the only one that is supported by matter apparent 
on the face of the record is the first. 

We think this objection untenable. We find no authority 
whatever for the general proposition that the owner of a nindegama 
cannot alienate by sale, or that a Fiscal cannot, in due proceFS 
against such owner's property, transfer the nindegama with all ins 
proprietary rights, so that the purchaser may hold as fully as the 
last owner. On the contrary, we find that in several crisos of such 
sales, when disputes have arisen between the new owner and the 
tenants, no objection of this kind has been raised. The District 
Court Ratnapura case No. 7013 is one of these. The judgment of 
the Supreme Court in that case directs the defendant (the tenant) 
to continue in possession as theretofore, on tenure of service to the 
plaintiff, the purchaser. 



115 

Th.e second and third objections are partly based on assump- 1861. 
tions of facts that have not been ])!-oved, and of which the Court Dec. 5. 
cannot take judicial notice. The cise must go back for trial of 
the issiies which the parties have r lised. But as, after what has 
taken place, the defendant will probably amend his pleadings and 
raise the suggested defences, we think it desirable to make some 
remarks on them. 

1. The anticipated objection about domicile ought not to 
prevail. Even if any restrictive custom of the kind as to capacity 
for holding nindegama ever prevailed among the Kandyans, (in 
support of which we find no authority), the state of things is essen- 
tially altered from what it was when Kandy was a separate and 
independent kingdom, and when Kandyans and low country 
Singhalese were aliens and foreigners with regard to each other. 
They are now fellow subjects of the same sovereign. 

2. There remains for consideration the expected objection 
on the ground of caste. This can only arise after legal evidence 
that the plaintiff is of inferior caste to that of the defendant, and 
also after full and satisfactory evidence of the existence of such a 
customary law in the Kandyan Provinces, as the District Judge 
has assumed to exist. If evidence to that effect is tendered (on 
pleadings properly framed), it must be received ; and the value of 
it, and any authorities that may be cited, must be duly considered 
at the proper time. At present, we are aware of no authority to 
shew the existence of such a law. We have caused extensive and 
long continued researches to be made on the subject, and though 
we can find nothing expressly determining the question, the general 
result of our enquiries is to make us disbelieve the existence of 
such a distinction between the right of persons as is suggested here. 
Such a distinction is opposed to the general principle on which 
justice should be administered, the principle of the equality of all 
H. Majesty'? subjects in the eye of the law. 

We will not prejudge the effect of any proof or authority, 
which the defendant may be able to adduce in order to shew that 
there is an exceptional distinction here, but the burden of proof 
lies on him and the proof ought in such a case to be full and clear. 
It will be to his advantage if he shews that the services in question 
cannot be performed by deputy, and that a low caste proprietor 
cannot, if the pleases, exact a pecuniary compensation for non-per- 
formance, even if he cannot treat such non-performance by a 
high-caste tenant as a forfeiture, and eject the tenant on that 
account. 



116 

/, 1 Re apulicatioi 
Dec. 6. No. 6625. 



1861. T>. C. Kandy, 1 Re application of A. R. Shaw of Kandy for a 



writ in the nature of habeas corpus. 

District mi <■ ^ i ■ ^ ■•■> -in,,' 

Courts— The facts of this matter are fully set out in the following 

power to issue judgment of the Supreme Court : — 

\pnt of _ 

habeas oorptis '^'^^ i^ ^^ appeal from an order of the District Court of 

— ^nature of Kandy for the issue of a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas 

such writ— corpus directed to Ann de Lange and her husband Gerard de Lange, 

interpretetion requiring them to produce, on Monday the* 21st October, the 

bodies of the infants in the annexed affidavit mentioned, before that 

Court, and there to shew cause why the said infants should not be 

delivered to the custody of their legal guardians, the said Alfred 

Shaw, for the causes in the said affidavit set forth. 

The writ was (very properly) obeyed by the parties to whom 
it was directed, and on the return, cause was shewn, and the writ 
was discharged on the merits. But those parties have appealed to 
this Court against the order of the District Court for the issuing 
of this writ. 

The appellants maintain in their petition of appeal that a 
District Court has no power to issue writs of habeas corpus. The 
question is one of great constitutional and of great practical impor- 
tance, and we quite agree with the opinion expressed by the learn- 
ed judge below that it is desirable to have the law on such a ques- 
tion settled as soon as can properly be effected. We have therefore 
given our prompt and most careful consideration to this case. We 
caused the attention of the Queen's Advocate to be drawn to it ; 
and we have had the benefit of the attendance and of the comments 
of that learned functionary at the argument. No one argued 
before us on behalf of the appellants, but the respondents, who had 
to maintain the validity of the writ, were fully represented by coun- 
isel, (Mr. Lorenz). 

It was admitted by the counsel for the respondents (and the 
fact is indisputable), that the power to issue writs of habeas corpus 
is no where expressly given to the District Courts by any imperial 
statute, by any Charter, by any Ordinance, or by any Order in 
Council now in force. It is admitted also that the cases in which 
the District Courts have taken on themselves to issue such writs 
have been few and exceptional, and that the question of the validity 
such writs has never previously to the present occasion been 
brought before the Supreme Court. It is equally certain that the 
Supreme Court is expressly authorised by the 49th clause of the 
Charter to grant writs of habeas corpus, and that it has consistently 
been in the habit of granting them. 

The contention of the respondents is that the District Courts 
are authorised by implication, though not by express words, to 
grant these writs. In order to test the validity of this alleged 



117 

implication, it is necessary to trace minutely the growth of an 1861. 
important branch of the law of this colony, and to have regard also Dec. 5, 
to the analogous law of England. . — 

It is desirable in the first place to call to mind, and to keep 
clearly before the mind, certain general facts and principles, and 
also to consider if there is any peculiar canon of interpretation 
which we should follow, when in the course of our enquiry we 
have to deal with imperfect or doubtful phraseology. 

We shall, therefore, by way of preliminary matter consider 
(1) the general nature and character of the writ of habeas corpus, 
and what Courts in England could issue it, (2) the general nature 
and character of the District Courts and Supreme Court in this Island, 
(3) what special rule, if any, of judicial interpretation is furnished 
by the nature of the subject before us. 

It is a maxim of law that " the writ of habeas corpus is a 
very high prerogative writ, by which the king has a right to en- 
quire the causes for which any of his subjects are deprived of their 
liberty." Such is the definition given (after Hale and other 
authorities) by Lord Eldon in Crowley's case, 2 Swanston 48, a 
case that deserves the most attentive perusal of all students of 
constitutional law, and in which some inaccuracies of Blackstone 
are corrected. There is another definition of the writ of habeas cor- 
pus by Sir John Wilmot, also cited by Lord Eldon with approbation 
in Crowlej/s case, and which deserves citation with special reference 
to the matter now before us. Sir John Wilmot says: "It is a reme- 
" dial mandatory writ, by which the King's Supreme Court of 
" Justice and the Judges of that Court, at the instance of a subject 
" aggrieved, commands the production of that subject, and 
" enquires after the cause of his imprisonment ; and it is a 
" writ of such a sovereign and transcendant authority that no pri- 
" vilege of person or place can stand against it." It is to be 
remembered that Sir John Wilmot is speaking, as is Lord Eldon, 
of the writ of habeas corpus at Common Law, and not as depen- 
dant on the special provisions of 31 Car., 2, commonly called the 
Habeas Corpus Act. 

Originally, in England, an ordinary person who was detained 
in unlawful custody could claim his writ of habeas corpus from 
one of two Courts : each being in its sphere, a Supreme Court. 
One of these was the Court of King's Bench, the supreme criminal 
court of the whole realm. The other was the High Court of Chan- 
cery, which, according to Lord Coke, is an officina justitiae always 
open. If the aggrieved person was an oiScer or had other privilege 
in the Court of Common Pleas at Westminister, or in the Court of 
Exchequer, he might, if he chose, obtain his habeas corpus from 
the court in which he was so privileged. Afterwards, by means of 
certain -well-known legal fictions, almost any person could be treat- 



118 

1861 ^'^ ^^ privileged in the Common Pleas or Exchequer ; and in 

Deo. 5. Bushel's case, 1 Vmighan 133, Mod. 119, 184, 6 HowelVs State 
. — Trials 999, in Charles ii's reign, the Common Pleas decided that 

they could is-sue writ wholly irrespective of privilege. We shall 
revert to this decision presently, because the argument in favour 
of the present respondent seems to arise from it, to which we have 
have given due weight and consideration. 

It is clear that the High Court of Chancery and the three 
Superior Courts of Common Law, each possessing a general juris- 
diction over the realm of England, are the only English Courts that 
have ever issued this writ. No inferior, no local tribunal, such as 
the County Courts or the Sheriff's ToUrn or the Court of Quarter 
Sessions, even assumed such a power. The very high prerogative 
writ was an instrument to be wielded only by Courts of very 
high order. 

2ndly. When we consider the general nature and character of 
the District Courts in this Island, we find (as either name imports) 
that they have jurisdiction, not over the whole Island, but each 
over a limited area. Within these limits, each District Court has 
jurisdiction over all civil pleas, suits and actions, over idiots and 
lunatics, over administrations and revenue causes, and over matri- 
monial causes. There is a criminal jurisdiction also, but that 
jurisdiction does not extend to offences of a grave character, which 
the provisos in the Charter and in the subsequent Ordinances in 
that respect define. An appeal from any proceeding of the District 
Courts lies to the Supreme Court, which also may issue writs of 
mandamus, procedendo, and prohibition to the District Courts. 
The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is general over the Island, 
and it has expressly given to it an original jurisdiction in respect 
of all crimes and offences wheresoever in the Island they are alleged 
to have been committed. The Charter gives it expressly the power 
to issue writs of habeas corpus, and a subsequent Ordinance gives 
that power to any Judge of the Supreme Court at all times and in 
any part of the Island. 

3rdly. There is a special rule of interpretation to be observed 
when we construe the various Charters and other legislative docu- 
ments that bear upon the case before us, and when we examine 
whether they extend to our District Courts the salutary power 
of vindicating the liberty of the subject by the speedy and effective 
agency of a writ of habeas corpus. It is the rule that a remedial 
statute is to be liberally construed {Dwarris, p. 632). This rule 
cannot be more strongly expressed than in Lord Eldon's own words 
respecting the judicial advancement of the claims of the English 
Court of Common Pleas to grant generally writs of habeas corpus 
ad subjiciendum. He terms it "a remarkable example of the 
" strength of the principle which our law has in it, that with respect 



lis 

" to the liberty of the subject, the Courts are to struggle to secure 1891. 
" it." Still, the Court cannot assume the power of making laws for this li^c. 5. 
purpose. We can only interpret what we find made : we must 
interpret it in the sense in which we believe it to have been framed, 
when we cannot see clearly what that sense was ; it is only in 
matters of doubt that the presumptioii in favour of liberty can be 
applied. 

We now address ourselves to the consideration of the actual 
legislation that has taken place, as to the power of our colonial 
Courts, or any of them, on this subject. And although the exis- 
tence of our District Courts and of our present Supreme Court 
dates only from the grant of the Charter of 1833, it is material to 
look to what had previously taken place since the acquisition of 
Ceylon by the British Sovereign. 

It is not pretended that any of the Dutch Courts which we 
found in existence here, exercised any remedial jui'isdiction against 
illegal imprisonment analogous to the process of habeas corpus. 
It is equally undisputed and indisputable that that writ was never 
granted by the local Courts, called Provincial Courts, which under 
the English regimen superseded, with a brief intermission, the 
Dutch local Courts, called Landraad Courts, and which said Pro- 
vincial Courts were in tiirn superseded by the present District 
Courts; and it is also- equally certain that the Supreme Court, 
which was created here by the Charter of 1801, did habitually 
grant these writs ; it is further certain that the Charter of 1801 did 
not by express terms give the Supreme Court that power, but that 
it was assumed by implication down at least to the date of an order 
in Council of the year 1830, of which more particular mention will 
be made presently. 

We fortunately possess very full and trustworthy means of 
knowing the state of the judicature in Ceylon during the period of 
which we are now speaking, i. e. from 1801 to l.s;'i(.). Authentic 
copies are in existence of the answers given in 1 Soi' by Sir Kichard 
Qttley and by Sir Charles Marshall to the questions of His then 
Majesty's Commission of Inquiry into the Laws and Courts of 
Ceylon. Sir Kichard Ottley" was then Chief Justice of the Island, 
and Sir Charles Marshall, Puisne Justice. We have had the ad- 
vantage of consulting these, and also we have extant the Reports of 
Mr. Cameron, one of the Commissioners of Enquiry, on whose 
recommendation, the Charter of 1S33 was pi-incipally framed. All 
these speak of the issuing of writs of habeas corpus by the Su- 
preme Court without express authority, and they all advise that 
express legislative authority to that effect should be given to the 
Supreme Court. Nothing of the kind is advised as to any other 
Court. Sir Charles Marshall refers to the 82 cl. of the Charter of 
1801 as impliedly giving that power to the then Supreme Court 
by authorizing it to issue writs of error ; and he remarks that the 



120 

1861. writ of habeas corpus ad subjiciendum is in the nature of a writ 
Dec. 5. of error to review the valididy of a committal. That reasoning 
however would only apply to cases where the imprisonment was 
by color of legal process : it would not hold good with respect to 
the numerous class of cases where a habeas corpus is needed to 
remedy unlawful restraint exercised by one private person over the 
liberty of another, such as was alleged in the very case now before 
us. Perhaps the 44th clause of the old Charter might have been 
called in aid, which ordained that the Supreme Court should ad- 
minister criminal justice and have jurisdiction over (inter alia) aU 
crimes, offences, misdemeanours and oppressions. The word 
"oppression" need not be construed as having been used as a 
term known in Roman Dutch Law (like the term " concussions" 
which occurs in the same clause), but it might be fairly taken as 
used in its common English sense, as it is employed in the English 
statutes of 11 and 12 W. iii. c. 12 for the punishment of oppressions 
committed in the Colonies. 

In 1820, after (and probably in consequence of the commis- 
sion of inquiry), an order of council was made as to the issuing of 
the writ of habeas corpus in this Island, which requires careful 
attention ; and that we may fully understand it, we must first look 
at a Regulation of the Ceylonese Government which had been 
made here in 1824 [we may also in passing observe that there had 
been a new Charter in 1810, but that new Charter had, so far as it 
increased the' power of the Supreme Court, been abrogated in 1811 
and it is of no importance with regard to the subject before us.] 

In 1824, a person named Rossiter had been arrested by order 
of the Colonial Government, and had applied to the Supreme Court 
for a writ of habeas corpus. Pending the argument, the then 
Lieutenant Governor in council " declared and enacted that it was 
" is and shall be lawful to any officer, civil or military, or other 
" person in whose custody or keeping any person or persons may 
" be, under orders from' the Governor, or in his absence the 
" Lieutenant Governor of this Island, signified to him in writing 
" under the hand of such Governor or Lieutenant Governor or by 
" the signature of the chief or Deputy Secretary to such Govem- 
" ment by authority of the said Governor or Lieutenant Governor 
" to certify a copy of such order as the authority under which 
" such person or persons is are or may be detained in his custody, 
" in return to any process of any Court calling on him to produce 
" the said person or persons, or to shew the authority for the 
"detention of such person &c., and such return shall be and is 
" hereby declared to be a sufficient return to such process, without 
" the production of such person or persons, and shall be allowed 
" as a good and sufficient return by every Court within this 
" Island, and as barring every further proceeding of such court in 
" respect to such person or persons upon such process." 



121 

This Btranga regulation was formally dis- Uowed by Order in 1861. 
Council made by His late Majesty William IV", on the 1st Novem- Dec. 5. 
ber 183U. But the Order in Council of 183 J did much more. — 

After the disallowing part, it proceeds as follows : " and it is 
" hereby ordered that all or any person or persons that are or shall 
" be in prison within the said Island of Ceylon by warrant of the 
" Governor of that Island, signed by himself and by two members 
" at the least of the Council uf Government thereof, for high treason, 
" suspicion of high treason, or treasonable practices, may be detain- 
" ed in safe custody for 1 8 calendar months next after the date 
" of any such vrarrant without bail or mainprize ; and that no 
" Court or judge or officer or other person or persons whomsoever 
" within the, Slid Island, by virtue of any authority in him vested, 
" shall discharge or admit to bail or try any such ]-;erson or persons 
" committed, without order from His Majesty thnnigh one of His 
" principal Secretaries of State, or from the Governor of the said 
" Island for the time being, any law or statute to the contrary 
" notwithstanding. Provided always, and it is further ordered, that 
" the Governor of the said Island issuing any such warrant afore- 
" said shall record in the Minutes of the Council of Government 
" of the said Island the causes and grounds of any such commit- 
" ment and shall transmit to His Majesty through one of his 
" principal Secretaries of State by the first possible opportunity a 
" full transcript of such minute, and that if it shall not appear to 
" His Majesty fit that such imprisonment of any such person aa 
" aforesaid should be prolonged, the said Governor shall, upon the 
" signification of such His Maje.sty's pleasure through one of his 
" principal Secretaries of State, cause any such person to be forthwith 
" discharged from further im])risonment or admitted to bail, or put on 
" his or her trial, as His Majesty shall be pleased to direct. But if 
'' jnany such case, His Majesty shall through one of his Principal 
" Secretaries of State signify his pleasure that any such person 
" should be longer continued in prison, then the person or persons 
" with reference to whom His Majesty's pleasure shall be so signifi- 
" ed, shall be detained in safe custody, without bail or mainprize, 
" until the expiration of such further time as His Majesty shall 
" be pleased to direct, and during such further period of imprison- 
" ment it shall not be lawful for any Court or judge or officer or 
" any other person or persons whomsoever within the said Island 
" by virtue of any authority in him vested, to discharge or admit to 
" bail or try any such person or persons without order from His 
" Majesty through one of his principal Secretaries of State or from 
"the Governor of the sad Islind for the time being, any law or 
" statute to the contrary notwithstanding. 

" And /or the removal of all doubts, it is further declared by 
" His Majesty with the advise of his Privy Council, that except in 



122 

1861. " the cases aforesaid, it is and shall be competent to His Majesty's 
Dec. 5. " Supreme Court of Cejlon or to any Judge of that Court to issue 
" writs of habeas corpus or mandates iu the nature of such writs, 
" as fully and effectually and under such and the like circum- 
" stances as by the law of England writs of habeas corpus can 
" 01" may be issued by any of His Majesty's Supreme Courts of 
" record at Westminster or by any Judge at any of those Courts. 

" And it is further ordered that the said Supreme Court of 
" Ceylon shall and is hereby authorized and required to make and 
" establish such rules of practice and proceedings as the local 
" circumstances of the said Island may require, for adapting to the 
" exigencies of the said Island so much of the law of England' as 
" relates to the issuing and proceeding upon writs of habeas corpis, 

" And it is further enacted that the present order shall con- 
" tinue and be in force until the 31st December 1834, and no 
" longer." 

In 1833, the present Charter was granted by which the 
District Courts were created with the powers already mentione:!, 
and by which the present Supreme Court was established. It will 
be remembere:! that Sir Richard Ottley, Sir Charles Marsliall and 
Mr. Cameron had all strongly recommended that express power to 
grant writs of habeas corpus should be given to the Supreme 
Court, and accordingly we find in the 49th section of the Charter 
these words : 

■' And we do further ordain and .appoint that the said Supreme 
" Court or any Judge thei'eof at any sessions so to be hoklen aa 
" aforesaid or in the District of Colombo or at any general sessions 
"of the said Court collectively, shall be and are hereby authoviz- 
" ed to grant and issue mandates in the nature of writs qf habeas 
" corpus, and to grant or refuse such mandates to bring up the 
" body of any person who shall be imprisoned within any part of 
" the said Island or its dependencies and to discharge or remand 
" any persjn so brought up or otherwise deal with such persons 
" according to law." 

It was contended in the argument before us in the present 
case that the Supreme Court was hereby authorised to grant writs of 
hobnas corpiis in these cases only when the imprisonment is under 
colcr of legal jiroceas. But we are clearly of opinion that no such 
limititiiu exists. The words are ample enough to comprise all 
Ciises, ami we wl.ih that no doubt should for a moment be entertain- 
ed as to the Kujireme Court having the power to grant the sovereign 
and summary remedy of process by habeas corpus, iu all casss 
whatever of unlawful imprisonment or forcible detention. We say 
emphatically " all cases whatever," because the Order in Council of 
1830, which we spoke of lately, and the Order in Council of 1835, 
■which we are about to speak of, have long ago expired. 



128 

After the receipt and proclamation of tlie Charter, but before 1861. 
the day on which it was to come into operation, a Regulation waa Dec .5. 
made, 6 of 1834, which in order to obviate doubts declared that — 

the new District Courts succeeded to all the powers of the Provin- 
cial Courts and the local Courts (therein enumerated) which were 
abolished by the Charter and which were to be replaced by tha 
new District Courts. It is enough for the present to state" that 
none of the old Courts had ever granted writs of habeas corpus. 

In 183.5 appeared the first and only legislative document that 
decidedly purported to give any power of granting writs of habeas 
corpus to the District Courts. It decidedly and unquestionably 
purported to give certain limited powers of the kind for a limited 
period. Whether by implication it recognised any powers of the 
kind and sanctioned such powers in perpetuity is a point of the 
utmost importance in the present case, and every word of this 
legislative document must be carefully examined. 

It is an Order in Council dated at the Court of St James, 4th 
of March 1 835. It runs as follows : 

" Whereas by an order of H. M. in Council bearing date on 
" on the 1st of November 1830, certain regulations were made res- 
" pecting the issuing by the Governor of the Island of Ceylnn of 
" warrant for the arrest and detention of persons charged with or 
" suspected of treason or treasonable practices, and respecting the 
" powers of the Supreme Court of the said Island in regard to 
" issuing writs of habeas corpus or warrant in the nature of such 
" writs for bringing before them the bodies of any person so arrest- 
" ed or detained. And whereas the said order expired and ceased 
" to be in force on the Slst December now last past, and it is ex- 
" pedieut that the same be revived and continued in force until 
" the time hereinafter in that behalf mentioned. Now therefore 
" His Majesty by and with the advice of His Privy Council doth 
" order, and it is hereby ordered, that the said Order in Council 
" of the 1st of November 1830 shall be, and the same is hereby, 
" revived and shall continue in force until the 31st day Dec. 1859." 

" Provided always, and it is hereby further ordered by the 
" authority aforesaid, that in all parts of the said recited Order in 
" Council in which the Supreme Court of Ceylou is mentioned, 
" reference shall, during the continuance of the present order, be under- 
" stood and be taken to be made to the Supreme Court and the 
" District Court resp ctively in the Island of Ceylon, mentioned in 
" H. M's Letters Patent under the great Seal bearing dute at 
" Westminster on the 18th Februaiy 1833." 

When we look back to the order of 1830, we find that order 
by its 3rd clause declaring and recognizing the power of the. 
Supreme Court except 'n the cases specified in its first and second 
clause. The order of 1835 by its secoad clause applies the 3rd 



124 

Deif^5 ^^^^^^ of tte order of 1830 to the District Courts. It follows 
J^ ■ therefore that the order of 1835 gave to the District Courts power 
until the end of the year 1839 to grant writs of habeas corpus, ex- 
cept in cases falling within the 1st and 2nd clauses of the order 
of 1830. 

The most favourable way in ivhich an argument could be 
drawn from these orders in support of an enduring and still exist- 
ing power as to writs of habeas corpus in the District Courts is 
perhaps as follows : " The Supreme Court as existing in 1830 had 
had no express power given to it as to writs of habeas carpus. It 
claimed and exercised that power as given by implication. The 
order of Council of 1830 recognised the existence in the Supreme 
Court of that implied power, but ordained that for a limited period 
Buch power should be subject to certain restrictions; so in 1885, 
when District Courts had come into existance having no, power as 
to writs of habeas arpus exjiressly given to them, but having (as 
we say) a claim to them by implication, came an order in council 
which recognized the existence in the District Courts of that implied 
power, but subjected the exercise of it to restricticns for a limited 
period. The restrictions were to be temporary: the recognition 
is vested ivi perpetuity." 

But in the first jjlace, there is no proof, there is not even rea- 
son to suspect that the District Courts had, between 1833 and 1835, 
been exercising or claiming the power to grant a habeas corpus ; 
whereas the Supreme Court had undoubtedly exercised thHt power 
from 1801 to 1*30 ; and (what is more important), there is a well- 
known rule of intei-pretation which we cannot and ought not tu 
disregard. It is the rule thatdirects effect to be given, if possible, to 
every ssntence and to every word in a Legislative instrument. What 
then is the meaning of the wor.ls " during the ci.ntimiiince <J' this 
present order" in the 2nd clause of the Order which provides that in 
all parts of the Order of 1830 in which the Supreme Court is 
mentioned, reference shall during the continuance nfthe present order 
be understood and betaken to be made to the Supreme Courtand the 
District Courts. According to the construction which must be put 
on the order for the purpose of raising the argument in it in favour 
of the power of the District Courts, thcss words of limitation are 
meaningless. It had already been declared that the nvival of the 
Order of 1830 should not enure beyond 1839. The restrictive 
parts of the Order of 1830 would therefore have expire;! at the end 
of 1M39, without the use of the special wor.'s which we are con, 
sidering. But the employment of those special words mike it 
clear that the enabling part of the order Wiis to be as limited in 
vitality asthe disabling. Until the 3 1 st December 1839, and no longer- 
the words, which declared the Supreme Court of 18 '10 to have 
power as to writs of habeas corpus, were to be construed as extend- 



126 

ing to District Courts. The Order in Council of 1835 cannot be 1861. 
re^iarded as more than a tem[)orary experiment in vesting a new l^^c. 5. 
power in the District Courts for a defined period ; and at the 
expiration of that period, it was not thought fit to renew the power. 

Viewing the Order of 1 835 as thus transitory in effect, we have 
not thought it necofsary to discuss the objection which the learned 
Queen's Advocate raise I during the argument against the vitality 
of that Order on constitutional grounds. 

There has been subsequent legislation on the subject of h ibeas 
corpus. In 184;-!, power w>is given to any Judge of the Supieaie 
('ourt to issue the writ at any time and at any place in the Island, 
and full power to grant writs of habeas ccrpus has been carefully 
assured to the Supreme Court by the Ordinance '2 of 1850, which 
in s )me respects varied its constitution. Several Ordinances have 
also been passed, which have modified the constitution of the Dis- 
trict Courts, but not a legislative syllable later than the Order iu 
Council of 1835 can be found which in any way ossociates the 
District Courts and writs of habeas carpvs. 

When on a review oil the whole subject, we spek and strive 
in favt.rem libeitutis to find reasons in support of the claim of the 
District Courts to grant this remedial writ, it seems to us that tlie 
chief arguments (besides that based on the order of 1835, which we 
dealt with in passing to avoid prolix repetition) for the present res- 
pondents' case, are: 

1st. The argument from analogy to be drawn from the 
course taken by the English Court of Common Ple.is iu Biithel's 
case. That Court thus resolved (though contrary tc) the opinion of its 
Chief Justice) that it had by innplication general power of granting 
writs of hubeas a,r/)iis irrespective of privilege. But in thiit case, 
there was 'much to inijily from, to which nothing analogous can be 
ft)und with respect to the District Courts. The Statute of 1 6 Car 
i. had put the Common Pleas on the same footing as the King's 
Bench us to certain specific writs of hi.be.is corpus and there were 
general words about discharge, or payment of fees, which the 
mijority of the Common Pleas judges construe 1 into the recogni- 
tion of a general ])ower. It is to be rcmembei-ed also that the 
Common Pleas was a BU|>erior Court of general jurisdiction in the 
realm ; and special stress was laid on this by the judges who in 
Bushel's case laid it down as a general principle, that if a subject 
of the King is brouiht before one of the King's superior Courts, 
and it appears that the impris:)nment is unlawful, the Court cannot 
suluo jiirumenti) sun remand him to that unjust imprisonment. 

^ud. An argument by way of analogy may be drawn from 
the fact of the Supreme Court of this Island having from 1801 to 
1830 exercised an implied power of issuing these writs, which 
power was ultimately expressly recognised. But there is no Char- 



126 

1861. tor or Regulation or order or Ordinance that gives to the District 
Deu. 5. Courts the express order of issuing writs of error or an express 
juris liction over oppressions, such as the Supreme Court had by 
the old Charter, and which has been above discussed. There was 
an argument als.) (which is urged by Sir Charles Marshall in his 
answers to the Commission) that it must have been iutended by the 
sovereign, in granting a Charter for the full administration of 
justice here, ti place somewhere the power of granting writs of 
h ibeas corpus, and that the natural depository of such power was 
the Supreme Court. Nothing of the kind can be urged in favour 
of the claim of the District Courts, in as ranch as the very Charter 
which called them into existence placed elsewhere the i)ower of 
granting those writs. And there is the coutinuilly recurring 
distinction between a Court with general jurisdiction over the Islaad 
and a Court with jurisdiction limited to a section of it. 

Lastly, there is the argument relied on iu the judgment of the 
Kanly District Court iu this very case, the argument that District 
Courts must have power to issue writs oihubeas curpus by implica- 
tion as ancillary to higher powers which are expressly vested in 
them. The learned Judge of the Kandy District Court refers to 
its jurisdiction over idiots and lunatics, over testamentary and 
miti-imonial matters, and urges that the duties of his Court in 
' these matters could not adequately be performed without power to 
issue this writ. 

We fail to perceive the strength of this reasoning. In the 
first place, it seems inaccurate to treat the " very hiu:h prerogative 
writ of habeas curpus " as inferior to any process or autboi'ity with 
which the District Court is expressly entrusted. Next, as to the 
necessity of such power as is now clamed to enable the District 
Courts to perform their duties" with regard to idiots and lunatics 
and as to matters testamentary or matrimonial. Assuredly the 
District Courts have as a matter of fact discharged these duties for 
iti years without issuing writs of hubens carpus, or at least with 
such I'are and exceptional issues as to be of no weight iu the argu- 
ment. With regard to idiots and lun itics, it may be observed 
that by the Regulation of 1833 all the powers that had been pos- 
sessed by the Provincial Courts are expressly vested in the District 
Courts; and by the 3rd spc'.ion of the Rules of Court of 1st 
October 1833 (confirmed by Ordinance 8 of 184H), the District 
Courts are directed to exercis2 this branch of ttie jurisdiction 
accnrJin.' to Regulation i of 1829. That Regulation empowered 
the Provincial Judge to give notice to the persons in whose custody 
any supposed idiot or lunatic was, or if no one had bpen in custody 
to the constable or headman of the division, to produce the body of 
the supposed idiot or lunatic before the Court on a day appointed, 
and a summary punishment by fine or im^^risonment is provided for 



127 

disobedience of sucTi order. We cannot see what need the District yJ^^^V 
Court has for the further power of issuing writ of habeas corpvs in Eec^ o- 
these cases. With regard to its testamentary and matrimonial 
jurisdiction, how can it be said to be in such extreme need of the 
power of issuing a habeas corpus as to acquire the. power by impli- 
cation, when the ecclesiastical courts in England have for 
centuries administered justice in these departments of the law with- 
out possessing the power that is arrogated here. The truth is that 
when a suit has been instituted in the District Court on any subject 
within its jurisdiction, the Court can make its orders in that suit 
and can secure obedience to them. But what is asked now is a 
general power of issuing a high [)rerogative writ, and of summarily 
deciding the most important matters of jiersonal right without 
any suit on tha subject being before the District Court at all. ^ If 
in the course of a suit or action in the District Court, any diffi- 
culty should arise curable only by the writ of habeas corpus, the 
writ can always be obtained from the Supreme Court or from 
one of its Judges. The analogy also of the right to issue writs 
of injunction tello directly against the present claim. The Dis- 
trict Courts having an equitable jurisdiction can, as a necessary 
part of equitable process, grant injunctions in the suits before 
them, but it is well established that they cannot grant an in- 
junction where no suit is pending. That general power can be 
exercised by the Supreme Court. 

We have dealt with one by one the arguments that seem 
fairly to arise in support of the respondents' contention. Each 
singly proves unsttisfactory, nor when we look at them collec- 
tively and think over their cumulative force do _ they succeed _ in 
convincing us that the respondent is right, or in even making 
us think the existence or non-existence of the alleged power 
inatt-^r of doubt. . 

We are quite clear that the District Courts have it not. Were 
we to decide as desired by the respondent, we should decide that a 
court of criminal authority can issue process in the course of 
which it must deal with committals for offences expressly set out 
of and above its jurisdiction: and that an inferior court might by 
Buch process try the validity of committals by this, its Supreme 
t'ourt. We should be giving this right to a mere local court that 
can only act and enfore its orders within its own limited area. 
Above all, we should be forgetful of all sound constitutional princi- 
ples if we were to uphold the present proceeding. Once more let ua 
remember (and Lord Mansfield's judgment in King v. Cowle, 2 Bur- 
rows «3'' may remind us) what in the eye of the law a proceeding by 
writ of habeas corpus is. The sovereign is supposed to be acting and 
inquiring why one of her subjects is deprived of his liberty. Here 
then we have an order of the District Court of Kandy before us by 



128 

1861. which the soverign is Bupposed to be acting and using: one of Her 
Dec. 5. highest prerogatives in an inferior and local court liable at ary 
time to be controlled by mandamus, procedendo or prohibitions irom 
this its yupreme Court and subject in all matters to the appellate 
jurisdiction of this the Supreme Court of this part of Her Majesty's 
dominions. 

The validity of an order which must be based in such an 
hypothesis cannot be established by mere argument of inference, of 
implication or of convenience, even if such arguments in its 
favour were far stronger of their kind than can be suggested here. 

Our unhesitating decision is that the District Courts of this 
Island possess no power to issue writs of, or in the nature of writs 
of, h.beiis coj'pns ad snbjiciendiim. 

The appeal is allowed and the order of the Court beloAv is set 
aside. 



186S. 

27th February. 

Present: — Steeling, J.y and Temple, J. 

C. E. Chavakachclieri, 1 /-y , c -, 

j^(j gg^ J- Lander v. Seedavy, 

This case was remanded for a new trial, in these terms : — j^g^ j.^^1 

The decision in this case not having been given for several 
months after the evidence, and the Court not having expressed a 
strong opinion of the strength of plaintiff's evidence, i+ would be 
more satisfactory to have the case reheard. 



14th May. 
Present : — Creasy, C. J., and Steeling, J. 
P. C. Caltura, 



•a,) 
J./ 



AT 1^/^oA r Fernando v. Fernando. 
No. 26639. ' 



This was charge under the toll Ordinance. On appeal pre- ~ 
ferred by the complainant, against an acquittal. Bust appeared for movaT of 
appellant. The Court affirmed the finding of the Court below, in bar — fine, 
these terms : — 

The toll-bar having been put up in a place different from that 
appointed by the Proclamation, no fine attaches. 



IVT * 1 741 8 ' I ■P*''*''* ■^^ Fernando et al. 

Dias for defendant appellant, Lorenz for plaintiff respondent, . , 

The facts material to this appeal are sufficiently indicated in notice of ten- 

the following judgment of the Court : — derofsecu- 

It appears on the proceedings that the District Court has dis- sec. 8, cl. 3, 

allowed the appeal because the defendant gave no notice to the (page 83), 
plaintiff of the tendering of security in appeal. 



1862. 
June 17. 



130 

The rule of Court, section 8, clause 3, does not require such 
notice in ordinary oases like the present, though notice is required 
by the 8th clause in the special case provided for by the 7th and 
8th clauses. 

In giving this decision the Supreme Court is anxious not to be 
understood as disapproving of the general practice which thfiy are 
informed prevails in the District Court of directing the appellant to 
give notice, and refusing to accept his securities- unless such notice 
has been given. It is the duty of the District Judge to be satisfied 
of the sufficiency of securities before they are accepted, and the 
District Judge may well be satisfied when the appellant has" wil- 
fully withheld the best possible means of having their sufficiency 
tested. But the present case, as it now comes before the Supreme 
Court, is not one where sureties have been refused for want of no- 
tice, but where although they have been accepted, the want of no- 
tice has afterwards been treated as a failure to comply with a sta- 
tutory condition as to the right of appeal. 



dth June. 
Present: — Creasy, C. J., Steeling J., and Temple, J. 

^'-^0 148*34^' I '^**''""* "'PP'^ ^" ^"^'^^y^- 
DilatorineRS ^^^ Court in sending the case back for a re-trial, commented 

practice of as follows on the dilatoriness of proceedings : — 

The Supreme Court observes with very great regret the long 
and repeated delays in the proceedings in this case. A Court of 
Bequests cause, which ought to be summarily and cheaply disposed 
of, is protracted over a period of nearly four years, and it is then 
determined in a manner which compels the Supreme Court to send 
it back auain for trial. 

Specially the Supreme Court notes with reprehension the 
practice of adjourning cases merely on account of the parties not 
being leady or of the absence of Proctors. 



adjourning 
cases 



17ih June. 
Present: — Ceeast, C. J., Sterling J., an-d Temple, J. 
In re the application of Aysa Natohia for a writ of habeas corpus. 
Haheaas The following is the order of the Court : — 

e.orpv.s— rpjjjg jg g, second application for a writ of habeas corpus. The 

custody of g^^^ application was made by the petitioner Aysa Natchia to 
i^h^ iinds Mr. Justice Sterling. She then stated that sKe was the consm of 



131 

Pattoo Muttoo, an orphan child of tender years, who had been un- 1862. 
lawfully taken away from her, and who was detained from her by Jrne 17. 
Don Cartalies Vidahn Aratchy. — 

Oh these statements, a writ was granted. The parties appeared °_^onsent of'^ 
before the Court and the matter was carefully investigated. relative &c. 

It appeared that the mother of the child, a moorish woman, died 
in destitution and extreme misery while travelling along the Kandy 
Eoad, near the house of a Singhalese man, Don Cartalies Vidahn 
Aratchy, who is a person of good m.eans and of great respectability. 
The child Pattoo Muttu, then a mere infant, was with it? mother 
when the woman died ; and the little creature was left by the 
roadside utterly desolate and unprotected. Don Cartalies and his 
wife, from motives of the most laudable humanity, took the orphan 
child into their house, fed it, clothed it, educated it, and have main- 
tained it with all the care and kindness that a parent could shew 
towards its own offspring. The present applicant and the Mahome- 
tan friends buried the dead mother, as they take care to inform 
this Court, and were perfectly aware of the condition in which the 
child was left, and of Don Carthalies taking it to his house. But 
none of them then claimed the child or offered to provide 
for it, or made any objection to its being taken by Don Carthalis. 
These things hapjiened not some months ago, as is untruly asserted 
in the petition, but some years ago ; and during all that time no 
objection was made to the child remaining in Don Carthalis' family 
till the present year, when the child has nearly arrived at [lubevty, 
and is much above .six years old, the age falsely assigned to it by 
the petitioner. 

It further appeared that the petitioner is a person in abject 
and squalid poverty, utterly unable to maintain the child in comfort 
or even in sufficiency and decency. 

Under these circumstances, Mr. Justice Sterling refused, and 
the Supreme Court considers rightly, to order the child to be 
delivered up to this applicant. 

A petition was then presented by a number of moormen, in 
which they endeavoured to treat the matter as one affecting the 
credit and the religion of the Mahometan part of the population, 
and requested that they should ha,ve the child delivered up to 
them. This most improper and unwise petition. was of course re- 
jected, without the reprimand which the petition deservsd, but 
they were kindly informed by Mr. Justice Sterling, that if the 
applicant Aysa Natchia thought herself aggrieved by his former 
decision, she should petition the full Court on its re-assembling, and 
that the subject should then be re-considered. 

She has now petitioned accordingly, but the attempt to make 
the matter a question as to the social position and the religious 
feelings of the Mahometans generally is still persevered in ; and it 



132 

1862. is asserted that " until this child is restored to the petitioner or 
June 17. gome one of her own nation or kindred, their tribe will remain 
degraded, their religion derided, and their society and respect most 
awfully degraded." Nothing could be more untrue or unwarrant- 
able than these assertions and the insinuaJtions which they are meant 
to convey, that the Judge of this Court, who refused to deliver up 
the child to the present applicant, was influenced in that refusal by 
the circumstance of the applicant and her friends being of Moorish 
race and holding the Mahometan creed. 

Except in certain specified cases where we are bound to have 
regard to the religion of parties, because part of their customary 
laws, according to which they deal with one another, depends on 
their religion, we know here no distinction of- persons, what- 
ever may be their pedigree or their faith. All Her Majesty's sub- 
jects of every race, of every clime, of every creed are equal in the 
eye of the law. And with regard to the Moormen in particular, 
whatever cause the Moormen of Ceylon may have had in former ages 
to complain of the oppression or intolerance of the rulers of this 
island, there has not been the slightest.ground for such complaint 
ever since Ceylon has been under the British Government. Nor 
does it become them or any of them to speak of .themselves, as has 
been done in these proceedings, as a degraded tribe, when it is well 
known that, as a class, they are generally, and the court believes 
deservedly, respected on account of their intelligence and their in- 
dustry and commercial energy. But the Suprpme Court decides 
nothing here about Moors or Singhalese, about followers of Buddha 
or disciples of Islam. Thg Court deoides that in any case where a 
child's relative has consented to that child being taken at a time 
of its extreme need by a person, who has maintained it, and is 
willing to continue to maintain it, with all proper kindness and in 
comfort and respectability, and when that relative after a long 
lapse of time comes forward, at a very suspicious period of a female 
child's, existence to claim possession of it, though utterly unable to 
maintain it, this court will not misuse the right of habeas corpus to 
take the child from a good and virtuous home and deliver it over to 
misery and want, probably to vice, and certainly to grievous tempta- 
tions. The application is refused. 



133 

19th June. jI^^ 

Present :— Creasy C. J., Sterling, J. and Temple, J. ~ 

D. C. Galle,l , , „ . 

No. 17665 I ■^'ndres v. Bastiana. 

D. C. Galle,) ^ , . 
No. 19934. f Endns v. Dinto. 

Tlie plaintiffs in these cases prayed for restitution of conjugal Jurisdiction 
rights, in that defendants did " without just cause refuse to live «* District 
and cohabit " with the plaintiffs, their husbands, and to render Court-resti- 
them the conjugal rights due. *]f - °^X' 

The District Judge entered up judgment as prayed. 

On appeal Dias for appellants, Rust for respondents. The 
Supreme Court set aside the judgments and dismissed the suits in 
these terms: — 

These were suits for the restitution of conjugal rights ; and 
before pxamining the special facts and merits of each case, it 
became necessary to consider the general question whether a suit 
for the restitution of conjugal rights is maintainable in our courts 

The counsel who argued in support of the jurisdiction refer- 
red the Supreme Court to cl. 24 of the Charter of 1833, to the 
supplemental Charterof 1843, and to the Ordinance No. 12 of 1843 
as proving that the District Courts have jurisdiction in matrimo- 
nial suits. This was clearly established, but it at the same time 
was conceded that the matrimonial suits spoken of in the Charter 
and the Ordinance are such matrimonial suits only as were main- 
tainable in Holland under the Roman Dutch Law. 

The question was therefore narrowed down to an enquiry 
whether a suit for the restitution of conjugal rights was main- 
tainable in the old Dutch Courts, and the hearing of these cases was 
purposely adjourned so as to give time for full and careful search 
among the" records of our tribunals and among the Dutch juriss 
for authorities on the subject. 

The Supreme Court feels assured that the learned counsel who 
argued in support of the jurisdiction has made that search with all 
possible deligence and sagacity; and the result is that not a single 
decision, precedent or dictum can be cited to shew that any suit 
of the kind is or ever was maintainable under the Roman Dutch 
Law. _ Those processes of the Ecclesiastical Law, which has ex- 
isted some centuries, processes by which one party to an unhappy 
marriage exacts the compulsory cohabitation of a reluctant, and 
perhaps loathing, partner, are not such as this Court should be 
anxious or astute to introduce into this colony, though it should of 



Voi 



1862. course have bowed to authorities, if authorities could have been 

June 20. found to prove that those things are part of our law. In the 

absence of all authority in favour of the jurisdiction, the Supreme 

Court holds that it does not exist, and that a suit for the restitution 

of conjugal rights is not maintainable in Ceylon. 



^Oth June. 

Present: — Cklasy, C. J., Sterling, J., and Temple, J. 

ippeal peti- -f» ^e G. W. Dharmaratne, a Proctor of the District Court of 

tion — false, Caltura. 

and defama- The following judgment of the Supreme Court sets out the 

tor J matter facts of this matter :• — 

misooudurt T^iiis was an appeal against a decision of the Commissioner of 

of proctor the Court of Requests of Pantura. 

Dutyof-Judge On hearing this appeal, the judgment was affirmed, but cir- 

as to reocord- cumstances appeared in the petition of appeal, and in the report 
g I „ ce. ^£ j.-|^g Commissioner, which made it necessary to enquire into the 
conduct of the Proctor and of the defendant in placing such alle- 
gations on the petition. 

The material parts of the petition of appeal are as follows: 
" The appellant feels exceedingly sorry that he is constrained to 
remark to your lordships that the examination of tlie plaintiff was 
not properly recorded, that part of the respondents' examination 
which is most beneficial to the defence being entirely omitted. 
The appellant begs here to insert the very phrases that are wanting. 
The respondent, on being questioned as to the southernmost 
portion above alluded to, said that the whole land in question 
belonged to nine brothers; that Anthony Fernando, who is one of 
the said brothers, received the southernmost portion in gift from 
his brothers, that the southernmost portion was transferred over to 
him by his father-in-law the sa.id Anthony Fernando, that no deed 
of gift accompanied the bill of sale in his favour, and th it Anthony 
Fernando received no deed of gift from his brothers for the said 
portion of land. These two last phrases, with respect to the deed 
of gift, are entirely omitted to the great disadvantage of the 
appellant. That questions respecting the said deed of gift were 
put to the respondent, that they were answered by him, and that 
the particular attention of the Court was drawn to such answers, 
can be proved by affidavits if your lordships will deem such proof 
necessary." 

" With due deference to the court below, the appellant begs to 
say that a certain title deed and a figure of survey, which he 
allowed the court to read, were improperly illegally and forcibly 



IS.") 

■withheld from him by the court, and they were filed in the case 1862. 

contrai*y to his wishes. Your lordships will further mark that June 20. 

this appellant had been served with no notice to produce either the — 
survey or the title-deed." 

Eespecting thesethe commissioner reports as follows: 

"In forwarding the case No. 2668 of this Court, I have the 
honor to draw the attention of the Hon'ble the Judges to two 
deliberately untrue assertions made in the petition of appeal filed 
by ^ the defendant. They occur in the 4th and 6th paras, of the 
petition. 

" The first assertion is to the efEect that certain statements 
m.Kle by the plain tif£ are noi recorded although the ■ particular 
attention of the court was drawn to them. This is not true. No 
statement to which the attention of the court was drawn is omitted. 
The examination of the plaintifE was short, and every statement 
that appeared to the court to be at all relevant was taken down, 
whether attention was drawn to it or not. On looking over the 
record, I find several statements which are alleged to be omitted 
taken down in the form they were conveyed to the court. The 
fact that the southernmost portion of the land was transferred to 
the plaintiff by his father-in-law was repeatedly alluded to in the 
course of the trial. That there was no deed of gift in favour of 
the latter, or that the plaintiff knew of none was also admitted. 
The only points in issue in the case are what is the defined portion 
out of which the Fiscal sold ^th, and what is the southern 
boundary ? These being the issues raised, I do not see how a state- 
ment to the efEect that the plaintiff's father-in-law had no deed of 
gift for the southernmost portion can be considered in the slightest 
degree material. 

" But if when such statement was made, the defendant's 
Proctor had in any way called the attention of the court to it and 
expressed a wish to have it recorded, I would have gladly done so. 

" The assertion in the 6th para, is a gros.s and ])alpable false- 
hood The title deed was of the defendant's own accord tendered 
to the court after the examination of his third and last witness, 
and when he was asked whether he had any other evidence to 
offer. He was distinctly questioned whether he wished to have 
the document read in evidence and a note made to that efEect, and 
he said that he wished it to be so read. After the rising of the 
court, the chief clerk communicated to me the defendant's wish to 
have his deed back, and added that he was unable to return it 
until after the usual time for appeal had elapsed; and this was 
explained to the defendant. 

" In connection with this remark, I may be permitted to 
observe that the defendant gave the Proctor on the opposite side a 



1802. great deal of trouble by not answering questions repeatedly put to 
JuM 20. him, and by evading others during the greater part of hia examina- 
tion, which occupied considerably more than an hour, and the 
impression left by him was certaiilly not a favourable one. 
Mr. Dbarmaratne either on this account, or in consequence of a 
delicacy he may naturally have felt in conducting the defendant's 
case after having (very recently) as notary attested the two docu- 
ments upon which the defendant claims, and with regard to which 
the plaintiff suggested that they were not bona fide deeds but got 
up for the purposes of this case, declined to appear for the defen- 
dant during the remainder of the trial against the express wish 
of the coui-t, 

"Although the defendant alone signs the appeal petition, I am 
fully satisfied with that it was drawn out by his Proctor Mr. Dbar- 
maratne. It appears to me strange that a member of the legal 
profession should be so unscrupulous as to make assertions which 
he knows to be untrue, and that he should attempt to evade the 
responsibility by throwing it on his misguided client. 

" I trust such notice will be taken of this matter by the 
Supreme Court as will effectually prevent the recurrence of similar 
conduct, and impress on Mr. Dharmaratne the necessity of having 
a greater regard for truth." 

As it was intimated to us by the counsel for the appellant 
that the Proctor would not dispute or conceal the fact of his 
having drawn the appeal, we caused the Proctor to appear before 
us, in the first instance, at chambers, on the 12th of this month. 

Pie was cautioned that he might decline to answer any ques- 
tion, the answer to which might criminate him, and after that 
caution he admitted that he drew the appeal. 

His explanation as to the charges against the commissioner 
contained in the 4th para, of unfairly suppressing evidence favour- 
able to the defendant, although the particular attention of the Court 
was drawn to them, was that he, the Proctor, repeated the words 
of the witness, and that he (the Proctor) considers this to be a 
drawing the attention of the commissioner to it. 

With regard to the 6th para of the appeal petition whicb 
charges the commissioner with having improperly obtained and 
withheld from thf defendant certain documents, the Proctor stated 
that he the Proctor had left the Court before this part of the 
proceedings, and that he drew this part of the petition on the ins- 
truction and representations of bis client. ,He added that he took 
no pains to ascertain the truth of these representations, he (the 
Proctor) being then sick, aad the time for appeal nearly out. 

He produced before us among other afiidavits one by the 
defendant. 

" C. Joseph Fernando maketh oath and saith that he is the 



137 

defendant in case C. R. Pantura 2668, and after Mr. Dharmaratne, 1862. 
wto appeared for the deponent, declined conducting the defence, June 20. 
and left the Court, the presiding commissioner wished to read a 
certain title-deed and a figure of survey that were in the possession 
of the deponent, who accordingly allowed him to read them. 

" The deponent further saith that he did not mean to file 
them in the case, nor did he move that they be filed, but the com- 
missioner aforesaid very improperly withheld them from him and 
filed them in the case against his wish. 

" The deponent further saith that he made repeated applica- 
tions then and there for the said title deed and the figure of survey, 
but the said commissioner would not return them." And he stated 
that he drew that affidavit. 

_ It now became necessary for us to have the defendant before 
this Court, and accordingly he was directed to appear to-day. 

Meanwhile the substance of the proceedings of the 12th June 
were communicated to the commissioner, and he has sent the follow- 
ing further report on the matter : — 

" With reference to the explanation of Mr. Dharmaratne that 
he repeated certain statements to the Court after the Interpreter, 
I have to observe that this is frequently done by Proctors during 
the examination of parties and witnesses, without any wish that 
what they repeat should be recorded. Whether in this instance, 
Mr. Dharmaratne repeated the words of the Interpreter I do not 
know, but I am sure that the attention of the Court was not 
pointedly drawn to the statements. Mr. Dharmaratne left *he 
Court before the document referred to was handed in by the 
defendant. Whether the statements regarding it were made on 
the authority of the defendant, or whether they originated with 
his Proctor I cannot take upon myself to say." 

Two matters arise here for consideration. Did the Proctor 
insert a wilfully false statement in the petition of appeal, that 
the commissioner omitted to record material portions of evidence 
to which the particular attention of the Court had been drawn ? 

The materiality of this evidence may be matter of doubt. The 
Proctor may have sincerely, though erroneously, thought it 
material ; and the Judge may have similarly sincerely, though erro- 
neously, have thought it irrelevant. It is a mere vulgar error that 
a Judge is bound to write down all that is asked by advocates and 
all that is said by witnesses. I use the words of Lord Denman in 
saying that it is the duty of the Judge to take down only that 
which is material and relevant. Ofcourse nothing should be 
omitted that is even likely to be material and relevant, and al- 
most every Judge would take care to make a note of a particular 
statement, if distinctly requested to do so by the advocate, unless 
indeed that advocate had previously abused the confidence of the 



138 

1862. Judge in the honor of the advocate and in the advocate's implied 
June 20. assurance that the matter which then appeared irrelevant would 
— ultimately prove relevant and important. 

Did the Proctor on this occasion, as he asserts in the petition, 
particularly draw the attention of the court to such answers ?• 

This is a most unsatisfactory explanation of the Proctor which 
he now gives, when he, says that he the Proctor, repeated the 
answers. The habit of Advocates repeating the answers of wit- 
nesses is too common, and it is done by many of them whether the 
evidence is important or trifling. It is frequently a habit acquired 
by those who wish to spin out their examination or crosi-examina- 
tion, and who are not sharpwitted enough to follow up one ques- 
tion rapidly by another : while repeating one answer, they are really 
thinking over the next question. It is a habit which the best 
English Judges have often censured, and tvhioh one very eminent 
circuit Judge, the late Baron Guemey, never would allow. I never 
should suppose that the rejietition of an answer by an advocate 
was equivalent to a request to me to note it down ; and it is 
difficult to believe here any member of the j)rofession could so 
consider it. But it is barely possible that Mr. Dharmaratne may 
have thought so ; and on this part of the matter, we would not 
decidedly condemn him of wilful falsehood in the petition which 
he drew, though he is still guilty of gross misconduct in having 
preferred such a heavy charge against the Judge of the €ourt in 
which he is a practitioner, on such very slight and frivolous 
grounds about his own mistaken fancy as to the natural effect of 
the repetition of a witness's answer. 

AVe now come to the charge of falsely and wilfully asserting 
in the petition that the commissioner obtained possession of docu- 
ments from the defendant unfairlv, used the documents improperly, 
and detained than wrongfully. 

The gross untruth of the assertions is clear. But we have to 
find out with whom the blame rests of having placed such 
- scandalous, false, and defamatory matter on the proceedings of 
Court. Does the blame rest with the Proctor, the defendant, or 
with both ? We think it clear that the Proctor >vas ■ not in Court 
^vhen the document* were vohuitarily produced by the defendant, 
^' nd read in evidence at the defendant's express request-; but the 
defendant, who certainly has told us an untruth to-day, may 
have told his Proctor an untruth upon the matter, when he went 
to liis Proctor to get the petition of apjjeal drawn. But it does 
not appear that the Proctor took the ti-ouble to enquire into the 
matter, Avhich he ought to have done before he drew up such a 
( harge. He has used before us an affidavit, which he admits that' 
he, the Proctor, drew, in which the defendant assorts that he did 
not meiin these documents to be filed. AVe have no doubt that 



139 



this affidavit correctly represents what the defendant told his 
Proctor on the subject ; but whatever the ignorance of the defen- 
dant may have been as to the meaning • of filing documents in a 
case, the Proctor must have known the meaning of those terms, 
and ought not to have drawn up such a petition without careful 
enquiry, not only from the defendant, but from others, whether the 
defendant had or had not consented to the docu.ment3 being read in 
evidence. The record itself shews that the defendant moved that 
the documents should be read. If the Proctor was too ill to make 
enquiry, he ought not to have drawn up such a petition, especially 
as there was another Proctor who had acted in the case. Taking 
the most lenient possible view of the case as afEects Mr. Dharmaratne, 
we consider he has been guilty of gross and culpable professional 
misconduct and mark our disapprobation pf that misconduct by 
suspending him from being, or acting"_as, a proctor for the term of 
one calendar month from this date. 

With regard to the defendant, C. Joseph Fernando, whatever 
may be his ignorance of technical proceedings in Court, we con- 
sider he has been guilty of wilful and mc.licious falsehood in con- 
cealing and denying the fact that he was asked whether he wished 
to have the documents in question read in evidence, and that it 
was read in evidence at his express desire. We consi.ler that in 
presenting to the Supreme Court a petition containing the wilfully 
false, scandalous and defamatory charges contained in'jthe 6th para., 
he has been guilty of a contempt of this Court, and we sentence 
him for that contempt to pay a fine of £2 (two pounds), or in 
default to be copirnitted to the gaol of Colombo for a. term of 
one week. • 



1862. 
June 26. 



26th June. 

Present : — Ckkast, C. J., Sterling, J. and Temple, J. 

D. C. Kandy, ) In re Petition of appeal of Basenruke Nilema,' 
No. 33585. J defendant in the said case, 

The following order of Court is explicit as to the facts of this Petition of 
matter :— appeal— 

Bcandalous 

We have each of us carefully examined the petition of and defama- 
appeal in this case, the District Court Judge's letter respecting it, ^°^J matter, 
and the proceedings at the trial, not with the view of forming any 
opinion on the merits, which would be premature and improper,but 
in order to ascertain whether the petition' of appeal, or any part 
of it, is so scandalous, defamatory or impertinent as to make it 
unfit to remain in the proceedings. We all concur regretting the 



liO 

1862. general tone of the petition, sanctioned as it is by tlie names of a 
June, 26. Proctor and two Advocates. We also concur in considering that 
— there is one passage in the petition so scandalous and defamatory 

that it cannot be allowed to stand. 

With respect to the mode of dealing with the rest of the 
petition, there has been considerable diversity of opinion among 
us, but we have ultimately agreed to follow the mildest course that 
any of us has thought sufficient. ^ 

The sentence specially referred to and complained of by the 
District Jvidge occurs at the end of the following passas;e : — 

" The District Court has declared that it cannot believe the 
execution of this deed, because she (that is, the plaintifE) did not ob- 
ject, though left utterly destitute. Prom what part of the evidence 
the District Judge discovered this, your humble appellants is 
at loss to discover. Not one word was uttered at the trial, and 
your appellant cannot conceive how the District Judge came to 
state as a fact that which is well-known to be untrue." 

The last sentence of this part of the appeal is in every sense 
of the term scandalous and defamatory. We hope the drawers 
and signers of this petition did not mean to impute wilful un- 
truth to the District Court Judge, and we have given them the 
benefit of that hope. But such language, however it may be inter- 
preted, is grossly improper. 

Had the District Court Judge been in error in this matter, 
and had it been necessary for the petitioner to point out that error 
to the Supreme Court specifically, that might have been done in 
proper language. But the evidence shews quite enough to warrant 
that remark of the learned Judge, of the value of which remark 
we here decide nothing, but which ought not to have been the 
subject in the petition of such grossly offensive comment. 

We direct that the words " and your appellant cannot conceive 
how the District Court came to state as a fact that which iswell- 
knovm to be untrue," be expunged by the Eegistrar 'from the 
petition of appeal as scandalous and defamatory and unfit to 
Remain on the proceedings of the Court. With regard to the 
petition genei-ally, our present intention is to deal with it, if the 
result of the case make it necessary, under the 3id clause of the 
rules of Court of the 12th of December 1843. 



141 

3rd July. 1862. 
Present : — Ceeast, C. J., Sterling, J., and Temple, J, 



D. C. Galle,) ^,7 r o 

No. 20,283.} ^^""^ ^- ^"''■ 

D. C. Galle,! „ „, , 

No. 20,286!} ^o''^-^^<^<=^- 



The facts are sufficiently indicated in the following judgment Shipping— 
of tlie Supreme Court : — delivery of 

These were cross-actions between a shipowner and a merchant, ship's^side— 
and the main point in dispute was whether the shipowner was en- payment of 
titled to require payment of freight as the goods were delivered freight — 
into the merchant's boats over the ship's side, or whether he was demurrage- 
bound to deliver the whole cargo into the boats and wait till it was 
brought on shore, before he had his freight. 

The merchant had by a charter-party dated 16th April, 1861, 
chartered the ship to fetch a cargo of rice from Calcutta to Colom- 
bo to be unladen there or at Galle, or part at each place, according 
to instructions. The dispute arose as to the part which ( as was 
agreed ) the ship was to deliver at Galle. The parts of the char- 
ter-party material for the decision of these cases are as follows: 

" Freight to be paid at and after the rate of one rupee and 
four annas per bag of rice of two maunds and light freight at 
£ 2.10 per ton as per Calcutta scales of tonnage on the quantity 
safely delivered. Twelve w> rking days for loading in Calcutta, 
and fifteen working days for discharging at Galle or Colombo, in^ 
eluding both places, but exclusive of time occupied in changing 
ports to commence from the time the master gives notice that he is 
ready to receive and discharge cargo, or demurrage to be paid at 
£ 20 per day for every day over and above the said working days. 
The cargo to be taken alongside and to be taken fi-om the ship's 
tackle at the port of discharge free of risk and expense to the 
ship." 

The ship delivered part of her . cargo at Colombo, and then 
proceeded to Galle by instructions to deliver the residue. Various 
quarrels took place between the parties into which it is unnecessary 
to enter, but at last after some cargo had been delivered, the 
master required the merchant to pay daily the freight for the 
amount pi cargo delivered each day over the ship's side into the 
merchants boats, and refused to deliver more cargo on the merchant's 
refusing to pay on delivery as required. The question is, was the 
master justified in such requirement and refusal. The Supreme 
Court think that he was. 

As a general principle, when there is no express stipulation as 



14:2 

1862. to the time and manner of payment of freight, the master is not 

July, 3. bound to part with the goods until his freight is paid. This is 

— expressly laid down in Abbott on Shipping, the highest aiithority 

on the subject, and the same doctrine in laid down in perhaps the 

next highest authority, Kent's Commentaries, vol. 3. p. 299. 

It was urged on behalf of the merchant in this case that where 
the mode and time of paying freight are left uncertain by the con- 
tract, the custom of the port of delivery is to prevail ; and sonle evi- 
dence, though very feeble, was given that it is not usual at Galle to 
pay freight till the whole cargo is brought on shore. Smith's Mercan- 
tile Law was cited on this point. His words are " the manner of 
delivery of the goods, and , consequently the period at which the 
master ceases to be responsible for them, depends, in the absence of 
agreement, on the custom of the place." Mr. Smith cites a case 
from Espinasse, which by no means bears out his text; but even 
if it did, that text has no application here. In this case, the 
charterparty provides that " the cargo is to be taken alongsidt and 
to be taken from the ship's tackle at the port of discharge free of 
risk and expense to the ship." And the bills of lading provide - 
that the cargo is to be taken from the ship's tackle, at the risk and 
expense of the consignee and a receipt to be granted on board. ■ It 
is further in evidence, that an agent of the merchant's was on board 
of the vessel during the days on which the delivery went on, and 
that he gave receipts, though the form of those receipts does not ap- 
pear on the face of the proceedings before us. The Supreme Court 
thinks it clear that in this case, it was intended that the master should 
deliver, and the merchant receive, at the ship's side; that on such 
delivery and receipt, the master ceased to be responsible for the 
goods. It is clear on all authority and common- sense that he had 
a right to be paid before he gave up his lien. 

It has been said on the other side, that it was impossible for 
the merchant to examine the condition and weight of the bags of 
rice as they came out of the ship. 

No evidence was given of this. The contrary would appear 
to have been the case, from the fact of the merchant having for 
several days before the quarrel sent his agent on board to superin- 
tend the delivery and acceptance of the cargo from the ship into the 
boats; and even if there had been any difficulty of the kind, it was 
one which the merchant brought upon himself by the mode in 
which he contracted. 

As the Supreme Court holds that the merchant's refusal to 
pay on delivery was wrongful, it must hold that his omission to 
unload and receive the cargo on the proper term was wrongful also, 
and that the part of the judgment of the Court below which fixes 
him with demurrage is correct. Objection has been made to that 
part of the judgment which gives interest on the dumurrage, and 



it is argued that demurrage is in the nature of damages, so that 1862. 
interest is not to be given on it. The Supreme Court thinks that July 15. 
this objection is well founded. — 

The verdict in the case of Ease v. Black is therefore to be 
reduced by disallowing the interest on the demurrage. In other 
respects, the judgment of the District Court in both actions are 
affirmed. 



15 th July. 

Present : — Creasy, C. J., Sterling, J. and Temple, J. 

^ ■ -iKJ^i ' > Kourale v. Dingery Menica et al. 

The Supreme Court in remanding the case for re-hearing Mesne profits, 
said : — 

A party may sue for mesne profits even though in a former 
suit for the land he declared for mesne profits, but gave no evi- 
dence thereon. But he can only recover undeV the 9th clause of 
Ordinance No. 8 of 1834. See District Court BaduUa 14674. 
Supreme Court C. M. 27th May 1857. 



N TiHmi '( Wieretoonge y. Sinneperumal Chelly. 

Per curiam : — Aflirmed. The Supreme Court regret to observe K;,7bt to 
the frequency of appeals about the right to begin and the order in ^^^ . 'V 
Vi'hich j/arties are to call evidence. These and all similar ma'tera ^P' 
as to- the conduct of a cause are things in which the .presiding ofp:es- 
Judge ought to be invested with very large discretionary jniwers ; Ju " 
and the Supreme Court will not interfere with the mode in which 
those discretionary powers have been exercised, except in, cases of 
gross error and of serious hardship arising from such error. 



■creiion 



18th July. 
Prei^ent: — Ckeasy, C. J., Sterling, J. and Temple, J, 
P. C. Negombo 



No. 203. - ^"■'''" ^- '^'■'™- 



} 

On appeal an-ainst an acquittal, the Court affirmed the order. Toll, evasion 
as follows :— "l-?^- J 9* 



The toll keeper [who is the complainant] seems to entirely xgei.'rcl )7 
misuudtrstand the 17th clause of Ordinance 22 of 1861. The of Ord. 4 of 



Old. -2 of 

il, [cl. 

Ord. 4. 

1867.] 



144 

1862. words " not being a public highway" are to be read in conjunction 
July 22. with the word "land," and not with the wjrd "road," which 
means here the turnpike road itself. 

The clause is intended to prevent the evasion of payment of 
toll by a trick, which is doubtless as common here as in England. 
A man who has used a turnpike road tries to avoid paying toll, by 
turning of£ the turnpike road when he gets near the toll-gate 
and skulking round the toll-station till he he can get back at the 
turnpike road on the other side of the toll-bar. For this he is very 
properly made liable to a fine. If there is a public highway 
running out of the turnpike road, a traveller may turn ofE into that 
public highway without being liable ; but if he shirks the toll, by 
turning off the turnpike road over any adjacent land, not being the 
soil of a public highway, he is liable to the penalty. 



Mahometan 
Law — cus- 
tody of child 
— liability 
of father to 
maintain it. 



22nd, July. 
Present : — Cbeasy, C. J., Steblino, J., and Temple, J 



D. C. Colombo, 
No. 29370, 



C. E. 

No. 



Colombo, 
9370. 






Hadji Marihar v. Ahamado Lebbe. 



Ama Lebbe v. Mamona Lebbe. 



The following is the judgment of the Supreme Court : — 

The Supreme Court thinks that the plaintiffs in both these 
actions are entitled to succeed. With respect to the law, the Sup- 
reme Court think, 

1. that the grandmother of a Mahometan child is entitled to 
the custody of the child on the mother's death ; and 

2. that the obligation of providing for the child's main- 
tenance is paramount on the father, altljough the grandmother has the 
child in her custody, and although the father wishes to have the child 
in his own. 

The right of the grandmother to the custody of the child is 
given on the child's behalf, not on behalf of the grandmother. It 
is the child's privilege. The remark therefore of the learned Com- 
missioner in the Court of Bequests case, about those who chose to 
exercise a privilege being bound to take it with its accompanying 
burden, seems to the Supreme Court inapplicable here. 

Some difficulty arose in the District Court from the action 
being brought, not by the grandmother, but by the uncle, who in 
fact lived in the house with the grandmother and the child, and 
provided the necessary funds. That difficulty disappears when the 



14,- 



case is considered thus. The plaintiff funclc) finds the child in 
the proper place for the child to be in, i. e., in its grandmother's 
custody. The plaintiff, as the child wants necessaries, provides 
them. The plaintiff turns to his father, who is under the para- 
mount duty of maintaining his child so supported, to repay him. 
The Supreme Court think he has a right to do so, and that there is 
sufficient quasi ohligalio ex contractu to make an action sustainable. 
In the District Court case, the Supreme Court thinks that no 
deduction should he made on account of the alleged receipt by plain- 
tiff of the profits of the house which belongs to the child. In the 
words of the Mahometan authority which has been cited : " the 
money of the little child should not be expended, but kept till it 
comes of age." 



186:.', 
August 5. 



6t}i August, 
Present: — Creasy C. J. and Templf J. 



D, 



C. Jaffna, 
No. 11493 



:} 



Lindsay v. Dunlop. 



The Supreme Court remanded the case in these terms:— 

The District Judge ought not to have made an order as to 
the right to begin, and then suspended the proceedings to remit an 
appeal against such order. 

In order to prevent a second appeal as to the right to begin in 
this suit, the Supreme Court wish to draw the attention of the 
District Judge to a case reported in Austin's Rep p. 200, in which 
the effect of admissions in examinations and the proper course to 
take as to the order of proof are very fully explained. 



Evidence — 

Right to 

begin — onus 

— appeal. 



D. C. Negombo, i 
No 419. I 



Caloo Nuide v. Perera 



The Court, in setting aside the judgment appealed against, said,- 

The notes as to prescription are admirably laid down by Chief 
Justice Serjeant Eough in a judgment given in D. C. Caltura 
28S9 : " There are," says he, "two points regarding the law of 
prescription that should be always well borne in mind : the first, 
that a possessor is always presumed to hold in his own right and as 
proprietor until the contrary be demonstrated. The second that 
the contrary being once established, and it being shown that 



Prescriptioa- 



Ni 



18C2. tlie posaession commenced by virtue of some otlier title, suoli 
August, 14. as that of tenant or planter, then the possessor is presumed to have 
continued to hold on the same terms, until he distinctly proves 
that his title has been changed." 



14th Aiigtist. 
Present: — Creasy, C. .1. and Temple, J., 

"NT 9 4.77 ( Odapalate A'ofle V. Falle Aratchy. 

The following judgment of the Supreme Court sets out the 
facts of the case : — 

Kandyan In this case the defendant was sued for land tax on certain 

•territory— lands within the Kandyan territory. The defendant pleaded his 
headman s exemption as a headman. It appeared that he was headman for 
Proclamation ^ district in which these lands are situate. 

of 21st Nov. The question was whether the exemption given by the Pro- 

1818. cl. 23. clamation of 21st November 1818, extends to all lands (at least, 

to all lands in the Kandyan territory) whereof a headman is 

possessed; or only to his lands in that district for which he is 

appointed headman. 

The words of the clause in question (§ 23.) are as follows: " all 
lai^.ds belonging to chiefs holding office, either of the superior or 
inferior class, and of inferior headman, shall during the time they 
are -in office be free of duty." 

Does this mean that a personal immunity from taxation, so 
far as land tax is concerned, shall be granted to chiefs and head- 
man, while in office ? Or does it mean, not that all their lands 
shall be free, but only such lands as be in the district for which 
they serve. 

We think that the first of these interpretations is correct. 

The words of the Ordinance are that '• all lands belonging to 
chiefs &c." shall be free. There is nothing in the context to 
curtail the force of the words " all lands," and we inust give them 
their natural construction. This opinion is confirmed by looking 
at the 28th and 29th clauses, which seem clearly to treat the 
immunity fromi taxation given to the chiefs as a personal immunity 
and not as an immunity given to the lands which they hold in the 
district where they bear office. 

The 23rd section evidently means to treat chiefs and head- 
man on 'the same principle as to relief from land tax; and therefore 
any argument deduced from other parts of the Ordinance in favour 
of the extended immunity of the chiefs applies in favour of the 
headman as to lhe point now bpforp i!.«. 



We were referred to clause 1 of Ordiaauce No, 14 of 1840 as 1862. 
making all lands liable to land tax. But that clause only " con- August 14. 
tiuues the levy upon lands then liable thereto, as by law custom or 
usage was then levied or payable." But Kandyan lieadmen's 
lands being then exempt were clearly not within the meaning of 
that clause. 

The judgment of the Court below will be accordingly set 
aside, and judgment entered for defendant with costs. 



D. C. &alle, ) ,,,,, , , 

No. 9501. / OUvad;iy..J^nsz. 

The facta are sufficiently stated in the following judgment of Foifeiture 
the Supreme Court. ofrecogni- 

. Z2iHCG IsW 

Dias appeared for appellants, the Queen's Advocate for res- ^mder -vear- 
pondent. rant of Dis- 

In this case one E. A. Jans2 gave bail to appear before the jjg^g^^ j^ggg 

District Court of Galle to take his trial for assault. The appellants, gi' jj^ pj^.' 

Anthony and SchefEer, were his securities under the bail-boiid. ce\ure. 
Jansz did not appear on the summons to take his trial, and on the 
motion of the counsel for the prosecution, the District Court 
ordered the recognizance to be forfeited under the 29th clause of 
Ordinance No. 5 of 1855 ; and at the same time, on the motion of 
the D. Q. Advocate, a summons was ordered to issue to Jansz and 
his securities under the 1 1 clause of Ordinance No. 6 of 1855 to 
shew cause why the sums acknowledged in the bail-bond should 
not be levied on their goods &c. To this summons, Jansz was 
reported not to be found, and on the 9th June the sureties, appear- 
ing by coimsel, shewed cause. The District Court however ordered 
the amount of the recognizance to be paid into Court, and iu 
default warrants of distress to issue under the 11 clause of Ordinance 
6 of 1855. 

Against this order the securities have appealed, and the 
following objections have been urged by their counsel. (1) That 
the commission of Justice of the Peace given to Mr. Fraser in 
1853, and under which he acted, was impliedly revoked by the 
subsequent temporary commission given to him in 1861 "under the 
Ordinance No. 3 of 1853; (2) That the original recognizance 
was not sent to the Fiscal by the Justice of the Peace, as required 
by the 25th clause of Ordinance 5 of 1855. (3) There is no 
evidence that the certificate of non-appearance was endorsed on the 
recognizance, as required by clajase 10 of Ordinance 6 of 1855. 
(4) There is no evidence that Jnusz was absent wh'>D oalh-d in 
Couri , 



U8 

1862- As to tlie first objection, there is no evidence that the com- 

August 14. mission given to Mr. Praser in 1853 was ever formally revoked, 
— and text of Chitty on Prerogatives p 89, 90, cited by the appellant, 

does not bear out the allegation that it was revoked by implication. 
As to the 2nd objection, there is no conclusive evidence that the 
original recognizance was not sent by the Justice, and as it was 
produced before the District Court, it is to be presumed it was 
regularly transmitted ; neither does it appear how the sureties 
will suffer, if the fact were otherwise. As to the 3rd objection, 
this endorsement is to be made under the 1 0th clause of Ordinance 
6 of 1855 by the Registrar or other proper officer of the court. 
Now both the recognizance and the certificate are before the court 
properly, and the certificate is to be considered the act of court, 
and thereupon required no proof. As to the 4th objection, the 
entry of non-appearance by the Judge of the court is prima facie 
evidence of absence, and such entry being a record of the District 
Court would be properly judicially noticed by it in its subsequent 
proceedings. 

Affirmed. 



Mortgage — 
priority — 
effect of 
creditor pay- 
ing ofE a 
more ancient 

creditor — 
advances for 
cultivation 
of estate — 
prior special 
mortgage — 
preference. 



p. C. Colombo, 
No. 29669 



•1 



Marshall et al v. Edermanesingham, 
Lee, applicant 4r appellant, and Sinnaya Chetty, 
opponent ^ respondent. 



The following judgment of Lawson D. J., sets out the facts 
of the case : — 

" This is a proceeding brought to determine the respective 
rights and priorities of the mortgagees of an estate, called the 
Koodoogalle estate, sold under the judgment obtained in this case 
against defendant Edermanesingham. 

" It appears that Edermanesingham purchased this estate from 
Martin and Marshall for a sum of £10,000. Credit was given by 
the vendors for £6,000 part of the purchase' money ; and on the 
23rd October 1857 a bond in a penal sum of £12,000 was given 
by Edermanesingham to Martin and Marshall, to secure the pay- 
ment of this sum by five instalments annually of £1,200 each, 
payable on 1st January in each year, commencing from 1859 until 
payment in full with interest @ 7 o/o ; and for further security a 
mortgage of the estate was given to them. On the 23rd December 
1858, the defendant executed a second mortgage of the estate for 
£1,000 with interest @ 15 o/o in favour of Sinnaya Chetty ; and 
again on the 15th August 1859, he executed a further mortgage of 
the same land in favour of Sinnaya Chetty, for a sum of £2,000. 

" The first instahnent of £1200 was paid when it bccamp due, 



1.49 

and before the second instalment hecame due, Edermanesingham 18C2. 
entered into an arrangement with W. D. Lee, by which the latter August 14. 
agreed to pay that instalmen,t, and to make advances to carry on — 

the cultivation of the .estate, and to secure these sums Edermane- 
singham on the 24th December 1859 gave Lee a further mortgage 
on the estate. 

•' Lee had no notice of either of the mortgages to Sinnaya Chetty ; 
and Edermanesingham in the mortgage deed to Lee expreosly 
declared that the estate was subject only to Martin and Marshall's 
claim, and that there was no other incumbrance on it ; by the 
same deed, Edermanesingham appointed Lee his agent and factor 
for the estate with authority to visit and power to appoint, dismiss 
and pay the superintendents. On the 5th January 1860, Lee paid 
to Martin and Marshall's agent the instalment of £1200 then due, 
with a further sum of £336, being interest @ 7 o/o on £4800 for 
the previous year ; but, believing in consequence of the fraud 
practised on him by Edermanesingham that his own mortgage 
ranked next to that of Martin and Marshall, he took no assignment 
of their claim against the estate. Immediately after the arrange- 
ment with Lee was made, he was put in possession of the estate, 
and thereupon removed the superintendent and appointed a fresh 
one, imtil the sale in June last, hereafter to be referred to. Lee 
also provided the necessary funds for the cultivation of the estate. 

" After the instalment of 1861 became due, Lee discovered the 
fraud which had been practised on him by Edermanesingham, and 
thereupon obtained an , assignment from Martin and Marshall of 
their claim agamst Edermanesingam under their mortgage to the 
extent of £1536, but subject to their own claim to the residue of 
the purchase money, viz. £3600 and interest thereon then remain- 
ing due as a prior claim. 

" On the 25th March 1861, Martin and Marshall obtained 
judgment against Edermanesingam for the £3600 due in respect 
of their mortgage bond. Under this judgment a writ was issued 
and the estate was advertised for sale; but the sale was afterwards 
stopped by Sinnaya Chetty, who shortly afterwards purchased the 
judgment and mortgage bond of Martin and Marshall for £ 3852 
12s 6(/., and took an assignment of their interest by deed dated 
ISth A;>ril, 1861, under which he was also appointed their agent 
for the purpose of I'ecovering this sum. A fresh wi-it was there- 
upon issued, and the estate was put up for sale and purchased by 
Sinnaya Chetty for £7500. Lee thereupon claimed a sun: of 
£3157. 2. 7, as duo to him under his mortgage on account of ll.e 
payment by him of the sum ol: £1536, and of his advances for the 
up"kee[) of "the estue, and refused to give up possession, in conse- 
quence of which claims Sinnaya Chetty paid into court this sura of 
£31 -"17. 2, 7, and Lfe delivpred over possession of- the estate, on 



]:■)() 

18^12. reouivuig an undertakiug from the Prootor of Siunaya Ohetty that 
August 14. his claim should not be thereby prejudiced. 

— • Lee now applies to be allowed eredit for this sum of 

£3157. 2. 7, as a charge on the estate, subject indeed to the claim 
of Sinnaya Chetty for the sum of £3600 and interest due to him 
under assignment of the mortgage and judgment from Martin and 
Marshall, but preferent to the mortgages for £1000 and £2000 of 
the i'3rd December 1858, and of the 15th August 1859. 

" Lee obtained judgment on the 21st May last againts Eiler 
manesingham for £1536 due on his mortgage and assignment from 
IMartin and Marshall, and for £889. 10. 6. for the balance due on 
account of advances up to the 25th April 1861. He has tendered 
the estate accounts for inspection of the court, and the court is 
satisfied that this sum was due on that date on account of such 
advances, and that there is a further sum due for his expenditure 
Lip to the 11th of July when he gave over possession. 

" The question is, whether Lee has a claim on the pioceeds of 
the sale of the estate for these sums or either of tli^m, before pay- 
ment to Sinnaya Chetty of the sums due to him in respect of his 
mortgages. 

" It is not contended on the part of Lee that Sinnaya Chetty 
participated in the fraud practised by Ederm mesingham ; nor on 
the other hand, is it argued that Lee was guilty of any negligence 
or default in not having ascertained the existence of the mortgages 
to Sinnaya Chetty before making advances on the estate. The 
claimants therefore come before the court witli equal equities, and 
the maxim qui prior est tempo''e poti 'v eHjure will apply except in 
so far as any claim may be proved to be privileged. Now on 
tiuhalf of Lee it has been contended that having ]j"id off the 
debt of Martin and MarshaK to the extent of £1536, hehas suc- 
ceeded to their rights in respect of that sum under their mortgage, 
both by virtue of the assignment from them, and also, irrespective 
of that assignment, on the ground that a creditor who pays o£E a 
more ancient creditor than himself succbels to the mortgage 
of that creditor. And it is further coui.ended that Lee is en- 
titled to priority in respect of his advances t^w irds the estate, 
because the value of the estate has been enhanced to an equivalent 
extent by the expenditure, and that such expenditure creates a tacit 
hypothec, having preference over a previouf. sjiecial hypothec ; and 
.'ilso Lee, having been in possession of the est.io at the time of the 
sale, was entitled to retain posse-^sion until his expenditure on the 
estate was repaid him, and that, by ag:-eomcnt Letw.^en the parties, 
his surrender of the estate was not to prejudice his i'iLj;hts. 

" Each of these points has been very fully urgued at the bar, 
and the Court will proceed to consider them iu iLo orjor in which 
(.hoy have been ff a; cd. 



I r, I 

" Isi,. Whether anything _passedhy the aesignmtnt from Muriin 1862. 
and Murshjll to Lee ? August 14. 

" On t,hi.-. point, the Court is of opinion that Martin and Blarshall's — 

debt was extinguished and satisfied to the extent of the £ 153b by 
the payment of that sum to them by Lee, and that there was no 
agreement between them and Lee at the time of the payment fgr 
a subsequent assignment, such assignment, made in pursuance of an 
agreement entered into some time after the payment, is void (Sande 
de actiomim ceasio7ie, cap. vii. sec. 1.) 

" 2ndly. Whether, indej^endeiitly of the assignment, Lee ac- 
nidred the rinnts of the prior mortgagees by the payment of their claim. 

" In support of the affirmative of this proposition, the authority 
of Domat is quoted to the following eSect: — 

'He who being already a creditor pays ofE another creditor 
of the same debtor, who is prior to himself, succeeds to his mortgage, 
although be have made no such agreement, nor received any sub- 
stitution. For his iiuality of creditor makes it to be presumed that 
he pays him who is the more ancient creditor with no other view 
than that lie miiy succeed in his place and thereby secure his own 
debt, which distinguishes his condition from him who, having no 
such, interest, pays for the debtor without substitution, and of 
whom it may be s lid that perhaps he was under an obligation to 
the debtor to pay for him.' 

" This authority appears to the Court inapplicable to the jiresent 
case for the following reasons: 

" (a.) At the time when Lee paid the sum of £1536 to Martin 
and Marshall, he was not a creditor of Edermanesingham, but had 
only received a mortgage to cover future payments, of which this 
sum appears to have been the first. 

" (b.) It appears from the passage cited that where there is 
a presumption that the person paying was under an obligation \o 
the debtor to do so, that presumption will rebut the presumptiou 
of an intent on the part of the payer to succeed to the rights 
of the prior creditor ; a fortiori therefore will the latter pre- 
Bumption be ri^butted by actual proof of such obligation on the 
part of the payer. Now in the present case, Lee was bound 
by the agreement wdth Edermanesingham, recited in the deed of 
the 24th December 1859, to pay to Edermanesingham the sum of 
£ 1500, which at the request of the latter he paid to Martin 
and Marshall. 

" (c.) The assignment of a mortgage of landed property, 
being a contract for establishing an interest in such property, must 
under the provisions of Ordinance 7 of 1840 be effected by nota- 
rial instrument. 

" The Court therefore in the absencr of such evidence is ]ive- 
clirdnil from pi-o!--umin;j- sncli assicnmen. ^n hav^^ hcon nadt frum 



If<ti2. the acts of the parties or the circumstances of the case; anl this is 
August 14. not tlie case of a tacit hypothec created hy operation of law, wiiich, 
as has often been held, is not excluded by the operation of the 
Ordinance, but a case of the assignment of a conventional hypothec 
by the persous entitled thereto, which falls under the provisions of 
the Ordinance as fully a a the original hypothecation itself. 

■' (d.) Lee having elected to. take from the debtor a special 
mortgage to secure his advance, be cannot therefore be presumed 
to have intended to take an assignment which would have rendered 
such a mortgage unnecessary; and though Lee neglected to take 
this assignment in consequence of the fraud of Edermanesiughatn, 
this cannot prejudice Sinnaya Chetty who was no party to the 
fraud. 

" Before leavin? this question as to the effect of payment of a 
prior debt in transferring to the payer the right of the formor 
debtor, it is necessary to consider the decision of the Supreme Court 
in- case No. 14008 from tbe District Court of Galle (LorenzlSOJ, 
which was cited as an application of the principle relied on. 
In that case, the defendant, who was indebted to two others, to the 
one on a special mortgage of land, and to the other, the plaintiff in 
the case, as it would appear, on simple contract, sold and transferred 
the mortgaged property to another, who gave the mortgage credi- 
tor his own bond for his debt. Shortly afterwards, the plaintiff 
obt-iined judgment and seized the land which was claimed by the 
tr;iust'eree. The Court held that the transfer wis fraudulent and 
illusive, as intended to defeat the claim of the plaiutiif, and 
accordingly set aside the ti-ansfer, but held the claimant entitled to 
be paid the amount of the mortgage debt as a prefcrent claim. 
The reasons of the judgment are not stated in the re; -rt, but it 
appears that the property seized was vested in the claimant, and 
that the plaintiff could not justly set aside the transfer on the 
ground of fraud without paying to the claimant the money 
bona fide e.Kpended by him or for which he had rendered himself 
responsible in paying or settling a claim preferent to that of the 
plaintiff. 

" The Court therefore holds that Lee is not entitled to rank 
before Sinnaya Chetty with respect to the claim for £1536. 

" Srdly. We have next to consider whether advances f<,r the 
cultivation of the estate give, in so far as they have enhanced its 
value, a preferent claim to the person making the advances over a 
prior creditor under a special mortgage ; and this poiut must be 
considered first without reference to any rights which Lee may 
have acquired by virtue of his possession of the property, which 
will be considered separately. The point now in question was 
considered by this court in the case No. 22317, and a decision was 



153 

given unfavourable to the claim of a person who had spent Lis 1863. 
money in the improvement and plantation of a garden even as a August, 14» 
mortgagee holding a special mortgage considerably subsequent in '^ 

date to the agreement under which the plaintiff conimenGed hia 
improvements. The case however is cited by the counsel for Lee 
on the ground that the decision of the court on this point was 
reversed by the Supreme Court. On reference to this case, it ap- 
pears to the court that though itg judgment was altered and modi- 
fied by the Supreme Court, the alteration was in substance an 
affirmation of its decision on the point now in question. In that 
case, the plaintiff was the planter of a, cocoanut garden belonging 
t;o the first defendant, which was sold under a writ of the 2nd 
defendant, who held a special mortgage from the first, of date 
subsequent to the agreement under which the plaintiff commenced 
to plant. The plaintiff claimed the amount expended by him in 
the plantation out of the proceeds of the sale of the estate, and this 
Court, holding that the expenditure gave him no such preferent 
claim, dismissed the case. The Supreme Court set aside this 
judgment, but confirmed the non-suit as against second defendant, 
holding that the plaintiff not haying completed his contract toi 
plant might hold possession, until it was completed, and might then 
have his remedy against the owner of the land for the time being. 
By this decree the 2nd defendant was allowed his costs against 
plaintiff. The effect of this judgment therefore is to allow the 
special mortgagee to rank before a claimant who had expended 
money in the improvement of the land, even where the mortgage 
is of later date than the exdependiture ; a fortiori therefore must a 
special mortgagee be allowed preference over one who has com- 
menced his improvements after the date of the mortgage, and if 
the Court is right in considering the judgment of the Supreme 
Court as an affirmal of its former decision, it is not now competent 
for it to re-open the question. 

" 4thly. It remains only to consider whether Lee, being in poS' 
session at the time of seizure, was entitled to hold possession, until 
payment of his expenditure on the estate, against a prior mortgagee. 

" Now the Court can find no authority for the position that a 
subsequent mortgagee in possession can hold the property mortgaged 
as against a prior mortgagee, without possession either for his debt 
or for his expenditure in the improvement of the pledge. Such a, 
doctrine would render all mortgages withoi^t possession unsafe, and 
yet would not go far enough for the present case, for Lee was va, 
possession, not as mortgagee, bu,t as agent of the owner under the 
power of attorney annexed to his mortgage, and, after the sale of 
the estate, his right to hold possession ceased, and an illegal pos- 
session can confer no lien: the lien exists only over property pledged, 
and does not affect the rights of a prior mortgagee. It was thro\^u 



154 

1862. out in tlie course of the argument that the money paid by Lee to 
August, 14. Martin and Marshall was privileged, as being money advanced to 
pay for the purchase of the estate ; but Martin and Marshall, having 
given credit to Edermanesingham for the purchase money, and 
taken security for the payment, had lost the preference which they 
would otherwise have had over the property sold for the payment 
of the purchase money, and Lee by paying them could not acquire 
a right which they had lost. 

" Keference was also made by the counsel for Lee to a clause in 
the assignment from Martin and Marshall to Sinnaya Chetty of 
the 18th April last, by which it was provided that nothing in that 
deed should prejudice the right of Lee under the previous assign- 
ment to him of the £ 1536; and these words were relied on as an 
admission on the part of Sinnaya Chetty of the right of Lee under 
that assignment; but the words without prejudice cannot be con- 
strued as intended to give the previous assignment any effect which 
it would not otherwise have had by law, and the deeds in which 
the words occur is a deed poll from Martin and Marshall, not 
executed by Sinnaya Chetty. 

" The Court in deciding against the claim of Lee,' is conscious 
of the great hardship which he has suffered from the fraud which 
has been practised upon him by Edermanesingham; but in the 
absence of any suggestion either of participation in the fi'aud or of 
concealment on the part of the Chetty, the proceeds of the mort- 
gaged property must be administered according to the priority in 
time of the claims against it, and the Court can in the present 
proceeding give no remedy for the injury inflicted, without pre- 
judicing the rights of another innocent party. 

" The application of the claimant is therefore dismissed, parties 
paying their costs respectively." 

On appeal, the Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the 
Court below, in these terms : — 

The long and careful judgment of the District Court Judge 
in this case sets out the facts so fully, and states the law and the 
reasoning on the law as applied to the facts so ably, that the 
Supreme Court does not feel itself required to give a lengthened 
judgment on the appeal. 

The only matter on which we at all differ from the District 
Court Judge is as to that part of the judgment in which he says 
that before the 2nd instalment from Edermanesingam to Martin 
and Marshall fell dvie, " Edermanesingam entered into an arrange- 
ment with W.- D. Lee, by which the latter agreed to pay that 
instalment and to make advances to curry on the cultivation of the 
estate." This would give the idea that a principal and n primary 
part uf the arraiigoment between Edermaiiesiugam and Lee ivas an 
Jigrocmeiit Lb;'.l Lcc should take uu him.sulf EJcrmauesinffam's bia- 



155 

den pf the mortgage to !Martin and MarsLall to a certain amount : 1862. 
As'liereas we think on careful consideration of the parol evidence August, 14, 
and documents in the case, that the main substantial agreement 
between Lee and Edermanesingam was an agreement that Lee 
should make advances for the estate, in consideration for which he 
was to receive certain interest, and to have the powers of agent 
and factor for the estate and the right to have all the crops con- 
signed to him at a fixed rate (the proceeds to be employed in a 
specific manner), and he was to have by \vay of security a mort- 
gage on the estate, subject to the primary mortgage to Martin and 
Marshall, which alone was disclosed to him. There was to be an 
advance of £1500 on the first January then next, and further 
advances for cultivation not exceeding £125 per month. The 
application of this £1500 in payment of the instalment and inter- 
est due to Martin and Marshall was, we think, a minor matter of 
subsequent arrangement between Lee and Edermanesingam, though 
doubtless the amount had been calculated by Edermanesingam 
with regard to his requirements as to Martin and Marshall. 

The opinion which we hold aS to the nature of the transaction 
between Edermanesingam and Mr. Lee makes of course an addi- 
tional reason for confirming the judgment of the District Court. 

We entirely reject the theory set up by Lee's counsel, the 
theory that there had been a mutual arrangement between Lee and 
Edermanesingam that he should be substitilted for Martin and 
Marshall as mortgage creditor to the amount of the £1500. "We 
do not say that Mr. Lee's present claim cotild have been upheld, 
even if stich an arrangement had existed ; but its- non-existence is 
enough to invalidate the greater part of the arguments that were 
urged before us on Lee's behalf. 

"We consider that when Mr. Lee paid Martin and Marshall tha 
£ 1536, he paid it as one of the advances he was tcr make to 
Edermanesingam, and not with any idea of becoming a substitute 
of Martin and Marshall to that amount, and so protecting himself 
against any intermediate mortgage. Indeed he was not only with- 
out notice of any such intermediate mortgage, but he evidently 
belieyed Edermanesingham's assurance that Martin and Marshall's 
mortgage was the only one in existence prior to his own. 

We further quite agree with the District Court Judge that 
Lee, when he • paid the £1536, was not already a creditor of 
Edermanesingam, and that when long afterwards he obtained an 
assignment of Martin and Marshall's supposed right to that amount, 
Martin and Marshall had ceased quoad hoc to be creditors. We 
quite agree with the District Judge's comments on the passages cit- 
ed from Domat and De Sande, and we with him consider this not to 
have been a case where a prior creditor's enctimbrance was paid ofE 
by a subseqrient creditor, 



15G 

1862. We equally agree with him as to his decision on the 

August, 14. second part of this case. We think that Mr. Lee has no claim, 
certainly no claim in preference to the second mortgagee's, in regard 
of the sum paid by him for the cultivation and improvement of the 
estate. Mr. Lee did not take possession as mortgagee, but as the 
mortgagor's agent and factor. We do not think that the monies 
laid out by him in cultivation gave himl the tacit hypothec contend- 
ed for, and even if they did, that hypothec being subsequent in 
date would be inferior in obligation to the express special hyphothed 
of Sinnaya Chetty. We will not repeat the excellent commenta- 
ries of the District Court Judge on the authorities cited before him; 
but as several authorities were cited before us in behalf of Mr. Lee 
which do not appear to have been mentioned below, we will briefly 
advert to them, and state the effect which due consideration of 
them has produced on our minds. 

On the first point, on the substitution of the third mortgage 
for the first. Story's Equity Jurisprudence, vol. 1. p. 635 was refer- 
red to. That does not carry the case further than the passages 
from Domat quoted below ; it deals only with the position of the 
later creditor who buys up the debt of an older, creditor ; and its 
applicability here is refuted by the same reasoning which thei 
District Court Judge has used as' to the citation from Domat. 

The passage in 3 Burje refers to the Code Napoleon only. 

On the second point, on the claini to be paid before Sinnaya 
Chetty on the supposed tacit hypothec for the advancement of 
inoney for cultivation, we were referred to Herbert's Grotius, p. 262; 
That is merely an authority in favour of the hypothec of " whoso- 
ever has lent money for the building or repairing of a house or 
ship," and at p. 267 of the same book, it is laid down that " a tacit 
mortgage has in every respect the sanie effect as a special r so that 
between several tacit mortgages, or between one or moi'e tacit, and 
one or more special conventional hypothec, regard is' to be had as 
to the antiquity of the obligation." 

Vanderheessel, p 438 is precisely to the same effect.- 

The passage in 3 Burge is only as to repairing and rebuilding 
& hotiSe, it cannot go beyond things imperatively necessary for the 
preservation of the property in question. 

We were referred in behalf of Mr. Lee to Voet on the Ins- 
titutes, bk 20, tit. 2, sec. 28. This high authority is clearly against, 
ihe present claimant. Voet limits the tacit hypothec to the case of 
preserving and repairing a house. He gives a special reason why 
such hypothec arises in such a case. The reason is " Publici 
aspertus favor propter quem domini etiam inviti magistratus auotori- 
tate coguntur asdes reficere " And in the same part of his commen- 
taries, he says "Longi minus pignus legale illis qui in aliarum rerum 
sire reparationem sire moliomtionem siA'e emptioaem credidorunt." 



157 



iii. Burge 349,350 was next cited; This part of his work 1862. 
when examined is found to apply solely to caSes connected with August, 14; 
West Indian property. Bui'ge spfeaks of the peculiat nature of 
that property, and says that there " exists no express law by which 
a person furnishing the supplies of an estate has any lien on the 
estate itself or its proceeds. 

Sayers v. Whitfield, 1 Knapp 133, and the case in 14 Vesey 438; 
■which were cited, are both caseS as to West Indian property and 
on special circumstances which have no bearing here; 

On the whole, we are of opinion, as to the first branch of his 
fclaim, that this was not a case of a later encumbrancer, bu;^ing up 
the mortgage of a prior, so as to fentitle him to the lights of that 
prior one as against an intermediate encumbrancer; 

With regard, to the second branch, as to the claim in respeci of 
advances for cultivation, 'v^e do not think that any tacit hypothec 
was created ; and even if there were, such tacit hypothec can have 
no priority as to payment oYer the earlier special conventional 
hypothec of Sinnaya Chetty; 

We fully agree with what the District Court Judge has said 
as to the good faith of both Mr. Lee and Sinnaya Chetty in the^e 
transactions, and in the regret eXptessed by him for the injury 
which Edermanesibgham's fraud has caused to Mr. Lee. But \v^ 
cannot relieve Mr. Lee at the expense of a third person, whose 
claim is as good as his morally, and superior to his own in point 
bf law. 



i^ \ Vt C X i\ ~)^'°' *^® matter of the Insolvency of Durand 

\ '' ■ ■ _ „ J'V TCp.rsba.w • SiinTiramanian Chettv and Tiaman 



„ o- ' > Kershaw : Suppramanian Chetty and Eaman 
JMo. bO. ^ pj^gj.^^ Appellants. 

Plff. and Respdt. 



Mrs. 



Amelia Kershaw 

ts. 

■ Messrs. Andrew Nicoll and Henry Birdj 

assignees of the Insolvent estate of Durand 

Kershaw, .:. ... Dfts. and Applts. 

Andrew Nicoll and Henry Bird, assig- 
ness of the Insolvent estate of Durand 
Kershaw, . . . Plffs. and Applta; 

ts. 
Edward Grlfedstone Le Pelly and others 
Dfts. and Eespdts. 

The following judgment of the Supreme Court seta out all 
tte facts of the case : — 

These were appeals arisitig out of the Insolvency of Mr. 
Durand Kershiw of Atgalle in the Kandyan territory in this Island. 



(2.) 



(3.) 



D. C. Kandy, 
No. 36105. 



D. C. Eandy, 
No. 36592. 



Sluropeans, 

leBident in 

Kandy — 

actual and 

matiimonial 



ir.ft 



1862. 
August, 14. 

domicile — 

European 

■woman — 

Kaudyauwife 

— Kandyan 

Law. 

Husband and 

wife— post- 
nuptial settle- 
ment — volun- 
tary convey- 
ance fraudu- 
lent prefer- 

auce — 
insolvency. 



Ml', KoTshaw was adjudicated an Insolvent on the l.jtli .September 
last. His certificate was opposed by two of his creditors, named 
Suppramanian Chatty and Raman Chetty, the appellants in No. -8,5. 

While the Insolvency proceedings were pending, Mrs. Kershaw, 
the insolvent's wife, brought an action. No. 36105, against the assig- 
nees to establish her right to certain property called Elk Cottage 
at Nuwera Eliya in the Kandyan territories ; and the assignees 
brought an action No. 36592 against certain trustees of Mrs. Ker- 
shaw's, to recover possession of a njoiety of an estate called Kaipo- 
galle, situate also in the Kandyan provinces. 

The questions raised in the Insolvency proceedings were to a 
gteat extent identical with those raised in the two last mentioned 
actions ; and the three cases were so closely connected that, by a 
very proper arraiigement and on consent of parties, the evidence 
taken in any one of the cases was considered to be evidence (so far 
as applicable) taken in each of the other two, and judgment on the 
three cases was given on the same day by the District Court Judge. 

He decided the land actions against the assignees and in 
favour of Mrs. Kershaw's and her trustees ; and he gave the insol- 
vent a first class certificate. The assignees have appealed against 
the first named two of these decisions, and the opposing creditors 
have appealed against the last. 

There are three substantial questions to be considered,-^ 

1st. Are the conveyances by the Insolvent of the Kaipogalle 
estate to his wife's trustees valid against the assignees ? 

2ndly. Is the conveyance by the Insolvent of the Elk cottage 
property to his wife valid against the assignees ? 

3rdly. Hating regard to the insolvent's conduct in the con- 
veying away of these estates, and also to his conduct in some other 
respects (which will be hereafter detailed), is the insolvent entitled 
to any, and, if so, to what class certificate ? 

It was material in this case (especially with regard to the 
question about the Elk Cottage property), to ascertain whether the 
matrimonial domicile of Mr. and Mrs. Kershaw was or was not in 
the Kandyan territory. 

The proceedings in the cases, as they came up to us from the 
District Court, gave no information on this point. They- shewed 
that the actual domicile was Kandyan, but they gave no light as 
to what was the matrimonial domicile. Instead of putting the 
parties to the expense and delay which would have been caused by 
our remitting the cases to the District Court, we, irnder the power 
vested in us for taking fresh evidence vrhen the interests of justice 
require it, examined Mr. Kershaw on this point ; and his answers 
to a few questions distinctly proved that the matrimonial as well 
as the actual domicile of himself and Mrs. Kershaiv was Kandyan. 



159 

The insolreut's books were not in the first instance sent tip to 1862- 
us. We desired to see them, and as we had reason to believe that August, 14. 
they had not be™ very minutely examined, one of us has carefully — 

and with the labour of some days gone through the accounts, the 
Ittter books and the other documents contained in the books now 
on the table of the Court. This examination brought many im- 
portant things to our notice, some of which seemed to require 
explanation ; and as the attention of the insolvent had not been 
directed to them in the proceedings below, we thought it right and 
fair that he should have an opportunity of explaining them before 
ua, if he desired it. His counsel accordingly called him, arid he 
and another witness were examined before us. 

By consent and by arrangement similar to the course followed 
in the District Court, all the evidence taken before us is to be held 
as taken in each of the three cases so far as respectively applicable. 

We shall adjudicate on these cases in an order like that 
adopted below. We will determine, first, the validity of the Kaipo- 
galle conveyances (these being first in date) ; next, we will determine 
the validity of the Elk Cottage conveyance; and lastly, we will 
consider the question of the certificate. 

But there are many things to be considered which are common 
to all three cases. And there ar-e certain main facts, clear and in- 
disputable facts, which may be conveniently stated and arranged 
in chronological order, 'before we come to the disputed points 
in these several suits. 

Mr. Kershaw first came to Ceylon in 1844. He returned to 
Europe for a short time in 1855, having in the meanwhile become 
proprietor of several coffee estates in the Kandyan territory. He 
married Mrs. Kershaw at Guernsey in 1855, and at the time of the 
marriage both he and Mr. Kershaw contemplated coming to Ceylon 
and permanently residing on one of Mr. Kershaw's cofEee estates in 
the Kandyan Provinces. They came here before the end of 1855. 
Mr. Kershaw was for a short time in Government employ here, 
but he left it in 1856, and thenceforward to the time of his 
insolvency he and Mrs. Kershaw resided at one of his cofEee estates 
at Atgalle, near Gampola, in the Kandyan territory. Besides his 
business as a cofPee planter, he carried on engineering business also 
within the Kandyan territory. Mr. Kershaw appears at the time 
of his return fi'om England to have been possessed of considerable 
property: but his affairs grew worse, especially in and after 1857. 

He had made no settlement on his wife before their marriage, 
but there was an antenuptial agreement signed and sealed at 
(iiicrnscy (the precise effect of which will hereafter be explained) 
by which a certain sum was to be paid to Mrs. Kershaw, if sil^ 
survived him, 



16Q 

A ^^^^'-lA On returning to Ceylon in 1855, lie placed tte Guernsey ante- 

August, 14. nuptial agreeniont in -the hands of Mr. De Saram, the well known 
Proctor of this Island; but that gentleman has proved that he 
received no instmotions to prepare any settlement under it, until 
the 2Qth March fSSS. It is stated that there was (and it is self- 
evident that there must have been) some difficulty in preparing a 
settlenient under it; but on the 25th May 1859, Mr. Kershaw by a, 
deed, purporting to be in furtherance of the Guernsey agreement, 
conveyed to trustees in Mrs. Kershaw's behalf a moiety of thq 
estate of Kaipogalle, Tyhich estate Mr. Kershaw had bought in the 
beginning of the preceding year. In August 1860, he conveyed, by a 
similar deed to the same trustees, some forest land adjoining the 
Kaipogalle estate and designed to form part of it. 

In April 186Q, Mr. Kershavy boi^ght froin Mr. Macartney a 
cottage called Elk Cottage at Nuwara Eliya. The purchase money 
■ was £110. Qf this only £10 was paid ^t the time, and 
Mr. Macartney retained the title deeds till he got the balance. On 
the 26th May 1860, an aunt of Mrs. Kershaw's died at Guernsey, 
and by her will bequeathed a share of certain property to Mrs. Ker- 
shaw, described by her maiden qame of Amelia Le Pelly in the 
will, which had been drawn before Mrs. Kershaw's marriage. The 
bequest to Amelia Le Pelly was not expressed to be to her sole 
use, although the will did direct that the share accruing to Jane dei 
Pelly (another of the legatees) should be secured to Jane de Pelly's 
sole use. 

On the 10th January 1861, Mr. Kershaw paid Mr. Macartney 
the £100 balance of the purchase money of the cottage. 

Early in January 1S[61, Mrs. Kershaw's attornies in Guernsey 
(being attornies for her only, and not for Mr. Kershaw) received 
fr.om the executors Mr|. Kershaw's legacy, amounting to £600. 
Of this £50 is disbursed in Guem|ey in paying ofi some private, 
accounts of Mrs. Kershaiy's; the, remaining £550 was on 10th 
January 1861 paid by Mrs. Ker^aw's attornies to Mr. Kershaw's 
Agent in London, Messrs. I)obree, and is by them placed to hia 
credit in his account with them. 

On tlie 18th January 1861, Mr, Kershaw directed Mr. Fer- 
dinands, a Proctor here, to prepare a conveyance of Elk Cottage, 
from himself to Mrs. Kershaw; and he on the 4th February 1861, 
executed the conveyance to her of that property. 

It is stated on Mr. Kershaw's behalf that he had improved 
the value of the cottage since his purchase of it from Mr. Macart- 
ney, and that altogether the sums, which he had laid out on the 
cottage before his insolvency, a little more than equalled the 
amount of the £550, the legacy to Mrs. Kershaw. On 12th 
September 1861, Mr. Kershaw filed his declaration of insolvency. 

The ap;;ount of his liabilities is upwards of £28,000. The 



101 

assets hitherto realised are less than £10,000. This amount has 1862. 
been effected by sale of -the coffee estates (exchisive of the August 11, 
subject matter of the present litigation,) and it is stated that little — 

more is likely to be obtained from the other property, exclusive of 
that which is the subject of the present litigation. 

The assignees impeach the validity of the conveyances, both 
of Kaipogalle and of Elk Cottage ; and with regard to the con- 
veyance of Elk Cottage, a curious and important point arises, which 
we must deal with before we address ourselves to the scrutiny of 
the insolvent's pecuniary position at the time of the transfer. 

We must see whether Mrs. Kershaw had the right of a Kandyan 
wife as to receiving and holding property independently of her 
husband, and of entering into contracts with him or with any one 
else in her own right, or whether she was under the Koman Dutch 
Law, according to which there is community of property between 
hu3band and wife, and according to which she could have no such 
rights as have been exercised or attempted to be exercised here. 

It is to be borne in mind that the legacy- to Mrs. Kershaw, 
with the proceeds of which Mr. Kershaw says that he bought and 
improved Elk Cottage, was not a bequest to her sole and separate 
use, and that therefore there would be no equitable jurisdiction to 
appoint trustees for her to receive it and hold it to her sole use. 
Neither is this a case where either the husband or the assignees are 
seeking the aid of the Court to compel payment of a fund accruing 
due to the wife. So that there is no equitable power here to 
compel a settlement of part, or of perhaps the whole of the money 
on the wife, such as arises when either the husband or his assignees 
claim a sum accruing jure nxoris but not reduced into possession. 

This £550 came into the husband's possession when it was 
paid to his account at Dobree's. 

Unless Mrs. Kershaw is to be regarded as a Kandyan wife, 
she had no separate right whatever to the monies when it had been 
so paid to the husband; and unless she is to be regarded as a 
Kandyan wife, the direct conveyances of the property from her 
husband to her is a mere nullity. 

It was in the expectation of this point arising in the case that 
we considered it material to ascertain the matrimonial domicile of 
the parties. If it had been proved elsewhere than in Kandy, 
though the actual domicile at the time of these transactions was in 
Kandy, we must notwithstanding the Ordinance No. 21 of 1844, 
section 6, have addressed ourselves to consider, and to adjudicate 
on, the very difficult question, whether in such cases the law of the 
matrimonial, or the law of the actual, domicile must prevail as to 
the status of the parties, a question on which so many of the 
greatest jurists have differed, as may be seen by reference to the 
authorities cited in the well-known treatises of Story and Burge. 



162 

1862. But it has been clearly proved in this case that both the actual and 
August 14. the matrimonial domiciles were in Kandy: and v/e must treat 
— Mrs. Kershaw as having the rights of a Kandyan wife as to her 

property not being the property of her husband, and as to her 
capacity to contract in ier own right, unless we were to hold that 
the Kandyan Law applies to native Kandyans only, and not to 
Europeans who have become resident in the Kandyan Provinces. 

This is a question of vei-y great moment in the administration 
of the law in an important province of this Island ; and as we may, 
while this case was being discussed, have raised doubts on the 
subject, we think it right to state somewhat fully the reasons 
which have led us ultimately to the conclusion that the operation 
of the Kandyan Law is not limited to Kandyan natives, and that 
we are bound to apply it in the present case. 

The general principle is well known that a conquered or 
ceded country is to be considered as retaining its former laws, 
until the sovereign orders a change. But there may be exceptions 
to this presumption, and it is easy to imagine, or to point out in 
history, instances of nations or tribes having organization enough 
to make them " states," within the meaning of International Law, 
and with which obligatory treatises as to cession and other matters 
might be made, but whose laws might be so savage, so iniquitous 
and immoral as to make it impossible to presume that a Christian 
European sovereign, who became sovereign of such a nation or 
tribe by conquest or cession, would intend the continuance of such 
laws, at least so far as regards the European sovereign's European 
subjects, who might become settlers in the new territory. Without 
imputing to the Kandyan Law generally a character as has b'een 
just stated by way of hypothesis, we must say that it contained 
much that imsuited it for European habits and feelings, and that 
the whole Kandyan Marriage Law, especially as it existed until a 
very few years ago, with its allowance of polygamy (and tha^ in 
the form of polyandry, the form most offensive to European feel- 
ings,) its allowance of arbitrary and capricious divorce, and the 
easiness with which the rights of legitimacy are given to the issue 
of loose and casual connexions, was utterly repugnant to the most 
cherished feelings, and the most fixed principles of Christian 
Englishmen and women; and it is hard to suppose that they, when 
they came to live in Kandy, were intended to be under Kandyan 
law, in their capacities and obligations as husbands and wives. (It 
may be particularly mentioned, with special reference to the present 
case, that the reason given in the best work on Kandyan Law, 
Armour p. 9, for there being no community of gtiods between hus- 
band and wife, and for their respective estates remaining distinct 
, from each other, is that, according to Kandyan law, the husband 
jauy at any time with or witliout just cause divorce his wife, and 
V) may the >rif« divorce herself from the husband j. 



163 

All this however is speculative as to what the will of the 1862. 
sovereign should be supposed to be when no express directions have August 14, 
been given as to the continuance and effect of a conquered country's 
laws. Where there have been expressions of the sovereign's will, 
they must guide us. 

It is commonly said that the maintenance of the Kandyan 
law was granted by the representatives of the English sovereign 
when the Province was ceded in 1815. That Proclamation dated 
2nd March 1S15 will be found at p. 180 of the first volume of the 
Legislative Acta of the Government of Ceylon. If it stood 
alone, we should consider it rather an authority to shew that the 
Kandyan laws were to apply to Kandyans only. The 4th clause 
granted those laws to the Kandyan chiefs and people. The 8th 
clause provides that (with and under certain conditions) " the 
" administration of civil and criminal justice and police over the 
" Kandyan subjects of the said Provinces is to be exercised accord- 
" ing to established forms and by the ordinary authorities." The 
9th clause provides separately for the administration of justice 
" over all other persons, civil or military, residing in or resorting to 
" these Provinces, not being Kandyans, until the pleasure of His 
" Majesty's Government in England may be otherwise declared." 

But the terms of this Proclamation was not altogether approved 
of by the Home Government, and at p. 190 of the same volume 
of the Legislative Acts will be found a Proclamation issued here 
on the 31st May 1816, which recites a despatch announcing that 
H. E. H. the Prince Eegent had declined to adopt the pre-existing 
laws and courts of Kandy as forms of the King's civil judicature, 
until more detailed information should have been obtained, as to 
the nature of the laws, and the changes which it may be expedient 
to introduce in their administration. It recites also an opinion of 
of ithe law officers of the crown (which opinion is preserved in the 
archives of the Colony,) and then it proclaims inter alia that " the 
" ancient laws of Kandy are to be administered till His Majesty's 
" pleasure shall be known as to their adoption in toto as to all 
" persons within those Provinces, or their partial adoption as to the 
" natives, and the substitution of new laws and tribunals for the 
" trial and punishment of His Majesty's European subjects for 
" offences committed therein." 

It appears from these state documents that a temporary 
administration of the ancient laws of Kandy was designed, and no 
distinction of persons is directed during such temporary administra- 
tion. The royal legislation as to Europeans resident in Kandy, 
which is contemplated in this Proclamation, was delayed, nor can 
we find that it ever took place, at least not until the Ordinance of 
1852 hereafter to be mentioned.. The Proclamation of 21st 
November 1818, which was issued on the suppression of the 



164 

1862. Kandyan Insiirrectiori in that year, contained pro\isions as to 
August, 14. administration of justice, which, from clause 34 to clause 50 inclu- 
sive, provide particular tribunals and processes " for hearing and 
" determining cases wherein Kandyans are concerned as defendants, 
" either civil or criminal." Clause 50 provided that- " the people 
" of the low country and foreigners coming into the Kandyan 
" Provinces shall continue subject to the civil and criminal juris- 
" diction of the Agents of Government alone, with such additions 
" as His Excellency may by special additional instructions vest 
'• in such Agents." 

This proclamation made some difference as between Kandyana 
and non-Kandyans, so far as regarded the administrators of the law; 
but it did not direct any variation in the kind of law to be adminisr 
tejred. And the Charter of 1833, while it abrogated the then 
existing tribunals and established District Courts for the whole 
Island including Kandy, gave no direction for any change in the 
application of Kandyan law. In point of fact, so far as we have 
been able to ascertain, the old Kandyan law was followed in all 
litigation in Kandy, whoever were the litigants, on all subjects as 
to which any Kandyan law existed ; and on matters unknown to the 
Kandyan law, recourse was had, not to the Roman Dutch law, or 
to the English law, but to the principles of natural equity. 

When we consider how few European residents there were in 
the Kandyan Provinces before the time of the coffee plantations, 
we shall not feel surprised that the legislation contemplated in 
..the Proclamation of 1816, as to what law Europeans in Kandy 
were to live under, did not take place. No practical grievance 
was caused by the delay, and the subject was naturally forgotten. 

- But when the extensive coffee planting brought in a considei-- 
and rapidly increasing European population, the unfitness of 
Kandyan law for Europeans, especially as to the validity of marri- 
ages and rights of succession, was felt and observed, and in 1851 
the Judges of the Supreme Court, sitting collectively, recommended, 
in answer to a communication from the Governor, that, among 
other amendments in the law, the old Kandyan laws should be 
retained in the Kandyan Provinces so far as regarded Kandyans 
themselves, but that the laws of the maritime Provinces should be 
observed in the Kandyan Provinces as to the persons and proper- 
ties of all persons other than Kandyans. It is dear from this 
document (preserved in the books of our Registrar,) and the docu- 
ments connected with it and connected with the Ordinance 5 of 
1852 (which last mentioned documents are in the colonial archives, 
and which we have consulted,) that the Supreme Court at that 
time considered the Kandyan law to, apply to all residents in 
the Kandyan Districts, and that the change recommended 
by the Supreme Court Judges, which have exempted all uon? 



165 

Kandvaus from the operation oE Kandyan law, was thonght by the 18G2. 

authorities hero too sweeping ; and that it wan proposed to legislate August 14. 

sprain lly for partifukr subjects. Accordingly the Ordinance 5th — 

ot lH."i2 was passed, and the second passage of its preamble recites 

the expediency " that the law of the Kandyan Provinces should 

'■ be assimilated as far as maybe to the laws of the Maritime pro- 

'■ viiires." The 5th clause of .this Ordinance is as follows : 

'• ^Vllere there is no Kandyan law or custom, having the. force of 

" law applicable to the decision of any matter or question arising 

" for adjudication within the Kandyan Provinces, for the decision 

" of vvrhich other provision is not herein specially made, the Court 

" shall in such case have recourse to the law as to the like matter 

" or question within the Maritime Provinces, which is hereby 

" declared to be the law for the determination- of such matter or 

" question." 

The 6th' clause extends the law of Namptissement to the 
Kandyan Provinces. The 7th clause extends the criminal law of 
the Maritime to the Kandyan Provinces. The 8th enacts that the 
inheritance and succession to the property of Europeans and Bur- 
ghers in the Kandyan Provinces is to be the same as in the Mari 
time Provinces ; and the 9 clause ordains that marriages between 
Europeans and Burghers, or between an European or Burgher on 
one side and a Cinghalese on the other, within the Kandyan Pro- 
vinces, shall not be valid, unless such marriage would have been 
valid if contracted in the Maritime Provinces. The 10th clause 
extends to Mahometans in the Kandyan Provinces the right of 
being judged, in matters between themselves, by the Mahometan 
code. 

If we take this Ordinance and consider its meaning by an 
examination of its contents only, without any light from exterior 
.sources, it is impossible not to regard it as a Legislative declaration 
that, before it was passed, the Kandyan Law extended to all per- 
sons in the Kandyan territory, and as a declaration that the 
Kandyan law was to continue so to extend, except in the parti- 
cular cases wherein the Ordinance itself introduced new law into 
Kandyan territory, or exempted particular classes of Kandyan 
residents from the operation of the old Kandyan Law. 

If we read the Ordinance with the aid of historical information 
and of comparison with other legislative instruments in pa"i materie, 
the conviction becomes still -stronger that Kandyan Law is not 
limited to Kandyan natives, but extends to cases like the present, 
always supposing that its operation has not been expressly limited 
by any enactment on the subject. 

We, therefore, iu determining the status of the parties here, 
as to community of goods and as to the wife's ability or disability 
to acquire, to hold and to deal with properly independently 



166 

1862. of her husbancl, are bound to a.p'ply the Kandyan Law, as being 
August 14. the law of their actual and matrimonial domicile, and we adjudge 
— accordingly that Mrs. Kershaw had a separate estate in property 

coming to her ; and that she could legally receive and hold pro- 
perty directly from her husband or any one else, whether by way 
of gift or under contract. 

All this is ofcourse subject to the provisions of the Insolvency 
Ordinance which, as has been rightly said in the argument, applies 
to the whole Island, and the operation of which in the present case 
we now proceed to consider. 

All that we hitherto have determined is that Mrs. Kershaw is 
not to be regarded as under a legal disability to receive and hold 
property, or to deal in her own right, such as she would have been 
under, if her matrimonial status were to be regarded according to 
either Roman Dutch or English Law. 

A conveyance to her in fraud of Mr. Kershaw's creditors is 
not protected because she is his wife. The counsel for the assig- 
nees has put this very fairly in the argument on the Elk Cottage 
case (the one in which her marital position is material). He says 
" let Mrs. Kershaw be regarded as a Kandyan wife. She was then 
" one of Mr. Kershaw's creditors, and in conveying Elk Cottage 
" to her. he gave her a fraudulent preference over his other credi- 
" tors." The issue could not have been more fairly or more 
tersely stated. 

The material clauses of the Insolvency Ordinance which we 
have to consider are the 7th, the 56th and the 50th (as will pre- 
sently appear ; the opinion which we hold on the facts of the case 
makes it unnecessary to consider the 51st). 

The general effect of these clauses, as bearing on the present 
case, may be stated to be, that if a person fraudulently transfers 
any part of his property with intent to defeat or delay his creditors, 
Buoh transfer is bad, and is an act of Insolvency ; that any trans- 
action which by the contemporaneous Bankruptcy Law of England 
would be a fraudulent preference of one creditor to others, is to be 
considered a fraudulent preference under our Insolvency Ordinance, 
aud as such is bad, and is an act of insolvency. 

Before however we apply this law to the cases before ns in 
their details, we had better deal with one defence of the Kaipo- 
' galle property, which is set up in the pleadings of the trustees, and 
appears on the face of the deeds of transfer themselves. 

It is said that these conveyances of the Kaipogalle property to 
the trustees for Mrs. Kershaw were executed in pursuance of the 
ante-nuptial contract for a settlement, which was signed and sealed 
between the parties at Guernsey. 

Let us see what the terms of this agreement are. The sub- 
tantial part is as follows ; " It is covenanted and agreed between 



167 

" tlie said parties to these presents, that in case the said Amelia De 1862. 

" Pelly shall survive the said Durand Kershaw, she, the said August. 14. 

" Amelia De Pelly, shall receive during her natural life from the — 

" real and personal estate of the said Durand Kershaw, and in lieu 

" of all thirds, dower or other claim to which she would by law be 

" otherwise entitled, an annuity of £300 sterling, the said annuity 

" to commence from the day of the decease of the said Durand 

" Kershaw, and to be paid quarterly (the first paymentto be made 

" three months after the decease of the said Durand Kershaw) to 

" the said Amelia De Plley, free of all deductions charges or ex- 

"penses whatever, out of the proceeds of the estate of what nature 

" and kind soever which the said Durand Kershaw may leave at 

" decease." 

Now compare with antenuptial agreement the conveyances that 
are said to have been made in pursuance of it. They give a cer- 
tain and immediate benefit to the wife ; the agreement contem- 
plates only a benefit conditional on her surviving her husband, and 
not to commence till after his death. 

The agreement does not charge the estate, which Mr. Kershaw 
then had, or which he might acquire during the marriage, with the 
contingent liability to pay this annuity to Mrs. Kershaw if she 
survives, but especially provides that it shall be paid out of such 
funds as he may leave at his decease. 

The conveyances divest him of part of his estate while he is 
alive : the agreement contemplates that he should have full power 
to deal with it until his death. The obvious intention of such 
agreements, when the husband is engaged in active business which 
requires the free use of capital, is that he should have the unfet- 
tered use of all his funds in carrying on his speculations ; and the 
lady and the lady's friends must be considered as having relied on 
his skill and his good fortune for his success, and on his leaving 
property behind him, out of which his widow could claim her 
annuity. It would give the widow a charge on all the husband's 
assets at his death in preference to any heir or legatee. It would 
enable the wife to prevent the husband from executing any fraudu- 
lent disposition of his property calculated and intended to deprive 
her of her rights over it at his death. There are several cases 
cited and commented on in Atkinson's Conveyancing, p. 823, in 
which the parent of one of the parties entered into an agreement 
of this kind. The principle is the same, as to the power of the 
father in-law of the husband to deal with his property as he pleases 
in his lifetime, as to " altering the nature of it, as to givi'ng scope to 
projects" and the like, although the wife or the daughter-in-law 
has an interest assured to her in what he leaves behind him. 

We cannot hold that the Guernsey antenuptial agreement 
placed Mr. Kershaw under any obligation to convey any of his 



168 

1862. property in the manner in whicli the ti-ansfers of the Kaipogalle 
August. 14. Estate were attempted. It is a well known point in Bankruptcy 
~~ Law that the moral obligation of supporting a wife and children 

cannot, as against creditors, be considered a valid consideration for 
a post-nuptial settlement, when not required by antenuptial agree- 
ment. 

We must pronounce these conveyances of the Kaipogalle pro- 
petty to have been voluntary and without consideration. 

It does not necessarily follow that they were void. In order 
to ascertain their validity or invalidity, we must examinvs the 
insolvent's conduct and financial position at the time when they 
were made. 

In saying that these conveyances are not necessarily void, 
because voluntary, we are following a very valuable judgment of 
Vice-Chancellor Kindersley in the case of Thompson v.. Webste?; 
reported in the 28th vol. new series, of the Law Journal, Chancery 
p. 702. It is a judgment on the validity of a marriage settlement 
under the well-known English statute 1 3 Elizabeth, which statute is 
■ so ably commented on in Smith's Leading Cases vol. i, especially 
in the edition of that work by Mr. Justice Willes and Mr. Justice 
Keating. 

The material words of that statute, Avhioh render void all 
conveyances &c., contrived " to delay, hinder-, or defraud creditors" 
are nearly followed at the end of the 7th clause of our Insolvency 
Ordinance, and the English decisions on the statute are made bind- 
ing authorities on us in this matter by the 58th clause of our 
Ordinance. Vice-Chancellor Kindersley points out that the mere 
voluntariness of a settlement does not per se invalidate it, nor does 
the fact of the grantor being insolvent per se do so. But still they 
are most important facts to ascertain. The question isj whether, 
looking to all the circumstances of a case,- we must conclude that 
the conveyance was made with an intent to " defeat and delay 
creditors." A man must be taken to intend the natural conse- 
quences of his acts. And if we find a man, in insolvent and 
embarassed circumstances, conveying or attempting to convey away 
his property out of his creditors' reach, without there being any 
legal obligation on him to make such a conveyance, the conclusion 
is almost irievitable that he does so with intent to defeat his credi- 
tors of the means or jjart of the means for the payment of his debts 
to them ; and that consequently the conveynnce is an act of insol- 
vency under the Ordinance, and one which his creditors have a 
right to impeach as void against them. 

Now then we must ascertain what were Mr. Kershaw's circum- 
stances near to and at, the time of tlie conveyances. As has been 
mentioned, ]Mr. Kershaw, wlum he settled as a coffee planter at 
Atgalle in ISOIJ, appears to liave possessed considerable jTojjerty. 



]f,9 

His London agents tlien were Messrs. Price and Boustead, and tlie • 1862. 
correspondence between them and him which we have examined August 14. 
very carefully gives very full information as to the subsequent — 

decline of his fortunes. 

It is clear (and it is a fact very much in Mr. Kershaw's favour 
on the question of cei-tificate) that his circumstances became much 
worse in 1857, not through any extravagance or neglect on his 
part, but through the serious effect on the European cofBee market 
of the commercial crisis in that year. This is clearly shewn by a 
letter of Mr. Boustead's, dated 20th October 1857, which we dis- 
covered among the books and papers. At the beginning of 1858, 
Mr. Kershaw was in a far worse position than he had been at the 
beginning of the preceding year; and the letters of his London agents 
to him on the subject become very important, especially when we 
mark the date of the first step taken by Mr. Kershaw towards convey- 
ing any of his property in settlement for his wife. In a letter dated 
22nd January 1858, Mr. Boustead points out to Mr. Kershaw thatthe 
balance against him in their books is £ 9500, having increased by 
more than £5000, during the last twelve months. Mr. Boustead 
complains of this excess, and urges that it may be speedily diminish- 
ed. In another letter, dated 5th February 1858, Mr. Boustead 
complains still more strongly of the large amount in which Mr. Ker- 
shaw had become indebted to them, and of the increase of the 
balance against him by more than £5000 during the year 1857. 
In this letter Mr. Kershaw is warned that this balance must be 
reduced, and his attention is called to the fact of the O. B. C. hav- 
ing announced a change in their rules as to discounting Ceylon 
bills, which Mr. Boustead says is " equivalent to a larger with- 
drawal of capital fi;om houses engaged in business with India and 
Ceylon," and the last words of this letter repeat the warning that 
the London house cannot continue advances to him to the present 
extent. 

Now these two letters must have reached Mr. Kershaw about 
the end of February or early in March, certainly by the middle of 
March 1858. And it is very remarkable that on the 20th of 
March 1858, Mr- Kershaw gave the first instruction to Mr. de 
Saram to prepare a conveyance of half the Kaipagalle Estate to trus- 
tees for Mrs. Kershaw. Mr. De Saram's evidence establishes this. The 
Guernsey antenuptial agreement had been left in Mr. De Saram's 
hands in 1855 ; but he had no instructions to prepare any settle- 
ment until 20th March 1858. It is impossible not to connect the 
date of these instructions with the dates of the receipt of the warn- 
ing and almost menacing letters from the London agents. The 
inference is strong that Mr. Kershaw, on receipt of these letters, 
thought that he was in peril, and that he had better take steps to 
secure some of his property from the reach of his creditors ; a 



170 

18G2. proceeding whicli it is the great object of the Bankruptcy laws to 
August, U. prevent. 

But this date of 20th March 1858, when the instructions for 
the conveyance were given, though an important Hate, is not the 
most important one. The first conveyance was executed on the 
25th May 1859 ; and we must see whether Mr. Kershaw's finan- 
cial position had improved or grown worse in the interval. The 
evidence is irresistible, that throughout this time, the state of his 
affairs had been growing worse and had become more and more 
alarming. A letter of Mr. Boustead's, dated 16th February, repeats 
the warning given in the former letters and apprises Mr. Kershaw 
that a draft of his for £500 had been accepted " for the honor of 
the indorser." A letter of the 24th of March shews the abso- 
lute dishonor of another draft. One of the 9th of April contains 
these expressions : " Two such years as the last and the beginning 
"of this would lead to an absorption of £20,000 ; and without 
" any apparent equivalent in the shape of consignments." The 
same letter raises the rate of interest which he was to pay on the 
balance against him. 

Letters of similar tone follow and shew that Messrs. Price and 
Boustead began to press for security, and the subject of mortgages 
is discussed. In a letter dated 19th March 1859, they tell him 
that " it is quite impossible to assist him further ;" and they state 
their intention to place the correspondence in the hands of one of 
their Agents in Ceylon, with a view to the recovery of their 
claim against him, or of putting it on a more satisfactory 
footing. A letter dated the 26th of the same month informs him 
that they have placed the matter in the hands of Mr. Lee. 

Mr. Lee has been examined as a witness in these cases, and 
we have also letters of his, and letters of tho insolvent to him. 

It appears that Mr. Lee, by letters written from Colombo on 
the 3rd and 8th May 1859 respectively, advised Mr. Kershaw of his 
(Mr. Lee's) being instructed by Price and Boustead, to require 
from Mr. Kershaw a prompt payment of a, large portion of the 
balance, £8418, due to them, and an immediate arrangement for 
the gradual reduction of the residue. 

It is very important to mark these dates of pressure for pay- 
ment on Mr. Kershaw early in May 1859, because it was on the 
25th of that month that Mr. Kershaw executed the first Kaipogalle 
conveyance* It is also a very important fact that in this month of 
May, Mr. Kershaw gave Messrs. Alston Scott & Co., a mortgage for 
£4000 on his estates, not however including that half of Kaipogalla 
which was conveyed in settlement. 

We have not the precise date of the day of the execution of 
this mortgage to Alston Scott & Co., but it is clear from the letters 
alluding to it (and it was admitted in the discu.gsiou before us), 



171 

that the mortgage to them was given aoraetime in that month of 1862. 
May ; and even if not actually execated before the 25th (the date August. 14 
of the Kaipogalle conveyance ), it must have been in contemplation 
and in course of negociation. 

It has been urged on behalf of Mr. Kershaw that his estates 
were unencumbered at the end of 1858, except a mortgage in 
Dickoya for £1000. But a man may be indebted to a far greater 
amount than the value of his estates, without having yet encum- 
bered them ; and it is moreover clear that Mr. Kershaw when he 
signed the Kaipogalle conveyance had already encumbered or knew 
that he was about to encumber the estates on a very considerable 
amount. 

Mr. Kershaw has given evidence to prove his solvency at the 
time. He says that he was worth £3000 at the end of 1858, and 
was worth £2000 at the end of 1859, but he admits that his 
liabilities at the end of 1858, were £17,429 ; and that at the end 
of 1859, they were £19,800. The existence of any surplus assets 
over these large amounts depends (as Mr. Kershaw admits) entirely 
on the accuracy of the valuation which Mr Kershaw has made of 
his cofEee estates He estimated them as worth £22,000 ; but 
Mr. Nicoll and Mr. Lee, two gentlemen well acquainted with such 
matters, have given evidence that they were worth only 
£11,808. The estates actually realized at the sale £9600-; 
but it is in evidence that an advance of £700 was offered 
immediately afterwards. And Colonel Bird has given evidence 
-of their value in 1855 which (as far it goes) would ascribe to 
them a higher value than that given by Mr. Nicoll and Mr. Lee. 
But on the whole, we feel satisfied that Mr. Kershaw's estimate is 
very greatly in excess of the real value ; and that at the time of 
the conveyance of the 25th May 1859, he was in a state of insol- 
vency, and was becoming continually more and more embarassed. 

We form this opinion not only from the facts and figures 
which we have cited, but also from the general effect of a perusal 
of a large mass of other letters, accounts and documents respecting 
his finanqial position. 

"We ought not perhaps to omit to -mention that it was said on 
the part of Mr. Kershaw that he could not have been insolvent at 
the time of the conveyances, because his two chief creditors, the firm 
of Price and Boustead and the firm of Dobree, were willing to 
carry on his estates for him. But that is quite disposed of by the 
evidence of Mr. Lee, who was agent for Price and Boustead. He 
says, " we were willing in conjunction with Dobree & Co., to carry 
on the estates for another year, but it was to be for ours and their 
benefit, and not for that of the unsecured creditors. We do not feel 
it necessary to enter into any detail of Mr. Kershaw's circumstances 
down to, aad at the date of, the conveyance of the second part of 



172 

1862. fcBe Kaipogalle Estate in 1860, because it is indisputable, and it is 
August 14. undisputed, that Mr. Kershaw's affairs had been growing worse and 
worse. 

We bold with respect to both these conveyances that they 
were voluntary conveyances, not having been execuied in conse- 
quence of any obligation. "We hold that they were executed by 
Mr. Kershaw while in a state of insolvency, and with the intent to 
withdrew those portions of his property from his creditor's. We con- 
sequently hold that those conveyances are invalid and that the 
assignees have a right to recover those portions of the estate for the 
benefit of the creditors. 

We now conae to the transaction respecting Elk Cottage, which 
We think is of a different character. The case for Mrs. Kershaw 
is that a legacy had been left to her, and that part of ttie money 
so bequeathed was laid out in the purchase of Elk Cottage from her 
husband, who had previously bought it for himself. We have 
already taken much space and pains to demonstrate Mrs. Kershaw, 
being a Kandyan wife, had all the rights that a. feme sole would 
have under Koman Dutch or English Law, and if the transaction 
was substantially siich as it is described on her behalf to have been, 
it is perfectly legal and valid. Now, there is no doubt whatever 
about the moaey having been left to Mrs. Kershaw or about her 
attorney having received it. There is equal certainty that £550 
of it was paid to Mr. Kershaw's Ageuts, and that their balance 
against Mr. Kershaw was reduced by that amount. Consequently, 
the estate has had the benefit of Mrs. Kershaw's money5 and if pro- 
perty not exceeding the amount of that money has been transferred 
to her, the transfer has not been gratuitous. 

This however is far from being enough to settle the question. 
The counsel for the assignees put the case thus : " we will admit 
for the sake of argument Mrs. Kershaw to have been a Kandyan 
wife, with full right to separate estate. When her money was paid 
to her husband's agents on his behalf, she became one of his 
creditors. But he being in embarassed circumstances and in con- 
templation of formal insolvency had no right to prefef her to his 
other creditors. The conveyance of Elk cottage to her was a 
fraudulent preference, and as such is void." 

If this position could be maintained, the assignees would have 
a clear right to the property, but on careful examination of the 
facts, we do not think that this position is tenable. 

Here, as in the other part of the case, strict attention to dates 
is all-important. 

In April 1860, Mr. Kershaw bought Elk cottage of Mr. Ma- 
cartney. The price was £110, of which £10 was paid at the 
time. On the 26th of May, the relative of Mr. Kershaw who left 
her the money died at Guernsey. News of her death and of her 



173 

having left a share of some of her property to Mr. Kershaw, would 18G2- 
have been received before the end of the following month. The August, 14. 
exact amount of the legacy was not then known, but it appears 
from the correspondence between Mr. Kershaw and Messrs. Dobree 
(who had become Mr. Kershaw's agent), and from that between 
Mr. Kershaw and Mr. Cfrey (who acted as attorney for Mrs. Ker- 
shaw in Guernsey), that Mrs. Kershaw's share was expected to be 
about £700, and it was thought this money would be paid by the 
executor to her attorney for her before the end of 1860. 

On the 10th January 1861, Mr. Kershaw pays Mr. Macartney 
the £100 balance of the purchase money of Elk cottage, and 
receives the title deeds which the vendor had until then retained 
as security although the conveyance to Mr. Kershaw had been 
executed soon after the bargain. It is to be observed that it is 
proved by a letter filed in this case that Mr. Macartney was in- 
formed by Mr. Kershaw that the purchase was being made with 
Mrs. Kershaw's money. 

On the 18th January 1861, Mr Kershaw instructs the proctor 
to prepare a conveyance of Elk Cottage from himself to Mrs. Ker- 
shaw. On the 4th February following, the conveyance is executed. 
There was some discrepancy of evidence between Mr. Kershaw and 
Mr. Ferdinands the proctor, as to when the directions for this con- 
veyance were given, but we think from the notes on the subject 
filed after the parol examination, it is clear that definite instruc- 
tions to prepare the conveyance were not given before the 18th Ja- 
nuary, but thatthe subject had been mentioned by Mr. Kershaw as 
early as the previous September. We found among the books and 
papers a series of letters beginning as early as 2nd February 1861 
from Kershaw to Mr. DufE of the Oriental Bank Corporation here 
negotaiting an advance of money on mortgage of Elk Cottage. 
These appeared at first very unfavourable to Mr. Kershaw, as it 
seemed that he tried to raise the money on the property as if 
his own, after he had conveyed it away. 

But Mr. Kershaw's and Duff's examinations have completely 
dispelled this prejudice. The mortgage was to have been by way 
of bond from Mrs. Kershaw, and Mr. DufE states that he was all 
through the transactions throughly aware that the cottage have 
been bought for Mrs. Kershaw with Mrs. Kershaw's money, and 
was Mrs. Kershaw's property. 

Now the £550, balance of the legacy, after certain payments 
on Mrs. Kershaw's accouut in Guernsey, was not paid in at Dobree's 
until the 10th January 1861, and the first letter advising Mr. Ker- 
shaw of such payment is dated in London as of January 19 th, and 
could not have been received by Mr. Kershaw before the date of 
the conveyance of Elk Cottage to Mr. Kershaw. 

We cannot therefore see how Mr. Kershaw is to be looked oli 



174 

1862. as having conveyed property- to a person wliom he knew to have 
August, 14. previously become a creditor of his and whom he was preferring to 
his other creditors. 

We think that the case set up on the other side is substantial- 
ly true. Undoubtedly no specific remittances of money from 
London to Ceylon took place ; and the whole business was conduct- 
ed in a manner that has not unnaturally created suspicion. But 
we must remember that Mr. and Mrs. Kershaw, though having 
separate estates, were husband and wife, between whom the same 
strictness and formality in business transactions that would be 
looked for is not to be expected. 

We think that when it was known that a legacy somewhere 
approaching £600 was coming to Mrs. Kershaw, it was arranged and 
understood that the money or a large part of it should be invested 
for her in property in Ceylon by Mr. Kershaw ; that he should 
make the disbursements here for her, and that he should be paid 
by Mr. Kershaw's agent placing the money to his account at 
Dobree's. 

There is one circumstance connected with this part of the case 
which it is better to deal with here, both because it tends to shew 
that the transaction was bona fide, and because if we deferred it, 
we should have to repeat much when we come to settle the question 
of certificate. Mr. Kershaw on examination before us stated, that 
as soon as he was advised of the payment of the legacy money into 
Dobree's, he credited Mrs. Kershaw with it in the account between 
her and himself which he kept. 

He referred to his ledger as shewing this. The ledger (p. 
208) has an entry such as Mr. Kershaw mentions dated as of 10th 
January. It was pointed out that this entry follows in the page 
entries dated of March and May in that year, and could not have 
been a contemporaneous entry. 

Mr. Kershaw explained this by saying that he wrote the entry 
when he received a formal account from Dobree's crediting him 
with the £550, as paid in by Mrs. Kershaw's attorney to his account 
but that he re-entered it as of the date when the payment was made 
in London. We have found among the papers in the case an 
account of Dobree's made up to 17th April 1861, in which the 
payment of the £550 on the 10th of January is properly credited. 

This appears to have been the first regular and correct amount 
received from them since the payment. Their preceding letter 
which mentioned the payment gave an evidently wrong amount and 
contained evidently blunders as to the amount of other sums, 
which Mr. Kershaw observed and complained of. This amount of 
the 17 th of April would reach himm the course of May, and we find 
that the entry as to the £550 in the ledger stands between some 
May entries (no days of the month are given) and an entry of 



175 

£88. 3s. 6d. in Mr. Kershaw's favor for profit on the sale of an 1862. 
estate, which we know from other sources to have been accounted in August. 14. 
June. We think the entry as to the- £550 an honest entry. When — 

it was made, the conveyance of Elk Cottage had already been exe- 
cuted. In the course of the examination about the ledger, some 
rough books were mentioned, which Mr. Kershaw said it was his 
habit to keep, but which he used to destroy when he made up his 
ledger. 

It does not seem that any of these rough books would have 
thrown light on the matter in question ; but Mr. Kershaw inciden- 
tally mentioned that after his insolvency he had destroyed some 
of them. This sounded like a serious matter, and we felt it our 
duty to enquire into it. It turned out that Mr. Kershaw's books, 
when he became insolvent, were not regularly made up to date. 
The assignees left these books with him requesting him to make 
them up. This he did and according to custom destroyed the 
rough books after he had posted their contents in the ledgers. 
The whole proceeding was very irregular. Assignees ought to be 
most strict as to the custody of books and papers, and the Insol- 
vent ought not to be allowed to add anything, to alter anything, 
or to destroy anything, though he must have proper access to the 
books for the purpose of preparing his balance sheet. But the 
irregularity of the Insolvent seems to have been caused by the 
irregularity of his assignees, and we do not think him amenable to 
the heavy penalties which the law justly imposes on the wilful 
garbling or alteration or destruction of books by Insolvents. 

It was said that Mrs. Kershaw's money could not have been 
used for the purchase of Elk cottage, because it had been employed 
in the purchase of the Hariison estate, which was afterwards sold 
at a profit. We think it enough to say that we agree with the 
District Court Judge in thinking that a comparative examination 
of dates and sums does not support this objection. 

Mrs. Kershaw's action is for Elk cottage only, not for its fur- 
niture. The purchase money of the cottage was £110, but 
Mr. Kershaw had been repairing and improving the building for a 
long time before and after the transfer to .Mrs. Kershaw, he had 
also placed various articles of furniture in it. His statement is 
that all this was done for Mrs. Kershaw with Mrs. Kershaw's 
money., leaking the view we have done of the main transaction, 
we think that this statement is to be regarded as, substantially 
correct. The total amount of the money laid out in and for this 
cottage exceeds by very little the £550 received for the very legacy 
and this surplus is more than accounted for by other credits in 
Mrs. Kershaw's favour. 

The present action is brought by Mr. Kershaw in respect of 
the Cottage only ; but we think that the assignees will do well not 
to raise any dispute about the furniture. 



176 

1862. "We ttink it right to state that the opinion whioh we have 

August, 14. expressed as to Mrs. Kershaw's rights in respect of Elk Cottage has 
"~ been the gradual result of repeated examination not only of the 

parol evidence, but of numerous letters, accounts and other docu- 
ments, which it is impossible to refer to in detail. Our opinion 
was at first unfavourable as to Mr. Kershaw's conduct in this 
transaction, but the more closely we have examined the better 
complexion it has assumed. 

It remains for us to consider the objection to the certificate. 
The assignees do not oppose. The opposition comes from two 
creditors, whose claims against the insolvent, chiefly for rice suppli- 
ed, are very heavy. Their grounds of opposition as used before 
the District Court' Judge were (1) concealment of property. There 
is nothing to support this objection except an answer of the Insol- 
vent's in one of the oases, that he believed he had a reversionary 
interest in some property in England, but that he did not know 
what his interest was, or its amount, and that there was a lawsuit 
about it. We quite agree with the District Court Judge in con- 
sidering that the non-insertion in the schedule of such a visionary 
chance of uncertain benefit as this is not a concealment of property 
by the Insolvent as the Ordinance designed to be punished by de- 
nial of certificate. We will add that a creditor, who means to 
oppose on such a ground as this, ought to examine much more 
searchingly about it. It is not fair to ask one or two vague 
que.stions, and then to seemingly let the matter drop as if immate- 
rial, but to reserve it to be urged against grant of certificate. 

The second objection is a charge that the Insolvent obtained 
supplies from the opposing creditors, on the faith of his being 
owner of property which he had parted with. 

This, if true, would be a very serious matter, but there is no 
proof of it, though, if true, the opposing creditors might themselves 
have easily proved it. They gave no evidence at all. 

The next is that the Insolvent treated Price and Boustead un- 
fairly. But Price and Boustead do not oppose him, and in the 
absence of any opposition by them or of any opportunity of 
examining them, we cannot withhold the certificate for supposed 
wrongs towards them. 

The fourth ground of opposition was on account of the frau- 
dulent disposal of Elk Cottage and the Kaipogalle property. We 
have held that the conveyances of the Kaipogalle property were 
void and fraudulent in the sense in which the word is used in 
Bankruptcy Law ; but it by no means follows that Mr. Kershaw's 
conduct in that transaction shews that decree of moral fraud which 
would justify us in applying against him the penal clauses of the 
insolvency ordinance. 

The existence of the antenuptial Guernsey agreement, though 



177 

We hold that it does not legally sustain the post-nuptial conVeyan- 1862. 
ces, is a circumstance entitled to much weight, when we look at August 2b. 
the general character of the affair, to see whether his conduct in it 
is such as to make him unworthy of a certificate. And in reading 
this point we must also have regard to his general behaviour as a 
trader. No extravagance, no negligence is imputed to him. 

It is clear that his misfortunes originated in causes beyond his 
control in the commercial panic in Europe in 1857, and that they 
were grievously increased by matters beyond his control by a 
succession of bad seasons for the coffee crops. 

Having regard to all the circumstances, and specially bearing 
in mind that his assignees do not oppose him, we see no reason for 
altering the adjudication of the District Court Judge as to certifi- 
cate. 

The judgment in case No. 85 will be that the order of the 
District Court Judge is affirmed. 

The judgment in case No. 36105 will be that the judgment of 
the District Court, declaring Mrs. Kershaw the proprietor of the 
messuage and premises in the libel mentioned and quieted in 
possession thereof, be affirmed. 

The judgment in No. 36592 will be that the judgment of the 
District Court for the defendant be set aside, and judgment enter- 
ed for the plaintiffs as prayed. Costs of the assignees to be paid 
out of the estate. 



S6th August. 
Present: — Creasy C._ J. 



No^'4:3262' I Haliaey v. Juan et al. 



The conviction of the defendants in this case, instituted by the Customs Ord. 
Collector of Customs, was quashed in these terms by the Supreme ■^°' ■*:* °-^ ^^^^ 
Court:— [17ofl869, 

This is a proceeding before the Police Magistrate against the cl. 108] — 
defendants for breach of § 88 of Ordinance No, 18 of 1852. -uri^diotion— 

That section epecifies a number of acts and concludes as reduction oi 
follows, — penalty — 

" Then and in every such case, the party so offending shall [cl. 115 of 
be guilty of an offence, and shall for every such offence forfeit any '^'^^ "V^mI^ 
sum not exceeding £100, nor less than £10." , —"shall"— 

There was abundant evidence of facts in this case, and the plaint by 
magistrate convicted the defendants and fined them £10 each. wliom to be 

It is objected to this conviction that the Police Magistrate ex- ^^*'^' 
ceeded his jurisdiction in fining to that amount. The Queen's Advo- 



178 

1862. cate replies that the objection i:an Toe cured Ly dimluisliing tLe 

August. 14 amounts of the penalties to £5, as the certificate, required hy the 

13th section of the Police Ordinance No. 13 of 1861, had been pre- 

serited, and the Supreme Court has power under the 25th section 

of that ordinance to make such amendment. 

I agree with the Queen's Advocate and would accordingly up- 
hold the conviction with a reduction of the penalty, were it not for 
another objection which has been taken to the legality of the con- 
viction. " All penalties and forfeitures which shall be incurred 
under this ordinance shall and may be sued for and recovered in 
the name of the Queen's Advocate in the respective Courts of this 
Island, in like manner as other cases therein " § 96. [See § 115 of 
Ordinance No, 17 of 1869.] 

In this case before me, the proceedings were not instituted by 
or in the name of the Queen's Advocate and the fact of the prosecu- 
tor being the comptroller of customs can legally make no difference. 

I think this objection fatal. The proceeding is clearly one 
" to recover a penalty," and I am bound to give effect to the im- 
jierative word " shall " in the 96th section,, imless there is anything 
in the text of the ordinance to shew that the words ought to be 
read as permissive or directory only. I do not find in the ordinance 
anything of the kind ; and there seems to be a substantial reason 
for limiting the right of prosecution for penalties under the 
ordinance to the Queen's Advocate or those who act under him. 
The ordinance has many very strong (and very proper) provisions 
in favour of the prosecutor as to burden of proof and other matters. 
Such unusual privileges may be safely allowed where the prose- 
cutor is an officer whose legal station is a guarantee for the 
propriety of his acts. But prosecution for these penalties might be 
made the engines of great oppression and extortion, if any and 
every person were allowed to institute them. 

Conrirtioii qiiashcd. 



29th September. 
Present: — Creast, C. J., 8TERLiN(i J., and Temple, J. 



f. Colombo, 
Xo. 647 40^ 



' > Senanayike v. Rarenchy. 



•The following is the judgment of the Supreme Court : — 

Dishirbing In this case defendant and appellant was convicted for dis- 

puhlic wor- turbing the performance of public worship in a chapel at 

v>''\ is'iR f I'^pl^ipoii'^f' ^^'^ molesting the congregation. 

■.M [lU uJ' I'stiS '-'-"liE' 'hnrge was at first laid under the 20 th clause of ordi- 



179 

nance 17 of 1844, and by an amendment, it was also laid under 1862. 
§ 24 of ordinance 12 of 1846. Sept. 29. 

As no in-ooi was given that the chapel in question was one of ., 

the particular description of churches contemplated by the last _nature of 

mentioned ordinance, the conviction could r»ot in the present state service 

■ of the proceedings be maintained as under that last ordinance. " any place of 
The Supreme Court confines its attention to the ordinance No. 17 christian wor- 
of 1844, the § 36 of which is as follows,— ^'^P-" 

" And it is further enacted that every person who shall under 
any pretence whatever, either within, or from without, any place of 
Christian worship, disturb the performance of public worship 
therein, or in any way during such performance molest any of the 
congregation, shall be guilty of an ofEence, and be liable on convic- 
tion thereof, to any penalty not exceeding £5, or imprisonment 
with or without hard labour for any period not exceeding three 
months." 

It was first objected that at the time of the defendant's mis- 
conduct in the chapel, the minister was lecturing to his congrega- 
tion, and that the delivering of a lecture did not amount to the 
performance of public worship ; but it was in evidence that the 
minister, was expounding a chapter in the Bible, and whether such 
a discourse is called a lecture or a sermon can make no diflference ; 
it was also in evidence that the congregation was assembled to join 
in prayer as well as to receive instruction from their minister ; 
and the Supreme Court think it clear that when a Christian con- 
gregation is assembled in their regular place of worship to join in 
public prayer, and to listen to the religious exhortation of their 
minister they are assembled for the performance of public worship 
within the meaning of the ordinance, and that any person who 
molests them during such performance is liable to punishment. 

The objection however based on the nature of the service was not 
the main objection in the case. It was urged that this ordinance 17 of 
1844 (commonly known as the Police ordinance) appliesonly to places 
where a police force has been established under the provisions of 
the second section. Unquestionably the preamble has regard only 
to police in town, and all the clauses of the ordinance, except that 
which We are now considering, and except the 82nd which directs the 
side of the road to be observed in driving, are expressly confined to 
" such towns and limits " as a police force is established in. But 
the words of the clause before us are general. It makes it punish- 
able to create a disturbance " in any place of Christian worship," 
not " in any place of Christian worship within such towns or 
limits." The words of the Ordinance are ample enough to reach 
the mischief in the present case, and the Supreme Court do not 
think that it ought to control them by reference to the clauses 
which are worded differently, or because they go beyond the 
preamble of the Ordinance. 



180 

1862. With regard to the last point, the Supreme Court gladly adopt 

Sept. 29. the language of Lord Denman in Felloivs v. Clay, 4 Queen's Bench 
Reports : — 

" Supposing the enacting words clear, there is no line of rea- 
soning so dangerous as that which would deprive the statute law of 
its fair meaning, or in other words repeal an act of Parliament by 
a judicial construction founded on the mere fact that the remedy 
provided is more extensive than the eyil to be cured. It is enough 
to say in general terms, on this doctrine, that the mischief is but 
the motive for legislation, and the remedy may both consistently 
and wisely be extended, beyond the mere cure of that evil, to every 
provision which the most comprehensive view of the law, the state 
of manners and of society at large, may appear expedient." 

The con^'iction is affirmed. 



TV " 1 SS9 ' ( Worthmgton v. Raphiel, 

The following judgments were delivered in this case: — - 

Master and Temple, J., — This is a conviction under the 7th clause of 

servant — Ord. Ordinance 5 of 1841 for disobedience of orders in defendant absent- 
No. 6 of 1841, jjjg liimself from his mistress's house without reasonable cause, 
otl^'ot °^ tlie night of nth August 1862. 

orders. There are some irregularities m the proceedings, as the mak- 

Practice — ing Valoo Armogam the complainant on behalf of Miss Worthing- 

irregularities ton, and the not dismissing the case on the 15th and re-opening it 

— ylamt by ^^ ^-^^ 18th. The former irregularity I consider was amended on 

laid ^power *^s 18th by Miss Wdrthington being made the prosecutrix under 

of Court to the 24th clause of the Rules. And as to the re-opening of the case, 
re-open order the 1.3th clause of the Rules allows the Magistrate to adjourn the 
^f dismissal jjg^ring on the complainant's absence, instead of dismissing the case, 
of plaint. ^^^ although the Police Magistrate may not have strictly foUowep 
that rule, be seems to have acted under it. The substantial rights 
of the defendant have in no way been prejudiced, and he has 
waived any objection he might have made by subsequently plead- 
ing to the charge without objection. 

As to the merits,, the defendant admits his absence, and it is 
clear from the evidence that when he went home he did not intend 
to return that night, nor has he shewn reasonable cause for absent- 
ing himself; his wife may have been unwell, but he has failed to 
shew that anything serious was the matter with her, and he never 
mentioned his ivife's illness to Miss Worthington as an excuse for 



181 

his absence. I think therefore that the finding of the Police Court 1862- 
ahould be affirmed. Sept. 29. 

Steklisg, J., — I concur in the judgment of my brother Temple, 
inasmuch as I conceive the mere practical irregularity is cured by 
the reasons a,ssigned, and as, on reading the evidence, I had a strong 
and certain conviction that the defence was untrue. 

Ceeasy, C. J., (dissenting) — I am of opinion that this conviction 
should be quashed. I think that there was a substantial fault in the 
original plaint, the root of the whole proceeding. It was a complaint 
" by Valoo Arumugam on behalf of Miss Worthington." Any per- 
son may be the complainant in a Police Court case (Rule 1, 
Shedule A, Ordinance 18 of 1861), but I know of no authority for 
one person to prefer a complaint which is expressed to be on be- 
half of another. The proceedings when so foamed do not shew on 
the face of them (as I think they should do) who is the party that 
institutes the prosecution, whether it is Miss Worthington who 
institutes it through the agency of Arumugam, or whether it is 
Valoo Arumugam who institutes it out of regard for Miss Wor- 
thington's interest. I think the defendant has a right, and a 
substantial riglit, to know at once who it is that is instituting the 
prosecution, and who it is that is liable under the 21st clause of 
the Police Court Ordinance to be fined and to pay the defendant's 
expenses, if the prosecution is held by the Magistrate to have been 
instituted on false, frivolous or vexatious grounds. I am of course 
not to be understood as saying that this particular prosecution was 
instituted on false frivolous or vexatious grounds. I think quite 
the other way. But the necessity of substantial compliance with 
the requirements of the Police Court Ordinance is a matter of 
general principle, and decisions on it should not vary according to 
the supposed merits of the parties in particular cases. I think also 
that when on the 18th August, the day appointed for the hearing, 
no complainant appeared, the complaint should have been dismissed 
or the complainant noticed according to the 13th rule of the Eulea 
and Orders, and I think that the Magistrate had no authority to re- 
■open the case, as he did, on the 18th at the complainant's instance. 
Special powers to re-open are specially given to District Courts and 
Courts of Requests by Ordinance and Rules of Court confirmed 
by Ordinance. But no power to re-open cases is given by Ordi- 
nance .or Rule of Court to Police Courts, and I consider that they 
do not possess any. I also greatly doubt the power of the 
Magistrate to amend the plaint, as was done, by striking out all 
about Valoo Arumugam, so that Miss Worthington only appeared 
as prosecutrix. I do not think that this is a kind of amendment, 
such as the 24th Rule contemplates. I have already pointed out 
how substantially important it is for the accused to know at once 
who his adversary is ; and I may observe that the rules require • 



182 

1862. that the summons, which in the first instance Is served upon the 
Sept. 29. defendant, shall contain the uanie and residence of the complainant. 
■ It seems to me useless, and worse than useless, to give him this in- 

formation, if when he comes before the Magistrate, another com- 
plainant is to be substituted. I do^not think that these eVrors were 
cured bj the defendants pleading to the amended plaint. I cannot 
feel that it is our duty to apply the subtle doctrine of defects cured 
by pleading over, to the proceedings in Police Courts. The defen- 
dants' in such proceedings are generally poor and uneducated 
persons without the means of procuring legal advice, and them- 
selves utterly ignorant of legal forms and processes. If the 
proceedings against them have been so faulty as to have deprived 
them of any substantial safeguard or privilege which the law meant 
to give them, I think that the Supreme Court should protect, them 
by quashing convictions based on such proceedings, whatever may 
have been the subsequent pleadings. Indeed unless the Court does 
so interfere, I do not see how any adherence to the Police Court 
Ordinances as to process can be secured. Defendants are sure in 
99 cases out of 100 to plead over: and if this is to cure all faults, 
a most mischievous laxity of practice is most likely to be' introduc- 
ed, and great practical hardship is likely to be inflicted on accused 
persons. 

There has also in my opinion been an error, a substantial 
error, in applying the evidence taken in the case. I am of course 
not going to lose sight of the clause of the Police Court Ordinances 
which limits our power in appeal to questions of law. But if the 
convicting Magistrate had considered the evidence with reference 
not to the true point in the case, but to a collateral point, an error 
in law has been effected, just as if a judge in Engla,nd were, in 
summing up the facts to a jury, to direct them to give their verdict 
according to the opinion which they might form on a particular 
point, such point not being the real one, on which the decision ought 
to turn. 

The main facts of the case as proved for the prosecution may 
be briefly stated. On the 11 August, the proseeutrix gave orders 
to the defendant, who was her head-servant, that he was to sleep 
in the house that night. No objection was made to the order, and 
the prosecutrix, an English lady, in the absence of her brother, 
required the safeguard of her servants being in the house. The 
defendant was to go to his own house that evening to get his sup- 
per and was then to return to his employer's house and remain 
there. He knew that tea would be wanted at 5 next morning, as 
his mistress was going then to join a boating party of some of her 
friends. The defendant told another servant to prepare the morn- 
ing tea and went away, but did not return to tlio house as ordered. 
His mistress did not see him there till 11. 80, the next day. Ac- 
cording to a witness for thu dcl'cucc, he came to the house a httle 



183 

before G in tlie morning, but certainly he was absent all night. 1862. 
J lis absence caused considerable inconvenience to his mistress: he Sept. 29. 
made no excuse for it, and she did not hear anything about any 
illness in his family, till that defence was set up by him at the 
trial in the Police Court. It was proved that he had before this 
occasion repeatedly'disobeyed orders. And I think that, though it 
would have been more correct if the proof had been given by men- 
tioning specific instances of previous disobedience and not by a 
general statement, such statement was substantially admissible. It 
was material to ascertain whether the defendant's not fulfilling his 
mistress's order in this case was wilful and without reasonable 
excuse ; and I think that it comes within the class of cases, such as 
cases of maliciously killing, of receiving property with guilty 
knowledge, and others, which will be found in 1 Taylor on Evidence, 
34, 2 Eussel on Crimes, 777, where in order to ascertain the exis- 
tence of a guilty animus, evidence of other guilty acts of the same 
kind is (under certain restrictions) admitted by law. 

That under the circumstances above stated. Miss Worthington 
should write to the nearest Police Magistrate, complaining of her 
servant's misconduct seems to me perfectly natural and proper, nor 
do I see that the Police Magistrate committed any impropriety in 
advising her to have proceedings taken under the Ordinance appli- 
cable to such a charge. Such advice not prejudicing the merits of 
the case: it merely amounts to saying to the complainant " if you 
want this matter investigated before me, the following is the mode 
of doing so." 

But I must turn to the defence set up by the defendant, and 
see whether that defence has been considered by the Magistrate as 
bearing on the real point in the case. The accused called four 
witnesses, whose evidence, as I read it, proves that about 9 p. m. 
of the 11th (which would be about the time when the defendant 
was to return from his supper at his own house to hia mistress's) 
the defendant's wife was ill and that he fetched a doctor to attend 
her. She was in the family way and near the time of her confine- 
ment. She does not appear to have been very ill ; and the doctor 
did not think it necessary to remain there more than half an hour. 
There is no proof that she had Cholera, as asserted by the appel- 
lant in his petition of appeal ; indeed, before the Magistrate, he 
only said that his wife was ill. But I think that the evidence 
adduced by him does shew that, considering the woman's condition 
there was that amount of illness, which might make her husband 
naturally and fairly think it hia duty to stay by his wife to attend 
to her, and to be ready to bring the doctor back, if shew gi-ew 
worse. If his not returning to his mistress's house was caused by 
these facts and feelings, I do not think that he was punishable 
under this Ordinance. 



184 

18G2. The JIagisti-ate in his judgment says " I am perfectly satisfied 

Sept. 20. " from the accused's own statement, that when he left his mistress's 
~" " house, he had no intention whatever of returning hefore the 

" morning, notwithstanding Miss Worthington's order that he 
" should sleep at her house as he had engaged to do ; otherwise, 
" he would not have delivered her orders, intended for himself j to 
" the second servant, to have tea ready in the following morning 
" by 5 o'clock, to enable her to go out boating as she had engaged 
" to do with Mr. Polkard, and his refraining from her any explana- 
" tion of Ms conduct, in thus disobeying her orders, clearly shews 
" not only his want of proper respect for his mistress, but an 
" amount of indifference towards her closely bordering on imperti- 
" nence, and which it is very necessary should be put down and 
" punished." 

Now it appears to me that the Magistrate was confining his 
attention to what was the defendant's intention at the time when 
he, the defendant, left his mistress's house to get his supper ; and 
he adjudicates that he, the defendant, at that time intended to dis- 
obey her orders. I accept, because I am bound to accept, the express 
finding of the Magistrate on a matter of fact. But this does not, 
at least, it ought not to, determine the case. The defendant did 
not disobey orders by leaving the house to go home to get his sup- 
per. The disobedience in the case was the not returning. When 
he left the house, he committed no offence ; but he is found to 
have intended the future commission of an offence. But no princi- 
ple of criminal jurisprudence is more certain than that mere intent 
is not in itself an offence punishable as the commission of an 
offence by our tribunals, The time for the commission of the offence 
was when the time came for the man's return "after supper to his 
mistress's house ; and before that time had come we see (unless we 
reject the evidence for the defence) that a state of things had arisen 
which gave him a fair reason for not returning according to orders. 
I do. not feel bound, I do not feel at liberty to reject the evidence 
for the defence. The Magistrate does not in his judgment, or in. 
any of the proceedings before us which form the regular record 
state that he disbelieved the witnesses. I take the wife's illness, 
such as before described as a fact in the case ; and it seems to me 
that there has not been an adjudication, that the man in remaining 
at home with his sick wife uninfluenced by the fact of his wife's 
illness and was acting in mere pursuance of his original intent to 
disobey his witness. His omission to tell his mistress the next 
■morning of his wife's illness does not seem to be conclusive against 
him. His mistress did not ask him why he had been absent. His 
fellow-servant appears to have asked him the question, and it 
appears that he did tell his fellow-servant that he did not return, at 
the appointed time, because his wife was ill. 



185 



After the appeal waa lodged, two documents liave teen sent to 
tis, one a petition from ihe brother of the prosecutrix, and the other 
a letter from the Magisti-ate, complaining of the comments of the 
press on the case, and justifying the conduct of the prosecutrix and 
of the convicting Magistrate. 

I do not think that either of the parties to an appeal, or the 
judge whose decision is appealed against, or indeed that any person 
whatsoever, ought to address such communications to this court, 
and I have paid no attention to them in considering his case. Our 
judgmont-s are based solely on the records and proceedings that are 
brought regularly before us. We sonaetimes ask for further ex- 
planation from the judges whose decisions we review, and every 
attention is paid to information given in answer to such requests. 
But I do not think that comments on the case ought to be volun- 
teered, even by the Magistrate ; and from any other quarter they are 
wholly inadmissible. 

I am expressing the opinion of my learned brothers, as well 
as my own, as to the impropriety of such communications being 
made to us. With regard to the case before us, in my judgment 
the conviction ought to be quashed; but as a majority of this court 
think differently, the judgment of the convicting magistrate will 
stand affirmed. 



1862. 
Novr. 7. 



cession — 
alienation. 



7th Novemder. 

Present: — Ckeast, C. J., Steuling, J., and Temple, J. 

N iQj.''^ I ^('f>^<^pc^ci Tei'unanse v. Rewitte Terunanse. et al. 

Fer Curiam : — In this case, one Sangarakkitte Terunnanse by a Vihare pro' 
deed in 1812 granted certain vihare property to his three pupils, perty— sue 
and the one-third now in question came in regular succession to 
one Sidharte Terunnanse as a pupil of one of the original gran- 
tees; he however tiled without any pupil, and before his death con- 
veyed his interest in the vihare property, by a deed dated 24th 
July 1857 to the plaintiff, a stranger ; and the question for deci- 
sion is whether Sidharte Terunnanse could thus convey away his 
interest in the property to a stranger, or whether, he nut having 
left any pupil, it .should not revert to the other two original grantees 
and their pu])ils in succession. This question dei)ends entirely upon 
the construction to be put upon the deed of 1812, which the 
Supreme Court considers expressly declares that the property there- 
by granted shall descend from pupil to pupil in succession. 



186 



1862. 

Novr. 7. 

Execution — 
criminal 
process — 
Sentence of 
death — war- 
rant for 
execution — 
escape of 
prisoner — re- 
arrest — 
application 
by Queen's 
Advocate 
for habeas 



power of 

Supreme 

Court — rule 

to order 

execution. 



In re conviction of Valaidepody for murder. 

The Queen's Advocate filed affidavit of Mr. John Morphew 
and Mr. Thomas Wambeck, and moved thereupon for a writ of 
habeas corpus to the deputy Fiscal of Batticaloa to bring up, or 
cau.se to be brought up, the prisoner Valaidepody, tried and con- 
victed of murder at the last sessions held in Batticaloa, in order 
that execution might be awarded by the Court and a day appointed 
for that purpose. He further moved that the Deputy Fiscal of 
Batticaloa be directed to send to this Court the Calendar signed by 
the Judge at the last sessions held at Batticaloa, and the Governor's 
warrant for the execution of the prisoner. 

The following order was made by the Supreme, Court: — 

This prisoner was on the 24th August last tried and convicted 
for murder at the. criminal session of this Court held at Battitiloa 
in the course of the last Northern Circuit. Sentence of death was 
passed on him by the judge who tried the case in the form thathas 
long been used in this Island, directing execution to take place at 
the common place of execution in the District of Batticaloa between 
the hours of 9 and 11 in the forenoon of the 6th October then next. 

A report of the case with a copy of the evidence was duly 
sent immediately after trial to the Governor, who appears to have 
considered the case to be one in which it was iit that the law 
should take its course; and (in accordance with long "stablished 
custom in such cases) a written warrant signed by the Governor 
for the execution of the sentence, at the time and place named in 
the judge's sentence, was sent to the Fiscal. 

Preparations were made by the Piscal" for the execution of the 
sentence on the 6th of October, but on the morning of that day, 
the prisoner escaped from gaol, but was re-taken in the evening. 

The execution not having been performed on the day which 
had been specified both in the judge's sentence and in the Governor's 
warrant, and the prisoner having been for a time (though only for a 
short time) out of the Fisoal's custody, the present motion is made 
to the Supreme Court; and it is made with the avowed purpose of 
applying to this court, when the prisoner is brought before it, for 
a rule to order the execution. 

This is done on the analogy of several cases that have occur- 
red in England, where difiiculties have arisen as to the execution of 
capital sentence. In such cases, the prisoners and the records of 
their trials having been brought before the Court of Queen's Bench 
by habeas and certiorari, that court " being the Supreme Court of 
criminal jurisdiction " (see Chitty's Criminal Law, i. p 698) has 
awarded execution, and has exercised a discretionary power of 
directing in what county the execution should take place. The 
case Rex v^ Garside, 2 Ad, and El. p 266, is the latest of these 



187 

cases, and the whole subject was on that occasion very fully dis- 1862. 
cussed and considered. Novr. 7. 

We have no doubt as to the Supreme Court of Ceylon possess- 
ing a power analogous to that exercised by the Queen's Bench in 
England. The Charter in clause 3 directs that "the entire 
administration of justice, civil and criminal, in the Island shall be 
vested exclusively in the Courts created by the Charter," with some 
reservations as to the Admiralty Courts which are immaterial here. 
The 5th clause appoints that there shall be one Supreme Court in 
the Island ; and the 31st clause grants to the Supreme Court 
" power, jurisdiction and authority to hold an original jurisdiction 
for inquiring of all crimes and offences committed throughout the 
said Island, and for the hearing, trying and determining all pro- 
secutions which shall be ooinmenoed against any person for or in 
respect of any such crimes or offences or alleged crimes and 
offences." 

The power of ensuring and enforcing the execution of 
sentences is obvioiisly necessary for the administration of criminal 
justice. Without it, all other powers v/culd be idle ; and the 
pei'versity, the caprice or the negligence of an inferior officer of the 
executive might baffle the arm of the law, and secure impunity 
for the worst of offenders. We decide unhesitatingly that this 
court has the power to grant the writs now asked for for the pur- 
pose mentioned ; and as in the case of the King v Garside, the 
court of King's Bench held that the attorney-general, moving on 
behalf of the crown, was entitled to the writs as of course, we feel 
bound to hold that the advocate-general here, moving on behalf of 
the Crown, is entitled to the writs as of course, if he demands them. 

We at first thought it would be necessary for us to go at once 
into the, whole subject of the effect of the words as to the time and 
place in the sentence passed on this occasion, and as to the effect 
of the Governor's warrant. If it had been quite clear to us that 
the Fiscal had still authority and was still bound to execute the 
sentence at the first convenient opportunity, and that no legal right 
of the prisoner could be prejudiced by such a course, we should 
have suggested to the learned Queen's Advocate the expediency 
of first ascertaining, whether the Fiscal would not, on being informed 
of the judgment to this Court, proceed at once to do his duty and 
execute the sentence at Batticaloa, and of so avoiding, if possible, 
the delay and risk of escape consequent on bringing the prisoner 
from Batticaloa to this place. But the Queen's Advocate has very 
properly pointed out that tlie prisoner not having been continuedly 
in the custody of the Fiscal has a right to have an opportunity of 
pleading before us non-identity : that is, of asserting that he, the 
man now in custody, is not the same person as the man who was 
sentenced, The Queen's Advocate cited on this point Badcliffe's 



188 



1862. 
Kovr. 14. 



case reported in Foster; and the aiithority of Chitty's treatise on 
Criminal Law, i 777, may be added. As therefore the prisoner ia 
to come before its, we think it better to defer tlie consideration of 
the form and efBect of the sentence and warrant until he is present. 
He will have a right to be heard on these matters, and we will not 
in any way prejudge him by discussing them in his absence. 
Writ granted as prayed. 



Practice 
— claiin in. 
execution. 



ISih Novomber. 
Present: — Creasy, C. J., Sterling, J., and Temple, J. 



. E. Pantura, 1 
No. 3602. I 



Fernando v. Soyza 



The judgment of the court below was affirmed in these 
terms: — 

The Supreme Court has reason to believe that it has been 
the practice for the claimant in execution to be required to- 
give proof of his title in all cases where he is not reported to be 
in possession. The Supreme Court think it best to follow the 
established practice in. this instance. 



14ih Noveniber. 
Present: — Creasy, C. J., Sterling J., and Tehple, J. 



P. C. Trincomalee, ) 
No. 1549. J 



Buttery v. Keating 



Irregularity 
— summons — 
binding over 



The order of the Police Magistrate was affirmed as fdllows: — 

Had it not been for the 8th section of Ordinance 4 of 1855, 

peaM— state- ^^e Supreme Court should have bf en disposed ot think that these 

ments by J.P. proceedings could not be sustained. There is a serious and substan- 

' tial fault in the summons. The defendant (Kev. L. M. Keating) 

is summoned to answer a charge of assault. On coming before the 

Justice, be finds that the proceeding against him is not to obtain a 

conviction for assault, but to cause him to be bound over to keep 

the peace under the special power given by the Ordinance ; and ho 

is" refused time to bring his witnesses on account of the peculiar 

wording of the 4th clause, which directs the Justice to hear such 

evidence on behalf of the party who is called on by the compainant 

to give surety, as the accused party may have ready. 



189 



But the 8th clause enacts, inter alia, that a person who in the 
presence of say Court or Justice of the peace " evines an intention 
of committing an offence against the person of another," may be 
ordered by such Court or justice to give security to keep the 
peace. And in this case the Justice has recorded (in effect) that 
the demeanoiir and manner of the defendant throughout the pro- 
ceedings before the Justice have been so excited and of such a 
nature as to be of themselves sufficifent to the Justice's mind to 
make him believe that the defendant would (unless restrained by 
law) commit a breach of the peace, and that he, the defendant, 
ought to be bound over to keep the peace. The Supreme Court 
must give full credit to the statement of the Justice as to whnt 
took place before him : and the Supreme Court thinks that it 
warranted him in binding the defendant over. 

The Supreme Cotirt affirms the order on this ground — on the 
conduct of the defendant when before the Justice. The Supreme 
Court gives no opinion as to the merits of the parties in the trans- 
action, which gave rise to the proceedings. 



1862- 

Novr. 2 



57/A November. 
Ceeast, C. J., Sterling, J., and Temple, J. 



D. C. Jaffna, 
No. 9G01. 



Canepady v. Vally. 



Per ' 'uriam: — The Supreme Court held in a case from Kurune- 
gala 29111, decided in Supreme Court 19th July 1854, that a former 
case, although nonsuit, is a bar to the Prescriptive Ordinance, and 
therefore considers the case No. 1699 by the plaintiff against defen- 
dant a bar to defendant's prescription. 

Creasy C. J., (dubitante): without positively differing fi'om 
the opinion expressed by the majority of the Court in this case, 
and from the judgment of our predecessors in the Kurunegala case, 
I must state the question is one in which I" entertain great doubt. 



Prescription 
— effect of 
non-suit. 



No m52'^°'''l ^alletamby r. Madatte, et al. 



The Court set aside the judgement of the Court below in Prescriptive 
these terms : — Ordinance, 

The plaintiff produced a title deed in his favou dated 
in 1837. This, if there were nothing else in the case, 



190 

1862. would give him a right to recover; but the defendants meet 
Novr. 27. it by proof of their possession for ten years. On the other 
hand, the plaintiff proves that within the 10 years (in January 
1852) the defendants joined in a notarial deed, whereby they 
recognised the plaintiff's deed of 1839 as the still existing and valid 
title deed of the property. This was an " act by the possessors from 
which an acknowledgment of a right existing in another person 
must fairly and naturally be inferred." This act therefore brings 
the case within the proviso in the 2nd clause of Ordinance 8 of 
1834, and defeats the right which ten years possession would 
otherwise have given the defendant. 



N hi'^n-?' I Carupan et al. v. Veeran. et al. 

The following is the judgment of the Supreme Court: — 
Resisting In this case, the plaint .alleged that the defendant resisted 

execution of (i^g complainants and a Fiscal's peon in the apprehension 
' ■ ■ of certain coolies under a warrant from the Justice of the Peace. 

This warrant was in the common form of one for apprehension, 
directing the Fiscal of the Province to bring the bodies of certain 
persons before the Justice who issued the warrant; or some other 
competent J. P. forthwith. 

Sometime after the warrant was issued, it was returned to the 
Justice with " non est inventus" endorsed on it ; and after it had 
been so returned, the clerk, without the authority of the Justice, 
handed this wari'ant back with this further endorsement made by 
himself without the Justice's authority — " warrant re-issued." 

The complainants in acting on the warrant so re-issued were 
resisted : whence came the charge contained in the plaint. ' 

The Police Magistrate dismissed the charge on the ground 
that the extension or re-issuing of the warrant was made by the 
clerk of his own motion, and not by the J. P. 

This judgment now comes before the Supreme Court in appeal. 
Mr. Lorensz for the appellant relies on the case of Dickinson v. 
Brown, 1 Espinasse's Reports, 218 ; biit this court consi-lers it not 
to apply as one decided on the doctrine of consent; and further re- 
garding the 9th section of the 13th chap, of Hawkin's Pleas, vol ; i, 
it affirms the dismissal of the plaint. 



191 

No' 20467 f ^hamadoe Lebhe v. Muttappa Chetty. Novr. 27. 

No' 20466 I ■^^o.'nado Lehbe v. Alagappa Chetty. 

The following is the judgment of the Court : — 

These were cases in which the plaintiff sued for freight, and Claim for 
in which the defendants set up claim by way of reconvention freight — 
against the plaintiff for damage to the cargo and for short ^^'^^^ ^"^Z^' 
delivery. _ foTdlmage'to 

Evidence on both sides was taken. At the conclusion, the judge cargo and for 
gave judgment for the plaintiff for the full amount of freight in short delivery 
both cases, stating as his reason for such judgment that defendant's °™ss action 
claim for damages cannot be maintained as a set-off against the Ordinance 
freight claimed by plaintiff. No. 5 of 1852, 

The Supreme Court think that this is an erroneous view of the clause 1. 
nature of re-convention. Reconvention is equivalent not to set-off, 
but to cross-action, and the English authorities that have been cited 
to shew that this defence could not be maintained by waj of set- 
off are therefore inapplicable. It is clear that a cross-action could 
be maintained for the damage to the cargo and .short delivery ; and 
according to Roman Dutch Law, the defendant may bring this 
matter forward by way of reconvention, subject to the discretionary 
poAver of the judge to disallow the reconvention, and to direct the 
defendant's claim to be brought forward in an independent action, 
if he, the judge, thinks the plaintiff's claim to be dubious and 
dilatory. 

Had the District Court Judge exercised such a discretion here, 
the Siipreme Court should not have lightly interfered with it; but 
he has not done so. He has considered that the defendant's claim 
by way of reconvention is absolutely inadmissible, and this was in 
the opinion of the Court, an error of judgment. 

The Supreme Court has been pressed with the Ordinnnce 5 of 
1852, S 1, as bringing these cases under the exclusive operation of 
English Law, not only as to the rights which give the parties their 
causes of action, but also as to the conduct of the cases ; and it has 
been argued that the Ordinance thereby shuts out the power of 
pleading in reconvention anything that could not have been plead- 
ed in England by way of set-off. 

The Supreme Court do not think that the Ordinance has that 
operation. If the defendant here were denying the plaintiff's right 
of action, this court should follow the Ordinance and the English 
Law which the Ordinance points out, and this Court should decide 
against the defendants. But the defendants do not deny the plain- 
tiff's right of action : they say in effect, " it is true that you have 
a right of action against us for freight, but we have a right of 



192 

1862. action against you for damages, and let the two matters be con- 
Deer. 2. sidered together, and let the Court determine on which side the 
"~ balance inclines and what amount." 

This power is certainly not taken away by the Ordinance in 
express terms, and this Court does not think that it is taken away 
by implication. To hold the contrary would make a very serious 
innovation in the law of this Island, especially when we remember 
that the 2nd section of the Ordinance a])plies English Law to bills 
of exchange and promissory notes quite as fully as the 1 st section 
applies it to maritime matters. 

As the whole evidence is now before the District Court Judge, 
he had better consider it and decide the cases on their meritb. 



Tre!=pa=!=! — 

plaintifE 's 

right to the 

property 

injured. 



2nd December. 
Creasy C. J., Sterling J., and Temple J, 



D. C. Kandy, 
No. 30033. 



Duncan v. Keria, 



This case was remanded for re-bearing in tbese terms: — 

Remanded. In this case, the plaintiff sued for cattle trespass 
to a coffee estate. In his examination he stated that he was not 
the proprietor, but the manager of this estate and other estates of 
the proprietors, Messrs Tindall. He also stated that he held no 
power of attorney from the proprietor. 

On this he was non-suited. The nonsuit was to say tbe least 
premature; further inquiry must be made, and it must be ascertain- 
ed whether the plaintiff was iti actual occupation and possession "f 
the estate at the time of the trespass. If so, he has a right to 
maintain this action against a mere wrong-doer. 

The authorities, which shew that any possession of real pro- 
perty is sufficient to entitle the possessor to sue a mere wrong-doer, 
will be found collected at p. 580 of Koscoe's Nisi Prius, and p. 
1127 of Lush's Saunders on evidence and pleading:, vol 2. The 
Supreme Court will refer to the only case in particular, that of 
Elliott V. Kemp, 7 Meeson and Welsby p 312, on account of the 
authority of Lord TVensleydale, who there lays down the law most 
distinct!}'. 

■If upon inquiry, it should turn out tbat tbe plaintiff had no 
occupancy or actual possession, but had merely the right to go to 
the estate occasionally for the purpose of inspecting it, or some 
other temporary purpose, this court does not think that the plaintiff 
can maintain this action. 



193 



2nd December. 
Present : — Creasy C. J., Sterling, J. and Temple, J. 



C. R. JafEna, \ 
No. 27355. J 



Cadirgamen v. Worthington, 



On appeal preferred by the defendant, the Supreme Court 
affirmed the judgment of the Court below, in these terms : — 

In this case the plaintiff sued the defendant for wages 
due to him as gardener. The defence was that the plaintiff 
had forfeited his wages under the 7th clause of Ordinance 5 of 
1841, by wilful disobedience. 

The commissioner rightly held that there had been no dis- 
obedience of orders proved, inasmuch as the plaintiff who was hired 
as a gardener was not bound to do horse-keeper's work ; and it 
appeared that his master, the defendant (G. E. Worthington), had 
dismissed him impaid, for refusing to do stable duty. 

The commissioner also rightly held that the master cannot 
decide in his own behalf, that the servant has committed a forfei- 
ture of wages, under clause 7 of the Ordinance, so as to found a 
claim of set-off -in his (master's) behalf. If the master wishes to 
enforce the 7th clause against a servant, he must institute a proper 
judicial pi'oceeding, and not make himself summary judge in, his 
own favour. 

The Supreme Court wish, while upholding the commissioner's 
decision, to guard against any one supposing from this case, that a 
master, when sued for wages by a servant, who has seriously mis- 
conducted himself, cannot set up such misconduct as a defence, 
either complete or partial, to a claim for wages. 

The law is very different. Independently of any Ordinance, 
the law empowers a master to discharge without notice a servant 
guilty of gross misconduct, and the servant so discharged is not 
entitled to any wages that have not previously accrued due. See 
notes on Smith's Leading Cases, vol. 2, p. 23, and Chitty on Contracts 
p 501, and Addison on Contracts, p 493. Mr Addison gives two 
very useful lists of instances of such conduct as justifies the sum- 
mary dismissal of a servant ; and of instances of such slight mis 
conduct as does not amount to sufficient grounds for dismissal 
without notice. 

Besides this common law right, the 9th clause of Ordinance 5 
of 1841 enables the Court, when a servant sues for wages, to make 
abatement from the wages, on account of the servant's absence from 
or neglect of work, and also for the value of breakages or damage 
done to the employer's property, through the servant's misconduct, 
gross negligence or carelessness. The master may, when sued for 
wnses, avail himself either of the common law defence or of the 



Deer. 2. 



Master and 

servaut — 

action for 

wages — plea 

of forfeiture 

by disobei- 

dienoe or 

miecouduct — 

Ordinance 5 

of 1841 clause 

7 [Ordinance 

11 of 1865, 

clause 11] 

— Eights of 

master. 



194 

1862. statutory defence, wliicli we liave mentioned, if tlm facts warrant it, 
Deer. 8. whetlier he has prosecuted the servant under the 7th clause of the 
— Ordinance or not. 

The SupreiHe Court make these observations on account of the 
general' practical importance of the «ubject, and will only further 
remark that the present defendant has suffered no substantial 
damage through his mistake in law about the 7th clause of Ordinance, 
inasmuch as the facts of the case clearly shew that he had no 
defence on the merits. 



Irregularity 
— Justice of 
peace pro- 
ceedings — 
conversioa 
into Police 
Court case — 
doctrine of 
consent. 



8th December. 
Present : — Creasy, C. J., Sterling, J., and Temple, J. 



P. C. Kaigalle, ' 
No. 18266. 



Perera v. Kandasamy, et al. 



Dias for appellant. 

The following judgment of the Court sets out the facts of the 
case : — 

In this case the defendant was taken up under a J. 
P. warrant on a charge of assault. He was bailed and he appeared 
on the day appointed before the J. P. On this so appearing, the 
prosecutor applied to have the case ti-ansferred to the Police Court. 
The defendant does not seem to have objected. The case was then 
treated as a Police Court case. A plaint for an assault was forth- 
with entered, and the same Magistrate (being a P. M. as well as a 
J. P.) proceeded there and then to try the case as a Police Court 
case. No appointment of a day for trial was made, and no sum 
mons under the Police Court Ordinance appears to have been served 
The defendant pleaded "not guilty," and he does not appear to 
have taken any objection to the manner of the proceedings. He 
called a witness in his defence but was convicted. He now appeals 
against that conviction. 

It is quite clear that the proceedings were very irregular, and 
we think that the irregularity was such as to prejudice the defen- 
dant in a substantial right. This court has before now quashed a 
Pelice Court conviction, because the summons had been defective 
(see 9534 Matalle, Lorenz's Eep. p 192). In the case before us 
there has been no summons at all. It is true that the appellant 
had notice by the justice of the peace proceedings of the matter 
which was to be charged against him ; but we think that there is a 
ai-eat difference between notice to undergo a preliminary examination 
li-om which the J, P, is to decide whether m- not he will send the 



195 



accused to meet Ids trial bclore another tribunal, and notice to the 
man to prepare to stand a final trial at once before a Police 
Magistrate. 

We are further of opinion that the defects in these proceedings 
are not cured by the defendant's having pleaded to the Police Court 
plaint, even if his conduct is to be treated as an assent to what took 
place. There is a judgment of this court in P. C. Pantura 1S83, 
delivered on 5th November 1860, in which we decided after much 
consideration, that even an express consent on the part of an accus- 
ed person in a criminal case cannot legalize a substantial violation 
of law. 



1862. 
Deer. 16. 



16th December. 
Present: — Creasy, C. J., Sterling, J., and Temple, J. 



Mascoreen v. Oenys. 



D. C. Manaar, 
No, &632. 

The plaintiff (the Eev. Mascoreen) brought this action, 
founded on his possessory right by reason of a year and a 
day's possession, against the defendant (the Eev. Genys), who 
had turned him, the plaintiff, out of possession of a Church, and 
had possessed himself thereof. 

, The defendant's justification in substance was that the Church 
belonged to the Roman Catholic Bishop of Jaffna, that the plaintiff 
had been placed in the Church by that Bishop, but had since been 
contumaceous to his Bishop and had thereby become liable to be 
turned out by him, and that the defendant by the Bishop's orders 
turned him out accordingly. 

As to one point in dispute between the parties, namely whether 
the plaintiff held under the Roman Catholic Bishop of Jaffna or 
not, certain evidence was, we think, erroneously held inadmissible 
by the District Court Judge. Letters on the subject, purporting 
to be written by the plaintiff, were produced by the defendant at 
the trial ; but the Judge held that as they had not been filed, he 
was bound to reject them under the 8th Rule of 2nd July 1842. 
He does not seem to have exercised any discretionary power as to 
admitting or rejecting them, but to have considered them absolute- 
ly inadmissible. This is not a right construction of the Rule. 
The last part of the rule gives the judge a discretionary power to 
admit the evidence if it seems to him just and expedient. This 
power has generally been and ought to be very liberally exercised. 
It is almost always best to let the objection of late production tell 
against the value, and not against the admissibility, of testimony. 



Proprietaiy 
rights — 
Christian 
Churoli — 
evidence — 
B. and O, 2nd 
July 1842, 
rule 8— new 
trial — ^preca- 
rious posses- 
sion, 



19G 



1862. 
Deer. 18. 



If tlie District Court Judge thinks that the evidence has been 
unfairly and trickily kept back, he will be quite right in viewing it 
with suspicion, which indeed in such a case will naturally be ex- 
tended to the whole conduct in the cause of the party who deals 
with his evidence in this manner. 

As the letters in (question would not be unimportant as to the 
dispute about the plaintifE being or not being subject to the Eoman 
Catholic Bishop of Jaffna, the Supreme Court would have sent the 
case back for a new trial, if there had been no other point in the 
case on which the defendant was bound to satisfy the court in his 
favour, in order to obtain a verdict. But there is. The defendant 
asserted and ought to have proved that he turned the plaintiff out, 
by the Eoman Catholic Bishop of Jaffna's orders. He not only 
failed to prove this, but he himself disproved it in the most positive 
manner, when examined by thecourt, when he stated that he acted 
by nobody's orders. ~The Supreme Court do not grant new trials 
for erroneous rejection of evidence, where it is clear to us that the 
evidence, if received, would not enable the party who tended it to 
a verdict. 

The Supreme Court decides nothing in this case as to any 
proprietary rights ; it only determines that the plaintiff, who 
has proved his possession of the church for many years before the 
defendant tttrned him out, can maintain this possessory action 
against a mere wrong-doer. The Supreme Court investigated a 
few days ago, in a case (G. R. Kandy, 30033) the English author- 
ities as to the right of action which possession gives as against 
trespassers. Two Eoman-Dutch authorities have been cited in the 
present case, which strongly confinn the opinion to which thE 
Supreme Court then arrived: a passage in Grotius, p 109 shewed 
that precarious possession is not enough as against strangers ; ano- 
ther passage, cited from Bort's Tracts, establishes that possession 
virtute officii is precarious possession. 



ISth December. 
Present : — Creasy, C. J., Steeling J., and TEiaPLE, J. 

Lebbe Saibo v. JIarikar et al. 



D. C. Galle, 1 
Ko. 9516. ) 



In this case the 1st appellant was defendant in a suit 
brought against him by one Saibo (who is complainant in the 
lubiBtance to pi'egent case) to recover possession of a certain house. 

The plaintiff obtained judgment and a writ issued directing 
the Fiscal to place the plaiutiJf in possession of the house, describ- 



Contempt 
of Court — 



process, 



197 

ing it specifically. On going tLither for that purpose, the Fiscal's 18(j2. 
officer was resisted by the defendant (1st appellant) and by the Deer. 18. 
defendant's son (the 2nd appellant) who lived in that house with 
his father. 

After a due investigation of the subject, they were both very 
deservedly lined by the District Court Judge for contempt of court. 

As regards the 1st appellant, the case was too clear to adroit of 
the slightest doubt. With regard to the 2nd appellant, we wished 
before giving judgment, to look to some decisions which were said 
to have been pronounced formerly by this court, as the power of 
District Courts to punish for contempt persons who resisted their 
process, not being parties to the suit in which the process issued. 

By the kindness of Mr. Lorenz, we have been furnished with 
reports of these cases. The first is D. C. Matara, No. 303 (decided 
20th January 1857): there commissioners had been authorized by 
process of the Court to take, not any specific article of property, 
but such property as wholly belonged to the deceased. They 
tried to seize some articles in the possession of a man who 
was not a party to the suit, and it was held that the man was not 
punishable for contempt in refusing to give up the things to them, 
inasmuch as there had been no legal adjudication that the goods, 
which the man claimed, was the deceased's property. So in the 
other case, D. C. Matara 19011 (decided 20th May 1857), the writ 
of sequestration ordered the Fiscal generally to seize the defendant's 
goods. The Fiscal's oflScer endeavoured to seize some plumbago 
which third parties claimed ; and there again this court held that 
it would be premature to commit such claimants for contempt, 
before it had been judicially ascertained that the plumbago was 
the defendant's property, and as such within the scope of the writ. 

Both these cases differ widely from the present one. The 
evidence in the present case clearly proves a wilf ut contempt by 
both appellants. And the judgment as against both is affirmed. 



'^\^' 2'^?^}°' \ Xaitnytamhy v, Samvanamiitlii. 
ISo. 28,555. J y ^ ^ 

The plaintiff in this case sued the defendant on a bond lip.arinjr pgp^ of 

date 19th April 1860 for a sum of £300. The defendant pleadfd avvansemcnt 

that, by a certain deed dated the 10th of August J .SGI, an agree- —preference 

ment was entered into between himself and certain of his creditors, *°t°^^go^^'^' 

of whom plaintiff was one, whereby the defendant was to have ceabueiit 

time to pay the several sums of money Avhich he then owed to tliem by debtor, 
(including plaintiff), by two equal instalments, one half whereof 
was payable within two years from the date of the agreement and 
|.he other half within three years of that date. 



198 

1862. The plamtifi: admitted the execution of the deed, but pleaded 

Uecr. 18. that his signature was obtained thereto by fraud and misrepresen- 
tation on the part of the defendant, in that he, the defendant, at 
the time of obtaining the plaintiff's signature, undertook to secure 
the signatures of all his other creditors, whereas two of those whose 
names were mentioned in the deed did not sign it, and there were 
other creditors who were not made parties at all to the deed in ques- 
tion; and further that the defendant had paid off certain claims in full 
before the expiration of the period contemplated by the agreement 
referred to in the answer. 

The learned District Judge set aside the " composition deed " 
and entered up judgment for plaintiff. 

On appeal, the Supreme Court affirmed the judgment in these 
terms : — 

The defendant in this case had on the 10th April 1861 made 
an arrangement with his creditors, by which they agreed to give 
him time to pay his debts. He was to pay half within two years, 
and the other half within three years from the date of the agree- 
ment. At the time when this agreement was made, there was a 
private understanding and agreement between the defendants and 
one of the creditors, named Sinnetamby, that Sinnetamby should 
have the defendants promissory note at four months for £180, being 
about half the amount of Sinnetamby's claim. 

When the plaintiff discovered that this prefei'enoe had been 
given to Sinnetamby, he (plaintiff) brought his action to recover 
the debt due to him (plaintiff) at once; and he contends that he is 
not bound by the agreement or "composition deed" of April 1861. 
The plaintiff says that ' the composition deed is vitiated by the 
private arrangement between the defendant and Sinnetamby, which 
was a fraud upon him, the plaintiff, and the other creditors, who 
signed on the faith that all were to be treated alike. 

The Supreme Court thinks that this contention is well founded, 
and that the plaintiff is entitled to recover. To adopt the language 
of Chitty on Contracts, p. 591 : " Where a debtor in embarassed 
circumstances enters into an arrangement either by deed or other 
wise with his creditors to pay them a composition xipon their claims, 
or to discharge the demands in full or by instalments at stated 
intervals, any private agreement between the debtor and one of 
the creditors, who professes to join in the general arrangement, 
that the debtor, or a third party for him, shall pay a further sum 
of money or give better or further security than such as is provided 
for other creditors, is void as a fraud on them. The creditors 
bargain for an equality of benefit as to payment and security; 
there is a tacit understanding that all shall share alike pari passu, 
and that it shall not be competent to any one of them, without 
their knowledge; to stijmlato for any additional benelit or security 



199 

to himself." And a little further on, he rightly says " It makes no 1862. 
difference that the favored creditor has realized nothing under Deer. 18. 
such agreement, for it is the mere fact of such an agreement being 
made which constitutes the fraud on the other creditors." 

The general principle laid down in this passage (and many 
similar passages in other text-hooks might easily be added) has not 
been denied in the argument for the defendant in the present case. 
It was suggested that no real preference was given to Sinnetamby, 
in as much as the debtor was by the terms of the composition deed 
at liberty to pay the first moiety to his creditor at any time within 
two years, and the promissory note given to Sinnetamby was for the 
payment of a moiety of the debt due to him at a period within the 
two years. But it is obvious that a creditor, who was to be 
necessarily and definitely paid at the end of four months, would 
be in a better position than creditors who might be kept waiting at 
the debtor's option for the full term of two years. And the mere 
fact that the promissory note was to be a further security for Sinne- 
tamby than was given by the deed which was common to all, would of 
itself stamp this private agreement with Sinnetamby as an illegal 
one. See Leicester v. Rose, 4 East 371. 

But it was further maintained on behalf of the defendant, 
that although the private arrangement with Sinnetamby was illegal 
and void, so that Sinnetamby could not enforce it, yet that it did 
not operate so as to vitiate the composition deed as between the 
debtor and the other creditors, and so as to remit them to their 
original rights. No case was cited to support this proposition, but 
we were told that no case could be found in which th contrary had 
been held. A remark like this was made during the argument 
in Mallalieu v Hodgson, 20 L. J. Q. B. 343. The observation 
there was as follows :" there is no direct decision that a creditor 
can recover his original debt, the composition deed being tainted by 
fraud." This observation is not strictly correct; for there is the 
case of Weriham v Fowle, Bowling's Practice Cases, vol 3. p 43, in 
which a debtor had fraudulently misled his creditors as to the 
amount of his assets. A composition deed, which they had signed 
under the influence of such misrepresentation, was held void, and 
his creditors were decided to be at liberty to sue him for their 
original debts. The same point was similarly determined in the 
case of Vinci v Mitchell, reported in Moody and Kobertson 337. 
These are authorities on the principle of the present case; for it is 
just as much a fraud on a debtor to conceal a private agreement of 
preference from the bulk of his creditors, and to keep 'them under 
a delusion as to their being fair play and equality in the trans- 
action, as it is in him to conceal part of his property, and so keep 
them under a delusion that he is a poorer man than really is the case, 
nov does it make anv difference whether there is any express 



200 

1862. covenant in tlie deed for fair disclosure, and equal treatment, or 
Deer. 18. whether these things are left to the implied covenant which always 
exists in such matters. 

The paucity of express authorities on the subject is not to be 
wondered at, if we consider the circumstances under which com- 
position with creditors generally takes place. The debtor is 
generally not merely insolvent, but almost penniless; and it is 
generally his friends that provide the means of making same pay- 
ment to the creditors, for the sake of which they forego their 
lialances or give a long letter of licence. If it turns out that there 
has been a fraudulent preference of one or more creditors over the 
rest, it is seldom that the debtor is worth the trouble and expense 
of sueing; 

On principle, the case is quite clear. The plaintiff had a just 
claim against the defendant payable imitiediately. The plaintiff 
gave a promise not to enforce that claim for two years. Why did 
he give that promise ? On the faith, among other reasons, that he 
and all the other creditors were being fairly and honestly dealt with 
and that none was in any way preferred to the rest. The defen- 
dant was deceiving the plaintiff all the time. The defendant, in 
obtaining the plaintiff's signature to the deed, committed an act of 
dishonesty, of which the law will not permit him to avail himself. 
The plaintiff's promise to forbear suit, having been made without 
adequate consideration and in consequence of fraud practised on 
him, is not binding on him either morally or legally. He had a 
perfect right to bring this action. Affirmed. 



APPENDIX. 



204 

I 

[See ante pp. 54 — 68.] 

The following is the judgment of the Judicial Committee of 
the Privy Council, (delivered on the 19th July, 1862,) on appeal 
from the orders of the Supreme Court of Ceylon, dated respective- 
ly the 16th of October and 3rd of November, 1870. 

Present : 
Lord Justice Knight Bruce. 
Lord Justice Turner. 
Sir Edward Eyan. 



^Na' 2^656.'} ^'""^'"^ ^- ^"-^^- 



Proceedings under English law — Liability/ of parties under a judg- 
ment depending on that law — Kandyan District — Maritime 
Provinces — Ordinance No. 5 of 1852 — law of the forum — 
rights of wrong-doers — account of profits. 

In carrj'ing out the judgment of the Judicial Committee, on an appeal 
from the Supreme Court of Ceylon, which reversed a previous decision 
of the District Court of Kandy, where the proceedings had been con- 
ducted and carried on according to the English law and course of 
procedure, and treated as depending on that law, — 

Held, that the Supreme Court was wrong in applying the principles of 
the Koman-Dutoh law, so as to render parties subject to a joint account 
liable only for a share or proportion: the decision of the Judicial Com- 
mittee intending, and the English law rendering, them equally liable in 
aelido. 

The Eoman-Dutch law is the prevailing law in force in the Maritime 
Provinces of Ceylon, but as the procedure of a court is the law of the 
forum, the Ordinance No. 5 of 1852, cl. 5 is not applicable to a case where 
the whole procedure has been carried on according to the Bnglisi law, 
and not the Eoman-Dutch law. 

A wrong-doer, one who is in wrongful possession of another's lands, 
is not entitled to any [commission for the sales he may have effected 
of the produce of those lands. 

An account of profits is an account of receipts, after making all just 
allowances. In the case of a wrong-doer, commission on sales made 
by him, does not constitute a just allowance. 

This is an appeal from two Orders of the Supreme Court of 
the Island of Ceylon, made in the cause of Lindsay v. Duff, 
and bearing date respectively the 6th of October and the 3rd of 
November, I860. The grounds of the appeal are, as to theOrder of 
the 6th October, 1860, that by that Order, the defendant, George 
Smyttan Duff, who is the respondent to this appeal, was ordered 
to pay into the Eegistry of the Court only the sums of £1,875 



205 

and £2,291. 1«. 6^d., amounting to the sum of £4,166. Is. 6^d., 
in the whole, when, as the appellants contend, he ought to have 
been ordered to pay into Court the sum of £6,457. 8s. Id. ; and 
as to the Order of the 3rd of November, 1860, that'by that order 
the court, over-ruling an objection taken by the appellants to a 
i-eport in the cause, allowed the defendant, Duff, commission on 
his sales and purchases on account of the estate in question, and 
ordered him to pay into Court only the sum of £10,344 Os. ll^d., 
when, as the appellants contend, he ought to have been ordered 
to pay into Court a much larger sum. 

The cause of Lindsay v. Daff, out of which this appeal 
arises, was instituted by the appellants as plaintiffs against the 
respondent, Duff, and against James Ingleton, Alexander Brown, 
David Baird Lindsay, and afterwards continued against the 
respondent, JJiiff, as the executor of Alexander Brown, in the 
District Court of Kandy, for the purpose of recovering the pos- 
session of a coffee plantation or estate in the above-mentioned 
district, called the Bajawella plantation or estate, with mesne profits ; 
and by the decree of the District Court, bearing date the 16th of 
April, 1855, it was decreed that the defendants be ejected from 
the premises in dispute, and that the plaintiffs, the now appellants, 
be restored to and quieted in the possession thereof, and that they 
do recover from the defendants mesne profits to the amount of 
£6,457. 3s. Id. sterling, in the following proportions from the 
defendant, Duff, the now respondent, from 1st of February, 1849, 
to the 30th of April, 1850, and from the defendant, Duff, the now 
respondent, as executor of the estate of Colonel Brown, and from 
James Ingleton, from 1st of May, 1850, to 21st of May, 1853, at 
the rate of £1,500 a year. 

From this decree of the District Court, the defendants ap- 
pealed to the Supreme Court, and by a decree of that Court, 
bearing date the 8th of March, 1856, the decree of the Kandy 
Court was reversed, and the suit instituted by the now appellants 
was dismissed. 

The appellants then appealed from the decree of the Supreme 
Court to Her Majesty in Council. That appeal was heard before 
their lordships who reported to Her Majesty their opinion ; and 
thereupon Her Majesty, by an order in Council bearing date the 
30th of June, 1860, was pleased to approve the Report and Order, 
and it was thereby ordered that the decree of the Supreme Court 
of the 8th of March, 1856, should be, and the same was thereby, 
reversed, and that so much of the judgment of the District Court 
of Kandy of the 16th of April, 1855, as directed that the defend- 
ants, the respondents to that appeal, should be ejected from the 
remises, and that the plaintiffs, the appellants, be restored to and 



206 

quieted in the possession thereof, and the same was thereby restored, 
but that so much of the said judgment of the District Court as 
ordered mesne profits to the amount of £6,457 3s. Id. sterling, to 
be paid in certain proportions by the respondents, Dvff and Ingleton, 
to the appellants, be, and the same was thereby varied, by order- 
ing, and it was thereby ordered, that the mesne profits of the 
estate be paid by the last-named respondents, in the like propor- 
tions, into the registry of the Supreme Court of Ceylon, and that 
an account of subsequent rents and profits of the estate in ques- 
tion, received by the respondents, Duf and Ingleton^ or either of 
them, or by their or either of their order, or for their or either of 
their use, since the 21st of May, 1853, be taken ; and that the 
amount which might be found due upon such account be also paid 
by the respondents into the registry of the Supreme Court. And 
after directions as to the moneys so to be paid into Court not being 
paid out without notice, and as to the order being without pre- 
judice, and as to the parties being at liberty to apply to the Supreme 
Court, it was ordered that said cause be, and the same was thereby, 
remitted back to the Supreme Court of Ceylon, with directions to 
give effect to the said report, and that the same be punctually 
observed, obeyed, and carried into execution. 

Upon this order of Her Majesty in Council reaching Ceylon, 
the appellants moved before the Supreme Court for the payment 
into the registry by the respondent, Dvff, of the sum of £6,457 
3s. Id., being the amount of the mesne profits from the 1st of 
February, 1849, to^ the 21st of May, 1853, as fixed by the decree 
of the District Court of Kandy, and for a reference to the District 
Court to take the account of the mesne profits from the 22nd of 
May, 1853, to the 25th of August, 1860, when possession of the 
estate had been given to the appellants. 

It was Upon this motion the first of the orders now under 
appeal, the order of the 6th of October, 1860, was made, directing 
the respondent, Dvff, to pay into the registry the sum of £4,166 
Is. (>\d., that sum being the aggregate amount of the sum of 
£1,875, the amount of the mesne profits at the rate of £1,500 a 
year, from the 1st of February, 1849, to the 30th of April, 1850, 
which by the decree of the District Court of Kandy was ordered to 
be paid by the respondent, Dvff, and of one-half of the sum of 
£4,582 3s. \d., the amount of the mesne profits from the 1st of 
May, 1850, to the 21st of May, 1853, at the same rate, which by 
the same decree was ordered to be paid by the respondent, Duff, 
and by James Ingleton. By this order of the 6th of October, 1860, 
it was also, in conformity with Her Majesty's order in Council, 
ordered that an accoiTut should be taken by the registrar of the 
. subsequent profits of the estate received by the respondent, Duff, 



207 

and hj James Ingleion, or by their or either of their order, or for 
their or either of their use. 

In pursuance of this order the registrar made his report, by 
which he found £16,726 Os. id. to be the amount of the subse- 
quent mesne pfBfits ; but he certified that in arriving at that 
amount questions of interest and commission had been settled, and 
that interest amounting to £8,962. Is. Id. had been charged by 
the respondent, George S. Duff, in the accounts on the capital 
embarked, and commission amounting to £4,143. 9s. 6c?. on the 
sales and purchases on account of the estate ; and he certified that 
he had allowed both these charges in the respondent's accounts. 
He further certified that the shares ' in which the proprietors held 
the estates and divided the profits were as follows : estate o± Brown, 
one-half ; estate of Ingleton. one-quarter ; estate of Dr. Smi/ttan, 
one-quarter ; and that the profits divided in these proportions 
■would stand thus : estate of Brown, £8,363. 0«. 2d. ; estate of 
Ingleton, £4,181 10s. Id. ; estate of Dr. Smyttan, £4,181. 10s. Id. 

The appellants objected to this report, in respect of the 
allowance to the respondent, George Smyttan Duff, of the interest 
on capital, and of the commission ; and upon the case coming on 
before the Supreme Court upon the report, the Court disallowed 
the interest on capital, but allowed the commission, and made the 
seocnd of the orders complained of in this appeal, the order of the 
3rd of November, 1860. The sum of £10,844 Os. llirf. by this 
order directed to he paid into the registry by the respondent. Duff, 
is the aggregate of the sums of £8,363 Qs. 2^d., by the report 
certified to be the proportion of the subsequent profits belonging 
to Brown's estate, and of the sum of £1,981 Os. 9^d., being one- 
half of the sum of £3,962 Is. Id., the interest on capital dis- 
allowed by the Supreme Court. By this order the Supreme Court 
so ordered that the question of costs should stand over until it 
should be seen what, if any, further proceedings were taken in the 
matter under the leave given to the defendants by the Order in 
Council, and what might be the result of such proceedings. It is 
under these circumstances the appellants have again brought this 
cape before us. 

Three questions arise upon the appeal, and were argued at the 
bar : first, whether the respondent, Dvff, ought not to have been 
ordered to pay into Court the whole, and not one-half only, of the 
sum of £4,582. 3s. Id., which, according to the decree of the 
Kandy Court, was payable by him and by James Ingleton ; secondly, 
whether he ought not to have been ordered to pay into Court the 
full amount of the subsequent profits found by the report of the 
Eegistrar, and not one-half of those profits only ; and thirdly, 
■whether he ought to have been allowed the commission which has 
been allowed to him by the Supreme Court. 



208 

As to the first of these questions, their Lordships find them- 
selves unable to agree in the conclusion at which the Supreme 
Court has arrived. That conclusion rests upon these grounds: that, 
by virtue of the Ordinance, No. 5, of 1852, the effect of the 
judgment of the District Court of Kandy, if it had remained un- 
disturbed, would have been to be determined by the Koman-Dutoh 
law, and that Her Majesty's order in Council has revived and re- 
ordained that judgment, not merely as to the proportions in which 
the mesne profits were to be answered by the respondent, and by 
him and James Ingleton, but also as to the liability of those parties 
under the judgment, and that, according to the Eoman-Dutch law, 
that judgment did not give the plaintiffs (the now appellants) the 
right to recover against both or either of those parties the full 
sum payable by both of them, but gave the plaintiffs the right to 
recover a moiety, and a moiety only, of that full sum against each 
of those parties. 

Upon this question, as to the effect of the Eoman- 
Dutch law if applied to the judgment of the District Court of 
Kandy, their Lordships do not think it necessary to give any 
opinion, for they are of opinion that it ought not to be so applied. 
They are satisfied (as they observed in their judgment upon the 
former appeal in this caiise) that all the proceedings in this 
cause have beisn conducted and carried on according to the English 
law and course of procedure, and treated as depending on that law. 
They are not even satisfied that the proceedings of the respondent 
himself, which necessitated the institution of the suit on which this 
appeal is brought, were not so conducted, carried on, and treated ; 
and they are not disposed to think that upon the sound construc- 
tion of the Ceylon Ordinance, No. 5 of 1852, it was meant to pro- 
vide by it that the Eoman-Dutch law should be applied to deter- 
mine the operation and effect of a judgment or decree pronounced 
under a different law. They are, on the contrary, much disposed 
to think that this Ordinance was intended, and ought to be held to 
apply only to cases in which there rnay be a Kandyan law or Kan- 
dyan custom having the force of law, applicable to the rights of 
the parties in issue in the suit, and to be determined by the Court ; 
but even if the Ordinance ought to be held to go further, and to 
apply not merely to the substantive rights in issue in the suit, but 
to questions arising on the law of procedure, their Lordships are 
led, from tho procepdings in this suit, to believe that the procedure 
in the District Court of Kandy is according to the English law ; 
and the procedure of a Court being the law of the Court, this alone 
would, as they conceive, prevent the Eoman-Dutch law being ap- 
plicable under the Ordinance. 

Their Lordships have less difficulty in concluding that the 



209 

Eoman-Dutch law ouglit not to have been applied to this case in 
the mode in which the Supreme Court has applied it, from the 
fact tljat it appears by the judgment that it has never before been 
so applied, and from the conclusion and inconvenience which would 
result from attempting to apply the doctrine of one law to the 
proceedings under another. 

It is not, however, necessary, in their Lordships' judgment, 
for them to give, and they do not therefore give, any final opinion 
upon the construction of this Ordinance ; for assuming it to bear 
the extended construction contended for by the respondent, they 
do not think that it was competent to him to insist upon the Roman- 
Dutch law when he had throughout, both in the proceedings in 
the District Court of Kandy and in the Supreme Court, and ulti- 
mately upon the former appeal to Her Majesty in Council, con- 
curred in treating the questions in the cause as depending upon 
the English law. Moreover, the duty of the Supreme Court was 
to carry into effect the order of Her Majesty in Council, 
and there can be no doubt that that order proceeded upon the 
footing of the English law being applicable to the case. Their 
Lordships, therefore, think that the order of the 6th of October, 
1860, cannot be maintained upon the grounds on which it has been 
rested in the judgment of the Supreme Court ; and they have no 
doubt that, according to the English law, the respondent was liable 
to pay into Court the full sum which, under the decree of the 
District Court, was to be paid by him and by James Ingleton. 

They are of opinion, therefore, that this order ought to have 
been for payment into the registry of the Court, by the respondent, 
of the full sum of £6,457. 3«. Id. What has been already said 
applies even more forcibly to the subsequent profits ; for the pay- 
ment of them rests wholly iipon Her Majesty's order in Council, to 
which it was not pretended that the Eoman-Dutch law could be 
applied. 

Their Lordships are of opinion, therefore, that the order of 
the 3rd of November, 1860, ought to have directed the whole of 
these profits to be paid by the respondent into the registry of the 
Court. It was attempted to distinguish the case, as to some part 
of the rents received by the received by the respondent, upon the 
ground that he received and paid them over as agent. But their 
Lordships are of opinion that the respondent ca,nnot protect himself 
from his liability to the appellants upon this ground ; for as to the 
rents up to the 21st of May, 1853, the title of the appellants was 
established by the order of Her Majesty in Council, and as to the 
subsequent rents they were received and paid over pendente lite, 
when the defendant was in possession as part owner, and was wrong- 
fully insisting on retaining that possession against the appellants. 



210 

Then as to the commission allowed to the respondent in his 
accounts, their Lordships are of opinion that this allowance ought 
not to have been made to the respondent. According to their 
Lordships' judgment on the former appeal, which was approved by 
Her Majesty in Council, the respondent's possession of the planta- 
tion or estate was a wrongful possession, and he cannot be permitted 
to make a profit to himself out of his own wrongful act. The 
Supreme Court in making this 'allowance seems to have proceeded 
on two grounds ; first, that if the allowance was not made, the 
appellants would recover more than they could otherwise have rea- 
lized ; and secondly, that the account directed was an account of 
profits merely ; — biit as to the first ground, if it was maintained, 
every wrong-doer would equally be entitled to make and maintain 
such a claim, a proposition which is quite untenable ; and as to the 
second ground, it is sufficient to say that an account of profits is 
an account of receipts, after making all just allowances, and that 
under the circumstances of this case the commission claimed by the 
respondent could not properly be held to be a just allowance. 

The appeal also complains of the reservation of the costs 
contained in the order of the 3rd of November, 1860, but their 
Lordships see no reason to alter the order in this respect. 

Their Lordships, therefore, will humbly recommend Her 
Majesty to reverse the order of the 3rd of November, 1860, so 
far as it overrules the objection taken by the appellants to the 
report, and to declare that by the order of the 6th October, 1860, 
the sum of £6,457 3s. \d. ought to have been ordered to be paid 
by the respondent into the registry of the Court ; and that by the 
order of the 8rd of November, 1860, the sum of £24,831 lis. 5i., 
being the aggregate amount o£ the sum of £16,726 Os. Ad., the 
subsequent profits, of the sum of £3,962 Is. Id., the interest on 
capital disallowed by the Supreme Court, and of the sum of 
£4,143 9s. 6rf., the commission allowed to the respondent, ought 
also to have been ordered to be paid by him into the registry, and 
again to remit the cause to the Supreme Court with directions to 
carry into effect this order ; and further to order that the costs 
of this appeal be paid by the respondent. The order of course to 
be without prejudice, as provided by Her Majesty's former order 
in Council. 



211 

II 

[ See ante pp. 141 — 143. ] 



Present : 
Lord KiNGSDowN. 
Sir John Eomilly. 
Sir John T. Coleridge. 

D. C, Galle, ) Base v. Black 
No. 20,283 [ and 

& 20,286. ) Black v. Rose 

Their LordsMps do not think it requisite to call on the 
respondent's Counsel. The case has been extremely well argued 
on behalf of the appellant, and everything that could be urged been 
brought before us ; but their Lordships think, after giving every 
consideration to the arguments addressed to them, that the whole 
question resolves itself into one of construction of the charter- 
party, and is not affected by the custom of the port of delivery, even 
supposing that custom to be satisfactorily proved. They agree 
entirely with the learned Judge of the Supreme Court, and adopt 
his construction of the instrument in qiiestion, considering that the 
terms of the charter-party, " the cargo to be taken alongside, and 
to be taken from the ship's tackle at the port of discharge, free of 
expense and risk to the ship," entitled the master to demand freight 
upon such delivery, irrespective of the custom, if any, of the port 
of delivery, to take from him his lien. For these reasons their 
Lordships affirm the judgment of the Court below, and will re- 
oommend to Her Majesty to dismiss this appeal, with costs. 



