Babun Appu v. Simon Appu - NLR - 44 of 11 [1905] LKCA 32; (1905) 11 NLR 44 (3 July 1905) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1905 >> [1905] LKCA 32 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Babun Appu v. Simon Appu - NLR - 44 of 11 [1905] LKCA 32; (1905) 11 NLR 44 (3 July 1905) 44 Present: The Hon. Sir Joseph T. Hutchinson, Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Wendt. BABUN APPU v. SIMON APPU et al . D. C, Matara , 2,989. Partition suit-Discovery of new evidence after judgment-Remedy of restitutio in integrum-Laches-Partition Ordinance, No. 10 of 1863. In the absence of fraud the remedy of restitutio in integrum is not available in a partition suit on the ground of discovery of fresh evidence after judgment. The only remedy available is an action for damages as provided for by the Partition Ordinance. Quaere,-Whether such an action for damages would lie against a person who in good faith claimed title and did not wilfully suppress any evidence on which the party claiming damages relied ? T HIS was an application for relief by way of restitutio in integrum on the ground of discovery of fresh evidence. The facts are fully stated in the judgment of Wendt J. A. Drieberg , for the fifth defendant, appellant. A. St. V. Jayewardene , for the petitioner, respondent. Cur. adv. vult . December 24, 1907. WENDT J.- This is a proceeding to obtain restitutio in integrum, and it arises out of the following facts. The action in which the present petition is presented was one instituted in September, 1902, under the Partition Ordinance, and in the land which was the subject of it the plaintiff claimed three-eighths, while the fifth defendant (the present appellant) claimed as against him one-fourth out of those three-eighths. The District Judge on March 12, 1903, allotted the whole three-eighths to the plaintiff, but in appeal this Court ordered a new trial, and after that new trial the District Court on December 8, 1903, upheld appellant's claim to the one-fourth. Plaintiff appealed, but his appeal was dismissed in March, 1904, The land was thereafter sold under the decree in December, 1904. The proceeds were distributed among the parties declared entitled, and a certificate of sale was in March, 1905, issued to the purchaser, who has since been in possession of the land. One Doan was the original owner of half of the land, which share included the one-fourth in dispute, the other one-fourth being admittedly vested in fourth defendant and others. Plaintiff alleges 45 that the disputed one-fourth was conveyed by Doan to Jayan, from whom he claims it, while the fifth defendant alleges that Doan died possessed of it, and claims it by conveyance from his heirs. The alleged conveyance by Doan to Jayan was never produced in the District Court, although attention was pointedly directed to the necessity for it. On August 31, 1906, the present petition was presented to the Court, seeking to re-open the whole question of title on the ground of the discovery of the missing conveyance to Jayan, and this Court, upon the usual ex parte application, remitted the matter to the District Court for inquiry. The District Judge has now " dismissed the fifth defendant's claim," and decreed that plaintiff " is entitled as absolute owner to the one-fourth share." He has not considered the effect of this decree upon the sale of the land and distribution of its proceeds. No fraud is alleged or proved by the petitioner. His sole ground for relief is the discovery of fresh evidence. It is therefore necessary very narrowly to examine the facts of this alleged discovery, for it would tend seriously to impair, if not destroy, confidence in a solemn adjudication upon title to land in the present case, an adjudication which under the Partition Ordinance binds the whole world, if it were liable, after an indefinite lapse of time, and after the rights of new parties have accrued by purchase under a judicial sale, to be set aside on the ground that new evidence has come to light. What, then, does the petitioner say on this point ? Nothing more than is contained in paragraph 6 of his petition (for he called no evidence on the point at the hearing); that paragraph is as follows:-'' Since the said finding (that of December, 1903) the petitioner has discover-ed the deed referred to above. It seems to have been filed by petitioner's father before he was born, in the case No. 11,532 of the Court of requests of Matara. Every search was made for the deed while the case was pending, and no trace of it could have been discovered. Petitioner even gave a petition to the Registrar's Office for a copy of the deed, and after search was made the petitioner was informed that it could not be found. The petitioner had not the number or date of the deed, and so petitioner could not furnish it to the Registrar of Lands." It will be observed that the petitioner does not give the date when he did in fact discover the deed. For all that appears it might have been during the pendency of his appeal. At all events I find from the copy of the deed which he produces that it was issued to him by the Registrar on July 3, 1905, and yet he appears to have taken 10 step's to bring this new evidence to the notice of the Court, until he filed the present petition. The delay is wholly unexplained and is unreasonable. The Courts rightly require the utmost promptitude in taking advantage of such a discovery, and I consider that the petitioner's laches disentitles him to any relief. 46 I am also disposed to think that, in the absence of fraud, such an application as his comes too late, when the judgment complained of has been fully executed and the rights of new parties have accrued under it. Lastly, even if the remedy would be open in an ordinary action, I think it is excluded in the case of a decree under the Partition Ordinance, and that the only relief available (if any) is by an action for damages. I say " if any " because I doubt if damages could be awarded against persons who in good faith claimed (and proved) title, and did not wilfully suppress the piece of evidence upon which the petitioner now relies. I think the decree of the District Court should be reversed, and the petition dismissed with costs in both Courts. HUTCHINSON C.J. -I concur. Appeal allowed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1905/32.html