Marikar v. De Rosairo - NLR - 507 of 15 [1912] LKCA 110; (1912) 15 NLR 507 (7 November 1912) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1912 >> [1912] LKCA 110 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Marikar v. De Rosairo - NLR - 507 of 15 [1912] LKCA 110; (1912) 15 NLR 507 (7 November 1912) 507 Present: Lascelles C.J. MARIKAR et al v. DE ROSAIRO . 326-C. R. Puttalam, 6,456. Servitude - Right of owner of upper tenement to discharge water on the lower tenement -Jus fluminis. It is incumbent on the owner of a lower tenement to receive the water flowing by gravitation from the upper tenement. But the lower proprietor is obliged only to receive such water as flows in the ordinary coarse of nature from the upper tenement. He is not bound to receive water which the upper proprietor has discharged into his premises by any artificial means which alters the natural drainage of the land. T HE facts appear from the judgment. H. A. Jayewardene, for the defendant, appellant. Tambyah, for the plaintiff, respondent. November 7, 1912. Lascelles C.J.- This appeal is limited to so much of the decree as orders the defendant-appellant to remove the obstruction in the drain leading the water which flows from the premises of the plaintiff-respondent through those of the defendant-appellant into the drain on the public road. It is contended that the evidence does not support the finding that the plaintiff-respondent was entitled to a jus fluminis through the defendant-appellant's premises. The evidence is no doubt contradictory, and much of it, either on the one side or the other, must be untrue. The view of the learned Commissioner of Requests is that the evidence of Jeremias Fernando and Ponniah Udaiyar is trustworthy. The evidence of these witnesses, if accepted, is I think sufficient to establish the jus fluminis claimed by the plaintiff respondent. But there is a good deal of evidence, which is supported by the personal observation of the Commissioner, to the effect that the level of the premises of the defendant-appellant is lower than that of the premises of the plaintiff-respondent, so that, on the principle explained in Fernando v. Fernando, 1 it is incumbent on the defendant-appellant to receive the water flowing by gravitation from the plaintiff-respondent's premises. I do not think that it is material that the difference in level is small, provided that it is enough to direct the water from the upper tenement to the lower tenement. 1 3 Bal. 202 . 508 A natural servitude of this nature is, of course, limited in its extent. The lower proprietor is obliged only to receive such water as flows in the ordinary course of nature from the upper tenement. He is not bound to receive water which the upper proprietor has discharged into his premises by any artificial means which alters the natural drainage of the land, such as a ditch or channel (Maasdorp, vol. ii ., p. 172). In my opinion the judgment of the learned Commissioner can be supported either on the ground that the plaintiff-respondent has acquired by prescription a jus fluminis, or on the ground that the premises of the defendant-appellant are subject to a natural servitude which obliges the proprietor to receive water flowing naturally from the plaintiff-respondent's premises. I dismiss the appeal with costs. Appeal dismissed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1912/110.html