Perera v. Abeyratna Et Al. - NLR - 414 of 15 [1912] LKCA 42; (1912) 15 NLR 414 (21 October 1912) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1912 >> [1912] LKCA 42 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Perera v. Abeyratna Et Al. - NLR - 414 of 15 [1912] LKCA 42; (1912) 15 NLR 414 (21 October 1912) 414 Present: Lascelles C.J. and Pereira J. PERERA v. ABEYRATNA et al. 181-D. C. Colombo, 33,620. Mortgage decree under s. 201, Civil Procedure Code - Separate action by a party to set aside sale on ground of irregularity - Civil Procedure Code, s. 344. It is not open to a party to an action in which a mortgage decree under section 201 of the Civil Procedure Code has been entered up to bring a separate action to have a sale of land in execution of the decree set aside on the ground of irregularity. He must, in terms of section 344 of the Code, move in the Court executing the decree. T HE facts are set out in the judgment of Pereira J. Bawa, K.C. (with him H. A. Jayewardene), for appellants. Sampayo, K.C. (with him R. L. Pereira), for respondent. Cur. adv. vult. October 21, 1912. Pereira J. - The first defendant in this case is assignee of the decree entered up in case No. 32,296 of the District Court of Colombo, which is a mortgage decree under section 201 of the Civil Procedure Code. In execution of that decree two parcels of land were put up for sale by the auctioneer named in it, and purchased by the second and third defendants respectively. The plaintiff, who is the judgment-debtor on the decree, brings this action to have the sale of the two parcels of land cancelled on the ground of certain irregularities which he sets forth in the plaint, and the question has been raised whether, in view of the provision of section 344 of the Civil Procedure Code, it was open to the plaintiff to bring a separate action in this way to determine what, it is contended, is a question relating to the execution of the decree. I may, in passing, observe that if, in the 415 above circumstances, the remedy by means of a separate action were open to a party, I doubt very much that he could, as the plaintiff has here done, amalgamate his claims in one action where two separate parcels of land have been sold under the decree to two separate individuals. But, as observed above, the only question for decision at present is whether a separate action could be brought at all. The terms of section 344 are quite clear. It runs thus:- " All questions arising between the parties to the action in which the decree was passed, or their legal representatives, and relating to the execution of the decree, shall be determined by order of the Court executing the decree, and not by separate action. " So that, if the present question can be said to be a question between the parties to the original action, there can be no doubt that the section would apply. It has been argued that in considering the meaning of the section its location in the Code should be taken into account. It is said that it appears in the Code as a section of chapter XXII., and that therefore it applies to questions, other than those specially provided for by section 282, in connection with such executions only as are treated of in that chapter. In the first place, the plain words of the section do not justify the assumption that it was intended to have such a limited operation. In the next, the section is one of several under the heading " General Provisions, " and it will be seen that under that heading there are several sections (I need not enumerate them here) that are obviously intended to have general application, and must necessarily be allowed operation in connection with the execution of decrees under section 201. Now, to come to the consideration of the question, whether, in view of the fact that the execution purchasers are not parties to the original action, the present question can be said to be one between " the parties to the action, " so as to bring it within the operation of section 344-the section of the Indian Code corresponding to this section is section 244. It is in parts material to the present inquiry expressed in substantially the same terms as those of the section of our Code, and so early as 1886 it was held by a Full Bench of the High Court at Allahabad (see Basti Ram v. Fattu 1 ) that the provisions of section 244 of the old Indian Code of Civil Procedure prohibited, not only a suit between parties and their representatives, but also a suit by a party or his representatives against a purchaser at a sale in execution of the decree, the object of which was to determine a question which properly arose between the parties or their representatives and related to the execution, discharge, or satisfaction of the decree. The action there was an action to set aside an execution sale on the ground that it was illegal and void, as 1 I. L. R. 8 All. 146. 416 it contravened the provisions of a certain Indian Act known as the Rent Act. That decision was followed in the case of Dhani Ram v. Chaterbhury 1 and many other cases; and eventually, in the case of Sanyal v. Kali Das, 2 on appeal from the High Court of Calcutta, the Privy Council held that where questions were raised between the parties to a decree relating to its execution, discharge, or satisfaction, the fact that a purchaser at a judicial sale who was no party to the decree of which the execution was in question was interested and concerned in the result had never been held to prevent the application of section 244 of the Civil Procedure Code limiting the disposal of those matters to the Court executing the decree. In the course of their judgment their Lordships observed as follows: - "It is of the utmost importance that all objections to execute sales should be disposed of as cheaply and as speedily as possible. Their Lordships are glad to find that the Courts in India have not placed any narrow construction on the language of section 244, and that when a question has arisen as to the execution, discharge, or satisfaction of a decree between the parties to the suit in which the decree was passed, the fact that the purchaser who is no party to the suit is interested in the result has never been held a bar to the application the section. " This is a binding authority. Two local cases' were referred to in the course of the argument: Sultan v. Packeer 3 and Goonetilleke v. Goonetilleke . 4 In the former no objection to the action appears to have been taken in the Court below, and there is no reference at all to such an objection in the judgment of Hutchinson C.J., but my brother Wood Renton incidentally refers to an argument by the counsel for the appellant in that case based upon the above objection, and he says that in the view that he has taken of the question of costs it is unnecessary to deal at length with this argument, and disposes of the matter with an expression of opinion against the contention of the appellant's counsel. The Indian cases mentioned above do not appear to have been cited in that case. The ruling of Goonetilleke v. Goonetilleke, 4 however, appears to me to accord with the appellant's contention in the present case. I would set aside the judgment appealed from, and dismiss the plaintiff's action with costs. Lascelles C.J. - I entirely concur, and have only to add that in Goonetilleke v. Goonetilleke, 4 to the decision of which case I was a party, the decision of the Privy Council in Sanyal v. Kali Das 2 was considered, and was the authority, so far as the judgment depended on authority, on which our decision was based. Set aside. 1 I . L. R. 22 All. 86. 3 ( 1910 ) 14 N. L. R. 52. 2 I . L. R. 19 Cal. 683. 4 15 N . L. R. 272. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1912/42.html