Wijetunga v. Wijetunga - NLR - 493 of 15 [1912] LKCA 81; (1912) 15 NLR 493 (12 November 1912) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1912 >> [1912] LKCA 81 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Wijetunga v. Wijetunga - NLR - 493 of 15 [1912] LKCA 81; (1912) 15 NLR 493 (12 November 1912) 493 Present: Lascelles C.J. and Pereira J. WIJETUNGA et al. v. WIJETUNGA . 337-D. C. Chilaw, 4,570. Fidei commissum- Prohibition against alienation - Grant to A, and after his death to his heirs, executors, or administrators. B by a deed gifted his property to A subject to the provision, inter alia, that A " shall not sell, lease out, mortgage, " &c., the property, and that after A's death that A'. " heirs, executors, or administrators shall hold and possess the property or deal with it as they please." Held, that the deed created a fidei commissum; the intention of the donor had not been defeated by the use of the words " executors or administrators." An important test to be applied in considering whether a will or other instrument creates a fidei commissum is whether any provision or stipulation expressed in it can be regarded as having been inserted for any purpose other than that of creating a fidei commissum. If this question cannot be answered in the affirmative, then other provisions and stipulations in the instrument, if they are susceptible of an interpretation that is not inconsistent with the conception of a fidei commissum, must be given that interpretation. 1 (1874) L. R. 9 Ch. 495; (1876) 21 A. C. 881. 2 (1884) 87 Ch. D. 231. 494 T HE facts are sufficiently set out in the judgment of the District Judge (T. B. E. Loftus, Esq.) 1. The Assistant Government Agent, Puttalam, was directed by His Excellency the Governor to acquire a certain block of land for a public purpose, viz., for the construction of a railway to Chilaw. 2. The three defendants appeared before him in response to the usual notice. 3. First defendant claimed the entirety of the undivided half share adversely to second and third defendants, who contend that the share in question should be divided equally among the three defendants. 4. The half share in question belonged originally to Wijeyetunge Bon Thomis and his wife Madalena, who gifted the same to their eon Don Alvino by deed No. 1.650, vide M (2). 5. Second and third defendants contend that M 2 contained a valid fidei commissum, and that consequently the half share in question has devolved on Don Alvino's heirs, who are first and second defendants and the late wife of the third defendant. 6. The first point to determine is, Does M 2 contain the word " assigns "? 7. First defendant urges that the word " balakaraya-balayalath " means " assigns," and is the word usually used by notaries as an equivalent for the English word " assign ". 8. To support this contention he called the interpreter of this Court. This officer has had very short experience as an interpreter. During the greater part of his official life he was recordkeeper. He frankly admits he is no expert, and has only a colloquial knowledge of the Sinhalese language, not even being conversant with the grammar of the language. 9. The contention of the first defendant does violence to the grammar of the passage. The words " polmak," " administradi," are adjectives qualifying the noun " balakaraya," " balayalath " is a participle. 10. The sentence means " excutors and administrators who have obtained authority to act as such." 11. First defendant's object in trying to import the word " assign " was to obtain the benefit of the decision reported at page 190 in Vol. II., N. L. R. 12. The next question to determine is, Does M 2 contain a valid fidei commissum ? 13. Second and third defendants contend that the words " executors and administrators " should be viewed as a mere surpulsage, thoughtlessly inserted by a notary fond of long and sonorous words, the precise meaning and effect of which he was ignorant of. 14. They point to the prohibition against alienation, and urge that the grantor's intention is sufficiently clear therefrom. 15. Lastly, they urge that document M 3 shows that the grantee dealt with the property as though it had been burdened with a fidei commissum. 16. First defendant, relying on the decisions of the Supreme Court reported in 7 5. C. C. 135, 2 N. L. R. 190, 6 N. L. R. 173, 8 N. L. R. 350, 14 N. L. R. 301-310, contends that M 2 does not create a valid fidei commissum. 495 17. I think first defendant's contention is sound. The law relating to executors and administrators has now been in operation so long that even the commonest villager knows the duties and powers of an executor or administrator. 18. It is impossible to hold that those words are a mere surplusage, and the decisions above cited must be followed. 19. That Don Alvino dealt with the land as though it had been burdened with a fidei commissum is no ground for holding that M 2 contains a valid fidei commissum. 20. The last point to be determined is, Is there estoppel by conduct? It is contended that the fact that first defendant accepted from his father the gift of his life interest (vide M 3) estops him from denying that M 2 contains a valid fidei commission. 21. That alone is insufficient to bring this case under section 115 of the Evidence Ordinance. 22. Both issues must be decided against second and third defendants. 23. First defendant has by his father's will ( vide C 3) become heir to all his property. He is, therefore, entitled to the whole of the compensation brought into Court by the Assistant Government Agent, Puttalam. 24. Let decree be entered accordingly. Second and third defendants will pay the costs incurred by the plaintiff and by the first defendant. Bawa , K.C., for appellants. Sampayo, K.C. (with him Cooray), for respondent. Cur. adv. vult. November 12, 1912. Pereira J. - This is a case on a reference to the District Court under " The Land Acquisition Ordinance, 1876. " The contest is one between the first defendant on the one side and the second and third defendants on the other as to the apportionment of the amount of compensation brought into Court by the Government Agent. The question involved is whether deed M 2 created a fidei commissum in the hands of the grantee, Don Alvino, in respect of the property conveyed to him thereby. If it did, the three defendants would be entitled to share equally in the amount brought into Court; if it did not, the first defendant would be entitled to the whole amount. It is difficult to understand the quaint phraseology of the translation of this deed, but its provisions may be summarized thus: - (1) The donors " give and grant " the property in question to Alvino. (2) They provide that Alvino " shall not sell, alienate, lease out, mortgage, exchange, or keep as security, or in any other manner encumber the property; and that all acts, deeds, and things done contrary to this stipulation shall be null and void." 496 (3) They reserve to themselves the right of " enjoying, possessing, and improving the property during their lives." (4) They provide that " after their death the property shall be held, possessed, and enjoyed by Alvino "; and (5) That after his death " his heirs, executors, or administrators shall hold and possess the property or deal with it as they please." No case has been cited to us, nor am I aware of any in which terms of grant identical with or even closely similar to the above have been construed by this Court; and we have therefore to look at the above provisions by the light of such general rules and principles as are usually applied for the purpose of discovering the true intention underlying such provisions. For the solution of the question as to whether a particular provision in a will or other instrument creates a fidei commissum, an important rule is laid down by Van Leeuwen in the Censura Forensis: Pro fidei com commisso accipitur quod non alia ratione videri potest expressum nisi causa fidei commissi inducendi (Cens. For. 1, 3, 7, 7). That is to say, a provision or stipulation given expression to must be taken as a fidei commissum, which cannot be considered as having been inserted for any purpose other than that of " inducing " a fidei commissum. Now, in the above deed there is a provision that Alvino shall not alienate, &c., the property conveyed to him, and that any alienation shall be null and void; and there is also a provision as to what is to happen to the property after the death of Alvino. Can we imagine any purpose for which these provisions have been inserted in the deed in question except the purpose of creating a fidei commissum? I do not think so. The intention to create a fidei commissum is, I think, manifest, but then the question has been raised whether that intention has not been defeated by the words used. If the intention of a donor or testator to create fidei commissum is clear, and the words used by him can be given an interpretation that supports that intention, I should be slow to embark on a voyage of discovery in search of possible interpretations that defeat that intention. In the words of "Van Leeuwen again: In fidei commisis sola testatoris voluntas spectatur, nee solum verbis expressa, sed et tacita et ex conjectura collecta (Cens. For. 1,3,7,7). Mr. Bawa has argued with great force that in the above deed there is a clear indication of the persons to benefit after the death of Alvino. They are the heirs of Alvino. What the deed means is that, alternatively, that is to say, in default of heirs, the property is to vest in executors or administrators. In default of heirs, Alvino, as fiduciarius, would, of course, be absolute owner of the subject of the fidei commissum, and a disposition by him of the same by will would then have full effect, and thus the use of the words 497 " executors " and " administrators " (the latter implying administrators own testamento annexo) could be explained away without doing violence to the language employed, and in a manner that gives effect to the obvious intention of the grantor to create a fidei commissum. I would set aside the judgment appealed from, and direct the apportionment of the compensation in equal shares among the three defendants. The appellants, I think, are entitled to costs in both Courts. Lascelles C.J.- I agree. Set aside. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1912/81.html