Rajakariar v. The Provincial Road Committee of Jaffna - NLR - 41 of 11 [1907] LKCA 24; (1907) 11 NLR 41 (30 August 1907) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1907 >> [1907] LKCA 24 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Rajakariar v. The Provincial Road Committee of Jaffna - NLR - 41 of 11 [1907] LKCA 24; (1907) 11 NLR 41 (30 August 1907) 41 Present : Mr. Justice Middleton. RAJAKARIAR v . THE PROVINCIAL ROAD COMMITTEE OF JAFFNA . C. R., Jaffna, 4,939 A. Public thoroughfare-Encroachment-Long possession-Prescription-Presumption- Evidence Ordinance, s. 114-Ordinance No. 10 of 1861, ss. 86 and 94. MIDDLETON J .-Although it may not be possible for a private owner to prescribe from the public highway by virtue of length of possession, yet long and uninterrupted possession, ut dominus, of land subsequently claimed to form part of the public highway, raises a strong presumption that the land in question is the private property of the possessor. APPEAL by the defendant from a judgment of the Commissioner of requests. The Hon. Mr. Kanagasabai , for the defendant, appellant. Sampayo, K.C . (with him Bawa ), for the plaintiff, respondent. Cur. adv. vult. 42 August 30, 1907. MIDDLETON J.- In the first place, it was contended on this appeal that the case was one beyond the jurisdiction of the Court of requests, on the ground that the land, the subject-matter of the action, must be deemed to include the buildings on it, thereby making its value in excess of Rs. 300. It was conceded by counsel for the appellant on the hearing of the case in the Court below that the land itself in question did not exceed in value Rs. 300, and the action is brought entirely to establish title to the land and not to the buildings. If the plaintiff failed, the decree in point of law would only affect the land, although incidentally portions of the building on it might have to be removed; but under section 88 of Ordinance No. 10 of 1861 it is title to the land only which is to be put in issue. I think, therefore, that this objection must fail. As regards the course adopted by the defendants in this matter in compelling the plaintiff to bring this action, at least as regards the northern house, it bears to me the appearance of an attempt to advertise the alleged incapacity of their predecessors in the office. Under sections 86 and 94 of the Ordinance which was passed in 1861 the defendant committee have the most ample powers conferred on them to prevent building on a public thoroughfare; but we now find them in 1905 putting in force their powers under section 88 to compel an owner to prove title to an alleged encroaching house, which was admittedly begun to be built in 1887 and completed in 1891 in the principal thoroughfare of the town of Jaffna, and which must have been built under the daily, if not hourly, observation of . the authorities whose duty it was to see that no encroachment was made on the public thoroughfare. It is clear therefore that, as regards the northern house, the plaintiff had been in possession of it and its alleged encroachment for something like fourteen years without any objection by the defendant committee. I think a strong presumption arises from this fact under section 114 of the Evidence Ordinance that the house belongs to the plaintiff, and was built with the consent of the existing Road Committee, and therefore not on land forming part of the public thoroughfare. The plaintiff produces a deed of gift for the house from his father dated 1892, but it is objected that he has not produced an antecedent title deed. There is no presumption also that the alleged interspace formed part of the public street, which I take to be the dictum of Withers J. in the case reported in 1 Tambayah 45. I think also the title which the plaintiff has to prove under the Ordinance is such a clear prima facie title as would put on a party claiming an obligation to prove a better. In my opinion the plaintiff has established such a title as regards the northern house which it is incumbent on the defendants to rebut, and I agree with the learned District Judge that the evidence that the plaintiff built on public 43 ground is by no means convincing, and that the rebuttal is not established. I therefore uphold his finding on that part of the case. As regards the steps of the northern house which it is admitted project into the roadway, there is no evidence when they were put there, and it may be they are, as regards their encroachment, a quite recent addition to the house. I hold that the title established by the plaintiff does not cover them. There is an obligation under section 93 of the Ordinance to make a bridge or platform over the side drain, but this does not imply that it should encroach into the street. As regards these steps, therefore, I think the plaintiff has failed, and will be liable to remove them on the orders of the defendants. We then come to the southern house. I think it is clear on the evidence that the learned Judge was right in holding that its verandah was built on the site of the old Dutch verandah, and though its having been replaced in brick instead of wood gives the effect attributed to it by Mr. Leak in his evidence, I think that the plaintiff has established his title to the land it stands on. The plan annexed to the deed of 1884, No. 241, in my opinion is strong evidence that there was an irregularity in the line of the street at that time, which I think meets the evidence of Mr. de Niese as to the converging of the line of street at the plaintiff's houses. It does not follow that because an old street converged at certain points, while the rest of it exhibits equality of width and straightness, that the converging sides are necessarily encroachments on the public thoroughfare. It may not be possible for a private owner to prescribe from the public highway by virtue of length of possession ( Queen v. Eduljee 1 ), but I have no doubt that long uninterrupted possession, ut dominus , of land subsequently claimed to form part of the public highway raises a strong presumption that the land in question is the private property of the possessor. I do not see how the evidence as to permits alluded to by the learned counsel for the appellant at pages 12, 13, and 17 affects the plaintiff's case, as under section 86 a person is not permitted to build on his own land along any thoroughfare without permission. In my opinion this appeal should be dismissed with costs, an order which I am not disposed to modify, even though the plaintiff may have failed as regards the steps. Appeal dismissed . 1 (1843-55) Ram . 105. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1907/24.html