Muttu Menika v. Fernando Et Al. - NLR - 429 of 15 [1912] LKCA 40; (1912) 15 NLR 429 (30 September 1912) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1912 >> [1912] LKCA 40 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Muttu Menika v. Fernando Et Al. - NLR - 429 of 15 [1912] LKCA 40; (1912) 15 NLR 429 (30 September 1912) 429 [Full Bench.] Present: Lascelles C.J. and Pereira and Ennis JJ. MUTTU MENIKA et al. v. FERNANDO et al. 111-D. C. Kandy, 21,203. Action by legatees and executrix against persons to whom executrix had alienated property - May legatees join as plaintiffs in action to recover property ?- Civil Procedure Code, ss. 11 and 472. The executrix and the legatees under the will brought an action to recover a portion of the estate which had been transferred by the executrix to the defendants. It was alleged in the plaint that the executrix was induced by fraud and undue influence of the defendants to make this transfer. Held (by LascellEs C.J. and Pereira J., Ennis J. dissentiente), that the legatees should not have been joined as plaintiffs in the circumstances of this case. Lascelles C.J.-Although it would be competent to the Court, as a matter of procedure, to direct the legatees to be made parties under section 472 of the Civil Procedure Code, the question is one of substantive law rather than one of procedure. As a general rule, in the absence of collusion or special circumstances the legatees cannot sue for the recovery of assets which have been legally alienated by the executor. If an executor refuses (to file a bill), or if three is such a relation between the executor and the debtor as to interpose a substantial difficulty in the way of the executor calling the debtor to account, then the rule does not apply. T HE first plaintiff (executrix) and the second to ninth plaintiffs (legatees) brought this action to recover from the defendants a portion of the estate transferred by the executrix. The learned District Judge (F. R. Dias, Esq.) ordered the second to ninth plaintiffs to be struck off the record. The facts are set out in the following judgment of the District Judge: - The plaintiffs in this action are asking for three forms of relief: - (1) A declaration that a certain conveyance No. 347 executed by the first plaintiff as executrix under the will of one Arnolis Fernando on December 31, 1907, in favour of the two defendants is fraudulent and void, on the ground that it was obtained by means of fraud and collusion on the part of the defendants, and by misrepresentations and the exercise of undue influence over the first plaintiff; (2) That the consideration mentioned in the said conveyance was fictitious, and that it was executed without the authority of Court and contrary to the express provisions of Fernando's last will; and 430 (3) That the second to ninth plaintiff (the children of Fernando by first plaintiff) are entitled to seven-eighths of the lands and houses mentioned in that deed as special legatees under the will. They also ask for possession and damages..... The main facts of the case are not disputed, and they are these. The late Arnolis Fernando was a wealthy trader and landowner, who died in May, 1905. He was married, but had discarded his wife (who is still alive), more than twenty years ago. and lived with the first plaintiff by whom he had nine children, viz., the second to ninth plaintiffs and another who has since died. All these children are minors, except the second plaintiff. The two defendants are Arnolis's brothers. In December, 1904, Arnolis executed a last will, naming the first plaintiff as his executrix, and by it he devised certain specified lands in Dumbara, to the first plaintiff, gave certain specific legacies in cash to his legitimate daughter, to his four sisters, and to his brother James, and of the residue, which formed the bulk of his estate, he devised seven-eighths to his children by the first plaintiff and the remaining one-eight to his brother, the first defendant. The will was duly proved, and in January, 1906, probate was granted to the first plaintiff in case No. 2,435 of this Court. She began to administer the estate, but finding herself unable to settle certain large claims which the two defendants had against the testator, and also against herself as executrix, she came to a settlement with them from time to time. During 1906 she executed three deeds in favour of the second defendant, conveying certain lands and assigning a mortgage bond to him, and also paid him Rs. 5,800 in cash in part satisfaction of his alleged claim, and in that same year she also executed another deed conveying some land to the first defendant in part satisfaction of his alleged claim. All these deeds are also impeached as fraudulent, but we are not concerned with them in the present action. Eventually, on December 31, 1907, the deed No. 347, which is now in question, was signed by the first plaintiff in favour of both the defendants, conveying to them a house in Castle Hill Street, Kandy, valued at Rs. 20,000, and three small lands in Galle and in Udapalata. This does not purport to be a sale of the properties to the defendants by the executrix, but is a conveyance made in pursuance of an arrangement come to between the executrix and these two creditors of the estate, one of whom was himself a legatee in respect of one-eighth of the residue. The consideration for it, as expressly recited in the deed was the final settlement of all balances due to the defendants from the estate, including the one-eighth share of the residue due to the first defendant, and the defendants also signed the deed releasing the estate from all their claims against it-past, present, or future. On the footing of this conveyance the defendants entered into possession of the several lands, and, as I find from an endorsement on the deed, they have even sold off the lands in Udapalata to a third party more than four years ago. That, perhaps, is the reason why the plaintiffs have confined their present action to a vindication of their right to a "seven-eighths share in the Kandy house only, and incidentally asked for a cancellation of the deed in defendants' favour. 431 This being the state of affairs, the plaintiffs now join together in coming forward, four years after the deed was executed, and ask that it be set aside on the ground of fraud and misrepresentation. Their complaint is that during the minority of the children the defendants took advantage of the helplessness of their mother, who is an uneducated woman, and defrauded her and them by getting her to execute these several deeds in respect of claims which never existed. It is said that the defendants from time to time made the first plaintiff believe that her testator owed the first defendant Rs. 60,000 on a promissory note dated September 14, 1903, and Rs. 16,001.17 to the second defendant on an account stated between him and the testator, which representations were false in fact, as the only sums due to them were the Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 4,000 respectively. The defendants have taken preliminary objection that the second to ninth plaintiffs have no cause of action against them, because they are all represented by the first plaintiff, who is suing in the capacity of executrix, fully clothed with power to vindicate any property of the estate that may be in the wrongful possession of others. They also complain of a misjoinder of parties, plaintiffs, and of causes of action, and allege that if in the circumstances of the case the second to ninth plaintiffs have any cause of action at all it is against the first plaintiff and not against them But it seems to me that the causes of action of the two sets of plaintiffs being so distinct and unconnected with each other except in a remote and indirect way, they should not be permitted to be joined together. Mr. Pereira felt the reasonableness of the defendants' objection to be drawn into a battle with the two sets of plaintiffs allied together, and invited the Court to use the powers given to it by section 18 of the Code, and order the name of the first plaintiff to be struck out from its present place and added after the names of the defendants if the Court thought that that was her proper place. But the provisions of this section are permissive only, and not imperative, and the Court must be careful not to exercise its discretionary powers in a manner calculated to prejudice or embarrass the other parties to the suit She may indeed be properly joined as a defendant, but only if she is charged with the same fraud as the two defendants. But the other plaintiffs refuse to charge her with fraud or collusion with the defendants to devastate the estate committed to her charge So long as this conveyance stands in the way, no heir or creditor can maintain an action against these defendants for the vindication of any of the lands mentioned in it. If the allegations made in the plaint against the defendants be true, it seems to me that the only person who is competent to ask the Court to set aside the deed is the first plaintiff, who has been defrauded and led astray by these men. The presence of the second to ninth plaintiffs in the action will be quite unnecessary. The fact that they are some of the residuary legatees, having a substantial interest in rescuing this residue, makes no difference. They are in no better position than a hundred other unpaid creditors, if any such exist, and it would be absurd to expect the Court to permit them also to intervene in this action if they try to do so. Whether it was by the active fraud of the executrix, or by her stupidity and negligence, that this deed was executed, there can be no question that a devastavit hag been committed, if it be true 432 that valuable properties have been conveyed away to the defendants in consideration of debts which did not exist. In either case the executrix would be liable for the damage done, and all parties injured by the devastavit are only simple contract creditors of the executrix. (See Dunne v. Doran. 1 ) It would appear thus that the proper remedy available to the second to ninth plaintiffs is a personal action against the executrix for the alleged loss sustained by them through her default, or they must move in the testamentary case for a judicial settlement of her accounts, when the validity of the alleged claims of the defendants against the estate could be fully gone into. When such simple remedies are available to these plaintiffs, I do not see why an extraordinary remedy should be invented for the purpose of enabling them under cover of an action for land to attack the validity of a deed executed by the executrix in due course of administration. All the lands mentioned in this dead form part of the residue, and whether the devise of the residue to the second to ninth plaintiffs and the first defendant is to be regarded as specific or not, there can be no question that they were all vested in the executrix for purposes of administration, and as Clarence J. observed in Fernando v. Muncherjee, 2 " no rule is clearer than that the executor for the performance of his duty of paying the testator's debts has an absolute power over the assets, whether specially bequeathed or otherwise." He may sell, mortgage, or lease them for the purpose of raising funds, and they cannot be followed by creditors, much less by legatees, either general or specific, into the hands of the alience. The principle is that the executor or administrator in many instances must sell, in order to perform his duty in paying debts, &c., and " it "would be monstrous " if he had no such power (as observed by Lord Mansfield in Whale v. Booth, 3 note to Farr v. Newman) " for then no one would deal with an executor," if he is liable afterwards to be called to account. Here, then, is a conveyance by the executrix, which on the face of it appears to be quite regular. We must, therefore, assume that it is a valid instrument which passed title to the defendants, until it is set aside by a competent Court, at the instance of parties who are lawfully entitled to demand it. It seems to me that the only person who, for the reasons specified in the plaint, is entitled to ask for a rescission of this deed is the executrix, and no one else. If she was defrauded by the defendants, I do not see what possible objection she can have to coming here by herself and asking for the Court's interference to set matters right. The only object with which the second to ninth plaintiffs have been associated with her seems to be to embarrass the defendants as much as possible, and to deprive them of defences which may be available to them as against the executrix personally, but not as against the other plaintiffs. For one thing, by reason of what the executrix did in 1907, the defendants have given up the claims which they then had against the estate. If this deed is now to be set aside at the instance of the second to ninth plaintiffs, the defendants will be left without a remedy, for their claims have now been long prescribed. If the first plaintiff proceeds against them by herself, they can at least counterclaim against her personally for their old claims which she induced them to surrender. 1 13 Ir. Eg. R. 545. 2 5 S . C. C. 141 . 3 4 T. R. 625. 433 If, as is now proposed by Mr. Pereira, I am to strike out the first plaintiff's name and add her as a party defendant, the case will be converted into a simple action by some heirs for the recovery of property which had wrongly gone into the hands of third parties owing to some mistake or indiscretion on the part of the executrix, or we may put the case in this way. It is admitted in paragraph 7 of the plaint that some Rs. 6,000 were really due to the two defendants, but it is alleged that in payment of that debt the executrix conveyed to them property worth considerably more. In other words, the defendants are creditors who have been overpaid, and some of the residuary heirs want that overpayment to be restored to the estate. But an action of that sort must be brought against the executrix, and not against the overpaid creditors. (See Williams, vol. II., 10th ed., p. 1650).. ... This principle applies to the case before us in every detail. The defendants were admittedly creditors, but they are said to have been overpaid. There is no suggestion that the executrix is insolvent, and she has at least the Dumbara lands all to herself free of any liability. Her co-plaintiffs decline to accuse her of fraud or collusion with the creditors. It therefore follows that the defendants should not be made co-defendants with the executrix in the present action. No one denies that under our law, as now interpreted, an heir can maintain an action to vindicate his title to land independently of an executor or administrator, but if that be all that the second to ninth plaintiffs are now seeking to do, then as I said before, they have no case so long as the conveyance by the executrix bars their way. On the issue that is now before me I must decide against the plaintiffs, and the order I make is that the second to ninth plaintiffs be struck out of the case, and the first plaintiff allowed to proceed on with the other issues that have been framed, which go to the root of the whole dispute. The defendants' costs of this contention must be paid by all the plaintiffs. Let the case be re-fixed for further "hearing on August 19 next. The second to ninth plaintiffs appealed. Bawa, K.C., (with him H. A. Jayewardene), for the second to ninth plaintiffs, appellants.-The first plaintiff (the executrix and the appellants are seeking to set aside the deed, on the ground that it was obtained by the defendants by fraud and undue influence. All persons may be joined as plaintiffs in whom the right to any relief claimed is alleged to exist, whether jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of the same cause of action (Civil Procedure Code, section 11). [Pereira J.-The appellants are not parties to the contract?] We have suffered a wrong in common with the plaintiff. The heirs have a vested interest in the property. The mere fact that the appellants have a remedy against the first plaintiff does not debar them from proceeding against the actual perpetrator of the fraud. The executrix might have been acting perfectly honestly. The 434 appellants are the persons who have been wornged in the result. Section 472 of the Civil Procedure Code enacts that though it may not be ordinarily necessary to make the persons beneficially interested parties to the action, the Court may, if it think fit, order them or any of them to be made such parties. This is a case in which the Court may very properly make an order under section 472 for joining the legatees. If any inconvenience or hardship arises from the fact that the legatees are co-plaintiffs, the Court may strike their names off; but no inconvenience arises from their being parties; on the other hand, it would be in the interests of justice; to keep them on the record. Counsel cited Williams on Executors 703, Sami v. Ammal, 1 Mohamad v. Krishnan, 2 Appuhamy v. Marthelis Rosa, 3 Bhola Pershad v. Ram hall et al., 4 Balasingham's Civil Procedure Code 58, Rampini's Civil Procedure Code 111, De Kroes v. Don Johannes 5 , C assim v. Marikar. 6 Sandrasagara, for the first defendant, respondent.-There is no allegation of fraud against the executrix in the pleadings. This is an instance of overpayment to creditors; in such a case, unless special circumstances like fraud, collusion, &c., are alleged, the heirs cannot sue the creditors. Williams on Executors 700, Alsager v. Rowley. 7 Tambyah, for second, defendant respondent. Bawa, K.C., in reply. Cur. adv. vult. September 30, 1912. Lascelles C.J. - In substance this is an action where an executrix joins with specific legatees in a claim to recover from the defendants a portion of the estate transferred by the executrix to them in 1907. It is pleaded that the executrix was induced by the fraud and undue influence of the defendants to make this transfer; that the defendants falsely represented that the testator owed Rs. 60,000 to the first defendant and Rs. 16,001.17 to the second defendant, and that on the strength of these false representations the executrix conveyed the property in question in settlement of the alleged debts. The learned District Judge has made order striking the legatees (the second to the ninth plaintiffs) off the record and leaving the executrix (the first plaintiff) to continue the action. From this order the plaintiffs now appeal. The question at issue is whether, in the circumstances of this case, the legatees are entitled to follow the assets of the estate into the 1 7 Mad. H. C. R. 260. 4 (1896) 24 Cal. 34. 2 11 Mad. 106. 5 (1905) 9 N. L. R. 7. 3 (1906) 9 N. L. R . 6 8. 6 1 S. C. R. 80. 7 (1802) 5 Ves. Jr. 748. 435 hands to whom the executrix has transferred them by notarial deed. It is conceded that the rights of the legatees in this respect are regulated by the law of England on the subject. Although it would be competent to the Court, as a matter of procedure, to direct the legatees to be made parties, under section 472 of the Civil Procedure Code, I am satisfied, on an examination of the English authorities, that the question is one of substantive law rather than one of procedure. There is no question as to the general rule that, in the absence of collusion or special circumstances, the legatees cannot sue for the recovery of assets which have been legally alienated by the executor. The rule is based on broad considerations of public policy, for the position of the purchaser from an executor would be intolerable if he were liable to be sued with respect to the assets by each of the legatees. For this reason, even if the rule should appear to operate harshly in any particular case, it is imperative on us to apply it strictly, and to allow no exceptions which are not recognized by the law of England. As there is no suggestion of collusion here, the only question is whether in this case there are such special circumstances as will entitle the legatees to maintain the action. I do not think that any better definition can be given of the special circumstances that constitute an exception to the general rule than that given by Vice-Chancellor Kindersley in Saunders v. Druce 1 : "If an executor refuses " (to file a bill), said the Vice-Chancellor, " or there is such a relation between the executor and the debtor as to interpose a substantial difficulty in the way of the executor calling the debtor to account, then the rule does not apply." In all the cases in which legatees have been allowed to bring actions directly for the recovery of the property, it will. I think, be found that there was something in the relationship between the executor and the defendant, or in the conduct of the executor himself, which was considered to amount to a substantial difficulty in the way of the executor calling the defendant to account. In the case I have cited, the refusal of the executor to take action, coupled with other circumstances, was considered to constitute such a difficulty. In Hill v. Simpson 2 a transfer by an executor of assets to secure his. own debt was allowed to be set aside by general legatees, on the ground that the circumstances disclosed gross negligence not amounting to fraud on the part of the executor. In Wilson v. Moore 3 the executor was the commercial correspondent of the defendants, and the latter applied funds which they knew were a part of the testator's assests to relieve the embarrassments of the executor. On the same principle residuary legatees have been allowed to maintain a bill for an account against the executor and the surviving partners of the testator (Bowsher v. Watkins 4 ). 1 3 Drewry 140. 3 1 Mylne and Keen 337. 2 7 Ves. Jur. 152. 4 1 Russ and Mylne 277. 436 In the present case, as there is no suggestion of collusion between the executrix and the defendants, the question remains whether the pleadings and admissions of counsel disclosed any substantial impediment in the way of the executrix maintaining the action. The case set up is that the executrix was the victim of a fraud practised on her by the defendants. It is difficult to see how the fact that the executrix was deceived by the defendants disables her from maintaining an action to obtain redress for the fraud, or makes it difficult for her to do so. An innocent person on whom a fraud has been practised would, generally speaking, be the most appropriate person to take steps to recover the property of which he has been deprived. It is true that the plaint alleges " undue influence " on the part of the defendants, but there is nothing which suggests that the plaintiff is so completely under the dominion of the defendants that she cannot be trusted to maintain this action. On the principles and authorities to which I have referred, I am satisfied that there is in this case no special circumstance which constitutes an exception to the general rule that a legatee cannot follow assets into the hands of the transferee. The Indian authorities cited by Mr. Bawa do not appear to me to have any bearing on the special branch of law under consideration. If the second to the ninth plaintiff, as I hold, could not have maintained this action alone, it follows that they cannot do so when joined with the first plaintiff. And the joinder of the second to the ninth plaintiffs with the first plaintiff, who is their representative in the administration of the estate, gives rise to further difficulties, which I need not discuss. For the foregoing reasons, I think that the learned District Judge was right in removing the second to the ninth plaintiffs form the record, and I would dismiss the appeal with costs. Pereira J.- I agree. There is no question that the executrix, by herself, can maintain this action. Indeed, she is the proper and only person to do so; and I do not think that a case to justify an order under section 472 of the Civil Procedure Code that the legatees or any of them should be made parties to this action has been made out. Ennis J. - This is an appeal from an order of the District Judge striking out the names of eight plaintiffs in the case. The action was by an executrix and beneficiaries to set aside certain deeds on the ground of fraud and undue influence, and the names of the beneficiaries have been struck out. Section 472 of the Civil Procedure Code lays down the general rule: "In all actions concerning property vested in a trustee, executor, or administrator, when the contention is between the persons beneficially interested in such property and a 437 third person, the trustee, executor, or administrator shall represent persons so interested, and it shall not ordinarily be necessary to make them parties to the action. But the Court may, if it think fit, order them to be made such parties. The order appealed from is an interlocutory order, the case has not been heard or the facts proved, so the only point for determination is whether there is anything in the averments which would justify the order. Section 11 of the Civil Procedure Code provides that all persons may be joined as plaintiffs in whom the right to any relief claimed is alleged to exist in respect of the same cause of action. In this case the second to ninth plaintiffs allege a right to relief against the defendants in respect of the same cause of action, and the question is whether the executrix sufficiently represents them under section 472 of the Code, not whether they have a right of action, as under section 11 the allegation of the right is sufficient. To decide this question, reference has been made to the rules of English law. It is clear from the English decisions that fraud and collusion between an executor and a third party justified the joining of the beneficiaries in an action. It is to be observed, however, that no case has been cited exactly similar to the present one, and that all the cases cited were decided prior to the Judicature Acts. In this case the third parties are the brothers of the deceased; the widow, the executrix, has no interest in the residue of the estate, and the counsel for the appellant states that she has not sufficient property to satisfy any decree that might be passed against her in an action by the beneficiaries should they take action and succeed. The beneficiaries do not set up fraud or collusion between the executrix and the defendants; they allege fraud by the defendants, and undue influence over the executrix by the defendants, her brothers-in-law. The combination of all these allegations is, in my opinion, a sufficient averment that the executrix does not adequately represent the beneficiaries, and that it is desirable to allow the beneficiaries to come in to protect their interests. This opinion is strengthened by the concluding words of section 11, by which judgment may be given for such one or more of the plaintiffs as may be found to be entitled to relief, for such relief as he or they may be entitled to without any amendment of the plaint for that purpose. It may be that the facts when proved will show that the beneficiaries should not have been joined, but in that case the Court could make order accordingly both as to costs and in the case. In a note in the English Annual Practice, under Order 16, Rule 8, it is stated: " If the questions which render the joining of beneficiaries necessary or proper are questions which require to be dealt with at the trial, they should be joined in the writ or added before trial." In this case the beneficiaries were joined as plaintiffs in the plaint; the question of undue influence is one which requires to be dealt 438 with at the trial, and this question, with" the very substantial interest which the beneficiaries have in the result, seeing that the executrix is alleged to be a person of no great means, would, I consider, be a good ground for not striking out their names at the instance of the defendants, in favour of whom, seeing that fraud is alleged, there is no object in extending the protection of the rule applicable in ordinary cases which prevents innocent persons dealing with executors from being called upon to defend innumerable actions at the instance of beneficiaries who may consider themselves aggrieved. I would allow the second to ninth paintings to be joined in the action, but my opinion in this respect differs from that of my learned brothers of the Bench in this appeal. Appeal dismissed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1912/40.html