
^^ 






OJorn^U Slam ^rlioal ^library 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




3 1924 084 1 



99 672 




The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924084199672 



THE 



APPEAL REPORTS 

FOR 1872, 

BEING 

REPORTS OF CASES 

ARGUED AND DETERMINED 

IN THE 

SUPPEME COURT OF CEYLON 

SITTING IN APPEAL. 

EDITED BT 

S, GRENIER, Esq., 

ADVOCATE. 



PART I. 



CONTAINING 



THE REPORTS OF POLICE COURT CASES. 



COLOMBO: 
PRINTED BT FRANCIS FONSEKA, PKINTEK, CHATHAM STREET, PORT. 

1872. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



THE APPEAL REPORTS FOR 1872, 

(iNCLUDIKG THE AEGUMENT3 OF COUNSEL IN ALL THE IMPORTANT CASES 
DECIDED BY THE COLLECTIVE COURT.) 

Edited by S. GtRENIBR, Advocate. 

Part I. — Police Courts. Part II. — Courts of Requests. Part III. — District 
Courts. 

Part 1, with a full and complete Index, will be ready for delivery to subscri- 
bers on the 10th of January, 1873. 

Parts II & m will be published shortly after. 

The Appeal Reports will be continued to be published annually in 3 volumes 
similar to those for 1872. 

[Having resolved somewhat late in the year to publish these reports in 
their present form, I have had to contend with the disadvantage and delay attend- 
ant upon procuring from outstation courts copies of a large proportion of oases 
the facts of which were not recited in the Supreme Court judgments or included in 
my own notes. I hope, however, to be able to avoid this inconvenience in future, 
by consulting the original records before they are dispatched from the Registry. 
I have undertaken this work with a sincere wish to serve the Profession ; and no 
effort will be wanting on my part to make the Appeal Reports for 1873 more full 
and complete than those for the current year. — S. tt.] 

Colombo, December 31st, 1872. 



THE APPEAL REPORTS. 



1872- 

POLICE COURTS. 

January 10, 

Present Ckeasy, C. J.- 
P. C. Colombo, 32513. The defendant was charged with hin-ing License to 
slaughtered a bullock, within the police limits of'Mulhiriyawa, without slaughter 
a license as required by the Ordinance No. 14 of 1852. He appeared, 
however', to have acted bona Me under a license, which he believed 
to-be sufficient, fi-om the Police Vidahn of Buttegammo, and the 
Magistrate thereupon acquitted him. In appeal, the judgment was 
affirmed. 



cattle. 



P. C. Matara, 69556. Held that a Diver was not a servant within A Diver not 
the meaning of the Ordinance No. 11 of 1865. a "Servant." 



January 17. 
Present Ckeasy, C. J. 
P. C. Kurunegala, 17032. The defendant was charged with hav- Obstructing a 
ing prevented the Deputy Coroner (the complainant) from holding an Coroner, 
inquest, by locking up the buikling in which the dead body was (^'^J'"'^^ 
hanging and by refusing to allow the Deputy Coroner and jury to 
have access to it. The evidence in the case was conflicting, but the 
Magistrate having recorded a verdict of guilty, his decision on a 
question of fact was held to be irreversible. 



January 24 , 
Present Ckeasy, C. J. 
P. C. Colombo, 33018. The defendant had been convicted, under False 
clause 166 of the Ordinance No. 11 of 1868, of having wilfully given information, 
false information to a police officer with intent to support a false 
accusation. It appeared that the defendant untruly told the police 
officer (complainant,) that he had been robbed of three boxes. He 
did not mention any one as the thief, nor did he name any one as 
suspected by him ; and it also appeared that no person had been 
charged with the theft by any one whatsoever. In appeal, the Chief 
Justice set aside the conviction in the following terras : " I have 
distussed the case with my colleague, Mr. Justice Temi-le, and his 
opinion agrees with mine. I think that in a case where no one has 



POLICE CODKTS. 



been or is accused, there is no accusation at all, and this conviction 
for supporting a false accusation must consequently be set aside." 



Receiving 

stolen 
property. 



P. C. Colombo, 33383. The plaint charged the 1st defendant with 
having stolen certain pr-operty, and the 2nd and 3rd defendants with 
having received the same with guilty knowledge. The Magistrate found 
that there was no evidence against the first defendant and discharged 
liiin. Tlie 2nd and 3rd defendants were found guilty and sentenced 
to one month's imprisonment at hard labor. In appeal, the 
judgment was affirmed ; and per Creasy, C. J. — " The appellants' 
guilt consists in having knowingly received stolen property, not in 
having received property which had been stolen by some particular 
person." 



Pica. 



License to 
possess 
firearms. 



Jurisdiction. 



P. C. Galagedara, 17753. Held that it was irregular to take a 
pica (if guilty in a Police Court case, subject to the opinion of the 
Supreme Court ; and that the exemption in the firet proviso in sec- 
tion 2 of Ordinance 22 of 1 848 should be taken to extend to the 
defendant, who had been proved to be a licensed " manufacturer of 
or dealer in arms," for as such the word " armourer " used in the 
record must be undcretood. 



P. C. Galle, 79709. Held that where, according to the evidence, 
a " severe wound with a knife " had been inflicted, the case ought to 
have been sent before the District Court. 



1 January 30. 

Present Creasi, C. J. 
Maintenance P. C. Mallakam, 2\ 442. Held that it would be a good defence, 
in a case ot maintenance, for the defendant to prove that his wife had 
lett him and was living in adultery. See R. v, Plintan, 1 B. & A, 227. 



Mnintenance. 

Effect ot 

adinission by 

cleft. 



Gambling. 



February 6. 
Present Creasy, C. J. 
7'. C. Matara, 69858. The defendant, in a maintenance case, in 
Com-t and in tjje presence and hearing of the Magistrate, added to his 
pica ot not guilty a statement that he had transferred property for the 
support of the child. This statement was regarded as evidence 
against him, and as an admission that the child was liis and that he 
was legally bound to support it. A conviction in this view, after a 
regular trial, was, in appeal, affirmed. 



P. C. Galagedara, 17336. There was no cross-examination to 
show that a witness, whose sole evidence s\ipported the charge (o-amb- 
ling,) spoke only from hearsay, when he said in his exandnation in 
chief •' I knew that shed was used for gambling and I have previoiisly 
complained about it to the Tolice." A conviction on such evidence 
was, therefore, upheld. 



POLICE COURTS. 

P. C, Colombo, 33677, Where a defendant was charged with hav- 
ing stolen a certain number of bricks, the property of the complainant, 
and the Magistrate, having heard only the complainant's evidence, ac- 
quitted the defendant, holding that no theft was disclosed, the Supreme 
Court set aside the judgment and sent the case back for further hear- 
ing, pointing out that the complainant had a right to have his witnesses 
examined, especially if he could prove, as he ofiered to do in his 
petition of appeal, that the defendant had sold the bricks as his (the 
defendant's) o-wn and appropriated the money. 



P. C. Colombo, 31707. The defendant was charged, under clause 
23 of Ordinance 4 of 1867, with having resisted and obstructed the 
complainant in the execution of his duty as an officer of the Fiscal, 
by forcibly removing five pieces of jackwood, which had been seized 
and sequestered under writ 53512 of the District Court of Colom- 
bo. The evidence for the prosecution disclosed that the jackwood 
had been entrusted by a Vidahn Arachchy (who had originally effect- 
ed the sequestration at the instance of the Fiseal) to complainant, 
who in turn had given it for safe keeping to a third party who stated 
that he had left the timber on the ground where it had been seized 
and that he had not seen the defendant removing it. The de- 
fendant, subsequently, admitted the removal by himself but 
questioned the right of the Fiscal to have sequestered. The 
Magistrate found the defendant guilty, and sentenced him to pay a 
fine of Ks. 20 and to be imprisoned for one day. In appeal, the 
judgment was set aside; and per Creasy, C.J. — " The defendant 
may be punishable for having received goods which were in the 
custody of the law, but it would be a dangerous straining of a 
penal statute to hold that the defendant's conduct in this case 
amounted to " making or inciting resistance or obstruction" under 
the 23rd section of the Fiscal's Ordinance." 



Theft. 



Resisting a 
Fiscal's 
officer. 



February 13. 
Present Creasy, C. J. 
P. (\ Kegalla, 3Z5\2. Held that charges of forcible entry were Forcible entry, 
not afieoted by section 119 of Ordinance 11 of 1868. 



P. C. Matara, 69894, The defendant was charged with having 
left some gunny bags on the road, in breach of section 4, clause 53 
of the Police Ordinance, He pleaded not guilty, but added that the 
bags were his and that they were on the drain. The Magistrate 
thereupon held as follows ; *the drain is a part of the road, so this 
(the plea of not guilty) must be recorded as a plea of guilty, and 
defendant is fined Rs. 10." In appeal, the judgment was set aside 
and case scut back for trial ; and per Creasy, C. J, — " No Judge has 
any right to order a defendant's plea of not guilty to be recorded as 



Pica. 



POLICE COURTS. 



a plea of guilty, against the defendant's will. What the defendant 
said may be evidence against him, but the Police Blagistrate ought 
to ti-y the case regularly, and hear such witnesses as may be brought 
forward on both sides." 



Toll. 



Trarling on 
Sundays.' 



P. C. Colombo, 329. Defendant having admitted that he had 
demanded and received halt a rupee as toll on complainant's 
bicycle, the i\IaG:istrate held him guilty of an unauthorised act in 
the following judgment : — "The defendant considers he was entitled 
to demand toll for the bicycle, as coming imder the description ' every 
vehicle not enumerated above' given in the 4th clause of the Toll Ordi- 
nance. I was certainly at first inclined to take this view, as it seemed 
to be borne out both by the definition given in the 3i'd clause of ' vehicle 
for passengers,' and by the fact that no species of vehicle is particu- 
larised in tlie 4th clause, the only limitation or qualifying words 
being according as the conveyance was drawn by horses, oxen or 
elephants. But on referring to the Chilaw Police Court case No. 
7788 (quoted by complainant's counsel,) I find it laid down by the 
Supreme Court that the words " vehicles not enumerated above," 
in the Ordinance No. 14 of 1867, must be construed with reference 
to the use of the w(rrds in the former part of the Ordinance, and taken 
to apply only to vehiclts drawn by horses, oxen, elephants or other 
beasts of burden. Following that construction, therefore, defendant 
was not entitled to demand any toll in the present instance. He is 
accordingly found guilty and adjudged to pay a fine of fifty cents." 
In appeal, per Creasy, C. J. — " Tlio Magistrate wks quite right in his 
interpretation of the Ordinance. According to the appellant's con- 
struction, a man might be made to pay toll for passing along on a pair 
of crutches." 



P. C. Galle, 79864. The defendant, who was a licensed wine- 
seller, was charged, under the 88th clause of the Police Ordinance, 
with having publicly pursued his trade on a, certain Sunday, and 
with having received into his shop some drunken sailors who created 
a disturbance during the hour of divine service in an adjoiniuo- 
church. He was convicted and fined Rs. 20, the Magistrate 
holding that " the defendant was carrying on his 
hearing of a place of worship during service." 
judgment was set asitle ; and per Crkasy, C. J. — " 



dence whatever that the defendant, 



business within 

III appeal, the 

' There is no evi- 



or any one actuig under his 
orders, was present. All that is provedmay have taken place with- 
out his knowledge and against his will." 



Defective P- ^- Colombo, 270. Wliere a plaint was defective on the face of 

plaint. it and could not be amended, consistently with the facts, so as to 

bring it within the Ordinance luidcr which it was laid, the' Supreme 



POLICE CODETS. 



Court set aside the Magistrate's conviction and directed that a 
iudgment of acquittal be entered up. Held, also, that " an open lane" 
was not such a place as the 6th section of clause 4 of Ordinance 4 of 
1841 applied to. 



P. C. Gdlle, 78929. This was a charge by a wife against the Maintenance, 
husband for maintenance. The evidence for the prosecution shewed 
that the wife had left the defendant's house, because she had been 
" ill-treated," and further that,the defendant had a mistress. The 
IMagistrate found as follows : " It appears that complainant left 
defendant (her husband,) subsequent to which he took to himself a 
mistress. This mistress defendant is ready to give up, if his wife will 
return. She refuses to do so. Defendant is discharged." In appeal, 
the judgment was set aside and case sent back for further hearing ; 
and per Creasy, C. J. — " There Is no evidence to show that the de- 
fendant had oiiered, before the period of desertion for which this 
charge was brought, to put away his mistress and take back his wife. 
The witnesses should be closely qxiestioned, as to the real extent and 
nature of the ill usage which made the wife leave the house." 



P. C. Galle, 72263.— The following judgment of the Chief Justice Maintenance, 
fully sets out the facts of the cose. " That the judgment of the 12th 
day of January, 1872, be set aside, and the case sent back for further 
hearing. The Supreme Court observes with regret that this Police 
Court case has been ponding since April 1870, that is for nearly 2years. 
It has come on for trial three times in the Police Court. On the fii'st 
occasion, the defendant was convicted but no plea was recorded and 
no witnesses were heard. On the second occasion, the complainant 
only was heard ; and even the whole of her evidence was not record- . 
ed, as appeared from a letter of the Police Magistrate in answer to 
inquiries made by this Court. The decisions of the Police Magistrates 
on both of those occasions were appealed against, and on both occasions 
this Court sent the case back. It came on, for the third time, on the 
12th of January last, and the Police JMa^^istrate, instead of regularly 
trying the case, only re-examined the complainant as to some evidence 
given by her on the former trial ; and then, because she failed to ex- 
plain it, he refused to hear her witnesses and acquitted the defendant. 
A third appeal was the inevitable result, and the case must now go 
back a third time. I have no doubt but that all the three Magistrates, 
who have thus hastily and imperfectly dealt with this case at various 
times in the Galle Court, were actuated by a laudable wish to save 
public time; but such "compendia" are almost always " dispendia," 
and the surest waiy to administer speedy as well as true justice is to 
try cases regularly, and to h?ar the witnesses on both sides fully and 
patiently. In sending this case back for a fourth trial, I shall 
endeavour to add such du-ections as may ensure the fourth trial being 
a final one. The complaint is brought under Ordinance 4 of 1841, 



roLICE COURTS. 

clause 3, by the mother of an illegitimate child, charging the defendant, 
as the father, with leaving the child without maintenance, so that it 
requires to be supported by others. It is necessary that the Police 
Magistrate should, before he convicts the defendant, be satisfied as to 
the paternity, and also as to the child requiring the support of others, 
that is to say of its being uuable to support itself. It appears from 
the record that when the case first came on for trial, the defendant, on 
being called on to plead, stated in open court that the child was his, 
but that as she was grown up the Ordinance did not apply. It furthfci* 
appears from the record, that the girl was produced and that the 
complainant stated in open court that the child was fourteen years old 
and full grown. Neither of these statements is to be taken as con- 
clusive against the party making !t. To do so would be to try a 
criminal case upon admissions, a course which this Court has frequently 
censured as improper. But proof of what the parties to the case said, 
respectively against their respective interests, is evidence against them ; 
and as these things were said in open court before the Judge and 
judicially recorded, judicial notice may be taken of the parties having 
said them, without caUing witnesses to prove that they heard them 
said. It would at first sight appear, then, that there was good evidence 
against the defendant as to the paternity ; but when the case came on 
for trial the second time, the register of tlie child's birth fas then under- 
stood) was put in evidence, with intent, I presume, to shew the child's 
refd age, and so to bear upon the question whether the child was able 
to support itself That register describes the child as the child not of 
defendant but of one Adrian, and the complainant then said that 
when she registei-ed this child (that is defendant's alleged child,) she 
gave tlie name of anotlier man as its father. This seems naturally 
enough to have surprised the Police Magistrate who then was trying 
the case, but unfortunately, instead of taking down the whole of com- 
plainant's attempted explanation, or hearing any more witnesses, he at 
once acquitted the defendant. On the third trial, the complainant 
asserted that defendant's child was not the child registered as Adrian's 
child. As the case stands at present, on the question of paternity, there 
is, on the one side, the defendant's own recorded statement that the 
child is his, and, on the other side, there is the recorded conduct of 
the complainant about the register which, coupled with the contra- 
dictions in her stories, is calculated to throw suspicion on her case 
It seems (after the defendant's statement) difficult to believe that he 
had not a child by the complainant, but there may be some question 
whether his child is the one in respect of which complainant now 
charges him. It is possible that the defendant may not have seen the 
child tor several years, before he saw a child said to be his in the Police 
Clourt, and though he must have known the sex of his child he may 
have been mistaken as to the identity of the girl then produced It is 
possible (I say nothing about probabilities) that the complainant may 
have a motive in pa«sin„^ ofl Adrian's child as defendant's child. 



rOLICE C0X3RTS. 

Defendant's child may be dead or may be earning its living, and 
she may be seeking to get money out of defendant by saying that 
Adrian's child is the defendant's. The Police Magisti-ate is request- 
ed to hear and consider the proofs on this subject which 
are already recorded, and also all further evidence that may be 
adduced by both parties on this question of paternity, and to 
state by his judgment what he believes to be the fact. Next, as to the 
question whether the child requires to be supported by others. It 
seems certain that it is not a young child, but it would appear not to 
have attained majority ; though, if the register produced at the second 
trial really applies to it, it must have been at least eighteen years old 
when this case was brought, and it may be useful to observe that we 
have to consider what was the said child's condition in April 1870, and 
not what it is at the present time. No absolute rule can be laid down 
as to the liability of a father, under this Ordinance, in respect of a child 
that has attained puberty but is still under 21. I think, on mature 
consideration and in accordance with the opinion previously intimated 
by this Court, that in the eye of the law a child continues to be a child 
until it attains majority, so far as regards the relationshiji of pai-ent and 
child under this Ordinance, But in pi-oportion as a. child's age 
increases, the probability increases that it supports itself or that it 
could do so, if proper means were taken to obtain employment. And 
if a child, whether girl or boy, works indoors or outdoors for its 
mother at home and renders services commensnrate with the cost of its 
keep, I should be disposed to consider that it earned its keep and was 
self-supporting. On this principle, in the Matara case in 1860, where a 
man was convicted for neglecting to support several of his children, 
this Court set aside the conviction and the fine so far as regarded the 
elder children who appeared to be able to support themselves. This 
question, as to a child being able to support itself or really requiring 
the support of others, is one which must be determined in each case 
according to the circumstances of the case. Considerable regard 
must be had to age ; but regard must also be had to sex, health, 
strength, locality and the numerous other matters which will occur 
to the good sense and observation of the Magistrate as he tries the case. 
He is requested to hear fully all the evidence that may be adduced on 
both sides, in addition to the materials already supplied by the record ; 
and the Supreme Court feels no doubt but that his judgment, on both 
the questions of factwhicharisehere, will be satisfactory and conclusive." 



February 20. 

Present Ceeasy, 0. J. 

P. C. Jaffna, 33. Held, under the provisions of the Ordinance 1 Headman's 

of 1842, that if the defendant (a headman) had any reason for not schedule 

granting the Schedule therein referred to, he should have given a writ- *'° ^^'^ '^"''• 
ten statement of his reasons. 



POLICE COURTS, 



Secondary P. C. Jafna, 23212. Before any secondary evidence of a license 
evidence. gould be legally admissible, the party possessing it should have had 

notice to produce the original and proof should be given of the 

service of such notice. 



Arr.ick BaZopjftmorfara,— Held that a person might "dispose of" aTrack ni 

Ordinance, many -prays without there being any sale, and might so bring himself 

within the operation of the Ari-aok Ordinance 10 of 1844; 



Labor p. c. Nawalapitiya, 17357. The plaint in this case was as follows : 

Ordinance, citjiat the defendants, being servants and canganies, did without 
reasonable cause neglect and refuse to attend, on the 1st of April, 
1871, at Chrystler's-farm Estate, when and where they had con- 
tracted to attend in comniencing work, in breach of the 11th clause 
of the Ordinance No. 1 1 of 1 865." Mr. Martin, who was the com- 
])lainant, stated that the defendants had come seeking to be employed 
under him and had engaged themselves to work from the first of 
April. He added " they were to receive wages' from me which are 
usual in the district (Dimbulla) and were to have weeding contracts.'' 
The Magistrate acquitted the defendants in the following terms : "In 
this case defendants are canganies who, according to the statement 
of complainant, promised to leave the estate on which they were work- 
ing and go with a fixed number of coolies to work on complainant's 
estate, and failed to act up to their promise. They are charged under 
clause 11 of Ordinance No. 11 of 1865. Defendants received lio 
advances. Complainant's case discloses the most irregular and 
shadowy agreement with defendants. Such a contract was essentially 
one to be reduced to writing. Defendants were never servants of 
complainant, so as to be liable to the punishment laid down in the clause 
imder which they are charged. Defendants ai-e found not guilty and 
are accordingly acquitted." In appeal, the Supreme Court set aside 
the judgment and sent the case back for further hearing and con- 
sideration ; and per Creasy, C. J. — " The accused appear to be Can- 
fiMnies by occupation, and as such to Be servants within the meaning 
ol the Ordinance. It is not necessary that at the time of the contract 
made, or at the time of the breach, they should have already become 
actually working servants of the complainant. To hold that would 
be to nullify the parts of the 11th section, which, impose a fine on a 
servant who neglects to attend when and where he has contracted to 
attend in " commencing " work. But part of the consideration, for 
which these accused were to come to work for the complainant, was 
that they were to have weeding contracts. The agreement for the 
weeding formed an essential part of the agreement to come and work 
on the estate. If the weeding was to go on for more than a month 
(cither according to express arrangement or according to usao-e and 
the customary nature of such work,) the conti'act between the parties 



POLICE COURTS. 



was a contract which, according to the 7th section of the Ordinance 
ought to have been in writing, so as to make the accused liable under 
the 1 1th section. The Police Magistrate is requested to investigate 
the matter. The plaint ought to be amended by describing the accused 
as servants and canganies." 



P. C. Colombo, 429. The defendant was found to have been in 
possession of an umbrella belonging to the complainant, within four 
months after its loss. There was evidence of an addition havino- been 
made to it, since the loss, which would partially alter its appearance- 
This was held to be proof that the finder (supposing the umbrella to 
have been merely lost and found,) took it and dealt with it with a 
dishonest purpose, so as to constitute a theft. The Magistrate having 
further believed that the defendant had set up a lying story to 
account for his possession, the conviction, in appeal, was affinued. 



February 28. 
Present Ceeasy, C. J. 
The B. M. Colombo, 7644. Held that the Fort Canal did not 
come within the meaning of the terms " stream, tank, reservoir, well, 
cistern, conduit or aqueduct," specified in clause 1, section 7 of the 
Nuisances Ordinance, 1862 ; but that any one who created a public 
nuisance, by polluting the water of the Canal, was liable to be indicted 
for a criminal ofience at common law. 



P. C. Kaipitiya, 3838. Held, under a charge for maintenance, that 
if a husband beat his wife and brought an adulteress under his roof, 
it would be legally equivalent to an act of desertion ; that the wife, 
however, in such cases, was not a legal witness against the husband ; 
and, further, that the Magistrate had no power to d ecree future alimony. 



Theft. 



Nuisance. 



Desertion. 

Future 
alimony. 



P. C. Panadure,\^\9Q. Held that the Supreme Court would not t, ■• „ 

.,„,.',. , . , K , . Police Court 

interfere with Police Magistrates judgments, either on mere questions judgments.. 

of value of evidence, or on account of the sentence, if the sentence 

were authorized by law. 



March 7. 
Present Temple, J. 
P. C. Negombo, — Held that, under the 1st clause of Ordinance 1 1 a Dhoby is a 
of 1865, the word " servant" had a very extensive meaning, 
included a Dhoby employed to wash for a family. 



and " Servant." 



March 15. 
Present Temple, J. 
P. C. Putlam, 5606. Where, apart from certain evidence which 
had been illegally received, there was sufficient proof before the 
Magistrate to justify a conviction, the Supreme Court, in appeal, 
declined to interfere with his finding. 



Evidence, 



10 POLICE COURTS. 

March 27, 

Present Temple, J. 

Postponement. P- C. Matara, 70075. Held that there was no appeal against a 

Magistrate's order allowing a postponement, and that the Supreme 

Court would not interfere in such cases to issue a Mandamus unless 

on good cause shewn. 



Autrefois. P. C ilfatora, 70091. Held that the plea of autre fois acquit in 

acquit. tjjg gJ^gg ^^j^g of maintenance) had been improperly received ; and 

per Temple, J . — " A charge against a man for deserting his wife or 

child IS a continuing oflence and he cannot plead a former acquittal." 



Toll P. C. Oampola, 22656. Held that a certificate from an "overseer," 

certincate. instead of from the " superintending officer," is insufficient in a defence 
to a prosecution under clause 7 of the Toll Ordinance 14 of 1867. 



April 13. 
Present Ckeast, C. J. 
Evidence of P. C. Galle, 79499. Held, in a prosecution under the Malicious 
title. Injuries Ordinance, that something more than the bare assertion of 
the defendant was necessary to justify the Magistrate treating the 
case as one of bona fide disputed title. 



Refusing P. (7. Colombo, A. Held that a delay of fourteen days, in pre- 

process, ferring a complaint, might be a reason for watching the evidence 
with special vigilance, but did not justify the rejection of the case 
without a hearing. 

Refusing P. C. Avisawella, 15652. A charge of assault had not been 
process. entertained, because the complainants could suggest no reason for the 
offence. In appeal, the order was set aside and the case sent back 
for trial, the Chief .Justice remarking that to hold as the Maoistrate 
did, would be to give impunity to wanton and unprovoked insolence 
and brutality. 

April 29. 
Present Creast, C. J. 
Irregularity P. 0. Oalagedara, 17965 The charge in this case was "that the 
in Plaint, defendants did, on the iSth of March, 1872, at the Galagedara Court- 
house compound, arrest complainant on a warrant No. 11086 (Kandy ) 
and remove him to Kadugannawa, without producing him before the 
Justice of the Peace at Galagedara, where he was arrested, in breach 
of clauses 155, 156 and 163, and did detain him in custody beyond 24 
hoiirs in breach of clause 167, of Ordinance No. 11 of 1868." The 
complainant appeared to have been in attendance at Galagedara as a 



POLICE COURTS. 

witness in a civil suit and also for the purpose of opening up a 
judgment which had been entered against him by default. The 
Magistrate held as follows: — "In this case defendants had ar- 
rested complainant in this Court-house. They then hurried him 
ofl, with indecent haste, without producing him before the Justice of 
the Peace at Galagedara in terms of the 155th clause, and very 
unnecessarily handcufied him. They did not take him to Kandy, as 
they should have done, but took him to his village and then to Ka- 
dugannawa, where they used great unnecessary violence, by putting 
him in the stocks, which was in no way ca,lled for. They have actu- 
ally not detained him quite the 24 hours, though had they been left 
to themselves they doubtless would hav«, as there only remained one 
and a half hours to gp nine miles in. The disgraceful disregard of 
the intention of the 165th clause, which it is clear they only avoided 
as they wished to prevent complainapt'a giving the b?il taken by the 
J. P. in 4003 yesterday ; the gross contereiipt of the ordinary respect 
due to a court of justice and the presiding Justice of the Peace ; the 
violence used, and the unnecessary delay in goi,ng to Kadugannawa 
instead of to Kandy directly ; all lea,d ^»e to consider it a case requir- 
ing a severe penalty. I believe they only went by Kadugannawa ta 
evade being called back, thinking their route would not be traced. 
The first and second defendants, as Fiscgl's ciiicers serving warrant 
11086, and third defendant, as their ^si&tant, afe found guilty of a 
breach of the 155th, 156th and 163rd clauses, and acquitted of a 
breach of the 1 67th clause, of Ordinayace No. U of 186d. I allow 
them the benefit of the doubt in the case of the 16Zth clause. The 
defendants are severally sentenced to six weeks' imprisonment with. 
hard labor." In appeal, it was urged that the Kandy Justice wha 
had issued the warrant (Mr. Steveaj: t), h9,d jujigdictipn over Galaged- 
ara, and that the requirements, of the 155th clause of the Ordinance 
would have been met by the com,plajn?pit being produced before him 
as " the Justice of the District within whose jurisdiction the arrest 
was made.'' The judgir^ent of ^e Polfce Court, however, was affirm- 
ed ; and per Ckeasx-, C. J. — " This conviction fe substantially right, 
though the charge against the 3rd defendant" — (a private person 
and not a Fiscal's officer) — " ought to have been laid under the 155th, 
156th and 161st clauses of the Ordinance ; but this irregularity has 
not prejudiced the substantial rights of the party, and it is therefore 
the duty of the Supreme Court not to alter the sentence on that 
account. (See 20th clause of Ordinance 1 1 of 1868.) The objection 
about the summons is frivolous. The record shows that the parties 
appeared and were ready for trial." 



P. C. Matara,702S6. Held that " cases of assault where the knife 
was used, but no dangerous wound Inflicted, might be properly sent 
to the Disti^ict Court, but were beyond the jurisdiction of a Police 
Court." 



Jurisdiction. 



12 POLICE COURTS, 

Refusins; P. C. Cohmho— An order of the Magistrate refusing process tras 

process. ggt ^side in the following terras : " It might be very useful if Police 
Magistrates had power to refuse process in cases that appeared to be 
frivolous, but the Legislature has not given such power. Here the 
plaint and the preliminary examination of the complainant both dis- 
close an ofienoe recognizable by the Police Court, and the Police 
Magistrate was tl^erefore bound to entertain tl^e cha,rge." 



May 17. 
Present Stewart, J. 
Conviction P- ^- Oalle, 80403. Held that a person charged only with theft 
not consistent could not be convicted of receiving stolen property with guilty 
with charge, knowledge, ' 

Postponement. P- C. Co?07nSo,] 61 8. Held that where complainant desired a 
postponement, he stovtld supply to the Magistrate on an affidavit. 



Wife pre- P- C- Panadure, 19471. Where a husband and wjfe had both been 

sumed to have convicted on a charge undertime Ordinance 10 of 1844, the Supreme 

acted under g,,^.^ gg^ aside the finding as to the wife in the following terms : 

husband " the second defendant must be presumed to. have acted (unless the 

cputrary be made clearly to appear upon the evidenoe,) under the 

influence and coercion of her husbaind, the first defendant ; the 

arrack having been sold in h^ presence and apparently under his 

authority. See Russell oi^ Criipes, yol, 1, p. 33." 



May 22. 

Present Stewart, J. 

A party bound P. C Jaffna, 308. Held that a defendant having been bound over 

over niiiy he \a keep the peace upon an affidavit touching an assault on com- 

^res^c")-^ f'" plainant, was no bar to a charge in.respect of the same ofltence being 

same offence, subsequently tried in the Police Court. "Should the accused," added 

Stewart J., " be found guilty, the fact of security for the peace having 

already been given will be a proper circumstance to consider, and 

make allowance for, in determining the punishment." 



Admission by P. C- Panadure, 19,453. A frivolous objection to the reception of 
deft. j.[r. Tonseka Modliar's evidence in the case having been upheld by 
the Court below, the Supreme Court set aside the judgment and 
remanded the case for further hearing, pointing out "that, even if Mr 
Fonseka held an office of magistei-ial authority, any admission to him 
by the defendant would be admissible in evidence, if made freely and 
voluntarily." 



POLICE COURTS. 13 

P. C. Colombo,— Held that the Ordinance No. 18 of 1871 did not Refusing 
empower a Pohce Magistrate to refuse process merely because he piocess. 
thought the case frivolous, and that to justify such refusal it was 
necessary that the plaint, or the examination of the complainant, should 
disclose that no legal crime or offence or one not cognizable by a 
Police Court had been committed. 



P C. Matara, 70243. Held that the Ordinance No. 18 of 1871. Plaint, 
did not make it necessary, where the Police Magistrate took down the 
plaint himself (as was done in this case,) that it should be signed by 
the complainant. 

P. C. Matale, 672. Held that husbands and wives were legal wit- Evidence, 
nesses against efvch other in proseputions for bodily injury inflicted by 
one upon the other. 



P. C. Campofa, 23123. An order of the Magistrate, requiring the P. M. cannot 
defendant to give security for his good behaviour, was set aside as demand bail 

illegal: arid per Stewart, J.— "The 104th section of the Ordinance 11 .*"/ ^?°^ 
J. , . -n. i- X, ■ ■ ■ behaviour, 

or 1868 authorizes a Police Magistrate in certain cases to bind over 

parties to keep the peace ; but no such power is given to a Police 

Magistrate as to good behaviour." 



May 31. 
Present Stewart, J. 
P. C. Galagedara, 1 7892. Held, in a prosecution under the ];4th offence and 
and 26th clauses of Ordinance No. 10 of 1844^ that the offence was punishment 
single and the penalty should, accordingly be single. See B & V, I, 189. single. 
Keg. v. Clark, 2 Cowp., 612, 

P. C. Panadure, 19177. Where it did not appear, in aprosecution Damages for 
for trespass under the Ordinance No. 2 of 1835, that the assessment trespass. 
of damages had been made by the "principal resident headman of- the 
village," and that three respectable persons had assisted at the assess- 
ment, as contemplated in the 3rd clause by which the attendance of such 
persons, if procurable, was made neeessary, the Supreme Court re- 
manded the case for further hearinsr. 



Jv,ne 4. 

Present Creasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 

P. C. Matara, 70406. The defendants were charged with having 

unlawfiiUy cut and removed timber from a crown chena. Their crownTand 

proctor, on the case for the prosecution being closed, declined to call 

any evidence, relying on the fact that the complainant had omitted to 



Timber on 



14 



POLICE COtritTS. 

prove that the chena was crown property. The Magistrate, however, 
found the defendants guilty, and fined them in the sum of Rs. 50 
each. In appeal, by the 3rd defendant, the judgment was affirmed ; 
and per Curiam,— "The burden of proof is thrown on the defendant, as 
to the land being or not being crown property. See Ordinance No. 24 
of 1848, section 12. There was legal evidence that the appellant 
took part in the removal of the tree." 



June 6. 



Present Creasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
Jurisdiction. P. C. ( olomho, 1587. This was a charge against the defendant, 
for not maintaining his illegitimate child. The complainant was 
clearly proved to be a resident of Wattepittewelle, a place out of the 
jurisdiction of the Colombo Police Court. According to her own 
account, she " went to live at Pettiagodde in order to bring this case 
in the Colombo Court ;" but there was evidence to show that she had 
always been seen in her village after each postponement. The de- 
fendant was a resident of Haogalle. It was evident, therefore, in the 
ab.sence of any evidence that the child was ever at Pettiagodde, that 
the desertion, if any, took place at Wattepittewelle, within the juris- 
diction of the Pasyala Court. The Magistrate, however, found the 
defendant guilty, but expressed his doubts as to his jurisdiction. In 
appeal, the judgment was set aside. 



June 12. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
Contempt. P- C. Matara, A. In this case the defendant had been found 
guilty of contempt, and sentenced to fourteen days' imprisonment, 
for having addressed the following letter to the Magistrate : 

" Tangalla, 15th March, 1872, 5 p. M. 

" Sir, - I herewith give you notice that I'll sue you for 990 Rupees for 
damage sustained by me in consequence of your having assaulted and 
falsely imprisoned and caused to be so on the 13th ultimo for the space of 
15 minutes. I further beg leave to suggest for an amicable settlement on 
payment of above amount within 48 hours from date and time hereof in 
default of so doing I'll take legal steps to recover same. 

I beg leave to remain Sir, your obdt. servant, 

(Signed in Singhalese.)" 
In appeal, the judgment was set aside ; and per Curiam.—" In 
this case the appellant, who seems to be a foolish and ignorant 
man, sent the Police Magistrate, by post, a letter which is in the 
nature of a notice of action.- We do not think that the Police Mao-is- 
trate was warranted in dealing with it as a contempt of Court." " 



POLICE COUKTS. 



15 



P. C. Mafale, 690. The defendants had been convicted of gam- 
bling, in breach of section 4, clause 4 of Ordinance 4 of 1841. The 
offence, as disclosed by the complainant's evidence, was that the 
1 st and 2nd defendants were playing a game oi " breaking «oooanuts 
and betting rupees," and that the others were sitting in a ring playing at 
a game called " Zyplese," and betting on the game. In appeal, 
the judgment was set aside and case remanded for further hearing, 
" in order that evidence may be taken, as to the kind and nature of 
the games that were being played, to see whether they fall within 
the Ordinance." 



Gambling 



P. C. Kaluiara, A727 5. Held that the full toll of six pence was 
leviable on a relieving horse passing a toll bar unharnessed to any 
vehicle, and that such animal did not come within the description of 
" every additional horse used in drawing such vehicle and attached 
thereto," contained in the schedule appended to clause 4 of Ordinance 
14 of 1867. 



June 26. 
Present, Ceeast, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
P. C. Mullaittivu, 7851. WherC) under an agreement, the defend- 
ant was to be compensated for his labor by a share in the proceeds of 
a certain fishery, and it was specially stipulated that for any negli- 
gence on his part " the proprietor might bring an action in the Court," 
it was held that no criminal prosecution could be maintained against 
him undei* the penal provisions of Ordinance ll of 1865. 



V. C, Kandy, 90534. Where, in a prosecution for crimping, under 
the 19th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865, the offence disclosed on the 
evidence was that of forcible abduction and rape, the Supreme Court 
held that the Labor Ordinance did not apply. 



Toll 
Ordinance. 



Labor 
Ordinance. 



labor 
Ordinance 



July 3. 
Present Cbeasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
P. C. Nuwarahalawiya, 7534. The judgment of the Magistrate 
on a question of fact was affirmed ; and per Creasy, C. J. — " The 
Police Magistrate's letter shows that the assertions in the petition 
of appeal are false which complain of the defendant's having not been 
allowed suflScient time and opportunity for defence. Let the peti- 
tion-drawer be informed that, if he draws up any more such false and 
scandalous documents for presentation to the Supreme Court, he 
will mak'e himselt liable to be punished by that Court for contempt." 



Petition 
Drawers. 



P. C. Balapitimodara, 43072. Held that "giving false evidence as False infor- 
a witness" did not come within clause 166 of the Administration of mation 



16 



POLICE COURTS. 

Justice Ordinance, but that " giving false information, whether by 
affidavit or not, whereon to found a charge", did com(? within the 
clause ; also, that to try two defendants together on one plaint, but 
for distinct charges, was " a very irregular and inconvenient proceed- 
ing." 



Maintenance, 



Jurisdiction. 



P. C. Oalle, 72263. The defendant in this maintenance ease 
(which is fully reported in page 5,) was acquitted at the fourth trial 
in the Police Court. In appeal, the judgment was affirmed ; and per 
Creasy, C. J, — " The complainant was bound to make out a case of 
adulterine bastardy and has entirely failed to do so. The Police 
Magistrate's judgment on fact is conclusive, but, as there has been so 
much litigation between these parties, it may be useful for the 
Supreme Court to state that we fully agree with the Police Magistrate 
in believing the child to be Adrian's child and not the defendant's 
child." 



P. C. Galle, 80405. This was an appeal, against a conviction for 
assault, on the ground of jurisdiction. The finding of the Magistrate, 
however, was affii'med ; and per Ckeast, C. J. — " A defendant who 
wishes to object to the jurisdiction of a Police Magistrate, on account 
of the aggravated character of an assault, should make the objection 
in that Court, and before the Police Magistrate has given his decision 
as to guilty or not guilty. In very extreme cases, and where the 
defendants had no professional adviser when before the Police Magis- 
trate, the Supreme Court may allow and may even itself take and 
maintain the objection arising out of the aggravated character of the 
assault. But this is not a case of this kind." 



Evidence. 



Defective 
plaint. 



P. 0. Kegalla, 34279. . Held that, under clause 7 of Ordinance 6 
of 1868, imregistered sannases were not inadmissible in criminal 
proceedings, even though the criminal judge should be incidentally 
obliged to enquire into title. 



P. C. Matale, 845. The charge was laid in the following plaint: 
"that the defendant did, on the 10th of April last and during several 
days previously, grossly misconduct himself, whilst in the employ of the 
defendant, in breach of the 11th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865." 
The defendant having been found guilty, an objection was taken in 
appeal, that the plaint had been too vague to allow of a proper de- 
fence being prepared. The Magistrate's judgment, however, was 
affirmed; and per Curiam. — "The objection as to the vao-ueness 
with which the charge is laid in the plaint (if the objection be a good 
one) should have been taken before conviction." 



POLICE COURTS. 



17 



July 9. 
Present Cbeasit, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
P. C Colombo, 2120. The plaint in this case was as follows: " that 
the defendant did, on the 24th January, 1872, at the Fort, Colombo, 
sufter a large quantity of sour and offensive beer to be emptied into a 
drain leading into the Fort Canal, whereby the water in the said 
Canal was fouled in a manner prejudicial to public health." The 
Magistrate found the charge proved, but held that the fact pleaded in 
defence — that the accused was ignorant that the drain in question 
emptied itself into the Canal, — might go in mitigation of the sentence 
The defendant was accordingly fined only 50 cents. In appeal, the 
judgment was affirmed ; and per Cdriam. — "The Supreme Court 
thinks this conviction right. It is difficult to suppose that the defend- 
ant did not know that his drain communicated with the Canal ; and 
even if such ignorance existed, it must have been the result of 
such crassa negligentia, in not ascertaining the course of the drain 
before he poured the ofiensive matter into it, as would make the 
defendant legally liable for the consequence. With respect to the 
supposed necessity of a mens rea. we refer to our decision in P. C. 
PanwiUa, 1 3999,* where we pointed out that, in prosecutions for 
nuisances, it is no defence to shew that the accused had no design to 
break the law." 



Nuisance. 

("NewrnHn's 

case.) 



July 23. 
Present Temple, J. 
P. C. Galle, 76783. Held that a husband, although legally divorced Maintenance. 
from his wife, was bound to maintain his children by her. 



July 30. 
Present Temple, J. 
P. C. Panadure, 19806, Where a Division Officer had been con- 
victed under section 3, clause 46' of the Thoroughfares Ordinance of 
1861, without a Queen's Advocate's certificate authorising the trial, 
the proceedings, m appeal, were quashed. 



Division 
Officer. 



P. C. Kalutara, 46237. An order of the Ma^strate, requiring Security to 
security to keep the peace, was set aside in the following terms : " the keep the peace, 
defendants having been acquitted, no sufficient reason appears for 
binding them over to keep the peace." ' 



August 6. 
Present Temple, J. 
J. P. Kalpitiya, 490. This was an appeal against an order of the gegnritv to 
Justice of the Peace, binding over two defendants, under a charge of keep the peace. 

» Vide Civil Minutes, 3rd October, 1871. 



18 POLICE COtJRTS. 

riot and assault, to keep the peace for twelve months. It was argued 
tor tlie appellants that the evidence showed that the complainants and 
the accused were equally to blame, and that the Justice had no i-ight 
to demand security only from the defendants, contrary to the direc- 
tion of the Deputy Queen's Advocate (to whom the proceedings had 
been duly referred,) that both the parties to the case should be bound 
over. For the respondents, it was contended that appeals of this 
kind were restricted, by the 229th clause of Ordinance II of 1868, to 
orders "requiring" or "refusing" security, and were made subject to the 
ridea and regul ations relating to appeals from Police Courts. It was 
for tlie Supreme Court, therefore, to say whether the present order 
sliould stand or fall by itself, totally irrespective of the complainants, 
and whether the finding of the Justice on a' matter of fact could be 
legally interfered with. Sed per Temple, J. — " It is considered and 
adjudged that the order of the Justice of the Peace be amended, by 
the Justice of the Peace being directed to bind over both pai'ties to 
keep the peace." 

Autre fois P- C. Avisawella, 15853. Held that the plea of autre fois acquit 

acquit. was not available where the previous proceedings had been quashed, 
the quashing of an indictment having the same effect as if the case had 
been abandoned. 



Avgust\^. 
Present Temple, J. 

n^nMsSil ^' ^' P<'"""''<''«' 19448. Where, without sufficient evidence 

■*to show that the charge was not one of theft, the parties had 

been prematurely referred to a civil action, the Supreme Court 

set aside a verdict of acquittal and sent the case back for further 

hearinu. 



Dismissal. 



August 20. 
Present Temple, J. 
Nuisance. j> (^ Batlicaloa, 5087. The plaint was to the following efiect : (1) 

" that the defendant did, on the 29th of June and three followin<T 
days, store in the premises of the Customs at Puliyantivoe, beinn- in 
tlie uc-ighbourhood of private habitations, without the permit of the 
Chaiiman of the Board of Health of the Eastern Province, offensive 
matter, to wit salt fish, in breach of clause 1 7 of the Bye-laws of the 
Board of Health ; (2) that the defendant did, for 24 hours after 
receiving a written notice, from the Chairman of the said Board of 
Health, calling upon him to remove the said offensive matter, to wit the 
.-alt fish stored as aforesaid, neglect to remove the same, in breach of 
clause 8 of Ordinance No. 15 of 1 862." A verdict of guilty was found 
by the Magistrate, on both counts, and the defendant sentenced to pay 
a fine of Rs. 30. In appeal, it was urged that the words "other 



POLICE COURTS. 



19 



ofiensive matters" occurring in the bye-law, should be controlled by 
the specific words which preceded them, viz. " manures," and " bones," 
and that the salt fish in question which, according to the medical 
evidence for the prosecution, " was not rotten and was not imfit for 
food," did not fall within matters ejusdem generis. (The Wanstead 
Local Board of Health v. Hill, 41 L. J. (m. c.) 135.) Sed per Temple, 
J. — Affirmed. 



P. C. Colombo, 2874. Held that the fact of a defendant being 
reported not to be found was no reason for dismissing a case. 



P. C> Galle, 81955. Where a Magistrate had fined a defendant, 
under the 18th clause of Ordinance 17 of 1867, the Supreme Court, 
in appeal, altered the sentence to one of imprisonment for fourteen 
days, the Ordinance not allowing the imposition of a fine. 



Wrong 
Disiuissnlt 



Illegal 
Sentence. 



August 27. 

Present Temple, J. 

P. C. Qalle, 81566. In a prosecution under the 118th clause of 

Ordinance 17 of 1869, it was held that proof of payment of Customs 

duties, in respect of the goods' seized, rested with the defendant, and 

that the complainant was not bound to lead evidence as to non-payment. 



Customs 
Duties. 



P. C. Colombo, 2582. The defendant was charged with not having Maintenance, 
maintained his wife and child. The following entry was made by the 
Magistrate on the day of trial : " the defendant states he is ready to 
support his wife and child. Complainant states she cannot live with*" 
him. Defendant is fined Ks. 10. He is ordered to make monthly pay- 
ments into Court,— in default one month's hard labour in jail." In 
appeal, the order was set aside and case sent back for hearing ; and 
per Temple, J. — " The complainant must give evidence of her inabi- 
lity to live with her husband. The Ordinance 4 of 1841 does not 
empower the Police Court to award future maintenance." 



P. (7, Panadure, 19804. Where a Magistrate had convicted a de- 
fendant under the 11th clause of Ordinance 7 of 1848,, in the absence 
of proof that the vehicle in question was a hired one, the Supreme 
Court set aside the judgment and quashed the proceedings. 



CariiJige 
Ordinance. 



September 4, 

Present Creasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 

P. C. Kandy, 90663. In a prosecution under the 4th clause of 

Ordinance 24 of 1848, the Magistrate acquitted the defendants on the 

ground that he was not convinced that the land in question was 

crown property. In appeal, the judgment was set aside aiid case sent 



Timber 
Ordinance. 



20 



POLTCE COURTS. 

back for further hearing ; and per Oueiam. — " Ordinance 24 of 184S, 
section 12, makes it necessary for the defendants to prove that the 
land is not crown land. This certainly has not been done in the 
present case. If the burden of proof lay on the Crown, we should not 
interfere with the Police Magistrate's decision as to the insufficiency 
of the evidence for the Crown ; but, by the Ordinance, the defendants 
cannot succeed unless they prove positively, either by cross-examina- 
tion or by fresh evidence, that the land is other than crown land." 



• September 5. 
Present Creasy, C. J, and Temple and Stewaet, J. J, 
Obstructing a ' P. C. Panadure, 19464. The defendants had been charged with 
. thoroughfare, having obstructed a public thoroughfare, in breach of the 94th clause of 
Ordinance 10 of 1861. The Magistrate having acquitted them, with- 
out assigning sufficient grounds for his judgment, the case had been 
sent back on the following order made by the Chief Justice : — " Re- 
quest the Police Magistrate to state the reasons for his judgment. 
It does not appear at present whether he thinks that in point of fact 
there has been no obstruction, or whether he thinks this not to be a 
thoroughfare within the meaning of the Ordinance. The evidence 
for the prosecution on both points seems to be very full and conclu- 
sive." The Magistrate's reply having this day been read, the judg- 
ment of the Supreme Court was recorded as follows. — " The letter 
of the Police Magistrate shews that he finds, as a point of fact, the 
path to be a private path and not a public one. We cannot review 
his decision on facts. If it is really important to have the long con- 
tinued dispute as to the path authoritatively settled, it would be beat 
to take proceedings in the District Court. Our affirmation of this 
case would be no bar to such proceedings." 



Toll. 



September 11, 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
P. C. Kegalla, 4692. Held that when the Governor, by proclama- 
tion, appointed a particular place at which toU was to be taken, the 
toll-keeper had no right to take toll at another place. " When lie 
does so, he comes under the 15th clause of the Toll Ordinance of 
1867, by taking toll in a case in which toll is not payable under the 
provisions of the Ordinance." 

Maintenance, ^- C. Galle,?.\1\9. Held that it was competent for the complainant, 
in a maintenance case, to prove that the amount offered by defendant 
was insufficient for the maintenance of her two children and that he 
was liable to pay a larger sum. 

September 18. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J, 

Gnmblinc P. 0- Matale, 9S7. Where the evidence shewed that the defend- 

ants had gambled amongst some coffee trees in a garden belonging to 



POLICE COURTS. 



21 



one of them, and there was no proof that the place was kept or used 
for the purpose of common or promiscuous gaming, or that it was 
such a public place as contemplated in the 4th section, 4th clause of 
Ordinance 4 of 1841, it was held that the defendants could not be 
convicted. 



September 27. 
Present Cbeast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
P. C. Trincomalie, 23377. Where the defendant had been sen- 
tenced to pay a fine of Rs. 50 and, in default, to be imprisoned for a 
certain period, the Supreme Court amended the order by striking off 
the alternative of imprisonment. " If the accused does not pay the 
fine, imprisonment will follow as provided for by Ordinance 6 of 1855." 



P. C. Galagedara, 18005. The defendants were convicted, under 
clause 23 of Ordinance 4 of 1867, of having resisted the complain- 
antin the discharge of his duty as a Fiscal's officer, while engaged in 
watching a granary under sequestration. In appeal, the con- 
viction and proceedings were quashed ; and per Cobiam, — " The Police 
Court had no jurisdiction to try the charge without the election of 
the Queen's Advocate. See II 9th section of Ordinance 11 of 1868. 
Besides, the writ of sequestration should have been produced." 



Wrong 
sentence. 



Fiscal's 
OrdinaQce. 



P. C. Panadure, 19965. Where no discretion as to the amount of 
fine was allowed by Ordinance, the Supreme Court would alter the 
Magistrate's sentence and award the full penalty prescribed by law. 



P. C. Jaffna, 912. Held, in a prosecution under the Malicious 
Injuries Ordinance, that the defendant was not to be convicted if it 
appeared that he did the act complained of under a bona fide, though 
possibly mistaken, claim of right to do it, and that the whole matter 
in such a case should be determined by a civil tribunal. 



P. C Colombo. — Held that the fact of there being a counter charge 
against the complainant was no ground for refusing process, though it 
might afiord good reason for hearing both the cases on the same day. 



Sentence 
• altered. 



MRlioious 
injury. 



Refusing 
process. 



October 2. 
Present Cbeast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
P. C. Colombo, 3417. The plaint charged the defendant (a Police 
Serjeant) with having, on the 26th July, 1872^ at Maharagama, know- 
ingly and wilfully and with evil intent, exceeded his powers an a 
Police officer, by entering complainant's house and searching it 
without a search warrant, in breach of clause 70 of Ordinance 16 of 
1863. On the case for the prosecution being closed, the defendant 



Searching 
without a 
warrant. 



22 



POLICE COURTS. 



Dismissal. 



Notoriously 
livulihood. 



Malicious 
inj ary. 



called, as his only witness, the party at whose instance he had made 
the search, and who deposed as follows : " on the 26th July last 
my maid servant ran away with two strings of gold necklace and a 
gold ring belonging to me. I enquired at the Slare Island station. 
I went to defendant and I complained to him. We went to com- 
plainant's house and had it searched. The woman was not there. 
I saw her coniboy there, — the same that she wore at our house. 
Defendant asked me for a warrant. I said I could not get one.'' 
The Magistrate's judgment was to the following effect. — "It is quite 
clear that defendant acted bona fide in this case. I consider he 
acted quite right in proceeding as he did under the circumstances. 
Besides, he was justified under clause 7 of Ordinance 4 of 1841. He 
is accordingly acquitted." J71 appeal, the finding was affirmed. 



P. C. Colombo, 3615. The defendant had been charged with dis- 
orderly conduct, but on the returnable day of the summons, the com- 
plainant being absent, the case was struck off. In appeal, it was urged 
that the complainant had been prevented from attending in conse- 
([uence of the recent floods having interrupted railway communica- 
tion with Colombo, and that this fact had been duly represented by 
petition to the Magistrate. The order, however, was affirmed. 



J. P. Jaffna. 10773. The defendants (five in number) were charg- 
ed, on an affidavit by the Inspector of Police, with being by repute 
of notoriously bad livelihood. The complainant, who had been not 
more than six or seven months at Jaffna, deposed that he knew the 
accused by repute, as " violent men" and " robbers," and that frequent 
complaints had been made against them, although he couhl not say by 
whom. He called only one witness, the District Ceurt Mudaliyar, 
who stated : — " I know 3rd, 4th and 5th accused, the 3rd and 4th 
are by repute bad men. The 3rd accused was concerned in a dis- 
turbance at a comedy once, accnrding to my information. From what 
I heard, the 3rd and 4th accused are men of bad livelihood, who fight 
and disturb thi^ir neighbom-s. I know nothing about the 1st and 2nd 
accused. I heard that 2nd accused is a man of bad character. I 
know nothing about him personally. The 2nd accused was convict- 
ed of assault by Mr. Campbell. I heard that 4th accused was con- 
cerned in robberies. I know nothing against the 5th. I know 
nothing personally. I only talk of repute. " The Justice having 
required security from all the accused for their good behaviour for 

six months, they appealed to the Supreme Court. And per Curiam. 

"Affirmed as to the 3rd and 4th appellants, but set aside as regards 
the 1st, 2nd and 5th appellants, against whom there is not sufficient 
evidence to bring them within the operation of the 233rd section of 
Ordinance No. 11 of 1868." 



P. C. Oalagedara, 18123. A conviction in a case brought under 
the Malicious Injuries Ordinance was set aside, in appeal, and a further 



POLICE COtFRTS. !^3 

hearing ordered in the following terms. "From the evidence of one of the 
vritiiesses of the complainant, it would appear that there is a dispute 
about the boundary. To justify the conviction of the defendants, 
the Magistrates should be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the 
act complained of was malicious, within the meaning of Ordinance 6 
of 1846, section 17. If the fence was cut bona-fide, under an honest 
though it may be a mistaken claim of right, the defendants will not 
be liable. Enquiry should be made regarding the civil case in the 
Court of Requests referred to in the petition of appeal," 



P. C. GaWe, 81464. Held that where a plaint was technically in- plaint, 
correct but the defendant had not been prejudiced in any substantial 
way, the Supreme Court would not interfere with the Magistrate's 
finding of guilty. 



P. C. Panadure, 199'37. The defendant was charged with a breach Division 
of the 3rd section of the 46th clause of Ordinance 10 of 1861, in hav- Officer, 
ing fraudulently, and in the execution of his office as a Division Officer, 
forwarded, on the 4th day of July 1872, to the District Committee, 
the name of the complainant as a defaulter, in respect of the commu- 
tation rate due for 1870, whereas the defendant had received such 
rate from the complainant on the 10th of April, 1871. The evidence 
disclosed that the defendant, who was a Division Officer of one of the 
divisions of Panadure, fiu-nished the Kalritara District Road Com- 
mittee, in June 1870, with his first list of commutation^ defaulters, 
including the name of complainant. Warrants issued through the 
Police Court, and the complainant was obliged to pay the road 
tax to defendant in April 1871 ; but notwithstanding such payment, 
the complainant's name was again inserted in the final list, supplied 
in June 1871, to the Committee, and, consequently, in the final 
warrants, under which complainant was arrested aad had to pay the 
tax a second time to the Deputy Fiscal. The Magistrate (who had 
the Queen's Advocate's authority to try the case) held as follows. 
" By defendant's act of omission, complainant was illegally ai-rested 
and had to make a payment to the Deputy Kscal, in default of which 
he would have been forthwith imprisoned. Whether defendant en- 
tered complainant's name as a defaulter, in the list furnished in June, 
1871, designedly or no, the Court is not in a position to say, but it has 
no difficulty in finding that defendant has, in his capacity of Division 
Officer, been guilty of a crimin,<il neglect of duty removed but few 
degrees from fraud. The defendant is found guilty and sentenced to 
pay a fine of Rs. 25," In appeal, the finding was set aside and a 
judgment of acquittal entered and per Curiam. — "The Police 
Magistrate has veiy properly held that the officer's misconduct did 
not amount to fraud. It follows that the officer could not be legally 
convicted on the charge." 



24 



POLICE COURTS. 



October 9. 
Present CaEAsr, C. J, and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
Witnesses. p. c. Tangalla, 34349. The defendant, who was a Toll-keeper, 

was charged with having levied excessive toU, in breach of clause 15 
of Ordinance No. 14 of 1867. Two witnesses were called for the de- 
fence, but the Magistrate refused to receive their evidence, as they 
" had not been out of Court," and fined the defendant in the sum of 
Es. 50, In appeal, the judgment was set aside and the case remand- 
ed for further hearing ; and per Creasy, C. J.—" The Police Magis- 
trate should have heai-d the evidence of the witness caUed by the 
accused. No order was made for the witness to withdraw, and even 
after such an order — (though the question was not without some 
doubt before) — if the witness remains in Court, it seems to be now 
settled that the judge has no right to reject the witness on this ground, 
however much his wilful disobedience of the order may lessen the 
value of his evidence. See Chadler v. Home, 2 M. & B, 423. Cob- 
bett V Hudson, 22 L. J. («.b.) 13." 



Assault, 



Contempt, 



P. C. Panadure, 20007. A Peace Officer and another were 
charged with assault. It appeared that the complainant was taken 
up on a warrant which had been directed to the Police Serjeant at 
Morottoo tor execution, and that he was hand-cuffed . and beaten- 
The Magistrate, however, found the defendants not guilty. In appeal, 
the judgment was set aside and case remanded for further hearing ; 
and per Curiam, — " The assault being proved, the onus was on the 
defendants to establish that they were justified in arresting the com- 
plainant and that they used no more violence than was necessary. 
The first defendant should show how he came to act, and under whose 
directions he executed the warrant. It will be open to him at the 
further hearing to call the Police Serjeant to whom the warrant was 
addressed. See 9th clause of General Rules for Police Courts," 



October 16. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
P. C. Colombo, SS85. The Magistrate acquitted the defendants, 
who were charged with theft, after hearing only the evidence of the 
complainant, whom he immediately fined Rs 10 for bringing a false case. 
In appeal, the finding as to the contempt was set aside, the defendant 
Hot having been called upon to shew cause and allowed an opportunity 
to defend himself before being convicted. 



October 29. 
, J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
Judgment p, C. Panadure, 19964. The Magistrate, in giving the judgment 

n?istak"e. f^PPealed from, having apparently been under the impression (which 



Present Creasy, C. 
C. Panadure, 19964. 



POLICE COURTS. 25 

the dates on the records showed to be incorrect) that the alleged 
assault, of which the appellant was found guilty, had been committed 
subsequent to the acquittal of the respondent in another Police Court 
case between the same parties, the Supreme Court set aside the sen- 
tence and remanded the case for further hearing and consideration 
and judgment de novo. 



November 5. 
Present Cebasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J, J. 
P. C. Colombo, 3901. The plaint charged the defendant with Nuisance, 
having " on the night of the 14th September, at Colpetty, allowed his f Dogs- J 
dog to bark and howl during the night, and thereby disturb the repose 
of the public." The Magistrate held that he considered defendant 
responsible "for the nuisance and disturbance caused nightly by his 
dog," and fined him in the sum of Rs. 10. In appeal, the judgment 
was set aside and the case remanded for further hearing; and per 
Creasy, C. J. — " This is a charge of public nuisance. The plaint 
alleges that the howling of the defendant's dog disturbed the repose 
of the public, but the proof adduced establishes that the inmates of 
one house only were disturbed, and consequently is insufficient to 
support the conviction. To constitute the offence of a public nuisance, 
or what is the same thing an indioatable nuisance, as distinguishable 
from a private nuisance for which no criminal proceedings lie except 
under special ordinance, it is necessary that the nuisance should be 
such as to annoy the neighbouring community generally, and not 
merely some particular person. So it has been determined that the 
existence of a public nuisance depends upon the number of persons 
annoyed, and is a matter of fact to be judged by the jury. R, v. 
White, 1 Burr. 337. See also R. v. Lloyd, 4 Esp. 200, which was a 
case where a tinman was indicted for the noise made by him in carry- 
ing on his trade, and it appeared that the noise only affected the in- 
habitants of three sets of chambers in Clifford's Inn. Lord Ellen- 
borough ruled that the indictment could not be sustained, as the 
annoyance, if anything, was a private nuisance. The complainant 
had better before the further hearing be allowed to amend his plaint, 
by adding that the defendant kept the dog, and that the animal barked, 
howled, and made great noises, to the great discomfort and annoyance 
of the public in the neighbourhood and the deprivation of their 
natural rest and sleep during the night. It would also be well that 
a count should be added for breach of Ordinance No, 15 of 1S62, 
sec. 1, clause 4, charging the defendant with keeping the dog (setting 
out the barking, &c.) so as to be a nuisance to the person or persons 
(naming him or them) who may be aggrieved. Under this clause, 
proof of a nuisance to one family or person is enough, but it ought to 
be proved to be a grievous nuisance, and to be a permanent or a very 
frequently recurring nuisance. It has often been said by fhe Bench 



26 POLICE COURTS. 

in England, as to complaints of this kind, that people must both bear 
and Ibrbear. A man has ^ right to keep a fierce dog for the protec- 
tion of his property (see Sarch v. Blackburn, M. & M. 505 ;) and in 
a town so infested by biu-glars as Colombo is, it would be very hard 
to deprive him of that prdtection because the neighbours were some- 
times woke up by the house dogs barking or even howling, A man may 
keep dogs as he may keep cats or parrots or other creatures, merely 
because he likes to do so, and he is not to be punished for it, merely 
because an occasional growl, squeaj or yell breaks in upon the tran- 
quillity of the district. But if he gratifies his fancies so as to cause 
serious and permanent annoyance to his neighbours' substantial com- 
forts, and not merely to their whims and tastes, the law can and will 
interfere to stop him. If it can be proved that he keeps the objectionable 
animal for the express pm-pose of vexing his neisthbour, proof of even 
moderate actual annoyance would be enough. No arbitrary rule can 
be laid down. A precedent may be found in Chitty's forms of criminal 
proceedings, vol. 3, p. 647, under which parties have been indicted for 
keeping dogs to their neighbour's annoyance. On the other hand, there 
is the case of Street v Tugwell, Selwyn's N. P., 1 070, where in an action 
on the case against the defendant, for keeping dogs so near plaintifi's 
dwelling house that he was disturbed in the enjoyment thereof, it 
appeared in evidence that defendant kept six or seven pointers so 
near plaintiff's dwelling house that his family were prevented from 
sleeping during the night, and were very much disturbed in the day 
time. No evidence was given on the part of the defendant, notwith- 
standing which the jury found for the defendant. On a. motion for 
a new trial, Lord Kenyon, C. J. said, " I know it is very disagreeable 
' to have such neighbours, but we cannot grant a new trial. Cases 
certainly of this nature have been made the subject of investigation 
in Courts of .Justice, &c., &o. If the defendant continues the nuisance, 
and yon think it advisable, you may bring a new action. Rule refused." 
It is remarked in Roscoe, N. P., page 635, with respect to this ruling, 
that the Court would no doubt have upheld a verdict the other wav, 
if the Jury had found it to be a nuisance. Every case must b^ 
considered with reference to its own oircumstances, and by the lisfht of 
common sense and ofcommon fairness in respect of the interests of both 
parties. Accordingly, it will be for the Magistrate, havinj regard to 
the points above indicated, to determine whether the defendant is or 
is not liable to conviction." 



Illegnl P. C. Pam«t7fa, 14,076. The defendant, who had been complainant's 

sentence. servant and who had given due notice to quit, was charged with having 
stolen certain articles on the day he left his master's house. 
The Magistrate found him guilty and delivered the following judgment : 
"defendant is sentenced to three months' imprisonment at hard labor 
and to a fine of £4 ; in default of payment to go to prison for ten ad- 
ditional weeks at hard labor. The property must be returned to com- 



POLICE COURTS. 



27 



plainant. The wages due to accused will be forfeited." In appeal, 
so much of the judgment as directed that, in default of payment of the 
fine, the defendant should be imprisoned for ten weeks, and that he 
should forfeit the wages due to him, was set aside; and per Curiam. — 
"If the fine be not paid, the Court should proceed in the manner 
directed by the Ordinance No. 6 of 1855, It must betaken that the 
fine ought to have been paid forthwith, no time being specified when 
the sentence was passed. The accused, not having been prosecuted 
fora breach of the 1 1th clause ofOrdinance No. 11 of 1865, could not 
be punished thereunder.'' 



November 12. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
P. C. Galle, 82267. The defendants «vho were Policemen, were 
charged with abuse of power, under the 70th clause of Ordiaance 16 
of 1865. The Magistrate having convicted them, awarded a sentence 
which was undoubtedly within his jurisdiction. In appeal, it was 
urged that the Magistrate had no right, in view of the requirements 
of the 98th clause, to try the case without a certificate fi:om the Queen's 
Advocate, as the penalty prescribed for the ofience included a fine 
not exceeding three months' pay, which might be £5 or over £50. 
Per Curiam. — "Affirmed, but it would be more proper in such cases 
to take evidence as to the amount of wages.'' 



Police 
Ordinaace. 



P. C. Kegalla, 34940. The defendants were charged with having 
wilfully, unlawfully and maliciously cut down and rooted up 45 plan- 
tain trees, 15 cocoanut plants and about 300 cofiee plants, and des- 
troyed the fence, on complainant's land. The Magistrate, after hear- 
ing evidence on both sjdes, held as follows. " It is clear that the 
dispute is about a piece of ground which had not been cultivated for 
years, and which is situate between the lands of complainant and first 
defendant's wife. The complainant planted it, and defendants rooted 
up the trees he had planted. This they had no right to do. The 
evidence on both sides shews the complainant did plant the land. 
The last witness alone said there was no planting, no quarrel ; and I 
do not believe him in that or any other portion of his evidence. I 
don't believe there was anything like the number of trees that com- 
plainant would have us believe. First and second defendants are 
fined ten rupees each, and third defendant, a young boy, five rupees." 
In appeal, the judgment was set aside in the ibilowing terms. " It is 
clear that the defendants acted under a bona-fide claim of i-ight, and 
where that is the case the Malicious Injuries Ordinance does not 
apply, even though the claim may turn out to be a mistaken one.'' 



Malicious 
injury. 



P. C. Kalutara, 48013. The charge was that the defendants had, -p. ,, 
on the 2nd of September, resisted and obstructed the complainant Ordinance. 



28 



POLICE COURTS. 



(a Fiscal's officer,) while he was placinc; a third party in possession of 
a certain land under an order of the District Conrt of Kalutara. The 
Magistrate held as follows : "The 64th clause of the Ordinance, under 
which these defendants are charged, requires that if, in the execution 
of a decree for laud, the Fiscal' officer sliall be resisted by the defend- 
ant, the person in whose favor such decree was made, or the Fiscal, 
may apply to the Court to enquire into the matter ; that thereupon 
the Court shall fix a day for investigating the complaint, and shall 
summon the party against whom the complaint is made to answer the 
same. In this case no application was made to the Court, and there- 
fore the preliminary enquiry contemplated by the Ordinance was not 
made. I think, therefore, that the present proceedings are irregular, 
and that the defendants should be acquitted. They are charged 
under a penal clause, and it must be strictly construed. The de- 
fendants are acquitted and discharged." In appeal, the judgment 
was affirmed ; and per Curiam. — " The appellant wished the Police 
Magistrate to convict the defendants, imder the 64th clause of the 
Fiscal's Ordinance, 1867, and the Police Magistrate very properly 
held that he had no power to do so. If there had been any actual 
violence or assault by the defendants, the Supreme Court might have " 
sanctioned a further hearing on an amended plaint, but the appellant's 
own evidence shews that nothing of the kind occurred." 



Riotous and 
forcible 

entry. 



November 19. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J.J. 
J. P. Panadure, 5218. The defendant (with several others) had 
been charged with having riotously and forcibly entered a certain 
land which he claimed equally with the complainant, and with having 
rooted up several cocoanut plants therein. The Justice, under the 
direction of the Queen's Advocate, discharged all the accused, save 
the appellant who was ordered to find security to keep the peace for 
thr-ee months. In appeal, the order was affirmed ; and per Curiam. — 
" The affidavit of the complainant gave the Justice of the Peace ju- 
risdiction under the 221st section of Ordinance 11 of 1868. The 
violence on the part of the appellant, which has been proved, fully 
justified the order." 



Forcible entry. P. C. Galagedara, 18243 A conviction imder the Proclamation ' 
of 5th August, 1819, was affirmed, in appeal, in the following terms : 
" There is evidence enough to establish that violence was threatened 
and that there was a tumult and a breach of the peace. The ques- 
tion of title is immaterial. The defendants are punished not for 
having entered land to which they had no title, but for having entered 
it forcibly and in breach of the peace." 



Malicious F. C. Colombo, 4447 . The plaint stated " that the defendant did 

injury. on the 27th November, at Modera, wilfully and maliciously break and 

injure a carriage, in breach of the 18th clause of Ordinance No. 6 of 



POLICE COURTS, 29 

1846." The carriage appeared to have been left on the public road, 
and the defendant was charged with having removed some stones 
which supported it on a declivity, whereby it rolled into a cabook pit 
and was much damaged. The Magistrate stopped the case for the 
prosecution, after hearing the evidence of only one amongst several 
witnesses who were in attendance, and re/erred the complainant to a 
civil action. In appeal, the order was affirmed, the Chief Justice 
remarking that it was competent for the defendant to remove an ob- 
struction on a public thoroughfare, such as the carriage undoubtedly 
was, and that it would be an improper straining of the Ordinance to 
bring him within its operation. 



P. C Colombo, . Held that no case could be reinstituted in Eeinstituting 

the Police Court without the special leave of the Magistrate. See a cse. 
Ordinance 18 of 1871, section 5. 



November20. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewaet, J. J. 
P. C. Oalle, 83088. The plaint alleged " that the defendants did, Negligently 
on the 12th November, outside the Main-gate, wilfully and negligently, leading 
lead a certain wheeled carriage, to wit a hand-cart, on the wrong side ^ '^ ' 
ofthe road, in breach ofthe 85th clause of Ordinance 16 of 1865. 
The defendants were found guilty and sentenced each to pay a fine 
of fifty cents. In appeal, the judgment was aflii-med ; and per 
CuKiAM : — " We had at first some doubt whether this case comes within 
the 85th section of Ordinance No. 16 of 1865, but on consideration we 
are all of opinion that the words of the Ordinance are sufficient to 
embrace it, and it certainly is a case of mischievous nuisance such as 
the Ordinance was intended to repress." 

November 26. 
Present Creasy, C.J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
P. C. Panadnre,^0\09. The defendants were charged with dis- Disorderly 
orderly conduct and with indecent exposui-e of their person, in breach conduct, 
of the 4th clause of Ordinance 4 of 1841. The charge was 
substantially proved, but the Magistrate held that the ends of justice 
would be satisfied with the defendants being bound over to keep the 
pe^e for three months, with collateral and personal security for 
Rs. 300 each. In appeal, the judgment was affirmed. 



P. C Safnapura, 13289. The defendant, who was an overseer Labor Ordi- 
in the Public Works department, was charged with having wilfully nanoe. 
and knowingly taken into his employ four coolies, who had absented 
themselves without leave from the service of the complainant, to 
whom they had bound themselves as monthly coolies, in breach ofthe 
19th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865. The accused, under warn- 



30 POLICK CODRTS. 

ing, stated— "The coolies first went and told the Arachchy ;that they 
were leaving complainant; they also told the pQliceman at Balangodde, 
and then came to Court and said so. After that I gave them employ- 
ment." The names of the coolies appeared to have been entered in 
a check roll signed by Mr. Murray, the superintending officer ; and it 
was urged by defendant's proctor that the complainant, who was 
himself a monthly servant, could not be regarded as their employer. 
The Magistrate held as follows: "Mr. Murray is not present to prove 
that the coolies were employed by him. I could wait for his evidence 
before deciding, but that I think the accused acted bona fide in the 
matter, and he is accordingly discharged." In appeal, the judgment 
was affirmed. 

Maintenance. p, C. Batticaloa, SSSi. This was a charge against defendant for not 
maintaining his illegitimate children, in breach of clause 3 of Ordinance 
4 of 1 «4 1 . The Magistrate, after hearing evidence on both sides, held 

the defendant guilty and fined him Rs. lO, but stated in his judo-ment 

" the defendant's case has completely broken down, but even were it not 
so, the (Jourt was prepared to have convicted him." In appeal, it was 
contended that the Magistrate had evidently prejudged the case and 
that, therefore, the defendant was entitled to a new hearing. Sed per 
Curiam. —Affirmed. 



December 3. 
Present Ceeasy, C. J. and Temple and Stewart, J. J. 
Maintenance. ^- ^'- GaWe, 81974. This was a charge against defendant for not 
maiutaiuing his illegitimate child. The complainant was a, Moorish 
woman, whose husband was alive but from whorh, it was stated 
by her father, she had beun separated five years ago " in pres- 
ence of a Lebbe." The Lebbe was not called, nor was there any 
document recording the alleged separation produced. The Magis- 
trate, however, held as follows . " There is proof of the cancellation 
' of the marriage with Sego (the husband) and separation from him 

five years ago. Now the vei-y appearance of the child is evidence 
enough that the child could not ha\'e been born during cohabitation 
the child being biit a few weeks old. The defendant is found guilty 
and fined Ks. 6, 4 to complainant." In appeal, the judn-meut was 
affirmed. 



Nuisance. P- C. Pmiadure, 20-207. The charge was laid in the foIlowin>r 

plaint : " that the defendant did, on the 20th October, collect filth 
and dirt into a heap, opposite to his boutique on the drain of the high 
road at Pattia, and burn them, without removing the same as requir- 
ed by Ordinance, to the grtat nuisance of the complainant who oc- 



POI.TCE COURTS. 

cupies- the adjoining boutique, in breach of the 94th clause of Ordi- 
nance 16 of 1865." The Magistrate found the defendant guilty and 
fined him Bb. 2. In appeal, the judgment was set aside ; and ppr 
Coriam. — " The burning of rubbish is not an offence under the 94th 
clause of Ordinance l6 ot 1865." 



31 



P. C. Nuwara Eliya, 861'2. The defendants were charged with 
having cut 115 trees from a certain Crown forest at Sita Eliya, with- 
out a proper license, in breach of clause 5of Ordinance 24 of 1848. 
The Magistrate gave judgment as follows : " This case is dismissed. 
There is nothing to shew that the defendants had anything to do 
with" the felling of the timber. Let the timber be seized and sold." 
The defendants appealed to be allowed to remove the timber. Per 
Curiam. — " Appeal dismissed. The order in question appears to be 
surplusage, but as the defendants have been acquitted, on the sole 
ground that they had nothing to do with the timber, they cannot be 
prejudiced by such order." 



Timber 
Ordinance. 



P, C. Gampola, 2.3839. The defendants were charged with having 
assaulted, and with ' having incited others to assault, complainant. 
The 2nd defendant having gone to survey a land for the 1st, was op- 
posed by complainant and his wife. An angry altercation ensued; 
and the complainant was very severely beaten and would probably 
have been further assaulted but for the coach, with the Magistrate as 
a passenger, passing the place at the time. The Magistrate having 
found the 1st and 2nd defendants guilty — the others being acquitted — 
proceeded to pass sentence as follows . " And whereas what I per- 
sonally saw is not evidence, and cannot criminate defendants, but 
legally may and equitably should influence me in awarding penalty or 
sentence, I place on record, as further explaining cause of severe pen- 
alty, that I found 1st defendant white and trembling with passion, 
apparently directing a number of coolies who were dragging from a 
house on to the road, with brutal violence, the complainant, who was 
much injured and tied with rough cords which I removed from his 
legs and either his neck or shoulders. » * . gnd defend- 
ant was a little way off, some five yards or so, and, when I saw him, 
•watching the approach of the coach but making no effort to intercede. 
The 1 st and 2nd defendants are severally sentenced to. ten days' im- 
pi'isonment." In appeal, it was urged that when the defendants had 
attended the Police Court on the 19th of November on a J. P. sum- 
mons, a P. C. plaint for assault had been entered and the case tried 
on the same day without any further process ; that they were refused a 
postponement, although granted the indulgence of summoning their 
witnesses for the following day when evidence for the defence was 
received ; that these were irregularities which could not but have 



Assault. 



32 POLICE COtJKTS. 

prejudiced the defence ; and that the Magistrate was not justified in im- 
porting into the case his own evidence. The Supreme Court, however, 
affirmed the Magistrate's finding and sentence m the following terms : 
" The defendants had full opportunity to prepare their defence. The 
Magistrate decided the issue of guilty or not guilty on strictly legal 
evidence. He had a right, when apportioning the punishment, to 
avail himself of his own personal knowledge." 

December 10. 
Present Crbast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
Gambling. P. C. Colombo, 5109, The defendants were charged with having 

" gambled, by betting at a cock-pit in a public place, in breach of 
Ordinance 4 of 1841, clause 4th." The Magistrate found them guilty, 
and sentenced the 1st, 3rd and 4th to pay a fine ot Rs. 10 each, and 
the 2nd to be imprisoned at hard labor for one month. To the judg- 
ment, however, was appended the following order, — "the game cocks 
produced to be forfeited and sold." In appeal, it was urged that In- 
spector Andree's evidence, as to the character of the 2nd accused, in 
connection with previous cases of gambling, had been improperly re- 
ceived before conviction, and that the forfeiture of the cocks was 
illegal. Per CuKiAM. — "Affirmed. The Supreme Court has to point 
out that enquiry as to the bad character of the accused, or whether he 
is an old offender, should not be made until judgment of guilty has 
been pronounced. The order for the forfeiture and sale of the game 
cooks was beyond the power of the Magistrate, and must be regarded 
as surplusage, no such power being given by the Ordinance." 

December 17. 
Present Ceeast, C. J. and Stewaet, J. 
Judgment of P. C. Oalle, 82865. Where, under a charge for assault, the com- 
" not guilty." plainant had adduced sufficient evidence, if believed, to prove the 
offence, but the Magistrate's judgment on the record was merely " not 
guilty," the Supreme Court set aside the finding and remanded the 
case for further hearing ; and per Creasy, C. J. — " As the record 
now stands, there is evidence of an assault, and there is no statement 
by the Police Magistrate that he disbelieves that evidence. No 
justification is at present proved." 



Costs. P- C. Matara, 71 124. The defendant was charged with having unlaw- 

fully received a quantity of kitul fibre, knowing the same to have been 
stolen. After hearing complainant's evidence, the Magistrate gave 
judgment as follows : " Defendant is acquitted with costs." In 
appeal, per Stewart, .T. — " Affirmed, save as to costs, which part of 
the judgment is set aside. The complainant may have been mistaken 
in supposing the fibre in question to be his, but there is nothing to 
shew that he did not bona fide believe that it belonged to him." 



POLICE COURTS. 



33 



p. C. Panadure, 20182. The defendant was charged with having Eye-witnesses, 
maliciously thrown stones into complainant's house and broken his 
furniture, in breach of the 19th clause of Ordinance 6 of 1846. An 
admission made by him to an Aratchy was duly deposed to by that 
officer at the trial, but the Magistrate declined to be bound by it in 
the absence of the evidence of certain alleged eye witnesses whom the 
complainant failed to call. In appeal, the judgment was set aside and 
case sent back for furth<^r hearing and consideration ; and per Creasy, 
C. J. — " A the record stands, the defendant's admission was legal 
evidence ; but, as it would be very more satisfactory to hear the evi- 
dence of the alleged eye-witnesses, the case is sent back for further 
hearing. It will be the duty of the complainant to call them." 



P. C. Panwilla, 14151. This was a charge against certain can- Opportunity 
ganies and coolies, for refusing to work and for behaving insolently for defence, 
to their employer, in breach of the 11th clause of Ordinance II of 
1865. The defendants were convicted, but all of them, save the 
present two appellants, elected to go back to their estate after sentence, 
and were allowed to do so ; the Magistrate taking upon himself to 
cancel his own judgment so far as it affected them. In appeal, it 
was urged (independently of the merits of the case whii'h were not 
gone into by 'counsel,) that the appellants having; been taken up on a , 

warrant were brought into Court and tried on the same day, although 
a postponement had been specially applied for, to secure the at- 
tendance of a witness named, but had been refused ; and that, in ^dew 
of the heavy punishment which had been awarded, and the want of 
facilities generally for immigrants who- were arrested on Coffee estates 
to secure prompt legal advice, the equities of the case demanded that 
an opportunity should be given to the defendants to call evidence. 
Per CuMAM. — " These appellants had a professional adviser acting for 
them ; and strictly speaking when he claimed a postponement (which 
ought to have been claimed when the case was first railed on,) he ought 
to have satisfied the Police Magistrate, by affidavit or other sufficient 
means, that there were witnesses in existence who could prove facts 
material to the defence in the present case, and that no reasonable 
means of securing the attendance of these witnesses in the first in- 
stance had been neglected. But we are always anxious to guard 
against the possibility of any man being convicted of a criminal offence 
without having had full means of making and proving his defence, if 
such rheans exist. We, therefore, send the case back for further 
hearingand consideration, so far as regards these appellants. And in 
so doing, we draw the Police Magistrate's attention to clause 4 of 
Ordinance 18 of 1871, which will authorize him, if he ultimately con- 
vict, to make the defendants pay the expenses of the complainant and 
the coinplainant's witnesses." 



34 



POLICE COURTS. 



Municipal 
Magistrutes. 



Security to 
keep the 
peace. 



B. M. Kandy, 5873. The defendant in this case, having been 
found guilty of a breach of clause 8, chapter 1 9 of the Bye-laws of the 
Municipal Council of Kandy, appealed on the ground that only two 
Magistrates had presided at the hearing of the case, and that, there- 
fore, the judgment was void in view of the requirements of section 32 
ot Ordinance 17 of 1865. Per Curiam. — "Quashed. The conviction 
shews that only two councillors were present at the hearing. By the 
32nd section of the Ordinance No. 17 of 1865, three or more council- 
lor* are necessary to form a Bench of Magistrates."* 



P. C Colombo, 1649. The complainant having sworn an affidavit 
charging the defendants with constantly abusing and annoying him 
and threatening to do him bodily harm, the Magistrate, without hear- 
ing any evidence, made the following order : " both parties are bound 
over to keep the peace for six months in Rs. 100 each." In appeal, 
by the complainant, so much of the judgment as required him to give 
security was set aside ; and per Curiam.—" The case discloses nothing 
to require or justify such an order. So much of the order as binds 
over the other parties to keep the peace is affirmed," 



Crambling. 



Autre foia 
acqait. 



P. c. 



December 23. 
Present Stewabt, J. 
Panadure, 20085. The defendants were charged with gam- 
bling on a land called Galawattemoderawatte. In the course of the 
evidence, it transpired that the gambling had taken place in a ditch 
on the sea beach ; and the Magistrate thereupon held that the of- 
fence came within the meaning of clause 4 of Ordinance 4 of 1841. 
In appeal, however, the judgment was set aside ; and per Stewart, 
J.—" The plaint is defective, in that it is not alleged that the de- 
fendants were gaming in any street or other open or public place. 
According to the evidence, the gaming took place in a ditch ; but 
whether it was an open one, and in an open or public place, it doe« 
not clearly appear." 



P. C. Kegalla, 35127. The defendants, having been convicted of 
assault, appealed chiefly on the following grounds : (3) « the case is 
one which should properly come under the Village Communities Or- 
dinance. Respondent cut down an old boundary dam between his 
fi eld and that of the 1 st appellant and brought the present case 

• In B M. Colombo, 4991, the defendant, who had pleaded euiltv 
underacharge of Naisance, andbeen fined £2. appealed on the Iround 
that the penalty had been imposed by a Bench consistino- of on! v two 
Magistrates, and that the signature of the third Councillor appearine on 
the record had been obtained " long afterwards." This statement was 
duly supported by affidavit, but the Supreme Court offirmerf the iuds- 
ment.-Vide Civil Minutes, 20th July, 1869. »" lae juag 



POLICE COURTS. 

against appellants ; (4) under the directions of the Assistant Go- 
remment Agent a " Gansabahawe,'' presided over by the Ratta- 
mahatmeya, was held touching the matter, and a verdict returned in 
favor of the appellants ; (5) appellants humbly prayed the Court 
below for a reference to the report in which the verdict is embodied, 
but the prayer was refused." The petition to the Magistrate, referred 
to in paragraph 5, was of record, with the mere endorsement by him 
— " file in case." Per Stewart, J. — " Affirmed. There is nothing 
to shew that the charge was enquired into and adjudicated ufJfn 
by the Gansabahawe." 



p. C. Urugalla, 4147. The plaint was as follows : " that the d?- Cruelty to 
fendants did, on or about the 12th day of November, cruelly iU-treat, ammals. 
abuse or torture, oi cause or procure to be cruelly ill-treated, abused 
or tortured, a bullock belonging to him, in breach of 1st clause of 
Ordinance 7 of 1 862." On the evidence for the prosecution being 
closed, the defendant stated in defence — " the bullock is mine. The 
medical men gave orders that it should be branded, as it was sick. I 
can prove it is usual for animals to be so branded. Its sickness was 
cold fits.'' The Magistrate held as follows : " This animal was pro- 
duced before the Court at the time, and the poor brute was in a 
horrible state from branding. Flourishes, rings and ornamentations 
of every kind were described all over its body, and the opinion of 
the Court is that the branding was excessive and unnecessarily severe 
in the meaning of the Ordinance. If the defendant is such a pig- 
headed idiot as to imagine that by treating a creature in such a way 
he can do its health good, he must be taught better sense by the 
punishment of a fine. Defendant is fined Ks. 10 and warned." In 
appeal, it was urged that defendant should be allowed an opportu- 
nity (which apparently had been denied him at the trial) to prove 
that he had acted bona fide and under medical advice as alleged. 
The judgment, however, was affirmed, Stewart, J. remarking that 
he would send the case back for further hearing, to enable the de- 
fendant to call his witnesses, if not that he was of opinion, in view of 
the nature of the branding deposed to, that the question of intention 
could not affect the verdict. 



i:ndex. 



APPEAL. Paoe 

A Magistrate's finding on facts is irreversible ... . ... ... 1, 9 

Where a plaint is so defective that it cannot be amended, consistently 
with the facts, so as to bring the charge within tlie Ordinance quoted, 
the Supreme Court, will set aside a conviction , . . . 4 

A sentence! if authorized by law, will not be interfered with by the 

Supreme Court ... .. ... ... ... 9 

There is no appeal against a Magistrate's order allowing a postpone- 
ment ... ... ... ... ... 10 

Wbere the substantial rights of either party have not been affected 
by any irregularities disclosed on the record, the Magistrate's finding 
will be affirmed ... * ... ... ... ... 10,23 

Where the parties are prematurely referred to a civil action, without 
sufficient evidence on the record to justify the order, the Supreme 
Court will direct a new trial ... ' ... ... ... 18 

The Supreme Court will alter a sentence from fine to imprisonment, 

if the Ordinance allows no discretion as to the punishment ... 19, 21 

Where a judgment had been delivered vmder a mistake as to dates, a 

further hearing was allowed ... ... ... ... 24 

A further hearing, applied for on the ground that the Magistrate had 

evidently prejudged the case, refused ... ... ... 30 

Appeal dismissed ... ... ... .. ... 31 

A new hearing ordered on a judgment of " not guilty " ... ... 32 

A complainant may be compelled, in appeal, to call his alleged eye- 
witnesses, even although there be sufficient legal evidence on the 
record to support the charge ... ... ... ... 33 

The Supreme Court is most anxious that every opportunity should be 
given to an accused to prove his defence ; and where a postponement 
in a cooly-case had been applied for, though not strictly in due form, 
but refused, a further hearing was granted ... ... ... 33 

ARRACK ORDINANCE.— CiVo. 10 0/1844.^ 

A person may " dispose of " arrack without selling it ... ... 8 

In •prosecutions under the 14th and 26th clauses, the offence being sin- 
gle the penalty should accordingly be single ... ... 13 

ASSAULT. 

An assault being proved against a person who enforces a warrant which 
is not directed to him for execution, the onus is on him to justify the 
arrest and to show that no more violence was used than was necessary 24 

In awarding punishment after a legal conviction, the Magistrate may 

avail himself of his own pex-sonal knowledge ... ... 31 

AUTRE FOIS ACQUIT. 

In a prosecution for maintenance, the defendant cannot plead a former 

acquittal . . ... ... ... ... 10 

The plea is not available where the previous proceedings have been 

quashed ,.. ... ... ... ... ... 18 

The mere plea, without proof, ot a previous acquittal before a Gansa- 

bahawe is insufficient ... ... „. 34 



'VI INDEX. 

BENCH OF MAGISTRATES.— (Orrfmance 17 o/ 1865) Page. 

Piocc'edinss had before only two Municipal Magistrates quashed ... 34 

CARRIAGE ORDINANCE.- (JVo. 7 0/ 1848.) 

A conviction under clause 11, without any proof that the carriage in 

question wab a hired one, quashed ... ... ... 19 

CONTEMPT. 

The fact of a foolish and ignorant man sending a Magistrate a letter, 

in the nature of a notice of action, cannot be treated as a contempt... 14 

Petition-drawers preparing false documents for presentation to the 

Supreme Court are liable to be punished for contempt... ... 15 

A pei'son cannot be coiivirted of contempt without being called upon, 

and allowed an opportunity, to shew cause... ... ... 24 

COSTS. 

A complainant should ijot be cast in costs if he prosecutes bona fide... 32 
CRUELTY TO AmMAh&.~{Ordinance 7 of 1862.) 

Evidence as to intention is immnterial for the defence ... ... 35 

CUST01\rS DVT \'ES.— {.Ordinance 17 of 1869.) 

Where goods are seized at the Customs, the onus is on' the defendant 

to prove payment of duty ... ... ... 19 

DISORDERLY CONDUCT.- (Orrfmance 4 o/184I.) 

A Magistrate may simply bind over parties charged with disorderly 
conduct .. ... ... ... ... ... 29 

EVIDENCE. 

Proof of what the parties to a case said against their respective interests 

is evidence against them ... ... . . , ... 6 

When said in open Court and judicially recorded, it is not necessary to 

call witnesses to prove that they made the statement ... 6 

Before secondary evidence of a license can be admissible, it should be 
proved that the holder thereof was duly noticed to produce the 
original .. ... ... ... ... . 8 

A wife is not a legal witness against her husband in cases of maintenance 9 

The mere admission of illegal evidence will not vitiate a judgment, pro- 
vided there be sufficient legal pi-oof to support it ... ... 9 

An admission by defendant to a third party is admissible, if made freely 

and voluntarily ... .. ... ... ... 12 

Husbands and wives may be witnesses against each other in prosecutions 

for bodily injury inflicted by one upon the other ... ... 13 

Unregistered sannases are admissible in criminal proceedings ... 16 

Witnesses who remain in Court, after being ordered to withdraw, are 

not incompetent to give evide^ice ... ... .. 24 

Evidence as to the bad character of the accused should not be received 

until after conviction ... . ... ... 32 

FALSE INFORMATION,— COrrfmawce 11 oj \868.J 

Where no particular person has been accused, a charge for false infor- 
mation, under clause 166, will not lie ... ... ... 1 

Giving false evidence as a witness is not punishable under clause 166, 

but giving false information whereon to found a charge is ... 15 

FISCALS' ORDINANCE.— CiVo. 4 o/ 1867. J 

A clandestine removal of goods seized by the Fiscal does not amount 
to " making or inciting resistance or obstruction," under the 23rd 
clause ... ... ... ... 3 

A charge under the 23rd clause cannot be entertained without a certi- 
ficate from the Queen's Advocate ... ... 21 



INDBX. 



Page. 



A Magistrate has no power to convict a defendant, under the 64th 
clause, for resisting a Piscal's officer in the execution of a decree tor 
land ... ... ... ... ... ... 27 

FORCIBLE Vj^TRY.— (Proclamation of 5th August, 1819.) 

A certificate from the Queen's Advocate is not required to enable Police 

Courts to try charges for forcible entry ... ... ... 3 

The question of title is immaterial ... ... ... 28 

QKMEhmGi.— (Ordinance 4 of 1841. J 

The unsupported evidence of a witness, who said " I knew that shed was 
used for gambling and I have previously complained about it to the 
Police," considered sufficient to warrant a conviction ... ... 2 

An open lane is not such a place as is contemplated in section 6, clause 

4 of the Vagrant Ordinance ... ... ... .. 5 

In the absence of evidence as to the kind and natiu-e of the gambling 

complamed of, the Supreme Court directed a further hearing ... 15 

Gambling in a private garden is no ofience ... ... ... 20 

A Magistrate cannot order the forfeiture and sale of game cooks ... 32 
Gambling in a " ditch " is not punishable, in the absence of evidence to 
show whether such ditch was an open one and in an open or public 
place ... ... ... ... ... 34 

HUSBAND AND WIFE. 

In an action for maintenance by the wife, the husband may prove in 

defence that she left him and is living in adultery ... ... 2 

If a husband beat his wife and bring an adulteress under his roof, it is 

legally equivalent to an act of desertion ... . .. 9 

A wife is not a legal witness against her husband in cases of main- 
tenance ... ... ... ... .. .. 9 

A wife must be presumed to have acted under the influence and 

coercion of her husband, unless the contrary be clearly shewn ... 12 

Husbands and wives may be witnesses against each other in prosecu- 
tions for bodily injury inflicted by one upon the other ... ... 13 

Where a wife seeks to justify her having left her husband's house on the 
ground of having been ill-treated, she should adduce evidence as to 
the real extent and nature of the ill-usage ... ... ... 5 

A husband though divorced from his wife is bound to maintain his 

children by her ... ... ... . . ... 17 

Where a wife pleads " inability " to live with her husband, she should 
satisfactorily prove it before she can secure maintenance ... 19 

JURISDICTION. 

Where a " severe wound with a knife " is inflicted, the case ought to 
be tried by the District Court ... ... 2 

Cases of assault where the knife is used but no dangerous wound inflict- 
ed may be properly sent to the District Court, but are beyond the 
jurisdiction of a Police Court .. ... ... ... 11 

A Magistrate cannot demand bail for good beha^aour ... ... 13 

Where a complainant changes her place of residence with the avowed 
object of carrying her case from one Court to another, the Supreme 
Court will discom-age the proceeding as vexatious ... ... 14 

The plea of jurisdiction, on account of the agjiravated character of an 
assault, should be taken in the Police Court and before the Magis- 
trate has found a verdict ... ... ... ... 16 

A Police Court has no power to try a charge of resistance under the 

64th clause of the Fisoals' Ordinance ... ... ,,. 27 



LABOR ORDINANCE.— fiVo. U 0/ 1865 J Tage. 

A Diver is not a servant ... ... ... _ • ■ ■ 1 

A prosecution for breacli of contract in neglecting to attend in com- 
mencing work can be maintained, tinder the 11th clause, against 
persons who by occupation are servants within the meaning of the 
law, although such persons may not have alreaily become actually 
working servants of the complainant ... ... . ■■■ ^ 

Where weeding contracts form part of the consideration for which a 
Cangany binds himself to work, and the weeding is to go on for more 
than a month, the engagement should be in writing ... ... 8, 9 

A Dhoby employed to wash for a family is a servant ... ... 9 

A party who was to be rewarded for bis labor by a share in the pro- 
ceeds of a fishery, was held not liable to be prosecuted as a servant... 15 

Where in a prosecution for crimping, the offence disclosed on the evi- 
dence was that of forcible abduction and rape, the Ordinance was 
held not to apply ... ... ... ... ... 15 

A servant who is convicted under a charge of theft cannot be mulcted 

in his wages ... ... ... ... ... 27 

A bona fide employer of coolies who are boimd to another cannot be 

convicted under the 19th clause... ... ... .. 29 

LICENSEkS. 

Where a party using an insufficient license to slaughter cattle acts 
bona fide, he is not liable to be convicted ... ... ... 1 

A licensed " armourer " need not obtain a separate license to possess 

fire-arms ... ... ... . ... 2 

MAINTENANCE.— (OrcJmance 4 of 1841.) 

In an action by the wife, the husband may prove in defence that she 

left him and is living in adultery .. ... ... ... 2 

Legal efieot of statement by defendant that he has transferred property 

for the support of his child ... ... ... ... 2 

Where a wife seeks to justify her having left her husband's house on 

the ground of having been ill-treated, she should adduce evidence as 

to the real extent and nature of the ill-usage . ... 5 

A parent is liable to support his child until it attains majority ... 7 

What circumstances should be considered in determining whether a 

child is able to support itself or requires the support of others ... 7 

If a husband beat his wife and bring an adulteress under his roof, it is 

legally equivalent to an act of desertion ... ... ... 9 

A Magistrate has no power to decree future alimony ... ... 9 

Desertion is a continuing offence, and the defendant cannot plead a 

former acquittal ... ... ... ... ... 10 

A husband thouj>h divorced from his wife is bound to maintain his 

children by her ... ... ... ... ... 17 

Where a wife pleads " inability" to live with her husband, she should 

satisfactorily prove it before she can secure maintenance ... 19 

Complainant may prove that a sum offered by defendant i.s insuflScient 

and that he is liable to pay more ... ... 20 

Maintenance awarded to a married woman against the father ot her 

illegitimate child ... ... ... .__ ___ 30 

MALICIOUS INJURY.— (;Or*?iarece 6 of 1846.) 

The bare assertion of title is an insufiicient defence .. ... 10 

Where the act complained of is done under a bona-fide though mistaken 

claim of right, the defendant cannot be convicted .. ...oj 22 27 

Where the complainant contributes to the injury by his own unlawfiil 

act, he has no right to prosecute.. ... .., _ .ig 



INDEX. IX 

NUISANCE.— COrAnoMce 15 0/ 1862.) Page. 

Polluting the water of the Colombo Fort Canal, so as to create a public 

nuisance, is an offence at common law, although not indictable under 

the Ordinance ... ... ... ... ... 9 17 

In prosecutions for nuisances, it is no defence to shew that the accused 

had no intention to act unlawfully ... ... ... 17 

Nuisance caused by the storage of salt fish ... ... ... 18 

The Dog case ... ... ... ... ... 25 

The burning of rubbish is not an offence under the 94th clause of the 

Police Ordinance ... ... ... ... ... 30 

POLICE ORDINANCE.— (No 16 of 1865.) 

A licensed wine seller cannot be convicted, under the 88th clause, of 

trading on Sundays to the disturbance of a christian congregation, if 

there be no evidence that he or any one acting under his orders was 

present at the shop in question . ... ... ... 4 

A Police officer acting bona fide is justified in searching a house without 

a warrant ... ... ... ... ... 21 

Police officers may be tried under the 70th clause, for illegally exceeding 

their powers, without a certificate from the Queen's Advocate ... 27 
Negligently leading a hand-cart on the road is an offence under the 

85th clause ... ... ... 29 

The burning of rubbish on the road-side is not indictable under the 

94th clause .. ... ... ... ... 30 

PRACTICE. 

It is irregular to take a plea of guilty subject to the opinion of the 

Supreme Court ... ... ... ... 2 

No Magistrate has a right to record a plea of not guilty as guilty, 
even although the defendant while pleading should make a state- 
ment impliedly admitting the charge ... ... 3 

To try a criminal case upon admissions only is improper . . . . 6 

A delay of 14 days in entering a charge is no reason for refusing 

process .. ... ... ... ... 10 

The apparent absence of a motive will not justify a Magistrate in 

declining to entertain a plaint ... ... ... .. 10 

Where the plaint and preliminary examination of the • complainant 
disclose an offence cognizable by the Police Court, the Police Magis- 
trate is bound to issue process ... ... ... 12, 13 

A postponement should be applied for on due affidavit - ... ... 12 

A party having given security to keep the peace may be prosecuted in 

respect of the offence on account of which he has been bound over . 12 

Where the Police Magistrate takes down the charge himself, the com- 

plain.ant need not sign the plaint .. . . ... 13 

A Magistrate has nn power to demand bail for good behaviour ... 13 

To try two defendants on one plaint but for distinct charges, is very 

irregular.. .. .. ... ... ... 16 

Where the plaint is too vague to allow of a proper defence being pre- 
pared, the objection should be taken before conviction ... .. 16 

Defendant being reported not to be found is no reascm for dismissing 
acase ... ... ... ... ... .. 19 

A Magistrate cannot award imprisonment as an alternative for non- 
payment of a fine ... ... ... ... 21, 27 

It is desirable to enquire into counter-charges on the same day ... 21 

A complainant's absence, though accounted for in a petition which is 

unsupported by any affidavit, may justify his case being struck off... 22 

No case can be reinstituted without special leave ... ... 29 



Page. 

A Magistrate has a right, when apportioning punishment, to avail him- 
self of his own personal knowledge ... ... -.• 32 

QUEEN'S ADVOCATE'S CERTIFICATE. 

A certificate is not required in charges for forcible entry ... ... 3 

A division officer cannot be tried for a fraudulent act, under the 

Thoroughfares Ordinance, without a certificate. ... .. 17 

A charge under the 23rd clause of the Fiscals' Ordinance cannot be 

entertained without a certificate from the Queen's Advocate ... 21 

Police officers may be tried under the 70th clause of the Police Ordi- 
nance without a certificate ... .. .. .27 

RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY. 

A person may be convicted of this offence, although a co-defendant 

chiirged wiih the theft itself is found not guilty ... ... 2 

Under a charge of theft, a defendant cannot be convicted of receiving 

stolen property ... ... ... ... ... 12 

SECURITY TO KEEP THE PEACE. 

Where the defendants are acquitted, they cannot be boimd over ... 17 
On an appeal by defendants against a J. P. order requiring them to 

furnish security, the Supreme Court directed that complainant should 

also be bound over ... .. ... ... 17, 18 

A party having given security may be prosecuted in respect of the same 

offence ... ... ... ... ... 12 

When a Justice may bind over persons of notoriously bad livelihood ... 22 
A Justice has power to bind over an accused who is charged on oath 

with riotous and forcible entry ... ... ... 28 

A Magistrate may simply bind over parties charged with disorderly 

conduct... ... ... ... ... ... 29 

A complainant cannot be bound over on liLs own affidavit .. ... 34 

THEFT. 

A Magistrate is not justified in entering a verdict of not guilty after 
hearing only the evidence of the complainant, if there be proof offered 
that the defendant sold complainant's property as his own and appro- 
priated the money ... ... ... ... 3 

A finder of lost goods, who deals with them with a dishonest purpose 
and who sets up a lying story to account for his possession, is guilty 
of thelt ... .. ... ... ... ' ... 9 

A person charged with theft cannot be convicted of receiving stolen 

property... ... ... ... ... ___ j.^ 

THOMBO EXTRACTS. 

Where a headman declines to grant a schedule, he should furnish his 

reasons in writing to the applicant ... ... ___ 7 

THOKOUOIIPARES ORDINANCE.— (iVb. 10 0/ 1861.) 

A division officer cannot be tried for a fraudulent act, under the Tho- 
roughfares Ordinance, without a certificate from the Queen's Advo- 
cate ... ... ... __ j» 

The affirmation, in appeal, of a finding that a path is a private and not 

a public one, pronounced no bar to a ci^il suit to try the question 20 

A division officer whose misconduct does not amount to fraud cannot 
beconvictedofabreachofsec. 3, cl. 46 ... iraua cannot 



INDEX. XI 

TIMBER ORDINANCE. • (No 24 of lh48.) Page. 

The burden of proof is always on the defendant to shew that the land 

on which the timber wa'? cut is not crown property ... 13, 19 

A Magistrate has no power to order the seizure and sale of timber ... 31 

TOLL,.— (Ordinance 14 o/1867.) 

A bicycle is not liable to payment of toll .. ... 4 

A certificate from an '• overseer" is insufficient to entitle a party to 

claim exemption under the 7th clause ... ... ... 10 

The full toll of six pence is leviable on every relieving- horse passing a 

toll-bar unattached to any vehicle ... . 15 

It is illegal to receive toll at any place other than that fixed by procla- 
mation ... ... ... ... ... 20 

TRESPASS.— (Ordinance 2 o/18.S5.) 

Damages should be assessed by the principal resident headman of the 
village, aided, if practicable, by a jury of three or more respectable 
persons... ... ... .. ... ... 13 



GRENIER'S 
APPEAL PEPOPTS. 



VOLUME II 

FRO.M JANUARY TO DECEMBER 187.}. 



ERRATA. 
Part I. 



Part II. 
In C. R. Panadure, 14635, read " defendant" for 
" plaintiff" in the 7th line, and "for" instead of 
" a^ai«i^" in the 2nd line from bottom 



Page. 



In P. C, Galle, 82759, read " their employment" for 
"•whose employment" in the 14th line from 
bottom t2. 

In P. C. Matale, 3172, read " tivo hours" for " tied 

and hound" in the 6th line from top ... ... 33. 



Part III. 

In D. C. Kandy, 54761, read " I do not think" for 

" I do think" in the 7th line from bottom ... ... 102. 

In D. C. Galle, 32979, read "privity of contract" 
for "priority of contract" throughout the judg- 
ment of the Supreme Court ... ... ... ... 145. 



THE APPEAL REPORTS. 



1873. 



PART I.— POLICE COURTS. 



January 3. 

Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

P. C. Kaluiara, 47352, The facts of the case were briefly as 
follows. The Government had, by a Proclamation dated the 28th 
January, 1869, * established at Bentota, in the Southern Province, a 
Police Force, the cost of which was met by levying an assessment tax 
from the inhabitants thereof. In 1871, the Government Agent, 
W.P., having discovered that the boundaries det<iiled in the Proclamation 
took in a little village called Alutgamme, situated in the Western 
Province, commenced to levy an assessment tax which the villagers 
refused to pay. Distress warrants were issued to the Modliar of 
Kalutara who, on proceeding to distrain, was opposed by defendants ; 
and hence the present charge against them, of resisting and obstructing 
the complainant (the Modliar) in the execution of his duty, in breach 
of the 77th clause of Ordinance 16 of 1865. The evidence at the 
trial disclosed, that the Police station was at Bentota, on the southern 
side of the Bentota Ganga, which ran between Bentota and Alut- 
gamme, and that the ModUar had to send across the river for two 
policemen to aid him in distraining. It further transpired that several 
of the inhabitants had petitioned the Government Agent, against the 
impropriety of recovering the tax, but that no reply had been granted, 
although the Modliar had reported on fhe matter. The resistance 
complained of was initiated by the 1st accused who, having objected 
to pay, saying " he was not liable to pay for Police of Bentota," shut 
the door of his house against the Vidahn Aratchy who, by order 
of the Modliar, was about to enter it to seize some furniture. On the 

* " Whereas it is expedient that a Police Force should be established 
at Bentota in the Southern Province : 

" It is therefore hereby proclaimed that, from and after the first day of 
April next, a Police Force shall be established in the town of Bentota in 
the said Province, for the effectual protection of person and property, and 
that the limits of the said town shall be, on the north by the Kalawel 
Ganga and Madda Ela, on the east by the new Canal and the Bentota Lake, 
on the south by the Northern boundary of Bandarawatta, and on the west 
by the sea." 



I PART 1. — 

Police arriving, the other accused, with a large crowd, got on the 
verandah and stood three deep, preventing any access to the house. 
The Magistrate found all the accused who were identified guilty, and 
fined the 1st defendant, as the ringleader, in the sum of Rs. 50. 

In appeal, the case had been argued on the 1 1th of September, 1 872, 
by Grenier, for the appellant. — The intention, as distinctly expressed 
in the reciting and the enacting parts of the Proclamation, was to 
establish a Police ioroe at Bentota in the Southern Province ; and 
the Government Agent of the Western Province had no power to act. 
The Ordinance most carefully guarded against a clashing of jurisdic- 
tion as between one Government Agent and another, (see clause 41, ;) 
and a Proclamation specially affecting the Southern Province could 
only be taken to authorise the Government Agent of that province, in 
view of the sense in which the term " Government Agent" was used 
throughout the Ordinance. [If the village in question falls within the 
limits defined as required by the 13th clause, the Proclamation must 
be regarded as giving both the Government Agents jurisdiction. — 
C. J.] Accepting that view, there remained the fatal objection that no 
rate for paying the cost of the Police had been proclaimed with the sanc- 
tion of the Governor and Executive Council. [Do yon contend that 
two Proclamations were necessary before the tax could be levied ? — 
C. J.J Two distinct Proclamations were required : one to establish 
the Police, another to define the per centage on assessment (Quotes 
the 34th clause.) The latter Proclamation was not produced at the 
trial, nor did it appear to have ever issued. 

The Queen's Advocate, for the i-espondent, urged that the objection, 
if valid, ought to have been taken in the Court below ; and that it 
was too late now to raise it. The clause quoted by his learned friend 
might be construed to mean that the minimum of six pence per quarter 
could be levied (as he believed was attempted to be done in the 
present case) under the authority of the Ordinance, without the in- 
tervention of a Proclamation. [I don't think so. It is clear that a 
Proclamation to fix the percentage is as necessary as one to establish 
s PoKce Force. Was such Proclamation ever issued ? C. J.] He could 
not say, but would enquire. [Per Creasy C. J.— Let the case stand over 
to allow the Queen's Advocate an opportunity to produce the required 
Proclamation.] ' 

Ferdinands, D. Q. A., on behalf of the Queen's Advocate, having 
intimated that the Proclamation called for did not exist, judgment was 
this day pronounced, by Stewart, J,, as follows: "Set aside and 
defendants acquitted. This case has stood over, from time to time, 
for the Queen's Advocate to produce the Proclamation, if any was 
ever issued, under the 34th section of Ordinance 16 of 1865, fixino- the 
amount of percentage, on the annual value of.houses, to be levied for 
the maintenance of the Police. The Proclamation produced in 
evidence by the complainant, only relates to the establishment of a 



POLICE COURTS. 3 

Police Force within the limits therein mentioned. But to sustain 
this prosecution, there ought also to have issued a Proclamation fixing 
the rates to be levieil, as required by the 34th section. The Queen's 
Advocate not being able to refer us to any such Proclamation, and, 
as far as we are aware, no such Proclamation having ever issued, the 
conviction must be set aside." 



Jam. 



P. C. Rafnapura, 13493. This was a charge of forcible entry, Forcible 
under the Proclamation of 1819. The Magistrate convicted the de- entry, 
fendants, holding that the complainant had been in possession of the 
land in question, and that " the defendants had taken away the crop 
without fighting, simply because no one fought with them." In appeal, 
Ferdinands for the appellant was not called upon. And per Creasy, 
C. J. — " Set aside. There is no proof here that violence was used or 
that violence was threatened. The Police Magistrate is quite right 
in holding that, in order to bring a case within the law against forcible 
entry, it is not necessary that there should have been an actual fight. 
If the peaceable possessor yields to the threat of physical force, and 
thereby avoids it, the case is still one of forcible entry, such as the 
law will punish. Such a threat need not be by words. It may be 
by the production or by the brandishing of weapons, or by mere bodily 
gesture, or by bringing a band of ruffians to the place obviously 
organised for conflict ; but there must be either an actual employment, 
or an actual menace, of physical violence, before the wrong doers 
can be properly convicted of forcible entry. And this must be proved. 
It is not enough to suspect that force or menace would have been 
used, if the complainant and his friends had been more disposed to 
cling to their property. In the present case, the complainant certainly 
says that the accused took his crop forcibly, but that may merely 
mean that they took it against his will. The word "force" like the 
latin word " vis,'' in cases of trespass to land, applies to any ac*, where- 
by the ideal fence which the law -places round each man's property 
is broken. But in order to punish criminally, there must- be proof 
that the criminal used force equivalent to the atrox vis of the Roman 
Law, which might occur by the threat, as well as by the actual inflic- 
tion, of physical violence. None of the complainant's witnesses in 
this case, proves any specific act which can be construed into a threat 
of the kind. In the case referred to in the Police Magistrate's judg- 
ment, as affirmed by the Supreme Court, Ratnapura 10922, there 
was express proof of threatening with a stick. In order to guard 
against misapplication of this judgment in future cases, it may be well 
to add that there may be cases of forcible entry in which no violence 
is used or threatened to the possessor or his people, but in which 
there is so much outrage in breaking down walls, fences and the like, 
or in which so much alarm is caused to the neighbourhoud, as to make 
the wrong doers liable to conviction.. But the present case does not 
come within either of these classes.'' 



Jan. 3. 



Cruelty 

to 
animals. 



P. C. Oalle, 82377. The defendant was charged, under clause 
1 of Ordinance 7 of 1862, with having beaten, ill-treated and killed 
a cow. The complainant having admitted that the animal had tres- 
passed in the defendant's enclosure, the Magistrate held that no 
criminal indictment would lie, and dismissed the case. In appeal, the 
judgment was set aside, and a further hearing ordered ; and per 
Stewart, .T. — "The Magistrate should not on the mere statement of 
the complainant, that the animal was trespassing at the time in the 
defendant's enclosure, have stopped the case without enquiring into 
the circumstances connected with the alleged cruel ill-treatment of 
the cow. It will be seen that the Ordinance No, 7 of 1862, under 
which the charge is laid, unlike the Ordinance No. 6 of 1846, does not 
make it necessary that the act should be malicious. The fact of the 
tresspass will, however, no doubt, be a circumstance which it will be 
proper duty to consider, tpgether with the mode and extent of the ill- 
usage, in determining whether or not the defendants cruelly ill-treated 
the animal, in contravention of the Ordinance, We have also to point 
out, that the case having come on for trial, the complainant should 
have been examined on oath or affirmation. The examination autho- 
rised by the 2nd section of the Ordinance No. 18 of 1871 has refer- 
ence to a prior stage of the case, before the issue ofptocess to the 
defendant." 



Hearsay 
evidence. 



P. C. Galle, 83447. The defendant was convicted of having 
stolen a rupee from the almirah of complainant's wife, who however did 
not give evidence, the husband deposing to facts which she ought to 
have personally proved. In appeal, (^Grenier for appellant,) the 
judgment was set aside, and a further hearing ordered, "because some 
of the most material facts of the case appear in the record to be sup- 
ported by hearsay evidence only." 



Maintenance. P- C. Matara, 71159. The defendant, who was sued for mainten- 
ance on behalf of his illegitimate child, had, after the filing of the 
plaint, but before the issuing of the summons, tendered to- the com- 
plainant a rupee. The Magistrate considered this sum sufficient, and 
entered a verdict of not guilty. In appeal, (Grenier for respondent,) 
the judgment was set aside ; and per Ckeasy, C. J. — " .Judgment of 
guilty to be entered with a fine of 12J cents, and the defendant to pay 
the complainant the costs of entering the plaint. T^ie offence was 
complete at the time when the suit was instituted. The subsequent 
tender of sufficient maintenance money cannot annul the truilt thouo'h 
it may properly reduce the punishment." 



Servants, 



P. C. Mannar, 3873. Held that tappal runners, employed under 
.a contract, were servants within the mearjing of the Labor Ordinance. 



POLICE COURTS. 5 J j^n 9 

P. C. Matara, 71073. The defendant, who was complainant's Defective 
horsekeeper, was charged with having fraudulently demanded, received plaint. 
and appropriated Rs. 11, which was due to complainant from a third 
party as carriage hire. The Magistrate dismissed the case, holdhig 
that the plaint disclosed no offence which he had jurisdiction to try. 
In appeal, the finding was affirmed. 



P. C. Fanadure, 20037. The defendant was charged, under clause Timb r 
8 of Ordinance 24 of 1848, with having removed two carts-load of f m n . 
Lunomedelle planks, without a permit. The Magistrate, having relied 
on the authority quoted for the defence from Thompson, p. 78, as 
shewing that the timber in question did not fall within the Ordinance, 
acquitted the defendant. Jn appeal, (Brito for the respondent,) the 
judgment was set aside and case remanded for further hearing and 
consideration ; and per Stewart, J. — " The case cited in Mr. Justice 
Thompson's book, in page 78, is inaccurately quoted. In that case, the 
Supreme Court held that large timber cut for such marketable pur- 
poses as staves, etc., does not fall within the exception in the 1 5th 
clause of the Ordinance 24 of 1848. An accurate copy of this judgment 
is hereto appended.* At the further hearing, fuller enquiry should 
be made as to the size, quality and uses of the Lunomedelle tree, so 
as to enable the Court to determine whether this tree can properly 
be deemed a valuable description of timber tree within the meaning 
of the Ordinance." 



January 9. 

Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

P. C. Oampola, 23842. This was a charge, under the 26th clause Arrack 
of the Arrack Ordinance, for selling less than a gallon of arrack at Ordinaoce. 
Es. 4, the authorized price for a gallon being only Rs, 2-56. The de- 
fendant, who was a retail arrack dealer, delivered five quart bottles 
which he represented as containing a gallon ; but. on the arrival of 
the Police at the shop, he tendered another .bottle and the balance 
money to complainant. Magistrate (^Neville) fined the defendant 
Ks. 20, and ordered that the arrack should be confiscated. In appeal, 

' P. C Avishawella, 4642. Per Cubiam— "That the judgment of 
the said Police Court of the 19th November, 1852, should be set aside, and 
the same is hei eby set aside accordingly ; and the case is remanded for 
re-bearing, and to give judgment de novo. The Assessors state that 
trees of the description mentioned in the charge would, if large, not bf cut 
down for firewood, and thnt they are uaed for temporary buildings, coffins 
and coffee casks, jis there is a great demand for staves for coffee casks 
they 1' ere probably cut for the latter , and th« Court does not consider 
that large timber cut for such marketable purposes could be considered to 
fall und' r the exception in the ')th clause of the Ordinance No. 24 of 1848." 
— Civil Minutes, I8th December, 1852. 



Jan. 14.1 



PART I. — 



per Stewakt, J. — " The judgment is altered, in so far as respects the 
confiscation of the arrack, which part of the judgment is set aside ; 
in other respects it is affirmed. The Ordinance No. 10 of 1844 does 
not authorize the confiscation of the arrack, under the circumstances 
stated in the charge." 



Broihel- P- C. Oalle, 83550. The plaint was as follows : "that the defen- 

keepers. dant did, between the 18th and .3 1st December, and on divers other 
times and seasons, between that and this day, in Talbot town in Galle, 
have and occupy and keep and maintain a common, ill-governed and 
disorderly house ; and in the said house, for the lucre and gain of him 
the said defendant, did cause and procure certain persons, male and 
female, of ill-fame and dishonest conversation, there to meet, frequent 
and come together ; and the said persons, in the saidhouse, at unlaw- 
ful times, ,TS well at night as in the day, to remain tippling, whoring 
and misbehaving themselves, did permit, to the great damage and com- 
mon nuisance of all the liege subjects of our Lady the Queen there 
inhabiting, and against the peace of our Lady the Queen, her Crown 
and dignity." It appeared that the defendant had attended Court as 
a witness, and, on being asked, while giving evidence, what his occu- 
pation was, stated (before the Magistrate could give him any warning) 
that he was the keeper of a bawdy house. He was thereupon imme- 
diately prosecuted by an Inspector of Police, who happened to be pres- 
ent ; and, having yileaded guilty to the charge, without applying for 
a postponement in the absence of a summons, he was sentenced to 
three months' imprisonment at hard labor. In appeal, the defendant 
by petition urged " that the charge preferred against him was not 
cognizable by the Police Court, and did not disclose an oflence under 
any statute or common law in the Colony." 

Orenier, for the appellant, would not question the law of the case, 
but relied for a reversal on the ground of jurisdiction. The old Va- 
grant Ordinance, 3 of 1840, had specially provided a, sentence of 6 
months' hard labor and afine of £5 on the first conviction, anddouble 
that punishment on the second conviction, of every keeper of a brothel 
or disorderly house. The Ordinance 4 of 1841, which repealed 3 of 
1840, did not re-enact that provision, and hence the charge being laid 
under the common law ; but, in view of what had once been the re- 
cognised penalties for the ofl[ence, the prosecution should have been 
conducted in a superior Court. Besides, as this was a public nuisance, 
the Queen's Advocate ought to have taken the initiative as had been 
done in Newman's case. 

Sed per Chbiam. — Affirmed. 



January 14. 
Present Creast, C. J. 
Servants. P. C. Oalle, 83566. This was a charge against a servant, under 

clause 11 of Ordinance 11 of 1865, for quitting complainant's service, 



POLICE COURTS. 7 ( j^,^, [^ 

wiAout reasonable cause and without having given due notice. The 
defendant, who was an Ayah, appeared to have obtained leave to visit 
a fortner mistress : she went, but never returned. In defence, she 
stated that she had gone because her child was ill. The Magistrate 
found her guilty, and sentenced her to seven days' imprisonment. In 
appeal, the judgment was affirmed; and per Creasy, C. J. — " The ap- 
pellant, at the trial, told a story inconsistent with the story by means 
of which she obtained temporary leave of absence from her employer. 
Neither story is proved. The fact that she had previously sent away 
her clothes, shows that she intended to desert the service entirely. 
A complete desertion cannot be justified, in law or in common sense, 
by a permission for temporary absence, especially where that permis- 
sion has been fraudulently obtained." 



P. C. Urugalla, 3919. The defendant was charged with having Timber 
cut timber, on a Crown Forest, without a licence, in breach of the 5th Ordinance, 
clause of Ordinance 24 of 1 848 and 2nd clause of Ordinance 4 of 1 864. 
The Magistrate, having declared himself dissatisfied with the evidence, 
as to the land not being private property, entered a verdict of not 
guilty, and referred complainant to a civil action. In appeal, per 
Creasy, C. J.— "Set aside. Judgment of guilty to be entered, and 
defendant to be sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 40. The Police 
Magistrate has wholly overlooked the provisions in clause 12 of Or- 
dinance 24 of 1848, which throw on the defendant the burden of 
proof as to the land not being Crown land." 



P. C. Matale, 2668. Defendants were charged with having gam- Gambling, 
bled with dice " at Konaknloyoda in a jungle." The magistrate held 
that "there was no proof that the oflfence had been committed in a 
public or open place which could be seen from the road," and 
acquitted the defendants. In appeal, per Creasy, C. J.— "Set 
aside, and case sent back for the Police Magistrate to pass sentence 
on the 1st, 5th, and 6th defendants, who have pleaded guilty, and 
for further hearing as to the others. The complainant should 
adduce further evidence, if he has any, of previous gambling by any 
parties in or near to the same place. See the statement in 1st 
witness' evidence, that people gamble in that jungle and that they 
go from place' to place in the same jungle. If no such evidence ia 
forthcoming, the acquittal of the prisoners who have pleaded not 
guilty will be right," 



P. C. Batticaloa, 5476. The plaint, as filed on the 30th Novem- Servants, 
ber, 1872, was " that tie defendants did, during the months of June 
and October, namely the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 6th in October, and 
the 5th in June, 1 872, wilfully refuse and neglect to work under the 



Jan. 23 



■! 



PART I.— 

complainant, in Rockwood Estate, after agreeing to do so, against the 
1 1 th clause of Ordinance 1 1 of 1 86 5 ." On tbe 6th of December, the 
defendants being absent, the complainant obtained a warrant against 
the 1st and 4th, withdrawing the charge as against the others. On 
the 1 9th of December, (to which day the case had been postponed) 
the following order was made by the Magistrate: "Warrant not 
taken out by complainant, He asks for time to do so. Struck ofi. 
Complainant referred to a civil action." In appeal, per Ceeast, C. J. 
— " Appeal dismissed, except so far as regards the order referring 
the complainant to a civil action, which is declared to be null and 
void. After the delay of complainant in taking out the warrant, 
the Police Magistrate was justifird in not repeating his order for a. 
warrant. His order referring the complainant to a civil case was an 
assumption of authority not possessed by him. It may be observed, 
that the present plaint is substantially defective." 



January 23. 

Present Creast, 0. J. 

Prostitutes. P- (• Colombo, Si^'i. On the information of Mr. Sutton, Inspec - 
tor of Police, that the defendants were common prostitutes at Wolfen- 
dahl Street, the usual notice for attendance, prescribed by the 
Contagious Diseases Ordinance of 1867, issued from the Police Court. 
On the day of trial, the accused appeared by a Proctor and pleaded not 
guilty. They were, however, convicted, and an order was made 
subjecting them to a periodical medical examination by a visiting 
Surgeon. In appeal, Coomaraswamy, for the defendants, contended 
that the due service of the notice on the accused, who were absent at 
the investigation, not having been verified on oath, as required by the 
7th clause of the Ordinance, the order of the Magistrate was irregular. 
But the judgment was affirmed, the Chief Justice remarking that the 
accused, having been represented by a Proctor, were bound by the 
adjudication. 



Jurisdiction. P- C. Galle, 83102. The defendant was charged with having as- 
saulted and wounded the complainant with a club. The evidence 
disclosed that the complainant' had been struck on the head, that she 
had fallen senseless, had bled much, and had been in hospital for sever- 
al days under medical treatment. The assault appeared to have 
been committed in the course of a dispute as to some plantain ti-ee.s, 
growing on a land the title to which was in question between 
the parties. The defendant was acquitted. In appeal, the judg- 
ment was set aside, and the case sent back for proceedings to be 
taken before the Justice of the Peace, under clause 103 of Ordinance 



POI.TCK COURTS. 9 

11 of 1868. And per Creasy, C. J.— "The case was beyond the 
Police Magistrate's jurisdiction. The Supreme Court does not either 
generally take or sustain that objection onbehalfof defendants, unless 
it has been made at the hearing before the Police Magistrate ; and it 
is an objection not usually to be listened to on behalf of a complainant. 
But this may properly be regarded as an exceptional case. The ap- 
pellant is evidently a woman in humble station , without professional 
advice. The delay and difficulty in getting the 1st defendant before 
the Police Magistrate are suspicious, and unless there is a further in- 
vestigation of this case, we may be suffering a serious offence to be 
passed over without any effectual trial. " 



January 28. 

Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

P. C, Colombo, A. The charge in this case was " that the defen- Forcible 
dant did, on the 13th of January, at Morotuwa, unlawfully enter into removal, 
the cinnamon garden of Juse Silva, in charge of complainant, and 
forcibly take away a bullock which had been seized and detained there 
for trespass." The Magistrate rejected the plaint, holding that it 
disclosed no offence. In appeal, the order was affirmed ; and per 
Creasy, C. J. — "No criminal offence is sufficiently stated. The 
word ' forcibly ' may mean no more than the breach of the ideal 
fence, which the law assumes to protect all property, Neither is it 
made to appear that the defendant rescued goods fi-om the actual ^ 
custody of the law. See R. v, Bradshaw, 7 C & P, 233." 



February 4. 

Present Creasy, 0. J. and Stewart, J. 

P. C. Matale, 71183. The defendants were charged, under clause Cruelty to 
1 of Ordinance 7 of 1862, with having cut and injured a cow, the animals, 
property of the complainant. The eye-witness in the case stated, " I 
know the cow. I saw 1st defendant cut it. This was two months 
ago. The animal was in the defendant's land. I could not make 
out whether the land was planted," The complainant, who was the 
heardsman, deposed that the cow had a cut on the hind leg near the 
hip, and that it had cost him ten rupees to have the animal doctored. 
The Magistrate held as follows : " This is a matter for a civil reme- 
dy, if true. Accused are discharged." In appeal, the judgment was 
affirmed ; and per Stewart, J. — " No cruelty was proved within the 
meaning of the Ordinance referred to in the plaint." 



Flb. 4. I 

Vroceedings 
quashed. 



10 



PAUT I. 



P. C. Galle,SS6S\. The plaint in tliia case was identical with 
the one in No. 83447, reported in page 4, excepting that the com- 
plainant on the record was the wife instead of the husband. The 
Magistrate, having found the defendant guilty, recorded the same sen- 
tence as before, of six weeks' hard labor. In appeal, (Grenier iov 
appellant,) the proceedings were quashed for irregularity ; and per 
Stewart, J. — " The charge in this case is for the identical oflfence of 
which the defendant was accused in the case 83447. The conviction 
was set aside by the Supreme Court, and the case sent back for fur- 
ther hearing. That case is consequently still pending, and ought to 
be proceeded with. The case was sent back, not for a new plaint to 
be prepared, but for the same charge to be further heard ; and the 
Supreme Court desires that that may be done accordingly," 



Butcher's 
Ordinance. 



Assault and 
Theft. 



P. C. Panadure, 20498. The defendant was charged with having 
slaughtered a bullock at MorotomuUe, within the Police limits of 
Morotto, without a license, in breach of clause 13 of Ordinance 14 of 
1859. The defendant appeared to have obtained a license from the 
headman of an adjoining village, but in doing so, the Magistrate ex- 
pressly held, he had not acted bona-fide, and he was accordingly 
convicted. In appeal, the finding was affirmed; and per Stbwakt, J,— 
" The defendant is expressly found not to have acted bona-fide. 
This case is therefore different from the Colombo Police Court case 
referred to," (No. 32513, I Orenier, p. 1.) 



P. C. Galle, 83604. Two defendants were charged, in one plaint, 
with assault and theft. The Magistrate having found only the 1st 
guilty, sentenced him to six weeks' hard labor. In appeal, per 
Creasy, C. J. — " Affirmed, so far as regards the judgment of guilty 
of assault, but not as to the charge of theft. The acquittal of the 2nd 
accused shews that the Magistrate must have disbelieved the charge 
of theft. There was no evidence whatever to fix the crime of theft 
on the appellant, except his supposed complicity with the 2nd accus- 
ed and an act of theft by the 2nd accused, which alleged act the 
Magistrate evidently disbelieved. The punishment given in this case 
is the ordinary punishment for assault, and there is no need to inter- 
fere with the case further on account of it. But it is not a matter 
of indiiferenoe, whether this record stands as a conviction of assault 
only, or as a conviction of assault and theft. The character of a con- 
victed thief is much more damaged than that of a man who has been 
merely found guilty of assault." 



Timher Ordi- P. ( . Kandy, 90663. On thi.s case (which is reported in page 19 
nance, of Part I, 1872) being reheard in the Police Court, both the defen- 
dants and complainant led evidence ; and the Magistrate held by his 



POLICE COURTS. 11 } „^ 



former finding of " not guilty." In appeal, per Stkwaht, J. — 
"Affirmed, There is more evidence on the part of the defendants; 
and the appeal being on a matter of fact, the Supreme Court is pre- 
cluded from considering whether the Magistrate came to a, right or 
wrong conclusion on the evidence. The question of title to the land 
is still open for adjudication in a Civil Court." 



( 



P. C. Galle, 83198. This was a charge, under the 166th clause of Fnlse infor- 
Ordinance U of 1868,thatdefendanthadfaIsplyaccusedeomplainant,on matioa. 
his solemn affirmation before a Justice of the Peace, with cattle steal- 
ing. The Magistrate held that the information was false, but express- 
ed some doubt as to whether defendant had acted with malice. He 
further held that defendant, having made enquiry before prefen'ing 
the charge, had arrived at such a knowledge of the circumstances as 
should have led him, being a reasonable man, nOt to prefer it ; and 
that, therefore, the defendant should be taken as having made the 
false charge wilfully, knowing it to be false. A verdict of guilty was 
accordingly recorded. /» a/5joea?, ( (?renier for appellant.) the judg- 
ment was affirmed ; and per Creasy, C. J. — " The evidence shows 
that the charge was false, and that it must have been false within the 
knowledge of the appellant. The appellant, in making his affidavit 
against the complainant, must have done so with intent to support a 
false accusation against the complainant. This satisfies the Ordinance 
under which appellant has been convicted." 



February 11. 
Present Ckeasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
P. C. Matara,7lS99. This was a charge laid under the 1st section, Farious 
53rd clause of Ordinance 16 of 1865, for furiously driving a hackery, drivmg. 
In appeal, against a conviction, the judgment was affirmed ; and per 
Stewart, J, — '' Affirmed, but the charge ought to have been under 
the 83rd clause." 



P. C. Galle, 82759. The defendant, who was a Dhoby, was charg- Dhoby case. 
ed with gross neglect of duty, under the 1 1 th clause of the Labour 
Ordinance. He was found guilty, and sentenced to a forfeiture of 
wages and to imprisonment, without hard labour, for ten days. In 
appeal, Ferdinands, for appellant, submitted that the Negombo de- 
cision referred to by the Magistrate could not be taken to apply, as ' 
it did not appear that the Dhoby who was thereby convicted had 
worked for more than one employer, as in this ease. The words 
" other like servants " -should be construed to mean servants ejusdem 
generis as " menial " or " domestic " servants, amongst whom it would 



Pkb.II.]- 12 PARTI.— 

be unreasonable to include a Dhoby, who washed outside his employer's 
premises and who was the servant of several masters at one and the 
same time. The judgment, however, was affirmed ; and per Creasy, 
C. J. — " In this case, the matter for consideration was whether an 
ordinary Dhoby, employed to do the washing of a household at so 
much a month, is within the meaning of the Ordinance No. 11 of 
1865 respecting servants and labourers. There is a decision of this 
Court, (Police Court, Negombo —reported at page 9 of Mr. Grenier's 
Reports), that the Ordinance does apply to such a person. It was 
stated in the j iidgment of the Court below, in the present case, that 
the Negombo decision was in direct opposition to a previous decision 
of this Court in a Jafiua Police Court case, No. 4273. The Supreme 
Court thought it desirable to send for the record of the Jaflna case, 
which has occasioned some delay. It appears that the Jaftna record 
is not to be found ; but we have been furnished with an extract from 
the Jaftna Police Court calendar, by which it is shown that the deci- 
sion in that case was a decision on the old Ordinance No. 5 of 1841, 
the words of which differ materially from the words of the Ordinance 
now in question. The 7th clause of the Ordinance of 1841, which 
imposed certain penalties for misconduct, thus describes the parties 
liable to be charged under it, ' any menial or domestic servant or 
laborer or journeyman artificer.' But the Ordinance No. 11 of 1865, 
by its first clause, describes the persons to be embraced by the word 
' servant ' as follows : — ' The word servant shall, unless otherwise ex- 
pressly qualified, extend to and include menial, domestic and other 
like servants.' It is the addition of these words ' and other like ' 
which makes all the difference. These words, like aU other words in 
a statute, must not be treated as meaningless, if a reasonable meaning 
can be assigned to them ; but to hold that no servant can come under 
th3 Ordinance, unless he be in all respects a menial or domestic ser- 
vant, would be to treat those words as meaningless surplusage. We 
• consider them to reasonably mean such servants as, with regard to the 
nature and mode of whose employment and services, generally resem- 
ble menial or domestic servants, but witli some circumstances or cir- 
cumstance of variance, such circumstances or circumstance of variance 
not being important enough to efface the effect of the general simili- 
tude. The regular Dhoby of a household, employed and paid, not 
for a piece work, but by the month, appears to us to be a person gen- 
erally resembling the domestic servant of the household. He who 
collects and washes the dirty linen of the household, and has to bring 
it back and count it out clean, is employed about the regular and 
necessary business of the household, just as much as the Appu, who 
spreads part of the linen, when cleaned, on the table, or the body servant 
or Ayah, who puts away in the almirahs other linen which the Dhoby 
has washed. And decidedly the Dhoby's services are not of a hio-her 
order than their's are. Having established the general similitude, we 



POLICE COURTS. 13 

must next look for the features of difierence. It may be suggested, 
that the Dhoby does the main part of his work oft the piemiseB. But 
this seems to us to be a very unimportant matter.' The same might 
be said of an errand boy, habitually sent oft" the premises. The really 
difterential circumstance appears to be this. An ordinary Dhoby does 
the washing of several households. But the eflect of this variance 
does not, to our minds, obliterate the eflect of the general similitude ; 
and We hold accordingly, both on the reason of the thing and on the 
authority of the previous decision of this Court in the Negombo case, 
that a Dhoby, employed as this appellant was, comes within the words 
' menial, domestic or other like servants.' It follows that the penal- 
ties of the 1 ith clause apply to him, if guilty of any misconduct which 
that clause specifies ; and this Dhoby has decidedly been so guilty.'' 



Feb. 1!. 



F. C. Oalle, 82758. The defendant was convicted of having left Labor Ordi- 
complainant's service, without giving due notice, in breach of the 1 1 th nance, 
clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865. The complainant, in his evidence, 
stated " defendant was employed by me in the office as lithographing 
boy. He was paid by the month — Rs. 15 per mensem. He only did 
the lithographing work." £n appeal, (Dias for appellant) per Ckeast, 
C J. — "Set aside. The complainant describes the duties of this ap- 
pellant as follows : - ' He was employed by me in the office as litho- 
graphing boy.' It seems to the Supreme Court, that it would be a 
perversion of language to say that a person so employed was a ' menial, 
domestic or other like servant, or a pioneer, kangany or other la- 
bourer.' See the Interpretation clause of Ordinance No. 11 of 1865. 
To lithograph even letters, requires the exercise of some intellectual 
ability, as well as of special manual skill. It resembles the duties of 
a copying Clerk, whom no one would think of punishing under the 
Servants' and Labourers' Ordinance." 



P. C. Gampola, 23847. The plaint was " that the defendants, be- Coolies, 
ing servants and kanganies in the employ of Mr. James Ryan of St. 
Clair Estate, on the 14th day of November, 1872, at Orwell Estate, with- 
out reasonable cause, did neglect and refuse to attend at St. Clair Estate, 
where they had contracted to attend in commencing and carrying on 
work ; wilfully disobeyed the lawful and reasonable orders of their 
said employer ; grossly neglected their duty ; and otherwise miscon- 
ducted themselves in the service of their said employer ; in breach of 
the 11th clause of the Ordinance No. 11 of 1865." The Magistrate 
(Neville) held as follows : 

" In this case, complainant, on behalf of his employer Mr. Ryan, 
sues two kanganies employed imder him. Mr. Ryan has two 
estates, Orwell and St. Clair, in Gampnla and Dimbula, res- 



„ ,, ) 14 PART I.— 

i EB. 11.- 



/ 



pectively. It is contended that defendants being ordered to 
proceed from the estate in Gampola to that in DimbuUa, and hav- 
ing refused, have subjected themselves to penal consequences for dis- 
obeying their employer's reasonable order without cause. The facts 
to be' decided upon become— 1. Were defendants generally bound, 
by the general law of Master and Servant, to transfer their services 
from Gampola to Dimbulla ? 2. Were they generally hound by any 
special agreement so to transfer their services ? If defendants were 
generally bound to transfer services, question next arises— 3. Was 
this special order reasonable ? 4. If otherwise reasonable, did the 
withholding of their pay justify refusal. The Court holds on the 
first count. 1 . That when one proprietor holds land in two districts, 
such as Gampola and Dimbula, a labourer engaged for the one, without 
express stipulation, is not liable to serve on the other. The grounds 
for this opinion are. 1. It is clear the 25th clause of the Ordinance 
intends to provide that Estate Coolies are bound to serve the Estate, 
and the temporary Superintendent or Proprietor is not the owner of 
their services independently of his office, though the provisions of the 
Ordinance as to written contracts of service for one year are generally 
uncomplied with— and service is therefore monthly only ;— yet there 
is no doubt the intention of this Ordinance, under which defendants 
are prosecuted, was that the service of coolies regularly employ- 
ed on an Estate should be to the Estate and not to the Superinten- 
dent. If defendants were bound to an Estate, it was Orwell in Gam- 
pola. 2. Though the defendants are, in absence of a written contract, 
by literal law bound to the Superintendent, (in this case the Conduc- 
tor, complainant) for their month's service, yet there can be no 
doubt they are not bound to perform any duty they had not in a ge- 
neral sense in view when they took service. Thus a man engaging 
as butler in a city, could not be expected to act in that capacity in 
the country, against his inclination and merely to suit his master. 
Neither can a kangany hiring his services for Gampola be held bound 
to serve in Dimbula, where climate, food, health, society and perhaps 
perquisites (such as contracts, &o.) are naturally difierent, — nor could 
a person, with a family dependent on him, be expected reasonably to 
leave that family and continue his ser\-icus elsewhere, when at the 
time of hiring such separation could not be contemplated. So. 60i3 
P C. Badulla (Belinsj and Vanderstraai en's Reports, p. 123) treats of 
an entirely diflei'ent case, when estates were only six miles apart, 
and when a good servant with his master's interest at heart, if he had 
no special reason for rt-fusal, wiis clearly in equity bound to further 
his euiployi-r's iuterus ; since it may be prima facie presumed, none 
of the reasonable views with which he took service were likely to be 
infViuged. On the second count, the P. C. holds 2. Though com- 
pliiiniiut anil his witnesses endeavour to prove two special agreements 
between coiii|ilaiii:iiit'.s pi'dprietoi- and ilefeiulKiits, yet they fail wholly 



POLICK COURTS. 15 

to prove either to my satisfaction. 1st and 3rd witnesses refer to an un- 
derstanding and agreement to this special service, from the time of 
defendants' engagement, but other of complainant's witnesses deny it, 
and I feel satisfied defendants did not so consent. And as regards 
the second alleged agreement in November last, the evidence is very 
weak and contradictory, and I do not believe defendants engaged 
their services for Dimbula as alleged. On the contrary, much in this 
evidence leads me to believe they steadily opposed the proposal, and 
that the coolies whom they did send, when first applied to, were sent 
under compulsion, since they deserted instantly and without any cause 
shown or known, Defendants' subsequent conduct also, I think, shows 
this. They did not desert, but remained on Orwell till after they had 
been refused any further work there. On the third count, it is held : 
considering difference of food, climate and society, it was not reason- 
able to order laborers engaged for work at Gampola to proceed against 
their will to Dimbula, any more than it would be fair to force hoUse- 
servants against their will from Oolombo to Newera Eliya. Further, 
besides this reason, in this special case after defendants had forced 
twenty-four men to go to Dimbula to aid Mr. Ryan, and those men 
had deserted, it was not reasonable to expect the kanganies, who de- 
pend on their gang for a living, to transfer the rest of their men, un- 
less good cause was given why the previous consignment had deserted , 
4. By referring to the check roll and pay list, I find it unfortunately 
kept with pencilled columns of cash advances, totals, &c., allowing of 
extensive fraud by any dishonest conductor possessed of a piece of 
Indian-rubber. Further, it appears not only to defendants but to their 
gangs were due a sum of money exceeding the average of one month's 
earnings, after deducting advances ; and that no settlement was 
made after 31st July last. The alleged debt bond is not produced, 
but as regards defendants I hold the withholding the pay of the 
coolies of a kangany is enough to justify his leaving with them, even 
though his own wages were p.iid, because he receives a capitation 
allowance for each of his men, and his livelihood is lost if he loses 
them. Further, it seems to this Court that the debt bond, even had 
it been produced, could not have been set oft against arrears of wages 
in this case, unless it is so stipulated in the deed itself. A written 
deed has certain advantages in civil suits, which once assumed place the 
debt in an independent position, and on its own merits ahme. So that 
more than a month's pay being due to defendants, they were entitled 
to leave after 48 hour's notice, which, however, Mr. Ryan's previous 
order to refuse them work rendered supei'fluous. For these reasons 
defendants are acquitted." 

In appeal, the iudgraent was affirmed ; and per Stewakt, J— 
"There is not sufficient evidence of general hiring as to scene of 
work." 



Feb. 11. 



Feb. 14. 



16 PART I.- 



Offendera." 



February 1 4. 
Present Creasy, C. J. 
)'ff"^i"!H, -P- ^- Matara, 71121. , The defendants having been found guilty 
of theft, the Court sentenced them, as being "juvenile ofienders," to 
receive twenty strokes with a rattan. From the record, it appeared 
that the punishment was inflicted in the presence of the Magistrate. 
In appeal, by one of the accused, who pleaded that he was not a 
" child," and that he had been improperly flogged, the Chief Justice 
sent the case back, with the following order: " Request the Police 
Magistrate to look to the petition of appeal and inform the Court 
whether this oiiender was a child, and, if so, of about what age. The 
record at present only states that he was a 'juvenile ofiender,' which 
is not necessarily the same thing as a child. Request the Police Magis- 
trate also to inform the Court what jurisdiction he considers himself to 
have had, beyond that (if any) given by the Ordinance 11 of 1868, see 
section 108, to order summary punishment to be inflicted on a child 
on the present charge." The Magistrate's reply having been read 
this day, the judgment of the Court below was aflirmed, and the ap- 
peal dismissed, in the following terms. " This defendant has appealed 
on thegrounds of wantof evidence, and want of right in the complainant 
to prosecute him. These grounds are fnvolous. The evidence of 
defendant having been one of the thieves is ample ; and the com- 
plainant was a legal prosecutor. The defendant further appeals, on the 
ground that he is not a child, so as to be liable to summary moder- 
ate punishment, under clause 108 of Ordinance 11 of 1858. He asserts 
that he is of the age of 20. He also asserts that the punishment was 
not moderate, but was inflicted with the greatest severity. The Su- 
preme Court has made careful enquiry into these matters ; and the Su- 
preme Court is satisfied that the Police Magistrate had reason to believe 
super visum corporis, that the appellant was a boy of about 14, and 
that upon enquiry made (very properly) of the boy's father, who was 
in Court, the father reported him to be only 12 years old. Under 
these circumstances, the Police Magistrate was naturally unwilling to 
send a mere lad to prison ; and we consider that the infliction of a fine 
would be no punishment to the lad, and would fall in reality on his 
father. The Police Magistrate caused him to receive 20 strokes of a 
rattan, which were inflicted in the Magistrate's presence, over two 
cloths which the prisoner was wearing. We are convinced that the 
punishment was moderate. Under these circumstances, all the grounds 
taken in appeal having proved frivolous or unture, the Supreme Court 
does not feel called on in this case to base its judgment on other ob- 
jections to the proceedings, of which no complaint has been made. 
The appeal is dismissed. But, as a caution in futureoases, we point out 
to the Police Magistrate, that the provision at the end of sectionlOS of 
Ordinance 1 I of 1 S68 does not apply to all cases of summary convic- 
tions of children, but to cases where the children are convicted under 



PUL,1VJE^ ^^WUIVIO. 



17 



Feb. 14. 



Ordinances, which, like the Malicious Injuries Ordinance, clause 30, 
and the Police Force Ordinance, 16 of 1865, clause 99, specially 
empower the Police Magistrate, before whom any child is convicted 
under such Ordinance, to order the moderate chastisement of such 
child, instead of subjecting him to any fine or imprisonment." 



P. C. Kandy, 92987. The plaint, as copied verbatim from the rec- Gambling, 
ord, was "that the defendants were, on the 20th day of December, 1 872, 
at Kandy, parties to playing, betting or gaming at a game on the 
bagatelle table, in a house kept for the retail of spirits or other liquors, 
in breach of the 16th clause of Ordinance No. 4 of 1841." The Ma- 
gistrate (^Stewart) delivered judgment as follows : 

" The question as to whether Bagatelle playing is a game of chance, 
appears to have been settled in the affirmative by the Supreme Courtin 
a Gampola case,* and it is therefore unnecessary for the Court to go into 
it. On the other question, the Court is inclined to doubt very much 
whether the 16th clause refers to gamblers. Gambling in general, as 
well as gambling at liquor shops or taverns, is made an offence and 
punishable by the 4th clause, section 4 ; and it could not therefore 
have been intended to provide again for gamblers by the 16th clause, 
which is specially directed against persons permitting or countenanc- 
ing gambling : the only words in it that by any possibility could be 
extended to gamblers, are the words ' and every person who shall be 
a party to such playing,' &c. 13ut in construing this clause, or to ar- 
rive at the true import or correct application of these words, we must 
not only look to the object of the clause itself, but must also have in 
view the 4th clause which, by previously providing for gambling a t 
liquor shops or taverns, takes away the only ground for such possibi- 
lity. Nor can it be supposed that the framers of the Ordinance would 
have twice provided for gamblers in the same enactment and for the 
same offence. Besides the words ' party to ' do not always refer to 
those immediately concerned in any matter or thing, as for instance 
the" expression 'party to a murder' does not imply or necessarily include 
the actual perpetrator of the deed. The words must be taken in con- 
nection with the whole Ordinance, and especially with reference to the 
context or object of the 16th clj(use; and we cannot then but come to 
the only and reasonable conclusion, that they simply and only refer to 
the context of that clause, namely to persons countenancing or permit- 
ting gambling. Further, it could never have been intended to punish 
gambling at taverns or liquor shops with less severity (the 16th clause 
making the ofience only punishable by a fine) than gambling general- 



P. C. Giimpola, 15071. ViJe Civil Minutes of 19th January, 1865. 



Feb. u. I 



18 PART I. — 

ly, for which the 4th clause imposes imprisonment, when we all kno* 
that gambling at taverns is the worst kind of gambling in this coun- 
try and the more serious oftence, taverns being generally the resort 
of the most worthless. The Court thinks, therefore, that the I6th 
clause is not intended to meet the case of gamblers, and in support of 
that opinion, if any doubt remain on the subject, it would refer to a 
decision of the Supreme Court in Mills' Reports, page 21 (dated 27th 
April, 1860) in which that Court considered that the case of keepers 
of taverns, shops, places for the retail of spirits or other liquors, houses 
and other places, open or enclosed, is provided for in the 16th, ITth 
and 1 9th clauses, as contra-distinguished from the case of persons who 
game or play in the abovementioned places, which is provided for in 
the 4th clause, section 4. The defendants are found not guilty." 

In appeal, by the complainant, the judgment was set aside, and the 
defendants found guilty and fined Rs. 5 each ; and per Creasy,C. J.— 
"This was a charge, under Ordinance No. 4 of 1841, section 16, against 
defondaiits, as parties to gaming at a game on a Bagatelle table in a 
tavern. As to the question whether Bagatelle playing is within the 
meaning of the clause of the Vagrant Ordinance, (No. 4 of 1841) 
against gaming, the Police Magistrate rightly followed the decision of 
this Court in the Gampola case referred to. The Police M-rigistrate 
acquitted the defendants on another objection taken, namely, that the 
defendants were not proved to have been tavern-keepers " permitting 
or countenancing gambling," but to have been the actual gamblers. 
It was urged that these defendants Were therefore not punishable 
under the 16th clause, thounjh they might have been under the 4th 
clause. But it is no uncommon thing for an oftence to be punishable 
under more than one clause of an Ordinance or Statute. The prose- 
cutor, in such cases, may proceed under which clause he pleases. The 
words of the L6th clause are as f jIIows : ' and it is further enacted, 
' that all keepers of taverns or other shops or places for the retail of 
' spirits or other liquors, who shall wilfully permit or countenance in 
' or about the same, or in any shed or other building, compound, 
' garden or land, adjoining or near thereto, and occupied by or be- 
' longing to the keeper of such tavern, shop or place, any playing, 
' betting, or gaming at cock-fighting or with any table, dice, 
' cards or other instruments for gamitig at any game or pretended 
'game of chance, and-every person who shall be a party to any such 
' playing, betting or gaming or in any way in transgressing or neg- 
' lecting the provisions of this clause, shall, on the first conviction 
' thereof, forfeit and pay any sum not exceeding the sum of £2.' Now, 
common sense and the ordinary understanding of words clearly point 
the actual gamblers as ' parties to the game,' and these defendants 
are manifestly liable under this clause. A decision of this Court on 
the 1 9th clause has been cited ; but there is an essential difference 
between that clause and the 16th. The 19th clause does not contain 



POLICK COURTS. 



19 



the all important words ' every person who shall be a party to any 
such playing, betting or gaming.' " 



P. G. Oalle, 83440. This was a prosecution, under Ordinances 
24 of 1 848, and 4 of 1 864, for felling timber on crown land without 
a license. The defendant, having been convicted, was sentenced to 
three weeks' hard labor. In appeal, Morgan, for the appellant, con- < 
tended that the Magistrate had no power under the first mentioned . 
Ordinance to impose any punishment other than a fine ; and that he 
had no 'authority to try the case under the Ordinance of 1864, in the 
absence of a certificate from the Queen's Advocate, the prescribed 
penalty being " such punishment by fine or imprisonment, with or 
without hard labor, as it shall be competent for the Court before 
which such conviction shall be obtained to award." The judgment, 
however, was affirmed ; the Chief Justice remarking that the objection 
as to jurisdiction should have been taken in the ('ourt below. 



Feb. 21. 



Timber Ordi- 
nance. 



February 21. 
Present Creast, C. J. 
P. C. Balapitimodara, 43682. The charge was " that the defen- 
dants did, on the 18th January, at Gompenuwella, forcibly take 40 
Gorke planks of the complainant." The 1st defendant (who was a 
police headman) and another, appeared to have seized the planks, as 
not answering to the description of timber mentioned in a permit 
produced by complainant. The Magistrate discharged the accused, 
on the ground that the permit was not in complainant's name. In 
appeal, the judgment was affirmed; and per Creasy, C. J. — "No 
legal charge is set out in the plaint." 



P. C. Jaffna, 1 484. Two of the defendants in this case having 
been absent on the day of trial, the Magistrate (^Livera) found them 
guilty of contempt, and sentenced each to fourteen days' imprison- 
ment. No opportunity to shew cause seemed to have been given to 
the accused, who urged, in their petition, that they had not attended 
Court in consequence of a promise made by complainant, before a 
number of witnesses, that he would withdraw the chai-ge. In appeal, 
the order was set aside ; and per Cbeast, C. J. — " A Police Magis- 
trate can only punish for contempts committed in the face of or within 
the precincts of his Court, and not out of Court. See Thompson's 
Institutes, vol. 1, page 470. The first part of clause 107 of Ordinance 
1 1 of 1868, empowers a Police Magistrate to punish a party who does 
not attend the Court aftfer due notice or summons, but these defen- 
dants have not been sentenced under this part of the Ordinance. 
And even when Police Magistrates think it their duty to act upon 
this part of the Ordinance, they should always give the party charged 



Irregular 
plaint. 



Contempt. 



Feb. 21. 



20 



PART I. 



an adjournment until the following day, so that he may have a fair 
chance of proving that the default for which he is blamed was not 
wilful and disrespectful. The letter of the concluding part of clause 
107 of Ordinance 1 1 of 1868 may not require this, but it is required 
by fairness and equity." 



Felling tim- 
ber without 
license. 



P. C. Badulla, 16343. The plaint charged the defendant with 
having felled and removed, without license, certain trees from crown 
land, in breach of clauses 5 and 15 of Ordinance 4 of 1848. The 
Magistrate {Oibsori) held tliat the action was prescribed by the 14th 
clause of the Ordinance, as the charge had not been preferred within 
3 months of the commission of the oftence, and discharged the defen- 
dant. In appeal, it was urged that, by the Ordinance No. 1 of 1865 
which should be read together with 4 of 1848, the time limited for the 
institution of the action was 2 years. The judgment was, however, 
affirmed ; and per Creast, C. J. — " I cannot say that the Magistrate 
was wrong in dismissing a charge which purported io\ be founded 
only on an Ordinance, 4 of 1 848, about Port- Dues, which has long been 
repealed; and when the Ordinance 24 of 1848, to which the parties 
appear to have referred at the trial, was against the complainant, 
The Ordiuanance 4 of 1864 (called erroneously in the petition of 
appeal 1 of 1865) was not mentioned in the plaint; and even if it 
had been, the complainant does not appear to have had proof ready 
that the Queen's Advocate had elected to proceed in the Police 
Court. See Ordinance 11 of 1868, section 119." 



Nuisance. 



Toll. 



P. C. JMannar, 3826. In this case, the Magistrate held that wash- 
ing dirty linen in a public tank, which was proved to have been used 
for bathing purposes, was an oftence within the meaning of section 7, 
clause 1 of Ordinance 15 of 1862. In appeal, (^Dias for appellant) 
affirmed. 



P. 0- Badulla, 16391. The defendant, who was a toll-keeper, was 
charged with having " knowingly and wilfully refused to allow a cart 
to pass over the bridge at Badulla, in breach of the 7th and IStli 
clauses of the Ordinance No. 14 of 1867." The facts of the case 
are fully given in the following judgment of the Magistrate (Gibson.) 
" This case is brought by the officer of the Public Works Department 
against the Renter of Badulla, for stopping, on the 6th of January, a 
Government cart laden with tools and rice, the driver of which was 
duly furnished with a pass, in breach of the 15th clause of the Ordin- 
ance 14 of 1867. The whole of the facts stated by complainant's 
witnesses are corroborated by the accused's witnesses, that the pass 
was duly produced but that accused would not accept of the same or 
let it pass until money had been paid, the defendant stating that carts 



POLICE COURTS. 21 

laden with rice are not entitled to be exempt. The Court is ot opinion 
that the fact that the cart was loaded with rice would not prevent it 
from being entitled to come under the exemption given in clause 7, 
which exempts all vehicles, etc, employed in the construction or re- 
pair of any road, etc ; for as vehicles themselves cannot work, it 
means clearly those vehicles which convey tools and provisions re- 
quired by the persons constructing the said road ; and this cart is 
proved to have been laden with both rice and tools. Again, it was 
urged by defendant's counsel that, because the cart was going for a 
distance of more than 10 miles from the Badulla toll, the complainant's 
pass would not exempt it ; but the Court is of Opinion, that the Or- 
dinance means that a certificate may pass any vehicle, etc, through any 
toll-bar which is within the distance of ten miles from the head quar- 
ters of the Officer superintending the work. Here the toll station 
is close to the Public Works Department's Offices, and therefore with- 
in the prescribed distance. On these grounds, I don't consider that 
accused had any right to demand payment for the carts, and coiise- 
quently he has been guilty of a breach of the Ordinance, though 1 
would believe not wilfully. The accused is found guilty and sen- 
tenced to pay a fine of Es. 10. In appeal, (^Orenier for respondent) 
affirmed. 



Feb. 28. 



P. C. Batticaloa, 5554. The plaint was as follows : " that the ^xma'k Ordi- 
defendant did, on the 9th January, draw toddy from a palrayrah tree nance, 
standing in the garden of Santiago Kaitan, without license of com- 
plainant, the Renter, in breach of the 39th clause of Ordinance lo- 
ot 1844." The Magistrate held that no licensed retail dealer _/br 
the district having been appointed, the sub-dealer (who was the 
tavern-keeper) had authority to license the defendant, who was ac- 
cordingly acquitted. In appeal, Orenier, for the appellent, contended 
that, in the absence of a district retail dealer, the Ordinance provided 
that the license should be obtained from the Government Agent or 
any person duly authorised by him in writing. [But what right has 
the complainant to issue a permit? — C. J.] Clearly none whatever ; 
but that did not justify the defendant breaking the law. [He is 
charged with not having obtained your license.— C. J.] Ferdinands, 
for the respondent, was not called upon. Per Cpeast, C. J. — Affirmed. 



February 28. 
Present Creasy, C. J. 
P. C. Colombo, 5008. Under a charge for maintenance, the Ma- Maintenance, 
gistrate discharged the defendant, on the ground that he had previ- 
ously been acquitted on the specific ground that the paternity of the 
child had not been established. In appeal, the finding was affirmed ; 
and per Cbeast, C, J. — " The question of paternity has been twice 



Feb. 28 



22 



PART I. 



distinctly raised, and has received two distinct adjudications, 
not like the question of a fresh desertion." 



It: 



Fiscal's Ortii- 
nunce. 



Toll. 



False infor- 
mation. 



P. C. Panadure, 20384. The defendants (eight in number) were 
charg-ed, under clause 23 of Ordinance 4 of 1 867, with having resisted 
and obstructed the complftitiant in the execution of his duty, as a 
Fiscal's officer, -while executing a J. P. warrant. The Magistrate 
held as follows : " I don't believe there has bi'en actual resistance 
and obstruction to the complaiuiint in the execution of his duty;" 
and the accused were accordingly acquitted. In appmd, the judgment 
was set aside and case sent back for further hearing, except as to the 
last defendant whose acquittal was affirmed. And per Creasy, 0. 
J. — " It is not necessary that actual physical force should be used in 
order to cmstitute 'resistance or obstruction,' under the Fiscal's 
Ordinance, clause 23rd. If the Police Magistrate believes that the 
defendants prevented the officer from doing his duty, by meanaces 
and show of violence, (of which there appears to be abundant proof,) 
he ought to find them guilty." 



B. M. Colombo, 8445. The Wellawatte toll-keeper charged the 
defendant with having caused a box 4x2 feet, a bag containing goods 
and two bundles of clothes to be removed from a hackery on one side 
of the toll-bar and loaded in another hackery on the opposite side, 
■without paying toll, in breach of the 19th clause of Ordinance 14 
of 1867. The Bench convicted the accused, holding that it was "a 
clear case of evasion of toll," and fined him Rs. 20. In appeal, (^Kelly 
for the appellant,) the judgment was affirmed ; and per Cbeasv, C. 
J. — " The appellant did not offer to pay the toll as for a loaded 
vehicle, and it is therefore not open to him to raise the point now 
suggested upon the wording of the 19th clause, as to payment of toll 
as for a loaded vehicle. The Supreme Court is strongly of opinion 
that this case might have been dealt with under the concluding part of 
the 1 7th clause, which, after specifying certain acts of evasion of toll, 
directs that ' if any person shall do any other act whatsoever, in order 
to evade or reduce the payment ot any toll, and whereby the same 
shall be evaded or reduced, every such person shall be guilty of an 
ofience, and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five 
pounds.' " 



P. C. Badulla, 16348. The charge in this case was " that the de- 
fendant did, on the 16th day of December, at Badulla, wilfully give 
false information to H. L. Moysey, Esquire, J. P. for Badulla, with 
intent to support a false accusation against complainant and four 
others, in breach of the 166th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1868." In 
appeal, against a conviction, Grenier, for appellant, contended that 



POI.ICK CODKTS. ■ 23 

the plaint was essentially defective in not setting forth the nature of 
the information alleged to be false. The Appellate Court had, he be- 
lieved, repeatedly ruled that defendant should have full notice of 
what the false information was,* The judgment, however, was affirm- 
ed ; the Chief Justice remarking that, as the objection had not been 
taken in the Court below, the defendant no doubt understood the 
nature of the charge against him, and the irregularity could not be 
regarded as having prejudiced any of his substantial rights. 



I Fkb. 



28. 



P. C. Colombo, 5400. The plaint was "that the defendant did,' on Gambling, 
the 29th of December, at Talangame, keep, hold or occupy a house 
for the purpose of common or promiscuous gaming, in breach of the 
19th clause of Ordinance 4 of 1841." The Magistrate C Fisher J held 
as follows : " I do not think the evidence in this case is strong enough 
to warrant a conviction. I think it is necessary to support the charge, 
that more than one specific instance of gaming should be proved, to 
make the accused amenable to the clause of the Ordinance under 
which he is prosecuted. The very essence of the ofience consists in 
the oft repeated acts of gaming in which the public are allowed to 
take part. In place of this evidence, the prosecutor tenders the ru- 
mour which is prevalent in the village and witnesses who speak to hav- 
ing heard the voices of people while gambling in the accused's house. 
One specific instance of gaming is alone proved." In appeal, per 
Ckeast, C. J. — " The judgment and all the proceedings in this case 
are set a&ide, as the Police Court had no jurisdiction to try such a 
charge. This was a prosecution under clause 19 of the Vagrant 
Ordinance (No. 4 of 1841,) which clause is as follows: 'And it is 
further enacted, that all persons who shall keep, hold, occupy or use 
any house or other place, open or enclosed, for the purpose of common 
or promiscuous gaming, playing, or betting at cockfighting, or with 
any table, dice, cards, or other instrument for gaming, at any game 
or pretended game of chance, shall, upon the first conviction thereof, 
suffer imprisonment at hard labor for a period of six months, and shall 
forfeit and pay the sum of five pounds, and shall, upon the second and 
every subsequent conviction, suffer imprisonment at hard labor for a 
period of twelve months, and shall forfeit and pay the sum of ten 
pounds.' The Court that convicts under this clause (even for a first 
offence) must sentence the offender to imprisonment at hard labor 
for six months and also to a fine of five pounds. No other sentence 
would be legal. The Court has no discretion as to the term of im- 
prisonment or as to the amount of fine, and it has no discretion as to 
imposing one only of these modes of punishment. A sentence of 
imprisonment for six months is beyond the power, of the Police Court 
to inflict, and -the case does not come within clause 96 of Ordinance 

' See judgments in P. C. Galagetlara, l42.')3, 3nl March, 1870; P. C. 
Panarlure, 16374, and P C. Colombo, 11689, 30th August, 1870. 



TfiB. 2S, 



■} 



24 PART I.— 

No. 11 of 1868, inasmuch as tbe "Vagrant Ordinance, clause 19, does 
not leave to the discretion of the Court the infliction of both or either 
of the punishments, nor does it make one punishment contingent on 
the non-fulfilment of the other. Under these circumstances, I can- 
not reverse the judgment and order the sentence appointed by law 
to be pronounced by the Police Court, which I certainly should have 
done had it not been for the difiBculty about the jurisdiction. The 
Police Magistrate was right in considering, that the same kind of evi' 
dence, as ti> the place being used for common or promiscuous gaming, 
is necessary under clause 19 as under clause 4, section 4. It may, 
however, be useful to repeat in this judgment, what has often been 
stated from the Bench of the Supreme Court, that, though generally 
necessary, it is not invariably neoessary,-to prove gambling more than 
one time. The gambling on the occasion of the seizure may have 
been such as of itself to prove that the place where it was going on 
was a place ' used tor the purpose of common or promiscuous gam- 
ing.' The instance has been more than once suggested, of a man 
coming to a race-course with a.booth and a roulette table, to which 
any body and every body on the course has free access and ready 
welcome, for the purpose of gambling. It is self-evident that this 
would be common and promiscuous gaming. The Police would do 
their duty by pouncing on the parties at once ; the gambling boolh- 
keeper would be liable to be convicted under the 19th clause, and 
the players would be liable under the 4th clause, section 4 of the 
Vagrant Ordinance. But the reason why I should in this case have 
reversed the judgment (had it not been for the jurisdiction difficulty) 
is, that the Police Magistrate, in giving his judgment, totally over- 
looked the evidence of Abraham Perera, which is clear and distinct 
to his having seen gambling on previous occasions, and which evidence 
was not in the least modified or impaired on cross-examination. If 
it appeared that the Police Magistrate had disbelieved this evidence, 
I should of course have not interfered with his decision on a matter 
of fact ; but where a Police Magistrate forms a judgment in manifest 
forgetfulness of a material part, and a not discredited part, of the 
evidence, an error in law is committed, which the Supreme Court may 
properly correct. There would be fewer faihu-es in prosecutions of 
tavern keepers, who encourage gambling, and of gamblers at taverns 
or in their appurtenances, if proceedings were more frequently taken 
under the 16th clause of the Vagrant Ordinance, which imposes a 
fine of two pounds for the first offence. In prosecutions under the 
16th clause, it is enough to prove gambling on the occasion for which 
the prosecution is instituted. This Court has recently decided in 
Police Court, Kandy, No. 92987 (judgment given in Supreme Court 
on 14th February, 1873) that the 16th clause applies to the persons 
who are playing, betting and gaming, as well as to the keeper of the 
tavern and those acting ur>der him. The great thing to "iiard 



POLICE COCRTS. 25 

againat, in enforcing the clauses against gambling in the Vagrant 
Ordinance, is the unfairness of using this Ordinance to punish a party 
of friends and acquaintances in humble life, who, for once in a way, 
may have a game, into which chance. enters, for moderate stakes, in 
a place not specially prohibited by the Ordinance. They are no more 
to be punished, under the Vagrant law, than a party of persons in higher 
station would be, who have a game at vingt-un or loo in the bungalow 
of one of the party. But gambling, such and under such circum- 
Btances as the Vagrant law clearly forbids, is a very serious offence 
both in itself and on account of the numerous crimes of which it is the 
cause. It is an offence lamentably common in the Island ; and when 
clear proof can be obtained, it ought to be promptly prosecuted and 
sharply corrected." 



Feb. 28. 



P. C. Avisawella, 16368. The complainant, on the first day this Contempt. 
case came on for trial (February 1 8,) stated that he was not ready, 
as his subpoenas had not issued. On an immediate enquiry by the 
Magistrate, it was found that the necessary stamps had not been sup- 
plied by the complainant, who, on being questioned, replied that he 
had meant to say he had no money to supply stamps. He was there- 
upon ordered to give bail, to appear two days after, to shew cause why 
he should not be punished for contempt in having endeavoured to 
mislead the Court. The complainant duly appeared on the 20th, and, 
although all his witnesses, save one, were in attendance, he declined 
to go to trial, alleging that he did not wish the case to be tried by the 
present Magistrate (Jumeaux) against whom he had recently given 
evidence before a Commission of Enquiry. The Magistrate allowed a 
mouth's time, to enable the complainant to apply to the Supreme 
Court for a transfer of his case to some other district, and 
proceeded to adjudicate on the charge for contempt. The complain- 
ant having denied that he made the statements on which the con- 
tempt was founded, the evidence of the Court Interpreter and of a 
Proctor (^Marshall) was received, confirming the record in the ease- 
book ; and he was found guilty and sentenced to fourteen days' im- 
prisonment. In appeal, (Kelly for appellantj the order was affirm- 
ed ; and per Cbeast, C. J. — " I think that in this case a contempt of 
Court was committed in the face of the Court, which the Police 
Magistrate had jurisdiction to punish by sentence of imprisonment." 



P. C. Galle, 83983. The plaint in this case was as follows: Police Orrti- 
•' that the defendants did, on the night of the 11th Februaiy, nance, 
at Galle esplanade, have or use music, so as to disturb the 
repose of inhabitants, in breach of the 90th clause of the Ordinance 
No. 16 of 1865." The Magistrate convicted the defendants and fined 



26 PART I. — 

them each Rs. 10. In appeal, the judgment was set aside and charge 
dismissed ; and per Cebast, C. J. — " The plaint is informal, as not 
following the words of the Ordinance; but the serious objection is, 
that the evidence itself does not establish the commission of any 
offence within the 90th clause of the Ordinance No. 16 of 1865. It 
does not appear that the defendants ' had or used music calculated 
to frighten horses' (see the words of the clause) or that they 'made 
any noise in the night so as to disturb the I'epose of the inhabitants.' 
The averment that the disturbing noise was made ' in the night,' is 
very material in such a charge." 



March 7. 

Present CaEisY, 0. J. 

Receiving P. C. Panadure, 20573. The plaint was as follows: "that the 

stolep pro- defendant had on this day (20th February) two earrings, the proper- 
V^^^y- ty of the complainant, in his possession, knowing the same to be 
stolen." The defendant was acquitted, but it was ordered that the 
earrings be given over to complainant. In appeal, Morgan, for ap- 
pellant, contended that there was sufficient evidence in the case to fix 
the accused with guilty knowledge. The defendant had taken' the 
jewels, the very day after the theft, to a goldsmith (who was called as 
a witness) and had asked him to convert them into studs. This cir- 
cumstance, coupled with the fact that the defendant had not led any 
evidence to show how he had come by the earrings, ought to be taken 
as conclusive of his guilt. Per Ceeast, C. J. — Affirmed. There was 
no need on this plaint to prove that the defendant was the thief. 
He is not properly charged as receiver ; but I should not have set 
aside the proceedings on a mere technicality, if the Police Magistrate 
had convicted the defendant on this evidence. But the sufficiency of 
this evidence, in point of fact, was for the Police Magistrate's 
judgment, and it is not for me to interfere with it." 



March 14. 
Present Creasy, G. J. 

Toll. P- C. Tangalla, 34349. Defendant, who was a toll-keeper, was 

charged, under the 15 th clause of the Toll Ordinance, with having 
improperly demanded and received 12J cents, on account of an " un- 
loaded bullock which passed the toll -station of Sinimodera." The 
Magistrate convicted him, holding that the defendant "would have 
been justified in making the increased demand, had the animal been 
yoked to the cart and lent its strength to the draught." In appeal, it 
was urged by defendant, in his petition, that the established practice 



POLICE COURTS. 27 

had been " that every addititional bull attached to a cart, whether it 
were properly yoked to the shaft or tied behind the cart or led be- 
hind it, was liable to the payment of 1 2 J^ cents." Per Creasj, C. J. — 
" Affirmed. The bullock was not ' additional ' to the pair drawing the 
cart which were paid for, inasmuch as it contributed no additional 
drawing power. There is not even satisfactory proof that it was in 
any way attached to the cajt." 



Mar. 14 



P. C. Balepitimodara, 43719. This was a charge of assault. The New trial. 
Magistrate discharged the accused, holding that the evidence was not 
" satisfactory." In appeal, the judgment was set aside and case sent 
back for farther proceedings ; and per Cbeast, C. J, — " There is 
clear proof of an assault ; there are no material variances in the evi- 
dence given by the witnesses ; and nothing appears against their 
character. The Police Magistrate gives judgment in these words: 
'The evidence is unsatisfactory, accused discharged.' This may 
merely mean that the Police Magistrate is not satisfied as to the 
ownership of the land, about which many questions have been asked. 
But that does not touch the question of assault, unless indeed the 
defendant proves clearly that the land and trees are his, and that 
after due request to the complainant not to trespass, he moved the 
complainant away, using no unnecessary violence. No evidence 
whatever on the part of the defendant has been taken. Unless he 
adduce such evidence as materially shakes the c/omplainant's case 
he ought to be convicted." 



P. C. Colombo, 6229. The defendants, who were described at the VagrantOr- 
trial as " hawkers," " out-door proctors," " brokers to proctors," etc. dinance. 
were found guilty, and fined Rs. 10 each, on the following plaint: 
" that the defendants did, on the 18th of February, 1873, at Colombo 
loaf about the Police Court premises, without any ostensible means 
of subsistence, in breach of clause 3, section 4 of Ordinance 4 of 
1841. In appeal, (Brito for appellants,) per Cbeast, C. J. — "Set 
aside and proceedings declared null and void. The plaint does not, 
in terms of the Ordinance 4 of 1841, clause 3, section 4, charge the 
defendants with ' wandering abroad, or with lodging in any verandah 
&c.'; but it charges them with ' loafing about the Police Court pre- 
mises.' We consider this substitution of American slang for the 
English of the Ordinance to be extremely improper ; and the term 
'loafing,' so far as we understand it, is by no means synonymous with 
either ' wandering abroad ' or ' lodging.' Moreover, the evidence 
in this case does not show that these defendants were persons ' wan- 
dering abroad, ' and it does not show that they were ' lodging ' in any 
' verandah ' or other place mentioned in the Ordinance," 



Mae. 14 1 ^^ ''^^'^ "— 

CofEce P. C. Kandy, 93141. The defendants were convicted of theft and 

Btealing. ^f having received stolen property with guilty knowledge, and sen- 
tenced each to tliree months' hard labor. In appeal, (^Beven for 
appellants) the judgment was affirmed ; and per Creasy, C. J. — 
" The appellants in this case were charged with stealing a bag of coftee 
the property of H. Thompson. They were also charged with havincr 
received the same with guilty knowledge. The appeal is on the evi- 
dence ; and, unless it appears that there was no evidence at all, such 
as should have been left to the jury if the case had been tried before 
judge and jury, no error of law has been committed, and the eonvie- 
tion must be affirmed. The appellants were proved to have been 
taken after dark, on the road near the Peradeniya station, carrying 
this bug of cofltee and another bag. They told the person who took 
them that it was purchased cofiee. Afterwards, they told the Police 
Serjeant 'that they had purchased the cofiee from traders, and when 
asked to point out the sellers, they said they were not near at hand. 
They gave the names of some Moormen. They said that they got 
the coffee from Moormen but the bags from cartmen.' The witness 
adds, 'they told me this when I asked how they got the bags, seeing 
they were branded with names. I asked them to point out the cart- 
men irom whom they got the bags ; they said they would not.' This 
happened on the night of 10th January last. It was further proved by 
Mr. H. Thompson that, about the 22nd December, he had sent 47 
bags of coffee to go by rail to Colombo, the coffee being plantation 
coffee like the coftee produced, and that the bag found on the prison- 
ers bore marks showing to whom it belonged, and also that.it formed 
part of that particular consignment. He stated, on cross-examination, 
that he had received a receipt from Colombo, stating that the consign- 
ment was correct, and that the bags in which the consignment went 
down had been returned in bulk. This is treated, in the petition of 
appeal, as absolute proof that all the coffee and all the bags sent by 
Mr. Thompson had got safe to Colotnbo. It is not to be considered 
as amounting to anything of the kind. In the first place, it is all 
hearsiay evidence ; and, even if that blot be over-looked, it amounts to 
nothing more than that no deficiency or substitution had been detect- 
ed, which is a very different thing from proof that all the very cofiee 
which Mr. Thompson consigned, and all the very bags which he sent, 
had come safely to the proper hands. As Mr. Thompson stated in 
his evidence, ' it is quite possible, that at the Railway store or at our 
store in Peradeniya, the coolies might have exchanged a ba<' ofgood 
coffee for rubbish or indifferent coffee.' There wa.s, therefore, in this 
raie not only evidence, but very strong evidence, such as would have 
been left to a jury." 



roolies. P. C. Matara. 7 1 470. The defendants (59 in number) were char-r- 

dZilaanL"'' "' ^ ^°""''' ■ " ^^) "^"t "'^ defendants Sid, on the Ist of February, 



POLICE COURTS. 29 y^j^j, 14 

at the cofiee estate called Craven Estate, without reasonable cause, 
neglect and refuse to work on the said estate at the usual time, and 
wilfully disobey the ordersof complainant, their employer, and grossly 
neglect their duty, contrary to the 11 th clause of Ordinance 11 of 
I860 ; (2) that the defendants did, on the said 1st of February, at 
the place aforesaid, quit the service of the complainant, without leave 
or previous warning of one month, contrary to the 3rd and 11th clauses 
of the said Ordinance." The complainant, (^Lecocq) while being 
cross-examined, said, " the defendants have been paid their wages in 
part, not in full. They have received their rice weekly. The total 
amount due to them is Rs. 884. This is the balance due after debit- 
ing them with the rice given. They never asked me for their waj;es. 
At the request of the kangany, I did not pay them * * The amount 
of Rs. 884 is the, wages of the defendants for five months ; not their 
full wages, but part of their wages." The Magistrate delivered the 
following judgment: " The defendants left the service of the com- 
plainant on the 1st of February. The complainant states upon oath 
that no notice was given to him as required by the Ordinance. * * 
The evidence does not prove that any application was made for pay- 
ment of the wages due. The complainant supplied the defendants 
with rice weekly, and was ready at any time to pay them what was 
due, but retained the wages at the request of their kangany, and they 
tacitly acquiesced in this arrangement. I have no reason to doubt 
the truthfulness of complainant's statement. The defendants are 
found guilty, and sentenced to be imprisoned at hard labor for two 
months and to have their wages due for one month forfeited." 

Dias, for appellant, would not trouble the Court on the question 
of notice, the Magistrate having found as a matter of fact that no 
notice had been given. But he would draw attention to the passage 
in the petition of appeal, in which it was stated that one plaint had 
been submitted against all the accused, including some 30 men, 12 
boys, and 1 women, (some with infants) with the view of preventing 
one accused frfim giving evidence for another. There was clearly a 
misjoinder of defendants ; and as each could only be held responsible 
for his or her individual acts, it was extremely irregular to have lump- 
ed them up together, to answer jointly to four distinct charges laid 
in one plaint. But apart from the legal objection, lie contended that 
the coolies were justified, under the 21st clause of the Ordinance, in 
leaving, as several months' wages were in arrear, and the only excuse 
for this pleaded by complainant was that the kangany had asked him 
not to pay. 

Ferdinands, for respondent. — The legal objection should have been 
taken before plea. In cases before the Supreme Court, objections of 
this nature were required to be taken before the jury were sworn. 
(Ordinance 12 of 1852, clau.se 19.) No substanlial injustice had been 
done, and the Court would not therefore intcrfci-o. If the Magistrate 



Mar. 14 



30 PART I. 

had gone on with the trial, after the accused had intimated their wish 
to call some of the defendants as witnesses, the proceedings would 
have been irregular. This was a case in which the argumentum ab 
inconvenient! clearly applied. 

Per CuEASY, C. J.— "In this case 69 defendants have been 
charged and convicted together under the Labor Ordinance. The " 
first count of the plaint, charges them all with neglecting and 
refusing to work : the 2nd count charges them all with desertion. 
There are no other counts. The defendants pleaded not guilty. 
At the end of the complainant's case, but not before, their 
Proctor took an objection about misjoinder, not alleging that some of 
the defendants required the. evidence of others, but saying that 'there 
ought to be 59 plaints, one against each cooly.' Evidence was then 
called for the first defendant, about an alleged convei'sation with the 
complainant, during which the first defendant, a kangany, gave notice. 
It did not appear that any of the other defendants were present, or 
took part in this. The complainant had positively denied this 
notice. The Police Magistrate gave judgment in favor of the com- 
plainant, and convicted all the defendants, sentencing them all to the 
same imprisonment and stoppage of wages. The Police Magistrate's 
finding; against the 1st defendant's evidence, and in favor of the com- 
plainant's evidence about the notice, is of course conclusive. No other 
notice was attempted to be proved. There had been no demand of 
wages, so as to let in the defence of wages being in arrear ; and there 
is nothing in the case in favor of the defendants"(who have all ap- 
pealed) except the enormous and certainly inconvenient number of 
accused parties who have been lumped together in this single prosecu- 
tion. Our present Ordinances about Police Court procep.dings con- 
tain nothing, and the older Police Court Ordinances and Rules con- 
tained nothing, aboutjoinder and misjoinder'in Police Court prosecutions. 
If we are 1o follow the analogy of the English Law as to indictments, 
the present would beheld a clear case of misjoinder ; for here several 
persons are jointly charged with breach of duty, the duty as to each 
individual arising out of his own separate contract with the employer, ■ 
and not from anything agreed to by them jointly and in each other's 
behalf. See .Tervis' Archbold's Practice, IGth edition, p. 63, citini; 2 
Hawk. c. 25 s. 89, and other authorities. See also the late Mr. Justice 
Talfourd's edition of Dickinson's Quarter Sessions, page 169. As to 
hnw advantage of this defect is to be takc-n, the English authorities 
. draw distinctions scarcely applicable here ; but they all a:;ree that, 
even where a number of offencps or of offenders are joined in one in- 
dictmi-nt, s(] us lo make the collective trial of them highly inconvenient 
and probably unfair, the Court has power to quash the jndictment. 
The objection of misjoinder taken in this case, though not very for- 
mally at the trial, and more fully in the petition of appeal, is, I believe, 
neiv in our Courts. It is also, f believe. „ novelty to find more than 



POLICE COURTS. 31 f., ,, 

i Mar. 1-1 

silf a hundred accused persons put to trial together on one such 
barge. But it is certain that ever since Police Courts have existed 
I this Island, that is since 1 843, it has been usual to try several de- 
indants together for a joint offence, when they have, by the same 
ransaction and acting in concert with each other, broken duties of 
lie same kind, the breach of which is criminally punishable, even 
bough the duty as to each offender originated in something personal 
B himself. I feel bound to regard this coustant usage of 30 years, as 
stablishing a consuetudinary law allowing such joinder ; subject ne- 
ertheless to the power of the Court to interpose and to amend or ^ 

[uash the proceedings, when it is manifest from the inordinate 
lumber who are jointly accused, or from other circumstances, that to 
ry them in a heap will be inconvenient : and the inconvenience 
fhioh the law regards in these matters, is not as to the interest of the 
)rosecution in obtaining a wholesale conviction, or of the officials in 
retting the work soon over, but it is as to the interest which each 
jrisoner has in securing a full and careful investigation of the case, as it 
effects himself individually ; and in not being deprived of any probable 
peans of defending himself. It is stated in the 1st volume of Thbm- 
ion's Institutes, when speaking of Police Courts, that ' if an improper 
iiumber of persons are made defendants, in order to exclude them as 
(fitnesses, the Magistrate should exclude [that is strike out of the 
plaint] those so made, and allow them to be called as witnesses.' 
K reference is given to Beling and Vanderstraaten's Police Court 
;ases, p. 126. In the present case, the petition of appeal urges that 
the defendants lost the advantage of each other's evidence. But no 
distinct application to strike out names from the plaint, so that spe- 
sified parties might give evidence for specified other accused, was 
made at the trial. Such application ought to be distinctly made and 
jught to be supported by affidavit. Still, the Police Magistrate's 
ittention was to some extent drawn to the objection of misjoinder ; 
and it is obvious that there must be always a great risk of shutting 
out evidence, where a multitude are put on their trial at once. There 
ire other incoriveniences in such a, practife. Here a whole gano- of 
Boolies is charged and tried together. According to the usual state 
of things, there must be among them married women whom the law 
■Jl consider as acting under marital control, and who therefore 
ought to be acquitted. There would also be. children, who mi'ist 
naturally be taken to have trusted their parents about proper notice 
having been given, and who ought to be held innocent, as a matfer 
-)t common sense as well as a matter of law. But no discrimination Ifes 
been exercised ; nor can effective discrimination be possible, if fifties 
md sixties of coolies are thus to be tried in a. lump. I shall not de- 
Sne the exact number that may be joined in one charge. Whatev'er 
number might be fixed on, the old quibbUng objection of the Sorites 
would follow ; — the next highest number would be mentioned; aftd 



Mar. 19 



32 PART 1. 

it would be asked, where was the magical diflereiice between that and 
the number permitted. But I will say that, in my opinion, more than 
ten such accused should seldom be tried together, and more than 
twenty sliould never be. I shall not set aside the proceedings as to 
the 1st defendant, the kangany. His case has been fully investiga- 
ted ; and it is clear that none of the other defendants had anything>to 
do with the notice alleg^ed by him. With regard to the others, I 
shall quash the proceedings. Judgment affirmed with respect to the 
1st defendant. As to the others, the conviction is set aside, and the 
proceedings are delared null and void." 



Ordinance. 



March 1 9. 

Present Cbeast, C. J. 

nTd1n?nr» ^- ^- '^"'^«' 83608. The defendant, who had been legally di- 

vorced from his wife, was convicted, for the third time, of not main- 
taining his children by her, and sentenced, under the 5th clause of 
Ordinance 4 of 1841, to be imprisoned at hard labor for four months 
and to receive fifteen lashes on the buttocks. In appeal, (Dim, 
Grenier with him, for appellant) per Cbeasy, C. J. — " Case sent back 
for the Police Magistrate to re-consider the legality of the sentence, 
and to alter and amend the sentence at his discretion. The Police 
Magistrate has sentenced this man lo be imprisoned at hard labor for 
four months (which is lawful under the Vagrant Ordinance 4 of 
1841, clause 5, and Ordinance 1 1 of 1868, clause 97 ;) and he has also 
sentenced the man to receive fifteen lashes on the buttocks. The 
usual way of flogging convicted prisoners in this Island, is by inflict- 
ing the lashes on the back ; and I strongly incline to think, that to 
inflict the lashes on the buttocks (especially on a full grown man) 
would be a cruel and unusual ' punishment,' such as our Courts, act- 
ing in the spirit enjoined by the Bill of Rights, never ouglit to order. 
If the Police Magistrate, on reflection, adheres to his sentence, I 
will not set it aside without first consulting my colleagues ; but I 
strongly advise him to think it carefully over ; and as the whole 
question of the punishment will be open to him on this review, it 
may be well for him to consider whether the demerits of the case 
may not be better dealt with by ordering the term of hard labor 
and imprisonment already imposed, and by adding to it not lashes, 
but a requirement to give security for good behaviour for a year, 
under clause 6 of the Vagrant Ordinance 4 ot 1841. Such are- 
cognizance will be forfeited, if the man fails to supply proper mainten- 
ance for the children during the yeax\" 



POLICK COURTS. 33 ( ^^^^6 

March 26. 
Present Creasy, C. J. 
P. C. Galle, 84931. The defendant, who was a toll-keeper, was Toll, 
charged, under the 15th clause of Ordinance 14 of 1867, with having 
illegally demanded and received toll on a hackery from an Overseer 
of the Public Works Department. The Magistrate found the accused , 
not guilty in the following judgment : " A novel point has arisen in 
this case, which turns altogether on the construction to be placed on 
the 7th clause of the Toll Ordinance. By that clause ' all persons, 
vehicles, animals or boats employed in the construction or repair of 
any road, etc. shall pass without payment of toll on production of a cer- 
tificate of such employment from the officer superintending the work.' 
Here it is questioned whether the vehicle of the complainant, such 
vehicle being used for the convenience of the complainant and not in 
the construction of the road, is exempted. I am clear that it is not, 
unless a construction other than that the words naturally bear is to be 
placed on them. If complainant were passing a ferry, the certificate 
of employment produced by him would exempt him from the ferry 
toll ; but as he was not liable to toll for passing this road toll, no ex- 
emption is conferred on him. Turning then to the certificate filed, 
it is to be observed that that certificate covers D. C. Jayasurya, but 
does not cover the cart employed in conveying him. It cannot be 
said to be employed in construction, etc. when it simply conveys a 
workman and is neither going nor returning with materials. The 
vehicle then, not having been employed in the construction or 
repair of any road, is not exempt from tolls." In appeal, per Ceeast, 
C. J.— " Judgment of guilty to be entered and defendant to be sen- 
tenced to pay a fine of Es. 10. Persons employed in repairs of roads, 
etc. as mentioned in the 7th clause of the Ordinance, are exempted 
from the toll in respect of the animals and vehicles that take them 
to such work, though the animals and vehicles are not used in the 
work itself." 



P. C. Matale, 3 1 72. The defendant (Mr. Anton) was charged with Assault, 
having, at Appollagolla Estate, on the 21st February, assaulted and 
beaten the complainant and falsely imprisoned him. The following is 
a record of the proceedings at the trial: "Defendant pleads guilty 
of having pushed the complainant into his stable and kept him there 
tied and bound, because he would not hand over a gun belonging to 
Mr. Gray (who died on an estate of which Mr. Anton had charge.) 
The gun was afterwards handed over to the Police, the complainant 
promising to give it over to Mr. Anton if he would let him go. Mr. 
Anton had letters from Murray, Robertson and Co., asking him to 
look after Mr. Gray's property, and simply detained complainant with 
the object of getting hold of Mr. Gray's gun. I think the slight 
detention justifiable, and I cannot fine defendant. Doubtless if he 



) 34 PART I. — 

Mar. 26 ,"- 

had not taken active measures, complainant would have appropriated 
the gun. The case is dismissed.' In appeal, (Beven for appellant) 
per Creasy, C. J. — " There are no grounds for criminal proceedings 
against the defendant." 



Toll. P. C. £^andt/, 93455. The judgment of the Magistrate explains 

the facts : "In this case the complainant, the proprietor of the Matale 
coach, charges the defendant with having, on the 29th January last, 
at Katugastota, demanded and received toll from a passenger 
vehicle, (the Matale coach) the said coach having previously paid 
toll on the morning of the same day on its way from Matale to Kandy, 
in breach of the 15th clause of the Ordinance No. 14 of 1867. In 
view of the fact that the coach had new passengers in it when it pass- 
ed the toll-bar the second time, the Court was inclined to think that 
the taking of the toll might be justified, as complainant benefited by 
such passengers. But on further consideration, it is felt this should 
not affect the question ; and seeing that the great object in all legis- 
lation of this kind is the levying of what is equivalent for the wear 
and tear of the road by the plying of carts or vehicles for the con- 
veyance of goods (which the coach in question is not) rendered des- 
tructive to roads by the heavy loads they generally carry, the Court 
cannot help doubting whether the toll was properly levied. By the 
9th clause, it is only the vehicle that has a different load in it when it 
passes the toll bar a second time on the same day that is required to 
pay toll again, and by the 3rd clause a load is defined as including 
all description of goods, but not passengers who are not required to 
pay toll at all but go free. So that passengers could form no load, 
and therefore whether the coach had any passengers in it or not 
would be quite immaterial. Again, the express mention of a different 
load in the 9th clause and the non-allusion to passengers therein, is 
significant of the fact that passengers do not count. With regard to 
what Was elicited from complainant in his examination as to luggage 
and parcels of passengers, the Court would quote a passage from Mr. 
Justice Thomson's work, page 60. * * The above cfeai-ly shows 
that the carrying of luggage or parcels does not necessarily convert 
a vehicle for passengers (which the coach is) into a vehicle for goods ; ' 
nor does the circumstance that the coach is (in the words of the 
interpretation clause) 'capable of carrying goods and commonly used 
tor such purposes ' render it, as was contended for, liable to the impost. 
The defendant is found guilty and fined Ten Rupees." In appeal, 

the judgment was affirmed; and per Creasy, C. J. -"The Supreme 
Court a^ee" — -'■^ j.t-- -r* i- i.-- . . . _ ^ 

Ordiuance/ 



Court agrees with the Police Magistrate in the construction of" this 

n'Mlliai-irtrt " 



"\> 



r\PRIL 2 



POLICE COURTS. 

April 2. 
Present Creast, 0. J. 
P. C. Colombo, 6790. The 1st defendant was charged with Theft. 
theft and the 2nd with having knowingly received the stolen property. 
The 1st pleaded guilty and was sentenced to three months' hard 
labor. The 2nd accused's house appeared to have been searched and 
some paddy and planks were found. He said he had got the planlts . 
from one Carolis Appoo, who on being called and examined by the 
Court denied having given them to him. No evidence, however, 
having been led to shew that the paddy and planks had been stolen 
from the alleged owner, the Magistrate acquitted the 2nd defendant 
in the following terms : "I cannot convict him before it is proved 
that a theft has been committed." In appeal, by the complainant, 
(Ferdinands for appellant,) per Cbeast C. J. — " Affirmed. The 
confession and the conviction of the thief are not legal evidence 
against the receiver. I cannot take it on myself to overrule the Police 
Magistrate's decision that the other evidence of theft was insufficient, 
though I might myself have come to a different conclusion." 



P. C. Matara, 71564. The defendant was charged, under the 
75th clause of Ordinance 16 of 1865, with having assaulted, resisted 
and obstructed the complainants (-two Police constables) in the 
execution of their duty. The Magistrate (l''empler) found the de- 
fendant guilty and fined him Rs. 100. In appeal, {Dias for appel- 
lant,) the judgment of guilty was affirmed, but the fine reduced to 
Rs. 50.* 



Resisting 
the Police. 



P. C. Hambantota, 6292. The defendants were charged, under 
clause 5 of Ordinance 24 of 1848, with having felled seven Kohambe 
trees on Crown land, whereas the license authorized the felling of 
only five. The defence was ttiat the accused had acted under the 
direction of the holder of the license, (a priest) who however was not 
called but whose version of the story was deposed to by the Modliar 
who was the complainant. The Magistrate (Steele) found the de- 
fendants guilty and fined them Rs. 10 each. In appeal, (Grenier for 
appellant) per Creasy C. J. — " Set aside and proceedings declared 
null and void. The Ordinance 24 of 1848, clause 5, has been repealed . 
by Ordinance 4 of 1 864 ; and the combined effect of clause 2 o4 
this last mentioned Ordinance and Ordinance 11 of 1868, clause 119, 
takes the case out of the jurisdiction of the Police Court, unless the 

• It was held in P. C. Nuwfira Eliya, 8475, that the words " Magis- 
terial Officer "in the 75th clause of the Police Ordinance appKed to a 
Police Magistrate. See Civ, Min., September 5th, 1872, 



Felling 
Timber. 



April 8 



36 PAKT I. — 

Queeii's Advocate's certificate had been obtained. I should have 
probably sent back the case, and given an opportunity for these 
informalities to be set right, but I have grave doubts about the 
merits. Instead of calling the priest to prove that the defendants 
(his servants) did not fell extra trees by his authority, the prosecutor 
gave mere hearsay evidence on the subiect." 



April 8. 

Present Cbeast, C. J. 

Lnhor Or- P. C. Pusselawa, 9219. The defendant (a cangany) was charg- 

diiiivnce. ed, uiifler the 19th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865, with having 

seducpd a cooly who was bound to work under the complainant. The 
gist of the complaint was that the cooly in question had been 
arrested at New Forest Estate, of which complainant (Armstrong) 
was the Superintendent, on a false charge preferred by defendant that 
the cooly had deserted from West Delta. The Magistrate (NevilU) 
held as follows : " The issuing of a warrant for a cooly, without any 
right whatever to cause him to be arrested, is not seduction in itself, 
strictly speaking ; but it is clearly an attempt to seduce, and renders 
the person applying for the warrant mala fide, in order under a simu- 
lanoe of law to misappropriate the services of a man bound to another 
employer, subject to the penalties prescribed. Defendant* is found 
guilty and fined Es. 30. Defeml ant to pay complainant's expenses at 
maximum rate in force." /n op/ieai, the judgment was set aside and 
a verdict of acquittal entered ; and per Cbeasy, C. J. — "Taking a man 
up under warrant without reasonable or probable cause is a highly 
culpa1)le proceeding, but it is neither an act of seduction nor an 
attempt to seduce." 



Eestorinc -f- ^- Matale, 27.50. The defendants were charged with having 

property. stolen some jeweh'y and clothes belonging to complainant and also 

with having received the same with guilty knowledge. The Magis- 
trate ( Zejw/iZe) entered a verdict of acquittal but, believing that the 
property in question belonged to complainant, ordered that it be 
restored to him. In appeal, per Creasy, C. J.—" The order to give 
the property to the complainant is declared null and void. It is only 
the Supreme Court that possesses such power in cases of acquittal. 
See Ordinance 1 1 of 1 868, clauses 49 and 50." 



Evidencfi. -^ • '- Maiurata, 7222. Pour defendants were charged with assault. 

The case went to trial on the 23rd December, 1872, ao-ainst ihe 1st. 
defendant who was found guilty. On the 25th of March 187.) the 



POLICE COUKTS. 



37 



4th defendant was brought up on a warrant, and the Magistrate 
(Hartshorne) proceeded to try him by reading over, in the presence 
of the witnesses, the evidence which had previously been recorded 
and giving him an opportunity of cross-examining them. In appeal, 
by the 4th accused, the judgment was set aside, and case sent back 
for evidence to be regularly taken and for a proper trial ; and per 
Ckeast C. J. — " The course taken here of reading over the old notes, 
instead of taking the evidence of the witne.-.ses ov''er again in a crimin- 
al trial, is precisely that which is strongly censured as improper and 
illegal in the very valuable judgment of the Privy Council in Keg. v. 
Bertrand, Moore's Privy Council Cases, N. S., iv, 380. It is to be 
remembered that the present is a case of actual trial, and not of 
preliminary proceedings before a Justice of the Peace to which these 
remarks would not apply," 



April 8 



P. C. Maiara, 23126. This was an appeal against a conviction 
for Contempt. Per Creast, C. J. — "The order of committal against 
this appellant is set aside. This appellant, in giving his evidence, 
stated that he was not present when the cut was actually inflicted. 
For him, when recalled and asked who cut, to answer ' I do not know,' 
was in my opinion no contempt of Court, and it was no refusal to give 
evidence. The circumstance of another witness having stated that 
this appellant was present when the cut was given, ought not to be 
taken as conclusive against the appellant, so as to fix him with con- 
tempt of Court. I observe also that this appellant was not called on 
to show cause why he should not be committed, which always ought 
to be done, except in extreme cases such as an attempt to assault the 
Judge, or the like." 



Contempt, 



p. C. Oalle, 83608. The judgment in this case (which is reported Corporal 
in page 32) having been reconsidered by the Magisla-ate, the following punishment. 
order was recorded, under date the 29th March, 1873. " This case 
has been sent back to me ' to alter and amend the sentence ' at my 
discretion. The Hon'ble the Supreme Court is disposed to recom- 
mend me not to impose lashes at all, but to pursue the course pre- 
scribed in clause 6. That recommendation, emanating fi-om the 
highest judicial authority in the Island, would receive from me the 
utmost deference, if it were not that the 5th clause oi the Ordinance 
renders the convict liable to imprisonment ' and to corporal punish- 
ment, etc' 'And' being used and not 'or' renders the imposition 
of corporal punishment imperative. I must therefore sentence to 
corporal punishment, but, having a discretion as to the number of 
lashes, I shall only impose one lash. My Lords also incline to the 
opinion that a sentence imposing lashes on the buttocks, and not on 
the back, is illegal, as not being in the spirit enjoined by the Bill of 



April 22 



38 PART I. — 

Rights. A sentence to a like effect has recently been afBrmed .(vide 
P. C. Gallo, No. 84277 ;) and in my experience as an executive officer, 
I have frequently known lashes inflicted on the buttochs, the object 
being, as it was the object of the Court in this case, not to place the 
scars where they were always visible. Acting, however, in strict 
obedience to the wishes of the Appellate Court, the sentence in this 
case will be modified and amended accordingly. The accused is sen- 
tenced tci be imprisoned at hard labor for four months, and to receive 
one lash on the back; and he is required, at the expiry of the aforesaid 
four months, to find security in the sum ofEs. 1500 for his good 
behaviour for one year. The record will now be forwarded, in accord- 
ance with the minute of the Executive Government as to corporal 
punishment, to His Excellency the Governor, with a recommendation 
that the corporal punishment imposed be remitted, in view of the 
opinion of the Hon'ble the Supreme Court." 

In appeal, ( Oreriier for apellant) the judgment was afltened, but 
the sentence was amended by omitting so much of it as ordered the 
defendant to receive one lash ; and per Creasy C. J. — "The Police 
Magistrate states that he ordered this lash under the impression that 
it was compulsory on him to inflict corporal punishment as well as 
imprisonment. But the Supreme Court does not think that such 
compulsion exists. The clause C5 of Ordinance 4 of T841) directs 
that a person convicted under it shall be liable to imprisonment at 
hard labor and to corporal punishment. The clause does not say 
positively that the convicted person ' shall suflfer imprisonment and 
shall sufier corppral punishment.' The Ordinance does use this posi- 
.tive language in clause 19, where it evidently meant to leave the 
Court no discretion as to inflicting both kinds of punishment. But 
in the clause which we are dealing with, the Ordinance merely says 
that the offender shall be liable to imprisonment and to corporal 
punishment. I think that the wo?d ' liable ' may be taken distribu- 
tively, and that it is in the discretion of the Court to enforce that 
liability as to one of the punishments or as to both of them. If the 
words had been ' imprisonment or corporal punishment,' the Court 
could not have inflicted both. But as the clause stands, the Court 
may inflict both or either. The judgment and sentence in this case 
are in all other respects correct, and are fiiUy warranted by the facts, 
and also by the law which is to be found in Ordinance 4 of 1841, 
clauses 3, 4, 5 and 6, and in Ordinance 11 of 1868, clauses 96 and 97." 



Shooting 
dogs. 



April 22. 
Present Creasy, C. J. 
/. C Matale, 29:'5. ' The defendant was charged with having 
unlawfully and maliciously shot and killed the complainant's dog, in 

appeared to 



breach of clause 1 9 of Ordinance 6 of 1846. The do. 



POLICE COURTS. 89 

have been shot while trespassing in the garden of the defendant, On 
whose part, however, no malice was proved. The Magistrate (Temple), 
found the defendant guilty and fined him Rs. 3. In appeal, per 
Creasy, 0. J. — " Set aside. Express malice against the owner is not 
essential ; see clause 26. But I do not think this Ordinance w;is 
meant for the case of a man who shoots a pariah dog, which annoys 
him by infesting his premises. Observe also the 20th clause. No 
wanton cruelty was practised here." 



A.PB1L 22 



P. C. Galle, 84167. This was a prosecution for a breach of Jurisdiction 
the 32nd clause of Ordinance 10 of 1844, for illegally keeping and 
possessing 2 gallons and 2 quarts of arrack. The defendant was 
found guilty and fined Ks. 100. In appeal, the judgment was set 
aside ; and per Creasy, 0. J. — " These proceedings are null and void, 
being beyond the Police Magistrate's jurisdiction." 



P. C. Puttalam, 6166. The charge was " that the defendant did. Pelting 



on the night of the 30th March, 1873, at Tuttalam, pelt stones at the 
complainant's house." The Magistrate (Power) rejected the plaint, 
holding that " if was not a common law offence, nor could it be brought 
under any Ordinance," and referred the complainant, if he had suf- 
fered any damage, to a civil action. In appeal, the judgment was 
affirmed; and per Creasy, C.J. — "If the defendant's conduct airounted 
to any criminal offence, it should have been properly stated in the 
plaint." 



stones. 



P. C. Colombo, 6429. The charge was that the defendants did, Toll, 
on the 28th day of February, 1873, pass the Hendala canal toll sta- 
tion with two loaded pada boats, without paying toll, in breach of 
clause 17 of Ordinance 14 of 1867. The 1st defendant was a con- 
tractor employed by the Public Works Provincial Assistant -to effect 
certain repairs to the retaining wall ef the Hendala canal, and was 
provided with a pass from Mr. Byrne to secure e^jemption from toll. 
He had entered into a sub-contract with the 2nd defendant who, in 
conveying materials for the work, claimed exemption from toll by 
virtue of the pass he had obtained from the contractor. The Magis- 
trate (Fisher) held that " despite the sub-contract, the materials 
being admittedly for the repairs of the canal, the accused have not 
been guilty of any improper and unauthorised conduct in passing the 
toll without payment ," A verdict of acquittal was thereupon recorded, 
and the complainant was condemned to pay the defendants Rs. 10 
as reasonable expenses. In appeal (Kelly for appellantj per Crba.sy 
C. J. — " Affirmed. The decision of the Police Magistrate "was right, 
and it was reasonable to order the expenses of the defendants to be 
paid by the person who wrongfully summoned them." 



A ,„ I 40 PART I. 

April 22 ^ 

Resisting P. C. Randy, ^'ilTl. The charge was laid under the 60th 

therolicc. clause of Ordinance 10 of 1844, in that the defendant did obstruct, 
resist and molest complainant in the execution of his duty as a Police 
officer. The complainant stated in his evidence that he had not his 
imiform on when he went to seize the arrack in respect of which the 
resistance was made, and that he had concealed the fact that he was an 
officer of the Police. The Magistrate (Stewart) dismissed the case, 
holding that to conslitute resistance to a Police officer he should 
show himself as such at the time of resistance, and that, in this in- 
stance, the complainant should have disclosed his official character 
wlieii the seizure was made. In appeal, per Creasy, C. J. — " Affirm- 
ed. The complainant's own words, in which he says ' we purposely 
concealed the fact that we belonged to the Police,' make it impossible 
to convict the defendants of obstructing an officer of Police or Peace 
officer in the execution of a duty imposed on him by Ordinance 10 
of 1844. The defendants could not possibly have the mens rea to 
commit this oiience, in the absence of all knowledge or means of 
knowlei!ge that the person whom he interfered with was a policeman 
in the execution of his duty. This is not to be regarded as a deci- 
sion that a policeman is not under the protection of clause 60 of the 
Ordinance unless he is in uniform. It would be enough if the defend- 
ant had notice, in any shape and by any means, of the official character 
and ftmotion of the person whom he obstructed. It would, for in- 
stance, be enough if the officer told him at the time who and what he 
(the officer) was and what he (the officer) was about to do. But 
here the ofKcer, according to his own statement, altogether concealed 
his official character." 



L.ihnr Or- -P- C. Haldummnlla, 2125. This was a charge, under the Labor 

(linance. Ordinance, against certain coolies for desertion. The Magistrate (Reid) 
held as follows : — "I have read over the evidence of the complainant 
to him, after taking it down, so that there may be no mistake in my 
notes, as the system described by him seems unusual and oppressive. 
'J'he accused is charged with deserting from the service o^ Mr. Pineo 
on Berogalla Estate, without giving notice or without reasonaljle cause ; 
but the only witness called swears distinctly that Mr. Pineo does not 
accept notice from the coolies on this estate. This seems a very 
serious state of affairs and very unreasonable conduct, aa Mr.Pineo must 
have been aware of this when complainant (Davidson) swore the 
affidavit before himself, charging these coolies with this offence against 
himself, and complainant knowing he did Jiot accept notice. Mr.Pineo 
is not present. Again, in the absence of >.. written contract, notice 
should be accepted at any time. Under these circumstances, I think it 
must be a serious matter for coolies to obtin'n leave from t\\v Horo-iiiUa 
Estate. If this accused was in Mr.PiiU'u's si rvice, as stated in (lie plaint 



toOCE COURTS. 41 1 

and in the affidavit, I cannot understand his not receiving notice from 
him. Clause 3 of Ordinance 1 1 of 1865 re(iuires notice from either 
party. I do not see sufficient ground for convicting accused of leaving 
the Estate without notice or reasonable cause, and he is therefore dis- 
charged. This accused and others were brought on a warrant fromNuw- 
ara Eliya. As I understand there are many deserters, and that there 
is difficulty in procuring coolies, I do not decree accused any compen- 
sation, though he is entitled to it. It might have a serious effect on 
others. Complainant, through his Proctor Mr. Keyt, gives notice of 
appeal, so the accused is detained in custody. Mr. Keyt, for com- 
plainant, submits that accused's statement ' I did leave the Estate 
to see my brother and was arrested coming back' is not taken down. 
It is quite true that accused made this statement, after the case for 
prosecution was closed, but I did not think it necessary to take it 
down." 

In appeal, {Brown for appellant) the judgment was affirmed : — 
and per Ckeast, C. J. — " This was a charge, under the Labour Ordi- 
nance 11 of 1865, against the defendant for leaving the service of R. 
E. Pineo, Esq. on Berogalla Coflee Estate, without notice or reasonable 
cause. I consider the Police Magistrate to have found that the fact of 
the defendant having left the Estate without notice has not been 
sufficiently proved : and I might at once affirm the judgment on this 
ground only, as being a decision on a question of fact, but I think it 
desirable to go more fully into the case, inasmuch as the Police Ma- 
gistrate's words as to finding on mere fact are not absolutely unam - 
biguous, and also because there are some strange circumstances in 
the case. I may remark also that the petition of appeal is drawn 
in an unusual style of vehemence, and it is my duty to notice and 
censure the grossly improper and illegal course which has been taken 
of publishing through the press, while the appeal was pending, a 
letter written in a tone of violent partisanship against the judgment 
of the Police Magistrate. The sole witness in the case was the com- 
plainant and appellant, Mr. Davidson, the Superintendent of the 
Estate. I will read his evidence. 

' I am Superintendent of Berogalla Estate. The defendant was 
employed on that Estate as a cooly, and he left in February last. I pro- 
duce my Check Roll, from which it appears this man, Mardun, left 
in February. _ When a man wants to leave the Estnte, he must come 
himself and give his name at the beginning of a month, if he wants to 
l^ave at the end of the month, ^ye accept notice only at the end of 
the month. The coolies know this. If a cooly comes about the middle 
of a month, say the 15th of a month, and gives notice that he wants 
to leave within a month from that date, such notice is not accepted 
until tlie be(;inning of the Jbllowing month. This is the rule so lonir 
as I have been on that Estate. It was the rule made by Mr. Pine:° 
I think. It is 1 he rule Mr. Pineo insists on. If a coolv wants t'l 
leave the Berogalla Estate, he must give notice to me and" not to Mr. 
Pmeo. This man gave me no notice, or else it would be nut down in 
the Check Roll.' ' 



April •22 



Cross-examined by Police Magistrate. — ' I can swear that accu- 
sed did not give me notice, I understand Tamil tolerably well. I 
have been in this covmtry over 15 months. Accused is in my service. 
I am in charge of Berogalla Estate and accused is a Berogalla cooly, 
so I thint he is in my service. I never pay the coolies on that Estate, 
Mr. Pineo pays them. I am under Mr. Pineo : he is my Peria Dora. 
I swore this aiiidavit before Mr. Pineo himself as .T. P., charging these 
coolies with leaving his service. Mr. Pineo pays his coolies once 
in two months or so. Mr. Pineo goes to the Estate, sometimes 
once a week, and sometimes once a month Mr. Pineo does 
not receive notice from the coolies oh the Estate. He tells them 
to come and tell me.' 

Cross-examined by accused. No question ; says ' I am willing 
to return to the Estate.' Complainant adds, ' This cooly met with 
an accident and was sent to Dr. Moss and paid and provided for 
until he got better, and as he is uagrateful I do not wish him to 
come back to the Estate but want him punished-' 

'' Mr.Davidson, in his appeal, asserts that the Police Magistrate was 
in error in making allusion to the 3rd clause of the Ordinance 11 of 
] 865 in his judgment, ' for that had no bearing on the case.' On the 
contrary, the 3rd clause is all in all important for the correct decision 
of the case. The 3rd clause, especially when read in connexion with 
the 4th, shews clearly that a cooly can, at any time and on any day of 
his monthly service, give a valid notice of his intention to leave ' at 
the expiry of a month from the day of giving such notice.' If he 
does not leave before the end of that term of warning, he is not pun- 
ishable under the 11th seotion as a deserter. Mr. Davidson says 
that it is a rule on Berogalla Estate to accept no notice from 
coolies which is not given at the beginning of a month. He also, states 
that Mr. Pineo does not accept notices from coolies on this Estate, 
but that notice must be given to him, Mr. Davidson, the Superinten- 
dent,— although the prisoner is described in these proceedings as 
being in the service of Mr, Pineo, who pays the coolies, who comes 
to the Estate sometimes once a week, and sometimes once a month, 
and of whom Mr. Davidson says,' I am under Mr. Pineo, he is my 
Peria Dora.' The obvious answer to all this code of Berogalla rules.is, that 
Mr. Pineo and Mr. Davidson have no authority to alter the law of the 
land. A notice given to either of them by a cooly, at any period of the 
month, is a good notice, whether Mr. Pineo or Mr. Davidson think fit 
to receive such notice or not. The Police Magistrate had to deter- 
mine, not what Mr. Pineo or Mr. Davidson thought fit to accept, but 
whether it was sufliciently proved before him that the~cooly went 
away without having given a mouth's notice to either Mr. Pineo or 
Mr. Davidson. In dcf.mlt of Mr. Pineo appeiiring to give evi-, 
dence on the subject, though Mr. Pineo was evidently in the neigh- 
bourhood, and though he was evidently aware of the proceedings in- 
asmuch as he had (very improperly) signed the warrant for his own 
servant's, this cooly's, apprehension, the Police Magistrate was quite 
right in holding the evidence insufficient. The complainant, in his peti- 



POTJCF. COURTS. 43 I ^^^^^ 22 

tion of appeal, endeavoura to make up for the defects in the e\ idenoe 
against the prisoner by supposed admissions of the prisoner during 
trial. During the proceedings, the prisoner said ' I am willing to re- 
turn to the Estate.' The appellant somewhat oddly asserts that this 
statement was a taoit admission of guilt. I do not think that it was 
anything of the kind. Finally, the appellant asserts that ' when de- 
fendant was called on to make a statement, he admitted that he left 
the Estate without notice or reasonable cause." To support this as- 
sertion nothing appears on the record, except an entry that the accus- 
ed made this statement ' I did leave the Estate to see my brother 
and was arrested coming back.' There is not a syllable here about 
leaving without notice. The appellant concludes his petition with 
remarks about the importance of upholding the Laborers' Ordinance. 
Unquestionably it ought to be upheld. It is a very salutary enact- 
ment, and was framed with great care and consideration. But it is a 
very different matter to uphold alterations and additions which indivi- 
dual proprietors may think fit to introduce for their own convenience. 
This it is which the Police Magistrate has refused to do in the pre- 
sent case, and in so refiising he has acted quite rightly." 



P. C. Tangalla, 34965. The defendant was charged with hav- Toll, 

ing evaded payment of toll, by driving in a hackery from Tangalla 
to Sinimodera, crossing the toll-station at the latter place on foot, • 
and using another hackery on the other side. In appeal, against a 
conviction, Orenier for appellant quoted the judgment of the Appel- 
late Courtin P. C. Balepitimodera, 28,118,'* and invited attention to 
the evidence (not expressly disbelieved by the Magistrate) of one of 
thewitnesses for the defence, who proved that he had offered a seat in 
his own hackery to the accused, who was jom-neying homewards on 
foot, and that the offer had been accepted. Per Creasy C. J. — " Set 
aside. The Police Magistrate does not state that he disbelieves 
Dines Hamy's evidence, which completely negatives the idea of au 
intent to evade the toll." 

"' Per Curiam — " The defenchmt ia charged with evading the pay- 
ment of Toll, in breach of the I7th clause of the Ordinance No. 22 of 
1861. The evidence shows that the defendant, who is a clerk in the Balle- 
pitty Court, drove his Hackery up to about 10 or 15 fathoms from the toll- 
bar; that there he got down, without paying toll, walked over the bridge to 
the Court House which is close by ; and in the afternoon that he re-cross- 
ed the bridge to the spot where he had left his vehicle and drove Borne. 
The Magistrate was of opinion that the charge was not maintainable, and 
we think the dismissal correct. The tolls imposed by the Ordinance are 
expressly declared , by the 4th clause, ' to be levied in respect of the 
roads, bridges, ferries and canals specified in the schedules A, B, C and 
D,' The bridge at Ballepitty is included in schedule B..But it is admitted 
that the vehicle passed neither bridge nor toll bar, The first portion of 
the 17th clause is inapplicable. The latter part, within the operation of 
which it is sought to bring this charge, enacts ' that if any person shall 
do any other act whatsoever in order to evado the payment ot any toll, 



Falseand fri- P. 0. Oalle,%i\\H. Held that a Magistrate was competent to 
Tolous charge, p^njgjj ^ complainant at the close of the trial for having brought a false 
and frivolous charge, and was not bound to adjourn the adju'lication 
unless special application for time were made. The finding and sen- 
tence Y^ould be sufficiently regular, if the party were formally called 
upon to shew cause. 

May 2. 
Present Stewart, J. 
P. C. Navalapitia, 17943. In this case a Toll Renter had been 
convicted of levying toll on certain Carts conveying muriate of po- 
tash. In appeal {Orenier tor appellant) the Magistrate's judgment 
was affirmed ; and per Stewart, J. — " The muriate of potash was 
being conveyed to be used as, manure for land, and as such is exempt 
from toll. This substance is obtained from burning vegetables, and 
though it contains saline propei'ties, cannot be deemed salt in the 
popular and general signification of that word within the meaning 
of the Ordinance." 



Appeal re- P. C. Galle, 8.^)630. The appeal lodged in this case, was rejected 

jected. in the following terms. " There is no provision in the Rules for the 

Police Courts for allowing an appeal which has been lodged after 

the time prescribed. There is, besides, in the present case a delay 

■ of more than six weeks." 



MayQ. 

Present Stewart, J. 

Labor Or- P. C. Panwilla, 14322. The defendants were charged with having 

dinance. wilfully and knowingly seduced from the service of complainant 

(JMacartney) certain coolies who were bound by contract to serve 

him. In appeal against a conviction, (Brown for appellants) Stewart, 

J. delivered the following judgment which folly sets out the facts of the 

case. — "Affirmed. The defendants are charged with seducing from 

the service of the complainant certain labourers, who were bound by 

contract to serve the complainant, in breach of the 1 9th clause of the 

Ordinance No. 11 of 1865. According to the evidence, the labourers 



and whereby the same shall be evaded, shall be gnilty of an offence.' The 
above provision is similar to that in sec, -11 of 3 Geo 4, c. 1211. In the 
Stntute, however, in addition ti the reslrictions contained in the pri'ceding 
portion of the 17th clause, there is the following passage, ' or shall leave 
upon the said road any horse, cattle, beast or carriage whatsoever, by 
reason whereof the payment of any tolls or duties shall be avoided or les- 
sened' - words not occurring in our Ordinance. Further, the i 9 th clause 
prohibits goods brought upon anj- animal or vehicle to any bridge, &c., 
to be transferred from one side thereof to the opposite. There is no pro- 
vision, however, affecting such an act as the one now complained of, and 
consequently it may fairly be held that the present is a case in Which the 
• rule of construction, expressio unius est exclusio alterius, should be allowed 
to prevail.'" Civ. Min., April 4, 1865. 



POLICE CODRTS. 45 ] j^j^^ jg 

referred to had not actually entered the service of the complainant 
but were on their way to his estate from Kornegalle, when they were 
met by the defendants (who were at the time employed on tlie com- 
plainant's estate) a short distance from their destination and induced 
by them, on false pretences, to take service on another estate in the 
neighbourhood. It appears that on the 29th January two men, 
Sangalingem and Caderwalo, came to the complainant to ' offer labour,' 
i e. they offered to bring coolies to the complainant's estate, and 
asked the complainant an advance of Rs. 120 for thai; purpose. A 
cheque for that amount was given by the complainant, and a receipt 
granted by the men in exchange. But shortly after, it occurring to 
the complainant that there might be some difficulty about his event- 
ually getting the coolies, the cheque was returned to him, he however 
being allowed to retain the receipt. The arrangement did not end here, 
the Kanacapulle (2nd witness) being directed by the complainant to pay 
the two menRs. 30, the complainant promising to return the money after- 
wards. It is proved that this money was paid to the two men through 
the 3rd defendant. Accordingly, the former proceeded to Kornegalle, 
obtained the coolies, gave them advances out of the Rs. 30, engaginor 
them to go to LeangoUa, complainant's estate. On the above facts, 
it has been urged, on behalf of the appellants, that there was no 
binding agreement between the coolies and the complainant, that the 
return of the cheque shows that the complainant withdrew from the 
agreement, and further, even allowing that he still continued a party 
to it, that the contract was incomplete being only executory. It 
appears to the Supreme Court that, though the complainant received 
back the cheque, he did so merely in prudence, and that this does not 
materially a.lter the aspect of the case. That there could have been 
no intention to abandon the agreement is evidenced, not only by the 
complainant's being allowed by the two men to retain their receipt, 
but also by Rs. 30 having been advanced to them on complainant's 
account and for the same purpose, payments out of which money 
are proved to have been made to the coolies for their expenses to 
carry them to LeangoUa. The Ordinance contemplates two kinds 
of contracts— a verbal contract of service under the 3rd clause, and, 
secondly, written contracts under the 7th and 8th clauses. There 
was no written contract in the case ; but, as a verbal contract entered 
into by the coolies with the complainant's agents, it was a good con- 
tract for a monthly service within the meaning of the 3rd clause, 
rendering the coolies who entered into it bound to serve the com- 
plainant." 

May 16. 
Present Stewart, .J. 
P. C. Batticaloa, 5822. The defendant (who had previously been Arrnck 
acquitted in case No. 5554, reported in page 21) was c-liarged " with Oiilinance. 
Laving unlawfully drawn toddy , without having first olitained the permit 



May 16 



46 PART I. — 

required by law, which is an oftence punishable by clauses 39 and 40 
of Ordinance No. 1 of 1 844." The Magistrate ( WortUngton) held a? 
follows: "The Court cannot hold that the license referred to (fi-om 
the tavern-keeper) was sufficient, since the grantor was neither the Go- 
vernment Agent, nor ' some person authorized in writing under his hand 
to grant such pei'mit,' nor • the licensed retail dealer in toddy for the 
(whole) district '; and, therefore, since there is trustworthy evidence 
to prove the drawing of toddy by defendant, a conviction must 
follow. But on considering what punishment is to be imposed, the 
Court is also bound to take into account ■ the fact, also brought out 
to its satisfaction, viz., ttat practically the local retailers of arrack 
and toddy have been recognized, for several years past at least, as the 
persons entitled to issue licenses tor drawing toddy, and that defend- 
ant evidently acted ibonii-fide considering he had a right to draw under 
such a license. Defendant found guilty and fined R 1. In appeal, 
per Stewart, J.—-' Set aside. The 'licensed retail dealer in toddy 
for the district within with such palm shall be situated,' referred to 
in the 39th section of the Ordinance 10 of 1844, must, under the cir- 
cumstances, be taken to be the person licensed to retail toddy under 
the 38th section. Unless this is the retail dealer meant, there is 
no other person connected with the practical working of the Ordi- 
nance to whom the above quoted words would apply. The license 
produced, marked C, is in the form prescribed by the 38th section;, 
and it would also appear that the trees from which toddy was drawn 
are situated in the district and village where the witness Gabriel 
SantiagopuUe has a license to keep a tavern as therein stated and 
to retail toddy. The permit D, under which the defendant drew the 
toddy, is admitted to have been issued by the licensed retail dealer 
Gabriel SantiagopuUe." 



False P- C. Oalle, 84032. The defendant was charged with having 

information, given false information to a Justice of the Peace, with intent to 
support a false accusation. Defendant had instituted a case 15475, 
J. P. Galle, against the complainant and others, for cattle stealing, 
but had subsequently withdrawn it. He was convicted. In appeal, 
Dias, for appellant, submitted that the defendant's knowledge of the 
falsity of the accusation should have been clearly shewn, and that 
complainsint should not have merely relied on the fact of the with- 
drawal as i)r(]ving such knowledge. Per Stewart, J. — "Affirmed." 

Counter cases. P- C Panadiire, 20919. The defendant was charged with assault. 
The iMagistratp ( Morgan)\\c\A as follows : " This is a case of assault 
brought against the Police Serjeant, who, complainant alleges, pushed 
him first into the Police Station and then into the room. On reference 
to thi' casi. No. -20918 of this Court, it will be seen why complainant 
was pushed into tlip .Station house. Defendant is acquitted and 



POLICE COURTS. ^'7 ) j^,j^Y 23 

discharged." Ferdinands, for appellant, submitted that the efiect 
ofthe proceedings in the Police Court had been to give the accused 
the advantage of his own examination on oath, and that it was irregular 
to have put in evidence under the present charge the depositions in 
the counter case.* But Stewart, J. affirmed the judgment, remarking 
that the complainant could not raise such an objection as, when he 
was defendant in the counter case, he had full opportunity of cross- 
examining his adversary's witnesses. 

P. C. Tangalla, 352.39. The question in this case was whether. Toll, 

under the Toll Ordinance of 1867, bullocks which were lied behind 
a cart could be charged for as " additional oxen attached thereto." 
The Magistrate (Campbell) held as follows: '-'The accused (toll- 
renter) is adjudged guilty and fined Rs. 50. It ii clear that the toll- 
keeper was wrong in making the increased demand, because although 
it is admitted that the animals were tied behmd they were not ad- 
ditional and did not contribute to the drawing power through the 
toll. The defendant could only have been justified in maliing the 
demand, had the four bullocks been yoked to the cart at theytime of 
passing through." /k a/ipeaZ, ( Grereier for appellant) per Stewaet, 
J. -" Afiirmed, for the reasons given by the Magistrate." 

P. C. Batticaloa, 58fi6. The defendant was charged under Ordin- Arrack 
ances 10 of 1844 and 8 of 1869 with having (1) sold arrack without a Ordinance, 
license and (2) sold less than one gallon of arrack for Rs. 1,34, con- 
trary to the tenor ofthe license held by two retail-dealers, who were 
his employers. The license itself was not produced at the trial, but 
the Magistrate held that the evidence established that the quantity 
sold was short by one gill, and sentenced the accused to three months' 
hard labor. In appeal, (Bias and Grenier for appellant, Clarence 
for i-espondent,) the judgmeut was set aside and case remanded for 
further hearing ; and per STiiWABT, J.— "There has been no distinct 
findino' upon either of the two counts in the plaint, though it %ould 
appear fi-om the terms of the jiidgment that the intention ot the Ma- 
gistrate was to find the defendant guilty upon the second count. To 
sustain, however, a conviction upon the second count, viz : that the 
defendant sold arrack contrary to the tenor of his license, the 
license itself should have been produced or its absence duly account- 
ed for." 



May 23. 
Present Gbeast, C. J. and Stewabt, J. 
P. C, Newera Eliya, S825. The plaint was " that the defendants Commutation 
did not pay poll-tax for the year 1872, in breach of the 63rd clause Rate, 

ofthe Ordinance No. 10 of 1861." The Magistrate (flartsAorne) 

* A c unter charge by defendant against complainant for being drunk 
and disorderly. 



May 30 



48 PART I. — 

found the accused guilty and sentenced them to six days' imprisonment 
at hard labor. In appeal, {Orenier for appellant) the conviction was 
set aside and case dismissed ; and per Creasy, C. J. — " The plaint does 
not set out any offence under the 63rd or 64th clause of the Ordinance 
referred to, nor is there evidence of any oftence." 



Miiinteiiance. P. C. Battiealoa, 5768. The defendant was charged with not 
maintaining his family. He pleaded a divorce, under the iMohame- 
(lan law, in respect of his alleged liability to support his wife, and 
led evidence ; but the Magistrate ( Worthmgton) held the plea not 
proved and convicted him. In appeal [Orenier for appellant) per 
Stkwaiit, J. — "The judgment of the 31st day of March, 1873, is 
set aside, and altered as to so much thereof as finds the defen- 
dant guilty of not maintaining the complainant. The sentence 
is affirmed as regards the charge against the defendant for not 
maintaining the child. The appeal is only as regards the convic- 
tion of the defendant for not maintaining. the complainant. The Po- 
lice Magistrate seems to have considered (hat the alleged divorce was 
not made out, inasmuch as there was 'an absence of proof of either 
of the delivery of the 3 to Hocks to complainant, as required by the 
Kegulation of 1806, clause 87, or of the knowledge of complainant that 
the 3 toUocks had been written.' The evidence establishes that 3 
tollocks were written and issued at the intervals required by the Mo- 
hamedan Code. One of these notices is not forthcoming, but this is 
immaterial, there being proof of that notice as well as of its subsequent . 
loss. Though there was no actual delivery of the tollocks into the 
hands of the complainant, the evidence shew_s tiiat the Priest went to 
the complainant's house, and that when he began to read out the do- 
cument the complainant ran away. It is manifest that she was awai-e 
of the proceedings that were being taken, and that it was owing to 
herself that the Priest did not more formally communicate the divorce 
to Ler. Another witness says on this point that the complainant 
' concealed herself.' The Magistrate remarks ' it may be true, 
doubtless is so, that the complainant may have become aware of the 
divorce.' Under the circumstances appearing in the evidence, the 
Supreme Court thinks the complainant was legally divorced by the 
defendant." 



May 30. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
Fine reduced. P- ^- Oalle, 84654. The defendant was charged with having 
resist, d and obstructed the complainant (the Deputy Fiscal) in the 
execution of Lis duty, in broach of clause 239 of Ordinance 4 of 1867. 
The MaLristiate (Zee) held the defendant guilty merely of assault and 
fined him Rs. 10. In appeal, ^er Crkasy, C. J. — " Affirmed as to 
judgment of guilty of assault but fine reduced to 50 cents. The 
Police jNfagistrate seems tn us to have rightly held both that the com- 



1 



May 30 



POLICE COUUTs 49 

plainant was not acting in the exeoution of his duty, and that there 
was an assault, inasmuch- as the defendant was clearly not acting in 
defence of his property. But the assault is a mere nominal one, and 
the fine ought therefore to be nominal and not substantial." 

P. C. Galle, 84824. The plaint was as follows : " that the defend- Prisons 
ants, being officers of the Galle prison, did, on the 13 th IMay, fail to Oidiuance. 
exercise a proper vigilance over the prisoners committed to their 
charge, in bleach of Ordinance 18 of 1844, clause 20 ; and that the 
defendants, being officers employed as 'aforesaid, did wilfully neglect 
the rules of such prison in that they did absent themselves from a 
working party of prisoners entrusted to them for custody, on the day 
aforesaid, in breach of the clause of the Ordinance aforesaid." The 
defendants were found guilty, under the first count, and sentenced 
each to one month's hard labor. In appeal, the judgment was affirm- 
ed ; and per Stewart, J. — " Though there were other peons, the 
defendants had no right to leave without permission duly obtained." 



P. C. Kalutara, 48342. A Mohamedan husband was charged with Appeal post- 
not maintaining his wife, a Singhalese woman. The defendant denied poiied on 
the alleged marriage ; but he was convicted and sentenced to fourteen "ttiQavits. 
days' hard labor. In appeal, Kelly, {Grenier with him,) for appellant, 
submitted two affidavits, — one from the defendant impugning the 
Kadutam produced at the trial as a forged document, and another 
from his Proctor {HepponstalV) to the effect that the Jlagistrate had, 
subsequent to his judgment, declined to entertain a charge of forgery 
preferred by the defendant ; that he (the Proctor) had examined the 
defendant's witnesses ; and that, to the best of his knowledge and be- 
lief, his client had a good case. On these affidavits, Counsel requested 
that the Appellate Court might not deal with the finding until the re- 
sult of the proposed J. P. investigation was known. Ferdinands, for 
respondent, urged that the course suggested was unusual ; and that, 
if the defendant had really been taken by surprise, the Supreme Court 
might perhaps have been induced to give him a further hearing. But 
the record shewed that the case had been once postponed, in conse- 
quence of the non-production of the Kadutam in question, and that 
a warrant had issued to the priest in charge of the document. [The 
evidence being legally sufficient, if true, I doubt whether the Supreme 
Court has the' power to remand the case. — C. J.] To allow the de- 
fendant to institute proceedings for forgery against complainant and 
her witnesses, would be giving a convicted defendant an advantao-e 

over a complainant who had proved her case. Per CKEAsr, C. J. 

Let the case stand over for three weeks. The appellant should either 
prove the charge of forgery or stand his trial before the Supreme 
Court for perjury. In the event of his proving his case, we shall 
affirm the Magistrate's finding on facts, as we are bound to do, but the 
Governor may be induced to grant a fi.-ee pardon. 



June 17. j °^ ^^^'^ '"^ 

June 6. 
Present Greasy, C. J. and StewaeT, J, 
Cattle !'■ C. Panwilla, 14330. This was a charge of cattle trespass under 

trespass. the 3rd clause of Ordinance No. 2 of 1835, the complainant claiming 
damages to the amount of Rs. 100. The Magistrate, {Smart) after 
hearing the evidence for the prosecution, struck off the case, holding 
that he had no jurisdiction. In appeal, (Kelly for appellant) the 
judgment was set aside, and defendant adjudged to pay complainant 
Es. 95 as damages; and per Stewart, J. — "The Ordinance No. 5 
of 1849 authorized Police Courts to award any damages and impose 
any fines as fully and efiectually to all intents and purposes as the 
District Courts could or might have had ; and this Ordinance further 
enacts that ' the several District Courts shall cease to have and 
exercise the powers, jurisdiction and authority vested in them by 
the said Ordinance No. 2 of 1S35.' The Pohoe Court has therefore 
jurisdiction to deal with the case. The ownership of the goats is 
established by the complainant, as well as by the Aratchy who proves 
that the defendant claimed the goats. The Es.* 5 paid to Mr. Wylie 
is deducted from the Rs. 100 claimed as damages." 



Gambling. P. C.Kaluiara, iSeSi. The plaint, as filed on the 28th of Febru- 

ary, 1872, charged the defendant with having gambled on the 20th 
November, 1872, in breach of the Vagrant Ordinance. It appeared 
that a previous case had been instituted in time against the defendant, 
but that the prosecution had lapsed for some reason or another ; and 
this circumstance had apparently been considered by the complainant 
as having interrupted Prescription, which was pleaded by the accused 
for the first time in his petition of appeal. In appeal, against a con- 
viction, thejudgment of the Magistrate (Jayetilehe) was set aside, and 
per Creasy, C. J. — " This plaintis bad on the face of it as not instituted 
in proper time." 

June l7. 
Present Creasy, C, J. and Stewart, J. 
Theft. P- C. Galle, 85020. The defendant was. charged with having 

stolen a sum of Es. 25, from the drawer of the Head Clerk's table at 
the Galle Police Station. It was proved that the accused was an office 
orderly ; that he had access to the Clerk's room ; and that, after the 
detection of the theft, a key was found in his haversack which opened 
and shut the drawer in question. The Magistrate {Lee) held as fol- 
lows : " the possession of the key in my opinion fixes the guilt of the 
accused." In appeal, {Grenier for appellant) per Creasy, C. J.— 
" Set aside and judgment of not guilty to be entered. There is such 
a want of evidence in this case, that a judge would not have left it to 
a jury ; and it is therefore competent to the Supreme Court to reverse 
the Police Magistrate's finding," 



POLICE CODETS, 51 



Junk -27 



Jnne 24. < 

Present Creast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
P. C. Colombo, 7263. The defendant was charged with assault. Bail for good 
'i'he Magistrate (Fisher) held as follows. " The accused is acquitted, b^hayiour. 
I disbelieve the case. " Both parties to give bail, in lis. 50 each, to be 
ot good behaviour for three months." In appeal, by the complain- 
ant, the order as to bail was set aside ; and per (jREASif, C. J. — " The 
lo4th clause of Orduiance 11 of lb6!J gives Police Magistrates a 
discretionary power to bind over to keep the peace ' whei'e he shall 
he satistiud that the ends of justice will be suiHciently met ' by such 
a course. That is to say, he may, if he thinks fit, do so in causes 
where he finds that no law has been broken, or that there is reason to 
aj)prehend a breach ot the law ; and he should find expressly that 
such is the case before he proceeds to bind over. But in a matter 
like the present, where he adjudicates that he wholly disbelieves the 
case brought before him, and does not find that there are circum- 
stances which make it proper to bind the parties or either of them 
over to keep the pt- ace, he has no authority in his capacity of Police 
Magistrate to do so." 



June 27. 
Present Creasy, (J. J. and Stewart, J, 
p. C. Kalutara, .48342. On this case (which is reported in page Mainten.itict 
49) being called this day, the Chief Justice delivered the following 
judgment. " Affirmed. This case, as it came before us, was simply 
an appeal as to facts, and in the regular course the judgment of the 
Police Magistrate would at once have been affirmed by us, as being 
one which we have no authority to sot aside. But the facts were 
peculiar. The Police Magistrate had sentenced the appellant to im- 
prisonment with hard labor for 14 days. The defendant had been 
allowed to stand out on bail pending [he appeal, and consequently the 
execution of the sentence was deferred until we should have affirmed 
it. When the case came before us, the appellant put in a positive 
affidavit of his own, supported by another affidavit, that a document, 
pn which the case against him was to a great extent based, was a 
forgery, and that the case against him was got up by means of con- 
spiracy and forgery. He prayed us to pause, so as to give him time 
to institute criminal proceedings against his guilty accusers. Had the 
sentence been one of fine, we should have proceeded to affirm the 
conviction ; inasmuch as compensation can be obtained for having 
had to pay a fine wrongfully. But the actual undergoing of imprison- 
ment and hard labor may be, especially to a man in the defendant's 
rank of life, a permanent stigma and injury, such as no money pay- 
ment can compensate a man for, in the event of his innocence beinc 
demonstrated by his obtaining a conviction of his accusers for forgery 



July 1 



52 PART I. — 

perjury and conspiracy. We therefore directed this Police Court 
appeal to stand over, so as to give the appellant an opportunity of 
bringing before a Justice of the Peace his charges against his accu- 
sers, so as to put them on trial if the Justice of the Peace or the 
Queen's Advocate should think it fitting. His charge has been 
pressed, — his witnesses have been heard before a Justice of the Peace,- 
and the proceedings have been laid before the Crown Officers. It is 
now reported officially to us that the Justice of the Peace disbelieves 
the appellant and his witnesses, and hfis refused to commit the parties 
charged by the appellant ; and also that the Queen's Advocate sees 
no cause to interfere with the decision at which the Justice of the 
Peace has arrived. Under these circumstances, it is our bounden 
duty to dispose at once of the appeal, which we do by affirming the 
judgment of the Police Magistrate as based on full legal evidence." 



July 1. 
Present Creasy, C, J. and Stewart, J. 

Gambling. P. C. Panadure, ^W^l. The defendant was charged, under the 

19th clause of Ordinance No. 4 of 1841, with keeping a house tor the 
purpose of common and promiscuous gaming. The Magistrate 
(^Morgan,) who had the authority of the Queen's Advocate to try the 
case, found the defendant guilty and sentenced him to six weeks' im- 
prisonment at hard labor. In appeal, by complainant, Dias, for 
appellant, contended that the Magistrate wa-s bound to inflict the full 
penalty prescribed for the oiience, as had been held in P. C. Colombo, 
5400, Grenier's Reports, 1873, p. 23. Per Creasy, C. J.—" Affirmed. 
Clause 99 of Ordinance 11 of 1868 is to be read in conjunction with 
clause 95." 



Labor P- C- Kandy, 94293. The defendant was charged, under clause 

Ordinance. 11 of Ordinance 11 of 1865, with having left the service of the com- 
plainant, to whom he was bound under a written contract stipulating 
service for twelve months. The Magistrate {Stewart) held as follows: 
" By the Ordinance every contract or engagement, when the service 
is for a longer period than one month, should not only be in writing 
but should also be sigiied before a Police Magisti-ate or Justice of the 
Peace. This contract was not so signed. Defendant is found not 
guilty." In appeal, per Creasy, C. J. — " Affirmed. The 7th clause 
of the Ordinance distinctly exempts such a servant from the opera- 
tion of the 1 1th clause." 



Labor P. C. Matara, 72024. The plaint was " that the said defendant 

Ordinance, did, on the 7th June, at EUewelle within the jurisdiction of this Court, 

without any reasonable cause, grossly neglect his duty and quit the 

service of the complainant without leave, in breach of the 1 1th clause 



POLICE COURTS. 53 ) j^^^ J 

of Ordinance 11 of 1865." The Magistrate (Jumeaux) found the 
accused guilty and sentenced him to one month's hard labor. In appeal, 
per Creasy, C. J. — "Judgment set aside and judgment of not guilty 
to be entered. The real charge intended in this case is a charge of a 
servant under the Laborer's Ordinance quitting service without leave 
or reasonable cause, and without a proper term of notice to quit hav- 
ing expired. The plaint does not state the defendant to have been 
a servant ; and it says nothing about the want of notice to quit. If 
the evidence had shown a clear case against the defendant on the 
merits, we would not have reversed the judgment for errors of law 
which might have been amended. But to our mind, the evidence 
shows a case of great suspicion and hardship, in which we shall not 
interpose to cure the complainant's legal blunders. It is desirable 
for us to explain that we cannot admit the objection founded on the 
defendant's minority,*' though the fact of his being a mere boy is to be 
considered in other matters, Nothwithstanding the vague assertions 
of two of the witnesses that the defendant knew of the bargain be- 
tween the complainant and the old cangauy, the distinct facts seem to 
show at least a strong probability that the old cangauy sold the boy's 
services to the complainant for the benefit of the old cangany and the 
complainant only. The complainant's claim to detain the boy on 
account of the money paid to the old cangany is monstrous. We 
consider that we are at fuU liberty to review the facts of the case, in 
order- to see if it is one in which we should have sanctioned an 
amendment of the plaint. We should not have sanctioned an amend- 
ment in the present case, and without an amendment the plaint does 
not warrant the judgment," 

P. C. Colombo, 4S61 . This was a charge, under the 166th clause False 

of Ordinance 1 1 of 186b, of having given false information to a Jus- information, 
tice of the Peace. The sole evidence in the case was that of the 
complainants. The Magistrate (Fisher) acquitted the defendant in 
the following terms : " I am inclined to believe that the information 
given to the Justice of the Peace was false, but in the absence of any 
corroborative evidence of the statements of the complainants I acquit 
the accused." In appeal, (Orenier for appellant) per Cebast, C. J. — 
" Set aside and case sent back for further consideration and also for 
further hearing and evidence, if they are thought by the Police Ma- 
gistrate to be desirable. The PoHce Magistrate seems to think that 
evidence corroborative of the complainants' is necessary m point of law- 
No such legal necessity for it exists, but the absence of it may be a 
fair matter for the Police Magistrate to bear in mind when he is con- 
sidering the case as a question of tact. It seems doubtful from the 
record whether the defence has been gone into. If this has not been 

* It was contended in the Pourt below that the accused was a mere boy 
and as such could not enter into, a contract under the Labor Urdinance. 



Jri.Y 8 



54 PART I.— 

done, tlie defendant must of course have an opportunity of belntr 
heard and of his witnesses being examined before any judgment is 
entered against him." 



Maintenance. P- C. Tangalla, 35!i97 . Tliis was a charge against defendant for 
not maintaining his illegitimate child. On the sole evidence of the 
complainant, (the mother) who was believed by the Magistrate, the 
accused was found guilty and fined Rs. 10. In appeal, Grenier, for 
appellant, contended that there was insufficient evidence to go to a 
jury, and that it would be a dangerous precedent to allow a complain- 
ant to father her child on any accused party without some norrobo.. 
rative proof of her statements, Sed per Stewaet, J.— " Affirmed, 
The evidence of the complainant was legally admissible, she not being 
the lawful wife of the accused." 



Jnly 8. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
Cattle ti-cs- p (-1. Gampola, 24577. The defendant was charged, under clause 

P'lss- 4 of Ordinance 2 of 1835, with having allowed two head of cattle 

belonging to him to trespass on a Coffee Estate in charge of com- 
plainant. The cattle had not been seized but merely identified ; and 
there apiieared to have been no a,ssessment of damages as contem- 
plated in the Ordinance. The Magistrate (Penney) found the accused 
guilty and fined him Rs. 10. 7n appeal, Cooke, for the appellant, 
quoted the judgment of the .Appellate Court in P. C. Matale, 23709, 
2 B, 74, which was to the following effect: " the requirements of the 
Ordinance not having been strictly complied with, inasmuch as uo 
notice was given to the principal headman of the village or district, 
and no report made as required by the 3rd clause of the Ordinance 
No. 2 of 1835, the dismissal must be affirmed, but the complainant has 
his civil remedy for damages." This was a similar case, and the con- 
viction must therefore be set aside. [But under the clause specified 
in the plaint, a criminal prosecution for trespass may be maintained 
' whether any damage shall be proved to have been sustained or not.' 
Stewart J.] There was besides no proof that the estate was fenced or 
that by any local custom it did not require to be fenced. [You will 
find a case reported in Lorenz, * in which we held that Coffee Estates 
need not be fenced to entitle the owner to the benefit of the Cattle 
Trespass Ordinance.— C, J.] Per Stewart, J.— Affirmed. 

• P. C. Matale, 11998. Per Curiam — "The Supreme Court is of 
opiniim that the evidence already adduced on this point" ("as to how far 
Coffee Estates are required to be fenced by local custom with reference 
to clause 2 of Ordinance 3 of 1835) " tends to show that Toffee Estates 
do not fall within the class of lands alluded to by the witnesses under. 
the term ' cultivated lands,' which seems to designate a class of lands 
other than Coffee Estates, and shows that according to existing custom 
Coffee Estates are not fenced a« ordinary ground." Ill Lor,, 21 j Civ, 
Min., Feb. 19, 1858, 



POLICE COURTS 



55 



July 15. 
Present Stewaet, J. 
P. C. Mallakam, 1440. The plaint was as follows: "that the 
defendants did unlawfully, wilfully and maliciously prevent, obstruct 
and hinder the complainant from digging up and removing coral 
stones from the Crown land called " Tannyerincham '', for the public 
use, at the direction of the Government Engineer, in breach of Or- 
dinance 10 of 1861, clauses 72 and 83." The complainant was a 
mason in the employ of the public works department, and was engaged 
iu building a house for the sub-collector of Kangasantorre. On his 
proceeding with a number of coolies to quarry coral in a certain land 
which had been pointed out to him as Crown property by an Udeai', 
tlie (lff(?ndants resisted him claiming the land as their own. The 
"^Miijrisirate (Mjfj-ray) having convicted the defendants fined them 
1 ni \\ Ks. 30, In appeal, per Stewart, J. — " Set aside. The 72nd 
Lrn.l 73rd sections of the Ordinance 10 of 1861, under which the de- 
ic'iidants are charged, have reference to materials, etc. taken for mak- 
n^' or r( pairing thoroughfares or buildings, etc. required in connec- 
li'i?! with making and repairing thoroughfares. According to the 
evjilence of the complainant, the coral stones in question were reqxur- 
ed for no such ]inrp<ise, but for the erection of a house for the Sub- 
Collector of KanKasantorre." 



July 17. 
Present Stewaet, J. 
P. C. Kandy, 94852. The defendant was charged with having sold 
or exposed for sale, by retail, arrack in his tavern, cnntrary to the provi- 
ions of the 37th clause of Ordinance 7 of 1873. The Magistrate 
(Stewart) held as follows : — " Defendant's Proctor does not deny the 
fact of sale, but only contends that arrack is not comprehended in the 
words 'intoxicating liquor' used in the Ordinance. The Court 
thinks it is and defendant is fined Rs. 10." Jn appeal, (Ferdinands 
tor appellant) per Stiswart, J.—" The accused is charged with sell- 
iiicr arrack at his tavern after eight o'clock, in breach of the 37th 
clause of the Ordinance 7 of 1873, which enacts that 'all premises, 
' excepting bona fide hotels, in which intoxicating liquor is sold or 
' exposed for sale by retail, shall be closed after the hour of eight 
' at night, &c." By the interpretation clause of the Ordinance, 
arrack ' the produce of the cocoanut palm, is excluded fi-om the 
meaning given to the expression ' intoxicating liquor.' It will also 
be seen, on reference to the 12th, 14th, 15th and several other clauses, 
that where it is intended tliat arrack shall be comprised in any pro- 
hibition, the words ' including such produce as aforesaid' are ex- 
pressly inserted. These words do not occtir in the 37th clause under 
which the charge is laid." 



July 17 



Thorough- 
fares 
Ordinance. 



Licensing 
Ordinance, 



July 22 



56 PART I.- 



Juhj 22. 
Present Stewakt. J. 
BriViinsrthe p. (\ Colomho,%Mi. The plaint was as follows: "that the de- 
Police . fendant did, on the 2nd day of April, 1 873, at Colombo, tender a bribe, 
of Rs. 35 and one silver chain, of the value of Rs. 50, to suppress a 
criminal cliargc." It appeared Irom the evidence that the complain- 
ant (a Police Serjeant) had taken up two persons on suspicioa that 
tliey had stolen some coiiee and had put them in stocks at the Gal- 
kisse Police Station. The present accused thereafter had tendered 
ti.e money and chiiin referred to in tlie charge ; and such tender had 
been regarded as a direcl attempt to bribe. For the defence, it was 
submitted that the intention of the accused was merely to secure the 
release of the prisoners, and that there was noproof whatever thiit the 
Serjeant had been asked to drop the proposed prosecution. The Ma- 
gistrate held that he would take such intention for granted and refused 
to hear evidence to prove it. The defendant was nevertheless con- 
victed. 

/?; o/yea^, GrpHfVr for appellant. [You are not going to support 
the contention iu the petition ot appeal that bribing a pohce officer is 
not a common law offence. — Stewart, J.] The Supreme Court had 
long ago distinctly ruled that it was. — P. C. Uriigala, 2.387, Dec. I, 
1870. In the present case, however, the charge (between which and 
the finding there was a fatal variance) could not be sustained. The 
inouoy and chain had been offered as security for the discharge of t'le 
suspecteil thieves ; and as the complainant had the power under the 
Ordinance to accept bail, the oflT r had been perfectly legitimate. 
[ISutthe Magistr.ite holds that a I'resentwas intended. — Stuwart, J.] 
lie incorrectly assumed that that was our object and refused 
to liear our evidence. It was a matter of frequent occurrence 
in the Fiscal's office that deposiis ot jewelry and other articles were 
made as security fa- the payment of fines and penalties; and such de- 
positors could no more be charged with bribery than the defendant 
1 ould be in,this case. [1 sh<]ul.d like to have an affidavit to shew 
that you had evidence at the trial to indicate that defendantintended 
to offer security and not to tempt the complainant with a gift.— 

^TKWART, J.] 

On reading the affidavit called for, Justice Stewart delivered judg- 
ment as fullovfs : " Set aside and case remanded for further hearing. 
The iMagLstrate's decision is quite right on the facts before him. But 
having regard to the affidavit adduced by the ajjpellant, the case is 
remanded for further hearing in order that the defendant's witnesses 
should be heard. As a general rule the evidence tendered by the 
accused, though in the opinion of the Magistrate not likely to beef any 
avail, should be heard." 



Evidence. ■^" ^' Kahttara, 48993. . The defendunt was charged with having 

sold arrack by retail without a license, in breach of the 26th section 



57 

of Ordinance 10 of 1844. The Magistrate (^Baumgartner) held as 
follows : " Though the evidence is not very satisfactory, especially 
fliat of complainant's second witness, I believe that accused did sell 
the arrack in question. He does not deny that he sold it, nor does 
he make any mention of having a li(tense. He has made no attempt 
to defend himself by summoning witnesses. Accused is found guilty 
and sentenced to pay a fine of five pounds.'' In appeal (^Cooke for 
appellant) per Stewart, J.— " Set aside and remanded for further 
hearing and consideration. Having regard to the affidavit filed by the 
defendant" — (which was to the effect that the summons had been 
served too late to allow of his securing the attendance of his witnesses) 
" aud to the opinion of the Magistrate that the evidence is not very 
satisfactory, the case is remanded for further enquiry, when the ac- 
cused will have another opportunity of adducing his evidence. If the 
Magistrate is not satisfied^with the evidence for the prosecution, the 
accused should have the benefit of any reasonable doubt." 



July 22. 



P. C. BalapiHmodara, 44055. The complainant, who was a process Plaint 
server, complained " that the defendants did, on the 2nd instant at 
Totagamuwa, beat, assault, resist and obstruct the complainant, whilst 
he was in the execution of his duty under the warrant No. 6565, in 
breach of the 83rd clause of Ordinance 10 of 1861." The Magistrate 
(^Halliley) found the accused guilty of assault under the common law 
and sentenced each of them to 3 months' hard labor. In appeal, per 
Stewart, J. — " Affirmed. The plaint might have been amended so a^ 
to contain a distinct charge of assault. As however the plaint ex- 
pressly charges an assault, the defect is not such as could have preju- 
diced the substantial rie-hts of the defendant." 



P. C. Panwila, 14^49. The following judgment of the Magistrate Toll. 

(JPower) explains the issue in the case. " The question in this case 
is, was the defendant as the Toll-keeper at Madawella entitled to de- 
mand Toll froTii complainant on his way from Teldeniya to Panwila. 
The Toll at Madawella is for the road from Katugastotta to Kalibokka 
and there is another Toll from the same road beyond Panwila be- 
tween the 16th and 17th mile posts l[see Schedule B of Ordinance). 
Now the Teldenia Road falls into the Panwila Road on the Panwila 
side of the Toll Station by some few yards. Persons or carts therefore 
do not pass the Bar at Madawella: if coming to Panwila they would 
have to pay Toll doubtless if they proceeded to Kandy, Navellepittia, 
No. 1373, B. & V, page S9, is very much to the point. There it was 
held that as the defendant had turned ofl a road before he came to 
the Toll- Bar at Ginegettena and had not passed the^ Bar, he was not 
liable to pay Toll ; here the complainant has not so much as used any 
portion of the Panwila Road when he is asked for Toll. There is a 



July 29 



! 



58 PART I. 

Toll at Teldeniya tor the upkeep of that road, and there is a Toll at 
the 16th mile post for that portion of Panwila Road between it and 
Madawella. As the complainant then did not pass any Toll-Bar, I 
am of opinion he is not bound to pay the Toll ; and the defendant, in 
demanding it, has acted wrongly. He is only entitled to levy Toll 
on carts &c. travelling on the Katugastotta and Kalibokka road and 
passing through his Bar. The accused is found guilty and fined 
one Rupee." In appeal, per Stewakt, J. — Affirmed. 

July 29. 
Present Stewart, J. 

Arrack P. C. Negombo, 28636. The defendant was chargeil, under clause 

(Irdinance. 26 of Ordinance 10 of 1834, with having established a tavern at An- 
diambalama, whereas his license authorised him to establish one at 
VValpola. The Magistrate (^Dawson) acquitted the accused, on the 
ground that "he had not acted with any guilty intent, but in simple 
error," and condemned the complainant to pay the expenses of the 
defendant and his witnesses. In appeal {Brito for appellant.) per 
Stewart J. — " Set aside and iudgment of guilty to be entered : and it 
is further ordered that the defendant do pay a fine of 5 cents. The 
evidence establishes that the defendant sold arrack at a place not au- 
thorized by hi."! license; and accordingly, it being proved that he infiinged 
the provisions ol the clause of the Ordinance under which the plaint 
is laid, he should hnve been convicted ; but under the circumstances 
only a nominal fine need have been imposed. This case is distinguish- 
able firom the case No. 16940 in Beling and Vanderstraaten, page 160, 
which was that of ' an innocent and unconscious possession ' on the part 
of the person charged. In the present case, which is very different, it 
was the special duty of the defendant to take care that he acted in 
conformity with the requirements of his license. The order ad- 
judging the complainant and appellant to pay the expenses of the de- 
fendant* and witnesses is set aside." 



^, , ,. P. C. Galle, 85082. The defendants were charged with having 

Ubstructini , , „„ , , , , . ,■, i ^\, 

thoroughfares, encroached upon a 1 horoughf are, by making ditches across ttie same, 

in breach of the 9th section, 94th clause of Ordinance 10 of 1861. 
The Magistrate {Lee) held as follows : " I find that defendants cut 
ditches across a footpath ; that such ditches cause no inconvenience 
to foot passengers, though they do to carts ; and that the thorough- 
fare is now a cart road but has not been so for more than 16 years. 

• Held in P. C. Panadure, 16539, that "the Ordinance only authorises 
the Magistrate to award the reasonable expenses of the defendant, and 
where these exceed a small amount, to be awarded for his charges in going 
and returning to his village, evidence should be taken as to their nature 
and amount," Civ Miru, Nov. 3, 1870. 



j:\Jljk\jM^ Kj\JL! tiia. 



59 



August 5. 



Holding, however, that it is essential, prior to conviction, for the pro- 
secution to prove in this case inconvenience to the public in the use 
of this footway, I find the defendants not guilty. In appeal, per 
Stewart, J. — " Affirmed. There is not sufficient evidence to estab- 
lish that the road in question can be regarded otherwise than as a 
footpath. Viewing it as a footpath, no obstruction has been 
proved," 



P. C. Kurunegala, 19778. The defendant was charged with a Labor 
breach of the 3rd, 4th and 14th clauses of Ordinance 11 of 1865. Ordinance. 
The Magistrate ( Livera) held as follows : " The complainant states 
he was discharged without receiving any notice as required by the 
3rd clause, and without being paid an extra month's wages as requir- 
ed by the 4th clause. The two witnesses called by complainant dis- 
tinctly state that no demand was made for the extra month's wages. 
One of them further states ' I was satisfied with what I got, and went 
away.' The petition marked B contains no complaint as to want of 
notice, etc. I am of opinion, therefore, that complainant and his 
coolies left the estate perfectly satisfied with the payment of balance 
wages due to them ; that they did not demand at the time the ex- 
tra month's wage.s, nor did they complain of want of notice. The 
defendant is adjudged to be not guilty." /k a/jpea/, per Stewart J. — 
" Affirmed. According to the evidence, as adduced by both parties, it 
would appear that the complainant left the defendant's service by 
mutual consent."* 



August 5. 
Present Caylet, J. 
"^ P. C- Newera Eliya, 8588. The defendant (a cangany) was Labor 
charged, under the 19tb clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865, with having Onlinance. 
seduced certain coolies from the employ of the prosecutor (^Harper.') 
It appeared that on the complaint of the defendant, — that the coolies 
while under advances to him had been crimped by one of the com- 
plainant's canganies, {Mardasamy) — his employer {Andersmi) who was 
superintendent of a neighbouring estate on which the coolies in ques- 

* The rule as to the exemption of coolies from punishment for desertion, 
on the ground of non-payment of wages, is " to ascertain what was the 
" exact amount due to each conly for the number of days daring which he 
'• worked for the last month before his desertion, and then to ascertain if 
" the amount due, after all deductions, was in excess of this sum. The bal- 
" ance then remaining represented wages due to him before the com- 
" mencement of the month. If such balance exists, the cooly has wages 
" due to him for a period longer than a month, and his case falls within 
" the exemption provided by the 21st clause of Ordinance 1 1 of 1865.'' — 
P. C. Nawalapitija, 16236. Civ. Min., July 5, 1870, 



Adgust 5. 



60 PART I. 

tion were under promise to work, wrote to Harper vepresentinc 
matters ; but the letter was not duly delivered as explained in the 
following evidence of Anderson : " I sent the letter produced on the 
17th August by my cangany, the defendant. He came back with 
the coolies, and said that Mardasamy had told him to take the coolies 
and not show the letter to Mr. Harper. I subsequently sent the letter 
by Mardasamy cangany to Jlr. Harjjer, after the coolies had come to 
me." The Magistrate {^HarUhorne') acquitted the accused on the 
gi'ound that he had acted bona fide, 

/k ajt)/;ea^ (i^MS for appellant) per Catley, J. — "Affirmed. The 
Police INlagistrate has found that the defendant acted under the bona 
fide belief, which was not without foundation, that he was entitled to 
the services of the coolies. With this finding the Supreme Court has 
no power to interfere; and in this view of the case, it is clear that the 
defendant cannot be found guilty of wilfully and knowingly seducing 
the coolies from the service of their alleged employer in terms of the 
19th clause of the Labor Ordinance." 



Timber P. C. Kegalla, 35917. The plaint was " that the defendants did, 

Ordinance, in the month of April 1873, clear the forest land called Korahette 
Hena in Wallyampatthe, (which is presumed to be crown property, the 
same not having been cultivated for the last 50 or 60 years) by cut- 
ting down a number of trees varying from 4 to 14 feet in circum- 
ference, in breach of the 2nd and 5th clauses of Ordinance 24 of 
1848." The defendant had no sannas or grant, but it appeared from 
the evidence that the land had been cultivated once in 1855, and that 
the defendants held a tax receipt for that year. The Magisti'af* 
(^Mainwa?Hng) held that the proof of the laud being private property 
was insufficient and convicted the accused, each of whom he fined 
Rs. 50. 

In appeal, Ferdinands for appellant. — The fact of past cultivation 
and payment of tax rebutted the presumption that tlie property be- 
longed to the Crown and met the requirements of clause 6 of Ordin- 
ance 12 of 1840. The land, which was a Chena, could only be cul- 
tivated at very long intervals, and the District Judge had no authority 
to hold that the words " within 20 years " meant within iO yeai'S 
prior to the date of the Ordinance.* [But supposing that construction 
to be incorrect, would any Civil Court give you judgment on such 
evidence as there was before the Magistrate. The onus was on you 
to prove title — Catley, J.] 

Per Catlet, J. — "Affirmed. By the 12th clause of Ordinance 24 
of ! 848, the burden of proving that the land on which the timber was 
cut was private property wa« thrown upon the defendants, and it ap- 

* But see judgment in appeal in 0. R. Kurunegala, 83. Civ. Min., Aug. 
18, 185.3. A'e//, p. 213. 



POLICE COURTS. 



61 



pears to the Supreme Court that the Police Magistrate was right in 
finding that the defendants failed to prove this." 



Aug. 12. 



P. C. Matara, 71721.* A conviction in this case by the Magistrate Inconsistent 
(Swettenham) was set aside as inconsistent with the plaint, and a ver- nnrting, 
diet of not guilty was entered in the following terms: " The defend- 
ant is charged with stealing and unlawfully receiving a looking glass 
and apiece of soap, the property of the Rev. D. D. Perera, and is 
expressly found guilty of unlawfully receiving a stolen spoon, which 
appears by the evidence to have belonged to Mr. de Silva 
Werekoon." 



August 12. 
Present GArLEi, J. 
P. C. Matara, B. The charge was " that the defendants did, on the 
night of the 30th July, 1873, at Kohonoegamowa, unlawfully and 
maliciously throw two pots of human excrement, whilst the complain, 
ant and his family were engaged with some of their friends in taking 
their meals, contrary to the 19th clause of Ordinance 6 of 1846." 
The plaint having been rejected, the complainant appealed. In appeal, 
per Cayley, J. — "Affirmed. The plaint does not allege that 
the defendants did commit injury or spoil to any real or personal 
property, so as to bring the case within the 19th clause of the Ordi- 
nance No. 6 of 1846. If, as stated in the petition of appeal, the 
excrement was maliciously thrown at or upon the complainant, the 
defendants should be charged with assault." 



Plaint re- 
jected. 



P. C. Oalle, 85009. The defendants were charged with assault 
and theft. The Magistrate (Zee) acquitted the accused, on the Eestitution 
ground that he did not believe the case against them, and ordered °^ property, 
that the property alleged to have been stolen be returned to defen- 
dants. In appial, per Catlet, J. — " Affirmed, except as to the order 
for the restitution of the property. The Police Magistrate has no 
power to make any order as to the restitution of property.'' 



P. C. Maiale, 4444. The Magistrate (Temple) convicted the 
defendant (a Kangany) on the following plaint : " that the defendant 
did, on the— February last, take Rs. 20 from complainant on false pre- 
tences." In appeal, (Orenier for appellent) per Catlei, J.— " Set 
aside and verdict of acquittal entered. The defendant is charged 
with taking Rs. 20 from complainant on false pretences. The 

* See this case reported post, p. 64. 



False pre- 
tences. 



Aug. 19 



■} 



62 PAKT 1. — 

plaint is bad as not stating what the alleged false pretences were.* 
The evidence shows that the defendant was a kangaiiy on complain. 
ant's estate, and that he received the Rs. 20 as an advance to procure 
coolies, and that he failed to procure the coolies. This is not a case 
of obtaining money by false pretences, nor is the evidence sufficient 
to establish a case of fraud at common law. If the case is to be 
treated as one under the 22nd clause of the Ordinance 11 of lb65, it 
is beyond the jurisdiction of the Police Court." 



Registration p. C. Matara, 72054. The defendants were convicted, by the 
of deaths. Magistrate {Jumeaux) under the 18th clause of Ordinance 18 of 1867 
of having " wilfully and unlawfully neglected and failed to give the 
complainant (a Registrar of births, deaths, etc,) information of the 
deaths of their children so as to be registered." In appeal, per 
Catley, J. — " Set aside and case sent back for further hearing and 
adjudication. Defendants are found guilty of not registering the 
deaths of their children, in breach of the 18th clause of Ordinance 18 
of 1867. No death is proved, nor is there any thing in the evidence 
to show any legal liability on the part of the defendants to give in- 
formation of the alleged death to the District Registrar. Strict legal 
proof must be adduced of the requirements set out in the 18th clause 
of the Ordinance in question before the defendants can be found 
guilty." 

Cruelty to P- ^- Pci''i'Wila, 14454. This was an appeal against a conviction 
animals.- by the Magistrate (^Power) under the 1st clause of Ordinance 7 of 
1862. Per Caylet, J. —" Set aside and verdict of acquittal entered. 
The defendant Las been found guilty of torturing a bullock, It ap- 
pears that the animal was trespassing on defendant's chena, when in 
order to drive it off he shot it and wounded it. This is not such a 
case as is contemplated by the Ordinance for the prevention of cruelty 
to animals."")" 



August 19. 
Present Catlky, J. 

Cattle tres- P. C. Matale, 4025. The defendant was charged, under the 3rd 
P*°^- clauseof Ordinance 2 of 1835, with having allowed 5 head of cattle 

• In P. C. Matale, 41495, the proceedings were quashed in appeal, on the 
ground th.it the plaint was bad and defective in that the false pretences 
complained of were not stated. Civ Min., Sept. 15, 1870. 

■f Held that " the general words in Ordinance No_ 7 of 1862, section 1| 
" are restrained by the particular words in the same section, and must be 
" taken to mean only snch acts of cruelty as »ve ejusdem generis with the 
" specified acts.'' P.C. Negombo, 22140 Cii>. Min., December 29, 1870.' 



POLICE COURTS. 63 

to trespass Jn the garden of the complainant, to his damage of Rs 25 . 
The verdict of the Magistrate {Temple) was recorded as follows: 
"Guilty. To pay damages Rs. 25." In appeal, per Oatley, J.— 
" Set aside and a verdict of acquittal entered. Complainant has not 
proved that, within 48 hours from the time of seizure or trespass, he 
gave notice to the nearest constable, police vidahn or local headman ; 
nor has he proved that the damages were assessed in the manner re- 
quired by the 3rd clause of the Ordinance No. 2 of 1835 ; nor has he 
proved either that the garden was fenced or that the local custom 
did not prescribe any fence. Before a defendant can be convicted 
under the Ordinance in question, the requirements of that Ordinance 
must be strictly complied witL." 



Aug. 19. 



P. C. Matara, 72067. The plaint was " that the defendant did, on False infor- 
the 18th October, 1872, at Matara, before W. J. 8. Boake, Esq. .T. P., mation. 
wilfully give false information, with intent to support a false accusa- 
tion against the complainant and others, in the case No. 22906, J. P., 
contrary to the 166th clause of the Ordinance No. 11 of 1868." The 
Magistrate ( Jumeaux ) refused to issue process, holding that the 
charge did not come within the clause quoted, and referred complain- 
ant to a civil action if he had sustained any damage. In appeal, per 
Catlet, J.—" Affirmed. The plaint is defective by reason of its not 
stating the nature of the false information. If the plaint had been 
properly firamed, the Police Magistrate ought to have entertained 
it, and not to have referred complainant to a civil action." 



I'. C. Colombo, 5498. Forty defendants were charged, in one Gambling, 
plaint, under the Ordinance 4 of 1841, in that they did " game, play 
and bet at cockfighting in a garden kept by the 2nd accused for the 
purpose of common and promiscuous gaming." In appeal, by the 
26th and 29th accused, against a conviction, {Brown for the appel- 
lants) per Catlet, J. — " Set aside and verdict of acquittal entered. 
There is no proof that the place where the gambling was going on 
was a public place or one kept or used for the purpose of promiscuous 
gambling. The evidence taken at the trial of the other defendants, at 
which the appellants were not present, cannot be taken as evidence 
against these defendants." 



P. C. Colombo, 8911. This was an appeal against the conviction Licensing 
of the defendants for having behaved in a riotous and disorderly Ordinance, 
manner in a tavern, in breach of clause 21 of Ordinance 7 of 1873. 
Per Caylet, J.—" Set aside and verdict of acquittal entered. The 
appellant is charged with behaving in a riotous and disorderly manner 



Aug. 19 



•} 



64 PAKT I. 

in a tavern, in breach of the 21st clause of Ordinance 7 of 1873. In 
order to convict a defendant of an offence under this clause, it is 
necessary to allege and prove that he was drunk. In the present case, 
there in no evidence that the def ndant was drunk, nor is he charged 
in the plaint with being so." 



A decree -P. C. Matara, 71720. On this case, which is reported in page 61, 

improvide em- being called, the following judgment was delivered by Mr. Justice 
anavit cancell- Cat let.— " In this case the Supreme Court set aside the conviction, on 
Substitution of the ground that the charge laid in the plaint was not proved by the 
complainant, evidence, and that the Police Magistrate had expressly found the 
defendant guilty ot a different charge from that laid in the plaint. 
Before, however, the judgment of the Supreme Oourt was carried into 
effect, by the dibcharge of the prisoner, it was brought to the notice 
of this Court that the officers of the Court below had by mistake 
bound up with these proceedings a plaint which belonged to a 
different charge, also brought against the same defendant and number- 
ed 71721, and h id bound up with the record of the latter case the 
plaint which ought tojjiave been forwarded with this case. The 
mistake in question was partly due to the appellant himself, who 
attached the No. 71721 to his petition of appeal, instead of the 
number of the present case. Under these circumstances, I think that 
the proceedings of the Supreme Court at the first hearing of the appeal 
must be treated as null and void, there being no charge befo,re the 
Court upon which any valid judgment could be pronounced. The 
decree moreover improvide emanamt, and the case, therefore, is open 
to reconsideration. (See Thompson's Institutes, 1, p 199.) There is, 
however, .in my opinion a substantial fault in the proceedings of the 
Court below, in consequence of which I think that the conviction 
should be quashed. The original complainant having left Matara, an- 
other complainant was substituted in his place, on a motion dated 21st 
June, 1873, of which there is no record that defendant had any notice 
or any opportunity of opposing, until the day of trial when his Proctor 
took the objection and moved that the case should be struck off in 
consequence of the absence of the original complainant, in whose 
name the plaint was instituted. The Police Magistrate decided that 
this substitution was legal, on the authority of the case No. 1882, 
Jaffna, (reported in Bfling and Vanderstraaten's Digest, page 178.) 
In that case the Chief Justice expressed great doubts as to the 
power of the Police Magisti-ate to amend a plaint by the substitution 
of a new prosecutor, and his Lordship pointed out how substantially 
important it is for a defendant to know at once who his adversary is ; 
and that the Rules require that the summons, which in the first 



POLICE COURTS. 65 f . ^ 22 

instance is served on defendant, should contain the name and resi- 
dence of the complainant, and that it is useless to give him this 
informatiou if, when he comes before the Magistrate, another com- 
plainant is to be substituted. The Chief Justice thought that these 
errors were not cured by the defendant pleading to the amended 
plaint, and considered for these and other reasons that the conviction 
in the Jaffna case should be quashed. The majority of this Court, 
however, while admitting the irregularities referred to by the Chief 
Justice, thought that they were- cured by the defendant's pleading, to 
the charge without objection. i<'or my own part, I fully concur with 
tlie ouservatious of the Chief Justice relating to the irregularity of 
substituting one uomplaiuant tor another ; but I should have felt 
bound to decide the present case according to the opinion expressed 
by the majority of the Court in the.-Jaiiua case, if the two cases had 
been in all respects parallel. But there is this important difference 
between them. In the present case, belore any evidence was gone 
into the defendant's Procior took the objection that the original com- 
plainant was absent, and that the case, therefore, ought to be struck 
off. The defendant cannot then be said to have waived the objection 
relating to the substitution of a new complainant, as was done in the 
Jaffna case. And it must be remembered that it was in consequence 
of such waiver that the irregularities of the Jaffna case were held by 
a majority of this Court to have been cured. Conviction quashed " 



August 22. 
Present Caylet, J, 
P. C. Matara, 72229. The defendant was convicted by the Carriers' 
Magistrate (Jumemix) and fined B,s. 25, for having used an unlicensed Ordinance, 
hackery for taking passengers for hire, contrary to the terms of 
the 16th clause of Ordinance 14 of 1865. The complainant deposed 
that the defendant had carried passengers in his hackery for hire 
without a license ; while one of the witnesses stated that he had seen 
part of the hire paid, and that defendant had on former occasions 
carried passengers for hire without a license. In appeal, per Caylet, 
J.—" Set aside and verdict of acquittal entered. It is not alleged in 
the plaint, or proved by the evidence, that the hackery in question 
was a public conveyance, in terms of the 6th and 6th clauses of the 
Ordinance 14 of 1865." 



P. C. Jaffna, 2429. The defendants were charged on the 2Cth Appeal 
May, 1863, under clause 17 of Ordinance 6 of 1846, with having on the rejected, 
27th of the previous month unlawfully and maliciously cut and des- 
troyed a dam on complainant's field. On the returnable day of the 



Aug. 26. 



66 PART I. — 

summons, the following order was recorded by 'the Magistrate 
(.l/urraj) — '' The parties agree to settle this case. Issue orders to 
the Police Vidahn and the Odear to restore the dam and to make 
their report." A subsequent order (without a date) appeared on 
record to the following efieot : " Vidahn present. He states that 
complainant failed to accompany him. Complainant is referred to a 
civil action." In appeal, by the complainant against what he termed 
" the order of the 24th June," per Catley, J. — " Appeal rejected. 
There is no order of the Police Magistra'e of the 24th June dismissing 
the charge. The charge had been settled on the 4th June by agree- 
ment of the parties before the Police Magistrate. It must be treated 
as withdrawn. If the appeal is against the order of the 4th June, it 
is out of time." 



appeal. 



P .C. JafTiia, 11002. The complainant had obtained a search 
Deal warrant, on an affidavit charging the defendants with fraud and theft, 

and had caused a certain waggon to be seized in their possession. 
The J. P. case was subsequently dismissed, as also a Police Court 
charge by the same prosecutor against the same accused ; but the 
complainant was allowed to remove the waggon (having given proper 
security) and referred to a civil action. A reasonable time having 
elapsed and the complainant having failed to take any steps in the 
matter, the defendants filed an affidavit reciting all the facts and 
praying that the wag-gon in question might be ordered to be restored 
to them. The Justice of the Peace having refused to make such 
order, the defendants appealed. Per Catley, J. — " Affirmed. No 
appeal lies from an order of the Justice of the Peace such as the one 
complained of." 



August 26. 

Present Cayley, J. 

T . J. ,. PC. Balapitimodara, 44163. The defendants were charged with 

Jurisdiction. ^ , , , , , . ., ■ j j. 

having beaten and assaulted the complainant on the minor road at 

Kurudawatte and robbed her of a bank note of Rs. 10. The Magis- 
trate (^HalUley) disbelieved the case and acquitted the defendants. 
In appeal, the proceedings were quashed on the ground that the 
chiirge of Robbery was beyond the jurisdiction of the Police 

Magistrate. 



Evidence ^- ^- Kalutara, 49266, The plaint was " that the defendant did, 

on the 21st day of July, 1873, assault and beat the complainant with 
hands, and the 2nd defendant tied the complainant by her hands, 
and then the 1st defendant loosened her cloth and took it away with 



POLICE COURTS. 67 / 

\ 

her, leaving the complainant naked." The charg-e appeared to have 
been proved, but the Polioe Magistrate {Baumgartner) acquitted the 
defendants in the following terms : "There seems to have been a 
general quarrel and confusion, and I cannot believe that one party 
is more to blame than another." 

Tn appeal, per Uatley, J. — " Set aside and case sent back for further 
adjudication. There is ample evidence of the assault complained of, 
and this evidence does not appear to have been disbelieved by the 
Polioe Magistrate. He has, however, acquitted the defendants, 
because he considers that both parties were equ illy to blame. There 
is no evidence that the assault was committed in self defence ; nor 
indeed, considering the nature of the outrage, is this view of the case 
possible. The provocation which the defendants are alleged to have 
received may be possibly taken into consideration in awarding the 
punishment ; but the Police Magistrate should also take into consi- 
deration the public breach of the peace, committed by all the parties 
concerned in the disturbance of which the assault formed a part." 



September 5. 
Present Catlet, J. 

P. C. Matale, 2587. This was a charge under the 3rd clause of 
Ordinance 2 of 1835. At the trial, one of the witnesses called for ^.thout plai 
the prosecution having admitted that one of the bullocks that had quas hed- 
trespassed belonged to him, the Magistrate (Temple) recorded the 
foUowino- order : " this witness to be made a defendant. Plea guilty. 
Sentenced to pay damage Ks. 6. 

In appeal, per Catlbt, J.—" Set aside and proceedings declared 
null and void so far as regards the appellant. Two persons were 
charged under the Ordinance 2 of 1835, and at the trial the appel- 
lant was examined as a witness. Having admitted in his evidence 
that the animals which committed the trespass belonged to him, he 
was at once made a defendant and called upon to plead. He 
pleaded guilty and was sentenced to pay Rs. 6. Now, although a 
plea of guilty must be taken in most cases as a waiver of all irregu- 
larities of the proceedings, in the present case thePolica Magistrate 
was not justified in calling upon the appellant to plead at all. There 
was no plaint against him on which any plea could be recorded, nor 
does it appear from the record on what charge he pleaded guilty. A 
plaint is neeessary in every prosecution, and here there was none 
against the appellant, the one filed being against two other persons. 
It should be observed that in any case it is very irregular to tni-n 



Sept. 5. 



b» 



a witness summavily into a defendant, because of some admissions 
made by him wlien giving evidence. In Police Court cases, the 
proper mode is to proceed by summons." 



Conviction in ^- C. Ralpitiya, i\51. This was an appeal, against a conviction 
absence of for assauU, on the ground that the case had been tried by the Magis- 

complainant. trate (Umari) in the absence of the complainant. Per Catlet, J. — 
" Affirmed. No objection was taken in the Court below as to the 
absence of the complainant at the trial, notwithstanding that the 
defendants were represented by a Proctor. Nor is it shewn that the 
irregularity complained of, which was sot up for the first time in 
the petition of appeal, has in any way prejudiced the substantial righte 
of the parties. The Supreme Court thinks, on the authority of the 
case No. 1882, P, C, Jaffna (Beling and Vanderstraaten's Reports, 
p. 178) that the irregularity complained of was waived by the de- 
fendants pleading to the charge without objection." 



Jurisdiction. ^- ^- Avishawella, 16769. The defendant was convicted by the 
Magistrate (Byrde) of having burst open the door of complainant's 
house and attempted to remove a box containing some clothes. 
In appeal {Orenier for appellant) per Catlet, J, — " Set aside and 
proceedings quashed. The case is sent back for the Police Magis- 
trate to proceed against the defendant in the manner prescribed by 
the 103rd clause of Ordinance 11 of 1868. The evidence discloses 
a charge of Burglary which is beyond the jurisdiction of the Police 
Court." 



_ , , P, C. Matale, 4092. This was a charge of cattle trespass under 

Ordinance 2 of 1835. The complainant proved the damages as 
assessed by the local headman, but failed to piove that his land, 
which was described as a " coffee garden," was fenced or did not 
require to be so. In appeal, {^Orenier for appellant) per Catlet, J. 
— "Set aside and verdict of acquittal entered. There is no proof 
that t'le land on which the cattle trespassed was protected by such 
a fence, if any, as the local custom prescribed." 



Timber p. Q. Matara, 71746. The charge, as made on the 17th April, 

Ordmance. -[^-j^^ was that the defendant had, in the month of November, 1872, 

cut timber on crown land without a permit, in breach of the 2nd 



POLICK CODUTS. 



69 



clause of Ordinance 24 of 1 848, The Magistrate (Jumeaux) dismissed 
the case, holding that the prosecution was too late, more than three 
months having elapsed since the date of the alleged offence. Jn ap- 
peal, per Cayley, J.— "Set aside and proceedings declared null and 
void. Under the Ordinance No. 4 of 1864, any person cutting timber 
on Crown land without a license is liable on conviction to such pun- 
ishment by fine or imprisonment as it shall be competent for the 
Court, before which such conviction shall be obtained, to award; and 
under the 119th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1868, the election of the 
Queen's Advocate is required in order to give the Police Court juris- 
diction to try offences so punishable. In the present case there is no 
evidence of such election. Under clause 3 of Ordinance 4 of 1864, 
the offence is not prescribed until two years have elapsed from the 
time of its commission," 



{^ 



Sept. 5. 



P. a. Balapitimodera, 44260. A conviction by the Magistrate 
{RalliLey) on a charge of assault was affirmed in the following terms : 
"The Supreme Court has no power to interfere with the finding of the 
Police Magistrate upon the truth of the evidence, although a perusal 
of the evidence would lead the Court to a different conclusion from 
that arrived at by the Police Magistrate." 



Evidence. 



J. P. Negombo, 8698. This was an appeal against the refusal of 
the Justice of the Peace {Ellis) to bind over the defendants under 
the provisions of clause '221 of Ordinance U of 1868. The facts of 
the ease are set forth in the Supreme Court judgment. {Ferdinands 
for appellant, Grenier for respondent.) Per Catley, J.—" Set' aside 
and case sent back for the Justice of the Peace to require the defendants 
to enter into recognizances to keep the peace, in the manner prescrib- 
ed by the 223rd clause of Ordinance 11 of 1868,— 1st defendant to 
enter into a recognizance for six months in the sum of Rs. 500, with 
two sureties in the sum of Rs. 250 each, and the 2nd and 3rd defen- 
dants to enter > into recognizances for the same period in the sum of 
Ks. 300, with two sureties in the sum of Rs. 150 each. It appears 
from the evidence, which is uncontradicted and which does not appear 
to be disbelieved by the Justice of the Peace, that the defendants with 
a crowd of about a hundred persons, many of whom had bill-hooks 
and mamoties in their hands, and some masquerading in female attire, 
went with tom-toms beating to coraplainanl's estate and cut a [lath 
through one of his fences and, having passed through a portion of the 
estate, cui another gap in the fence higher up. When remonstrated 
with, the first defendant said ' if any one ti-ies to prevent us we will 



Secnrit}' to 

keep the 

peace. 



o n 1 70 PART I.— 

Sept. 9. j- 

strike liim.' Had it not been for tlie pi'udent directions given by 
complainant to bis servants not to interfere by force, it is extremely 
probable that a serious breach of the peace would have ensued. The 
Justice of the Peace has discharged the defendants, on the ground 
that they acited from a desire to assert a riglit of way; that they did 
not use any unnecessary violence; that they refrained from molestiric 
any of complainant's servants ; that they did not come armed or in any 
way prepared for committing a breach of the peace ; that, although 
they came in numbers, it was probably in order to secure themselves 
from assaults; and that they were prepared to resist but, as the event 
proved, in no way inclined to provoke a breach of the peace. The 
Justice of the Peace adds, that they merely asserted a legal right in 
a legal manner. Now there is no evidence whatever of the right of 
way claimed; and it appears to the Supreme Court that, whatever right 
the defendants may have had, they asserted it in a most illegal manner. 
They went in numbers sufRcient to overcome or overpower any re- 
sistance that would be likely to be offered; and by their threats, both 
before and during the occurrence, it is clear that they were prepared to 
resist by force any interference in their illegal proceedings. There is 
also ample evidence, that many of the party carried with them bill- 
hooks and mamoties. The circumstances of the case indeed disclose 
all the elements of a Riot, which is defined to be a tumultuous distur- 
bance of the peace by three persons or more, by assembling together 
of their own authority with an intent mutually to assist one another 
against any one who shall oppose them in the execution of any enter- 
prise of a private nature, and afterwards. actually executing the same 
in a violent and turbulent mauner to the terror of the people, whether 
the act intended were of itself lawful or unlawful. It is difficult to 
conceive any act more likely to occasion a breach of the peace than 
that committed by these defendants; and in view of their conduct, both 
before, duririg and after the occurrence, the complainant is quite jus- 
tified in anticipating a repetition of the outrage." 



Present Cayley, J. 
P. C. Galle, 85757. Mr. Ahamado Bawa, Proctor, was after due 
Bawa's"case. notice called upon to answer to the following charges of Contempt of 
Court: "(1) for having, on the 26th day of July, 1 873, unlawfully, 
knowingly and wilfully filed a fictitious and false plaint, charging certain 
persons, to wit, Charles Ondatjie and others, with theft, and obtained 
an order for summons on such fictitious and false plaint, in contempt 
of Court and in breach of Ordinance No. 11 of 1868, clause 107; (2) 
for having, on the day aforesaid, taken the said plaint into his posses- 



POLICE COURTS. 71 f „ 

< Sept. 9. 

sion and kept it, so as to prevent the issue of summons and thereby Contempt, 
impede the due administration of justice and obstruct and prevent Bawa's c.ise. 
the due execution of the orders of this Court, in contempt of tliis 
Court and in breach of Ordinance No. 11 of 1868, clause 107." 

The facts of the case are fully recited in the following affidavit 
which was submitted by appellant's Counsel at the hearing of the 
appeal: — 

1 Ahamado Bavi'a, Proctor of the Supreme Court of Ceylon, residing at 
Galle, now at Colombo, make oath and say, that .on Saturday, the 
twenty-fifth day of July last, whilst the Police Magistrate of Galle was still 
on the Bench, the Police Court Bar was occupied by myself, Messrs. Advo- 
cate Ondatjie, Proctors J. W. Ludovici, W. M. Austin, James Karoonaratna, 
W. H. Dias, G. L. Jayesekera, and others. A client of mine paid me a fee, 
part of which consisted of a new Five Rupee Note of the Chartered Mercan- 
tile Bank, Kandy. Mr. Charles Ondatjie, who was seated near me, took it 
up and handed it to Mr. W. H. Dias, who sat next to me. He passed it to 
Mr. Karoonaratna, who in his turn handed it to Mr. Jayesekere, who put it 
into his pocket, all in jest. In the same spirit, I took up a sheet of paper, 
and wrote a plaint charging the above-named gentlemen with theft, and 
after shewing the paper to some of them handed the same to Mr. R. L. Van 
Buren, another Proctor, saying in the most jocular manner " I appoint 
you my Proctor." This gentleman, without my consent or knowledge, hand- 
ed the document to the Court Peon, who later submitted it to the Magis- 
trate along with other plaints of the day. The learned Magistrate, without 
enquiring from any of the parties named in the plamt, either from com- 
plamant or accused, all of whom were at the time in the Court, ordered sum- 
mons to issue. When the plaint was brought out from the Magistrate's cham- 
bers by the Peon, Mr. R. L. Van Buren himself took it, and in the midst of 
the confusion and consternation thus created by his mistake, I took it from 
him and, declaring my astonishment and regret, intended to explain the matter 
to the Magistrate at once. At first I thought of submitting a written mo- 
tion, but not wishing to treat the matter so seriously wished to speak to the 
Magistrate personally in his chambers as the most proper and appropriate 
course. Before my doing so, however, the Magistrate left the Court for the 
day. I did not at the time attach much importance to the mistake, in the 
hope that the Magistrate himself would be satisfied that it all originated in 
a joke and the rest was a mistake, and I contented myself with hoping to 
explain the matter on Monday in chambers. For this reason, and not 
being in familiar terms with the Magistrate, I did not wish to detain him 
in the street, where I had met him in the same afternoon, as 1 should 
otherwise have done, if I had known then that the Magistrate would not at- 
tend Court on Monday. Unfortunately on Monday, the Court was taken up 
for repairs by the Public Works Department, and the Magistrate did not at- 
tend again till the following Saturday (the 2nd August) and 1 allowed the 
document to remain in the Court itself, with my other papers contained in an 
unlocked box left in the ' Court in charge of one of its officers, and had no 
access to it till Saturday next. On this day I attended the Court earlier than 
the Magistrate, and taking out the paper from the box was waiting to see 
the Magistrate when that gendeman arrived, and without questioning me at 
all — though he knew 1 was in the Court — commenced to take depositions 
against me in his chambers, and issued a Search Warrant to his clerk to 
search my box. Havmg done so, he came out and in an authoritative man- 
ner ordered me to bring my box and papers into his room. I did so, and was 



■} 



V2! 



Sept. 9 

rontempt. about to address him on the subject of the plaint which I held in my hand, 
Bawa's case, when the Magistrate did not want to hear me and warned me against the 
consequences of any statement, and for the first time informed me that he 
charged rae with " stealing and abstracting a Record " Though I was cer- 
tainly astounded at the gravity of the charpe, involving as it does no less a 
penalty than seven years' transportation or imprisonment at hard labour and 
corporal punishment not exceeding a hundred lashes, yet calmly and temper- 
ately, with the expression of a sincere regret for the accident, I explained all 
about it and offered to prove my statements by the gentlemen concerned. 
Mr. R. L. VanBuren was then called and materially corroborated ray state, 
ments as to how he. got and returned the plaint tome. The Magistrate 
then ordered me to find bail for a thousand Rupees, and would not accept my 
personal Recognizance till I made affidavit cf being possessed of property to 
that amount. Requesting me not to leave the Court, the Magistrate took the 
proceedings to the Deputy Queen's Advocate, and after consultation returned 
in a couple of hours, and for the first time in the course of the proceedings 
asked me if I intended to cross-examine the witnesses examined by him be- 
hind my back. I merely questioned his Interpreter Modliar, to shew by ray 
'conduct how astonished and grieved 1 was at the unfortunate mistake and 
to see that the plaint had been endorsed by the Magistrate and summons 
ordered by him. At this stage the Magistrate told me that I was then 
charged with not stealing and abstracting the Record as before, but with 
concealing it, but under the same enactment and subject to the same 
penalty, and took my formal statement. On the following Monday or 
Tuesday I was asked to give in a list of my witnesses, and I did so. Of 
the names contained in my list 1 had only called two, Mr. Ondatjie and Mr. 
Karoonaratna, (the ist and 3rd accused) when the Justice of the Peace de- 
clared that he did not think further evidence on my part necessary, and dis- 
pensing with it forwarded the proceedings to the Deputy ftueen's Advocate. 
My two witnesses proved, as the rest would have, that the plaint was a joke, 
and that I had not concealed it at all. On the 16th August, the Magistrate 
called upon me to answer certain charges of contempt preferred by him 
(i) for wilfully and knowingly filing a false and fictitious plaint, and {2) with 
taking possession of it, and ordered my attendance before him on the i8th 
August, when I explained the matter as appears on the face of the Record in 
this case No. 83757, Police Court, Galle. 

Sworn to, at Colombo, this 23rd day of August, 1873. 
Before me 
(Signed) S. Grenier, (Signed) Ahamado Bawa. 

J. P. 
The Magistrate {Lee) after hearing the accused's explanation, which 
was in eiieot the same as disclosed above, held as follows : — "The 
Court is willing to accept Mr. Bawa's explanation of the circum- 
stances under which the document was first presented to the Court, 
and is not disinclined to consider that this unhappy aflair commenofid 
in a joke, most improper and indecent, but still a joke. The Court 
is willing to suppose that Mr. L. Van Buren made a mistake, a repre- 
hensible mistake, when he presented the record for the order of tlie 
jNIagistrate. The case, however, assumes a very different complexion 
when the retention of the record is considered. Whether the record 
was or was not intentionally presented to the Magistrate, after it had 



POLICE COURTS. 73 ) „ 

>■ Sept. 9. 

received the Magistrate's orders and been signed by him, it became Contempt, 
a record of the Court, the property of the Court and a solemn proceed- Bawa'a case, 
ing. Mr. Bawa states that he expressed himself sorry, and was so 
astounded that he could not at the first decide what steps to take ; but 
it is clear, from his own admission, that he knew that he should speak 
to the Magistrate, and that from a want of courage, if for no other 
reason, he did not do so, either at the time or when he met the Magis- 
trate in the street; and he did not come to see him or write to him. 
He retained the document in his custody till enquiry was made. 
Had no enquiry been made, the detention of this Court record might 
have continued till now. it is clear from Mr. Bawa's own admissions 
that he kept this case book .to prevent the issue of Summons, to 
prevent, that is, the due and legitimate execution of the oi'ders of the 
Magistrate, who would have rendered him liable to punishment for 
bringing a false and fi-ivolous case. An ollence so grave must of neces- 
sity be visited with punishment proportionate to such gravity; and 
however willingly 1 would spare myself, however willingly 1 would 
spare his brethren, however willingly I would spare the offender him- 
self from the effect of conduct so reprehensible and disgraceful, I have 
a duty cast upon me, the duty of upholding the ma,jesty of the law 
and the dignity of tlie bench. P>om this duty 1 would willingly 
shrink if it were possible. Ahamado Bawa is found gnil ty of contempt 
of Court and sentenced to be imprisoned for seven days. Department- 
ally, Ahamado Bawa will be precluded and prohibited fi-om access 
to the records for three months." 

In appeal, Kelly, for appellant. The Police Court could onl pun- 
ish for contempts committed in facie curia, for the words " to the 
Court" in Ordinance 11 of 1868 had been held not to confer a larger 
jurisdiction than the words "before the Court" in the old Ordinance 
8 of 1846. (Grenier's Reports, 1873, p. 19.) The Magistrate having 
accepted Bawa's explanation as to the filing of the fictitious i]laint, 
the detention of the document, so far from having been disrespectful to 
the judge, had been in vindication- of justice, by the prevention of 
innocent parties being illegally summoned ; while no judicial i-ule or 
departmental order in respect to such documents was proved to have 
been thereby contravened. The learned Counsel then went into the 
facts as disclosed in the affidavit and the record, to show that no con- 
tempt had really been intended. 

Clarence, D. Q. A., for respondent. The fact appeared to be that 
Bawa himself removed the document from the fih' of the Court and 
kept it. Whether or no it was his intention that the plaint should 
be presented to the Magistrate, having in point of fad been iilaccd 
on the file of the (Jourt it was thenceforth a record of Court, and no 
practitioner had any right mere vwtn mo to abstract it. Bawa shouUI 



Sept, 9. 



Y4 PART I. — 



Contempt, have applied to the Magistrate : he had ample opportunity of doin;;so. 
Biiwa's case. a. very dangerous precedent would be established, were this Court 
to hold that a practitioner was at liberty, without tlie sanction of the' 
judge, to remove or' detain a document filed of record. The new 
Ordinance employing the phrase " contempt to the Court " appeared 
expressly to contemplate a wider jurisdiction than that under the old 
enactment, which restricted the jiuisdiction, by the phrase "before the 
Court," to contempts committed in facie curiae. In the decision cited 
by his learned friend, the expression employed was -within "the pre- 
cincts of the Court." The Record Room was within " the precincts 
of the Court " and a most important portion of what lay within those 
precincts. 

Per C.WLEY, J. — ■' The proceedings in this case having been read, 
it is considered and adjudged that the order of the Police Court of 
Galle of the 18th August, 187S, sentencing the appellant to imprison- 
ment, be set aside. In this case the appellant, who is a Proctor of 
the Supreme Court practising at Galle, has been found guilty of 
contempt of Court by the Police Magistrate of that station and his 
been sentenced to imprisonment for seven days. Two charges of 
contempt were prefeiTcd against him. one for having wilfully filed a 
fictitio\is and false plaint-a^ainst certain persons, the other for having 
taken the said plaint into his possession and having ke])t it so as to 
prevent the i^sne of summons and thereby impede the administration 
of justice and obstruct and prevent the due execution of the orders 
of the Court. Ko evidence was taken at the hearing of the charge, 
except the defendant's own statement, which seems to have been 
accepted by the Police i'lagistrate as substantially true. Justice of 
the Peace proceedings had, however, been previously taken against 
Mr. Bawa; and as they were referred to in the argument before this 
Court as well as in an affiiiavit filed by the appellant, I sent for them 
and have read them in connection with this case. It will not be 
necessary to enter fully into the first charge of contempt, viz., that of 
filing a false ami fictitious plaint, for the Police Magistrate has in 
eifect acquitted the appellant on that charge, expressing himself 
willmg to consider that the plaint in question was drawn vip as a joke, 
and that it was by a mistake that it was presented for the order oi 
the Court. The substantial charge, on which the appellant has been 
sentenced, is the charge of having detained the plaint, after it had 
received the order of the Magistrate, with the object of preventing 
the issue of a summons. 'J'lie facts of the case, as gathered from the 
proceediiigs before me and the affidavit of the appellant, are sub- 
stantially these. On Saturday, the i;6th July, the ajipcllant was in 
the Police Court wiih several other ])i'aifitioners. A five rupee note 
which had been paid to the a])pel!ant was in jest taken from the table 



POLICE COURTS. 75 ) 

> Sept, 9. 

and handed about from one Proctor to another, until it came to the Contempt, 
hands of Mr, Jayesekere, who in jest put it into his pocket. The ap- Sana's case. 
pellant then in je.st drew uj) a plaint charging Mr. Jayesekere, two 
other Proctors and an Advocate with theft of the note. The plaint 
was then handed to Mv. H. L, Van Buren, who gave it to the Court 
peon, and it was in the usual com-se presented tu the Magistrate, Tlie 
appellant in his affidavit states that he said to Mr. Van Buren in the 
most jocular manner 'I appoint yon my proctor,' It appears, how- 
ever, from Mr; Van Buren's evidence in the J. P. proceedings, that 
he treated the matter seriously. However this may be, the Police 
Magistrate is apparently satisfied that it was never intended by the 
appellant that the plaint should be presented for the order of the 
Court. Upon the plaint being presented, the Police ^Magistrate, with- 
out making any enquiry from the parties concerned, ordered a 
summons to issue. The plaint then appears to have been placed with 
several papers on the Singhalese Interpreter's tabic, from which it was 
taken up by Mr. Van Buren, from whom it was taken by the appel- 
lant, who put it into his bo.x which he keeps at the Court. There 
appears to have been no secresy about this. The Interpreter, as appears 
from his evidence in the J. P. proceedings, was aware that the ap- 
pellant had taken the paper, and he requested the appellant to give it 
to the Olerk. The appellant, as the Interpreter sta'es, ajjpcared 
very sorry and told him (as he thinks) that it was a joke and that he 
would speak to the Magistrate about it. Unfortunately the appellant 
did not take immediate steps to inform the Police Magistrate. The 
Magistrate thinks that he failed to mention the matter from want of 
courao-e. It appears from the appellant's affidavit and statement, that 
he was so bewildered at the probable result of his foolish- joke, that 
he had not made up his miud what course to pursue, until tlie Magis- 
trate had left the Court, which occurred early, the day being Satm-- 
day. The plaint accordingly remained in the appellant's box, which 
was kept in Court, and, as the appellant states, in charge of a Court 
peon. Unfortunately the Court was closed for repair until the 
followinn- Saturday, (2nd August) and as the appellant states 
he had no access to his box during the interval. On the morn- 
ing of the 2nd August, the Police Magistrate came to his Cham- 
bers and there proceeded to take J. P. proceedings against the 
appellant, on a charge of absti-acting a public record in breach of 
Ordinance 6 of 1846. From the appellant's affidavit, it would appear 
that he came to Court early on the 2nd with the intention of bringing 
the matter to the notice of the Police Magistrate, but that, before he 
had an opportunity of doing so, the Police Magistrate had already 
commenced to take depositions against him in Chambers. These J. 
P. proceedings were resumed on 8th August, after which the criminal 



Sept. 9. 



76 PART I.- 



Contempt, charge appears to have been abandoned, though there is no record 
Bawa s case, ^^lat it has been dismissed. On the 1 8th August the proceedings for 
contempt were instituted. Now, there is an irregularity here which 
should be noticed. It does not appear that the criminal charge had 
been dismissed before the appellant was called upon to explain his 
contempt. The criminal charge and the chai-ge of contempt were in 
effect founded upon precisely the same act; and until the criminal 
charge had been formally dismissed and that dismissal formally re- 
corded, the appellant should not have been called upon to make any 
statement whatever relating to the case, except in the due course of 
the J. P. proceedings. The question, however, which this Court has 
to determine is this, did the act of the appellant inputting the plaint 
into his box, in order to prevent the issue of a summons, and keepinw 
it there for a week while the Court was closed, without bringing the 
matter to the notice of the Police IVl agistrate, amount to a contempt 
of Court under the provisions of the 107th clause of Ordinance 11 of 
1868. The Supreme Court thinks that, although in many cases the 
unauthorised detention of a record would amount to a contempt, un- 
der the peculiar circumstances of the present case, if did not. In 
the first place, it is clear that no contempt was intended. A foolish 
joke had been perpetrated by the appellant and in consequence of the 
mistake of Mr. Van Buren, (which the Police Magistrate rightly char- 
acterises as a reprehensible mistake) the joke was likely to be follow- 
ed by serious consequences which were never intended; and though 
he acted improperly as well as foolishly in not at once mentioning the 
matter to the Police Magistrate, he can hardly be considered as guilty 
of contempt of Court in endeavouring to prevent what might other- 
wise have led to a more serious contempt, namely the putting in mo- 
tion of the process of the Court and carrying on a prosecution upon 
an entirely fictitious plaint, which had been prepared as a jest and 
presented to the Court by a mistake. Plaving failed to bring the mat- 
ter before the Police Magistrate at once, he ought, no doubt, to have 
taken the first opportunity of writing to that officer, although the 
Court was not sitting; and, by neglecting to do this, he has, in my 
opinion, laid himself open to much blame. This Court does not think, 
however, that his failure to write or call upon the Magistrate at his 
house, notwithstanding that such was the appellant's duty, can be 
construed into a contempt of Court. The Police Magistrate states 
that appellant retained the document in his custody till enquiry was 
made, and that no enquiry being made the detention of the Court 
record might have been continued to the present time. This, how- 
ever, appears to the Supreme Coiu't to be by no means certain ; for 
the appellant had no opportunity of bringing the matter to the notice 
of the Police Magistrate at the Court, after the first day, until the 



POLICE COURTS. 77 1 

j- Sept. 9, 
J. P. proceedings were commenced, for during the interval the Contempt- 
Magistrate did not sit, and these J. P. proceedings were commenced Bawa's case, 
by him in Chambers before he took his seat on the Bench, on the 
first day that the Court was reopened for business. The appellant 
himself in his affidavit swears that he attended the Court earlier that 
day than the Magistrate, and that, having taken the papers in ques- 
tion from his box, he was waiting to see the Magistrate, when the 
latter commenced taking depositions against him in Chambers. The 
fact that the Interpreter was aware that Mr. Bawa had taken the 
plaint, and the fact that he had been informed by Mr. Bawa that the 
affair was a joke, and that Mr. Bawa had declared to him his inten- 
tion of speaking to the Police Magistrate, lead this Court to give cre- 
dit to the appellant's affidavit, that it was his intention to bring the 
matter to the notice of the Magistrate, as soon as the Court resumed 
its sitting. Under all the circumstances of the cise, this Court 
does not think that a contempt of Court, such as is punish- 
able under the 107th clause of Ordinance II of 1868, has 
been committed. Under that clause, a Police Magistrate 
has no power to punish for contempt, unless the person chafged 
shall fail by his answers, when called upon for lug explanation, to 
satisfy the Court that no contempt was intended; and in this case 
this 00111*1 thinks that none was intended. The original joke, which 
gave lise to the unfortunate proceedings, was a foolish one and one 
unbecoming the professional character of the parties concerned ; and 
the mistake of Jlr. Van Biiren, in causing the fictitious plaint to be 
presented to the Magistrate, was certainly reprehensible. Indeed, it 
is difficult to understand how he could have thought the appellant to 
have been in earnest. This Court thinks, however, that the Police 
Magistrate would have displayed a wise discretion, if before issuing 
summons on the plaint he had, in pursuance of the course authorized 
by the 3rd clause of the Ordinance 18 of 1871 briefly examined the 
complainant. The plaint purported to be a charge of theft preferred 
by a Proctor of this Court against an Advocate and three other Proc- 
tors, all of whom were in Court at the time. In the case of a charge 
of this extraordinary kind, it would certainly have been expedient, 
before it was acted upon, that some brief enquiry should be made. 
Had this been done, none of these proceedings would have ensued. 
Ill should be observed that when a contempt of Court has been com- 
mitted through ignorance, inadvertance or mistaken motives, and has 
been promptly acknowledged, the dignity and authority of the Court 
is generally sufficiently vindicated by an admonition. It is only in 
extreme cases of manifest disrespect or disobedience that it should 
be Tisited with so severe a punishment as that to which the appel- 



Sept. 12. 



78 PART t. — 

lant lias been sentenfted ; for to send a Proctor of 15 years' standing 
in the profession to iail, even for seven days, is a very severe punish- 
ment. The Supreme Court wishes to observe that this judgment is 
not to be taken as any authority that the unauthorized removal or 
detention of a record may not be a contempt of Court. This Conrt 
thinks that in many instances it might be a very grave contempt in- 
deed. The present case is decided upon its own peculiar circum- 
stances, and the facts disclosed do, not appear to the iSupreme Court 
to establish such an intentional contempt of Court as is punishable 
under the Ordinance in question." 



September 12. 

Present Catlet, J. 

Labor -P- ^- ^i^tole, 3862. Seventeen coolies were charged on the 

Ordiimncc. following plaint : " that the defendants did, on the night of the 15th 
instant, leave the complainant's (Keane'e) sei'vice without notice, in 
breach of the 11th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865." The accused 
appeared to have left complainant's estate on the 15th May, after 
having given the following written notice to him on the 12th : "we give 
you notice that we will leave your service on the 15th instant, as you 
have not paid us for the last three mouths." The receipt of this 
notice was admitted, as also the fact ttat arrears of wages were due ; 
but it was explained by the m^inager ( Wilkinson) that when he sent 
Keane in May to pay Febrnai-y's wages, the defendants refused to 
receive the money on the gronnd that their Kaugany had been dis- 
charged. On the day of trial, twelve of the defendants were present; 
and on their behalf Mr. Prootor Tillekeratne submitted a mo. 
tion " that the 2nd and 4th defendants be admitted as witnesses 
for the defence, theii' evidence being material," The motion, how- 
ever, having been disallowed, the Magistrate (Temple) after hearing 
evidence found the defendants guilty and sentenced them to one 
month's hard labor each. In appeal, per Caylky, J. — " Affirmed, 
The defendants made no demand for their wages, as required by the 
21st clause of the Ordinance 11 of 1865, so that the non-payment of 
such wages did not excuse them from the necessity of giving one 
month's notice to quit service. It is inexpedient, as a general rule, to 
put more than 10 persons on their trial at the same time in cases of 
this kind. But it does, not appear that the evidence of the 2nd and 
4tli defendants would have in any way exculpated the others. What 
they had to prove was not mL^ntioned in the Court below, nor is there 
any affidavit filed with the petition of appeal." 



POLICE COURTS. 79 



Sui-T. 19. 



September 19. 
Present Stewaet, J. 
P. C. Matara, 71598. This was a charge of false uiformation _ False 
under the 166th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1 868. Without entering information, 
into evidence, the Magistrate {Juraeaux) made the following order : 
"This case is beyond the jurisdiciioii ot the Police Court. Com- 
plainant and her witnesses were duly sworn or affirmed, and gave 
their evidence before the Justice of the Peace in favor of the accused. 
If any charge lies, it is certainly one of perjury." In appeal, per 
Stewart, J, — " Set aside and case remanded for hearing. If the 
defendants did no more than give evidence as witnesses, they would 
not be liable under 166th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1368. But if 
they or any of them gave false information, whether by affidavit or 
otherwise, with intent to support a false accusation, such defendants 
would come within thJA charge. See Grenier's Reports, part I. P. C. 
Balapitiya, 4307;i, July 3rd, 1873. Kurunegala, P. C. 6828, per 
Supreme Court, November 28, 1869." 



P. C. Colombo, B. The Magistrate (Fisher) refused to order Refusal of 
summons on a charge of theft in the following terms : " Referred to a process, 
civil action. The accused was complainant's kept mistress and the 
articles referred to are wearing apparel." Jn appeal, per Stewart, J. 
— " Set aside and case remanded for further hearing. The Magistrate 
should record the examination of the complainant. The answers 
given by the complainant have not been taken down, the Magistrate 
only noting the conclusion arrived at by him." 



P. C. Galle, 85583. This was a charge of removing timber with- Timlier 
out a permit, in breach of the 2nd and 5ta clauses of Ordinance 4 of Ordinance. 
1 864. The Magistrate (Lee) held as follows : " The evidence shews 
a removal after the time specified in the permit, but it is proved that 
there was a permit. The plaint is defective and the accused is 
acquitted. It is competent to complainant to prosecute on an amended 
plaint." In appeal, per Stewart, J. — " Set aside and case remanded 
for farther hearing. Instead of filing a fresh plaint, it appeai-s to the 
Supreme Court that the complainant should have been allowed to 
amend his plaint, by adding a count charging the defendant with the 
removal of the timber after the time specified in his permit, in breach 
of the clauses of the Ordinance referred to. The case is remanded 
accordingly." 



Sept. 19, | '" ^^^^ ^— 

Pismissal. p. C. Colombo, 7843. The Magistrate (Fisher) dismissed the 

charge (which was one of assault; in the following terms : " The 
accused in this case is not forthcoming. The case has been repeatedly 
postponed ^nd cannot be allowed to pend any longer. The case is 
therefore dismissed," In appeal, per Stewaet, J. — " Set aside. 
According to the Fiscal's report, made on the day the case was dis- 
inissed, the defendant ran away on seeing the process-server. Under 
these circumstances, to confirm the order dismissing the case would 
in effect be to allow the defendant to benefit by his having hitherto 
successfully evaded an-est. Warrant should re-issue and every ettort 
be made to arre§t the accuse4." 



Maintenance. P- C- Kalutara, 49264. This was a case of maintenance against 
the father of several illegitimate children. The complainant (the 
mother) led ample evidence to prove the charge, but the Magistrate 
(Baumgartiier) acquitted the defendant in the following judgment. 
" Complainant has failed to show by whom the children now require 
to be supportecV Beyond her own statement, that defendant does 
nothing to support them, the evidence on this point is all presump- 
tion. I take it that this is a fact which must be proved specially, and 
that it cannot be taken on presumption. It is unnecessary to expresa 
an opinion as to the paternity. In appeal, (Orenier for appellant) 
per Stbwakt, J. — " Set aside and case renianded for further hearing. 
It is not suggested that the defendant supports the chiklren or that 
they have means of their own for their maintenance, It would there- 
fore almost seem to follow that they require to be supported by others. 
Even if it be the fact that the children are maintained by the com- 
plainant, this will make no difference, she being included in the word 
' others.' At the further hearing it will be open to the complain-, 
ant to give fiirther evidence as to how the children are supported.'* 



Labor ^' ^' Gampola, 24771. The charge was 'Uhat the defendant, 

Ovdinance. being a servant employed under complainant, was, on the 12th July, 
1873, at Maskelya in Dickoya, insolent towards the complainailt, and 
that the defendant also misconducted himself, in breach of the 11th 
clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865." The complainant (Oray) deposed 
as follows : 

" I own and manage Bunyan Estate. The accused was my Kangany, 
On July 1 2th, I found fault with him about a contract badly executed, 
J told him the contract was discontinued, and he gesticulated and 



POLICE COURTS. 81 ) 

made much'noise in the store whei-e I lived. He said the Doray was 
a (Tamil) vagabond, Mrs. Gray was in the store and approaching 
her confinement." 

Cross-examined. The Tamil word used means in the Dictionary 
" a wrangler, a mischievous fellow, etc " The contract was monthly. 
The accused was to "be paid R. 1 per acre, to be paid monthly. 

Re-examined He was a monthly servant, besides being a contrac- 
tor. The abusive epithet was used both to my face in the store and 
when I was upstairs " 

The Magistrate (^Penney) found the accused guilty and sentenced 
him to forfeiture of wages and one month's hard labor. In appeal, 
Grenier for appellant,— The defendant's misconduct, if any, was in 
his capacity as contractor, and he could only be civilly liable. [He 
was a Kangany, and as such was a servant under the Ordinance. — 
Stewart, J.] But his conduct was independently of his duties as 
Kangany, and it was with reference to the contract that there was 
a dispute. The complainant's own words jvere — " he was a monthly 
servant besides being a contractor." Supposing an Appoo contracted 
to build a house for his master, could the former be criminally indicted 
for negligence or disobedience of orders in connection with the work ? 
[But here the man was paid by the month and was therefore a 
monthly servant. — Stewart, J.] It made no difference whether he was 
paid by the week or by the month. The weeding contract was in its 
very nature such as would extend over a month, and should have been in 
^vriting, as required by the 7th clause of the Ordinance, to render the 
defendant liable to the penalties prescribed by the 11th clause. 
Besides, the conduct of the defendant did not amount to an oftence. 
The Ordinance should be strictly construed, *nd where a contractor- 
servant called his employer a '■^ perehcaren^^ (that was the word used) 
^leaning " a qna,rrelsome persen," he could hardly, in fairness and 
justice, be convicted of " insolence," Perdinands, for respondent. 
it was impossible to dissever the character of contractor from that of 
servant in this case. The circumstances under which the language 
qomplained of was used, apart from the language itself, rendered the 
defendanr liable to punishment for insolence. Per Stewart, J. — 
»! Affirmed." 



Sept. 23, 



September 23. 
Present Stewart, J. 
P. C. Panadare, 21657. The plaint was "that the defendants licensing 
did, on the 31st ultimo, at their shop at Morotto, sell intoxicating Ordinance, 
liquors, contrary to their license, in breach of the 10th clause pf 



Sept. 23. | ®^ ^^^^ I-— 

Ordinance 7 of 1873." The evidence went to show that the accused 
although only authorised to sell liquor by the bottle, had sold by the 
glass. The license itself was not produced, and the Proctor for the 
defence took the objection that there was no evidence to show what the 
defendants were licensed to do and that the plaint charged them 
with selling and not retailing liquor. The Magistrate (Morgan) 
however convicted one of the defendants and sentenced him to pay a 
fine of Rs, 20. Tn appeal, the judgment was affirmed.. 

Maintenance. p. c. Galle, 85710. The defendant was charged with not having 
maintained the complainant, his wife. The Magistrate (Zee) havin° 
acquitted the accused, on the ground that the complainant had been 
legally divorced before the instiiution of the case, the judgment was 
affirmed. 



Ordiwi ^- ^- ^""^' **^^°2' '^^^ <=^8'''ge ^as that " the defendant, being 
the keeper of a tavern, did, on the 18th instant, in the Fort tavern 
No. 1, allow people to sit and loiter therein, in breach of Ordinance 
No. 7 of 1 873, clause 1 8th." The Magistrate {Lee) convicted him in 
the following terms : '< I do not consider that it was intended by the 
Legislature to make the mere sitting in a tavern an oifence, I appre- 
hend that the word 'sit' is in some degree governed by the subse- 
quent word ' loiter,' and that to constitute an ofience there must be 
either a " sitting and loitering' or a loitering alone. It is quite clear 
that the defendant, being a tavern keepex-, has on this occasion allowed 
persons to loiter, and to sit and loiter, in the tavern." In appeal 
(Kelly for appellant) per Stewart, J. — "Affirmed." 



Cruelty to P. C Panadure, 21311. The defendant was charged with hfiving 

animals. shot the complainant's dog, in breach of the 19th clause of Ordinance 
6 of 1846. It appeared that the dog had been tied to a jack tree 
near complainant's kitchen, and that defendant, on the pretence that 
the animal had killed one of his pigs, deliberately shot at it and killed 
it. The witnesses for the prosecution admitted that the dog- had been of 
a ferocious nature. In appeal, against a conviction, per Stewart, J. — 
"Affirmed. According to the evidence, the pig had been killed fifteen 
days before the shooting of the dog. The shooting appears to have 
been both wilful and malicious." 



Theft by P. C. Colombo, 9101. The charge was " that the defendants did, 

the Police, on the 22nd July, at Slave Island, unlawfully enter the opium shop 

of the complainant, who was a licensed dealer, and did steal, take and 



POLICE COURTS. 83 

carry away a handful of money from the drawer of complainant's 
table. The facts of the case are set forth in the judgment of the Magis- 
trate (FisAer.)—" I believe the case against the accused. It does 
not appear that the accused went into the complainant's shop with 
any deliberate intention to rob him. They asked for money to be 
lent to them, and the complainant's servant refused to gratify them, 
upon which the money was taken, apparently only a few coppers 
amounting to about six pence. The offence would not be a very 
henious one, if the actors had not been Constables in uniform, but they 
being Constables must be punished with comparative severity. Prom 
Inspector Buckley's account, it would appear that a complaint was 
made to him of the money in question having been taken; but in face 
of one of the complainant's party being looked up at the time, he 
deemed it a frivolous one, and sent the complainant about his busi-- 
ness. The worst point of the proceedings to my mind was the 
arrest and confinement of Veeracuttie, whom, whatever Serjeant 
Rodrigo may say to the contrary, I believe to have gone to the 
station to ask for assistance. It is evident from Inspector Buckley's 
action as regards him, that he was locked up on some frivolous com- 
plaint. The 1st accused is an acting Sergeant. The other two 
Constables were at the time under his command. He must therefore 
be punished most severely, and he is sentenced to be imprisoned with 
hard labor for two months. The 2nd accused is sentenced to pay a 
fine of Rs. 30 or to be imprisoned for one month with hard labor. 
The 3rd accused appears only to have taken a passive part in the 
proceedings, and I shall leave him to be dealt with by his own officers. 
In appeal, (^Ferdinands for appellant) per Stewart, J. — " Affirmed." 



Sept. 26. 



P. C. Balapitimoddra, 44307. The plaint, as filed by a Police Defective 
Officer on the 25th August, was as follows : " That the defendant P ^ 
did on this day at the Court House of Balapiti escape from custody." 
The Magistrate (HaUiley) having heard complainant's evidence fined 
defendant Rs. 5. In appeal, per Stewart, J. — "Set aside. The 
plaint is defective. It does not allege, nor does it clearly appear 
from the evidence, that the defendant had been legally arrested and 
was in lawful custody." 

September 5J6. 
Present Stewart, J. 
P. C. Haldamulla, 2206. The charge was " that the defendant I'.al""' 
did, on or about the 28th day of May last, at Lemastota, wilfully ^^ 'nance, 
and knowingly seduce and take away two coolies, named KatnapuUe 



Sept. 26. 



84 tART I. — 

and Kanagamutti, who were engaged to come and carry on work on 
Macaldenia Estate under the complainant, while they were en. route 
to that estate, in breach of the 19th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865." 
7~he complainant (Murray^ deposed that he had on the coast, as his 
agent for supplying coolies, one Muttyau Kangany, who had once 
been employed on Meeriabedde Estate but who held a discharge in 
fidl from the Superintendent thereof (Liston ;) that the coolies in 
question had bound themselves in writing in India to work on Mac- 
aldenia ; but that they had beenseduced away to Meeriabadde by the 
accused, who was Liston's head Kiangany. .He charged on informa- 
tion received from two other coolies, who proved that the accused 
had induced the meh to desert by telling thetn that there was severe 
sickness at Macaldenia. It was also proved that neither Ratnaptille 
nor Kanagamutti, who had previously woi-ked for Liston, were bound 
to his estate by advances or otherwise. The writings obligatory 
alleged to have been executed by thelli in India, in favor of com- 
plainant's agent, were 

1. (B.) A "debt bond" by Katiagamutti, Which Was as follows:— 
" The sum I received this day from you is Rs. 10, for which sum of 
rupees ten I will-get coolies to be taken to Macttldenia in Haldamtilla> 
Ceylon, where I and ttiy coolies will woA under you, not less than A 
year, and on your demand 1 shall rejiay the sum of rupees ten and 
redeem this bond; and if I and the coolies fail to go, Ijwill pay one 
half for one, or half more added to the principal. To that efiect, 
I have agreed and granted this debt bond." 

2 A " debt bond " by Hatnapulle as follows : "On account of 
necessity I do borrow and receive this day the sura of Es, 84, for 
which sum of rupees eighty four I will pay interest of one per cent, 
and will redeem the bond on or before the 30th January, 1874, after 
paying in full the principal and interest." 

It was shown at the trial that a copy of the first document had 
been duly given to Kanagamutti, immediately after the execution 
thereof. The Magistrate {Beid) qonvicted the defendant and sentenc- 
ed him to three months' hard labor. 

In appeal, Browne, for appellant, contended that one of the coolies, 
Ratnapulle, was clearly not bound, as he had not eiitered into a 
written contract to serve or received a copy of any such contract, 
as required by the Ordinance, section 9 ; and that as to the other 
cooly, who had been subpoened by complainant but not examined, the 
evidence as to delivery to him of the copy-contract was insufficient. 
(^Ferdinands for respondent was not called upon.) Per StewarI, J. 
^" Affirmed. If the defendant considered the evidence of Ratnapulle 
and Kanagamutti would have been in his favor, there was nothing to 



Servant. 



POLICE COURTS. 85 |_ ggpj, go 

prevent his calling them as his witnesses. In respect of the cooly 
Kanagamutti, the document B places it beyond all doubt that he was 
under engagement to proceed to Macaldenia, complainant's estate." 



September 26. 
Present Stewakt, J. 
P. C. Punwila, 14568. This was a charse against a servant for Master and 
leaving his master's service without notice and without reasonable 
cause. The evidence disclosed that the accused had been struck and 
told •' to go" by the complainant who, however, pleaded his servant's 
insolence in justification of the assault. The Blagistrate (Power) 
convicted the defendant, holding that what the master intended by 
his language was that the servant should leave his immediate presence 
but not his service. In appeal, (Grenier for respondent) per 
Stewart, J. — •' Set aside. The defendant, it Would appear, was not 
only assaulted by his master, but also told to go. Under these cir- 
cumstances, the charge against defendant, for leaving his service with- 
out notice, cannot be maintained. In what the impertinence consisted 
which, it is alleged, provoked the assault is not stated, so as to allow 
any opinion being formed as to whether it was, under the circum- 
stances, such as would justify the defendant leaving complainant's 
service." 



September 30. 
Present Stewart, J. 
P. C. Galle, 85328. The plaint was "that the defendant did, on Cruelty to 
the 3rd July, at Mipe, beat, ill-treat, cut and torture a cow of the animals, 
complainant, in breach of the 1st clause of the Ordinance 7 of 1862." 
The Magistrate (Zee) held as follows : " The defendant is proved to 
have slashed at this animal with a knife, and to have cut it while tres- 
passing on his enclosed plantation. The acts inflicted pain on the 
animal and were unnecessary. Hence there has been a clear infrac- 
tion of the Ordinance. Guilty. Sentenced to pay a fine of Ks. 30." 
In appeal, the judgment was set aside; and per Stewart, J. — " The 
cow, according to the evidence, was trespassing in the defendant's 
cultivated enclosure, and appears to have been wounded by the de- 
fendant on the impulse of the moment whilst driving it of}. JN'o 
cruelty or torture, as contemplated by the Ordinance, has been proved. 
See Matale, P. C, No. 71183, per Supreme Court, Febraary 4, 1873, 
Grenier's Reports, p. 9 ; and per Supreme Court, Panwila, P. 0. 
14454, August 12, 1873." 



Oct. 2. 

Grave 
digging. 



86 



PART I.- 



Security to 

keep the 

peace. 



AVrong 
dismissal. 



P. C. Panadure, 21315. The defendants were charged with hav- 
ing, on the 17th June, 1873, at Remum, " wiclsedly and maliciously . 
damaged, injured and spoilt a grave, wherein the complainant's mother 
had been buried, in breach of the 19th clause of Ordinance No, 6 of 
1846." At the trial, the defendant's Proctor raised theobjection that 
the plaint did not disclose an offence under the Ordinance, as the "rave 
was not the actual property of the complainant. But the Magis- 
trate (^Morgan) held that " the digging of a grave wherein it has been 
shown to the satisfaction of the Court that a corpse had been interred 
where the defendants had no cause or excuse for diirwinor it, is an 
offence under the 19th clause of Ordinance 6 of 1846," and accord- 
ingly convicted the defendants. In appeal, affirmed. 



P. C. Colombo, 8995. The plaint was " that the defendants did, 
on the 14th day of June, 1873, at iSIahara, assault and beat complain- 
ant. The Magistrate (Fisher) held as follows : " The first and sec- 
ond accused are found guilty. As it is impossible to discover who 
commenced the assault, it is ordered that the 1st and 2nd accused 
give bail in Rs. 50, and one surety in Rs. 50, to be of good behaviour 
for three months. Third and fourth accused are acquitted." In ap- 
peal, per Stewart, J. — "Altered by the 1st and 2nd accused being 
ordered to find security to keep the peace in the sum and for the 
period required by the Magistrate, instead of for their good behaviour. 
The 104th section of the Ordinance 11 of 1868 authorises a Police 
Magistrate to bind parties as therein pointed out to keep the peace, 
but no provision is made for a Magistrate binding over for good 
behaviour." 



October 2. 

Present Stewakt and Caylet, J . J. 

P. C. Panwila, 14566. This was an appeal against the following 

order by the Police Magistrate (Power-)— " 1 5th September, 1873. 

Parties present and not ready. Postponed to 15th October, 1873. 

Complainant now absent. Case struck ofi." Per Stewart, J. 

" Set aside and remanded for further hearing. The first portion of 
the entry, under date 15th September, shows that the case was post- 
poned to the 15th October. This possibly may have led to the ap- 
pellant's subsequent absence on that day." 



Fiscal's P- C. Panadure, 21472. The charge was "that the defendants 

Orilinance- abovenamed did, on the 20th instant, at Rawelawatta, resist and ob- 
struct the complainant in the execution of the warrant No. 20829, 



POLICE COUETS. 87 

dii'ected to him by the defendant, Fiscal of Panadure, in breach of 
the 23rd clause of Ordinance 4 of 1867" For the defence it was 
contended in the Court below, that the plaint was defective in that 
the complainant was not described as a Fiscal's officer. In appeal, 
against a conviction, per Stbwart, J. — " Affirmed. The complainant 
was for the time being employed as an officer by the Fiscal." 



Oct. 7. 



di nance. 



October, 7. 
Present Stewaet and Caylet, J. J. 
P. C. Maiale, iSOS. The charge was "that the defendant was. Vagrant Or- 
on the 14th instant, found on the Spring Blount Estate for an un- 
lawful purpose and not being able to give a satisfactory account of 
himself, in breach of Ordinance 4 of 1841, clause 4, section 6." 
For the defence a witness (Muttoosamy) was called, who deposed as 
follows: — "I know defendant. He goes about charming people, and 
curing people of devils. * * * I have seen the devils come out of a 
man,' The Magistrate (^Temple) convicted the accused and sentenced 
him to one month's hard labor, in the following terms: "defendant, 
from his own admission, has remained on the estate after having been 
told to leave on several occasions, and the fact of his going about 
curing people is not to he tolerated, as Tamil Coolies believe in it, 
and I have Iciiown many cases of serious illness being brought on 
from fright owing to these foolish charms." hi appeal, per Stewart, 
J. — :" Set aside. The practice of administering charms in order to 
effect cure, though very absurd, cannot be regarded as unlawful." 



P. C. Gampola, 24910. The defendant was charged, under the Licensing ()r- 
37th clause of Ordinance 7 of 1873, with having kept open his shop, tlinancc. 
in which intoxicating liquors were sold, at P. 50. p. m. In appeal, 
against a conviction, Kelly, for appellant, submitted the argument 
contained in the petition of appeal, which was to the effect "that all 
that the Ordinance required was that the shop should be closed after 
the hour of eight at night and before the hour of five in .the mornmg.'' 
If these words were strictly construed, as they ought to be, occurring 
as they did in a penal statute, the plaint disclosed no offence. Per 
Catlet, J. — "Affirmed. Phe words ' shall be closed after the hour 
of eight at night and before the hour of five in the morning' are am- 
biguous ; being capable of two constructions. They may either be 
taken as representing a single act, or as i-epresenting a continuous 
state ; that is, they may either refer to the act of closing or to the 
state of being shut np : and as the latter meaning, though not gram- 
matically the most obvious, is clearly the one contemplated by the 



O.'T, 7. 



PART I. 



Legislature, this Court is bound to adopt it under the general rule that 
the words of the Ordinance ought, if possible, to be construed in such 
a manner as will not lead to any manifest absurdity. The words thus 
taken would mean that arrack shops, etc., shall be kept shut (i. e, shall 
not be kept open) after 8 o'clock at night and before 5 in the morning.'' 



Disorderly 
conduct. 



Labor 
Ordinance. 



P. C. Pamvila, 14645. The charge was " that the defendants did, 
on the 25th September, at Panwila, in the public street, behave in a 
riotous and disorderly manner, in breach of the 6th section of the 53rd 
clause of Ordinance 16 of 1865." The 1st defendant while pleading 
sought to justify the disorderly conduct complained of (which 
consisted of a fight in the public road) by alleging provocation on the 
part of the 2nd defendant, who was represented as having " put his 
hands to his back and then turned round to 1st defendant's shop and 
put his fingers to his nose." In appeal, against a conviction, it was 
submitted by appellant, in his petition of appeal, that the plaint 
should have been laid under the 2nd clause of Ordinance 4 of 1841, 
and not under the Police Ordinance of 1865. Per Catley, J.— 
"Aflii-med. The appellant has pleaded 'guilty under provocation.' 
No provocation would justify riotous and disorderly behaviour in the 
public street, and the plea must be taken as one of guilty absolutdy. 
This plea has cured the defect in the plaint, which is referred to in 
the petition of appeal." 



P. C. Naivalapitiya, 18156. Nine coolies were charged on the fol- 
lowing plaint : " that defendants did, on the 18th August, 1873, leave 
complainant's service without notice or reasonable cause, in breach ot 
clause 11 of Ordinance 11 of 1865." It transpired in evidence that 
Mr. Black, the present superintendent of Wannarajah Estate and the 
virtual complainant in the case, had succeeded Mr, Kelly from whom 
he had received a cheque for Rs. 1850 in payment of certain advances 
which had been made to one Mari Cangany, who had procured the 
accused coolies for the Estate. The defence appeared to be that the 
cheque in question had been given and accepted for the discharge of 
both Mari (Jangany and his coolies, and that therefore the defendants 
were not liable to be prosecuted. The Magistrate (Penney) held as 
follows : — " The Court is of opinion that as Mari Cangany is allowedto 
have received the Rs. 1850 and to have had that entered as a debt 
against him, even although the coolies' names were entered on the 
check roll, he (Mari Cangany) was in reality the proprietor, so to 
speak, of the coolies brought both by him and his agents, his sub- 
canganies. He had to wipe ofl the debt by means of the coolieS' he 



POLICE CODETS. 89 ) q^^ y 

brought. Mr. Black in receiving the cheque from Mr. Kelly, in Labor 
the opinion of the Court, declared Mari Cangany free to go ; and as Ordinance, 
it is absurd to suppose that -Ba- 1850 would be paid for the sole pur- 
pose of obtaining one man, the natural conclusion is that that sum 
when paid freed both him and those employed by him. Mr. Black 
gave no intimation that certain coolies intended to stay, and the pay- 
er of the cheque naturally concluded hewould get all the men ob- 
tained by Mari Cangany by means of a sum equal in amount to his 
cheque. The accused are acquitted, and the complainant is adjudged 
to pay their costs." 

In appeal, Ferdinands, for appellant, submitted the following affida- 
vit from Mr. Kelly : 

I do hereby make oath and swear that on the i8th of August last, I 
sent to the Superintendent of " Wanne Rajah" Estate the sura of rupees 
eighteen hundred and fifty, being the full amount due by Marie Cangany and 
all his under Canganies to the " Wanne Rajah" Estate. In the letter en- 
closing the cheque, I stated that I sent that amount in settlement of the 
accounts of Marie Cangany and his under Canganies. My cheque was ac- 
cepted, and no communication was ever made to me that any Canganies or 
Coolies would not be paid off t my letter dated August i8th was put in in 
evidence and should be attached to the case. The Coolies in question belong 
to under Canganies who all belong to Marie Head Cangany, These under 
Canganies have all had their accounts settled, I having paid their debts in 
the round sum of Hs. 1850 sent in August i8th. To my letter enclosing 
the cheque and stating that it was in settlement of all accounts of Mari 
Head Cangany, and his under Canganies, I> jiever receivea any reply, and 
that cheque for payment in full being accepted without any reply or com- 
ment, I swear that I considered myself entitled to Mari Head Cangany, 
his under Canganies and all their people willing to come : the sum of Bs. 1850 
being the full amount of everything due by them and having liquidated the 
debts of the Coolies now in question. 

(Signed) L. H. Kelly. 

Orenier, for respondent, stated that he would not object to a re- 
hearing. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

Per Stewart, J. — (October 14th)— "Set aside and case remanded 
for fiirther hearing on both sides, and judgment de novo. Prom the 
evidence it would appear that the names of all the accused were en- 
tered in the Check Roll of the Wanna Rajah Estate, and that the 
defendants were actually employed on that estate immediately pre- 
ceding the date of their alleged desertion. The circumstance of the 
defendants having been brought to the estate by Mari Cangany or 
his Agents cannot aflect the liability of the defendants and their obli- 
gation to serve their employer, they having once entered his service. 
The cangany and the coolies of his gang are alike servants within the 
meaning of the Ordinance, bound to serve the prescribed time ; neither 



Oct. 14. 



90 PART r.— 

the one nor the other being at liberty to quit the service of his em- 
ployer without due notice or leave, or reasonable cause. It is evi- 
dent that the defendants, at any rate the 1st, 2nd and 3rd, were 
aware of the necessity for giving notice. These three defendants 
had, along with several other coolies, given notice of their intention to 
leave the estate. The other coolies who had joined in the notice 
were duly paid oflf on the 1 8th August, except these defendants who 
had sometime before withdrawn their notice, and consequently were 
regarded as if they had given no notice. The remaining defendants 
do not appear to have given any notice at all. On the above facts 
the Supreme Court would have no difficulty in coming to a decision, 
but for the other question raised on behalf of the defendants, whether 
when the Superintendent (Mr. Black) received the cheque for 
Ks. 1 850, which was on the same day as that on which the defendants 
are charged with leaving complainant's service, he either expressly or 
by reasonable and necessary implication released the defendants from 
further service on Wanna Rajah. On this point fuller evidence than 
what is now before the Court is requisite, to allow of any satisfactory 
conclusion being found. Mr. Black says, ' Mr. Kelly sent me a 
cheque for Rs. 1850 to pay ofi Mari Cangany's debt.' Was any money 
then due by the defendants or any of them ? And, if so, was such sum 
comprised in Mr. Kelly's cheque ? Or was the cheque only received 
in liquidation of Mari Cangany's individual debt ? Was this payment 
made and received with the knowledge of the defendants ? And did 
anything pass between them, Mr. Kelly and Mr. Black with refer- 
ence to this money ? How came Mr. Kelly to give the money ? All 
that transpired between the several parties should be ascertained as 
fully and clearly as may be possible, with the view of determining 
whether either Mr. Black or Mr. Dunbar in any way assented to the 
defendants leaving the estate. The letter referred to in Mr. Kelly's 
affidavit should be produced." 



October 14. 
Present Stewart, J. 

Master Atten- J. P- C. Colombo, 83. The plaint was " that the defendants did, 
dant's Ordin- in the roadstead of Colombo, on the night of the 27th September, 
ance. 1873, in the canoe No. 38, go alongside of the barque ' ConiscliSe' 
before she was visited by the Health Officer of the port, in disobedi- 
ence of the Master Attendant's order dated 1 1th September, 1873, 
and in breach of the 24th clause of Ordinance 6 of 1865," The or- 
der referred to, as filed in the case, was as follows. 



POLICE COURTS. 



91 



I hereby give notice that from this date no boat or canoe shall eom- 
mnnicate or go alongside of any vessel arriving in the port of Colombo, 
nntil after she anchors in a proper berth and has been visited by the Health 
Officer of the port, and the vessel reported by him to be free from infec- 
tion. The tindal and boatmen of any boat disobeying these orders shall 
be liable to the penalty prescribed by law. 

(Signed.) James Donnav, 

Master Attendant, 
Master Attendant's Office, 
Colombo, 11th September, 1873. 

In appeal, against a conviction by the Mao;istrate (^DonnanJ 
Grenier, for the appellants, contended that the port-rule in question 
was illegal, as not having reference to any acts ejusdem generis with 
those specified in the 24th clause of the Ordinance. The power to 
make such a regulation as that of which a breach was alleged, was 
vested in the Government alone, under the 6th clause which required 
a proclamation in due form one month at least before the regulation 
could take efiect. Indeed, an order identical with that of the 
Master Attendant had been enacted by the Grovemment and pub- 
lished in the Grazette of the 27th September, thus impliedly shewing 
that Captain Donnan had no authority to act in the matter. But 
even supposing that the rule alleged to have been infiringed was 
legal, there was not an iota of evidence to shew that the Health 
Officer had not visited the ship before the defendants went alongside 
of her. 

Per Stewaet, J, — " Set aside and case remanded for further hear- 
' ing. The words in the early part of the 24th clause of the Ordin- 
ance No. 6 of 1865 seem sufficiently wide to embrace such an 
infraction of the order of the Master Attendant as that charged ; 
but there should be some evidence to prove that the defendant came 
alongside of the vessel before she was visited by the Health Officer." 



} 



Oct. 14. 



P. C. Mullaittimi, 8301. The plaint was "that the defendant (a 
road overseer) did on the 30th of July, at Kanakararen Coolem, un- 
lawfully and maliciously cut and destroy the palmirah olas and fruits 
of the complainant's garden, in breach of the 14th clause of Ordinance 
6 of 1846." The Magistrate (Smythe) held as follows : "Defendant 
had no business to cut olahs without complainant's permission. 
There is a bad feeling between the parties. Complainant has very 
much exaggerated matters, and I think a fine of Rs- 5, which is hereby 
inflicted on defendant, will meet the ends of justice." In appeal, 
Grenier, for appellant. — TJie Magistrate in his judgment found that 
the defendant had cut only olahs, which according to the evidence 
for the defence (not disbelieved) had been used for patching up 



Malicious 
Injuries Or- 
dinance. 



Oct. 21. 



92 PART I. — 

water baskets uaed on road work. The 72nd clause of the Thorough- 
fares Ordinance authorized road officers to remove materials from 
adjacent lands. [But would olahs come within the meaning of the 
term materials? — Stewart, J.] The cutting of timber was expressly 
sanctioned, and if a tree could be cut surely the leaves thereof might 
be removed. The complainajit was applied to for permission to cut, 
but it appeared that he neither granted nor withheld such permission. 
There was certainly no malicious injury proved. Per Stewabt,J. — 
"Set aside. The Magistrate does not find that the act was malicious, 
nor is there sufficient evidence that the act was so ; the contrary 
rather appears from the finding of the Mi^gistrate," 



Toll. p. c, Matara, 72131. The plaint was " that the defendant (a toll- 

renter of Akuresse) did, on the 31st March, unlawfully demand and 
take toll from the complainant after previous payment was made at 
Talliggawille for the same bandy, contrary to the clauses 9, 17 and 18 
of Ordinance 14 of 1867." The Magistrate ( Swettenham) held as 
follows : " The toll at Talliggawille appears to be one of those autho- 
rized by Ordinance 14 of 1872, although no proclamation has been 
made to declare collection at that place. I have searched in vain for 
any provision that paying toll at Talliggawille should olear Akuressa 
or vice versa. There is nothing to render defendant's conduct illega|., 
or even morally wrong. Defendant is acquitted." In appeal, per' 
Stewart, J. — Affirmed. 



October 21. 

Present Stewakt, J, 

Maintenance. P. C. Galle, 85380. The accused was charged, under the Vagrant 
Ordinance, with not maintaining his wife and child. The defence 
was that the husband and wife, who had married in 1 868, had shortly 
after the birth of their first child separated by mutual consent, when 
under a notarial deed sufficient provision, it was alleged, had been 
made for the support of the wife. The complainant's father deposed 
as follows: " The parties lived together about two years and separated 
five or six years ago. Complainant's mother is aUve. Defendant is 
possessed of property, and so is complainant. There was a deed 
written between the complainant and defendant prior to the separa- 
tion. Since that deed was written complainant has lived with me. 
She did not bring back any property. The child was 6 or 7 months 
old at the time of separation. Defendant went to Anuradhapoora 
and Colombo." This was the only evidence in the case, the Magis- 



POLICE COURTS. 93 ) g^ 2]. 

trate (Zee) recording that " the facts were not contradicted and that 
the deed was admitted by complainant." 

In appeal, against a conviction, (Layard for appellant, Orenier 
for respondent) per Stewart, J. — " Set aside and the case remanded ^ 
for further hearing. The Supreme Court concurs with the Police 
Magistrate in holding the deed void. But as by that document the 
complainant agreed to retain her own property (from the evidence it 
would appear she has property) separate from her husband, and to 
forego her right as well as that of her child to maintenance from the 
defendant, who may therefore have supposed that his wife and child 
were being supported from the property thus set aside, the Supreme 
Court considers, under the circumstances, that this case should go 
back for ftirther en quiry generally, and also as to whether any de- 
mand was made for maintenance from the de fendant, and whether he 
was aware that his wife and child were being maintained by others. 
The value of complainant's property referred to by the 1st witness 
(father of complainant) is not stated. No doubt in general a demand 
for maintenance is not necessary, the ofience consisting in the party 
leaving his wife or child without support whereby they become 
chargeable to others. If, however, the husband or father has in fact 
made sufficient provision for his wife or child, and bona fide was under 
the beUef that they were being supported as had been arranged, the 
case would both in law and reason stand on a different footing, there 
being neither the mens rea nor mens conscia necessary to render a 
party criminally liable. It will be seen that there is no difierence in 
reality between the judgments of the Supreme Court in the Panwila 
cases referred to. In 4890 (II Bel. 93) the ordinary rule was laid 
down. The other case (4577, Ibid 87) was of a special character, 
the wife having left her husband no less than ten years befor«, taking 
her child with her." 



P. C. Puttalam, 6^4:0. The charge was " that the defendant did, Disorderly 
on the 3rd October, 1873, at Puttalam high road, behave in a riotous conduct, 
and disorderly manner, in breach of the 2nd clause of Ordinance 4 of 
1841." The order of the Magistrate, ( PoZe) refusing a summons on 
the plaint, was as follows; "Complainant states^defeudant scolded 
me with filthy words. Nothing else. C!>se dismissed." In appeal, 
per Stewaet, J. — " Set Jiside and case remanded for hearing. The 
plaint discloses a legal oftence. The examination of the com- 
plainant is so scanty that it aftords no sufficient facts to allow of any 
safe conclusion being drawn. It will be seen that the 2nd section, of 
the Ordinance No. 4 of 1841 is in the disjunctive, providing for the 
punishment not only of persons behaving in a riotqua manner, but also 



Oct. 28. 



94 PAET I. — 

for the punishment of persons behaving in a disorderly manner in the 
public street. Whether the conduct of the accused, having regard 
to the language used, his tone, demeanour and acts, amounted to dis- 
orderly behaviour in the public street, can only be safely determined 
upon a consideration of all the circumstances as they may be proved 
in evidence." 



October 28. 
Present Stewaet, J. 
Gambling. P. C. Chilaw, 94G7. The charge was "that the defendants"— 
(nine in number) — " did on the night of the 7th October, at the house 
of the 1st defendant in Vattically, which is used as a promiscuous 
gaming house, engage at a game of chance with dice, in breach of the 
4th section, 4th clause of Ordinance 4 of 1841." The Magistrate 
( Wragg) found the accused guilty and sentenced them to a fort- 
night's imprisonment each, excepting the 1st who was sentenced to pay 
a fine of B»- 50 and to be imprisoned at hard labor for six months. 
In appeal, {Grenier for appellant) per Stewaet, J. — " AiBrmed, save 
as to the sentence upon the 1st defendant, which is altered into the 
same as that passed upon the other defendants. The defendants were 
all charged with a breach of the 4th clause of the 4th section of Or- 
dinance No. 4 ofl841, No charge was laid under the 19th section, 
nor does the plaint distinctly allege in the words of this section 'ihat 
the 1st defendant kept or used the house for the purpose of commoa 
or promiscuous gaming, etc." 



Labor ^- ^- Matara, 72220. The defendant, who was described in the 

Ordinance, plaint as " a monthly paid servant under complainant as Toddy- 
drawer, " was charged, under the Uth clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865, 
with having left his employer's service without notice. The com- 
plainant in his evidence stated: — "the defendant was employed under 
me as a monthly servant as Toddy-drawer. I used to pay defendant 
Jis- 3 a month and f of a penny for every gallon of toddy extract- 
ed." In appeal against a conviction by the Magistrate (Jumeaitx), 
Ferdinands, for appellant, contended that the defendant in his capacity 
as a toddy-drawer would not come within the operation of the Ser- 
vants' Ordinance. Bed per Stewaet, J. — Affirmed. 



Paddy-tax. P. C. Balapitimodera, 44456. The defendants were charged by » 
Government Paddy Renter, under the 14th clause of Ordinance 14 of 
1840, with having cut, threshed and removed the paddy crop of a 
certain field, without giving notice or contributing the 1- 10th share 



POLICE COURTS. 95 \ 

due to Government. The complainant in his evidence having stated 
that he had appointed one Andris, though not in writing, as his 
Agent to collect the rent, the Magistrate (Gibsan) acquitted the 
defendants, holding that the complainant had forfeited his right to 
prosecute under the provisions of the 13th clause of the Ordinance. In 
appeal, per Stewaet, J. — " Set aside and case remanded for further 
hearing. It does not clearly appear from the examination of the 
complainant, whether Andris' appointment as Agent was notified by the 
renter to the principal headman of the division as required by the 
Ordinance. The prosecution, however, in this case has been insti- 
tuted not by Andris but by the renter himself. The evidence 
should be heard. How the informal appointment (if such it be) of 
Andris as agent bears on the case is not shown in the present pro- 
ceedings. If the renter had no duly qualified agent or the renter 
himself was absent, notice should have been given to the nearest head- 
man. See 10th section of Ordinance 14 of 1840." 



Oct. 28. 



P. C. Batticaha, 6248. The defendant was charged with having Resisting Po- 
resisted the complainant in the execution of his duty as a Police lice Headman. 
Headman, in breach of the 165th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1868. 
The Magistrate ( fVorthiiiffton) held as follows : " The evidence es- 
tablished the fact that defendant did resist complainant in the lawful 
execution of his duty, but looking to the acts of complainant prior to 
the descent of defendants from the house they were thatching, to the 
illegality of the arrest of Armogam in the absence'of a warrant, etc, 
I consider that the imposition of a fine will meet the requirements of 
the case. The question irresistibly presents itself also to my mind, 
would the complainant have been so zealous had the position been 
reversed, viz, Setukada people, complainants, v, Valeyurava people. 
Defendants are fined JRs- 10 each." In appeal, per Stewaet J.— 
" Set aside. This is a charge for resisting the complainant in the 
execution of his duty in breach of the Ordinance 11 of 1868, section 
165, according to which it is necessary that the resistance take place 
in the execution of some duty imposed by that Ordinance. The 
arrest of Armogam was not authorized by any of the provisions of the 
Ordinance referred to. The charge against him was only one of 
assault. No oflence was committed by him in the presence of the 
complainant, nor did complainant find him manifesting any intention 
to commit a crime or a breach of the peace. See section 144. The 
evidence accordingly fails to show that the complainant was obstruct- 
ed in the execution of any duty imposed upon him by the Ordinance 
11 of 1868. It should be noted that the plaint is not laid under the 
Ordinance 4 of 1841, sections 7 and 12." 



Nov. 5. 



Mnnicipal 

Bye-laws. 

Previous con 

viction 

pleaded. 



96 



PART I.- 



Paddy 
Ordinance. 



Preservation 

of Game 

Ordinance. 



November 4. 
Present Crbast, C. J., Stewart and Catlet, J. J. 
B. M. Galle, 2914. The defendant was charged under clause 2 
of Bye-laws chapter 22, with having failed to construct a new drain 
through the premises No. 315, although he was required to do so in 
writing on the 9th September last. For the defence it was contended 
that a previous conviction in case No. 2846 was a bar to the present 
prosecution. In appeal, against a conviction, per Stewart, J. — 
" Affirmed. The original order was produced, and is now in the pro- 
ceedings. The oflence now charged is for not constructing a drain 
as required by notice in writing served on 9th September. The case 
No. 284fi was in respect of a distinct charge under notice served on 
the 5 th May. 



F. C. Kalutara, 49425. The defendants were charged, under the 
2nd and 6th sections of Ordinance 14 of 1844 with having cut and 
threshed their paddy crop without notice. The Magistrate QPower) 
acquitted the defendants, on the ground that the wrong clause of the 
Ordinance had been quoted and the amount of the tax had not been 
stated, adding "that in the absence of the latter the Court cannot 
punish, as the punishment must be regulated by the amoimt due. " 
In appeal, per Stewart, J. — " Set aside and case remanded for fur- 
ther hearing, with liberty to the complainant to move to be allowed 
to amend his plaint by substituting the correct section and Ordinance 
infringed. The oflence charged consists in defendants having cut and 
threshed his crop without giving due notice. The extent of the crop 
and the value of the Government share, are only necessary to be as- 
certained for the purpose of punishment and need not in strictness 
be stated in the plaint." 



November 5. 
Present Cebast, C. J. and Stewart and Catlet, J. J. 
P. C. Puftalam, 6i\ 3. The plaint was -'that the defendant did 
on the 14th day of September, 1873, at Aramuthuwavakille, kill game 
without a license and possess meat of game which they could not ac- 
count for satisfactorily, in breach of the 3rd and 6th sections of the 
1 1th clause of Ordinance 6 of 1872." The Magistrate (iSmart) held 
as follows : " The Ordinance in the 5th clause is thus worded : no 
person shall kill game out of the division of the Korale Vidahne 
Arachchi or Udaiyar in which he resides without a license. So that, 
80 far as I can imderstand, by this villainously worded Ordinance any 
one may kill game without license within the division of the Koralle, 



POLICE COURTS, y. 

&c., in which he resides. New this elk was shot by 3rd defendant, Era- 
muthuwewa, within the Wadawutohia Palata (in which 3rd defendant 
lives) and consequently within the jurisdiction of the Koralle of the Tala- 
wanne Pattoo ; so that it would seem that defendant has not committed 
a breach of the Ordinance. The Ordinance is framed apparently with 
a view to the mode of division of the Western and Central Provinces, 
for there is no such officer as the Koralle, Vidahne Arachchi or Udaivar 
in this part ; but if the true intent of the Ordinance is followed, I con- 
clude that one who kills deer within the jurisdiction of the Koralle- 
ship in which he resides commits no breach of the Ordinance, It is 
difficult to conceive the use of the enactment, if this be the meaning 
of the Ordinance, for natives never travel far from their villages for 
shooting, and now that they have such liberty granted to them by the 
Ordinance the preservation of game will not be in the least assisted 
in the non-close season. Defendants are found ' not guilty' and are 
acquitted. I hope an appeal will be taken to settle the point." In 
appeal, per Catlet, J. — " Affirmed. It is not alleged in the plaint, 
nor proved by the evidence, that the elk was killed out of the division 
of the Korale, Vidahn Arachchi, or Udaiyar in which the 3rd defen- 
dant resided. Under the 5th section of the Ordinance No. 6 of 1872> 
persons are prohibited from killing bufialoes, without a special license, 
either within or without such division ; but elk and deer may be killed 
in the open season without any license, if killed within the division of 
the Korale, Vidahn Arachchi or Udaiyar, in which the tiller resides. 
It appears that there is no officer with the title of Koralle, Vidahn 
Arachchi or Udaiyar, in the district within which these defendants 
reside ; but the Supreme Court thinks that the words Korale, Vidahn 
Arachchi or Udaiyar may be considered distributively ; and in the 
present case it was proved that the elk in question was shot within the 
division of the Korale in which the 3rd defendant, the killer, resided," 



Nov. 11. 



November 11. 
Present Creasy, C. J., Stewart and Catlet, J. J. 
P. C. Galle, 85877, Five defendants were charged with assault. Costs, 
The Magistrate (Zee) having disbelieved the evidence entered a ver- 
dict of acquittal and condemned the.complainant to pay each of the 
accused 50 cents. In appeal, per Cbeast, C, J, — " Affirmed. The 
acquittal was clearly right. As to the order on the complainant to 
pay the defendants 50 cents each, the appeal urges that there was no 
proof of the defendants having been put to any actual cost, but the 
loss of a man's time and the trouble which he is put to by having to 
attend the Police Court come fairly within the term ' reasonable ex- 
penses ' in the Police Ordinance 18 of 1871, clause 4," 



) 98 PART I.— 

Nov. 11. >■ 

Informer's P. C. Matara, 72602. This was a charge for a breach of the .5th 

share. clause of the Ordinance No. 2 of 1836. The Magistrate (Jumeaux) 
having found the defendant guilty, in that he had used short measures, 
sentenced him to pay a iine of Rs. 20, of which Rs. 5 was ordered to 
be paid into the Police Fund, the complainant being a Police Inspec- 
tor. In appeal, per Stewart, J.—" Affirmed, but so much of the 
judgment as directs that Rs. 5 of the fine be paid to the Pohce Fund 
is set aside. The Ordinance does not authorise any portion of_ the 
fine being paid to the informer." 



Case struck P- ^^- Joffna, 2985. This was an appeal against the order of the 
off. Magistrate {Murray) striking oflf the case. Per Ckbast, 0, J.— 

" Affirmed, The complainant, through his counsel, agreed to give up 
the case." 



Labor P- <^- Oampola, 25024. The plaint was as follows : " that the de- 

Ordinance, fendant, being a journeyman artificer bound (by a written contract 
executed jh the manner prescribed in the 7th section of the Ordinance 
No. 11 off 1865. and hereunto annexed, marked A) to .serve the com- 
plainant, did on the 10th day ot October, 1873, quit the service of the 
complainant, without leave or reasonable cause, before the end of his 
term of service, and without working ofi or paying off the advances 
mentioned in the said contract, in breach of the 1 1th clause of the 
said Ordinance." The contract, which had been signed by the parties 
in I he presence of Mr. Pennet, Police Magistrate, was to the following 
effect : that the defendant, acknowledging the receiptfrom complain- 
ant of Rs, 83, boxmd himself to work ofl the advance by serving in 
the capacity of boot and shoemaker at one rupee and fifty cents week- 
ly or six rupees per month ; that the defendant agreed to accompany 
the complainant, whenever required, to Kandy, Pussilawa or Navala- 
pitiya on being paid his expenses ; and that the defendant should 
have the right of claiming his discharge at any time on paying up the 
amount due to his employer. The complainant in his evidence stated, 
"defendant was employed under me to make boots, as I am a boot' 
maker. He left my service without giving me notice. He was bound 
under me on the written contract I have filed. I had only recovered 
from defendant Rs. 15 of his advance. Cross-examined. — On the 8th 
ultimo, (8th Septembrr) he told me he would leave my service, but 
did not pay me his advance as agreed before leaving." The Magis- 
trate (Neville) found the defendant guilty and sentenced him to 3 
months' hard labor. In appeal, per Creasy, C. J. — " Affirmed. This 
case clearly came within the Ordinance." 



POLICE COTJETS. 99 



Nov. 14. 



p. C. Pussilawa, 9314. This was an appeal against a conviction Arrack 
and sentence under the 29tli clause of Ordinance 10 of 1844, the de- Ordinance, 
fendants having been charged with retailing arrack, for the purpose 
of being consumed on the premises within which the same was sold, 
without a license from the Government Agent of the Central Province. 
Per Stewart, J. — " Affirmed. The charge should have been laid 
under the 26th and not under the 29th section of the Ordinance. The 
error, however, is not one that could have in any way prejudiced the 
substantial rights of the defendants." 



/. P. Jaffna, 11074. This was an appeal against an order of the Security to 
Justice of the Peace requiring heavy secm-ity from the accused to keep the 
keep the peace, under the provisions of clause 223 of Ordinance 11 of peace 
1868. Per Catlet, J. — " Affirmed. The defendants, four in number, 
after a previous assertion of their intention, came at night on two oc- 
casions and twice removed a stile which the complainant had put up 
to protect his field during the crop season. The stile, after its first 
demohtion by the defendants, had been restored with the sanction and \ 

under the directions of the Police authorities. The fact that the de- 
fendants claim a right of way over the place where the stOe is erected, 
will not excuse this violent assertion of their supposed right ; and it 
is difficult to conceive any act more likely to occasion a breach of the 
peace than those committed by these defendants. The Justice of the 
Peace was accordingly fully justified in binding over the defendants 
to keep the peace." 



November 14. 
Present Cebast, C. J., Stewart and Catlet, J. J. 
P. C. Newera Eliya, 8904. The plaint was " that the defendant 
did, on the 2nd day of September, 1873, at Odupussilawa, sell a bottle oilj'in^nce 
of intoxicating liquor on credit or trust, in breach of the 25th clause 
of Ordinance 7 of 1873."* It appeared from the evidence that the 
accused had supplied Mr. John Findlay with a bottle of brandy on a 
written order which, however, was not produced. Pindlay's evidence 
was to the following efiect. " I had dealings with Armugam Chetty, 
the master of defendant, in general stores, etc. I did not pay for the 
bottle of brandy, or send the money. I sent for it on my account. 
The defendant's principal was away at the coast at the time and I do 

* The defendant had previously been charged in case No. 8899, under the 
10th clause of the Licensing Ordinance, for selling the bottle of brandy in 
question without a license and had been acquitted. 



Nov. 18, 



•{ 



100 PART I. 

not know how our accounts stood. I had sold 275 bushels of Coflee 
of this season to defendant's principal. He had partly paid in cash 
for the Coffee. He left the Island on a sudden, and did not settle 
accounts with me, and 1 received goods from him from time to time 
of which account was to be taken afterwards. 'I have no dealings with 
defendant, and have no accounts with him, and look upon him as the 
shopman of Armogam Chetty. I cannot say how my accounts stand 
with him. There may be a few rupees due on either side.'' The 
JVIagistrate {Hartshorne) convicted the defendant, and fined him Rs. 50. 
In appeal, Grenier, for appellant. — There was no credit asked for 
or given in this case, as it appeared that there were monies in the 
hands of the defendant or his principal due to Findlay who, according 
to his own evidence, had agreed to receive goods from time to time 
in liquidation of the debt. But apart from this, the 25th clause could 
not be taken to apply to the defendant, who was neither a licensed 
dealer nor a, tavern keeper. Per Stewart, J. — " This is a charge 
laid under the Ordinance 7 of 1873, section 25, which enacts that ' if 
any licensed pei'son or any keeper of a tavern shall sell any intoxicat- 
ing liquors on credit,' etc. The plaint, however, does not allege, nor 
is there a word in the evidence to prove, that the defendant was either 
a licensed person or a keeper of a tavern." 

Appeal, J p Negombo, 8793. The defendant had been charged on an affi- 
davit with cattle stealing. The Justice of the Peace (Ellis) after 
hearing the evidence of the complainant and his witnesses discharged 
the accused, holding that he believed the case to have been entirely got 
up by the peace, officer of the village, In appeal, by the complainant, 
per Creasy, C. J " No appeal lies in a case like this." 



Appeal. P- C. Galle, 85315. This was an appeal against the following or- 

der of the Magistrate (Zee) " Complainant not ready. Struck off. 
The case has been postponed time without end, and I will give no 
further postponement for any cause whatever." Per Creasy, 0. J. — 
" It is ordered that the appeal lodged in this case on the 6th Novem- 
ber, 1873, be dismissed." 



November 18. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart and Cayley, J. J. 

Ordinance F. C. Point Pedro, 13194. The plaint was "that the defendant 

preventing did, on the 21st September, at Vallevuttethurrie on the North-eastern 

''''^*™fish"' °* ""^^ °^ Parrethurrie, within the jurisdiction of the Court and within a 



POLICE COURTS. 



101 



Nov. 26. 



league from the shore, use a net in the sea commonly called " veele 
valey" in catching fish, in breach of the 2nd clause of Ordinance 19 
of 1866 and the Proclamation of 30th October, 1869." The Magis- 
trate {Drieherg) held as follows : " The offence with which the 
defendants are charged is one exceedingly difficult of proof, as is 
evidenced by the fact that there has been as yet no conviction under 
this Ordinance. All the facts in the case are clear, and the only point 
on which there is a conflict of evidence is as to whether defendants 
were picked up within 3 miles of the shore or beyond 3 miles of the 
shore. The evidence on the point that the defendants were picked 
up within a mile of the shore, coupled with all the circumstances of 
the case, is conclusive to my mind a£ to the guilt of the defendan ts. 
The ofience in question is one which acts very prejudicially on the 
fishing trade, and the defendants must be severely punished. The 
defendants are accordingly adjudged to be guilty and are sentenced 
to pay a fine of Ks. 30 each." In appeal, per Stewakt, J. — Affirmed. 



P. C. Matara, E. The defendant was charged, under clause 2 
of Ordinance 24 of 1 848, with having unlawfully cut timber on Crown 
land without a license or permit. The Magistrate (Jumeaux) refused 
to entertain the charge in the following order. " The Ordinance re- 
quires that the Deputy Queen's Advocate should grant a certificate 
that he elects to try the case in the Police Court. There is no certi- 
ficate from the Deputy Queen's Advocate, but only one from the 
Assistant Government Agent. See No. 71,746, P. C. Matara, in 
appeal, dated September 5, 1873." In appeal, per Ckeast, C. J. — 
" Set aside and case sent back for hearing. In the case in Grenier's 
Reports, which has been referred to, there was no certificate by any 
one at all. In the present case there is a certificate by the Assistant 
Government Agent, which is quite sufficient under the terms of Ordi- 
nance 11 of 1868, clause 99, in a matter which affects the revenue." 



Timber 
Ordinance. 
Jurisdiction. 



November 26. 

Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewakt and Catlet, J. J. 
P. C. Avishawella, 16993. The defendant was charged, under the 
4th clause of Ordinance 2 of 1835, with having allowed two head of 
cattle to trespass at night in the Police Magistrate's premises. The 
Magistrate (Byrde) held as follows. " In this case the defence set up 
is that the prosecution should prove that a fence protected the land 
or that the land by local custom required no fence. It is obvious that 



Cattle tres- 
pass. 



Nov. 26. 



102 PART I. — 

at the present time there is no fence on two sides of the Magistrate's 
premises ; bnt inasmuch as the previous Magistrates put up and kept 
a fence to protect their flower garden (it seems that the fences were 
put up by prisoners at the Magistrates' discretion for the convenience 
and pleasure of the Magistrate then residing) and since the with- 
drawal of the prisoners from labouring on Government grounds, it 
cannot be maintained that the public have aright to send their cattle 
to graze on Government premises, disturbing the rest and peace of 
the resident ilagistrate. " The defendant was accoi-dingly found 
guilty and sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 5. In appeal, (^Ferdinands 
for appellant) per Caylet, J. — " Set aside and verdict of acquittal 
entered. Before persons can be criminally convicted under the Or- 
dinance jSTo. 2 of 1835, the requirements of that Ordinance must be 
strictly complied with ; and no person can be fined for cattle trespass, 
unless it is proved that the land trespassed on is protected by such a 
fence, if any, as the local custom may prescribe. In the present ease 
the land is not fenced, and there is no proof that the local custom 
dispensed with any fence. Indeed, it appears from the evidence called 
by the defendants and from the letter of the Police Slagistrate that 
the land formerly used to be fenced. The Police Magistrate appears 
from his letter to suppose that, if the owners of trespassing cattle can- 
not be convicted under the Ordinance, there is no redress for the evil 
complained of. But any person who has been injured or annoyed by 
cattle trespass has his civil remedy, including the right of distraining 
the cattle damage feasant ; for the Ordinance 2 of 1835 has not taken 
away any civil remedy which the original party may have at common 
law, (546«, C. R. Batticaloa, S.C. Min. 31 May, 1866) but has merely 
provided a more summary mode of procedure." 



Labor 



P. C. Matale, 51^\. The defendant, a cangany, was charged, under 
Onl,„a„ce. the 19th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1865, with having seduced away 
from complainant's service a cooly named Adappen, who appeared to 
be a boy of about 12 or 15 years of age. The Magistrate (Penney) 
found as follows. " The Counsel for the defence having stated that 
the witne,sses he proposed to call are to give evidence only to the fact 
of Adappen having volunteered to accompany the accused, the Court 
con.siders that their evidence need not be taken. Considering the 
facts of the case, the t'ourt does not attach much importance to the 
statement made by Adappan, that the accused offered him money and 
other things to accompany him, as this was very probably put forward 
by Adappen as an excuse for bis own fault of desertion. The fact, 
however, remains that the accused was found with the boy Adappan 



PotiCE cotnfrs. 103 

in his company in the middle of the night away from that boy's estate, 
and it is a most reasonable supposition to presume that some encour- 
agement or at least consent must have been given by the accused to 
Adappen before he left his master's estate with him. The accused 
must have been well aware that Adappen had no permission to leave 
the Estate, and the Court is of opinion that his act came within the 
operation of the 19th clause of Ordinance 1 1 of 186.5. The accused 
is convicted and fined Rs. 50 and to pay the expenses of complainant." 
In appeal, (Gremier for appellant) per Catlet, J. — "Set aside and 
sent back in order that the proposed evidence for the defence may be 
heard. If after hearing the evidence the Police Magistrate is satisfied 
that the accused in any way induced the boy Adappen to leave hia 
master's service, the accused should be convicted. But mere assent 
on the part of the accused to allow the boy to accompany him, is not 
sufficient to render him criminally liable under the 19th clause of the 
Labor Ordinance." 



Dec. 2. 



December 2. 
Present Stewart, and Catley, J. J. 
P. C. Panadure, 21911. A charge of assault was disuiissed by the Costs. 
Magistrate {Morgan) who, believing the case to be a false and frivol- 
ous one, made order as follows : " defendants are acquitted and dis- 
charged, and complainant is fined Rs. 15 to be given over to the 
defendants." In appeal, per Caylet, J. — " Affirmed. The complain- 
ant is not fined under the 106th clause of Ordinance 11 of 1868, 
but he is ordered to pay Rs. 15 to the defendants which the Police 
Magistrate no doubt considered to be the amount of their reasonable 
expenses. It is competent to a Police Magistrate to award such ex- 
penses at the trial of the case under the 4th clause of Ordinance 18 
of 1871." 



P. C. Galle, 85539. The defendants were charged, on the 24th Implied sub- 
July, 1873, with assault. After several postponements, the following stitution of 
order was made by the Magistrate (Zee) on the 20th August. Complamant. 

Complain.nnt present Defendants reported to be in concealment. Ex- 
tended to 17th September. 

I have since understood that the complainant is dead. Some one has 
answered to her name when the case was called in the mornine;. Let war- 
rant of arrest issue to defendants, and let comp'ainanfs brother prosecute. 

The case came on for trial on the 22nd Novembei', when after the 
evidence for the prosecution had been closed the defendants' Proctor 
took the objection that the proceedings were irregular, and that, in 
the absence of the complainant on the record, the case should have 



„ „ ("104 PART I. 

Dkc. 9. -< 

been struck ofl. The Magistrate, however, convicted the accused, 
who were each sentenced to three months' hard labor and to pay a 
fine of Rs, 50. 

In appeal, Orenier, for appellant. — There had been in point of fact 
no substitution on the record of a new complainant ; and the leg;al 
objection had been taken at the trial. The irregularity could not be 
held as cured by the defendants having pleaded, for even where one 
prosecutor had been substituted foi another, the Chief Justice was 
of opinion ( Worthingiun's Case) that the proceedings should be 
quashed as illegal. That opinion, though not adopted by a majority 
of the Court at the time, had recently been cited with approval by 
Mr. Justice Cayley in P. C. Matara, 71720 (August 19th); and it 
was open to the Supreme Court to reconsider the point. 

Sed per Stewakt, J, — " Affii-med. The order of August 20, 1 873, 
must be taken as equivalent to an amendment of the plaint," 



December 9. 
Present Stewakt and Catlet, J. J. 
Maintenance, P- C. Galle, 85580. This case, which is reported in page 92, hav- 
ing been sent back for rehearing, the Magistrate (Zee) after record- 
ing further evidence gaveiudgment as follows. "The evidence in 
this case is very simple, but the points of law which have arisen are 
of considerable interest. The defendant is indicted, under section 2 
of the 3rd clause of Ordinance 4 of 1841, for deserting his wife and ' 
child. By a deed of agreement, dated the 8th January, 1868, the 
parties agreed to separate. By the Ist clause of that deed, it was 
agreed that each party should receive back the dowry presents which 
are expressly termed jeweh-y and moveables. No turther provision 
was made by the husband. There is a provision for the dissolution 
of the community of property and an undertaking on the part of the 
wife not to prosecute for maintenance of herself and child. In the de- 
cision given by me on the 25th September, I stated at length my reasons 
tor holding this deed void in law, and on that point the Appellate Court 
approves my ruling. It is proved that the defendant has not since 
the date of this separation made any provision for his wife and child. 
The Supreme Court reversed my former finding, as I apprehend, on the 
ground that there was no evidence of mens rea, and that there was evi- 
dence that the wife had property of her own and that defendant might 
reasonably have supposed that his wife and child were maintained 
out of the proceeds of that property. I have re-examined the wife's 
father, and it ii explained that he has property but that his daughter 
has nothing but the dowry property she brought back with her, 



POLICE COURTS. 105 ) _ 



raluerl at Rs. 4oO. It is clear that this property was not enough to 
maintain tlu; wife and child for more than five years. Supposing it 
to have been enough, it is still questionable whether the indictment 
would not have been sufficiently supported by the evidence as regards 
at least the child, the wife being one of the "others" in the section un- 
der which defendant is indicted. This is a point of some importance 
which still awaits authoritative settlement. The Supreme Court ex- 
pressly reversed the decision in a Matara Case, while holding that a 
mistress was comprehended in the word " others." It is further to be 
remarked that this dowry property was part of the wife's paraphernalia 
—part of the luxury to which her station entitled her — and 1 am not 
prepared to hold that it is competent for a husband to throw his wife 
on her own resources and subject her to menial service for her main- 
tenance, when his means and her position entitled her to exemption 
from that service It is true that the words of the Ordinance are "with- 
out maintenance," but I take it that " maintenance " signifies main- 
tenance in the station to which she is entitled, and that where the 
husband has the means he is bound to furnish his wife with those 
means and not make her chargeable to others for what are to a deli- 
cately nurtured woman necessaries. In this connection I have referred 
to Lord Penzance's judgment in Kelly v. Kelly (L. T. R. xxi, N, S. 
561), and I think my views in this matter are supported by that hio-h 
authority. This being so, I am unable to perceive any grounds fur 
attributing to the defendant a bona fide belief that his wife was not 
supported by others. He must have known her circumstances. It 
was his duty to enquire into them, and if he did not enquire his pre- 
vious knowledge of her as well as a process of ciilculatiDu as to the 
proceeds of the dowry property would have shown liim that his wife 
and child could not but be chargeable to others. It has been stated 
by the learned Counsel who has ably set before me every argument in 
favor of the defendant that she has her recourse in the District Court 
for alimony. Truly she has ; but why should she be driven to use the 
cumbrous and tardy machinery of that Court, when she has a speedy 
method of bringing her husband to his senses ? I do not forget the 
danger of this Court being made the scene for a preliminary trial of 
a suit for the restitution of conjugal rights, but wliera an offence has 
been committed, it is clearly my duty to punii-h the offender. I may 
add that I find that complainant had no property of her (;wn beyond 
the jewelry rendered back to her by her husband ; and that 1 disbe- 
lieve so much of Janis' evidence as goes to show a demand for main- 
tenance, I find the defendant guilty. lie is sentenced to pay a fine 



/ 



D«c. 16. 



106 PART I. 

of Rs. 3, Rs. 4 of which I allot to complainant. I further order that 
the defendant do pay to the complainant her reasonable expenses." 
In appeal, (Layard for appellant, Qrenier for respondent) perCATLur, 
J. — " Affirmed. The Police Magistrate has found as a fact that the 
complainant's property was not sufficient for maintenance of herself 
and her child, regard being had to the condition in life of the parties 
(see 8713, P.O. Harrispatfu, S. C. Minutes, 8th November, 1866); and 
it is also clear that the defendant must have known this, knowing as 
he did the amount of the wife's property." 



December 16. 
Present Stewaet and Caylet, J. J. 
ConTiction i'. C. Galle, 86821. The defendant, who wag the driver of a 

incoiisistent carriage, was charged under clause 8, chapter 23, ot the Municipal 
wi p amt. Bye-laws with having refused to let his vehicle on hire to complainant. 
The Magistrate (Zee) gave judgment as follows : " I find defendant 
guilty of assault. It is clear that Mr. 8cott gave the accused a severe 
beating after he (accused) had attacked him ; and hence I do not 
punish him as severely as I otherwise should. Fined Rs. 10." In 
appeal, (Grenier for appellant) per Stewart, J. — " Set aside. The 
defendant is charged in the plaint with refusmg to let his vehicle on 
hire to the complainant, in breach of a Municipal bye-law. The de- 
fendant, however, has expressly been found guilty of assault, an offence 
not charged nor even alluded to in the plaint. The conviction is 
accordingly set aside. The proceedings are also irregular, in that the 
plaint does not bear the requisite stamp." 



Theft. P. C. Newera Eliya, 8894. The plaint was " that the defendants 

(three in number) did, on the 28th day of February, at Nuwera Eliya, 
steal one table cloth of the value of Rs. 20, the property of the com- 
plainant ; also that the lit defendant did have and receive the said 
property, knowing the same to have been stolen." It appeared from 
the evidence that the complainant (Hawkins) had given the cloth in 
question to his dhoby, the 2nd defendant, to be washed ; that subse- 
quently, the 2nd and .3rd defendants were seen selling the same to the 
Hambodde rest-housekeeper, the 1st defendant. In the course of the 
investigation, the complainant's Proctor moved to withdraw the charge 
against the 3rd defeniliint and make him a witness in the case. The 
Magistrate [Hartshorne) however refused the motion, and, having 
found the 2nd and 3rd accused guilty, sentenced each of them to 



POLICE COURTS. 107 ) ^a 

> Ubc. 16. 

twenty-one days' hard labour. In appeal, (Grenier for Srd appellant) 
perSTEWAET, J. — ''Affirmed as to the 2nd defendant ; set aside as to 
the Srd defendant. The charge against the 3rd defendant is not for 
receiving, but only for theft. There is no evidence to show that this 
defendant stole the table cloth. The evidence points to the 2nd de- 
fendant as the actual thief." 



P. C. Kandy; 96l}9. The question in this case was whether the ForcibU 
Agent of a Receiver appointed by the District Court of Kandy was entry, 
justified, while taking possession of a Coflfee Estate, in using force to 
the extent of breaking open the door of the Estate bungalow and 
threatening to kick out the complainant it he did not leave. The 
plaint, as filed of record, was as follows : . 

"That the 1st defendant, aided and abetted by the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th 
defendants, did on the 21st instant take forcible possession of certain 
moveable property belonging to Mr. H. E A. Yoang, Senior, and also of 
the Bungalow on the Keremettia Estate, of which the complainant then had 
the possession and occupation as the Agent of Dr. Dodsworth, who is the 
proprietor of the said Estate, in breach of the Proclamation of the .5th 
Augnst, 1819. 

On the case for the prosecution being closed, the defendant's Proctor 
addressed the Court, justifying the conduct of the accused, and con- 
tending that the plaint was defective in that the words " without the 
authority of a competent Magistrate'' and -'to avenge themselves for 
an injury," were omitted. The complainant's Proctor, who was heard 
in reply, moved to be allowed to amend the plaint ; but this was dis- 
allowed by the Magistrate (Stewart) who held as follows : " It 
is not denied that the first defendant was employed by Mr. 
Duncan, a Receiver appointed by the District Court, to take 
charge of the crops, and of the Keremattia estate, and that to 
carry out the functions of a Receiver, the 1st defendant on the 
day in question proceeded to the Estate in company with the 
2nd defendant, the former Superintendent, and the Srd defendant, 
the agent of Messrs Mackwood and Co., the mortgagees of the 
Estate. Besides the question of amendment lastly raised, a question 
of law more important, and which is connected with the one of 
fiict, has also been raised in this case, namely, whether a Receiver 
has the right also of possession. The Court will first consider 
this question, as in the consideration of it, it will be necessary 
to see how far possession, alleged to have been forcible, was necessary 
or incidental to the exercise of the functions of a Receiver, 
that office implying competent authority, the absence of which. 



D.C. 16. {!"« ^^"^^- 

it is important to remark, creating the offence. For its exercise, 
it cannot be denied that possession was necessary, and if not 
expressed it must be implied, as incidental powers need not be 
expressed. It could not have been expected or intended that 
the Receiver should receive the crops and without having a 
place to go to to occupy the estate. Nothing could be more 
inconsistent with the power conferred. Possession therefore was not 
inconsistent but aecessary in the eisercise of the power ; and thia, 
brings the Court to the consideration of the queatioa how far the 
evidence under the circumstances supports the charge. It is evident 
that the defendants acted bona fide, with only apparently an hones^ 
determination of simply doing their duty in as harmless and inoflen-. 
sive a manner as possible : one and all seem to have been actuated by 
the same forbearance. There is nothing to warrant the conclusion, 
that they committed or even meant violence, and intimidation was 
neither attempted nor effected. On the contrary, it would appear 
that complainant was anything but intimidated ; for, acting under the 
advice of his friend, he sought to be ousted, returned to have that 
formally effected, and actually courted it ; but even then, when a differ., 
ent action might have b«en excusable, first defendant led him out, 
according to complainant himself, simply holding him by the arm, and 
that too after the authority had been produced and read. Such for-, 
bearance was certainly not consistent with force. It was more consist 
tent with what appears to be the fact, that they were acting in accor^ 
dance with the law than at variance with it. That should be the 
reasonable inference under the circumstances, especially in view of 
the forbearance that has been proved by complainant's own evidence } 
the law presuming, where an authority exists, as in this instance, to 
take possession, that such authority was legally and properly exercised 
till the contrary has been satisfactorily shewn. It is not like the case 
without any authority, and it is where parties actwithout even the 
semblance of one that the proclamation wSs intended to apply. The 
only witnesses called are complainant and his friend, Mr. Edema. 
They contradict each other in more than one important point, and the 
contradiction in regard to the key is as important as it is significant. 
It negatives the statement that force was used in opening the door, 
It would also appear that 2nd defendant had property of his in the 
bungalow. The Court will now consider the question of amendment 
under the existing rules. It is aware that amendment may be per-, 
mitted at any stage of a case ; but this rule, it does not think, was 
meant to operate in a case like the present, where any number of 
ai]iendments could not help the complainant, could not alter or meud 



POLICE COURTS. 109 

facts, his own, nor make that an oftence which nothing in the case, 
either in law or fact, could convert it into. As already indicated, the 
charge of forcible possession is without the least foundation. The 
rule was intended to prevent a failure of justice where an offence 
was clear, and hence the wisdom of, and the necessity for, the rule. 
But in this case, to permit the amendment would be to defeat the object 
of the rule and to favour oppressive and frivolous litigation. The 
defendants are found not guilty." 

In appeal, Orenier, for appellant. — The plaint was no doubt defec- 
tive, but the motion to amend having been made before judgment, the 
Magistrate should have allowed it. The 1st defendant (Maitland) 
had no authority from the District Court, and only pretended to act 
(ts the Agent of the Receiver (Z)ancaB) of whose appointment, however, 
no record whatever had been produced at the trial or formally put in 
evidence! not even Maitland's alleged agency had been legally es- 
tablished. The complainant had proved the use of such force on the 
part of the accused as would justify a conviction under the Proclama- 
tion. The Fiscal, as the ministerial oflScer of the District Court, was 
the proper party to have placed the Receiver in possession ; and any 
resistance then by the complainant or others would properly have been 
punished as contempt of Court. 

Sed per CA-viiET, J. — *' Affirmed. The Supreme Court has repeated-' 
ly held that a charge under the Proclamation in question must allege 
that the entry was made '• without the authority of a competent Ma- 
gistrate," See 4374, P, C. Ratnapura, Beling and Vanderstraaten, p. 
73, The plaint in the present case is defective in this respect. No 
amendment was applied for until the case for the prosecution was 
closed, and the counsel for the defendants had addressed the Court j 
and, in view of the special circumstances of this case, and particularly 
of the fact that the defendants a,cted under the bona-fide belief that 
they had the authority qf the District Court, the Supreme Court does 
not think thsvt the discretion of the Police Magistrate in refusing the 
amendment at so late a stage should be interfered vvith." 



Dec. 16. 



P. C. Matara, 72795. The charge was " that the defendant did, on n f t" 
the 3rd day of December, 1873, at Matara Oarawe, keep or suffer to plaint, 
be kept a land or garden in a filthy state or overgrown with rank or 
poisome vegetation, so as to be a nuisance to, or injurious to the health 
of, the persons in the neighbourhood, in breach of the 1st clause of 
Ordinance 15 of 1862." The Magistrate (Jumeaux) held as follows : 
''The evidence ah-eady adduced, tojjelher with defendant's second 



Dbc. 23. 



(110 PART I.— 

plea," (of guilty) " put the matter beyond all doubt. The Assistant 
Government Agent interceded on behalf of ail the parties uited to-day 
under similar charges, and I consented to let them all oil with nominal 
fines on condition they pleaded guilty, so that should the thing recur 
again they could have no excuse. Defendant however refused to plead 
guilty, and wished to fight out the matter. He is found guilty (beyond 
all doubt), and sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 10.'' 

In appeal, per Stewart, J. — " Set aside, and case remanded for fur, 
ther hearing. That the defendant is the owner or occupier of (he 
land in question is sufficiently to be inferred from his being charged 
in the plaint with keeping the land in a filthy state, in breach of the 
clause of the Ordinance referred to. The evidence adduced esta- 
blishes the fact: such an objection is too late after conviction. It 
does not, however, appear from the proceedings that the land is in w 
near any road or public thoroughfare. This is a cjrcumslance tb»{ 
should be established, and the case is accordingly remanded for that 
purpose, as well as for further evidence generally, Dr, Keith should 
himself be examined, instead of his opinion being taken second hand, 
as seemingly has been done. The plaint should he amended by its 
being added (if such be the fact) that the land is in or near a road, 
street or public thoroughfare, (in terms of the Ordinance.) We have 
further to point out that it ia the duty of the Magistrate to try causes 
laid before him and to adjudicate upon the evidence, and it is no part 
of his duty, and it is altogether irregular for him, to consent " to let 
parties off with nominal fines on condition that they pleaded guilty." 
Accused parties should be quite unfettered, and left to plead guilty 
or not of their own fipee will, uninflvtejiced by any proniise or expeoi 
tation of clemency i" 



December 23. 
Present Stewakt and Cailet, J. J. 
Forcible P- C. Galagedera, 19338. A conviction, on a charge offbrcible 

entry. entry under the Proclamation of August 5th, 1819, was set aside by 
Mr, Justice Stewart iu the following terms : " The plaint is defective, 
in that it rloos not state that the land was in the occupation of the 
complainant. The evidence also on the plaint is of a very uncertaia 
character. The defendant, it would appear. Uvea on a portion of the 
land, and it is not shewn that the complainant occupies or resides on 
any part. Besides, according to the last witness for the prosecution, 
the six lahas (where the 1st defendant resides) was the portion where 
the defendant picke 1 cofiee." {Ferdinands for appellant.) 



rOLICE COXJKTS. Ill 



Die. 2S. 



P, C. Puitalam, 6559. This was a charge of assault and cocoanut Wrong 
stealing. On the morning of the day fixed for the trial, the complain- '^ " 

ant happening to be absent when the parties' names were called the 
case was dismissed. Shortly after (on the same day) he tendered an 
affidavit, explaining that he had been unavoidably delayed ten min- 
utes, having had to come to Court from a great distance, but the 
Magistrate (Pole) refused to interfere in the following order: "com- 
plainant brings an affidavit which is torn up. He was absent when 
the case was called. The case has been dismissed." In appeal, per 
Catlet, J. — " Set aside and sent back for trial. Assuming the com- 
plainant's affidavit to be true, we think that he sufficiently accounted 
for his absence when the case was called on. He appears from his 
affidavit to have been only 10 minutes late. The absence of the ori- 
ginal affidavit having been accounted for, we have assumed the copy 
filed to be correct." 



P. C. Kalutara, 49704. Fobr defendants were convicted under Timber 
the 5th section of Ordinance 24 of 1848, and were each sentenced by Ordinance, 
the Magistrate (Power) to pay a fine of Rs. 50. In appeal, per Catley, 
J. — " Altered by the amount of fine being reduced to Es. 50, as one fine 
for one offence, and it is adjudged that the defendants do pay the 
said sum. Affij-med in other respects. The offence charged is fell- 
inp; a tree on Crown land without a license, and is in its nature single, 
and the penalty imposed by the Ordinance must accordingly be taken 
to be single. See B. and V., per S. C. Balepitimodera, P. C. 23132, 
citing Rex v. Clark, 2 Cowp. 612." 



P.C. Ka/utara, 49991. This was a charge of "riotous and disor- nisorderlv 
derly conduct" under the 6th clause of .Ordinance 16 of 1865. The conduct. 
Magistrate (Power) having proceeded to try the defendant then and 
there without summons, convicted him in the following judgment. 
" The accused, who is still drunk and has disturbed the Court for the 
greater part of the day, is found guilty and sentenced to 3 months' 
hard labor." In appeal, per Caylet, J. — "Set aside and conviction 
quashed. In this case a new plaint correctly worded should be en- 
tered and regularly proceeded with after summons to the defendant. 
The charge is laid under the 6th clause of Ordinance 16 of 186-1, but 
this clause has no application to the offence complained of. It is, no 
doubt, a mistake for the 6th article of the 53rd clause. This article, 
however, has been expressly repealed by Ordinnnce 7 of 1 873, and a 



Dec. 31. { ^^^ ^^'*^ '— 

difterent punishment prescribed foi* the oflence in qftestidn. It it 
however irregular to bring a man to Court for being drunk and dis- 
orderly and to try him then and there, while he is still drunk, as 
the Police Magistrate states was the case in the present instance, 
and consequeiitly unable prcperly to conduct his defence, if he has 
any." 

Preserration P. C. Point Pedro, 13321. The plaint was " that the defendants 
of Fish. ^jj^ pjj tjjg 20th instant, at Katcovalam on the north- esatem side 
of Pallalethurey within a league Irom the shore, use al net in the 
sea commonly called " valie valey,'* in catching fish, in breach of 
the 2nd clause of Ordinance 19 of 1866, and the Proclamation dated 
20th October, 1869." The Magistrate (ZJrjeJerg') acquitted the ac- 
cused in the following judgment: "By the Proclamation of October 
1869, (see Gazette of November 6,1869,) the use of the net in 
question is " prohibited within one leagile of the shore to the East 
of Pallalethurey on the N. W. coast of the peninsula of JaSna." In 
this case the defendants are charged with having Used the net 
called " valie valey " at Katcovalam, on the N. E. of Pallalethurey 
within one league of the shore. According to the Map of Ceylon 
published by Smith and Son, Charing Cross, the extreme Eastern 
limit of Pallalethurey is Point Pedro, or the point locally known as 
' Devil's Point,' (sje Tamil map of Ceylon, published at Madras by 
S. John, 1872,) and Katcovalam is South East of this point. As I 
interpret the Proclamation, it appears to me that Katcovalam does 
not come within its operation." In appeal, per Stewart, J. — "Set 
aside and remanded for hearing. If the net was used within a league 
of the shore to the East of any part of Pallalethurey, it appears 
to us that the accused would be liable under the Proclamation. We 
also think that if the place where the net was used was not more to 
tlie North than to the East of the Pallalethurey shore, the case would 
still be within the Ordinance." 



December 31. 

Present Creasy, C. J., Stewart and CiTLiiy, J J. 

Maintenance. P- C. Negombo, 29055. The defendant was charged, under the 

Jurisdiction. Vagarant Ordinance, with not maintaining his wife and child. The 

only witness in the case was the brother of the complainant, and he 

deposed as follows: " The defendant's permanent residence has been 

Colombo. The complainant used to live there with the defendant, 

but the defendant struck her. The complainant then went to live 



POLICE COURTS. 113 I j^^ 3, 



with her parents at UdugampoUa in this district. 1 am sure Colombo Maintenance . 

is the head-quarters of the defendant and that he never lived with the Jurisdiction. 

complainant in this district. He has deserted her for several years, 

and lives with a mistress." The Magistrate (Leisching) held as 

follows: " According to the evidence of the only witness called, the 

alleged oflfence did not take place within the jurisdiction of this Court, 

and the fact that previous cases were tried in this Court is no bar to 

defendant's taking the plea of jurisdiction. The defendant takes the 

objection and pleads want of jurisdiction on the part of this Court. 

Objection upheld. Defendant discharged." 

/m a/)peaZ, by complainant, per Stewart, J. — "Set aside and re- 
manded for further hearing. The complainant, it would appear, has 
since her separation, several years ago, from her husband (the defend- 
ant) resided in the district of Negombo, though she had lived before 
in CDlombo with the defendant who still lives there. It is not sug- 
gested however, nor is there any ground for supposing, that the com- 
plainant merely changed her residence to the village where she now 
lives for Ihe purpose of instituting this prosecution in the Police Court 
of Negombo with the view of harassing the defendant. The Ordin- 
ance under which the plaint is laid makes it an oflence for any person, 
who is able to support his family, to leave his wife or child without 
maintenance, whereby they shall become chargeable to others. No 
particular place is specified. We must conclude, therefore, that in 
whatever place the wife or child of a person is left destitute, such 
person would render himself liable under the Ordinance and be com- 
mitting an offence in the place where he leaves his wife or child with- 
out maintenance. The plea of jurisdiction is accordingly over-ruled, 
and the trial will proceed in due course. As respects the merits of 
the case, the Magistrate's attention is requested to the judgment of 
the Supreme Court in Pantura P. C, 4620, December 3rd, 1863, re- 
ported in Beling's Handy Book, Part 2, page 40." 

P. C. Galle, 85468. Twenty-five defendants, who were liable to Comrantation 
pay the poll-tax and who had not elected to commute, were charged, Rate. 
under the 54th clause of Ordinance 10 of 1861, "with having failed Irregular con- 
to attend to perform labor at the time and place appointed for that Y^*:'V™ '""' 
purpose." In appeal, by the 4th defendant who had been fined "defendants? 
B» 4, the judgment was set aside; and per Ceeast, C. J. — " This man 
has been convicted without any evidence having been taken and with- 
out a plea of guilty. The joinder of this large number of defendants 
in one charge was seriously improper, there being no proof that they 
were acting in concert with each other." 



7 



THE APPEAL REPORTS. 



1873. 



PART II.— COURTS OF REQUESTS. 



Jammry 14. 
Present Creasy, C. J. 
C.'R.Pamdure,\^<a%5. The plaintiff claimed a land called Dewa- Claim to 
watunewatte, by right of purchase from the Crown, as against tli^ ^^™^^ ^*°°^j 
first and second defendants, who pleaded that it was their ancestral evidence o£ 
property which they had possessed for more than 50 years. The 3rd ■ poaaession. 
defendant (the Queen's Advocate) was made a party to the suit, to 
warrant and defend plaintiff's title or cause the purchase amount to 
be refunded. No parol evidence was adduced on behalf of the 1st 
and 2nd defendants, who relied on a thombo extract, a government 
grant, a planting voucher and a certain deed of agreement, which 
they contended estopped both the plaintiff and the Crown from 
questioning their title. The Commissioner, however, gave judgment 
for plaintiff for the land, absolving the 3rd defendant from the 
instance with costs. In appeal, per Cebast, C. J, — " Affirmed. The 
burden of proof, as to the land not being crown land, was thrown by 
Ordinance on the plaintiff'. He has not sufficiently proved it to be 
private property. Some of the documentary evidence put in by him 
is entitled to consideration, and has received it. But none of that 
evidence amounts to an estoppel ; and as it is left wholly unsupport- 
ed by the parol evidence of possession and occupation, which ia 
naturally expected in such cases, the verdict against the plaintiff 
must stand." 



C. R. Trincomalie, 28305, Plaintiff sought to recover a sum of Action for 
Rs. 36, being wages, for nine months, as defendant's cook. The de- wages not cou- 
fendant denied the contract, and alleged that his uncle had en- ^^^ ^<"^' 
gaged the plaintiff to cook for him while he was at school in 
India ; and that he himself had been no party to any agreement to pay 
wages. The Commissioner (Green) held that defendant, having 
benefited by plaintiff's services, without the latter receiving any 
compensation therefor, was liable to pay the amount claimed, and 



•PAET II.— 



Jan. 21. 



accordingly gave judgment as prayed for in the libel. In apptal, 
(Dm for appellant) per Creasy, C. J. — "Set aside, and judgment 
of non-suit to be entered with costs. It is quite clear that the 
defendant was never a party to the contract with plaintiff, either 
expressly or by implication." 



Janiuxry 21. 

Present Creasy, C. J. 

Promissory C R. Kandy, 47883. The plaintiff sued, on a promissory note, to 
Note : nonsuit recover from the defendant, who was the maker thereof, a sum of £8. 
without costs, rpjjg clefendant, admitting the document, pleaded want of consideration, 
in th at it had been granted for a balance due by him in respect of a land 
which he had piu-chased from the plaintiff, under a deed bearing the 
same date as tlie note, but which land the plaintiff had failed to put 
him entirely in possession of, in consequence of a judgment of the 
District Court interfering with his right to do so. The note was a 
promise to pay £8, " being balance due for the purchase of a certain 
land, to be paid without any interest soon after the land is clearly 
freed from dispute and plaintiff puts me (defendant) in possession 
thereof." The plaintiff, in his examination, stated that he had re- 
ceived the £8, " to carry on the case which was then pending about 
the land." The defendant's proctor having called no evidence, but 
merely put in the case above referred to, the Commissioner gave judg- 
ment for plaintiff with costs. In appeal, the judgment was set aside 
and a judgment of non-suit entered ; and per Creasy, C.J. — "The 
document on which alone the plaintifi sues, taken with the admitted 
fact of the dispute as to the title, puts the plaintiff out of Court. The 
defendant has not contradicted the plaintiff's statements ; and, if they 
are taken as true, they show very discreditable conduct on the part of 
the defendant. The non-suit will therefore be without costs." 



Irregular C B. Galle, 20. Plaintiff claimed five kurunies of a certain field 

*""'• on a bill of sale dated 28th December; 1867, as against the 1st and 2nd 
defendants ; the 3rd defendant, (the vendor, who was an administrator,) 
being joined to warrant and defend plaintiff's title. The 1st defendant 
pleaded he was entitled to 5-24ths of the field in question, which portion 
he had leased to 2nd defendant. The 3rd defendant supported 
plaintiff's title, justifying the sale on the ground that the property 
belonged to his intestate. On the day of trial, the 3rd defendant alone 
being present, the proceedings as recorded by the Commissioner (Lee) 
were as follows : " 3rd defendant examined. This land belonged to 
the estate, I sold it to plaintiff. The 1st and 2nd defendants have 
no right to what I thus sold. 3rd defendant has no witnesses present. 



COURTS OP RE(iUESTS. "^ I j^^^ gl, 

Judgment as prayed against 3rd defendant. Costs to be paid by hira 
personally, not out of the estate. Deed to be cancelled." In appeal, 
the judgment was set aside, and case sent back for further hearing ; 
and per Creasy, C. J.—" For all that has hitherto been proved, the 
plaintiff may still be in possession of the land. The 1st and 2nd 
d'efendants only claim title to 5-24ths of the land in question." 

C. R. Colombo, 86215, The facts of the case are sufficiently set Crown grant, 
forth in the judgment of the Commissioner: " The plaintiffs in this Kes judicata, 
case sue for one half of Kuttombagahakumbere, which they claim by 
virtue of a decree in their favor, pronounced in District Court, Colombo, 
23556, and by prescriptive possession. The defendants claim it nndter 
a Crown grant, dated 29th July, 1870. The judgment in case 23556 
would be a bar to the claim of the defendants, were it not that they 
now produce a grant in their favor, d'ated subsequent to the judgment 
in case 23556. The question in the present action is, whether the 
Crown had any right to sell this land. By the Ordinance 12 of 1840, 
sec. 6, " all forest, waste, unoccupied or uncultivated lands, shall be 
presumed to be the property of the Crown, until the contrary thereof 
be proved." The evidence adduced in this case, taken in connec- 
tion with that given in case 23556, does not rebut this presumption. 
The 1st plaintiff"'s husband died in 1850 or 1851, and from that time 
up to the decision of the District Court case in 1859, the plaintiffs 
had nothing to do with this field. (See 1st plaintiff's examination in 
District Court case.) In 1863, when Mr. Leitch surveyed this pro- 
perty, it was waste land. The witnesses who now swear that the 
plaintiffs have been cultivating the field for the last 30 years, cannot 
therefore be believed, and the Crown grant in 1st defendant's favor 
must necessarily be upheld." 

■In appeal, Bias, for the appellant, contended that the District Court 
judgment of 1859 inter partes was res Judicata, and that the present 
plaintiffs having then based their title on a deed, the maker of which 
had himself obtained' a Government grant in 1829, it was for the 
defendants to show that the Crown, having once parted with its 
title, had recovered it, so as to be able to sell a second time in 1870. 
Morgan, for the respondent, relied on the evidence of the Govern- 
ment Surveyor and its legal effect under the provisions of Ordinance 
12 of 1840. 

Per Cke4St, C. J. — "Set aside and judgment entered for appeU 
lants as prayed, except as to damages. It appears that the old judg- 
ment in 1859, between these parties, decided that these plaintiffs 
were owners of the land. This is res judicata. It outweighs, as 
against these defendants, the presumption created by the Ordinance 
12 of 1840, that this land was Crown land. In the absence of proof 
that the plaintiffs had parted with the land after the judgment in 
1859, that judgment is still conclusive as against these defendants." 



^ , . ■> 4 PART n.— 

Feby. 14. j 

Notarial C. R. Matale, 27994. Plaintiff sued for the recovery of Es. 49, 

mortgage, being value of the produce of a garden, which said produce defen- 
dant had, by a notarial deed, specially mortgaged to plaintiii in 
lieu of interest due on a debt. Defendant denied the execution of the 
document, and pleaded minority. The deed was duly proved, but the 
Commissioner (Temple J non-suited the plaintiff with costs, holding 
•• that the evidence as to damage was too weak to place any reliance 
upon, and the deeds were, at least, suspicious." 

In appeal, Morgan, for the appellant, urged that no reason having 
been assigned by the 7udge for considering the deed suspicious, .the 
evidence of the notary and witnesses, who were examined at the 
trial, should be deemed conclusive. If such solemn documents conlcJ 
be' so arbitrarily rejected, of what use were notarial attestations ? 
Dias, for the respondent, was not heard. 
Per Creast, C. J. — Affirmed. 



Fehruary 14. 
Present Creasy, C. J. 

Award under C, B. Avishawella, 8481. This was an action to recover the 
an arbitra- value of 2 hal trees,- alleged to have been unlawfully cut by 
"'"' defendant on plaintiff's land. The defendant pleaded that the 

trees had stood on his own land, and that he had a perfect 
right to cut them. By consent of parties, the case was referred 
to arbitration ; and, on the delivery of the award into Couit, 
the Oommisioner made the following order : " The award o£ 
the arbitrators is filed. Mr. Marshall raises the objection that 
the wording of the award, 'I consider that the defendant 
should pay Rs. 35, being value of 2 hal trees, etc,' is not a 
final award. This sentence when read in connection with the' 
one immediately preceding, proves the meaning and intent o£ 
the award. I therefore hold the award fiaal, and make the same 
an order of Court." In appeal, the defendant, in his petition, 
urged that the awai'd was void, inasmuch as neither the original 
document not its translation was stamped ; and that, as the 
question of title involved in the case had not been settled, the 
circumstance of the plaintiff's and defendant's lands being con- 
tiguous to each other, with the boundaries undefined, woulcl 
give rise to further litigation. The order was, however, affirm- 
ed ; and per Cbeasy, 0. J.—" Appeal dismissed. If the ap- 
pellant had any valid objection to make to the award, he should 
have done so by application to the Commissioner of the Court of 
Bequests, either to ref ev back the award under tbe 26th section, 



COUETS OF REQUESTS. 5 f 1,1^.3^, 21 



or to set it aside under the 27th sectioii, of the Ordinance. 
Neither of these courses was taken. An objection raised, though 
informally, was properly considered by the Commissioner to be 
invalid. A new string of objections cannot be brought before 
the Supreme Court, as now attempted." 



[fe 



C. B. Oalagedere, 30091. The plaintiff in this case sued for Depositum. 
the recovery of certain articles, of the value of lis, 97. 50, which 
be alleged to have delivered over to defendant for safe custody. 
The evidence disclosed that the deposit had been made wiih 
defendant's father-in-law, one Menikralle, some years previously. 
He having died, and the defendant having succeeded to his pro- 
perty, plaintiff now sought to enforce bis claim against fcer. 
The Commissioner held that the delivery of the articles by 
plaintiff to the father-in-law had been satisfactorily proved ; 
but that, as the present action had been instituted after the 
death ot Menikralle, from whom no receipt was produced and 
who might have lost the goods or returned them to the plain- 
tiff, the present defendant could not be held liable. In appeal, 
the judgment was aflirmed; and per Ceeast, C. J.— "Non-suit 
afiSrmed ; not for the reasons given in the Commissioner's judg- 
ment, but because the plaintiff has failed on the real and sole 
issue raised in the case, namely, as to the delivery of the 
goods to the defendant. Plaintiff has proved a delivery not to 
her but to one Menikralle, her father-in-law; audit does not 
even appear that she is Menikralle's legal representative. As to 
the loss by " dolus" or " culpa lata," for which alone a deposi- 
tary, who did not ask for the deposit, is responsible, see Thomp. 
son's Institutes, vol. 2, page 350; Herbert's Grotius, page 316, 
Voet ad Pandectas, XVI, 3, 7, and Poste's Gains, page 396." 



February 21. 

Present Ceeast, C. J. 

44059 
C. B. Galk, 44895- Plaintiff sued to recover Rs. 50, as Abatement 
damages consequent on the cloth of his billiard table having of damages. 
been out by defendant. Judgment in the first instance went by 
default, but it was subsequently opened up on afSdavits. Plain- 
tiff in his evidence stated. — "I produce table of rules which 
was on the wall. The first cut is Rs. 50. At the Oriental 
Hotel, it is Rs. 100. I said I would^take Rs. 20, if paid 



Feby. 28. 



6 PART ir. — 

at the end of the month. Defendant was a customer, aacT 
this was the first cut. I asked for the Rs. 20, but my serrant 
always brought back an impertinent answer. After judgment by 
default, defendant wrote and offered me Rs. 35." The Commia- 
sioner gave judgment as follows : — "Plaintiff having offered to 
abate a part of the charge, it would be equitable to decree defen- 
dant to pay plaintiff Rs. 35 with costs. In appeal, affirmed. 



February 28. 

Present Ceeast, C. J. 

Eesistration. C. B. Guile, 151. The law and the facts of the case are fallj- 
Priority of set forth in the following judgment of the Chief Jastice.— 
eeds. ,, ggj. ^gjijg^ g^jjij plaintiff's claim dismissed with costs. This is a 

dispute as to priority between conflicting mortgages. The 
plaintiff's deed is dated 29th December, 1866, but it was not 
registered until 18th July, 1871. The defendant's deed is dated 
May 1871,. and was registered on the 7.th of June 1871, that is,, 
while the plaintiff's deed was yet unregistered. The plaintiff 
appears to have issued a writ and to have pointed out this pro- 
perty for seizure, and the defendant clai^ned it on April ISth^ 
1873, The defendant now contends,. that his priority of registra- 
tion entitles him to pre-pay ment.. The plaintifll contended, and 
the Commissioner has ruled,, that, inasmuch as the plaintiff's 
deed was registered prior to the making of the defendant's 
adverse claim before the Fiscal, the requirements of the Regis- 
tration Ordinance have been satisfied, so far as this deed is con- 
cerned, and that the plaintiff is entitled to avail himself of his 
deed's priority in point of date. The 39th clause of the Ordi- 
nanee is as follows: ' Every deed, jud;jment, order, or othes 
' instrument as aforesaid, unless so registered, shall be deemed 
' void as against all parties claiming an adverse interest thereto 
'on valuable consideration, by virtue of any subsequent deed, 
'judgment, order or other instrument, which shall have been 
' duly registered as aforesaid. Provided, however, that fraud 
' or collusion in obtaijiing such last mentioned deed, judgment, 
• order, or other instrument, or in securing such prior registra- 
'tion, shall defeat the priority of the person claiming there- 
' under ; and that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to 
' give any greater effect or diffcu-ent construction to any deed, 
'judgment, order, or cither instrument registered in pursuance 
' hereof, save the priority hereby conferred on it.' It appears to- ■ 
me that, according to this Ordinance, when the defendant regis- 
tei-ed Lis deed on the 7th of June, 1871, the plaintiff's deed, being 



COUETS CF KEQtTESTS. 7 T jij,,,^ 28 



tli«ii unregistered, was a nullity, as against the defendant's 
registered deed. I think also, that no subsequent registration 
by the plaintifl could give plaintlH's deed validity, except subject 
,to the priority which the defendant had already obtained. Sach 
appears to me to be the most natural meaning of this somewhat 
confused and ill-worded clause; and this opinion is much 
strengthened by a consideration of the purpose of the Legisla- 
ture iti tbis matter, and by considering which interpretation 
will effectuate that purpose, and which would thwart it. The 
clear object of the Legislature was to protect honest purchaseis 
and creditors. A man, when asked to advance money to 
another, looks naturally to ascertain what are the borrower's 
means of payment. If he finds that the borrower is the ostensi- 
ble owner of any landed property, he naturally searches the 
register to see what, if any, encumbrances there are on it. If 
the register shows no encumbrances, he advances his money 
on a deed which he carefully registers, and thinks himself safe, 
as lie ought to be, and as he will be, according to the construction 
which I put on the Ordinance, But if some other man has got a 
stale old deed of encumbrance in his pocket, which the register 
does not reveal, and this stale old incumbrance is only suddenly 
registered when the debtor is about to be sold up, and if this 
stale deed were then to be allowed to over-ride the deed registered 
before it, the whole system of Registration would be turned 
from a security into a mockery and a snare ; and encourage- 
ment would be given to frauds wbioh the law specially desired 
to prevent." 



C. JJ. Jaffna, 736. Plaintiff sued to recover Rs. 22, being Account 
balance due on an account stated. Defendant denied the debt. stated. 
Plaintifif, in his examination, stated " my account is headed 
N. M. Sader Saibo, which is defendant's brother's name. Some 
of the things included in hia brother's account were given to 
defendant. He came and purchased himself on some occasions." 
The Commissioner held that the evidence in the case was 
"strong against the defendant," and gave judgment for plaintifT. 
In wppeal, the judgment was set aside, and a non-suit entered 
with costs. And per Oeeast, C. J.—" The fact that the plain- 
tiff in his books entered the defendant's brother and not the 
defendant as his debtor, is so very strong that it requires much 
more to get over it than the plaintiflf's assertion that he entered 
the defendant's accounts in his brother's account. He gives no 
reason whatever for such an unbusiness-like proceeding. The 
payment spoken to by the witnesses may well have been made 
by the defendant on his brother's behalf." 



March 7 



8 rjiiiT :i. — 



Loan. 0. B. Jaffna, 727. Plaintiff sued to recover Ra. 35, being 

money lent to defendant, who denied having borrowed, 
The Commissioner non-suited the plaintiff, holding that " ao 
large a sum of money as Bs. 35 being lent without a written 
acknowledgement from defendant, is more than the Court can 
believe." In appeal, the judgment was set aside, and case sent 
back for further hearing; and per Creasy, C. J. — " There is no 
law requiring a writing in the case of a loan of Bs. 35; nor 
does it seem reasonable to reject respectable parol evidence of 
such a loan. But as the Commissioner reports that the 
evidence has not left a favorable impression on his mind, the 
case is merely sent back for further hearing. Let the plaintiff 
be called upon to produce his memorandum of the loan and the 
list of his dealings, spoken of in his, examination. Plaintiff 
could not put such documents in evidence on his own behalf, 
but the Judge may very properly examine them, and see if they 
corroborate or contradict what he has stated." 



March 7. 

Present Creasy, C. J. 

Money lent. C. R. Jaffna, 764. The plaintiffs, alleging that they had, on 
the 15th of June last, paid and satisfied theamount of a debt bond 
which they bad previously executed in favor of the defendant 
fox Bs. 80, brought the present action to compel them to grant a 
valid receipt or refund the money with interest thereon at the 
rate of 9 per cent per annum from the alleged date of payment. 
The defendant denied the payment, but the Commissioner held 
the same duly proved, and gave judgment for plaintiff as prayed 
for. In appeal, per Creasy, 0. J. — " Set aside and judgment 
of non-suit to be entered. There is no authority for maintain- 
ing such an action. The plaintiff ought to tender a stamped 
receipt, and if the defendant refuses to sign it, he should pro- 
ceed as directed by the Stamp Ordinance, section 22, Ordinance 
23 of 1871." 



Damages. C. B. Kegalla, 13162. This was an action to recover Rs. 55, 
being value of a bullock unlawfully shot and killed by defendant. 
In addition to the evidence of the witness who was disbelieved 
at the trial, the plaintiff called the Eatamahatmeya's peon, who 
stated that he saw complainant's bullock lying shot in a ditch 
below defendant's garden, where he found blood marks indicating 
that the animal had been dragged across the ground. The 

a 



eOXTETS OW BEQUESTS. 9 

Commissioner gave judgment as follows : " I do not consider 
the case is satisfactorily proved. The evidence of the last 
witness amounts to nothing. The evideaoe of complainant as to 
the shooting is only supported by his first witness, a gentleman 
whose evidence can scarcely be thought worth much. Thera 
remains the peon's evidence, which only proves an animal was 
killed in defendant's garden. I dare say plaintiff's animal may 
have been shot by defendant, but I don't believe any one saw him 
do it. In, appeal, {Grenier for appellant) per CriSast, 0. J.— 
"Set aside, and judgment entered for plaintiff for Ra. 45 and 
costs. It is not safe to take an owner's valuation of his own 
property to the full amount. The Commissioner, in the conclu- 
sion of his judgment, states, ' I dare say plaintiff's amimal may 
hdve been sbot by defendant, bat I don't believe any one saw 
him do it.' But not even in criminal ctises is it necessary to 
produce a witness who actually saw the accused person do the 
deed which is complained of. There is evidence here that the 
plaintiff's bullock was shot; that almost immediately after the 
report of the shot, the animal was seen lying in defendant's 
garden ; and that the defendant was seen walking away towards 
his house holding a gun. On the other side, there is no evidence 
at all, not even that of the defendant. I cannot see enough in 
the Commissioner's remarks about the plaintiff and his first 
witness, or iu any part of the case, to make me think their 
evidence untrustworthy." 



MAHCa I 



C. B. Colombo, 86788. The plaintiff in this case claimed a Crown land, 
certain land under a bill of sale from Government, dated 17th 
February, 1866. The defendants supported their title by docu- 
mentary evidence, supplemented by proof of long possession 
which apparently was not disbelieved by the Commissioner, who 
however gave judgment for plaintiff as follows : "This land was 
surveyed in 1860, by the G-overnmeut Surveyor, as Crown pro- 
perty. No steps were then taken by any one claiming the laud, 
to put forward his claim. In February 1861, it appears to have 
been surveyed by a private surveyor as the property of Henda- 
drigey Bastian Perera. In 1866 this land was sold by Govern- 
ment and purchased by plaintiff, and there can be no doubt ha 
possessed what he purchased. As no claim was made by any 
one to this land when it was sold by Government, it is hard to 
suppose that at that time it belonged to any one but Govern- 
ment." It was urged in the petition of appeal (1) that the 
circumstance of the defendants having preferred no claim was 
satisfactorily explained by the 1st defendant in his examination, 



Hi.BCH 7] 



]0 PART li — 

in the course of which he said " this land was surveyed by 
Government about 10 or 12 years ago. I was not present at the 
survey, but after the survey I produced my deed to the surveyor.'' 
The land sales usually took place at the Outcherry in Colombo, 
and the defendants were not bound to attend, nor was there any 
evidence to show that they knew that any portion of their own 
land had been advertised for sale; (2) that the land claimed by 
plaintiff and sold to him by Government appeared to have been 
an old Portugese military trench, lying between the properties of 
the Ist and 2ad defendants ; and the evidence of the Surveyor who 
was appointed by the Court, with the consent of both parties, 
went to show that " the two strips of land on either side of the 
ditch now claimed by plaintiff, were alike in cultivation and on 
one flat with the defendtints' properties." (Vide Surveyor's 
Report of November 21.) In appeal, {Grenier for appellant 
Ferdinands for respondent,) per Ceeast, C, J. — " Affirmed. Th« 
fact that this land consists of the bed of an old Portuguese 
military trench and of the strips of ground 'running along tlie 
sides of the ditch, is very strong proof that it was Government 
property." 



Goods sold. a B. Keyalla, 13049, The plaintiff sought to recover Rs. 47. 25, 
as balance due on account of goods sjpplied. The claim was 
fully proved, by parol evl.lence and by the production of an 
account back; but the Commissioner (Mainwaring) held as 
follows ; " This is an action for balance found to be due for 
goods sold to defendant by plaintiff in l871 and 1872. In a ease 
of this sort, it is extremely difficult for a Court to do otherwise 
than give for a plaintiff, as the witnesses are always well coached 
m their parts, and it is extremely diffieslt for a defendant or 
his counsel to break them down. In this case, the usual evi- 
dence has been produced, and the witnesses have on the whole 
stood the cross-examination well. I am nevertheless not satis- 
faed that the case is a true one, and fancy that defendant gave 
in his examination the true reason for the case being brought 
VIZ, a quarrel between himself and plaintiff's brother-in-law. 
I'laintiff s case is dismissed with costs" In appeal, (Grenier for 
appellan ) per Cbisasy. 0. J.-« Set aside and judgment entered 
iZ^ ^-Tu'^ u''^ ''°'''' "' P'^^'y^^- 'T'^'^ i« a claim for goods 

that the nLh?ifl^''"f°'''''^^ P'"^""^- '^^^ Commissioner states 
tliat tbe plaintiff s witnesses were not shaken on cross-examina- 
tion, and nothing appears against their respectability.. On the 
other side, there is no evidence at all . not even the defendant's 
own testimony. To refuse a judgment to a tradesman under 



C0CET3 OF EEiJUBSTS. 



11 



SBch circustances would be a denial of justice,, and a strong en- 
couragement to dishonest debtors. The imaginary quarrel to 
which the Commiseioner alludes, was denied by the plaintiff- when, 
giving evidence, and was merely alleged by the defendant in his 
examination as a party." 



i March. '^ 



C. B. Jaffna, 39413, This was an appeal affecting rival 
claims to certain proceeds of a land,, which had originally be- 
longed to one of tljree dowried sisters named Muttopulle, and 
which had been mortgaged by her to plaintiff and judgment 
(jrediior in D. 0. Jaffna, No. 3913-. MuttopuUe having died 
without issup, ber sister SinnapuUe (Ist claimant) and the son 
and only child of J,he second sister Tf3'wanepulle (who had pre- 
deceased ftluttupnlle,) each inherited one half of the land. The 
plaintiff in this case, having obtained judgment against the son,, 
eaased his one-half to b<9 sold in execution; and the amount of 
the writ having been satisfied, there remained in deposit a 
balance which was seized by a subsequent creditor of the son 
(Sod claimant) under 0. E. writ. 712. Sometime after the sale 
under 39413, the plaintiff in 3912, who had previously sold several 
other lands mortgaged to him by Multopulle, ciiused to be sold 
the remaining one-half of the property in question, as belong, 
ing to the estate of his late debtor, and. Beceived the pi'oceeds in 
saiisraction of the balance due to him.. The Ist claimant,, 
having thus lost her i-ight to that half,, now moved to be allowed 
to draw the money in deposit, claiming preference over the 2nd 
claimant. The Commissioner {Livera) having allowed the 1st 
claimant's motion, the 2nd appealed on the ground that the. 
portion o£ land in questian having been sold as Teywanepulle's 
son's share,, the Ist claimant could have no right to any pan of 
the proceeds, without having the Fiscal's sale first set aside. 
Jjt appeal, (Gr.erder for appellant, Ferdinands for respondent) 
per Cbeast, C. J.r-"Set aside, and motion refused. The 
claimant ought first to get,, (if she can,) the Fiscal's sale set. 



Mareh 7. 

Present Cbeasy, C. J. 

C. B. Galle, 44570. The law and facts of the oase are fully 
Bet forth in the following judgment of the Chief Justice : 

" Set asiJe and judgment to be entered for plaintiff for Rs. 20 
and costs. This is a case curious in its lacts, and in which a point 
of law of some interest has arisen. The parties are Mahomedans 
residing at Galle j the defendant appeara to be a teacher of children.. 



Bival claims 
to proceeds 
of Fiscal's 
sale. 



Locatio cou- 
ductio. 



March 7} ^^ part 11— 

In July 1871, Ihe defendant, in consideration of Rs. 20 paiddovn 
by plaintiff, undertook to teach the plaintiff's grand-daughter to 
read 30 chapters of the Koran in six months,, or in default to re- 
fund the twenty rupees. The parties had a formal notarial 
agreement drawn up and signed. Its text is as follows : ' Know 
all men by these presents, on this &th day of July, 1871, before 
me Ossen Lebbe Abdul Kader, Notary Public, of G-alle district, 
personally came and appeared Sinne Kakier Tamby of Kutabal- 
welle of one part, and Pakier Tamby Mahomado Suhib of Kum- 
balwelle of the other part, and declared that the said appearer of 
jthe 2nd part do hereby declare to have duly received, in advance 
for his trouble, the sum of £2 from the appearer of the 1st partd 
undertaking to teach Marian Manuel, grand-daughter of the 
appearer of the Ist part, 30 chapters of Koran, and according to 
the said agreement, after being taught the SO chapters of Koran 
within six months, and after her I'eading the said 30 chapters in 
the presence of the said appearer of the 1st part, to be discharged ^ 
in default then of so doing, the appearer of the 2ad part to forego 
all his trouble and to return the said £2 to the said appearer of 
the 1st part. Thus agreeing, this agreement is caused to be writ- 
ten, signed, sealed and perfected, on the above date, in the presenca 
of the two subscribing witnesses, Sego Ismail Lebbe Mohandiran 
Ally and Wappuohie Markar Mohamado Raya, both of Galla- 
piadde in Galle." It is to be observed, that the agreement does, 
not say a word about the child being a clever child, or a child of 
average ability, or a stupid child ; nor does it appear, that any 
representations were made by the plaintiff about the child's 
ability, or that the defendant made any enquiry about it. The 
child attended the defendant regularly, for the purpose of being 
taught ; no difficulty was placed in his way by the plaintiff, or 
by any one else. As to the pains taken by defendant in teaching, 
there is some evidence that he neglected the child after a little 
time ; but the Commissioner does not seem to have regarded 
this evidence as a foundation for a judgment, nor shall we do so. 
We shall take the case as one in which the teacher is certainly 
not proved to have taken more than average pains with his pupil, 
but as one in which he is not proved to Lave made default in 
taking average pains. At the end of the specified time, the child 
could not read more than ten chapters. As to the facility or 
difficulty of learning to read the whole 30 chapters in the time, 
one witness says — ' There are cases in which children can, and 
' in which children cannot, read 30 chapters in six months. If 
' the child is very intelligent she might ilo so.' Another witness 
says — ' She is not clever. If she had been, she would have 
' known the 30 chapters before now.' Acting, as it seems, on tbia 
last evidence, the Commissioner baa non-suited the plaintiff. 



COURTS or KEQUESTS, 13 

He says that ' the performance of this contract was subject to 
' an implied condition, that the pupil herself possessed the ne- 
* cessary amount of natural ability, and the plaintiff on his part 
' gave an implied warranty to that effect.' The Commissioner 
has referred to the English cases of Robinson v. Davison, 24 L. 
T. N. S. page 755 ; and Taylor v. Caldwell, 8 L- T. Rep. N. S. 
page 350. In one case, a prolessional player on the piano was 
disabled by illness from performing at a concert according to 
contract. The manager of the concert, who had contracted for 
her performance, brought an action lor the breach of contract ; 
but it was held by the Court of Exchequer, that sbe was excused 
from performance by reason ot tbe illness which had incapaci- 
tated her. This would have been an authority in the present Cdse, 
if the teaching ot the child had been prevented by the illness 
of either teacher or pupil ; tbough, even then, the defendant 
would probably have been bound to return part at least of the 
consideration money. But it does not' touch this case at all. 
The other English authority cited, Taylor v. Caldwell, was a 
judgment of the Court of Queen's Bench delivered by Mr. Jus- 
tice Blackburn. In that case, there had been an agreement to 
let a music-hall for a series of concerts ; and before the day 
arrived, the music-hall was burned down. In that judgment, 
Mr. Justice Blackburn says, ' There seems no doubt tbat wbere 
there is a positive contract to do a thing not in itselt unlawful, the 
contractor must perlorm it, or pay damages for not doing it ; 
although, in consequence of unforeseen accidents, the perlormance 
of bis contract has become unexpectedly burdensome or even 
impossible.' He then goes on to say, ' But this rule is only 
applicable, when the contract is positive and absolute, and not 
subject to any condition, either express or implied ; and there 
are authorities which, as we think, establish the principle that 
where, trom the nature ol the contract, it appears that tlie par- 
ties must, from the beginning, have known that it could not 
be fulfilled unless, when the time lor the fulfilment of the con- 
tract arrived, some particular specified thing continued to exist, 
so that, when entering into the contract, they must have con- 
templated such continuing existence as the toundation of what 
was to be done, there, in the absence of any express or implied 
warranty that the thing shall exist, the contract is not to be 
construed as a positive contract, but as subject to an implied 
condition that the parties shall be excused in case, before breach, 
performance becomes impossible irom the perishing of the thing 
without default of the contractor." 

"But this case of Taylor v. Caldwell does not touch our pre- 
sent case, any more than did Robinson v. Davison. If the 
teacher's capacity to teach, or the pupil's capacity to learn. 



Maech 7 



Makch 7 



14 PART II.— 

which existed at the date of the contract,, bad perished nithoot 
fault of the parties, before the time fixed for the completion of 
the contract, Ihere might, according to Taylor v. Caldwellj 
have been a good answer to a complaint for non-performance 
of the contract. But nothing of the kind happened here. The 
child does not appear to have lost any of her wits during the 
six months -^ and the attempted analogy between her and the 
burnt music-ball, fails as com pletely as the other attempted 
analogy between her and the sick musician. We by no means 
say, that in contracts like the present there can he no implied 
warranty as to the pupil's aptitude lor learning. Supposing that 
the child in this case had bten in a very great degree below 
the average, and greatly deficient in power of apprehension, or 
of memory,, or of both, so as to make it extremely difficult, i£ 
nut impossible, to teach her, we think the instruc:or ought to 
have been made aware of such delects in the child before he 
made the bargain ; and we ihink that the child's grand-father, 
who hired the defendant's S(.rvices to teach the child, may be con- 
sidered to have given an implied warranty of the child's freedom. 
from such defects,, but not a warranty of intelligence to anj 
greater extent. 

" it is well known^ that by Roman Law the vendor,, in 
a contract of purchase and sale, is held to give an implied 
warranty of the article being free from serious defects, of which 
the purchaser had no notice at the time of the purchase. It is 
enough to cite for this Grotius' Introduction, Book iii, cb. xv^ 
sec. vii. Kow, the present contract is a contract looationis 
eonductionis ; tke thing hired being the teacher's labor and ekilL 
The Institutes and the Digest pronounce that 'the contract 
' of letting to hire approaches very nearly to that of sale, and is 
'governed by the same rules of law;' 3 Inst., xxiv, I. The 
Digest says the same ; and there is a dictum in it as to the con- 
tract of letting and hiring being a contract founded on the law. 
of nature, which is not immaterial with reference to an authority 
which I shall cite presently. The Digest xix,. title 2 , par 1 
and 2, says,. ' Itocatio et conduct io,. cum naturalis sit et omnium. 
*^gentium, non vdrbis sed consensu contrahitur: sicnt emptioet 
' venditio. Locatio et conductio proxima est emptioni et 
'venditioni: iisdemctueJ<i"3'i°BSuli3 consistitJ 

"There is a remarkable passage in the third book, 17th section 
of Cicero de OfBciis, (and this work is a high authority on 
questions of principle,), which shows distinctly that the best 
jurists of old Rome regarded this contract of locatio cowdtwfia 
as being one of the classes of contracts in which the most full and 
frank good faith should be observed between the parties, and 
in which neither party should be allowed to gain an adTautag,« 



■COURTS 0* RE(Jt7ESTS. 15 f MARCH T 

>y reason of the oAer party's ignorance of any material fact. 
Dicero qaotea a dictum of the ancient Roman Jurist, Qnintua 
Scavola, that there was very great importance in all those 
I judicial proceedings, in which the formula directed the judge 
'to decide according to the requirements of good faith, eayMs 
ijoni. And he used to think that this expi-ession, ess fide bona, 
' was of most extensive operation, and that it was practically 
•applicable in cases of Guardian and Ward, of Farinership, of 
' Trusts, of Commissions, of Pui chase and Sale, of Hiring and 
'Letting, which make up the ordiaary system of social life.' 
'Quintus Scaa' ola summam vim esse dicebat in omnibus iia 
■arbiti-iis inyquibVis adderetur, ex fide bona; fidoique bona 
' Domen exiStimabat raanare latissime, idque versari in tutelis, 
' societatibus, fiduciis, mandatis, rebus emptis venditi's, con- 
' duotis looaKs, quibus ritss societas cintineretur.' A little fur- 
ther on Cicero pronounces that ' since the law of nature is the 
'fountain of law and justice, it is a rule, in accordance with the 
' law of nature, that no oue shall act in such a mariner as to filch 
'benefit out of another man's ignorance.' 'Quoniam juris 
' natura fons sit, hoc secundum naturam esse, neminein id agefe, 
' ut ex alterius praeJeiur inscitia.' 

^'Considering, thereforcj the contract locationis conductionis to 
be under the same rules, as to warranty and implied condition 
of fitness, which govern contracts emptionis venditionis, let us 
see how far such warranty extends, — merely to a warranty 
against latent defects, such as make the subject-matter of the 
contract unfit to a serious degree for the purpose for wbich it is 
intended. The warranty goes no further. The vendor of a 
house, when nothing is expressed in the contract about the 
quality of the house, is not taken to warrant that it is superior 
ia structure, salubrity or convenience to average houses of the 
class: he is merely held to warrant that there is no defect in if, 
which makes it impossible to occupy it without serious detri- 'i 
ment to health and comfort. The seller of a machine is not 
taken to give a warranty that it is superior to the common run 
of such machines ; ho merely warrants that it is free from such 
delects as would decidedly deprive it of average utility. So in a 
contract for the hire of work to be done on an article belonging 
to the hirer, where nothing is said about the quality of the 
article which is to be worked on, the owner of the anicle cannot 
be held to warrant that it is of special aptitude for the operation. 
He cannot be considered to warrant more than that the article 
is free from such defects, as would render it especially difficult 
to be worked on. 

" Applying these principles to the present case, we can find no 
warranty or condition on the part of the plaintifi', about this 
child's intellect, which has been broken. As we stated at the 



Mabch 7 I 



16 PABT n>— 

beginning of this judgment, the utmost that has been prorej 
against the child's capacity, istbat she is not a clever child. Bat 
in common language, when we call children clever, we mean that 
they are decidedly above the average; as we call children stupid 
who are decidedly below the average as to aptitude for receiving 
instruction. The great majority of children are of average, 
or of nearly average, aptitude. They are neither stupid not 
clever. The young student of the Koran in this case appears 
to have been a child ol this average standard. Certainly she is 
not pi'oved to be below it. The result is that the defendant haa 
failed to prove the breach of any condition or warranty on the 
part of the plaintiff, and the plaintiff is entitled to have his 
money back according to the stipalatiou in the contract." 



March 14. 



Present CeeaST, 0. J. 
tTsa and oc- C. B. Batticaloa, ZZ18. This was an action to recover 12 amo- 
oupation. nams ol paddy, as the muttatu share of the produce of a cer- 
tain paddy field sub-rented by plaintiff to defendant, who how- 
ever denied having ever rented, occupied or cultivated the land 
in question. On the day of trial, the defendant's Proctor having 
taken the objection that the contract, it any, not being in writing, 
was void under the Statute of Frauds, the Commissioner dis- 
missed the case. In appeal, the judgment was set aside and 
case sent back for further proceedings and for trial ; and per 
Ceeast, C J. — " The Supreme Court has repeatedly pointed out 
that in cases relating to land, where the plaintiff cannot enforce 
his original contract because not in writing and notarially exe- 
cuted, still, if the defendant has had beneficial use and occupa- 
tion, he is bound to compensate the plaintiff for the same, by 
the contract which, in such oases, arises eie re."* 



©amages on C.B.Eegalla, 13,185. The plaintiff sought to recover Rs. 98, 
a Iiease. as damages consequent on not having been placed in possession 

of three out of seven lands, which defendant bad rented to him, 
for nine years, on a notarial lease dated I2th October, 1865. The 
defendant denied the alleged non-possssion by plaintiff, and plead- 
ed prescription. The Commissioner heldasfollows: "Theevidence 
is very conflicting, and J have been considerably puzzled in ai- 

* The law on this subject is fully explained in the Supreme Court 
judgment in C. E. Kalutara, 17112. See Civ. Min., Jan, 12, 1864. 



COUKTS OF BE^iUBSTS. ^^JMaBCHU 

living at b decision, but have come to the oonclasion that, taking Damages on 
All the circumstances of the case into consideration, the proba- * Lease, 
bility is that plaintiffs have been in possession of the lands. It is 
impossible that, had they not been, they could have allowed seven 
years to elapse before cotning to Court. Plaintiff's case is dis- 
missed with costs." In appeal, Bias, for appellant. £Yoai' 
claim is clearly prescribed. — C. J.] Only perhaps to a limited 
extent. The lease should be taken as a conlinuing contract, and 
we are entiiled to recover damages for, at least, within two yeara 
of the date of action. Such has been the rule as to mesne profits. 
Grermr-, for respondent, was not called upon. Per Cbbast, CJ, 
" Affirmed. The claim is prescribed. " 



0. B. MwUmMwu-, 9815. The plaintiff, as guardian of two Fresorip.> 
minors, claimed a certain land on a deed, mure than 30 years old, tion.* 
which had been executed in favor of their grandfather, by the 
father of 1st deleudaut. The 1st defendant, without traversing 
the alleged sale, disputed the boundaries given in the plaint as 
incorrect, and pleaded that " the garden in dispute was the 
hereditary property of his late father and mother, and after 
theirdeath he possessed the same." The Commissioner {Withers) 
gave judgment for defendants, holjiug that they had proved 
long possessiony which had not been interrupted by such pay- 
ment of rent or contribution of produce as would affect their 
prescriptive title. In appeal, per Cbeast, C. J. — " Set aside 
and plaintiff, on behalf of the minors, to be placed in poss- 
ession of the garden mentioned in the plaint, on the plain- 
tiff (as such guardian) making compensation to the 1st defend- 
ant for the materials and building of two of the houses 
in the said garden, which are proved to have been built by 
Ist defendant's father ; the amount of such compensation 
(unleas the parties can agree to the same) to be settled by 
the Commissioner of the Court of Bequests, either on his own 
view, or after hearing such evidence as the parties may adduce 
on this point. The old law of Prescription by a quarter of a 

* Held that the whole of the Common Law with respect to pre- 
serlption and the limitation of actions and suits has been abrogated 
aad that Ord. 8 of 1834 contains all that is in force on these sub- 
jects. D. C. Karunegala, 21698. Civ. Min., June 20, 1871. 

Held that possession of J of a centnry will confer a prescriptive 
title against the Crown. D. C. Colombo, 1245. Civ. Min., Sep. 
tember 13, 1870. 

Held that an adverse possession of 10 years is snfEoient to pre- 
scribe against a co-parcener or co.tenant. C. B. Batticaloa, 9653, 
Civ. Min,, April 21, 1870. 



-. 1 18 PAET II.— 

March X4. j 

Presodption. century's possession was abolished in this Island by Regulation 
13 of 1822, the effect of which in this respt'ct was continued by 
Ordinance 8 of 1834, — (See the end of ol-iuse 1.). and by Ordi- 
nance No. 22 of 1871, and Oi'dinance No. 1 of 1852, clause 3. 
The only rules of prescription that apply to land cases in Cey- 
lon are those that are laid down by Ordinance No. 22 of 1871, 
clauses 3, 14, 15, and 16. It may be taken as a fact, that in this 
case the Ist defendant and his lather have had natural possepioa 
(I use the epithet advisedly) of this garden, or of part of it, for 
much more than ten years before 1865, when the rights of the 
minors accrued, in behalf of whom this action is brought. But 
it also seems to me clear as a fact, that the 1st defendant within 
those ten years had paid rent for this garden, and that he had 
done so for as many as at least ten years between 1850 and 1870, 
This affects the period of thirty years mentioned at the end of 
the 14th clause of the Ordinance, as well as the period of ten 
years mentioned in the 3i-d clause. I consider the fact of these 
payments suffioiently proved by the plaintiff's general evidence 
and the more specific evidence of his witness Sinue Velen. It is 
the defendant's case, not the plaintiff's, which deserves to be 
regarded with suspicion, inasmuch as the defendants endea- 
. voured to set up what the Commissioner has rightly termed a 
tricky defence by alleging false boundaries. Indeed, the delenoe 
of prescription is hardly raised in the answer at all. The Com- 
missioner has treated the evidence of payment of rent as null 
and void, because the rent was not paid on a notarial lease. 
But the Pi-eaoriptiou Ordinance nowhere requires that the pay- 
ment of rent, which will bar the effect of possession, shall be 
payment of i-ent under such a lease as might be enforced in a 
Court of law. Indeed, the plaintiff's father might have enforced 
payment of rent, not under the lease, but by an action for use 
and occupation, after the tenant bad used and occupied the gar- 
den. It becomes unnecessary for me to go into the more gener- 
al and important question, whether a mere tenant on suffrance 
can ever acquire a right under our Ordinance of Prescription 
against the owner who has permitted him to occupy. Certainly 
under Roman law he who, thus obtained and held possessionem 
precario, had no possessionem civilem sufiicient to enable him to 
acquire a title by Usuoapio against the Dominus from whom he 
had begged permission to occupy. But I believe that some 
difference of opinion exists as to the effect of our Ordinances on 
this subject ; and therefore sitting alone I will not adjudicate on 
it, unless the i.ature of the issue compels me." 



COUETS OP BEQUESTS. 1^ 5 JtJUK 3 

March 19. 
Piesent Ceeast, 0. J. 
0. fl. Balapitimodera, 21902. A judgment of non-suit by the Evidanoe. 
Commissioner (Ealliley) was set aside, and judgment entered for 
plaintiff, in respect ot a house claimed by him, in the following 
terms : " The plaintiff has brought forward a body of evidence, 
the general effect of which is to satisfy the Supreme Court that 
he is by prescriptive title the lawiul owner of the house in 
question. This evidence is not eounteraeted by any brought 
forward on the other side. The Commissioner states that the 
plaintiff's evidence ' is very unsatisfactory' and non-suits him. 
This summary way of disposing of eases is very unsatisfactory;, 
no reasons are given forit, and the Supreme Court cannot dis- 
«over the grounds for any." (Ferdinands lor appellant-) 

April 22. 
Present Ceeast, C. J. 
C. B. Galle, 45817. A Polios Ofiioer, who was a witness in Contempt, 
this case, was found guilty of Contempt and sentenced to seven 
days' imprisonment for not having appeared oh the day of trial, 
as required by a snbpcena which had been duly served on him. 
The defendant justified his absence on the- ground that there was 
severe sickness in his family and that one of his relatives had 
small pox. The Commissioner {Lee) did not appear to discredit 
this story, but held that " that was no excuse for not sending 
in a report." In appeal, per CEEASy, C. J, — " Order amended 
by directing the appellant to pay a fine of Rs. 5- and by striking 
cut the sentence of impri-sonment.. The Commissioner states his 
belief in the appellant's statement about th« sickness in his (the 
appellant's) family. Under such circumstances, a neglect to 
attend Court ought not to be severely punished- It is a great 
stigma on a person ia tbia appellant's condition of life to be sent 
to jail ; and it would be absolute cruelty to imprison a man who 
has committed no actual crime, at a time when bis near relatives 
are dangerously ill and require his personal attendance." 



June S, 
Present Ceeast, C. J. and Stewaet, J. 
C. jB. Batticaloa, 3178. Plaintiff sued to recover Rs.55, which Contract, 
te alleged the defendants had received from his son for the 
purpose of retaining Counsel to defend the plaintiff, who at the 
time was in jail as accused in a J. P. case, but which sum, it was 
stated, the defendants had misappropriated to themselves. The 



JUNI! 20 

Contract. 



20 



PAET II- — 



Damages. 



defendants pleaded •' not indebted." At> tbe trial, the 2nd de- 
iendant was absolved from the instance, while judgment was 
entered against 1st defendant with costs. In appeal, {Grmier 
for appellant,) per Ckeast, C. J. — " Set aside and judgment of 
non-suit entered. There is no evidence of any oontracii between 
plaintiff and appellant ; and thei-e is no legal evidence of faikre 
of consideration. No costs. The Ist defendant's eandaot is 
Tery discreditable. If be had employed Counsel, he would have 
been eager to prove it in defence of his eharaeter. If the son 
was really acting as the fathei''s agent in employing the defend- 
ant, and the father in any way directed or ratified the son's 
acts, a fresh action may be brought in th« present plaintiff's 
name and further evidence may be supplied. If the boy acted 
independently in employing the defendant, he ^the boy) can sue 
by guardian. In either case, some proof should be given that 
no Counsel appeared for the father." 



June LI. 



Present Ceeasy, 0. J. and Stewaet, J. 
C B. Kegalla, 13282. This was an action to recover the 
value of a cow which plaintiff alleged had been strangled to 
death by means of a noose set by the del endants, who however 
denied having set any noose at all. The Commissioner, having 
believed plaintiff's story, gave judgment (or bim for Rs. 35 and 
costs. In appeal, per Okeast, 0. J. — '* Affirmed. It is very 
difficult to make out from the evidence at what place the noosa 
was actually set, but it does not appear to have been within the 
defendant's own land ; indeed, the defendant in bis petition of 
appeal asserts that it was not. The case, therefore, does uat 
come within the principle of the law as laM down byGibbs, 
C. J. in Deane v. Clayton, 7 Taunt., 489, a judgment which was 
ratified by the Court of Exchequer in Jordin v. Crump, 8 M. and 
W., 782." 



June 20. 



Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
Moorish Cug. C. B. Colombo, 89417. The judgment of the Commisiioner 
torn. (j-_ ^_ ^g Saram) explains the facts of the case. "The 
plaintiff seeks to recover the sum of Rupees 8, being 
his share of the fee paid to the defendant, a priest of the 
Marandahn Mosque, on the occasion of a certain wedding. 
The usual fee on such occasions is Rupees 3. 75, and it is ad- 
mitted by defendant that in such cases the fee is divided in the 



COURTS OP BIQUESTS. — 21 f j^j^j, go^ 

following proportion, 2-5ths to the priest, 2-5ths to the hai-ber Moorish Cus- 
and l-5th to the sexton, hut he adds that this division is adopted t*""- 

otily when the fee is Ropees 3. 75 or any sum below that, and 
tbat when it exceeds that sum tUe excess is taken entirely by 
the priest and only Rupees 3. 75 divided as already mentioned- 
The plaintiff, on the other hand, contends that the fee, whether 
over or under Rupees 3. 75, is divided between the priest, barber 
and sexton in tlie proportion stated, and that he is therefore 
entitled to Rupees 8. being 2-5ths of the Rupees 20 paid on 
the occasion in question. The defendant denied having received 
any portion of the fee and adduced evidence to prove that the 
whole snm was banded to the senior pries-t who paid him his 
share. Prom the plaintiff's evidence it appears only a part of 
tbe fee was paid to defendaat. Rupees 10. Thg witness Sekadie 
Warkar Idros Lebhe Markar swears he handed the money to ~ 
defendant. He can have no object, as far as the Court can see, in 
stating this, if he did not hand him the money, for if it was 
banded to the senipr priest the plaintiff would have sued him. 
As only Rupees 10 were paid to defendant, the question is 
whether the plaintiff is to get 2-5ths of tbat or of only Rs. 3. 75. 
The plaintiff is entitled to 2-5ths of the ordinat'y fee, and unless 
there is something to show that he is restricted to that and 
nothing more, be is clearly entitled to 2-5ths of any sum that 
is paid. According to the defendant's statement (but which is 
not boine out by the senior priest or Assen Lebbe Aiarkar — and 
I lay stress on it as being a statement made by the defendant) 
the plaintiff has to accept a smaller amount as bis shave when 
the lee is below Rupees 3. 75. If this be so, it ia surely no- 
thing but fair that be should receive a higher amount when 
the fee is above Rupees 3. 75. The fee is paid with one object, 
and that is to be divided between the priests, barber and 
sexton. The Head Moorman has stated how the fee is divided, and 
be bears out the plaintiff's contention. Tbe defendant and his 
witnesses each give a different account »s to the manner in 
which the fee when below Rupees 3. 75 is divided. I do not 
therefore feel disposed to place any reliance on their statements. 
Judgment for plaintiff for Rupees 4, being 2-5ths of Rupees 10» 
and costs." 

In appeal, Brito for appellant. — Even accepting the evidence 
for plaintiff, the custom pleaded was not proved to be one which 
had existed from time immemorial. On a question like this, tho 
testimony of the Turkish Consul, who was called for the defence, 
miisht well outweigh that of the Head Moorman. Grenier, for 
respondent, was not called upon. Per Stewart, J,—" Affirmed. 
Tbe Supreme Court sees no reason to discredit the evidence of 



June 2 



'I 



22 TART II. 

Sekadie Markar, (the uncle of the bridegroom,) who distinclilT 
affiims that he paid Rs. 10 to the defendant, and who waa 
believed by the Commissioner. On a question of custom, sucli 
as the present, the evideucu of the Headman is entitled to great 
weight." 



June 25. 
^Present Cbeast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

Action C- -K- Panwila, 3597. The judgment of the Commissioner 

ex ('fifmari) sets forth the issues adjudicated upon. " In this case the 

delicto. plaintiff' sues for value of buffaloes delivered to deleudant, and 
for consideration due for their hire. A receipt or writing setting 
forth the conditions of the transaction is filed in the case. The 
defendant's Proctor objects that the writing is invalid, inasmuch 
as it is not on a stamp, and therefore is not receivable in evi- 
dence, even though the penalty, as proposed by plaintiff's Proctor 
should be paid on it. I consider the objection good and valid 
and therefore reject the document in evidence. At the same time, 
it is perfectly allowable tor plaintiff to prove by parol evidence 
the delivery of the animals, even were there no writing whatever; 
and it just amounts, to a question of whether the Court be- 
lieves the animals were actually delivered to defendant or not. 
if they were delivered, it is for defendant to shew that they were 
returned or to prove that there was some set-ofF against them. 
The Court is satisfied that the animals were actually delivered, 
the evidence of the fact being good and satisfactory. Plaintiff 
calls, besides other witnesses, the Aratchy, who affirms to having 
written the jjoss— permit, and having given it to defendant, and 
also a man of defendant's own village, who affirms to having 
seen defendant using the same buffaloes ; and this evidence the- 
Court considers very conclusive. There seems no reason to doubt 
the animals were worth £9, and therefore judgment ia entered 
for plaintiff to the extent of Rs. 90 and costs of suit." 

In appeal, {Diasior respondent) per Ceeast, C. J.—" Affirmed. 
The substantial part of the plaintiff's claim is lor the value of 
Lis buffaloes, which defendant has illegally converted and ap- 
propriated. This is a cause of action ex delicto, and is unaffected 
by the writing about the hire to which the stamp objection baa 
been raised. Even if the Stamp Ordinance applied, the document 
might have been admitted under tlie provisions of the 46th olausa 
of the Stamp Ordinance No. 11 of 1861, as to allowing unstamp- 
ed or insufficiently stamped documents in evidence on taking 
the proper precaution of payment of the duty and penalty. 



C0TTET3 OP BEQUESTS. 23 f Tttj,- 07 

Moreover, we greatly question the propriety of our reversing 
proceedings on objections about stamps, when substantial jus- 
tice has manifestly been doue by the Court below : see the 20th 
clause of the Administration of Justice Ordinance, No. H 
of 1868." 

June 27. 
Present Cbeast, 0. J. 

C. B. Colombo, 87694. The plaintiff, as landlord, had given Notice to quit- 
notice, on the 10th July, 1872, to the defendant, who was a 
monthly tenant, i-equiriug him to quit on the 10th of the fol- 
lowing month. The issue in the case was, whether such notice 
was sufficient in law. The Oommissionev ide Saram) held as 
follows : " I consider the notice to quit within one month 
from the 10th July bad, as the defendant was a tenant paying 
rent from the 1st to the end of every month, and the nutice 
should have been to quit at the end of one month, such time 
to expire at the end of any given month." 

Inappeal, the case had been argued, on the 21st February, 
hy Grenier, for the appellant, — All that a tenant, equally with a 
landlord, was entitled to was reasonable notice, and such 
notice had been given in this case. Huffel v. Armistead, 7 C. and 
P., 57. The Commissioner's ruling was clearly wrong, as by 
the Ordinance 7 of 1 840 no lease for any period exceeding one 
month could be valid except it were in writing. To require there- 
fore one month's notice to expire at the end of a current mouth, 
was to enable either landlord or tenant to enforce a tenancy 
of more than a month, in contravention of our Ordinance of 
Frauds. The English Statute of Frauds was different in this 
I'espeot, as it sanctioned a parol lease for any period within three 
years. [I should like to hear you Mr. Dias on this point. — 0. J.] 
Bias, for respondent. — The word " month" in the 2nd clause of 
the Ordinance could only mean a month commencing from the 
Ist and endin;! on the last day of the month. The contention 
on the other side, that the month was to be made up of fractions 
of two consecutive months, was clearly opposed to the monthly 
tenancy contemplated in the Ordinance, and would practically 
have the effect of throwing a property on the hands of the land- 
lord in the middle of a month and depriving him of a fortnighi'a 
rent. The established local custom in the matter was in accord- 
ance with the Commissioner's view. 

The Chief Justice, having directed this day that the case 
be called, delivered the following judgment which His Lordship 
said should be accepted as only that of a single Judge. " We 
must read the Nisi Prius case of Euffel v, Armistead, in 



JWLTP -^ 24 JARTIl,- 



-} 



Notice toquifr connection with the subseqaent case of Jcmea v. MUU, wbich 
came before tbe Court of Common Pleas in Bane, and whiob U 
reported in 31 L. 3., (C. P.) 66. I should have been glad of more 
express authority on the subject, bat as at present advised I 
think with Mr. Justice "Williams, that the notice musk be one 
commensurate with the term for which the letting was, that is 
a month for a month ; and I also think that it must be a notice 
expiring at tbe expiration of a current month after the date of 
the notice. Evidence of custom might be given in these casesi 
and might have the effect of vai-jring the presumption arising 
from the mere nature of the tenancy." 



July 8. 
Present Ceeast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

Agency C JS. -K'ami^, 52092. The plaiatiff(D'Bs«e)Te) sued defendant 
(Wait) to recover Rs.41'5, " being amount due as per annexed 
particulars," — which wei'e cost of repairs of a gold walcb 
Rs. 31-50, postage Rs. 4"67, London Agent's chargesi Ra.l'SO, 
plaintiff's commission Rs. 3'S8. The defendant, in his answer, 
alleged that he had been always ready and willing to pay items 
2, 3 and 4, and disputed the correctness of item 1. Plaintiff ia 
his evidence said that be had regarded himself as defendant's 
agent, having been requested to have the watch repaired by 
Messrs. Sari and Sons, from whom he produced a bill with that 
part oi it, however, containing the amount of the charges cut off. 
He explained that he had cut off the amount himself, as be 
wished no one to know what the repairs had actually cost him 
in London. The Commissioner {Stewart) held as follows : 
*' There is no evidence of the cost of the repairs, nor is thefe 
any thing to shew that the plaintiff was tochai'ge for them irres- 
pective ol what the cost redUy was. He could not have been 
expected nor was he asked to do more than to get the watoh 
repaired, seeing that he is not a watchmaker, and therefore also 
not competent to make the charge. He has, however, it must 
be inferred, charged more than the watchmakers in England 
whom defendant requested him to employ, and hence apparently 
this cutting away or destroying by him of that part of tbeic 
bill shewing their chargeb, on the alleged ground that he was 
not bound to disclose the contents of bis invoice, &o. He has 
charged besides commission, which clearly shews that he was 
employed only to get the work done and nothing more. Judg- 
ment therefore for plaintiff for only the items admitted with 
costs in that class." In appeal, {FerdimanAa for appellant, 
Grenier for respondent) per Stewart, J.— Affirmed. 



COURTS OF REQUESTS. 25 \ ^^^^^ j, 

August 12. 
Present Catlet, J. 

C. R. Panadure, 15312. One Thomis Pieris, being the owner of M-tg«gei|«^^ 
a land called Delgahawatte, mortgaged the same, m February 1865, ^.^^^^^ ^^_ 
to Harmanis Bias. In May 1870, Pieris' brothers and sisters (his minigtration. 
sole heirs) sold the property to the Plaintiff. In January 1872, 
another creditor of Pieris, who however held no special mortgage, 
having obtained judgment on a bond dated ISovember 1865, issued 
writs and caused this land to be sold, when the 6th defendant be- 
came the purchaser. The Commissioner ( Morgan) having given' 
judgment for plaintiff, the 6th defendant appealed. 

In appeal, Dias, for appellant.— The heirs could not sell their 
ancestor's property without paying his debts, whether secured or 
unsecured. It was alleged by the heirs, that they sold the land to 
pay off a debt secured by a mortgage on it. But they had to prove 
this. It was true a mortgage bond was filed in the case, but it did 
not follow that the proceeds of the sale had gone to pay off the mortgage 
debt. To allow private sales by heirs would be to allow them to 
defeat the creditors of the deceased, by conveying his property to 
third parties. 

Ferdinands, for respondent.— The payment of the mortgage debt 
was not denied by the contesting defendant, and the bond itself, 
was produced to prove that the debt existed. Even the petition of 
appeal did not question the existence and payment of the debt. 
In NamasevayanCs case, the Supreme Court held that a sale by the 
heirs to pay off a special mortgage would be valid, although ad- 
ministration had not been taken out. 

Per Catlet, J.—" Set aside and case sent back for further hear- 
ing. If the first five defendants sold the f belonging to Thomis Pieris, 
tor the purpose of paying off the special mortgage held by Harmanis 
Bias, and did with the proceeds of the sale satisfy that mortgage, 
their sale should be upheld and the plaintiff declared entitled to 
judgment. Evidence of this payment should be adduced." 



C, R, Gampoh., 28531. The plaintiff, by purchase from the -, • j- ,.■ 
Crown, was the owner of a land, in the district of Udapalata, in the 
Central Province, bounded on all sides by the Mahavila Ganga, and 
as such owner claimed the right " to take and appropriate the fire- 
wood and other things thrown on the said land by the action of the 
water of the said Mahavila Ganga." The grievance now complained 
of was "that the defendant, on or about the 12th October, 1872, 



Aug, 12. I ^'^ PART "■— 

unlawfully took and deprived the plaintiff of a quantity of firewood 
wliic'.i was then on the said land, so thrown thereon by the water as 
aforesaid, to the plaintiflf's damage of rupees 100." The defendant 
who was the Ratamahatmeya, denied the phiintift's right to appro- 
priate the firewood in question, which he admitted having sold, as 
the property of the Crown, under instructions from the Government 
Agent. The answer further raised the plea of jurisdiction, on the 
ground " that the rights involved were of greater valuj than rupees 
100." On the 17Lh of March, the Commissioner (Neville) made ihe 
following order : "plea of jurisdiction being taken as to the vdlue 
of the rights involved, plaintifi's Proctor contends that the Court 
cannot entertain the question of the value of the rights involved 
which are future, but can only try the actual trespass. Laid over 
for ten days, for plaintift to institute an acti'm to have his title to the 
disputed right of jetsam established." On the iSth of March, the 
plaintifi was non-suited in the following terms. " The right to 
alluvion, accretion or jetsam being in di.9pute, and plaintiff olaimiucr 
only special damages and not having, as ordered, instituteil action to 
establish his right to the said alluvion, accretion or jetsam — which 
may be regarded as usucapio and as immoveiible property, — the 
right being alleged as attached to the land and part and parcel there- 
of (equally with trees growing on it, etc.)— this Court is not com- 
petent to award damages, the title being in dispute and bein* 
beyond the jurisdiction of this Court, as is clear from one act of 
trespass alone causing damages rupees 100." 

In appeal, Dias, for appellant. — The question of jurisdiction should 
be determined by the value of the thing actually in dispute, and not 
with reference to any collateral matter which might inoi dentally be 
drawn into the discussion. The property in dispute in the case was 
valued at £10 and came within the jurisdiction of the Court below, 
but the enquiry into the right in respect of which the £10 was 
claimed, was merely a collateral enquiry, and no decision thereon 
could operate as res judicata. Per Catley, J. — "Affirmed. The 
rio'ht to take the wood washed up by the river is claimed as appur- 
tenant to the plaintiff's land, and this right is put in issue by the 
defendant's answer, and is the real (piestion in dispute between the 
parties. The value of this right is far more than rupees 100; and 
the Supreme Court thinks that the learned Commissioner has properly 
held the case to be bey"nd the jurisdiction of the Court of Requests." 



Damages. C.B.Colombo, 90032. Plaintift (W(zWe.s) sued for the recovery 

Horse-break- of rupees 13-16, being charges for repairing harness and shoeing a 



ing. 



COURTS OF REQUESlrs. 27 \ ^^.^ jg. 

horse belonging to defendant, ( Weinman) who, admitting the debt, 
claimed rupees 100 in reconvention, as part damage caused to a mare 
belonging to him, which, by plaintiS's careless and unskilful treatment 
in training, had depreciated in value. It appeared from the evidence 
that the animal in question had originally been trained by Pate ; 
that afterwards she had foaled and had. not been used for 2^ or 3 
months. At the end of that period the mare was sent to plaintiff, 
who, after lunging her regularly for some days on the Galle Face, 
drove her in his brake. Subsequently, however, he attempted to 
harness her opposite his house in the Pettah, and what then occurred 
was deposed to by the horsekeeper as follows : '■ I told him not to, 
but to lake the animal to Galle Face. He however put her in after 
strapping her leg first. He then wanted to get into the trap. The 
mare plunged and fell. Its leg was then strapped. Its knees were 
injured as well as its side and bind leg. Plaintiff undid the strap, 
and took the mare opposite the Gas Works, and lunged it and 
whipped it very much. The mare got timid after that, and did not 
go as usual. It stopped now and then," Pate stated to the Court 
that, having' heard the horsekeeper's story, he was of opinion that 
" the mare was very likely to get very stubborn after such treatment ;" 
that the mare was, when he knew her, good tempered and free from 
vice in harness ; and that after the accident he had sold her, at 
the request of plaintiff, for rupees 300, whereas she had previously 
been worth rupees 500 or rupees 600, The Commissioner (de Saram) 
dismissed plainliff's case, and entered judgment for defendant for 
rupees 100, holding that " in restricting his claim to rupees 100, the 
defendant had given up a good portion of the loss sustained by him." 
In appeal, {Ferdinands for appellant, Grenier for respondent) per 
Catley, J. — " Affirmed. The damages reduced to eighty six rupees 
and eighty four cents, (Rs, 86"84) as the defendant admits the 
plaintiff's claim for Rs. 13-16." 



C R. Colombo, 89922. At the first trial of this case, it was Irregular non- 
agreed that Mr. Schwallie should make a survey, plaintiff paying for ^""'' 
it in the first instance, but the expense to be ultimately made costs in 
the suit ; and a postponement was thereupon allowed. At the ad- 
journed trial, the plaintiff was iion-suited in the following terms : 
" when the case was instituted, the plaintiff should have taken care 
to file a survey, if he required one, with the plaint. He was however 
allowed a postponement on the last occasion the case (^ame on, to get 
a survey made ; and now the Surveyor reports that, in consequence 



Aug. J2 



■I 



28 PART n. — 

of some neglect on the part of the plaintifl, he was not able to survey 
the land. The Surveyor also reports that the plaintiff did not pro- 
duce the foi-mer survey of the land — not filed in the case." In appeal, 
(Grenier for appellant) per Catlet, J. — " Set aside and case sent 
back for hearing. No sworn report of the Surveyor is filed, and there 
is nothing in the record to shew that the delay in making the survey 
was due to plaintiff." 



Costs. C. U. Mallakam, 201. This was an appeal against an order 

refusing to recall writs for costs against plaintiff, who^Jaad voluntarily 
withdrawn his case. A string of objections had been taken ia the 
Court below, all of which however had been overruled. In appeal, 
Orenier, for appellant, submitted that the requirements of the 35th 
section of the Rules and Orders had not been properly complied 
with. There was no note of the taxation of costs on the record by 
the Clerk of the Court, and the writs had therefore been irregularly 
issued. The objection, he observed, had not been taken in the 
petition of appeal, but it was desirable that the minor Courts, which 
were inclined to be lax in their practice, should be required lo 
strictly carry out the law. [The costs allowed were reasonable, and 
the omission you refer to may easily be supplied by the case being 
sent back. — Caylet, J.] The objection, however, not being pressed by 
Counsel, the order was affirmed. 



Ke-opening C. R. Colombo, 90285. The plaintiff claimed rupees 97, as 
iudginent,. damages caused by the defendant having his canoe maliciously seized 
under a J. P. warrant. The defendant justified the seizure, on the 
ground that he acted under " sufficient and probable cause." On 
the day of trial, (3!st Mai-ch) the defendant being absent and his 
Counsel stating that he had received no instructions, judgment was 
entered for plaintifl with costs. Subsequently the defendant moved 
■to have the judgment re-opened on an affidavit which, inter alia, 
recited that he had been obliged to go to Galle on the 22nd March 
on private business as dubash to supply ships ; that he had intended 
to return in time for the trial, but had been delayed by reason of his 
accounts not having been settled by some ship masters ; and that he 
had a good and honest defence on the merits. The Court below, 
however, declined to entertain the motion in the following order: 
" Re-opening of judgment disallowed, as the defendant left no in- 
structions with his Counsel and might have telegi;aphed fi^om Calle 
if he really could not attend." 



COURTS OF REQUESTS. 



29 



In appeal, Kelly, for appellant.— The discretion vested in the 
Commissioner under the 18th section ot the Rules and Orders 
(Ordinanoe 9 of 1859) was not to be exercised arbitrarily ; and 
there was sufficient reason assigned in the affidavit to open up 
the judgment. Sed per Catlet, J.— "Affirmed. The affidavit 
does not show that the defendant was prevented from appearing 
by accident or misfortune, or by not having received sufficient infor- 
mation." 



Aug. 19. 



C. R. Colombo, 90011, The plaintiff sought to recover the 
sum of rupees 12-50, as damages consequent on havino- had to 
attend at an investigation, held by the Modliar of the Corle, by 
commarld of His Excellency the (lOvernor, into a charge preferred 
by defendants and several others in a petition complaining that 
the plaintiff, who was a division officer, had blocked up a certain 
road. The Commissioner (Livera) non-suited the plaintiff in the 
following terms : " I hardly think the defendants are responsible 
for the e.x.pense undergone by the plaintiff The Modliar was re- 
quested to report on the petition, and if in deference to him the 
plaintiff took the trouble to obey the orders sent, he must bear 
the consequence himself." 

In appeal, (^Ferdinands for appellant, Grenicr for respondent) per 
Catley, J. — " Affirmed, but not for the reasons given by the 
learned Commissioner. If the plaintiff had proved that the defend- 
ants joined in maliciously signing and presenting to the Governor 
a petition which they knew to be false and which contained crim- 
inatory matters against the plaintiff, the plaintiff would have been 
entitled to damages, and the amount claimed would have been by 
no means excessive. The petition, however, is not proved, nor is 
secondary evidence of its contents given, as could have been done if its 
non-production had been sufficiently accounted for. It is impossi- 
ble, therefore, to determine how far the btatements contained in it 
were actionable. The petition mireover, being one to the Governor 
against a public officer in a matter in which the petitioners had 
an interest, is in its nature privileged ; and before the plaintiff 
could recover damages for any defamatory statements contained 
in it, he would have to give some evidence of express malice." 



Damages. 
Privileged 
communica- 
tion- 



A'U^st 19. 
Present Catley, J. 
C. R. Ratnapura, 7618. Plaintiff, as widow of Don Simon, sued Construction 
defendants for the recovery of an undivided one half share of the of a will. 



Aug. 19, 



30 PART II.— 

land mentioned in the libel as part of her late husband's estate. 
The first three defendants disclaimed title, while the 4th alleged 
that, as daughter of Don Simon, she held the property in question 
for the maintenance of herself and the minor daughter of her full 
sister Sovitchi Hamy, in terms of her father's last will, the 5th 
clause of which was verbatim as follows : 

" All the remainder of the moveable and immoveable property, etc. 
after the deduction of the above bequests, was assigned to my wife Punchy 
Manike and my own children Appoohamy, Sobitchyhamy and Muttoo 
Manike, to be divided and given equally between them, provided however 
that the property to the worth of £30 or that amount in money be given 
credit to the estate of her the aforesnid Sobitchyhamy's share on account 
of the expenses incurred for the hand and neck jewels and ornaments, etc. 
furnished her at the time of her marriage : nevertheless these provisions ' 
are to take their course in ihis manner having referrence to the assistance 
rendered or caused to be rendered to my wife Punchy Manike during her 
natural life by my aforesaid children Appoohamy, v'^obitchyhamy and 
Muttoo Manilie, and unless the said Punchy .Vfanike made over as to her 
own pleasure while she was as yet alive or after her demise the said shares 
or anything else agreeable to her pleasure, the children whose names ap- 
pear in this clause cannot use any violence or force by laying to their 
shares or right of inheritance save and accept the means of livelihood." 

In appeal, {Ferdinands for appellant, Dias for respondent) per 
Caylby, J. — "Set aside and judgment entered for plaintifl for the 
land claimed in the plaint but without damages. The 5th clause of 
Don Simon's will is not very intelligibly worded, but the Supreme 
Court thinks that the intention of the testator, as gathered from the 
entire clause, was that the enjoyment by the children of their shares 
should be postponed until the determination of the widow's life- 
interest. The 4th defendant is entitled to means of livelihood out 
of the estate, but this will not give her any right to a specific share 
of the estate, much less to any particular land. " 



Effect of re- C. R. Point Pedro, 784. Plaintiff claimed ^ of certain lands by 
citals in a right of inheritance from his mother, and complained that defendant 
deed. ^y^ brother) had unlawfully removed his paddy crop. The defen- 

dant denied plaintiffs right, and set up title in himself by purchase 
from plaintifi's mother and co -proprietor. The Commissioner 
(^Drieberg) after plaintifFs examination dismissed the case, holding 
that the defendant's deed was expressly recited in a partition deed 
affecting the parent's estate, to which both plaintiff and defendant 
were parties. In appeal, per Cayley, J. — "Set aside and case sent 
back for new trial. The present action not binng founded on the 
jwrtition deed, the recitals nf that deed, though evidence against the 



COURTS OP REQUESTS, 31 j 

plaintiff, do not operate as an estoppel, and the plaintiff should have 
an opportunity of proving his case." 



Aug. 19. 



C. a. BalapUimodera, 22129. The plaintiff sought to recover Loan, 
rupees 10-32, which he alleged had been borrowed and received by 
defendant, who however denied the debt. The plaintiff called two 
witnesses and the defendant none. The Commissioner (^Halliley) 
held as follows : " In transactions of these kinds, there should always 
be a promissory note or a receipt passed. Nothing is easier. Now 
among the witnesses that generally come before me, I always find 
that plaintiff's witnesses are for plaintiff, and the plaintiff could not 
state the case bettei* than they, and defendant's ditto. Sf) that I caa 
hardly ever believe witnesses who come before me. Plaintiff, having 
failed to get a promissory note or receipt from defendant, is non- 
suited with costs. In appeal, [Ferdinands for appellant) per 
Catlet, J. — "Set aside and judgment for plaintift for rupees 10-.32, 
with interest thereon at 9 per cent, from date of action brought, 
and costs of suit. Neither a promissory note nor a receipt was 
necessary to enable the plaintiff to recover the amount advanced by 
him. He has proved his case, and the defendant has called no evi- 
dence to rebut it." 



C. R. BalapUimodera, 22063. This was an action on a bond Burden of 
against the heirs and representatives of a deceased debtor. The proof, 

defendants pleaded that the debt had been paid and the bond 
obtained by the debtor during his life time, "but called no evidence 
at the trial. The Commissioner (Halliley) non-suited the plaintiff 
with costs. In appeal, per Cayley, J.—" Set aside and judgment 
for plaintiff as prayed with costs. The Commissioner has not given 
any reasons for non-suiting the plaintiff. The burden of proof is 
thrown on the defendants, and they have called no witnesses." 



C. B. Negombo, 21634. Plaintiff sought to recover the amount Non-suit. 
of a mortgage bond from defendants as being in possession of the 
debtors estate, but having failed to prove such possession, the 
Commissioner (Dawson) entered a judgment of nou-suit. In appeal 
per Cayley, J.—" Affirmed. 



Aug. 19. 



32 PART II. — 



Effect of judg- C. R. Mullaiitivu, 9930. This was an action for damages against 
ment for land, the defendant, who was charged with having vmlawfully reaped, 
threshed and appropriated a portion of the paddy crop which had been 
cultivated by plaintiff. Defendant justified himself on the ground 
that he had previously obtained judgment in the District Court for 
an undivided i of the field in question. It appeared that when 
defendant, as holder of a writ of possession, proceeded to have his 
right enforced, a crop of paddy which had been cultivated at 
plaintiff's sole expense and labor was standing on the field, though 
not ripe for cutting. The Comaaissioner ( Withers) gave judgment 
for plaintiff in a lengthy jn Igment, in the course of which he held 
as follows : "Now it was and is the Court's opinion, that with a 
judgment for land passed, any plantation growing on the land, and 
by that is meant all the produce of the land which has not resulted 
from the labor of man — trees and natural grasses for instance as 
distinguished from corn." In appeal, per Caylet, J. — " Set aside and 
plaintiff's claim dismissed with costs. The judgment in the case 
No. 115, being a judgment for an undivided ^ of the land without 
any reservation, carried with it a right to ^ of the crop growing 
at the time on the land. It is not clear hat the appellant has 
appropriated more than | of the crop, and to this he was entitled." 



p , . C R. Kurunegala, 28350. The following judgment of the Com- 

to rovHlty on missiouer {J. H. de Saram) explains the case : " The facts of this case 
Plumbago. are as follows. The land referred to in the plaint was purchased by 
the plaintiff from a third party, who alleged he had a right to it. The 
plaintiff commenced digging for plumbago when a claim was put in 
on behalf of the Ci'own to the land, and it was put up for sale by the 
Government Agent of this Province on the 4th August, 1871. The 
plaintiff relinquished all right he had to the land under his first trans- 
fer, and purchased it from the Crown. The copy of the conditions 
of sale put in evidence by the plaintiff, is admitted to be a copy of 
those on which plaintiff purchased the land. There is no mention 
made in those conditions that the purchaser would have to pay 
royalty on plumbago dug on the land ; and as the Government 
At^ent has demanded payment of royalty, this action has been 
instituted to have the question of the plaintiff's liability or non- 
liability settled. For the plaintiff it was contended, (1) that the 
land was sold on the understanding that plaintiff would not have to 
pay royalty ; (2) that plaintiff is not bound by any clause in the 
transfer which is not consistent with the conditions of sale ; (3) that 
the rights of the Crown which were re.served by the 4th clause of the 



CODETS OF REQUESTS. 33 

conditions are those referred to in the Minute of 1st August, 1861. 
and by which no right is reserved on minerals, but only on precious 
metals ; (4) that it is not proved that there is any I'egulation or 
proclamation in existence, authorizing the demand of royalty. On 
behalf of the Crown, it was urged that, inasmuch as the plaintiff accep- 
ted a Grant from the Crown, he is bound by that Grant, and as there 
is a special clause in it, by which the right to all the minerals in the 
land is reserved, the demand for payment of royalty is valid. This 
contention appears to me to be well founded. The present action is 
not one to set aside the Grant given by the Crown, and to compel it 
to hand plaintiff one in terms of the conditions of sale, but it is one 
requiring the Court to hold that plaintiff is not liable to pay royalty. 
It is beyond the power of the Court to do this, as the very deed on 
which the plaintiff rests his title contains a clause reserving the right 
of the Crown to all minerals in the land. Had the action been one 
to set aside the present transfer, the Court would have been in a posi- 
tion to take notice of any difference that exists between the condi- 
tions of sale and the wording of the transfer. For these reasons, it is 
decreed that the plaintiffs case be, and the same is hereby, dismissed 
with costs." 

In appeal, (Ferdinands for appellant) per Catlbt, J. — •' Affirmed. 
Plaintiff has admitted the original right of the Crown to the land by 
purchasing it from the Crown, and the transfer under which he now 
holds it expressly reserves the minerals. He complains that the trans- 
fer is not drawn in accordance with the conditions of sale under which 
the property was sold to him, no reservation of the minerals having 
been mentioned in these conditions. How far this might be a good 
ground for instituting a suit for specific performance of the original 
contract of sale, or for procuring a new or amended transfer, it is not 
necessary to determine ; but so long as the plaintiff holds the land 
under his present conveyance, which expressly reserves the right of 
the Crown to the minerals, it is not competent for him to dispute that 
right." 



Aug. 19. 



C R. Panwila, 4120. This was an action to recover Es. 100 on a Action on ; 
bond, the original of which had been lost but a certified copy of Bond, 
which was filed with the plaint. The defendants, admitting the docu- 
ment, pleaded part payment, and strangely enough concluded their 
answer with a prayer that each party might be condemned to pay his 
own costs. The Commissioner ( Smart ) held as follows : " The 
original deed being lost, plaintiff to hold up his claim at all should 
have called the notary and witnesses to give evidence as to the 
genuineness of the copy. But even with this there is a strong pre- 



Aug. 19. 



'■} 



34 PART II. 

sumption that part of it has been -satisfied, by the evidence for 
defendants. Defendants admitted theii- liability to plaintiff for Rs 15 ; 
therefore judgment is given for plaintiff for Rs 15, but plaintiff will 

bear all costs." In appeal, {Grenier for appellant) per Catlet, J 

" Set aside and case sent back for further hearing. The Commis- 
sioner in effect holds that the original bond having been lost, plaintiff 
cannot maintain his claim without calling the notary and Tvitnesses, 
The defendants, however, admit the bond in their answer ; and con- 
sequently no proof at all is required of the instrument on the part of 
the plaintiff. The onus of proof is entirely thrown upim the defend- 
ants ; and, unless they have proved the payment to the satisfaction 
of the Commissioner (which from his iudgment is not quite clear) 
plaintiff is entitled to judgment. Even if the defendants prove the 
payment of part of the money due, the balance not having been paid 
into Court, plaintiff should not be condemned to pay defendants' 
costs." 



Contract C, fi, Panvnla, 3713. Plaintifl sought to recover Rs 20 alleged to 

affectmg land, jj^yg been advanced as part value of a land which he had agreed to 
purchase from defendant, who however denied the transaction. 
Evidence was adduced to prove the advance, but the Commissioner 
{Smart) nonsuited the plaintifi, on the ground that the- agreement 
pleaded was not in writing as required by the Ordinance 7 of 1840. 
In appeal, per Caylet, J.— " Set aside and judgment entered for 
plaintiff as prayed. It was decided in 1871, D. C. Walligame 
( Morgan's Digest, p. 82 ) and again in 34472, D, C. Colombo, Civ. 
Minutes, November 10, 1863, that money paid in pursuance of a 
contract which is void under the Ordinance of Frauds and which is 
not performed is recoverable." 



Effect of C. B. Chavakacheri, 17^73. The plaintifl had deposited the sum 

settling and of Rs 75 with defendant in December 1871, as security for the per- 
withdrawing formance of certain work the former had undertaken to perform. The 
a case. money was to be returned to plaintifl in December 1872, if no loss or 
damage were caused by him to defendant in the interval. In August 
1 872, the defendant dispensed with plaintiff's services, without how- 
ever returning the deposit, to recover which the present action was 
brought. Three previous suits in respect of this very claim had been 
instituted and subsequently withdrawn. Plaintifl admitted at the 
trial, that he had signed the settlement filed in the last case, Nn. 
17215, but insisted that defendant had failed to carry out the terms 
thereof. The Commiasioner {Drieberg) dismissed the claim with 



COURTS OP BEQUESTS. 35 \ . „„ 

costs, holding that plaintift's remedy under the circumstances was 
by an action to enforce the settlement. 

In appeal, (^Ferdinands for appellant) the judgment was set aside 
and case sent back for hearing ; and per Oayi,ey, J. — " The mere 
fact that the plaintift withdrew the former case will not prevent him 
from reinstituting it, If, however, the Commissioner is satisfied, 
after hearing evidence, that the previous withdrawal was part of a 
final settlement which was duly carried out, the plaintiff's claim should 
be dismissed, as having been reinstituted in fraud of such settlement." 



C. R. Mallakam, 210. This was a case of encroachment. The 
Commissioner, (^Murray) after hearing evidence of both parties, gave 
judgment for defendant for the land in dispute, and nonsuited the 

plaintiff. In appeal, Grenier, for the appellant, pressing only for a 

nonsuit, the judgment was modified accordingly. 



C. R. Kurunegala, 28566. Plaintiff claimed Rs 96 as value of 12 Bond, 
aiuunams of paddy, being the share of a certain field which had been 
cultivated by defendant. In defence, it was pleaded that the paddy 
had been given by plaintiff in part payment of interest due by her 
late husband on a bond granted by him to defendant's brother, of 
whom defendant was the sole heir. The bond itself was not pro- 
duced, but evidence was led to prove acknowledgment by plaintift of 
the alleged debt and her delivery of the paddy in part satisfaction 
thereof The Commissioner, (de Saram) having believed defendant's 
witnesses, dismissed plaintiffs claim with costs. In appeal, (Orenier 
for appellent, Ferdinands for respondent) per Catlet, J. — " Set 
aside and case sent back for further hearing. The bond alleged to 
have been given by plaintifi'a deceased husband to Kirihami should 
have been produced, and proved in corroboration of the evidence 
given by the defendant, or the non-production of this instrument 
should have been properly accounted for." 



August 26. 
Present Caylbt, J. 
C. R. Nuwera Eliya, 3168. The plaintifls in this case had been Contempt, 
nonsuited in respect of their claim to a certain land. Having subse- 
quently plucked coffee from the property in dispute, the Commis- 
sioner {HarUhorne) proceeded to try them for Contempt of Court 
and fined each Rs 10, holding that "a nonsuit in an action for eject- 
ment operated as a dismissal." In appeal,— (Ferdinands for appellant 



Aug. 26. 



36 PART II. — 

was not heard) — per Catlet, J. — " Order set aside. The plaintiffs 
were not bound to give up possession of the land to the defendants, 
who have no judgment in their favor, because they, the plain tMs, had 
been nonsuited in an action brought by them to try their title ; nor 
can the plaintiffs be punished for Contempt of Court for retaining 
possession." 



Jurisdiction. C*. R. Puttalam, 6888. Plaintiff alleged that he had manufactured 
Damages. .5000 bricks from clay dug out of a portion -of land belonging to 1st 
and 2nd defendants ; that thereafter the other defendants had 
maliciously destroyed the bricks, falsely laying claim to the said land, 
to his damage of Rs 30. The i st and 2nd defendants admitted they 
were the owners of the land ; that the other defendants weie their 
lessees ; and that with the full knowledge and consent of such lessees 
they had licensed plaintiff to make bricks. The 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 
fith defendants pleaded they were not lessees, but proprietors of the 
land, and denied the grievance complained of and the right of the 
plaintiff to sue in the absence of any notarial authority from the 1st 
and 2nd defendants to occupy the land in question. The Commis- 
sioner (Pole) gave judgment for plaintiff for Rs 12^j holding that 
" this is a simple case of damage, although by the pleadings it is 
attempted to magnify the case into one of title to land." 

In appeal, Dias for appellant.— The questionof title was undoubt- 
edly raised on the pleadings, and the right of the plaintiff's lessors to 
the land was in issue. 

Per Catlet, J. — " Affirmed. The plaintiff has proved that the 3rd 

4th, 5th and 6th defendants destroyed the bricks which he had made; 

and these defendants have failed to prove any iustification for this act. 

No evidence as to the title to the land was called by either side; and 

II the issues upon which the case was tried and decided are within the 

jl jurisdiction of the Court of Requests." 



Action on C . R. Kandy, 5111^. The plaintiff sought to recover Rs. 65 and 

Bond. interest on a bond, which defendant admitted having executed but 

Husband and the consideration of which she denied having received. The plaintiff, 

wife. being affirmed, stated " the defendant, I admit, did not receive the 

consideration, but the husband received it. She (defendant) gave me 

the bond." The Commissioner (^Stewart) held as follows : "Plaintiff 

admitting that defendant did not receive the consideration, case is 

dismissed with costs." In appeal, per Caylet, J.—" Set aside and 

judgment entered for plaintiff as prayed. The action is one on a 

bond, and the only defence is want of consideration. The burden of 



COURTS OF REQUESTS. 37 

proof is upon the defendaHt, and she has called no evidence. The 
Commissioner has non-suited the plaintiff, in consequence of his ad- 
mission that the defendant's husband, who appears to have since died, 
and not the defendant, received the consideration. But the fact that 
the plaintiff gave good consideration for the instrument, whether to 
the defendant or to her husband, is sufficient to entitle him to main- 
tain an action against the party who signed the bond in his favor. 
The plea of coverture has not been taken." 



Sbpt. 5. 



C. R. Colombo, 90445. Plaintifi was nonsuited, on the ground Non-suit, 



that his present claim had been adjudicated upon in a previous suit, 
in which he had endeavoured to set ofl the same amount against the 
defendant. In appeal, per Catley, J. — " Affirmed. The Commis- 
sioner is right in holding that the plaintiff, having pleaded the 
amount now claimed by him as a set-off in a previous action brought 
against him by the present defendant, and the issue thereon having 
been found against him, is estopped from suing the former plaintiff 
for the demand specified in the plea of set-off. See Eastmure v. 
Laws, 5 Bingham, 444." 



Set-ofe. 



September 5. 
Present Catlet, J. 
C. R. Panadure, 14980. The Government had taken up in Way of neces- 
1871, under the provisions of Ordinance 2 of 1863, a certain land for sity, 

•the purpose of enlarging the Panadure burial ground, and had fenced ^,^^'^'' °* ^" 
in a road that the defendant (who lived to the south) was using. The 1863. 
defendant (Proctor Jayesinghe) having broken down a portion of 
the fence over the road on the day it was put up, the Modliar, as re- 
presentative of the Government Agent, instituted this action for 
trespass and damages. The defendant pleaded that the road in 
question was a way of necessity, and deposited in Court Rs 50, 
being the value of the encroachment as assessed in the libel. It 
appeared from the evidence that, when defendant purchased his pro- 
perty in 1870, there was a foot-path (which he subsequently enlarged 
into a cart-road) running across what was now the burial ground on 
to the high-road ; that thereafter, certain excavations in the burial ground 
having interfered with that cart-road, Soyza Modliar, acting under 
the Government, opened the road now in question for the defendant's 
use; and that about a fortnight after the defendant had gravelled it, on 
the plaintiff fencing in the whole of the Government property, the 
defendant removed the obstruction to his right of way. The Com- 
missioner (Morgan) held as follows. " The defendant came to his 



SjiPT. 5. > 



38 PART II.- 



present residence in ) 870, so that he could have gained no prjscrip. 
tive right to the road, nor has any been shown as on the part of those 
under whom he claims. In fact, his application is one, as the plaintiff's 
Proctor described it, ad misericordiam. He admits that he con- 
verted a foot road into a cart road, and he asks the Court to compel 
the plaintiff to receive Rs 50, which he tenders, and allow him the 
use of the cart road. But this the Court has no right to do. The 
defendant's proper course is to apply to the Grovernment under the 
Ordinance 2 of 1863. He has further means of securing access to 
his residence, if he has none at present. Defendant was wrong ia 
breaking the fence, and he is decreed to pay one Rupee as damages. 
As the case seems a hard one for him, I will not cast him in further 
damages. Judgment for plaintiff with costs." 

Ferdinands, for appellant. — This was a way of necessity, and the 
defendant was entitled to it. Holmes v. Goring, 2 Bing., 76. [But 
there the owner had originally held the land himself in parcels — 
Catley, J.] The principle was the same in both cases, that where 
there was no other way which a party could use, it was no trespass 
to make a way of necessity. The Crown having itself allowed the road 
in lieu of the one destroyed, defendant could not be charged with 
ti'espass. [It is denied that there was an easemsnt. Defendant's 
purchase was only in 1870. — Cailei, J.] He did not clairu by 
prescription, but on the ground that there was no road by which 
he could have access to his land without trespassing on the lands of 
other persons. [The evidence on this subject is not sufficiently full.— 

(.'AYLEr, J.] 

The Queen's yloliiocate, for respondent. — The defendant had other 
means of access and could not complain. [It appears across 10 or 15 
lands — Caylet, J.] But the area was very small, and from his own 
personal knowledge of the place, he could say that defendant would 
sufier no inconvenience whatever. Besides, the plea of necessity 
could not avail, as there was a statutory remedy prescribed by 
Ordinance 2 of 1863, cl. 9, and that was the only remedy now avail- 
able to an aggrieved party. The land m question had been taken 
possession of by Government for the purposes of a burial ground 
under the Ordinance, and the defendant's right, if any, was extin- 
guished by the enactment in the 4 th clause, which vested the land 
in the Crown free of all mortgages and incumbrances and to the ex- 
clusion of " all persons whomsoever, whatever right or title they may 
have or claim to have in the property." 

Ferdinands, in reply. — The Ordinance did not destroy the common 
law right of the defendant to a way of necessity, nor could it affect 
the rights of third parties ivho had neither sold the laud nor shared 
in the compensation paid liy the Grown, 



COURTS OF REQUESTS. 39 

Per Catlet, J.—" Affirmed. This is, in effect, an action by the 
Crown to set aside a claim made by the defendant of a right of way over a 
piece of land taken by the Government for the purpose of a public 
burial ground. It was admitted, at the hearing before this Court, that 
the land was regularly taken under the provisions of the Ordinance 
2 of 1 863. The right of way is claimed by necessity only. Mow even 
though such a plea were tenable, (and, in view of the certificate of 
possession issued under the 4 th clause of the Ordinance, I think it 
would not be,) the defendant has failed to prove this necessity; and 
this issue has-been expressly found against him by the learned Com- 
missioner. It appeai-p, from the rough sketch filed with the proceedings 
as well as from the defendant 's evidence, that although the burial 
ground supplies the nearest and moat convenient means of access to 
the minor road from the defendant 's property, there are other means 
of access eas'ly available. If the defendant cannot otherwise obtain 
free and sufficient access to his property, he should, as suggested by 
the Commissioner, apply to the Grovernment for a road under the 
provisions of the 9th clause of the above mentioned Ordinance." 



Sept. 5. 



C. H. B(dapittmodara,22l35. Plaintifi, who was a special mortgagee. Mortgage, 
was prevented by defendant from selling the mortgaged property, the 
hitter claiming it by right of purchase at a Fiscal's sale held six months 
previously. The Commissioner (^Halliley) held as follows : " There 
is no bill of sale as mentioned in the mortgage bond in evidence. I 
can't therefore say the extent of the land. Plaintiff is nonsuited with 
costs." In appeal, per Caylet J. — " Set aside and judgment entered 
for plaintiff as prayed with costs of suit. By a deed of mortgage dat- 
ed 29th September, 1868, Kaluvahakuru Siman mortgaged with 
plaintiff all his right in the land in question. The defendant claims 
the property by purchase at a Fiscal's sale held in 1S72, under a 
writ against this Siman issued for costs. Plaintifi's mortgage must 
have priority over defendant's purchase ; and, as all Siman's right, in 
the land was mortgaged, the precise extent of property is quite im- 
material." 



C. B. Galle, 46118. This was an appeal against costs which Costs, 
plaintiff was condemned to pay in an action brought by him to redeem 
a mortgage bond,*whioh defendant admitted having refused to didiver 
over. When the case was called, the Commissioner (Zee) made the 
following order: "the mortgage bond is handed to plaintiff. The 
defendant to take the money deposited and to have costs." Per 
Caylet, ,J.— "Set aside, so far as relates to that part of the judgment 



Sept. 6. | ^« "^^^ "- 

which condemns plaintift to pay defendant's costs, and amended by 
ordering defendant to pay plaintift's costs. Defendant admits in his 
answer that he refused to allow plaintiff to redeem the mortgage, and 
has called no evidence to justify such refusal. Plaintifl has been un- 
necessarily put to the expense of bringing this action to redeem the 
bond, and he ought to have his costs. Moreover, it does not appear 
that any notice was given to the defendant before the trial, that plain- 
tifi had deposited in Court the Ks. 20 on the 15th of May, 1873." 

Arbitration. C. R. Oampola, 28234. The dispute in this case, which affected 

title to land, was, on the joint motion of the parties and their Proctors, 
referred to the sole arbitration of Abraham Mohandiram, whose award 
was as follows: "I having received the letter in case No. 2S234 
which was addressed to my name, the plaintiff, defendant and several 
other respected people proceeded to the disputed land and enquired, 
but for the following reasons it is difficult to make out to whom the 
disputed land belongs. On our enquiring we did not find a deed to 
the said land, nor was the Koralle of the said district, who separated the 
said land formerly, present. But having enquired from the neighbour- 
ing headman, it is given to understand that the said disputed land is 
the property of the defendant but not of the plaintifl." On this 
award being filed, the Commissioner (Neville) dismissed plaintiff's 
claim and decreed the land in question to defendant. 

In appeal, {^Kelly for appellant) per Caylet, J. — " Set aside and 
case sent back for a new trial. Appellant to have his costs in appeal, 
but the costs in the Covirt below to abide the final adjudication. The 
reference to arbitration having been voluntary, no appeal would lie 
from any iudgment which had been given according to the award ; 
but it appears to the Supreme Court, that in the present case the 
judgment has not been given according to the award. In the award, 
the arbitrator states that it is difficult to make out to whom the dis- 
puted land belongs, but that, having made enquiry from neighbouring 
headman, he is given to understand that it is the property of the de- 
fendant. There is no express finding that the land belongs to the 
defendant, and nothing more than the statement of the opinion of 
certain headmen. Such an award will not entitle the defendant to 
judgment in his favor, nor indeed could any definite judgment 
be based upon it." 



Indefinite ^- ^- Galagedera, 30393. This was an appeal against a judgment 

judgment, of the Commissioner, (Capt. Williams) decreeing, under the Kandyan 

Prescription, law, one half of a certain land to plaintiff, as one of two sisters, by 

right of inheritance from her father. I71 appeal, per Caylet, J. — 



COURTS OP REQUESTS. 41 ) „„ 5 

" Set aside and case sent back for further hearing and consideration. 
Plaintift claima by inheritance from her father Kiri Banda an undivid- 
ed I share of a certain garden called NaranghamuUe Cattuwa. The 
learned ComWssioner has given judgment for the plaintifi for half 
share of the portion of land inherited by Kiri Banda, but he proceeds 
to observe that it is not clear from the evidence what this portion of 
land is, but that it must be ^th share of that which descended to his 
children excluding the portion of land given to the widow. Now the 
principal issue in the case is not whether the plaintifi is entitled to a 
shave of Kiri Banda's land (for the fact of her being his daughter is 
not seriously contested), but whether the land claimed in the plaint 
was inherited or possessed by Kiri Banda. On this issue there is no 
finding, and it is impossible to ascertain from the judgment what 
precise share of what precise land is decreed to the plaintiff. No 
effectual writ of possession could issue upon a judgment thus fram- 
ed. The learned Commissioner has observed that prescription cannot 
avail in the case, because the plaintiff is apparently about twenty two 
years of age only. The age of the plaintiff is, however, by no means 
conclusive on the question of prescription. It is possible that a pres- 
criptive title may have been acquired by the defendant as against 
Kiri Banda before the plaintiffs right of action accrued, or prescription 
may have commenced to run against Kiri Banda before his death, in 
which case the disability oftheplaintiff could not prevent such pres- 
cription from being completed by the adverse possession of the defend- ' 
ant for the term of ten years." 

C. R. Oampola, 28680. The title to a certain land of about two Jurisdiction. 
seers' sowing extent was in dispute between the parties. The Com- Test of value 
misaioner (Penney) nonsuited the plaintiff on the following groimd : — of land . 
"the land is worth 12 or 15 rupees a year, and at 10 years' valuation 
is worth more than Rs. 100." In appeal, per Catley, J. — " Set aside 
aud remanded for further hearing and consideration. The case has 
been dismissed by the learned Commissioner on the ground that, as 
the value of the yearly produce of the land in dispute is 12 or 15 
i-upees and on the assumption that the value of the land is equivalent 
to the value of 10 years' produce, the case is beyond his jurisdiction. 
There is however no evidence for this assumption, and it is also to be 
observed that, in estimating the value of the annual produce as a cri- 
terion of the value of the land, the expenses of cultivation should be 
taken into account. When land is cultivated in ande, half share of 
the produce usually goes to the andekariya. The amount for which 
the land would rent, or the amount for whicli it would be given out 
inande, would be a more accw-ate measure of its value." 



Sept. 5. I ^^^ part ii.- 

Damages on C. U. Randy, 52134. This was an appeal against a judgment of 
''"tlmrT "d'^'^' ^^^ Commissioner (Stewart) awarding Rs, 5 to plaintiff as damages 
consequent on the breach of an alleged agreement, by which defendant 
had bound himself to lease a certain land to plaintiff who in goud 
faith had improved the property. In, appeal, per Catley, J. — " Set 
aside and plaintiff non-suited with costs. This is an action to recover 
Rs. 40 damages for breach of an alleged contract, by which 'plaintiff 
■ agreed to improve and cultivate a piece of land in consideration of an 
alleged promise by defendant to give him a lease ot the land for five 
years.' Plaintiff also claims the Rs. 40 under the common counts for 
work and labor done and money paid on account of defendant at his 
request. Plaintiff has called witnesses to prove that he carried out 
certain work on the land, but there is no evidence of the contract 
declared upon in the first count of the plaint, the terms of which are 
\ disputed and which would have required notarial execution. Nor is 
there any evidence that the alleged work was done and money ex- 
pended at the defendant's request, express or implied. See 32746, 
C. R. Kandy, Solomon.s' Reports, part 1, page 23." 



Stamp ohjeo- C. B, Colombo, 91967. Plaintiff sued upon a document, which he 
tion. described- in his libel as a promissory note, for the recovery of 
Rs. 47, being amount of principal and interest due thereon. The 
defendant pleaded payment. On the day of trial, the defendant's Proc- 
tor relied on the legal objection that the alleged promissory note was 
a bond and therefore insufficiently stamped, and declined - to call 
evidence in support of the plea in the answer. The Commissioner 
(Livera) entered judgment for plaintiff as prayed for. 

In appeal, Orenier, for appellant, pressed for a rehearing to prove 
payment. Per Catlet, J. — " Set aside and case sent back under the 
conditions hereinafter stated. In this case, the instrument having 
been expressly admitted in the answer, and a plea of payment being 
the only defence, it was not competent for the defendant to raise an 
objection at the trial as to whether or not the document was 
properly stamped. (See Israel v. Benjamin, 3. Camp., 40.) The 
defendant is allowed, as an indulgence, an opportunity of proving 
his plea of payment ; but he must pay all the costs of the day 
in the Court below and of this appeal, within seven days after a 
taxed bill has been presented, and must deposit in Court, within seven 
days of the case being sent back to the Court of Requests, the amount 
claimed in the plaint, to abide the final adjudication. Upon his failure 
to comply with any of the above conditions, the judgement appealed 
against is to be treated as affirmed." 



C0UKT8 OF EEQDESTS. 



43 



C, R. Colombo, 90405. This was an arction to recover half the 
Talue ol fish caught by defendant with the aid ef plaintifl, who led 
evidence to show that the defendant, having oast his net into the sea 
to the south, called upon the plaintiff, whose boat was to the north, to 
enclose the fish and drive it into his (the defendant's) net, pvomis- 
ing to reward him with half the fish that might be caught. The defendant 
denied the alleged agreement in his answer, but the Commissioner 
(Livera) having believed the plaintiff's evidence gave judgment for 
him to the full amount claimed, Rs. 61. 

In appeal (Ferdinands for appellant, Grenier for respondent) per 
Catlet, J. — " Affirmed." 



Sbi't. 9. 
Contract, 



September 9. 
Present Catlet, J. 
C. B.. Galle, 4C376. This was an action for goods sold and 
delivered and for money lost in consequence of an alleged assault by 
defendant, who pleaded not indebted and not guilty. On the day of 
trial, both parties being present, the Commissioner (Zee) made order 
as follows. " Plaintiff ready, defendant not ready. Judgment for 
plaintiff with costs." In appeal, per Caylet, J. — " Set aside and case 
sent back for hearing. The defendant appeared on the day of trial, 
so that the case is not one of default. The onus of proof being on 
the plaintiff, he was bound to prove his case before iudgment could 
be given in his favour. " 



Borden of 
proof. 



C R. Galle, 46474. The plaintifl, who had been fireman on board Execution 
the steamer Leith, sued the defendant (the Captain) for the recovery against person. 
of Rs 9, being wages for overtime. The Commissioner (Lee) having 
heard plaintiff's evidence gave judgment for him on the 5th July. 
On the 8th July, plaintiff's bill of costs was taxed at Rs. 1. 70 cents, 
and writ against person was allowed and issued. In appeal, per 
Catlet, J. — " The judgment of the oth July, 1873,13 affirmed, but 
the order of the 8th July, so far as relates to the writ against person, 
is set aside. Bach party is to bear his own costs of appeal, if any. 
It appears from the proceedings and the letter of the learned Com- 
missioner, that the only issue raised at the trial was, whether the 
plaintiff performed the work for which he has claimed extra wages; 
and the plaintifl 's evidence on this point being uncontradicted, judg- 
ment was properly entered in his favor. With regard to the writ 
against the person of the defendant, the Supreme Court thinks that it 
was not competent for the Court of Requests to issue such writ. 
By the 47th clause of the Ordinance 7 of 1863, a seaman is empow- 



Sept. 9 



} 



44 PART II. — 

ered to sue for wages in a Court of Requests, notwithstanding that the 
amount claimed exceeds £ 10; and it is enacted that the order of 
the Court may be enforced by writ against person as well as acainst 
property, notwithstanding any former law or Ordinance to the 
contrary. The question must here, however, be governed by the 
Ordinance 11 of 1868, by the 87th clause of which it is enacted that 
a judgment pronounced by the Commissioner of any Court of Requests 
shall, in all cases, be enforced by execution against the property or 
funder the provisions of the 165th section of the Ordinance 7 of 1853) 
against the property and person of the party condemned therein. So 
that, since the passing of this Ordinance, execution against person in 
all Courts of Requests cases, is subject to the provisions of the 165th 
clause of Ordinance 7 of 1853, by which imprisonment for debt not 
exceeding £10 is expressly confined to cases of fraud only.'' 



Landlord and ''• ^- Colombo, 91943. Plaintifi sued the defendant as his tenant 
tenant. for rent alleged to be due for the months of March and April, 1873. 
The defendant in his answer pleaded payment to one Teagappah, un- 
der a judgment of this Court in N"o. 91575, and disputed plaintifi's 
right as landlord. It appeared that Tea:;appah had entered into an 
agreement in 1861 to convey the premises in question to plaintiff, hut 
had failed to do so. A District Court suit, No. 59,203, had subse- 
quently been instituted by plaintifl for specific performance, but 
he had been nonsuited on a technical objection raised against the libeL 
In that suit, Teagappah in his answer had admitted that he had let 
the plaintifl into possession and had expressed his willingness to grant 
a conveyance. Defendant in the pi'esent case had paid rent to 
plaintifl from 1861, till the date of the nonsuit which was in 1873, 
but it was contended that such payment of rent had been made at the 
request of Teagappah. The Commissioner (Liverd) having given judg- 
ment for plaintifl, the defendant appealed. 

Grenier, for respondent, on being called upon, submitted that the 
admissions contained in the answer in the District Court case disclosed 
an equitable title in plaintiff, which defendant had acknowledged for 
more than 10 years by payment of rent. Besides, plaintifi having 
admittedly been placed in possession of the house had acquired a bona 
fide right by prescription as against Teagappah, in whose favor the 
defendant had collusively allowed judgment to go by default in 91575 
for the amount now claimed by plaintiff. 

Kelhj, for appellant, in reply. — Plaintifl had clearly no legal title to 
shew, for if he had he would not have instituted the District CouM 
case referred to. Defendant had not entered under plaintiff, but 



COURTS OF REQUESTS. 45 \ g^p^ 9_ 

under the original owner under whom Teagappah claimed, and the 
payment of rent to plaintifi had been at the instance of Teagappah. 

Per Oatlet, J — " Set aside and plaintiff nonsuited with costs. It 
appears to the Supreme Court that the plaintift has failed to prove her 
right to recover from the defendant the rent claimed. The defend- 
ant entered into possession of the house as tenant of one Segapatchy. 
Upon Segapatchy's death, defendant paid rent for some time to her 
grandson Teagappah ; who, as appears from the present plaintiff's 
libel in case No. 59,203, D. C. Colombo, inherited the premises from 
Segapatchy. Subsequently, at the request of Teagappah, defendant 
paid rent to the plaintiff. After the decision of the District Court 
case whicli plaintiff brought against Teagappah for specific perform- 
ance of an agreement to convey this property, and in which plaintiff^ 
was nonsuited, Teagappah withdrew his request by suing the defen- 
dant for the rent then due. Defendant allowed judgment to go by 
default. Plaintiff now sues for the rent which defendant has paid to 
Teagappah. Plaintiff has, however, failed to prove her title to the house; 
and, whatever equitable rig-hts she may have to a conveyance of the 
property under the deed of the 28th September, 1861, upon which the 
District Court case was brought, she cannot, until she has enforced 
these rights, sue the defendant, who did not enter as her tenant 
and only paid her rent at the request of the admitted legal owner 
which request was subsequently withdrawn." 



C. R. Urvgalla, \»Qi1. The defendant had executed a bond, in Unauthorised 
June 1 870, in favor of Kalu Banda, the father of the minor child on payment of a 
whose behalf plaintiff sought to recover the amount due theron. Bond 
Defendant having pleaded payment to Kalu Banda's mother. Rang 
Menika, the Commissioner {Power) nonsuited the plaintiff in the 
following terms : " It does not appear that defendant was aware of the 
existence of the child, or that any demand on its behalf by plaintifi 
was made to defendant on Kalu Banda's death. He is not supposed 
to know there was a child, and therefore has paid the money to de- 
ceased's mother against whom I think plaintiff should proceed." In 
appeal, (Ferdinands, for appellant, Dias for respondent) per Catlet, 
J. — " Set aside and judgment entered for the minor plaintiff for Rs. 
100 and costs of suit. Kalu Banda's mother, not having taken out 
letters of Administration to her son's estate, was not authorized to 
receive a debt due to her son, the latter haviug left a child, who under 
the Kaiidyan law would be entitled to inherit his personal property. 
The RslOO mu,5t be paid into Court and deposited in the Loan Board 
for the benefit of the minor." 



Sept. 9. ' '^^ ^^^'^ ""- 



Landlord and C. R. Trincomalie, 2S7 58. The facts of the case are set forth ia 
tenant. the following judgment of the Commissioner (Templer) — "The 
defendant occupied the plaintifl's house, payiifg a rent of Rs 12-50 
per mensem. On the 7th October, the plaintiff (Buttery) wrote to de- 
fendant {Hunter) the letter marked A, stating that he wanted a rent of 
Rs 22.50 per mensem, and telling defendairt that, in case he should 
refuse to take the house at that rent, he must leave it on the 1st 
November. Defendant sent the reply marked B, dated 16th Octoher, 
asking the plaintiff to allow him the occupation of the house until the 
1st December at the then rate Rs 12.50 and taxes, and saying that 
he could not pay the higher rent. To this the defendant replies, by 
letter C on 11 th November, telling the defendant to vacate his house 
on 1st December or pay rent at Rs. 30.50. I take this last letter to 
be a fresh lease granted by the plaintiff at the old rate, but stipulat- 
ing for the vacation of the house on the 1st December. There is na 
other explanation of the letter. The defendant made a request to be 
allowed to occupy the house at the old rate until the 1st December, 
and the plaintiff tells him he may occupy it until then ; says nothing, 
it is true, about the terms ; but this avoidance of any reference to 
terms was, I consider, a tacit admission or acceptance of those pro- 
posed by Hunter. I hold that the plaintiff is not entitled to any in- 
creased rent, but is only entitled to what was tendered to him by 
defendant and refiised. Judgment for plaintiff for the sum of Rs. 26-50, 
but the plaintiff to pay all the costs of this case." In appeal, ( Gremer 
for respondent) per Catlet, J.-" Affirmed. The Supreme Court 
thmks that the construction put upon the letters B and C by the Com- 
missioner is correct." 



Mesne profits C. R. Pasyala, 188R. The following judgment of the Commissioner 
Prescription,' (Byrde) explains the facts of the case: "the plamtiff m this case 
sues for the recovery of £9 18s., being alleged mesne profits of the 
land called Kebellegaha Cumbura during the years 1868 andl 869. It 
appears from the evidence adduced in the Colombo District Court 
case No 53866, that Andris' father, the owner of the lands in dispute 
in that case, apportioned his property between Andris and his elder 
sister the mother of the defendants, i. e., between Andris and Punchy 
Hamy, the 1st defendant in this present case. The decision of the 
District Judge incase No. 53866 places the land Kebellegaha Cum- 
bura definitely in the possession of the plamtiff, Loko Ettena; ana 
from the evidence of the defendants themselves they possessed and 
enioved the fruits of Kebellegaha Cumbura for 2 years, i. e, durmg 
the pendency of the District Court case From I st July, 1868 to 5th 
December 1 870, there appear to have been only two harvests, that 



COURTS OF REQUESTS. 47 \ g^^,^ g_ 

is, the harvest prior to 4th June, 1869, and that prior to 5th December, 
1870. The "witness Baronchy states that the crop of the year in 
which the District Court case was instituted was 40 bushels, and that 
of the year previous 50 bushels. This is of material value to establish 
the average crop of the Kebellegaha Cumbura, of which the plaintiff 
claims the mesne profits. Baronchy states, in District Court case iNo. 
53866, that the ground share is about 25 bushels a year at 3s. per 
bushel, and I do not think this evidence, adduced to prove the value 
of the land in liispute, can in any way bar the plaintiff from instituting 
this case for mesne profits for the two years durnig which she was 
ousted from her lawful possession by the defendants, who, after the 
plaintiff had commenced the cultivation, took the continuation out of 
her hands, forcibly retaining possession, and enjoyed the friuts of the 
land which are adjudged to be hers, and which she inherited, bvit 
which the defendants cultivated and claimed as theirs by right. I am 
therefore of opinion that the crop of the Kebellegaha Cumbura was 
about an average of 35 bushels, and that the Government share was 
about 9 bushels. Of the balance 26 bushels, I consider the cultivator 
is entitled, by virtue of risk and labor, to one-half or 13 bushels per 
annum. I therefore find the defendants liable to the plaintiff for the 
average value of the ground share for 2 years at 13 bushels per annum 
or 26 bushels at 3s. per bushel or Rs. 39. Costs of suit to be divided." 
In appeal, per Catlet, .J. — " Affirmed but amended as herein after 
stated. In this case, the plaintiff has I'ecovcred mesne profits in 
consequence of defendants having held possession from the 1st of 
July, 1868, to the 5th of December, 1870, of certain land decreed to the 
plaintiff in case No. 53866, D. C. Colombo. During this time there 
were only two harvests, one ending the 4th of June, 1869, and 
the other the 5th of December, 1870. The plaintiff brought her action 
for the land in question with several other lands, on the 4th of June, 
1869, and claimed mesne profits accruing both before action brought 
anA. pendente lite. She obtained judgment for the land in question, 
but, as to the rest of her claim, was expressly nonsuited. Having 
been nonsuited as to her claim for mesne profits in the previous action, 
there is nothing to prevent her from instituting a new action to recover 
them ; but the question arises how far her claim is prescribed, the 
present action having been brought on the 20th of July, 1871. It 
was decided in the case No. 1108, D. C. Kurunegala, (Supreme Com-t 
Minutes, 7th July, 1871) under the Ordinance 8 of 1834, (by which 
Ordinance the present case must be determined) that mesne profits 
are in the nature of damages, and are prescribed in two years ; but 
that, if an action has been brought to try title to the land, without 
a claim for mesne profits being luade, and, after the decision of that 



Sept. 12. 



48 PART II. — 

action, a new action is instituted for their recovery, the two years will 
be counted, not from the commencement of the action to recover mesne 
profits, but from the commencement of the former action, which was 
brought to try the title. The ground upon which this decision is based 
is that the delay, arising during the pendency of the former suit, is 
the delay of the Court and that actus curim nemini facit mjuriam. In 
the present case, however, the mesne profits having been claimed in 
the first action, the delay is not due to the Court; but to the default 
of the plaiutiffi who failed to establish her claim to the satisfaction of 
the Judge ; so that the principle laid down in the case 13080, 1). C. 
Caltura (Supreme Court Minutes, 18th August, 1 855) would seem to 
be applicable. In that case it was decided that where an action had 
been brought upon a bond within 10 years from its date and had been 
subsequently struck oft for want of prosecution, and a second action 
had been afterwards brought upon the same instrument, after 10 years 
had elapsed from the date of the bond, but within ten years from the 
date of the previous action having been struck ofi, the second action 
is prescribed. And referring to the language of the Ord inauce 8 of 
1834 no distinction can be drawn, so far as relates to this question, 
between actions on bonds and actions for mesne profits. The claim 
for the produce taken up to the -tth June, 1869, will accordingly be 
prescribed ; and the amount of the judgment will be reduced by one 
half. In other respects, the judgment will be affirmed, Each party 
will have to bear his own costs of appeal." 



September 12. 
Present Catley, J. 
Paddy tax- C. R. Panadure, 15395. Plaintiff, who was a Government paddy 
renter, claimed Rs. 40, being the value of 40 bushels of paddy which 
he alleged were due to him as half share. The defendants pleaded 
that the field in question was subject to only one-fourth and not one- 
half duty. The plaintiff, after leading evidence to prove cultivation 
by defendant, filed an assessment wattoo for 1872 and closed his case, 
For the defence, it was contended that the action could not be main- 
tained until it was decided what share of the produce the Government 
was entitled to. The Commissioner (Morgan) held that the onus was 
on the defendant (who called no evidence) and entered judgment for 
plaintiff as prayed for. In appeal, per Caylet, J.—" Set aside 
and case sent back for further hearing. It is iuouiiibent upon the 
plaintiff to prove his claim, and for this purpose it is necessary that be 
should prove to what share he is, as Government paddy renter, en- 
titled, and should also give some evidence as to the amount and value 
of the crop taken by the defendant." 



COURTS OF REQUESTS. 49 



Sept. 19. 



September 1 9. 
Present Stewart, J. 
C. R. Kiirunegala, 29-285. The plaintiff sued for the recovery of 0>yner of an 
Rs. 30, "being value of a bullock, belonging to plaintiff, gored and killed ^^^ ^^: ^^ 
by a bullock belonging to defendant, on the 17th day of June, 1873." caused by it- 
On the plaintiff closing his case, the Commissioner (de Saram) held 
as follows : "It is not proved that the defendant's bullock is of such a 
fierce nature as to render it unsafe to let it graze about without 
being secured. The plaintiff is non-suited with costs." In appeal, 
(i^er(ZiMan.rf5 for appellant) per Stewart, J. — "Set aside and judgment 
to be entered for plain tiff for Rs. 30 and costs. There was no occasion 
to prove that the defendant's bullock was of a fierce nature. According 
. to the general rule of the Roman Dutch law, the owner of a brute 
animal is liable for the injury it has caiwed. See judgment of Supreme 
Court, October 29th, ISflO, in Jaffna, 0, E. 25869, Beven and Mills, 
part 10, page 53. See also as to Kandyan law, Austin, page 51." 



C. R. Galle, 43083. This was an action by a landlord on a lease Lease, 
to recover rent due thereon. The defendants pleaded that they had 
not been let into possession, by the interference of third parties who 
claimed title to the land in question. On the day of trial, the Com- 
miasioner, (Zee) without entering into evidence, entered judgment for 
plaintiff as prayed for la the following terms: "The defendants 
admit the entry into possession, and the fact of the defendants having 
been interrupted, if they were so, is no defence, though it entitles 
them to an action against the interrupters." In appeal, per Stewart; 
J. — "Set aside and case remanded for hearing. The defendants 
should have been allowed an opportunity of adducing their evidence 
and proving that the plaintiffs promised to make an amicable settle- 
ment of the District Court case, the issue in which would seem, ac- 
cording to the defendants, to comprise the dispute in the present case." 



September 23. 

Present Stewart, J. 

C. R. Colombo, 92553. The plaintiff sued on the 25th June, 1873, Costs, 
to recover Rs. 59, as balance due on shop bills. The defendant 
brought that sum into Court, denying his liability to pay costs on the 
ground that there had been no previous demand. The defendant 
stated on his oath that he had made a part payment in March, that 
wheij the bill was subsequently presented in June he had asked 



Skpt. 23. {^^ fASTlL- 

plaintifi to wait till the end of that month ; and that the plaintiff 
thereupon went away perfectly satisfied. In cross examination the 
defendant admitted that the bill had been presented in January and 
March. The Commissioner (Livera) gave iudgment for plaintiff, but 
cast him in the entire costs of the suit. In appeal, (OnJaatjie tov 
appellant, Orenier for respondent) per Stewart, J. — " Affirmed. 
According to the evidence of the defendant, not only was there no 
NJemand for immediate payment, but he was led by the plaintiff to 
believe that plaintiff would wait till the end of June. Under these 
circumstances, the suit having been instituted on the 25tli June, 
before the expiration of the time agreed upon, the plaintiff was 
properly cast in costs." 



Proctor and f^- jR- Urugala, 1,940. The facts of the case are fnlly set forth 
client. in the foUowingjudgmentof the Commissioner (PowerJ. — " The plain- 
tiffs in this case seek to recover the sum of fifty rupees (Rs 50) being 
money paid to the defendant, their proctor (Bartholomews z) in case 
No. 1499, C. R. Urugala, for the purpose of employing an Advocate 
in appeal. Three witnesses have sworn to having seen this money 
paid to the defendant,— that this was on the 9th November, and tiat 
the defendant told his clients to come on the 13th to sign — what they 
do not seem to know. But it appears, however, that both of them did 
come to the Court on the 1 3th November, and on that day signed the 
security bond in appeal, which is in the defendant's hand writing and 
witnessed by him. This constitates the case for the plaintiffs. The 
defendant in the first part of his examination states he cannot say if an 
Advocate appeared in appeal, as he has lost his books and has not them 
to refer to. He afterwai-ds admits having received in all from the 
plaintiffs £3 3s., being £1 Is. his fee for conducting the case, and 
which was paid him at the time his services were engaged, and £2 29. 
paid him at the time he wrote the petition of appeal. That of this 
money £1 Is. was his fee for writing the appeal petition, and £1 Is. 
the Advocate's fee. That he further paid a pleading drawer 3s. 
for making a copy of the case to be sent to the Advocate, and that 
the balance being insufficient for the Advocate's fee, he directed his 
client to bring him 6s. more and he would engage the services of an 
Advocate. That this money not having been paid him, he engaged 
no Advscate. The Court considers that the charge of £1 Is. for 
writing the petition of appeal is exorbitant. The £1 Is., first paid 
and accepted, was for conducting the case to its final issue. I cannot 
believe that £5 was paid as plaintiffs say, for they must have known 
that it was very much more than was necessary. But at the same 



COtJKTS Ot' EeqOests. 51 

time, I consider that the defendant has retained money which he 
should have paid to an Advocate, and which was paid him for the 
purpose of engaging one. I allow the five shillings paid to the plead- 
ing drawer, though I think it is high, and enter judgment for plaintiifs 
for the balance of £2 2s., paid at the time of drawing the appeal 
petition. Judgment is entered for plaintiifs for £1 17s., or Bs. )8'50 
and costs of suit." In appeal, per Stewart, J. — Affirmed. 



Sept. 26. 



September 26. 
Present Stewabt, J. 
C. R. Matara, 27836. This was an action instituted in June, 1 873, Damages on an 
to recover liquidated damages for breach of a notarial agreement *g''s^'"'^" ° 
entered into by defendant in 1864 to marry plaintift's sister. Judg- 
ment by default having been entered, the defendant subsequently 
moved to re-open judgment on an affidavit which set forth that he 
had been unable to attend at the trial on account of ill-health, and 
that he had a true and honest defence on the merits. The Com- 
missioner (Jumeaux) having rejected the motion, the defendant ap- 
pealed. Gpenier, for appellant. — The agreement was on the face of it 
of an immoral character, and could not be legally enforced, it having 
been stipulated that plaiutiflf's sister should live with defendant for 
six months, and that thereafter banns were to be published and the 
marriage was to be consummated. [That is the usual practice amongst 
natives of that class — Stewart, J.] Bnt no custom could make that 
moral which the law distinctly declared to be immoral. Apart from 
this, the laches of the plaintiff, in delaying the action for nine years, 
should be viewed with suspicion, and it was open to the Supreme 
Court to afford equitable relief under the 18th clause of the Kules 
and Orders by allowing the defendant to enter into his defence. [I 
should have been inclined to do this, if defendant had explained in 
his affidavit the reason why he had failed to carry out his agreement. 
— Stewart, J.] Affirmed. 

0. R. Colombo, 92153. The plaintifl claimed Rs. 75, as value of a Damages. 
boundary wall which he alleged defendant had destroyed. The 
defendant denied the plaintifi'a right to the wall, but admitted 
having pulled down the same and rebuilt a more substantial one. 
The Surveyor who had examined the premises with reference to the 
deeds of both parties, stated that the wall in question stood entirely 
within plaintifi's land. The Commissioner (de Livera) held as follows : 
" The plaintift claims the value of his wall which was broken down by 



Sept. 30. 



52 PART II. — 

the defendant. It appears that the wall raised in its stead is a more 
durable and substantial one. I therefore think it would be better for 
both parties to allow the wall to remain as it now stands. The case 
is dismissed, each party bearing his own costs." In appeal, {Grenier 
for appellant, Browne for respondent) per Stewart, J. — " Set aside 
and judgment entered for plaintiff for the land on which the wall 
stands and one rupee damages and costs. It will be seen from the 
answer that the defendant claimed the old wall as his property. Ac- 
cording to the evidence of the Surveyor, the ground on which the 
new wall stands (the locality is the same) is the property of the 
plaintiff. The defendant had no right to remove the old wall, which 
did not stand on his property, or to build a new wall in its place 
without the consent of the plaintiff, the owner." 



.September 30. 
Present Stewakt, J. 
Tort. ^- f^- Negombo, 2195S. Plaintifi sued for the recovery of certain 

Damages. Timber, alleged to have been illegally seized and detained by the 
defendant, and for damages consequent thereon. The answer justified 
the detention, on the ground that the plaintifi had had a jack tree cut 
down in so careless and negligent a manner that its fall had damaged 
two cocoanut trees and a large number of cofiee plants on a land of 
which defendant was the lessee, whereby defendant had sufterod a loss 
of Rs 48, which he claimed in reconvention. On these pleadings the 
case went to trial, when the Commissioner (Dawson) held as follows. 
" It is not proved that plaintifi sustained damages such as the Court 
can estimate, nor is it proved that plaintifi is the person Hable for 
damage caused by the fall of the tree ; nor is it proved that defendant 
is the person entitled to recover such damages. The claims then for 
damages on .both sides disappear. The defendant contends that he 
was iustified in detaining the timber, and that he had alien on it until 
his damages were paid. In the first place, he has not shown that he is 
the person who should hold such lieu, supposing such lien existed in law, 
I invited defendant's Proctor to find me an authority. He has not 
done so. Judgment is entered for the jackwood timber described in 
the plaint, (its value is not proved) and costs of suit." 

In appeal, Grenier, for .appellant. Plaintiff, in his examination, 
admitted that he had purchased the tree in question before it was 
felled, and as such owner he was liable to the damage caused by the 
person engaged by him to fell the same, whether such person was the 
original owner of the tree, or any other party so employed. As to the 
question of law involved, the defendant, as lessee, was fully entitled to 



COURTS OP EEQtJESTS. 53 

claim in reconvention any damage sufiered by him, the rule being 
that the actual occupier of land was the proper party to maintain 
an action for wrongful acts interfering with the beneficial use and 
enjoyment of the property, and diminishing the value of the possessory 
interest ; owners or reversioners suing only where the injury to 
the property was of a permanent character, which however was not the 
case here. The detention of the timber was bona fide, and one of the 
witnesses swore that in his presence, " the defendants called on plaintiff 
to. pay damages and remove the tree.'' But even assuming that the 
detention was improper, the Commissioner rightly held that plaintifl 
had proved no damage as resulting from such detention. The following 
cases were cited by Counsel in the course of the argument : Dobson v. 
Blackman, 9 Q. B. 991 ; Hosking v. Philips, 3 Exch : 168 ; «eding- 
field V. Onslow, 3 Lev. 209 ; Addison, 10, 158. 

Per Stewakt, J. — " Set aside. The evidence ah-eady shows that 
considerable damage was occasioned by the falling ot the tree claimed 
by the plaintiff upon the trees standing in the land leased by defend- 
ant. For this loss the defendant, although only a lessee, is entitled to 
recover. (See Addison on Wrongs, page 10.) "Tiie actual occupier 
of the land is in general the proper party to maintain an action for 
wrongfiil acts of a temporary character, interfering with the beneficial 
use and enjoyment of the property, and diminishing the value of his 
possessory interest." See also 3 Lorenz, p. -.rOg. The tree in dis- 
pute having caused damage to the property of defendant, it appears 
to the Supreme Court that defendant is warranted in detaining the 
tree, on the same principle that the proprietor of land is justified in 
detaining trespassing cattle until the damage they have committed 
has been paid. Considering the general evidence of damage, as 
well as the fact that only one year of defendant's lease for eight 
years has expired, it is decreed that judgment be entered for the 
plaintiff for the timber in question on the defendant being paid 
Ks. 35. Plaintiff to pay the costs of the defendant." 



] Sept -30 



a. R. Point Pedro, 6370. This was an appeal against a conviction Contempt, 
for Contempt. The defendant appeared to have been impertinent 
and to have questioned the justice of a decision which the Com- 
missioner {Drieherg) had pronounced against him. Per Stewart, J. 
— " Set aside. The appellant should not have been punished forth- 
with. See provisions of the 107th section, Ordinance 11 of 1868, 
which expressly requires that a party charged with contempt shall 
be bailed (or in default of baU committed) until the following day." 



Oct. 28 } ^^ ^^^^ "— 

October 21. 
Present Stewart, J. 
Malicious C. R. Colombo, Q'i.TbT. The plaintift claimed Rs. 95-7.5 as damages 

prosecution, consequent on a malicions prosecution of him by the defendant on a 

charge of theft, which said charge after a J. P. investigation had been 
dismissed under instructions from the Queen's Advocate. The de- 
fendant disclaimed malice, and denied his liability to pay the amount 
sued for, which included sums alleged to have been paid as Proctor's 
fees and for refreshments for witnesses. On the day of trial, the plain- 
tiff besides giving evidence himself called Messrs. Swan and Heyzer 
to prove that they had received four guineas ior professional services 
rendered by them, and had on different occasions been provided with 
a carriage to attend the investigation which took place at the Customs 
premises before Captain Donnan. The Conmiissioner {Livera) held 
as follows; "In the opinion of the Court the plaintiff is not entitled 
to any portion of the m(mey claimed by him. He is non-suited with 
costs," /h ajo/)ea^, per Stewart, J. — "Affirmed. There is no evi- 
dence at all of want of probable cause. The plaintiff in his evidence 
does not even distinctly state the charge against him was false." 



House-rent ^'- ^- -^"ffna, 1280, Plainliflt, as widow, sued for the recovery of 

Prescription, Rs, 47"25, being one-half of the rent due by defendant for hiue years' 
use and occupation of a certain land which had belonged to her late 
husband. The Commissioner {Murray} having given judg-ment as 
prayed for in the libel, the defendant appealed. Per Stewart, J. — 
" Altered by the amount of judgment being reduced to Rs. 18. The 
plaintiff cannot recover for more than three years' use and occupation 
before action brought. See 8th and Uth sections of Ordinance 22 of 
1871. According to the evidence, the sum agreed upon as the annual 
value of the produce was Rs. 7. The defendant did not possess after 
January 1873. Plaintiff can therefore only recover for a period of 
about 2 years and seven months. Parties to bear their own costs." 



October 28. 
Present Stewabt, J. 
C. Zf. .WataZe, 29775. Thejudgment of the Commissioner (yempfe) 
in favor of plaintift, explains the facts of the case. "This is a case 
brought by the Natande Toll-keeper against the defendant, (Fuller) 
as Road-officer of Matale District, for toll claimed on transport of 
Government bricks, rice &c., for the road department. The question, 
is, are these carts free from toll on the passes filed, as the goods were 
transported over 10 miles, i.e., 14 to DimbuUa, from the Natande 



COURTS OP BEQUESTS. 55 ) q „ .,s 

toll-station. The 19th clause of Ordinance 14 of 1867 limits the dis- 
tance to 10 miles from a toll station." Tbie defendant, in his examin- 
ation, bad stated as follows: "lam Koad-officer of Matale district, 
111 course of business I have had to send road materials, such as bricks, 
lime, tools and rice, for the support of my coolies to Dimbullii. For 
these dirts passes were given for Natande toll, a distance of 14 miles. 
The papers are signed by my clerk. They are correct. The amount 
claimed in them is Rs. 8"42. I used formerly to pay the tolls on 
vouchers drawn or made out from these orders. But about 2 years 
ago, I was ordered to issue passes within 10 miles of my district and 
not to pay ihem at all." In appeal, per Stewart, J. — " Ailirmed. 
There is no exemption in the Toll Ordinance of the nature contended 
for by the appellant. Vehicles employed in the construction of roads, 
are only exempted from toll within 10 miles of the toll station, no 
production of a certificate from the Superintending officer." 



C. R. Colombo, 90194, The plaintiff, as owner and occupier of a Dataages. 
house in Washers' quarters, complained that the defendant, who was Boundary wall 
residing in the adjoining premises, had three months ago, in the ab- ^""^ adjacent 
sence of the plaintiff at Kandy, cut a portion of plaintiff's roof and had ^°° ' 
placed a new roof on the boundary wall which separated the two 
houses. The prayer was that defendant be ordered to remove the 
sai' 1 root and pay lis. 30 as damages with costs. The defendant an- 
swered that his roof had been supported by plaintiff's wall for 10 years 
and upwards, and denied that he had caused any damage as alleged. 
The evidence, however, went to show that defendant's roof had rested 
for nearly 20 years, "and until the committing of the grievance com- 
plained of, on posts erected a few inches from the foundation of the 
wall in question over which the plaintiff's roof had overlapped. Judg- 
ment was given for plaintiff by the Commissioner {Liverd) as follows : 
" ttiere can be no doubt that defendant's roof never rested on the wall 
which separates the plaintiff's house from the defendant's premises, 
but on posts erected near its foundation. I am satisfied that defen- 
dant took advantage of plaintiff's absence and committed the damage 
alleged. Judgment is hereby entered up in favor of the plaintiff with 
costs, and the grievance complained of to be removed." Subsequently, 
it having been represented to the Court that the defendant had not 
fully carried out its decree, although he had replaced his roof on posts, 
the Commissioner after a personal inspection of the place made order 
as follows : "Defendant should lower his roof a foot and ahalf : if the 
plaintiff's rafters had not been cut by defendant, the roof could never 
rest 50 high as it does now." 



Dec. 9 } '^^ ^^^^ "- 



In appeal, Browne, for appellant. — The jud<rment of the Court be- 
low had been satisfied by the payment of damages on account of the 
plaintiff's roof which had been cut, and by the removal of defendant's 
roof from plaintiff's wall. Defendant could do as he pleased on bis 
own land, and the Commissioner was not justified in conceding more 
than had been asked for in the libel, which contained no prayer for 
general relief. 

Orenier, for respondent. — The effect of the judgment was to place, 
the parties in statu quo, and the defendant by raising his roof was 
preventing the plaintiff from replacing the cut ratters. 

Per Stewart, J. — " Affirmed. The appellant is evidently seekiiif 
to take advantage of his own wrong." 

Lonn to wife • ^- "• Colombo, 9-3220. This was an action to recover Rs. 35'50, 
liability of being value of a silk cloth and certain jewelry alleged to have been 
husband, lent by plaintiff's wife to defendant's wife. The loan was denied al- 
together in the answer, but the Commissioner (Livera) held the same 
proved, and gave judgment for plaintiff as prayed for. 

Jn appeal, Brito, for appellant. Th-? action was not maintainable, 
as the articles sued for were not necessaries supplied to defeudaut's 
wife. 

Grenier, for respondent. But the evidence disclosed a promise by 
defendant to return the goods and he was therefore liable. 

Per Stewart, J. — " Affirmed. There is evidence that the defen- 
dant promised to return the articles." 



December 9. 
Present Stewart and Catlet, J. J. 
. , C. B. Newera Eliya, 38.52. The plaintiff sued' the defendant for 

money paid. ^^ recovery of Rs. 21, " being money paid on defendant's account and 
Proctor at his request on the 15th March, 1 873." The case came on for trial 
discouraging on the 13th May, (plaintiff being represented by Mr. Proctor E. de 
a good appeal, pfr^as) when defendant, on being examined, admitted that the plaintiS 
Lad paid Mr. Proctor Bartholomeusz Rs. 21 on his (the defendant's) 
account in C. R. case 3646. The latter record not being forthcom- 
ing, the hearing was adjoined till the following day, when the case 
book was produced, and Mr. Bartholomeusz deposed as follows: " I re- 
ceived from plaintiff two gunieas on account of defendant with re- 
ference to a case in which I had appeared for defendant. I cannot 
remember the date upon which I received it." The Commissioner 
(Hartshorne) however non- suited the plaintiff, on the ground that it 
had not been proved that defendant had authorised or requested the 
plaintiff to make any payment on his account. In appeal, per Catlet, J. 



COUKTS OF REQUESTS. 57 



Dec. 9. 



" Set aside and judgment given for plaintiff as prayed. Defendant Action for 

admits that plaintiff paid Mr. Bartholomeusz twenty- one rupees (Ks. mone}' P"id. 
21) ou his, defendant's, account, but states that he rejjaid the money to ciiscoui-a"-in"- 
plaintiff. This the defendant has failed to prove. Tlie Supreme Court a good appeal, 
has read with surprise a letter filed in the case and written by the 
plaintiff's own Proctor to the Commissioner, in which the writi r states 
that to the best of his knowledge and belief his client has no grounds 
for appeal. This letter (which the Proctor has been requested to 
explain but of which he has offered no explanation) was apparently 
written with the object of prejudicing the writer's own client. 
The Commissioner has written across the letter the remark. — " If he 
wishes to appeal let him do so." It should, however, be clearly un- 
derstood that, if an appeal is filed in time, it requires no consent on 
the part of the Court below, or any recommendation on the part of 
the appellant's Proctor or any one else. It is filed as a matter of right, 
and becomes a proceeding before the Supreme Court with which the 
Court below has nothing further to do except to forward it in due 
course. The Supreme Court can only suppose that the object of the 
appellant's Proctor in endeavouring to stop the appeal for which his 
client had such good gi-ounds, was to prevent the Supi;eme Court from 
reading the very proper remarks of the Commissioner about the re- 
moval of the connected record, for which one or other of the two 
parties engaged in the case appears to have been responsible," 



THE APPEAL REPORTS. 



1873 



PART III.— DISTRICT COURTS. 



Jamiarij 9. 
Present Creasy, (J. J. and Stewart, .1. 
-D. C^ Kegalla, 144. The defendants (none of whom were officers Extortion, 
of any kind) were charged with having ''wilfully and corruptly de- 
manded and received from the complainant a sum of Rs. 5, by falsely 
accusing him of cattle-stealing." The facts of the ease are stt forth in 
the following judgment of the District .Judge (Mainwaring): " The 
accused are charged with extortion. Complainant, it appears, was seized 
and charged with having a stolen buftaloe in his possession ; and it is 
alleged that he was tied, and that the defendants extorted from his 
father a sum of Rs. 5 in order to get him untied. I consider that the 
evidence does not implicate any of the accused except the 1st. As 
regards the 1st, I am satisfied that he did ask for and receive money. 
I do not say he received Rs, 5, for I think it quite possible that the 
story of the extra rupee being borrowed by complainant's wife is an 
invention added to strengthen the case. The defence is that no com- 
plaint was made, either to the Arachchy or his son, of any money 
having been asked for and paid. I do not think much of this, as, in 
the first place, such a practice as that of extorting money from per- 
sons imder arrest is notoriously a common one, and it probably never 
entered into any one's head to complain of it to the Ara'jhchy ; and, 
in the next place, the complainant has given a very plausible reason 
for not doing so, viz:, that the 1st accused had promised to arrange 
matters." The 1st accused was accordingly found guilty and sen- 
tenced to six months' hard laljor and to pay a fine of Rs. 250. In 
appeal, affirmed. 



January •28. 
Present Creasy, C, J. and Stjewart, J. 
D. C. Jaffna, 589. This wus a criminal prosecution, under clause Abuse of 
164 of Ordinance 11 of 1868, against a Police Vidahn, in that he had power 
used the power, authority and privilege of his office to conceal an 
offence of cutting and wounding in J. P. case No. 583. The evidence 
disclosed that the accused lia<l gone into the witness' shed, on the 



Jan. -is. j- 2 PART in.- 

rlay of the trial of tlie criminal case, and had addressed the followinff 
Imguage to some of the complainiinfs wimesses : " Conceal some way 
in the evidence as regards the persons and the knives, and say as re- 
gards persons that you saw some persons like them, and as regards 
the knives that they carried something, you can't say cudo-els or 
knives. You should say you only saw the prisoners' backs."" And 
when one witness represented he might get into trouble by giviti* 
contradictory evidence, he was told by the Vidahn " I will be respon- 
sil)le." The District Judge { Roonmalecncq) held as follows : — 

" The Court is of opinion that the clau>e 164 of the Administration 
of Justice Ordinance will'hardly bear out the charge under which the 
prisoner is indicted. The Courfr believes that the construction to be 
put on the words of the said clause, has reference to acts done by any 
lieadman, in regard to charges to be investigated by Justices of the 
Peace, on affidaiits made before them ; and the words ' conceal any 
ottence ' apply peculiarly to such cases, anil not to cases that have 
alrcidy been fully investigated by a J. P„ and wherein parties have 
been already i ommitted for trial, such as the present case; for the act 
complained of is the improper conduct of the prisoner, as headman, 
enrleavouring to lead witnesses foi- the pro-ii'cution to give a different 
kind of evidence to that given by them before the J. P., which, Ac- 
cording to the evidence, discloses almost subornation of perjury, if 
not altojether so.*' * Therefore the Court rules that the ' concealment 
of an otfence ' under the lG4th clause, is a bona fide concealment alto- 
gi'ther of the offence, so that it should not see light if possible and 
be brought forward for invpstigation bv an v Justice of the Peace; 
and does not and cannot apply to a case like the present, where the 
offence has been already bronsht to light, fully investigated and the 
parties chnrged hronglit to trial. '\A'liat the prisoner has done, ac- 
cording to the evidence, is that he tampered with evidence, so as to 
frustrate the ends of justice, which, in the opinion of the Court, cannot 
be cognizable under the 16)th clause of the Administration of Justice 
Ordinance." 

/« appeal, (Dias for respondent) the judgment was set nside and 
case sent ba"k for further heariun- ; and per Okkasy, C. J. — "After 
reading the District Jiulije's Letter of 18th 1) 'cember last,"' the Su- 
preme Court is of opinion that this cas? couifs within the clause 164 
of Ordinance 11 of 1S68. The objecti m, as tak?n at the trial, that 
tlie clause only applies in regard of charges I o be investigated by a 
Justice of the Peace, is utterly untenable. But the Supreme C"urt 
had some doubt whether the defendant was proved to have used his 
official position in order to induce the witu'.sses in case 583 to conceal 

* The letter was in reply to a rcferonfn m-wlo by tlic Supr:'mc C^nrt, 
nnrl was to the effect that the District Judge wns of opininn ihittlic »it- 
ncsses had garbled their st-itements in ./. I', cise :")8 !, li.iviuy been iailiic- 
eil thereto liv the Vidalni. 



DISTRICT COURTS. - 3 

the fact of the accused parties in that case being the real criminals; 
but it is now evident that the witnesses were induced to garble their 
evidence in consequence of the influence exercised on them by the 
knowledge ofthis defendant's official position and power. The defendant 
was aware that they knew his official posiiion, and he must be taken 
to have intended the natural consequence of his conduct. The pvo- 
ceeding at the trial, of moving to strike ott the ease, was extremely 
irregular. The proper course was to claim a verdict of acquittal; and 
the Judge should, after hearing all the evidence, have determined that 
matter. As it is, we shall allow the case to go back for the witnesses 
for the defence, if any, to be heard, and the case to be duly proceed- 
ed with." 



I- 



AN. 28. 



D. C. Jaffna, 2450. Judgment had been entered up in 1847, in Prescription, 
favor of plaintiff, for a sum of £8 12s. 6d., being value of a ring which 
defendant had borrowed fi-om him in 1844. In 1851, writs against 
person and property of the debtor issued ; but shortly afterwards, the 
plaintiff having died, they were recalled. After a delay of nearly 13 
years, diu'ing which time a series of motions and notices were made 
and issued in the case, for the purpose of enforcing the decree, the 
plaintiff's widow, in February 1864, moved for and obtained a Rule 
Nisi on the defendant to shew cause why judgment should not be revived 
and writs reissued. In September 1864, the defendant attended and 
pleaded payment to the original creditor, whereupon he was ordered 
to adduce proof, but did not. No further steps were taken till 1869, 
when a fresh Rule issued, to which the Fiscal made a return that de- 
fendant had left the country. In November 1 872, a third Rule issued, 
at the instance of the plaintiff's widow and heirs, which was argued 
in December last and made absolute with costs. In appeal, against 
this interlocutory order, Gmaier, for the respondent, on being called 
upon, urged that the different Rules which had issued from time to 
time had saved the judgment from being prescribed. Under the 5tli 
clause of Ordinance 22 of 187 1 , it would be sufficient to bar prescrip- 
tion if, in the event of the judgment not having been duly revived, 
any writ, warrant or other process of law had been issued to enforce 
the same. A Rule was the only other process, besides a warrant or 
writ, that could possibly be issued from their Courts, and that process 
had been availed of, Sed per Curiam. — " Set aside. There has been 
no actual issue of any ' writ, warrant or process of law ' to enforce 
the judgment, such as is required by Ordinance 22 of 1871, clause 5." 



D. 0. Trinc.omalie, 20831 Held that the absence of defenda;it's Postponement. 
Proctor was per se no sufficient ground for a postponement. 



PART III. 



Jan. 28. I "^ 

Evitlense. D. C. Jaffna, 585. The defendants, who were charged with cut- 

ting and wounding, were acquittid by the District Judofe, in the 
following tenns : " The evidence as again.st the prisoners heing, in 
the mind of the Court, insufficient to satisfy the Court -to conyict 
them on the charge, it behoves the Court to give the prisoners the 
benefit of any doubts, such doubts being reasonable ; and only on such 
grounds are the prisoners acquitted, but not on the evidence adduced 
by the priso lers." In appeal, the iul^injnt was set aside ; and per 
Creasy, C. J. -" We are not satisfied with the decision in this case; 
and we sot aside the judgment accordingly. We further, as empower- 
ed by Ordinance iNi'. 1 1 of 186S, clause il, order this prosecution to 
be transferred to the Supreme Court. The case can very well be 
tried at the .Taftna sessions which will begin in the present week. 
It is better that it should come on as far as possible as a res nom\ 
and we therefore abstain from any comment." 



Trosumption V. C. Manaar, 6543. The plaintiffs, as executors, sued to recover 
of (layuicnt jjj. 310, being the amount of a bond, dated 1863, in favor of their 
testator. The defendant prod ed the bond, pleading payment;;,? 
witliout however any endorsement of cancellation or payment on the 
document. The District Judge (Baileij) held that, in the absence 
of any evidence on the part of the plaintiffs of non-payment, there 
was nothing to rebut the presumption that the debt had been dis- 
charged, /?( op/jcaZ, (GreHier for appellant,) the judgment was set 
aside and case sent back for further hearing ; and per Stewart, 
J. — " The plaintiffs sue in this case as executors. It appears to us 
that the creditor being dead, it will be more satisfactory that the de- 
fendant should produce some evidence as to the payment. There is 
nothing at present beyond the mere examination of the defendant, 
which does not appear on the first or second occasion to have been, 
taken on oath. Costs to stand over.'' 



Absolved from ^- ^'- /^ntoo?-«, -25031. Plaintiff complained of an encroachment 
the instance, by defendant. The portion of land in dispute appeared to have 
formed the subject of a suit between the same parties in 1851, when, 
after evidence heard on both sides, the defendant had been absolved 
from the instance with costs. In the present case, the Judge 
"(^rfa)K«) held that, " having regard to the ill-will which the then 
District Judge refers to in his judgment, the Court would require the 
strongest evidence to prove that defendant had given up his right 
to the land, and there is no sucli evi<lciice b fore tlie Court." Plain- 
tiff' was consequently non-suited. In appeal, (Dias for appellant, 
Bi'ito for respondentj per Curiam. — "Affirmed, This is an attempt 
to reverse a decision of the District Court, confirmed by a decision of 



1 DISTRICT COURTS- 5 

the Supreme Court more than twenty years ago. It is true that the 
termer result of the case of 1851 was judgment not expressly for de- 
fendant, but a judgment that defendant be absolved from the instance. 
Such judgments have sometimes been regarded as mere non-suits, 
where both sides had not been heard, or where, on the second trial, 
new and important evidence is produced. But the defendant in this 
case did nothing more than impugn the old judgment, and the Sup- 
reme Court thinks that the second decision against him was quite 
right." 



|. Fan. 30. 



January 30. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
D. C. Colombo, 60341. The plaintiff claimed, by inheritance Uusufaict. 
and lung possession, a certain Owitte as against the defendants, who 
pleaded that the same was a part of an adjoining field belonging to 
them. After hearing much conflicting evidence on both sides, the 
District Judge held as follows . " I can only hold that neither party 
has established an exclusive and definite title to the intermediate land 
in this case, and can only give judgment to any party to the extent of 
the proof of the uses he has been in the habit ot exercising on it. 
With respect to the plaintiff, it is proved beyond question (not that 
I much credit his witness) that he has been in the habit of planting 
beds of yams and other vegetables on the land. Agonis himself 
proved this ; and, on the other hand, it is not proved that for doing so 
he gave defendants or the owners of the field any ground share or 
made other acknowledgment of their superior right, for the Court 
does not believe Agonis on the matter of payment of ground share. 
As respects the defendants, it is proved that the owners of the 
field have been in the hubit of threshing their paddy on it at pleasnre. 
It will be decreed that this Owitte is an appurtenance of the adjoining 
field, for the use of the owners thereof to thresh and to stack the paddy 
thereof thereon, and for other ordinary agricultural uses in connec- 
tion with the cultivation of the said field, liut subject to the right of 
the plaintiffs, acquired by long user, to plant beds of yams and other 
vegetables thereon, such plantation not being to the prejudice or 
hindrance of the ordinary agricultural uses above referred to by the 
owners of the field. Parties will bear their own costs ; and if any fur- 
ther dispute arisej as to the joint possession, they are strongly recom- 
mended to refer it to the decision of their A'illage Gansabe. The 
present suit must have cost at least three probably four times the 
value in cash of the lanl." 

hi appeal, the defendants urged, in their petition, that the Owitte be- 
ing taken as an appurtenance of tlieir field, plaintiff could not acquire 
any title by merely occasionally planting vegetables thereon ; and 
that such planting wns not an easement or other incorpm-eal right for 



Fim. 4. 



I'AHT 111. — 



wliieli one might prescribe as against another's land. Sed peb 
Curiam. — " Affirmed." 



Provisional -D- C. Jaffna, 850. Held that where the Fiscal's return only shew- 
judgmeiit. ed the S'Tvice of the summons on the defendant, and there was no 
proof that he had been served with copies of the documents sued upon, 
the plaintiff was not entiiled to provisional judgment. 



February 4. 

Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

I'lcsci iption. D. C. Maiiaar, 65112. This was an action to recover damages con- 
sequent on an alleged tort which plaintiff, in his examination, admitted 
defendant had been gviilty of so far back as 1 867. The District Judge, 
on the motion of defendant's Proctor, dismissed plaintifl's claim 
on the ground of prescription, which, however, had not been formally 
pleaded in the Answer. In appeal, (^Grenier for respondent) per 
Stewart, J. — "Affirmed. The term of prescription is stated in the 
Answer. But in strictness, prescription should have been specifically 
pleaded in bar. The Supreme Court would send the case back for 
the plea to be formally pleaded, but that it is obvious, from the plain- 
tiff's examination, that he is not in a position to set up any valid and 
binding promise to take the case out of the Prescriptive Ordinance." 



Award. D. C. Colombo, 59213. The matters in dispute between the par- 

ties, affecting the right to a certain land, were with their consent 
referred by the District Judge, on the 30th October, 1871, to the 
final arbitation of Abeyesekere Modliar whose award was to be made 
on or before the 1st of December following. The award, as tendered 
to the Court, was dated the 16th April, 1872 ; and on the plaintiff, in 
whose favor the arbitrator had decided, moving that the award be 
made a rule of Court, the defendant's Proctor objected to the recep- 
tion of the document, on the grounds that the award was not on stamp 
and that it had been made long after the fixed date. The Judge, 
however, ruled that the dating and filing of the award as committed 
to writing had nothing to do, necessarily, with the date of making and 
publication, which might have been previously by oral delivery in the 
licai-ing of the parties ; and that, in the absence of any evidence, the 
Court would not presume that the arbitrator had failed in his duty. 
The want of stamp was held not to affVct the validity of the award ; 
and " it was a complete answer to the defect that the winning party 
sued as a pauper." 



DISTRICT COl-RTS. 7 

In appeal, (Grenjer for appellant) per Stevvvrt, J.— " S-t aside, 
and the motion of the plaintiff, that the award be inii.de a rule of 
Court, disallowed. The award at the for.t bears date I6th A'lril, and 
is accompanied by a letter of the same date. Thero is no su ''iesfion 
whatever in the proceedings that the award was made before the 1 st 
December. It appears to the Supreme, Court that it would be apply- 
ing a very forced construction to hoi I that it was made months before 
its date. Costs to stand over.'' 



Van. 4. 



bulk. 



February 6. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

69 
D. C. Batticaloa, ]6907-— This -was a suit, at the instance of the Breaking 
Crown, to recover a sum of Rs. 500, being the penalty awarded, by the 
Collector of Customs for the Eastern Province, against the defendant 
for a breach of clause 20 of Ordinance 17 of 1869. The answer put 
in issue the legality oi the fine ; but it having been proved at the 
trial, that the defendant had landed 12 cases of brandy at night, with- 
out the usual authority from the Customs officials, the (Jourt below 
gave judgment for plaiutift. In appeal, Dias, for the appellant, con- 
tended that a distinction was very clearly drawn, iu the 20th clause 
of the Ordinance, between " unloading " and " bi'eaking bulk," the 
penalty for the former being a forfeiture of the goods and for the 
latter the imposition of a fine not exceeding £ 1 J. In this case, even 
accepting the evidence as reliable, there had been only an unloading, 
and the fine of £50 could not be recovered. It would have been 
difierent, if the defendant had opened the cases and brought only part 
of the brandy to shore. The judgment was, however, affirmed, the 
Supreme Court holding that the act complained of came within the 
meaning of the term " breaking bulk." 



D. C. Trincomalie, 20826. The plaintiff, as executor of the es- 
tate of her late husband, claimed a certain house and land, on a bill of 
sale dated 19th April, 1 8f)9, in favor of the testator. The defendant' 
relied mainly on possession and questioned |)laintiff!s title. Defendant 
in her examination Slated : '• M and K occu[)ied the out-houses. I 
do not get the rent. Plaintiff would :iot let them pay the rent to me, 
and she took it. That was 4 years ago.'' It was proved that, ever 
since plaintiff's husband's purchase in 1859, he had permitted the de- 
fendant to occupy the premises without payment of rent, probably 
intending to make over the property ultimately to him ; and that 
there had been no dispute till within a year ago. The District Judge 
{Moir) held that defendant was entitled to judgm-nt, by reason of his 
adverse and pres.;riptive posses.sion, and accordingly di.^inissed plain- 
tiff's claim with co.-<ts. In appeal, (the Queen's Aduncate, Greiiicr 



rreseiiption. 



Fj-.b. 4, 



8 PART III. 

with Jiiin, for appellant, and Diasiov respondent,) per Creasy, C. J, 
— " Set aside, and judgment to be given to the plaintiff for possessiou 
of the premises mentioned in the libel. We are very unwillincr to 
interfere nith the judgment of District Courts on questions of 
facts, but it appears to us that the learned District Judge has over- 
looked the defendant's admission, that the plaintiff interfered and took 
the rents four years before the trial, i. e., in 1868. That clearly pre- 
vented the completion of the defendant's prescriptive title ; even 
supposing that any title by usucapio was then growing up in his favor ; 
and even this seems to us to be at least very doubtful." 



Coals. D. C. Galle, 33269. This was an action by Delmege, Reid and 

Co. against Thompson, Vinay and Co. and another, to recover a sum 
of Rs. 1400, being the value of a certain quantity of coal which had 
been collected by the third defendant, on the sea beach adjoining his 
land, and sold by him to the co-defendants, who were about to remove 
the snme when they were prevented by an Injunction. The coal in 
question was admitted to be such as had fallen overboard when beinor 
unladen from the ship or the lighters, and had been wasked on shore 
or gathered at sea ; but the evidence left some doubt as to whether 
the entire quantity was the property of the plaintiffs or formed the 
accumulation of pickings partly belonging to them and partly to other 
mercantile and shipping importers at Galle. The District Judge (De 
Saram) held that he was satisfied the coal belonged to plaintiffs, as 
the bulk of it was North Country coal which plaintiffs had been land- 
ing within a month or so of the date of the Injunction ; and that, as 
thry had not abandoned, although they had lost, their property, they 
were entitled to judgment. 

In appeal, Dias, {Ferdinnnds with him) for appellants, argued at 
some length on the question of identity, laying particular stress 
on the following admission by one of the plaintiff's : " all the coal 
vixi/j/e (tliey were in heaps) with the exception of perhaps one or two 
lumps, were undoubtedly our's." Plaintiffs being declared entitled 
to the whole, was no reason to prevent t le P. a'ld O. Company or any 
other coal importers at Galle suing the 3rd defendant, over and over 
again, in respect of portions of the same (quantity and recovering a pro- 
portionate value, the same kind of presumption as to ownership being 
available to tliein as had been almitted in favor of plaintiffs. The 
Queen's Advocate, for respondent, was not called upon in reply. Per 
CmnsY, C.J. — " Affirmed. There is no pretence for thinking that the 
ownrr of eoals hjses his property in them by their accidental fall into 
the water; and by other persons picking them up and ta-ying to 
appropriate, them. Tlie only difficulty in the case lay in the identi- 
fication of the coal as i^hiintiffs' coal, but the Supreme Court thinks 
that, under liU the circumstances of the case, and according to 



DISTRICT COURTS. t* 

the maxim that omnia contra spoliatorem prmsumuntur, there is 
sufficient evidence to sustain the verdict." 



FiB. 4. 



D. C. Colombo, 61207. Philipoe Rodrigo Pedroepiille and his wife Construction 
Maria Johanna, by a Joint Will, dated 24th August, 1839, which vpas of a Will, 
duly proved and admitted to probate in December 1839, in D. C. 
Colombo, 27979, among other things, provided : — 

(8.) — " They further declared to bequeath to their aforesaid son 
Pedro Francisco RodrigopuUe, the Bankshall situated at Bankshall 
Street." 

(9.) — " To their aforesaid son Andre RodrigopuUe, the large house 
at Sea Street." 

(10.) — To their aforesaid son Soose RodrigopuUe, the house at Sea 
Street adjoining the one above stated." 

(11.) — " To the aforesaid Andre RodrigopuUe the two in one an- 
nexed houses in which the Testator and Testatrix reside, and situa- 
ted at Checkoe Street, with this express condition that the said lands 
shall not be liable to be sold, mortgaged or otherwise alienated by 
their said sons, but that the survivor shall enjoy the profits arising 
from the said lands during his or her life, defraying therefrom the 
expenses for the repairs of the said premises and for the maintenance 
of the three children : and that after his or her death, the said pre- 
mises shall be taken possession of by their children respectively and 
after them by their descendants." 

The husband died in November 1 839, and the present defendant 
purchased in 1854 the two houses described in clauses 9 and 10 from 
Soose and the representative of Andre who had previously died 
unmarried and intestate ; the widow, as executrix under the Will, 
joining iji both conveyances. It was admitted at the trial that Maria 
Rodrigo, on whose behalf as the sole surviving heir of Andre and 
Soose the plaintiff, as guardian, sued, was the sole daughter of Soose ; 
and that defendant had remained in uninterrupted possession of the 
houses since the date of his purchase. The point in the case was, 
whether the Fidei Commissum created in the 1 1 th clause was intend- 
ed to apply only to the premises specially devised therein or also to 
those devised by the 9th and 10th clauses. The Court below, in an 
able judgment, held " that, although at first glance the entail would 
appear to be attached only to the property specially mentioned in 
the 11th clause, this was not the intention of the 'will, and that it 
was intended to entail all the landed property.'' Judgment was ac- 
cordingly entered for plaintiff for the two houses in question with 
costs of suit, and an order was made that defendant should file an 
account of the rents and piofits received by him since the date of his 
purchase. 

In appeal, Kelly for appellant. — The decree directs an account of 
the rents and profits to be furnished by the defendant from the date of 
the purchase, 18 yearsago. But under any view of the case, the infant 



Feb. 4. 



10 PART ITI. 

plain tift's title could not commence in possession before the deatk of the 
siirvivinfr testatrix, which was only two years ago. The testatrix joined 
in both sales to the defendant: her interest, therefore, as tenant for life' 
was bound, and the account should only be directed from her death, 
Assumino; the fldei commissum to cover the property in dispute, 
the language used is that (after the death of the surviving testator) 
" the said premises shall be taken possession of by their aforesaid 
children respectively, and after them by their descendants." There 
is no joint gifl to the three sons and their descendants, nothing that 
would entitle the survivors and survivor of the three sons to the en- 
joyment of a deceased brother's share. The word respectively means 
the first described property to the son mentioned in connection with 
it and his descendants after him, the secondly described property to 
the second son and his descendants, and so forth. In other words, 
three separate entails. A contrary construction would lead to absurd 
results. Suppose ihat after the death of 1 he two testators, one son, 
Andre, died without descendants, leaving him surviving another son 
Pedro, who had no descendants living, and the third son Soose 
having one child living. What would become of Andre's property? 
There are no words to give Pedru or Soose any jnterest in it. Is 
it then to shift over to the chi Id of Soose at once, although Soose's 
own share would not come to that child till Soose's death ? Again, 
suppose that Pedro died leaving one child, Andre died leaving two 
children, and Soose died leaving three children. Was Pedro's child lo 
take his fathei''s property or one sixth of the joint properties ? Surely 
<he proper construction must be, that the children respectively are to 
take what their parents took before them. In short, the word respec- 
tively governs the whole clause, and there are three separate gifts. 
So that, when Andre died without descendants (for a neice is not the 
descendant of her uncle) the property given to him fell into the 
general residue, and passed by the residuary devise to the widow, 
who joined in the conveyance to the defendant. Hence, even if the 
fidei commissum be not restricted, the defendant has » good title to 
Andre's property. A Joint Will is an inaccurate though convenient 
expression. A Will cannot take effect as a Will during the lifetime 
of the testator. He may no doubt make a Will and contract not to 
revoke it. But in sound legal principle, the so-called Joint Will is in 
effect two separate Wills. The Will of the (estator who dies first 
takes effect as his Will from the time of his death. When that hap- 
pens, the other testator who survives is put to his election, either to 
abide by the dispositions contained in the Will of the deceased 
and accept the benefits conferred on him by it, or to reject it 
altogether. If he accepts, he impliedly agrees to abide by the 
dispositions of property contained in the Will of the 1st. testator- 
In other words, hn contracts mot to revoke his own Will, which is the 
same document. But a Will, coupled with a contract not to revoke 



msTKICT COURTS. 



11 



Fkb. 



it, cannot transfer property during the testator's life. It can 
operate during such period as a contract only, not as a conveyance. 
Hence the breach of it muf^t give rise to an action for damages against 
the 3nd testator or his estate, not a remedy by ejectment against 
an iunocent purchaser who has paid his money. It is a right in 
personam not a right in rem. Consequently, supposing the fidei com- 
mismm to cover all the property, still the defendant has a right 
to retain the widow's half, and the plaintifl's right must be limited to 
the 1st testator's half of the property given to Soose, leaving her 
remedy as to the widow's half against the property of the widow. 
But the fidei commissum is limited to the llth clause, and does 
not extend to the gifts contained in the 8th, 9th and 1 0th clauses ; 
because these entails are burdens which are not to be imposed 
on property unless most dearly intended. Surge's Foreign and Col. 
Law, vol. II, p. 92. It must be presiuned that the Notary knew what he 
was about. The arrangement of chiuses is part of the Will, and in 
form he has confined the Jidei commis.mm to the property comprised 
in the 1 1 th clause. It is customary to entail the residential property, 
and reasonable also to preserve the family associations connected with 
it, without tying up the other property for four generations. 

Dias, for the respondent, was heard only as to whether the Jidei 
commissum created by the llth clause of the Will did not apply to 
the three previous clauses. He submitted thiit all the four clauses 
should be read as one clause, as that was the manifest intention of 
the testators. [The words '■ they further declared to bequeath " oc- 
cur only in the 8th clause, and are not repeated in the 9th, 10th, and 
llth clauses, which only designate the pei'sons to take and the thing 
tobetaken.— C. J.] Inalltheother devising clauses the words were re- 
peated, clearly showing that those clauses were intended to be complete in 
themselves, without being qualified by anything which went before or 
after them. If the Notary correctly understood his work, he would 
have dealt with the four clauses as one ; but the intention of the 
testators being clear, the Court was bound so to construe the Will as 
to give efieot to that intention. In support of the argument of in- 
tention, he would refer to the 1 1th clause of the Will which gave the 
survivor the rents and profits of the lands for a life interest, and re- 
quired him to repair the premises and maintain the children who were 
to take possession after the death of the survivor. According to the 
appellant's construction of the llth clailse, the survivor's life interest 
would only apply to the property bequeathed by that clause, and 
the repairs and maintenance of the children would also fall on that 
property ; but there was no reason why the devisees under the 8th, 
9th and 10 clauses should be supported from the rents of the proper- 
ty devised by the llth clause, any more than the survivor's life inter- 
est should be confined to it. The concluding words of the llth clause, 
which directed that " the said premises shall be taken possession of 



FuB. 1 I 



} 



12 PART in. — 

by theii' cliilrlren," would, according to the appellant's contention, be 
meaningless. The words "premises" and " children " clearly meant 
the severrti properties devised by all the four clauses, and the 
devisees referred to in those clause^. There was abundant evi- 
dence to be gathered from other parts of the Will as to the intention 
of the testators, who seemed to have determined to put all their real 
property under the bond aifidei commissum. The only other devise 
in the Will, thnu'fh it was in favor of a sti'anger, was also subjected 
to the same restriction. 

Per Cheasy, C. J. — " Affirmed. The so-called 1 1th clause is mean- 
ingless, nnless the Supr erne Court goes b.ick to the beginning of the 
so-called 8th clause to get the verb that gives it meaning. The word 
' be(iueath ' in the 8th clause governs all the subsequent portion to 
the end of the subject matter of the so-called lUh clause. They 
must be all reail together as really one clause, and then the words of 
limitation at the end must be taken to affect all the properties.. The 
calculation of profits must be taken only from the date of the widow's 
deaih." 



February 1 1 . 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
rnffee D. C. Colombo, 60744. The Libel was to the eilect that the de- 

contract, fendant, on the 1 1th of October, 1871, contracted to sell to plaintifls 
3HO0 bushels of Wallarambe Estate first parchment cofiee, accord- 
ing to sample, at the rate of Rs. 6-25 per bushel, and to deliver the 
full quantity in good ma rfcetable condition at the stores of the plain- 
tiffs, on or before the 31st of December ; that the defendant delivered 
only 838J bushels, and failed to supply the balance 2161^ bushels to 
plaintiffs' damage of Rs 810.46. The defendant, in his Answer, 
alleged ' that he agreed to sell to the plaintiffs .SOOO bushels of Wal- 
larambe parchment coffee, which was then considered by both parties 
as the probable crop of the said estate for the said season ; that the 
whole crop of the said season, however, did not exceed 1300 bush- 
els, which he tendered to the plaintiffs who only accepted 838f bush- 
els and rejected the rest on the ground that it was not agreeable to 
sample ; and that, und'r the circumstances above stated, he was not 
liable in damages.' The Replication stated ' that the agreement was 
that the defendant should sell and plaintiff's purchase a defined quan- 
tity of coffee, irrespective of the out-turn of any particular crop ; 
that the plaintiffs deny that the crop was estimated at 3000 bushels 
or that it did not exceed 1300 bushels, or that the defendants tender- 
ed more than 838^ bushels in terms of his contract.' On these plead- 
ings, the case came on for trial ; and the learned District Judge 
{Berwich) delivered the following judgment. 



DISTRICT COURTS. 13 'pi.jj. 11. 

" This is an action for non-fulfilment of a conti-act, the 
only clear and undisputed ttrnis of which are those in' the 
Libel, viz : ' to sell to the plaintiff 3,000 bushels of Wallarambe 
Estate first parchment coffee, according to sample, at the rate of 
12s. 6d. per bushel.' At the time the contract was made in 
October 1871, no human being could tell whether the then grow- 
in" crop of that estate would yield either that quantity or that qua- 
lity of coffee. The crop was still on the trees and immature, subject 
to all the vicissitudes which actually resulted (according to the evi- 
dence) in the coffee crops of that year throughout the country being . 
'generally short.' That the parties had in contemplation the then 
growing crop of that estate only, is evident from the terms ot document 
B, and the date fixed for delivery, viz: ' ,3 1 st Decemlier next.' The 
Udurt finds that there is no evidence, and no reason to believe, that 
the out-turn of that crop exceeded 1,300 bushels, nor that there were 
miire than 838J bushels equal to the so-called sample ; and clearly the 
defendant cannot be compelled to sell that which never has had, and 
never can have, any existence. Then, can he be compelled to pay dam- 
ages when none have been expressly agreed upon, for not carrying out 
his contract to sell, when the article contracted to be sold is proved not 
to have been in existence, though in posse, at the time of the contract, 
and to have been impossible of being subsequently brought into ex- 
istence ? The answer to this question (supposing that the engage- 
ment of the defendant reasonably construed was clearly to sell full 
3,000 bushels of Wallarambe coffee, and not merely so much as> 
Wallarambe should produce up to that quantity) might depend on 
whether the contracting purchaser was in any degree misled by the 
contracting seller making any erroneous representation, either wilfully 
or innocently, that the article to that quantity was already in existence, 
or could and would be certainly produced. If there were an erroneous 
statement, andif nevertheless the former was not and could not by any 
possibility be deceived about it, and if there was no intention to de- 
ceive, and both parties knew perfectly well that the production of the 
article to the certain quantity and of the certain quality contracted 
to be sold, the growth of a particular estate only, depended entirely 
on the chance of the weather maturing it during the succeeding two 
months, and was entirely beyond allhimian control, it is difficult to fix 
on any principle upon which the contracting purchaser could be said 
to suffer, or to be entitled to damages for non- delivery of what he 
himself knew not to be in eitistence as " 3,000 bushels of first parch- 
ment coffee " at the time of the agreement, and knew there were only 
certain chances of being in existence as such at the time of maturity 
— chances he knew to be entirely beyond the seller's good faith or 
power of control. Such a claim would stand on quite a different 
footing fi'om a claim founded on an express bond by the contracting 
seller to pay a certain fixed sum as liquidated damages for any short- 



Fejj. 11. 



14 PART III. 

coming in the quantity or quality of the article he undertook to sup- 
ply, which uncertain circumstances in the contemplation of both par- 
ties might make it impossible for him to produce, manufacture, or pur- 
chase:— the express agreement to pay such damages shewing that the 
contract was expressly based on the possible contingency of its principal 
execution becoming difficult or impossible, and that they were to be 
paid notwithstanding. It is of importance, then, to determine whether 
the plaintift was in any respect misled by the defendant, either acci- 
dentally or designedly, before deciding whether a claim for damages 
which have not been previously stipulated for can be maintained. 
And it is necessary to determine, whether it was within the intention 
of the contract that the contracting seller should pay damages if the 
Wallarambe Estate should fail to produce 3,000 bushels of a certain 
quality and whether the Estate did produce more of that quality than 
was tendered, and the defendant, therefore, broke his promise to the 
plaintifis. The Court holds that there is no reason to suppose that 
the defendant has, in any respect, acted otherwise than with good faith, 
It has been already iound that the crop produced only 1,300 bushels, 
and only 838f up to sample. It has not been suggested that he sold 
any of the out-turn at a better price to any body else than plaintifis, 
to do which would be the only advantage he could possibly get by not 
letting the plaintifis have it, if it really was produced ; and it has not 
been suggested that he deceived them by a wilfally exaggerated esti- 
mate of the probable produce of the Estate. Neither the plaintifis 
nor any one on their behalf took the trouble to test the reasonable- 
ness of his estimate by inspection, and the defendant himself had no 
interest whatever to over-estimate it, for he was to get no advances 
on it from the plaintifis, and only got the value of his oofiee at the 
agreed on price, from time to time, as he delivered it. It cannot be 
said that the defendant's estimate in October was a bad or exagge- 
rated estimate, for there is no evidence that the crop which would 
represent that estimate was not on the trees at the time he made it. 
Nor does the Court think that there was any representation in fact 
that the Estate would produce ' 3,000 bushels first parchment coffee.' 
Of course if a man tmdertakes to sell the two chestnut horses now in 
such and such a stable, he virtually represents that such horses are 
in such a stable ; but the case of a future crop, the quality and quan- 
tity of which are necessarily undetermined, is ot quite a different na- 
ture, and the purchaser of the crop knows as well as the seller, 
that the quality and quantity are really indeterminate. The 
Ciiurt, therefore, cannot look on it as a statement of fact, or in 
any other hght than a statement of estimate, and no doubt it 
was so intended on both sides. If there wqs no representation still 
U'ss wa.s there a gnarantce. The (iiicstion principally argued was, ' 
wlicilicr it was the intention of llio parties that the contracting seller 



DISTRICT COURTS. 15 

should guarantee 3,000 bushels of a certain qiiahty tci be yielded by 
the Wallarambe Estate: and the del ence particularly relied on was, 
that the quantity of three thousand bushels was not intended to ba 
guaranteed, but only mentioned as the then probable yield of tlie 
estate, and that the so-called sample was only shewn as an example of 
the ordinary production of the estate. There is nothing whatever in 
the evidence, either documentary or oral, opposed to this view ; and to 
take any other would be to presume that both parties were silly en- 
ough to depend, not speculatively, but as a matter of certainty, on 
circumstances utterly beyond human control. If there was any con- 
sideration to the defendant for such a rash guarantee, it must be found 
in the supposition that the price per bushel (I2s. 6d.) was considered 
high, and so high as to be tvorth the risk of the guarantee ; but this 
involves the idea that the plaintiiis had run some reciprocal risk in 
agreeing to pay so high a price, and some corresponding speculation 
founded on the October estimate, without the common precaution of 
satisfying themselves of the reasonableness of that estimate. Before, 
therefore, the plaintiff's case can be adopted, we must either presume 
an unreasonable contract, in which the defendant for no additional 
consideration or advantage whatever — that is to say for no higher 
price per bushel than he could have got elsewhere without it, — gave 
a wild promise and unreciprocal claim to the plaintiffs ; or that they 
incurred some corresponding risk, or chance of disadvantage, of which 
not a hint has transpired, and this on the mere faith of the defen- 
dant's unchecked estimate. Surely neither of these is very probable. In 
the absence, then, of the plainest proof that the meaning of parties was 
that the defendant should covenant for what he could not possibly fore- 
tell or influence, namely that the Wallarambe estate should produce 
3,000 bushels of a certain quality (for it is perfectly clear that he was 
not to deliver nor the plaintifis bound to accept any other than Wal- 
larambe Estate coffee) the only reasoniible conclusion is that there 
was no such intention. Such a covenant would have provided in ex- 
press terms that if the estate failed to produce a certain (juantity and 
quality of coffee that season, defendant would pay the plaintiff a cer- 
tain sum of money calculated according to the deficiency, or other- 
wise, as the parties chose to determine. There was nothing of this 
kind, and in its absence the Court cannot presume such an unreason- 
able, unlikely, and one-sided, not to say gratuitously foolish, contract 
as plaintiffs contend for to have been really in the intention of the 
parties, The defendant has fulfilled the terms of the contract so far 
as these are proved, both to the extent of his ability and to the extent 
of its intention. Plaintiffs will be nonsuited with costs." 

"One will consult with advantage in a ca.se of this kind Pothier's 
Traite de Contrat de Vente, Premiere Partie, Art iv. — T. B." 

In appeal, Dias, for the respondent, on being called upon to support 
the judgment, contended that the contract in question should be so 
constnaed us to give effect to the intention of the parties. Thedefen- 



j Feb. 1 1 . 



I'^EB. 11. 



16 PART HI.— 

dant was the proprietor of a coffee estate called Wallarambe, He 
entered into the contruet with respect to the coffee of that estate 
and of no other. To deliver the cofiee of any other estate would be 
a breach of the contract. It was true that a certain quantity was 
stipulated for by him, but it could not be supposed that he stipulated 
for anything beyond that which the estate would yield. The plain- 
tifis must be taken to have known that crops often fell short of the 
estimate. They were large dealers in coffee, and if they wished that 
defendant should pay damages for any deficiency the contract should 
have been so worded. It was not even suggested in this case, that 
the defendant had misappropriated the crop of the season in ques- 
tion. The limitation as to the time of delivery clearly shewed that 
the crop of a particular season was the subject matter of the contract ; 
and the District Judge, both legally and equitably, found that the 
defendant, having actid bona fide, was not bound to do an impossi- 
bility, viz., deliver coffee which his estate had not yielded. 

Ferdinands, for appellant, was not heard. 

Per Creasy, C. J. — " Set aside and judgment to be entered for plain- 
tiffs for Rs, 810-46 and costs. We do not differ from the learned District 
J udge as to his opinion of the legal consequences of such a contract 
as he considers to have existed between the plaintiff and the defen- 
dant. But we differ from him as to the nature of the contract. He 
considers the contract to have applied to the crop growing on 
the Wallarambe Estate at the date of the contract and to that grow- 
ing crop only. If that were so, the defendant would certainly not be 
liable for short delivery caused by the failure to a great extent of the 
crop, in consequence of an unusual rainfall, between the date of the 
contract and the time for picking the crop. This would come within 
the principle of the case put by Pothier. (Puthier on Contracts, vol. i, p. 
76, Evans' translation, of which we cite so much as applies to the case.) 
' If I should oblige myself to deliver to a -n-ine merchant all the 
wine that 1 shall grow the en&uiug year, but ray wines are frozen so 
that no wine can be got from them, the obligation fails for want of an 
object.' The maxim actus Dei nemini fadt injitriam would apply, 
according to which it was held in i. Report 97 that where a lessee 
covenants lo have a wood in as good plight as the wood was in at the 
time of making the lease, and afterwards tlie trees are blown down 
by tempi St, he is discharged from his covenant. 'Where the cove- 
nant is limited to a particular growing crop, if the purchaser desii-es 
the vendor to be responsible for non-delivery of ;i specified number 
of bushels, he should require a covenant like that of the old Roman 
Law. Venditorem prastiturum si quid ui vel tempestate factum esset. 
See Voet ad Pimdectas, xviii, tit. i, ,13. But we must examine care- 
fully the real contract between the parties in the present case. It is 
to be found in the written document dated Uth December, 1871, 
made and signed by Mr. John, acting for the defendant. This note 



DISTRICT COURTS. 17 f ,, 

l- Kli. 1 1. 



■when first tendered in evidence was rejected, for want of proof of 
Mr. John's authority from defendant ; but subsequently, on proof be- 
ing given that thf defendant adopted and acted on it, it became good 
evidence against him, and it is rightly treated as evidence in the 
judgment of the DiHtriot Court. That note is as follows: — 
Contract No. 4,110, 

Colombo, October 11, 1871. 
Messrs. Mackwoods and Co., Colombo. 

Dear Sirs, — I bei; to confirm sale to you for account O. L. Marikar 
anil — tie Silva, Esquires, of 30uO (three thousanrlj bushels Wallaramdk 
Estate first Parchment Cnffee, at 12s 6cl, Ctwelve shillings and six pence) 
per bushel, as per sample handed to you. For delivery, in good merchan- 
table condition, at your Storesj by 31st December next. 

Yours faithfully, 

(Signed) G. John.' 

"That memorandum certainly says nothing about the coffee contract- 
ed for being the coffee then growing on the Wallarambe Estate. If 
the defendant (or those acting for him) meant so to limit his obliga- 
tion, it would have been very easy to insert word.s to that effect. But 
that has not been done, and ' contra eum, qui legem dicere potuit, 
apertius est facienda interpretation The learned District Judge 
thinks that the restriction to the then growing crop is proved by the 
time fixed for deHvery, i. e., 31st December 1871, and by the parol 
proof that the period between the 'date of the contract and the last 
mentioned date, is the period during which the then growing crop 
would, in the natural coui-se of things, have ripened, and would have 
been gathered. We cannot agree with this. Defendant may very 
naturally have expected to fulfil his contract, mainly or entirely, by 
means of the then growing crop ; but the' question is not what he 
expected or hoped for, but ' what must his words have naturally led 
the other party to expect ?' It seems clear to us that the natural 
effect of his words must have been to create an expectation of a deli- 
very of the specified quantity of Wallarambe coffee, without such 
delivery being dependent ou the yield of the trees during the then 
current season. The stipulations as to the quality of the coffee, do 
not touch the point in issue. The contract would have been fulfilled 
by the delivery of the specified amount of Wallarambe coffee of the 
specified quality, whether that coffee, or any portion of it, was or 
was not part of the crop of a preceding year. Not only has the de- 
fendant failed to shew the impossibility of obtaining and supplying 
such Wallarambe coffee (as to the effect of which proof, if given, it is 
not necessary for us here to pronounce an opinion,) but there is evi- 
dence which leads to the belief that Wallarambe coffee was an article 
known in the market and procurable in the market, independently of 
the yield of that particular year. We allude to the defendant's an- 
swer to a question by the Court, in which he says ' there was no more 



\ 



11 



18 PART III. 

Wallarambe coftee on the Estate when I wrote that letter (i. e the 
letter of iBth December, 1871,) neither in the store nor on the trees, 
but .there may have been either in Kandy or in Colombo.' And in 
another answer to the Court, he says — 'when* the agreement was 
made, I did shew a .sample to the plaintiffs, but it was only shewn as a 
snmple of tlie ordinary production of the Estate.' It is exactly out 
of this, out of the ordinary production of the Estate, that the plain- 
tiffs had a right to look for their supply, and not out of the yield of 
one crop only. It is no answer in such a case to suggest, or even to 
prove, that the article which the vendee demands w.js in the domini- 
on of a third person. Grotius, book iii, c. i, sect, xxxix, points out , 
the law that ' an obligation can arise from all matters and acts, and 
extends even over things of which the dominion is vested in a third 
person, because these things are attainable." Pothier, vol. I, p. 78, is 
still more explicit. ' Even things which do not belong to the debtor but 
to another person may be the object of an obligation, as he is thereby 
obliged to purchase or otherwise procure them, in order to fulfill his 
engagement ; and if the real owner will not part with them, the. debtor 
cannot insist that he is discharged from his obligation under pretext 
that no man can be obliged to perform an impossibility. For this 
excuse is only valid in case of an ?-bsolirte impossibility : but where 
the thing is possible in itself, the obligation subsists notwithstanding 
that it is beyond the ipeans of the person obliged tn accomplish it ; 
and he is answerable for the damage occasioned by the non-perform- 
aiiee of his engagement. The thing being possible in its nature, is 
sufficient lo induce the creditor to rely upon the performance of 
the promise. The fault is imputable to the debtor, for not having 
duly examined whether it was in his power to accomplish what he 
promised or not.' " 



Arl.itrafion. /), C. Colombo, 54428. This case, which involved a question of 
title to several lands, "iiad been referi-ed, by an order of Court dated 
4th September, 1871, to the' final arbitration of Abraham de Ahvis 
Jlohandram. On plaintiff's proctor filing the award and moving that 
judgment be entered up in terms thereof, the defendant's proctor 
applied that the arbitrator be noticed to file the notes of evidence 
y taken by him, preparatory to cause being shewn against the 
motion. The application was rejected in the following terms : " It is 
not shewn nor suggested that the arbitrator has done anything wrong, 
and the object of the defendant is evidently to fish for something 
wrong. The Court cannot encourage such fisheries.'' The award 
was thereupon adopted and made a rule of Court." In app eal, the 
Queen's Advocate, for appellant, contended that the arbitrator was 
bound, under the provisions of the 23rd clause of Ordinance 15 of 
1866, to send in with his award all the ' proceedings, depositions and 
exhibits ' which had come into his possession. I'he application of 



DISTRICT COURTS. 19 

the appellant had, therefore, been reasonable and should have been 
granted. The judgment of the Court below was, however, afBrmed ; 
the Chief Justice remarking that, in the absence of any suggestion as 
to fraud or misrepresentation on the part of the arbitrator, such as 
might prejudice the defendants, the appeal should be regarded as 
frivolous and vexatious. 



April 2 



D. C. Galle, 32341. This was an appeal on an interlocutory or- Priority of 
der having reference to a question of priority between two cla,imants 
to the proceeds of an execution sale. Verappa Chetty, the appellant, 
claimed on a special mortgage bond of the 4th August 1871, on which 
he obtained judgment on the 6th June, 1 872 ; and Bell, the other 
claimant, held a judgment of 16th February, 1872, on a promissory, 
note dated 20th November, 1871. The bond was impugned as fraudu- 
lent and void for want of consideration ; and the Judge, (GillmaTi) 
having gone into evidence adduced in support of the document, held 
Verappa Chetty's claim good only to a limited extent and cast him 
in costs. In appeal, ( Queer^s Advocate for appellant, Kelly for i-espond- 
ent) the order was set aside ; and per Stewart, J. — "Having re- 
gard to the nature of the contest between the two claimants, as to 
whether the mortgage bond in favor of the appellant was given 
fraudulently and without consideration, it appears to us that the ques- 
tion should not have been summarily disposed of. The party im- 
peaching the bond should be referred to his action, reasonable time 
being given for instituting proceedings. Costs to stand over.'' 

March 19. 
Present Creast, C. J. 
D. C. Kalutara, 7952. The defendants had been convicted by the Conflicting 
District Judge (Jayetileke) on a charge of Riot and Assault. In ap- evidence, 
peal, (Kelly for appellants) the conviction and sentence were affirmed 
m the following terms : " This is a case of conflicting evidence which 
has been plainly investigated and adjudicated on with care and atten- 
tion by a District Judge of much experience and ability." 

April 2. 
Present Creasy, C. J. 
D. C. Kegalla, 150. This was an appeal against the acquittal by p 
the District Judge (Mainwaring) of two defendants who were charg- transferred" 
ed with cattle stealing. Per Creasy, C. J.—" Set aside and case sent 
back for a new trial. Three witnesses for the prosecution, who 
have not been in any way contradicted, prove that the prisoners, near 
about the time when the loss of the animal was discovered, were seen 
driving it away. They said that they had purchased it. No proof 



May 2 



20 PART in.— 

of that assertion has been produced. The District Judge appears to 
hare acquitted these prisoners on a suggestion by their Proctor, that 
the charge had been got up at the instigation of the 1st witness. To 
give effect to suggestions of this kind, made by the Proctors of the 
accused persons, without any support from the evidence, would be 
to ofifer impunity to criminals. On the application of the Deputy 
Queen's Advocate, (who certified that there wa.s reasonable ground of 
appeal) this prosecution is transferred to the District Court of Kiiru- 
negala.'' 



April 22. 
Present Cbeast, C. J. 
Opinion of D. C. Batticaha, 16\5. The District .Judge (Worthingtan) had 
Assessors convicted all three defendants on a criminal charge, although the 
upheld m Assessors associated with him at the trial had declared it to be their 
opinion that the evidence was not conclusive against the 3rd accused. 
In appeal, the judgment was affirmed as to the 1st and 2nd defendants 
and set aside as to the 3rd; and per Obeast, C. J. — "I have read all 
these papers, including the proceedings before the Justice of the 
Peace. I feel satisfied that there has been an enormous mass of lying 
and exaggeration on the part of the complainant and complainant's 
witnesses. I agree with the three Assessors in thinking the ciroum- 
stanoe very suspicious- that this defendant's name was not mentioned 
to the Vanyar. The District Judge says that the Vanyar was assist- 
ing the assaulting party. I cannot find proof of this. Undoubtedly 
it very often happens in this Island that criminal charges, with a solid 
substratum of truth, are overlaid by the accusers with a monstrous heap 
of lies : and it is the duty of Courts, if they can clearly find their way 
to such truth, to convict on it and not to reject lies and truth in the 
lump. But I cannot see clearly the truth of any part of the com- 
plainant's charge so far as regards this appellant, bearing in mind the 
very important fact that he is proved to be a man of good character. 
Under all the circumstances, I agree with the three Assessors in think- 
ing the case against him too doubtful for a conviction." 

May 2. 
Present Stewart, J. 
D. C. Batticaha, 17263. A witness in this case had been found 
° " ■ gnilty of Contempt for giving false evidence. In appeal, the convic- 
tion and sentence were set aside ; aiid per Stewart, J. — '" The con- 
tradictions between the appellant's evidence and the statements of 
the defendant are insufficient to establish that the testimony of the 
appellant was false. No other witness was examined : consequently 
there was no proof to negative the testimony of the appellant ; the 



DISTEICT CODKTS. 



"} 



June 3 



defendant having only been examined as a party and not aa a witness 
on oath. It ia not alleged-, nor does it appear, that the appellant 
prevaricated in giving evidence so as to render him liable to be pun- 
ished for Contempt. The Supreme Court would also point out that, 
even admitting the appellant's evidence to be untrue, the supposed 
falsity scarcely was of so flagi-ant and audacious a character as to call 
for summary proceedings. See judgment of the Supreme Court 
inC. R. Colombo, 43832, September 17, 1867. If the evidence be 
false, the proper course to follow is to prosecute in the usual way for 
Perjury." 



June 3. 



Present Creasy, O. J. and Stewaet, J. 
D. C. Batlicaloa, 17230. The libel set forth that the plaintifi had 
cultivated certain paddy fields at a large expense of labor and capital, 
had raised a crop, and had thrashed and stored it ; that thereafter defend- 
ant had, as Administrator, removed the same by an order of , Court 
illegally obtained. The defendant demurred on the ground that 
plaintiff neither disclosed the nature of his right and title nor speci- 
fied the date of the alleged trespass. The Court ruled that the libel 
was " sufficient to shew plaintifi's claim as a cultivator only, and not as 
lord of the soil," and that the demurrer was unnecessary " in that ex- 
planation of the libel, if required, could have been equally well secured 
by a viva voce examination of the plaintiff." In appeal, {Grenier for 
respondent) the judgment was affirmed. 



D. C. Bafttcaloa, 17206. This was an action founded on the 
breach of a written agreement which recited that defendant, having 
undertaken to pay a balance debt due to plaintiffs by a third party on 
a writ of execution, acknowledged himself indebted to them in Rs. 450, 
for which sum he stipulated to deliver to the plaintiffs three elephants 
within three months. The defendant demurred to the libel, on the 
ground that the agreement sued upon disclosed no valid considera- 
tion. The Judge held that the document in question was nothing 
more than a mere promise to pay, for which no consideration was 
required to be set out, and rejected the demurrer. In appeal, (^Dias 
for appellant, Ferdinands for respondent) per Creasy, C. J, — " The 
Supreme Court thinks that the pleadings on the face of them import 
sufficient consideration." 



Demurrer, 



Demurrer. 



D. C. Galle, 124. A Marriage Registrar had applied to the Dis- Caveat against 
trietXJourt, udderthe 13th clause of Ordinance 13 of 1863, to adju- marriage, 
dicate on a caveat which had been entered against a proposed marriage, 
on the ground that the bridegroom had previously promised to marry 



June 10 



22 PART III. — 

opponent and had a child by her whom he refused to maintain. Tie 
Judge (Gillman) made the following order; " Nouo (the opponent) 
is referred to her action for the breach of promise and for specific per- 
formance. The libel to be filed within a week from this date. The 
proposed marriage not to be registered by the Registrar till decision 
of the said action." In appeal, Dias for appellant. — The breach of a 
promise to marry, though it might entitle the aggrieved party to dam- 
aijes, could be no bar to a subsequent marriage. The Ordinance spe- 
ciiied the different grounds of objection on which a certificate could be 
opposed, none of which, however, were set forth in the caveat. The 
learned Judge had clearly misapprehended the present state of the 
law on marriage contracts, the Roman Dutch law* as to suits compelling 
marriages having been specially repealed by Ordinance 6 of 1847. 
Per Stewart, J. — "Set aside, and it is ordered that the caveat be set 
aside and that the certificate required do issue. .Suits to compel 
marriages are expressly done away with by the 30th clause of Or- 
dinance 6 of 1847." 



June 10. 
Present Ureast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
Eights of a D- C. Kalutara, 24582. This was an action by a purchaser at & 
mortgagee. Fiscal's sale to have a subsequent seizure of the purchased property 
by a mortgagee set aside. The defendant pleaded that he was not 
bound by the previous sale, to which he had objected. The District 
Judge CJayetileke) held that the defendant (mortgagee) should have 
claimed the proceeds, and decreed that, if the defendant reimbursed 
to the plaintiff the purchase money and costs within six weeks, the 
property might be resold, otherwise that judgment would be enterei 
for plaintiff. In appeal, jDias for appellant. — The mortgagee objected 
to the sale and had a right to follow the mortgaged property 
Ferdinands for respondent. — Every creditor had a right to bring 
his debtor's property to a judicial sale ; and a mortgagee with notice 
would be bound by it, and only entitled to claim the proceeds. To 
hold otherwise would be to enable a fraudulent debtor to evade the 
sale of his property by mortgaging it to a friendly creditor. It was 

* Even under the operation of the Roman Dutch law, the Supreme 
Court (Sir H. Giffard and Sir R. Ottley) elected in the case of Dormiuit 
V. Kriekenbeek, which was decided in appeal on the 26th April, 1821, not 
to decree that the defendant, who was sued for breach of promise of mar- 
riage, should carry out his contract by a marriage celebrated in fore ecde- 
sia on or before a fixed date under the penalty of imprisonment for disobe- 
dience, but to award damages to the plaintiff, to the extent of one thou- 
sand Rixdollars, with a stay of execution until the 1st of July foll6winf, 
before which time the defendant was allowed to fulfil his contract, if *> 
disposed. Vide Appeal Minutes, vol. for 1820-21. 



DISTRICT COURTS. ■ 23 1 

the mortgagee's duty to have stopped the proceeds before they passed 
oyer to the judgment creditor, and not having done so he was not 
entitled to the equitable relief he claimed. Per Creasy, C. J. — 
" Set aside and judgment entered for 1st defendant, and the land in 
question declared liable to be sold in satisfaction of 1st defendant's 
writ in case No. 23713, PlaiutiS to pay 1st defendant's costs. It 
is not denied that 1 st defendant is the bona fide assignee ot a valid 
special mortgage of the land in question. To deprive him, therefore, 
of his preferent right, it was incumbent on the plaintift to prove 
either direct fraud against the 1st defendant, or that he acted in 
such a manner as to make his ponduct amount to what is termed 
constructive fraud. It appears to us that the evidence altogether 
fails to establish fraud, either direct or constructive. The Ist defend- 
ant was not present at the sale in execution on the 26th May, 1869, 
nor is there any evidence to show that the 2nd defendant was author- 
ized to act as the agent of the 1st defendant. But even supposing 
that the 2nd defendant was acting as agent, he in no way acquiesced 
in the sale, but only gave notice uf the mortgage, and as he says, ' I 
opposed the sale.' Moreover, as remarked by the District judge, 
< the plaintift cannot be said to be a purchaser without notice, for he 
distinctly admits that he heard the 2nd defendant tell the Fiscal's 
officer that he had a mortgage over the property, and that he had 
assigned it to the 1st defendant.' The District Judge seems to 
think that the 1st defendant should have claimed the proceeds of the 
sale. But he was not bound to do so, the sale having taken place 
without his sanction, and the amount realised being less than what 
was due on his mortgage. Neither does it appear that the 1st 
defendant was in any way remiss : he proves that, a day after he 
hea'-d of the sale, he went to the Deputy Fiscal with a letter from 
Lis Proctor and asked the Deputy Fiscal not to grant plaintift a con- 
veyance as he held a special mortgage of the land." 



Jdne 10. 



D. C. Kandy, 56860. Plaintift claimed a field under a lease from Registration, 
3rd defendant, who had been declared entitled to a life interest in it 
in an action against 2nd defendant, the heir at law of her deceased 
husband. The first defendant (appellant) claimed under a purchase 
from 2nd defendant which was registered, contending that he was 
entitled to preference over the unregistered judgment of 3rd defend- 
ant. The District Judge (Morgan) held that the registration gave 
no preferential right. Dias for appellant. — The 1st defendant's 
purchase was from the admitted heir-at-law, and the previous 
judgment not having been registered, the 1st defendant had a pre- 
ferent right under the 39th clause of the Ordinance No. 8 of 1863. 
i^'erdmanrf* for respondent. — Prior registration would avail if parties 
claimed under one and the same proprietor, but the appellant did 
not claim from the life renter. Per Cheasy, C.J. — "Affirmed." 



June 10. | ^"^ p*kt hi.— • 

Costs. B. C Kandy. 56814. In this case judgment was entered for plain- 

tiff (appellant) in £3- 1« as mesne profits, but he was made to pay 
defendant's costs on the ground that he might have sued in the Court 
of Requests or recovered the amount in the previous action for the 
land. Ferdinands ior appellant. — The defendant denied that any 
damages were due, and put plaintiff to the expense of proving it 
Plaintiff was therefore entitled to his costs. At all events, he should 
not have been made to pay defendant's costs. Per Stewaet J.— 
" Affirmed, but modified as to costs. Each party will bear his own 
costs. According to the evidence of the last witness, the defendant 
prevented the plaintiff's getting possession of the garden. Besides, 
the plaintiff now recovers damages subsequent to the adjudication in 
'!so. 50434." 



Copy decret. D. C. Matara, 26128. This was an action to recover a land which 
the plaintiff had got judgment for against the defendant in a previous 
suit the record of which was lost. The plaintiff now proceeded on a 
copy decree, which did not, however, set out the boundaries of the 
land in question. The District Judge ( Templer) considered the decree 
too indefinite in the absence of the libel and non-suited the plaimifi. 
In appeal, Ferdinands for appellant. — The defendant in his examina- 
tion supplied the boundaries, and in a connected District Court criminal 
case 22671, there was a writ of possession filed, which had evidently 
been overlooked in the Court below, setting out the boundaries as 
given in the lost case. Per Stbwabt J. — "Set aside and the case 
remanded for further hearing and consideration. Attention does not 
seem to have been directed to the writ of possession in case No. 
22671. Appellant to pay costs of appeal." 

Partition. D- C. ilfatera, 26496. This action arose out of a previous parti- 

tion suit between the parties. The libel stated that the land then in 
disp^ite had been sold, under an order of Court, and purchased by 
plaintiff (appellant) who now sued the defendant for an encroach- 
ment. The defendant denied the sale of the alleged encroachment 
The District Judge {Templer) held that the "features" of the disputed 
portion were against the appellant's contention that it was part of 
the land purchased by him, and that Commissioner Kemp's evi- 
dence was too indefinite as to what he had sold. Plaintiff's case was 
therefore dismissed with costs. Bias for appellant.— The evidence 
showed that the Commissioner sold all that he had preifiously appraised, 
which included the disputed portion; and, by the 9th clause of 
Ordinance 10 of 1863, the respondent was estopped from claiming 
the land thus sold. [But the respondent disputed all along the right 
to appraise or sell the disputed portion under the partition decree. 
Stbwabt J.] Ferdinands, for respondent, was not called upon. 
Per Stew.\rt J.— "Affirmed." 



DISTRICT COURTS. 25 1 j ^. 

D. C. Kandy, 56750. The question in this case was the right of Rights of a 
a childless widow to claim both life interest and maintenance from Kandyan 



the acquired and parveni property, respectively, of her deceased 
husband. The District Judge (Morgan) put the widow to her election, 
on the ground that she could not claim both. In appeal, there was 
no appearance for appellant. Ferdinands, for respondent. — The 
District Judge's ruling was supported by a clear authority from 
Armour, p. 18, that the widow could not claim both maintenance 
and life interest, and there was no appellate decision that he knew to 
the contrary. The point was a new one, but Armour was a safe 
authority on such questions. Per Ceeast, C. J. — " Affirmed. The 
defendant has not thought fit to appear to support her appeal. On 
hearing the Counsel for respondent and on examination of the case, 
it seems to us that the District Judge did right in following the 
authority of Armour. The Ratnapura case reported in Legal Mis- 
cellany, decisions of 1866, p. 33, differs in its facts from the present 



widow. 



June 11. 
Present Ceeast, C. J. and Stewakt, J. 
D. C. Kandy, 56528. In this case the District Judge {Morgan) Service 
awarded the plaintiff, as incumbent of the Malwatte Viharre, damages f? j""'^ ' 
for three years against defendant, a temple tenant who had failed 
to perform services. The defendant appealed, chiefly on the ground 
that under the provisions of the Service Tenure's Ordinance 4 of 1870, 
clause 24, he was only liable to be cast in the value of one yearls 
services, and was entitled to his costs. Ferdinands, for respondent, 
conceded that, under the Ordinance which had apparently been lost 
sight of in the Court below, the value of only one year's services 
could be claimed; but the action had been pending another year, so 
that the damages would have to 'be reduced only by 1 s. 3d. He 
maintained that the judgment was correct in other respects. Per 
Stewaet J. — " Amended by Judgment being reduced to Rs. 43 and 
50 cents. Under the 24th section of Ordinance No. 4 of 1870, plain- 
tifl cannot recover for arrears of service beyond a year. The judg- 
ment must therefore be amended accordingly, and will stand at the 
amount stated, viz. for one year before action brought, and for what 
has become subsequently due. As to costs, we see no sufficient 
reason to interfere with the judgment in this respect. Though the 
plaintifi was in error prajang for eviction of the defendant, yet he 
could not anticipate the defence the defendant might set up, involv- 
ing possibly the question of jurisdiction and title if he had pro . 
ceeded in the Court of Requests. The 76th clause of Ordinance 11 
of 1868, leaves it to the Judge to make such order as justice may 



Jdne 17 



j 26 PART III.— 

require in suits brought in the District Courts that may have been 
brought in the Court of Requests. In the present case we see no 
reason to difier from the District Judge." 



June 17. 
Present Okeast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

Deed of ^' ^' ^°^'''^^"' ^^^- '^'^^ appellant applied for administration 

Gift. (with the will annexed) of her father's estate, and was resisted by 
the widow (respondent) who questioned the validity of the will. The 
document produced was termed a " gantalpot," signed by the grantor 
before 5 witnesses ; and the disposition was in these terms ; " all 
these I have given to Punchy Menica, ' my begotten daughter by my 
deceased first wife Dingen Menica, to possess by her in parveny." 
Possession had been given with the document, and the grantor had 
survived eight months. The District Judge (Gibson) held that the 
document was a deed of gift and could not be admitted to probate, 
and granted administration to the widow. The Queen's Advocate for 
appellant. — The document was to all intents and purposes a will. 
The testator was on the point of death, and the paper was signed 
before five witnesses who proved that it was meant to operate as i 
will. Extrinsic evidence was admissible to prove the intention of the 
testator. Even Bills of Exchange had been admitted to probate, 
where the intention was cleai\ Jones v. Nicolay, 2 Ebb. 288 ; 14 
Jur. 675 [Is not the fact of your having possessed during the eight 
months of the donor's survivorship conclusive against you ?— C. J.] 
Ferdinands for respondent was not called upon. The judgment was 
affirmed. 



Government D. C. Badulla, 19003. In this case plaintiff having obtained 
defaulter, judgment against the defendant ( Vanderwall) on a mortgage bond 
dated November 1, 1870, for Rs. 860, seized and caused to be sold 
the mortgaged property, and was about to draw the proceeds when 
the Crown intervened and claimed them as a preferent creditor. The 
District Judge (Gibson) upheld the claim and hence the appeal. It 
appeared that the plaintifi had originally sold the mortgaged land to 
the defendant, received part of the purchase money and taken the 
bond in question for the balance. Both the bond and conveyance had 
been executed on the same day. The Crown claim was based on the 
4th clause of Ordinance 1 4 of 1 843, the defendant having been appointed 
a revenue officer in 1868 and continued as such to 1 87 1 , when the said 
claim accrued in respect of certain monies found to be due by him to 
Government. 

Dias, for appellant.— The bond and conveyance in favor of plaintin 
having been executed on the same day, there was not such an uncon- 



District coukt3» 27 \ 

ditional title in the defendant as to subject the property to tho hypothec 
of the Crown. As soon as the conveyance was executed, the plaintiff's 
legal hypothec for the balance purchase money attached to the land ; 
and, in view of there having been no interval between the purchase 
and the mortgage, the property had not so vested in the defend- 
ant as to give the Crown a right to discuss it. The Queen's Advocate, 
for respondent, submitted that the vendor's lien for the balance pur- 
chase money had been destroyed by the mortgage ; and as the transfer 
to defendant had been absolute and had vested a good title in him, 
the Crown had a preferential right under Ordinance 14 of 1 843. 

Per Creasy, f!. J. — "Affirmed. The words of the 4th clause of 
Ordinance No. 14 of 1843 are so very strong and explicit, that it is im- 
possible to withdraw this case from their operation by reason of the 
61st clause. The first branch of that clause (which alone can apply 
here) refers to mortgages of a prior date to the claim of the Crown ; 
but the 4th clause makes the claim of the Crown date from the day of 
the defaulting officer's first appointment. That was anterior to the day 
of the creditor's mortgage." 



June 17 



D. C. Kandy, Vi'iW. In 1847, one Jayetilike Mohandiram had ' Half im^ 
agreed to pay half the improved Value of a certain garden, whiih he proved value " 
was then in possession of, and to obtain a grant from the Crown. He *" ^'■°"'° lands, 
foiled to do this and so did his heirs, until the property was sold for 
Rs. 6000 in 1872, under the writ of a mortgagee, subject however to 
the claim of the Ciown, The District Judge (^Morgan) having, on 
the motion of the Government Proctor, allowed Rs. 3000, being half 
of the proceeds of the sale, to be drawn, a second creditor, who held 
an assignmenf of a secondary mortgage over the land, objected. 

In appeal, Dias for appellant. — The party in possession having be- 
come entitled to the land, under clause 8 of Ordinance 12 of 1840, so 
far back as 1 847, the value at that date should be taken as the amount 
of which the squatter should pay one-half. The Crown claim for one- 
half of the present Value was not only inadmissible upon a true con- 
struction of the Ordinance, but there was evidence in the case that the 
land had been actually appraised in 1847 fi)r £50 and that Government 
had received £3 in part payment. If there had been default in the 
payment of the balance £22, the Government should have recovered 
it with interest. Besides, the present contest was not with the orisi- 
nal squatter but with innocent purchasers and mortgagees ; and inde- 
pendently of the construction of the Ordinance and the act of the 
Government in 1847, the Crown was barred by its own laches in hav- 
ing allowed Jayetilike and those claiming under him to deal with the 
land as their own and thus impose upon innocent creditors. 2'Ae 
Queen's Advocate, for respondent, was not called upon, 



Jvm 18. { ^^ ^^«^ '«;- 

Per Creast, C. J.— "If the claimants or those whom they represent 
had tendered the sum originally fixed as half vahie, and the Govern- 
ment Agent had accepted it, the case might have been difterent. But 
the payment has not yet been made, and the Ordinance contemplates 
the right of the Crown to payment of half value at the time of pav. 
ment, and not at the date of some petition, probably many years be- 
fore. It does not appear to the Supreme Court that the payment of 
the sum of £3, which has been relied on as a part payment of the 
old valuation, is anything of the kind. The entry respecting it is 
merely the expression of a Government Officer's opinion about a 
matter which had occurred many yeai^ previously. It is far more 
probable that the £3 was paid to cover the expense of the valuation. 
The Government would not, in the common order of things, have 
had the valuation made unless the petitioner had supplied the money.', 



Jtme 18. 

Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

FideiCommis- D. C. Colombo, 59578. One Ahiimadoe Lebbe Constable Sinne 
sum amongst Lebbe Marikar, by a deed dated 12th November, 1853, gifted to his 
brother, Aydroos Lebbe Marikar, an allotment of Crown land in the 
Marandahn Cinnamon Gardens, subject however to a restriction against 
alienation. The defendant having seized the property under a writ 
against Aydroos, the plaintifis (the widow, children and son-in-law of 
the debtor) brought the present action to maintain their title and 
to have the FLscal's seizure set aside. The defendant pleaded that 
the said land absolutely vested in Aydroos, and that the restriction 
contained in the deed of gift was illegal,, void and inoperative.* The 
learned District Judge (SericicA) held as follows : 

" This is a question of the law to be applied among Moors. The 
case was argued solely on the validity of a clau-e of entail or quasi-entail, 
and the effect of it : though another point is also raised ou the pleadings. 
The clause in question occurs in a deed inter vivos, whereby the 
grantor transferred certain landed property to his brother Aydroos 
Lebbe in these words, 'as a gift absolute and irrevocable unto the 
' said Aydroos Lebbe, his heirs, executors, and administrators ' ; and the 

* Where a widow had' accepted as her portion a certain house allotted to 
her by the Executor of her hushand's estate, it. was held that she took the 
property incumbered with the restrictions against alienation provided in the. 
codicil "to the will. Held, also, that the evidence (corroborated bv Mac- 
naghten) disclosed that a restriction similar in principle to the law of 
legitima portio of the Civil L:iw existed in the Moh^mmedian Code, and 
that a testator could only divert from his legal heirs or incumber with 
restrictions ^ of the wh le estate left by him » the heirs being entitled 
absolutely to the remaining f. Per Lawson, D. .)., in. D. C.Colombo, 
52418. Affirmed in appeal on the 2'ttb June, 1S69. 



DISTRICT COURTS. 29 ' 

habendum clause is as follows: ' To have and hold, &c. unto the said 
' Aydroos Lebbe, his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns for 
'ever, subject however to the conditions and restrictions following, that 
' is to say that the said Aydroos Lebbe shall not sell, mortgage or other- 
' wise alienate the said premises hereby conveyed to him, or any portion 
'thereof, but that the same shall be held and possessed by him during 
' his natural life : and after his death, the same shall devolve on his 
' heirs in perpetuity, who shall likewise hold the same under the like 
'restrictions as aforesaid.' The defendant has seized the property on 
a writ of execution against Aydroos, whose heirs claim as plaintiffs 
against the defendant, his iudgment creditor. Defendant contends that 
the restriction against alienation [wrongly styled condition] is illegal, 
void and inoperative, aiid rests his proposition on the Mohammedan 
Law. It is argued for the plaintiffs, that this question, being one affecting 
real property, must be governed not by Mohammedan Law but by the 
Lex Loci : and for the defendants, that in this instance the Mohammedan 
Law is the Lex Loci. Both contentions ate just. The latter was irrev- 
ocably guaranteed by the Charter of 1801, which provided that 'inher- 
itance and succession to lands, rents and goods and all matters of 
contract and dealing between party and party should be determined 
in the case of Mussulmen by the laws and usages of Mussulmen' ; 
meaning, of course, their laws and usages in this part of the world. 
True that after enduring for many years that Charter was in general 
terms repealed, when a new and purely "judicial" Charter, for the 
establishment of new Courts, was granted ; but no new provision or 
alteration was ever made as to the laws to be administered to the people. 
That provision, therefore, even if it has ceased to have force as by virtue 
of the Charter of 1801 which contained it, (which I doubt) has at all 
events force as consuetudinary law, the origin of which can be traced 
up to that Charter at least, if not further. But while it is true, in a 
sense, that Mohammedan law is part of the common law of this country, 
it is not to be supposed that the whole immense body of Mohammedan 
jurisprudence is law here ; or that the dealings ofMoormen in Ceylon 
are solely or even principally regulated by it. Only such parts of that 
system are law here as have been specially introduced into the Island, 
either by express legislation or by ancient, continuous and inveterate 
custom or usage, which is all the Charter of 1801 meant It is in 
(nearly) the same position, in this respect, as the common and statute 
law of England here, and equally with purely English law must give 
place to the ordinary law of the country (which in the last resortisthe 
Eoman-Dutch) whenever there is no inveterate and established 
practice to the contrary, applicable to the particular case. Now the 
question raised in this case concerns that part of the Mohammedan 
jurisprudence which is called by the name of Wukf ; being analogous, 
in some degree, with fidei commissa and entails of private property, as 



June 18. 



Juke 18 | ^'^ ^^«^ "'■— 

well a8 with trusts for charitable, religious atid public purposes. This 
branch of Mohammedan jurisprudence named Wukf, in respect at 
least to its analogies with fidei coninsissa for private uses, has not been 
introduced into Ceylon, and neither has the connected branch of 
'usufructuary wills.' They form no parts of constant and 'perpetually 
recurring practice of the inhabitants,' (which is one of the proper 
characters of a custom as stated by the Civil Law writers to be necessa- 
ry to give it the force of law ;) and are therefore not known to the 
Courts of law here nor recognizable as law. Even if occasional exam- 
ples could be brought forward, such will not constitute nor prove a. 
custom : for nee ex aetvAim frequentia consuetudo .JiuiLYoet, at 1, .*!, 29, 
has collected in one sentence some of the numerous descriptive epithets; 
given in the Digest and Code to a custom having the force of law, 
among which are not only longisvi uxus but inveterate consuetudinis, 
diuturnce, inveterato usu stahihtce, and servatoe tenacitef ; none of 
which can apply to Wukf, in respect to entails forprivate uses, nor to the 
Mohammedan law of usufructuary wills. The clause in question would 
be valid by the ordinary law of Ceylon, and must therefore be held 
valid in this case, however the Mohammedan law may vary in this 
regard in distant parts of the world. So also as to the old contended 
question, on which there is so much variance in different systems of 
jurisprudence, viz. whether a void condition voids the transfer or the 
condition only lapses, — Cas to which the Roman Law, for instance, 
applies an opposite rule to testamentary bequests from what it doe& 
to deeds inter vivos,) —foi the same reason the rules of construction 
and validity and efiect of such conditions, as also indeed the construc- 
tion, etc. of deeds and wills (^generally) including entails and fidei 
commis^a must be governed by the ordinary law of the country, 
because this part of the Mohammedan, system of jurisprudence (viz. the 
construction of wills, etc. and the effect of void conditions) has 
never become part of the law of Ceylon. An exception may be found 
in the case of pyre donations, as to which see the decisions in Colombo, 
D. C. 55746 and 29129 ; but the case in question is not oneofjoare- 
donation, but of ^dei commissum. By the ordinary law of trusts or 
fidei commissa, the owner had a right to dispose of his property and to 
annex to a grant of the use for life a prohibition against alienation, 
which restriction is valid, and the real sense of which is that the 
grantee was only to have a life use and was to be a fidei commissary 
for his heirs. As the property did not vest in the first grantee abso- 
lutely, but only as a fidei commissary, it cannot be taken in execution 
for his personal debt. Although the Mohammedan law has in no degree 
proved to be the basis of this decision, it is satisfactory to note that, as 
far at least as my acquaintance with that law extends, (and I do not 
pretend to a very accurate acquaintance with it) it appears 
to be substantially similar to the Roman Dutch Law on 



DISTRICT COURTS. 



the question to wTiich the latter has been just appli- 
ed. See Baillie's Diprest of M6hammedan Laws, the whole of Books 
ix, X and xi, and particularly sections second and third of Book ix. It 
may be added that, even if the Court had been compelled to find that 
the condition, or rather restriction and prohibition of alienation, was 
void, it would have been very sorry if it had found itself compelled 
to hold also that, if a Moorman intends to create a trust which fails, 
the intended trustee is to take the intended trust property absolutely 
to his private use, instead of its lapsing to the grantor himself, or at 
his death to his heirs. In this case, the fidei commissary was only 
one of four heirs of the grantor. J udgment will be entered for the 
plaintift in terms of the prayer of the libel, save as to damages." 

In appeal, Ferdinands, for appellant, contended that the law appli- 
cable to the case was the Monammedan law, which did not recognise 
restrictions against alienation. 3 Hedaja, 309 ; Baillie, 507-8, 557, 
570. The Queen^s Advocate, (Dias and Kelly with him) for respond- 
ent, was not called upon. 

Per Curiam. — "Affirmed forthereasons givenby the District Judge. 
The Supreme Court has before held that the Mohammedan law of India 
or other places does not necessarily obtain in Ceylon. The laws of the 
Mohammedan inhabitants of Ceylon, when not regulated by enactment, 
must be determined byusage and their laws as existing here." 



'} 



June 20. 



June 20. 
Present CKEAsr, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

D. Q. Colombo, 60701. The plaintiff ( Wichremesehere') joined 
certain creditors of the defendant (I'o^Aam) and accepted a compo- 
sition of five shillings in the pound, and, unknown to the other creditors, 
took a letter from the defendant, that he would pay plaintiff in full 
in the event ot his paying in full any other creditor. The defendant 
subsequently paid certain creditors (who i were not parties to the com- 
position) in full ; whereupon plaintiff' instituted this action to recover 
the difference due to him. The District Judge {Berwick) entered 
judgment for the plaintiff, on the ground that there was no consi- 
deration to forego a part of the debt. 

In appeal, Ferdinands, for defendant and appellant, relied on the 
case of Norman v, Thompson, 4 Exch., 759, in which it was held 
that consideration was not necessary. (He was stopped by the Chief 
Justice who wished to hear the respondent.) 

Kelly, for respondent.— The appellant entered into a conditional 
arrangement with respondent, and the condition having been broken 
he had a right to be placed in his former position. He was one of the 
first to sign the composition and the letter was a contemporaneous 
document which threw light upon the real meaning of the parties, 



Composition 

with 

creditors. 



June 20 { 32 PART I.I.- 

namely that all the creditors must join or it should not be bindinor on 
those who did. As some had refused to join and had been paid in full 
the condition upon which the plaintiff joined had not been observed 
and he was remitted to his original rights. It might be conceded that 
no consideration was necessary to release a claim, any more than to 
make a gift, but in either case the act must be unconditional or the 
condition must be fulfilled. 

Per Ckeast, 0. J. — "Set aside and judgment entered for de- 
fendant with costs. In this case the defendant, being in pecuniary 
difficulties, compounded with the greater part of his creditors for fire 
shillings in the pound on or about the loth of August, 1871. The 
exact date of the Memorandum of Agreement, and of the plaintifi's 
assent thereto, has not been proved, though very material. But from 
the plaintiff's receipt for his share of the composition being dated the 
16th of Au.gust, 1871, and from that being the date of the letter by 
defendant to plaintiff, (which will be presently cited,) it seems probable 
that the assent to the composition deed, the writing of the said letter 
by defendant, and the plaintiff's acceptance of the composition money, 
were contemporaneous acts. The agreement to accept the composition 
Is headed as follows : " We the undersigned creditors of Tathain and 
Company do hereby agree to accept five shillings in the pound on the 
amount of our claims, and to give Mr. Tatham a discharge in full of 
all claims : this dividend to be paid within three months." Here 
follow the signatures of a number of creditors, including that of the 
plaintiff. The letter referred to is as follows : 

Colombo, 16th August, 1871. 
P. N. Wiokremcsekere Aratchy. 

Dear Sir,— It is understood that should I pay eventually to any'of the 
creditors of Tatham and Company more than 5 shillings in the pound, you 
are to be placed in the same footing as regards time and money. 

Year's faithfully, 

Chbistb. Tatham. 
It was proved (by admission) that the defendant paid two creditors 
in full, neither of such creditors being among those who signed the 
composition : but the very important fact was not proved, whether 
those payments in full were befoi'e or after the date of the composi- 
tion agreement. It was argued in the Court below, that the composi- 
tion agreement was in itself bad in law for want of consideration. 
The short answer to this underRomau Dutch law would be, that there 
was no need for any consideration. A creditor may make a release 
of the whole of his debt without consideration ; and the release will 
be operative, unless obtained by foul means. Vanderlindeu, page 
269, and Grotius, page 461 , might be sufficient authorities for this pro- 
position. If it be desired to trace the growth of the Roman law on 
this subject, this may be done by refen-ing to Justinian's Institutes, 
Book Hi, title xxix, 2, where will be found the form of the " aecepti- 



DlStfttCr C0DRT8. 33 1 

lalio" of the legal ficton introduced, in the interests of equity and 
common sense, by Cicero's friend Gallus Aquilius, by which without 
any writing or consideration a release from any kind of obligation 
whatsoever could be given. Next the Prstors held that a " pactum 
nudum liberatorium," though no action could be founded on it, gave 
a o-Qod defence against an action to enforce the claim which the cred- 
itors had agreed to forego. See the Digest, book 2, title xiv, and 
Voet's comments. If a creditor can make a valid gratuitous release 
of the whole of his debt, a fortiori he may do so for part. Indeed the 
Roman law i.s express on the subject. See the Institutes, lib, iii, xxix, 
Sect. 1 . Now in the case before us, the creditor had consideration 
for the release so far as five shillings in the pound. We will suppose 
it to be have been gratuitous as to the residue, though, for reasons to 
be oiti'd presently, such was not the fact. But for the sake of the 
argument as to this part of the case, we will assume that the release 
as to fifteen shillings in the pound was gratuitous. Still the release 
was not the less eflective on that account, unless the transaction was 
tainted by illegality. It may, however, be thought that, inasmuch as 
the plaintiff claimed on an overdue promissory note, we must (under 
Ordinance 5 of 1 852, sec. 2) look to English law and not to Roman 
Dutch law in this case. Many Knglish cases were quoted and relied on 
in the Court below, as invalidating this composition, none of them being 
very recent ones, and all banging on the case of Cumber v. Wane, 
reported in 1 Strange, 426, and also in 1 Smith's Leading Cases, where 
it is ably commented on by the late Mr. Justice Willes (one of the 
greatest legal authorities whose loss this age has to deplore) and 
Mr. Justice Keating. They say of Camber v. Wane that ' its doc- 
trine is founded on vicious reasoning and false views of the office of 
a eom-t of law, and that it has in modern times been subjected to 
modification in several instances.' They state that ' there is au- 
thority for saying that a liquidated demand founded on a bill of ex- 
change or a promissory note, even though overdue, may be forgiven 
by word of mouth ; and, if this be law, such a demand might, with 
consent of the creditor, be discharged by payment of a less amount 
than that secured by the note. See Poster v. Dawber, 6 Exch,, 
839.' We have referred to Lord Wensleydale's (then Baron Parke's) 
jiudgment in that ease, and we find it to be clear and explicit. Baron 
Parke (p. 851) treats as unquestionable the rule that the obligation 
on a bill of exchange or note may be discharged by express waiver, 
and he states that in this respect the contract on a bill or note stands 
on a different footing to simple contracts, in general ; inasmuch as 
(by English Law) an executed contract cannot be discharged except 
by release under seal, or by performance of the obligation, or by pay- 
ment, where the obligation is to be performed by payment. He 
points out (p. 852) that the probable reason for the anomaly is that 
when the Law Merchant as to bills of exchange was introduced into 



June 20 



June 20 



34 Paet 111.^- 

England, at the same time was introduced, so far as regards bills of 
exchanse, the rule quoted from civilian writers as prevailing in Europe 
generally, namely, that there may be a release and dischargee from a 
debt by express words, although unaccompanied by satisfaction or 
any solemn instrument. We see, therefore, that as to the plaintiffs 
claim on the promissory note, the defence set up is good both by 
English and by Roman law. If he desires to sue on the original 
cause of action for goods supplied, the answer to this is, that that 
cause of action is not affected by the Ordinance of 18^2, but 
must be governed by Roman Dutch law : and under Roman Dutch 
Law, as already demonstrated, the present defence of release is valid, 
But fui ther, this case Would fall within the Well-known class of ex- 
ceptions to the doctrine of Cumber v. Wane, which decide that tha 
contract or other act of a third party introducing a new consideration 
may operate in discharge. See the same note to Cumber v. Wane, 
and see the comparatively recent case of Norman v. Thompson, 4 
Exch. 759, where in the judgment of Chief Baron Pollock are found 
these words, which the learned District Judge has cited and which 
he properly regards as ' very weighty.' ' The question is simply 
whether an agreement between less than the whole number of the 
body of creditors, to accept a composition, is binding upon those par- 
ties who enter into that agreement. I do not think that there is any 
ground for doubting that such an agreement is binding. It is a good 
consideration for one to give up part of his claim that another should 
do the same.' So decided Chief Justice Baron Pollock, one of the 
most experienced and able Judges iu commercial matters that Guild- 
hall and Westminster have seen during the present century. As for 
requiring formal evidence of a meeting, of a deliberation, and of a 
solemn compact of the creditors one with another to take this com- 
position, we look on such proof as by no means indispensable. The 
memorandum of agreement is proof enough. The words at the com- 
mencement, ' we the undersigned creditors do hereby agree to accept 
five shillings in the pound,' show unmistiikeably that each creditor 
knew that he was co-operating and agreeing with the other creditors, 
and that other creditors were co-operating and agreeing with him. 
There remains for consideration the far more serious objection, that 
the defendant has nullified the composition agreement by paying two 
of his creditors in full. Unquestionably, if a debtor induces a num- 
ber of his creditors to take a composition, by a promise, either 
express or implied, that there shall be no preference shown, but that 
all of them shall share alike, and he afterwards violates that promise 
by paying one of those creditors more than the rest, he plays the part 
of a deceiver, — his fraud vitiates the agreement, and the creditors 
right to sue him in full revives. But what are the facts here ? The 
gross amount of the debts due to the creditors who signed the agree- 



DISTRICT COURTS. 35 

ment is over four thousand pounds. The two acoouuts paid in 
full are one for £18 and one for £!,'>. Neither of the creditors so 
paid in full had anything to do with the composition agreement : 
and there is not even proof that the payment of either of them was 
subsequent to that agreement. If wc thought that the plaintiff could 
on the whole succeed if he had supplied this proof, we should now 
merely non-suit him, so that he might have an opportunity of mend- 
ing his case in this respect, if possible. But even if it is to be taken 
that these payments were made after the agreement, we still think 
that the defendant is not liable to this action. Whenever there is to 
be a composition, it is always well known that there will be one or 
two stubborn claimants, usually for small sums, each of whom is sure 
to insist on twenty shillings in the pound. Baron Parke, in the case 
of Korman v. Thompson, already referred to, observes : ' It is every 
day's practice that all the creditors sliould enter into a composition, 
except those whose demands are small.' The main creditors look to 
each other, and to joint action with eauh other. There is no pi-oof 
whatever in this case of the existence of any creditors, except those 
who signed the agreement, and the two small claimant^ who were 
paid in full. The gross amount due to the signatories exceeded 
£4000; the total debts due to the two payees in full are precisely 
£33. Notwithstanding the generality of the wording of the letter of 
the 16th December, we think that it contemplated the four thousand 
pounds worth of creditors who signed the composition, and not either 
the £15 outsider or the £18 outsider. And it seems clear to us, that 
the agreement has been substantially performed by the defendant, 
and that he is entitled to judgment." 



,fuNE 20 



D. C. Colombo, 59987. The plaintiff claimed certain premises at Surviving 
Cotanohina, as devisee under the will of the Rev. Solomon David The parent's ri^ht 
defendants, who were the children of the testator by his first marriage, '" 9harge for 
questioned the validity of the bequest as to an imdivided half share, of'children! 
which they claimed by inheritance from their mother, who had been 
entitled thereto under the community of propert •. The plaintiff re- 
plied that the testator had taken out administration to his deceased 
wife's estate, had filed his final account in 1853, and had retained the 
property in question for himself, having paid the debts of the commu- 
uity. He also pleaded prescription since 1853, The defendants re- 
joined that the accounts were fraudulent and not binding on them, 
and that the same had not been accepted and passed by the Court, 
ilioiigh sworn to. They also denied that prescription applied, the 
third defendant having been a minor and the testator having continued 
as administrator in possession. The District Judge {Berwick) gave 
judgment for the defendiints, holding that the aeeo'ints were false, and 
that no prescription applied. He also reserved tu the parties the right 



June 20 ■ 



36 FART III.— 

to move, witliin one month, for the appointment of an administrator 
de bonis non to the estate of defendant's mother and of a receiver to 
the joint matrimonial estate. 

The Queen's Advocate, [Dias with him) for plaintiff and appellant. 
The accounts having been swom to must be considered as passed un- 
der the Rules, and it was not competent to question them twenty yearg 
after. Two of tne defendants were then of age, and prescription would 
run against them. The proceedings were in accordance with the esta- 
blished practice of the Courts. 

Ferdinands, for the )st and 2nd defendants, (respondents) went into 
details of the accounts and contended that these were false, and that an 
administrator in possession could not himself alter the character of his 
possession and plead prescription against the heirs. 

Kelly, for third defendant, (respondent) urged, in addition to the 
position contended for by Ferdinands, that the third defendant was 
admittedly a minor aud could not be bound either by the accounts or 
by iirescriptiini. 

[Counsel all agreed that the latter portion ot the District Court 
judgment, as to the appoim ment of a fresh administrator and of a re- 
ceiver, was unneces^ary, aui might lead to furtber complications.] 

Fer CmsAsir, C. J. — " Ailirmed so far as regards that part of the 
judgment which declares each of the defendants to be entitled to one- 
sixth of the property in the Libel mentioned : set aside in other res- 
pects. This judgment to be final and to have immediate effect. The 
plaintifi to pay the defendants' costs of the action, each party to bear 
tlieir own costs of appeal. In this case the plaintiff is the son-in-law 
of the late Kevd. Mr. David ; the plaintiff 's wife being that gentleman's 
daughtier by his second mai-ria^e. The defendants were that gentle- 
man's children by his first marriage. The plaintiff claims under a 
will in his wife's favor by her father. The defendants claim to be 
entitled each to a sixth share of the property mentioned in the libel, 
as having formed part of the matrimonial estate of Mr. David and his 
first wife. The first wife died in 1850. Mr. David took out adminis- 
tration to her in September 1852. On 28th January, 1853, Mr. David 
filed and swore to a final account, which purports to be an account of 
the whole joint estate. Besides the landed property which is the sub- 
ject matter of this litigation and another small portion of landed pro- 
perty, that account admitted the existence of personal assets to the 
amount of £165 13s. \^d. It gave £81 as the value of the landed 
property. The account took credit for payments and disbursements 
amounting to £248 15*. I^d. Among them was a sum ot £70 14*. 
entered as money paid " for the maintenance of the children." This 
item requires and will receive particular attention. Altogether the 
accoimt brought in a balance against the joint estate of £2 2*. Gd. If 
this were correct, the wife's half was insolvent. On the 23rd August, 
1853, Mr. David applied to the District Judge for an order to sell the 



DISTRICT COURTS. 37 ^ r „„ 

immoveable property. This order was refused. The District Jii(l<re's 
endorsement on the order is as follows. ' The final acoonnt appears 
'incorrect. The administrator has retained all the property himself, 
•"Stating that he would take the debts upon himself, not making any 
' mention of the co-heirs, his minor children.' He does not appear 
to hare made any further application to the Court. In the October 
of that year, he sold a small portion of the landefl property (not in- 
cluded in this action) for the sum of £1.5. It has been contended, on 
the part of the defendants, that the valuation in the account of the 
landed property was grossly below the true amount. Conflictino- evi- 
dence has been heard on this point. We think that the landed pro- 
perty was under-valued, though not to the -extent alleged by the 
defendants ; but, according to the view tak^n by us as to the charge 
of i£70 for maintenance, and as to other matters of law to be spoken 
of presently, it is unnecessary to go into details on this matter. On 
the surviving parent's and administrator's own showing, he had per- 
sonal assets enough to pay oft all debts and disbursements without 
resorting to the landed estate to make up more than a deficiency of 
£13 odd ; supposing the charge for the children's maintenance not 
to be allowable. The said little deficiency of £13 was more than 
covered by the £15 which he received in October 1853 for the 
piece of land then sold by hini. If therefore the charge of £70 14*. 
for the children's maintenance is not allowable, the plaintifi has, on 
his testator's own shewing, no right to set up any claim derived 
through that testator to treat the children's share in the landed pro- 
perty now sued for, as property which Mr. David had any riuht, 
moral or legal, to appropriate. It was stated in argument that the 
, father is entitled, in an account of this kind, to deduct, as against 
the children, sums paid by him for their maintenance ; and in sup- 
port of this, the learned Counsel for the appellant cited Burge, vol. 4, 
p. 679. But the passage in Burge does not in the least shew that the 
father is entitled to deduct and appropriate any part of the capital 
of what would otherwise be the children's portion. It only proves 
that by the law of Holland the father, in settling with the child, was 
entitled to deduct from .the usufi-uct, that is from the yearly profits of 
the child's portion which had accrued during the child's minority, so 
much as he, the father, had expended for the child's maintenance. 
The passage in Burge is as follows : — ' By the Civil law, the father 
is entitled to the usufruct of the property of the child. He enjoyed 
it until the child ceased to be under his authority. But by the law of 
Holland he had no such right. He was only permitted to deduct 
what he had expended in the maintenance and education of the latter, 
and was accountable for the surplus to the child.' All the Roman 
Dutch authorities which we have examined agree with this view. 
Van Leeuwen, p. 61 of his Commsntaries, says. — " No parents can en- 
joy the usufruct of their children's property which they (i. e. the chil- 



Jv^^ 20/ 38 PART m.- 

dren) obtain fi'om others, but tliey ought to cause the same to increase 
for the children; but with this single exception, that it may be appro- 
priated to defray the expenses of their education ; for which purpose 
the same may be disbursed': — still dealing with the usufruct only, and 
in no way authorising the parent to break in upon the children's capi- 
tal. So, at page 63, he writes. — ' To the obedience which children 
owe their parents correspond the education and maintenance which 
parents owe to their children, according to their station in life and 
their circumstances, and which may legally be demanded from them • 
unless the children can maintain themselves by any art or handicraft, 
or unless they have succeeded to or obtained any property from others, 
the fruits or produce whprenfmay he laid out for their maintenance, hut 
not otherwise.' In Van Leeu wen's Censura Forensis, lib. 1, c. ix, sect. 
7, the same law is laid down. Groti us (at page 31 of Herbert's trans- 
lation) says generally t' at ' the f ither has not any usufruct in his 
children's property.' But this must be read in connexion with what 
we find at page 43, where he is expressly speaking of what is to be 
done in the case of the death of one of the two parents. He says, 
' the surviving parent must maintain the sons until their eighteenth 
'year and the females until that of fifteen, only out of the fruits of the 
' property established on the division of property to belong to the same 
'children, imleas for some special reason it should be otherwise direct- 
' ed by the Judge or the ^Veeskalner.' Grotius proceeds in the next 
section to define how the surplus of the yearly income of the children's 
portion, over and above their maintenance, ought to be from time to 
time invested for the children's benefit. We may trace clearly from 
these passages the liabilities and rights of the surviving parent, the 
father in the present case. As father, he was under a manifest legal 
liability to maintain and educate the children. His position, as ad- 
ministrator to his wife, did not relieve him of this liability ; nor did it 
shift the obligation from his paternal character to his administrative 
character. But, inasmuch as the children had now acquired some 
property, the Roman Dutch law allowed him to appropriate to the 
children's maintenance and education so much and no more of the 
profits of that property as were necess:iry for their maintenance and 
education. If for any good and sufficient cause, such as his own ex- 
treme poverty and the insufficiency of the pi-ofits for the due main- 
tenance and education of the children, it was clearly for their advan- 
tage that .some part of tli? children's capital should be expended in 
maintaining and eductitiuLT ihem while minors, he should have applied 
to the 'Jourt for special directions and authority in that behalf. Without 
such special authority, ho had no right to appropriate or in any way 
to alienate a penny of the principal of the children's portion. This 
will be fiiund strongly confirmed by what Vanderlinden (p. 103) lays 
down as the duty of the surviving parent, if about to enter into a sec- 
ond marriage, (as actually occurred in this case) and how whun the 



DISTRICT CO0RTS. 39 

proper measures have been taken of appointing a guardian, of prepar- 
ing and of strictly scrutinising an inventory of the children's rights, 
the children's property usually remains in the possession of the parent 
until the children shall have attained their majority, to maintain them 
during this period from the usufruct or interest thereof. It follows, that 
in this case the father's arbitrary deduction of £70, on account of the 
children's maintenance, was illegal. Without such deduction the per- 
sonalty would, on the father's own showing, have been enough to pay 
off all debts and expenses (within a few pounds) without converting 
any of the landed property : and the £ 1 5 realized by him by the land 
gale in October 1858, made it wholly unnecessary to convert any of 
the property now sued for. This is of itself enough to make us con- 
sider that the father's attempt to convert and appropriate the whole 
of the landed property was an act of illegality and spoliation, by which 
the children are not to be prejudiced. There is the further fatal blot 
in the plaintiff's case, that the supposed transfer by the administrator 
to himself was without order of Court. Moreover the kw forbids an 
administrator to purchase from himself. Much more must it forbid 
him from quietly transferring the property to himself, without the com- 
petition of any other bidders, and at a price fixed by his own appraisers. 
With respect to the claim set up by plaintiff, that his testator, the 
father, had gained a title by prescription, it is enough for us to say 
that, taking all the circumstances of the case into consideration, we do 
not think that the father had exercised such an adverse possession as 
the Prescriptive Ordinance required. We think it better, for the in- 
terests of all parties, not to invite a general opening up of these old 
accounts. We have therefore adopted that part only of the District 
Court judgment which establishes the defendant's rights to their 
shares in these lands." 



Jdnb 20 



Z). C. Kandy, 55940. This was an action to compel specific per- Specific 
formance of an agreement, which, as recited in the libel, was as performance, 
follows. A ct-rtain land mortgaged to a deceased creditor having 
been seized in execution at the instance of a third party, three of the 
heirs of the mortgagee (the plaintifis) arranged with the defendant 
(.the husband of a co-heir) that he should " bid" for the property, on 
behalf of all the heirs, up to the amount of the mortgage. The 
Fiscal, however, having declined to give credit to the heirs of the 
mortgagee, the purchase amount, of which the plaintiffs contributed 
seven-tenths, was ultimately paid by defendant, who obtained a transfer 
\ in his own name. The plaintifis now complained that defendant 
refused either to re-convey the shares to which they were entitled 
or to give up possession of the same. The defendant, in his answer, 
denied the alleged agreement and contribution by plaintiffs, and claimed 
the property as exclusively his own on the strength of the Fiscal's 



June 20 ■ 



j 40 PART III. 

deed. The District Judge (^Morgan) found the issues of fact in favor 
of plaintifis, overruling, on the ground of defendant's fraud, the ob- 
jection taken for the defence, that parol evidence was inadmissible 
to prove an agreement which, as creating an interest in land, should 
have been in writing under the Ordinance 7 of 1840. 

In appeal, Ferdinands, for appellant. — There was a fatal variance 
between the plaintifJs' declaration and proof. The libel stated that 
the breach of agreement consisted in appellant's taking a transfer in 
his own name, after purchasing for the heirs, whereas the evidence 
shewed that he was duly authorized to purchase and obtain such 
transfer, and that he was thereafter to reconvey.- Under the 56th 
clause of the Fiscal's Ordinance, a deed might be executed in favor of 
a third party, if the person who bid at the sale disclosed the name of 
such party as that of the real purchaser. [I doubt it. The clause I 
you quote says that the conveyance shall be to the purchaser, but it / 
does not say to him or any one nominated by him. — 0. J.] The great ' 
question however was, whether parol evidence could have been ad- 
mitted to prove the agreement, which created an interest in land. 
The provisions of our Ordinance (7 of 1 840) were far more stringent 
than those of the English Statute of Frauds, from the operation of 
which all " resulting trusts," as recognized by English equity law, 
were specially exempted. (2 Taylor, 868.) In the Chancery case of 
Sichel V. Raphael, (34 L. J. 106, 3 N. E. 662,) Lord Westbtoy 
held that what was a valid assignment of a mortgage by the English 
law, was not so under our Statute of Frauds, whiohrequired the instru- 
ment to be duty attested by a notary aijd witnesses. Appellant's 
Counsel also referred to the following local cases : Croos v. Croos, D. C. 
Negombo, 1945; Jayewardene's^oase, D. C. Colombo, 4821, 19th Decem- 
ber, 1851 ; Lee v. Ederemauesingam, D. C. Colombo, No. 29669; and 
Pride v. Hadden, D. 0. Kandy, 55765, as shewing that our Courts dis- 
couraged all attempts to loosen the stringency of the local Ordinance 
by the introduction of English equity law. Z)ms, for respondent. — 
The judgment was correct. Fraud hiiving been expressly found 
against the defendant, he could not shield liimself under an Ordinance 
the very object of which was to prevent frauds. D. C. Negombo, 
23754, 28th. January, 1 860. Besides, the right which plaintiffs sought 
to enforce was one arising, not out of a conventional contract, but by 
operation of law, ami as such was no more affected by our Ordinance 
than was the legal hypothec over a guardian's property although in- 
volving an interest in land. 

Per Curiam.—" Affirmed. On examining' the answer in this case, 
we find that the defence under the Ordinance of Frauds was not raised 
on the pleadings. Even if it had been, we should have given judg- 
ment for the plaintiffs on the principle followed in the case No, 23754, 
D. C. Negombo, decided by the Supreme Court on 28th January, 
1860." 



DISTRICT COUKTS. 41 



June 25 



June 25. 
Present Okbast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 

D. C Colombo, 58335. Issue having been joined and the case •^''^'^°- 
set down for trial, the plaintiff and defendant jointly moved, on 
the 7th July, 1871, that the case be referred to the arbitration 
and award of tlie Hon'ble R. E. Morgan, Queen's Advocate, and 
that his award be made a rule of Court by either party after 
notice to the other. The District Jud£;e thereapon made the 
following order : " referred to the arbitration of the Queen's 
Advocate and case postponed till Monday." It appeared that 
the parties and their witnesses were examined by Mr. Morgan 
on the 7tli July, but never afterwards ; that no awaid was made 
on tlie Monday lollowing ; but that on three special appl ciitions 
m^dc by him, (without notice however to the parties) he was 
allowed an extension of time till the 4th January, 1872, on which 
date the award was filed. The first of the three applications 
was made on the 6th October, and was minuted as follows ; 
" not having been able to mate an award in this case, and the 
three months being about to expire, Mr. Morgan moves for an 
extension of a month. Allowed." On the plaintiff, in whose 
favor the arbitrator had found, proceeding to have the award 
made a rule of Court, it was contendnd, on behalf of the defend- 
ant, that the document was void and not available in law, be- 
cause (1) it was not duly stamped as required by Oid.nance 23 
of 1871, (the adhesive stamp used not having been cancelled at 
the time of filing and the date of cancellation not being in the 
arbitrator's manual writing) ; and (2) because the enlargement 
of time, without the knowledge and con sent of the parties, had 
been grossly irregular- But the District Judge upheM the award. 

In appeal, Kelly, for appellant. — The Court was bound, under 
the 18th section of Oidinance 15 of 1866, to fix the time for 
making the award. Either there was no time specified, orMon- 

*Tn Jayewardene v. Perera, O. C. Colombo, 47,24.8, several objec- 
tions to an award which were founded on alleged irregularities, as 
to enlargement of time and date of filing, were over-ruled ; and the 
Supreme Court held, infer alia, " that the appearance of the defend- 
ant before the arbitratnr must be taken as an acknowledgment 
that his character as arbitrator was still subsisting" ; and " that 
the time of signature, and not the time of the completion of the 
stamping, must be taken as the date of the making of the award 
under the terms of reference." Civ. Min., September 9, 1869 ; Deo. 6, 
1869 i and June 21, 1870. 

In O'Halloran v. Stouter, D. C. Colombo, 58,532, it wa^ held that 
where, under a, voluntary reference, the parties by motion had en- 
larged the time for making the award, it was competent fo the 
District Judge, under the 1 5th section of the Ai-bitration O.dinanoe, 
before that enlarged time expired, to grant a further enlar<feinent on 
the mere application of the Arbitrator. Civ. Min., Sept. 12, 1S72. 



June 25 



{ 



42 PART III. 

day, the 10th July, was the date fixed. That the latter was 
intended is evident from the District Judge's subsequent re- 
marks on record : " it is clear, from the minute recorded under 
date July 7th, that it was intended and announced that the award 
was to be made on the following Monday, and that the case was 
not struck oflf the trial roll but postponed till that day, for the 
purposeol receiving the award, and in order that jiidgment might 
at once be entered up." To have recognised, tlierefore, in the 
order of 6th October, that the Arbiti-ator had three months' time 
given him was clearly a mistake ; while, under the v!2tid seetiua 
of the Ordinance, awards could be made in three 'mon tha, only 
under deeds of submission or compulsory orders of reference, 
which was not the case here. [See the wording of the joint 
motion. There is no limit as to time. — Stewabt, J.| But the 
Judge's order is explicit, and the reference, should be taken 
as subject to its terms. [Where a judgment is founded on an 
award resulting f lom a voluntary reference, as iu this case, there 
can be no appeal. See 28th section — 0. J.] Bat he (Mr. Kelly) 
contended that there was no valid award by reason of the irregu- 
larities pointed out, and that, therefore, I he judgment was bad. 
[The Ordinanca estops you from appealing. — 0. J.] 
Per CrillAM. — " Affirmed." 



Slander. -D. C. Colombo, 612C5. This was an action for Slander, the plaiur 

tiff claiming Ks. 500 as damages, in consequence of the defendant hav- 
ing used the following language towards him; "you are a pimp and 
the son of a whore and a pariah's slave." The learned District Judge 
held that defendant " was guilty of disorderly conduct near a public 
thoroughfare, for which, if guilty, she would have been properly pro- 
secuted in the Police Court and fined 5s. ; and that it was proved 
that she did not wilfully and mahciously slander plaintiff by the use of 
language which, filthy as it was, was no more than the ordinary 
explosion and ejaculation of anger among people of their class, and 
was language which no bystander would understand in its Kteral 
meaning." Plaintiff's claim was therefore dismissed with cosK 

Jn appeal, (Bias for appellant, Orenier for respondent^ per 
Ckeasy C. J.— "Set aside and judgment to be entered for plaintifi 
with four cents damages and no costs. We regret we cannot co- 
operate with the learned District Judge in dismissing this ill-founde!i 
and pettifogging action. The authority of Sir Charles Marshall, 
(see J). 412 of his Reports,) and of the cases cited by him, and the 
subsequent practice of our Courts, is too strong for us. The best 
way to meet an action of this kind, is for the defendant to pay a 
nominal sum of money into Court in satisfaction ofplaintift's cause 
of action. If the plaintiff after that goes on and claims higher damages, 
he does it at hit. ]H'ril." 



DISTRICT OtJKTj 43 f T 

i June 27. 

D. C. Galle, 30319. Plaintiffs, as mortgagees and judgment Mortgage, 
creditors, brought the present action to have defendant's claim, 
by purchase, to the mortgaged property set aside. The mort- 
gage was dated 1862, while delendiiiic appeared to have purchas-' 
vii iu 1869 at a public sale, at which one of the plaintiffs was 
present. The mortgage bond was put in suit a day after 
the defendant had obtained a deed of conveyance. The Distriot 
Judge (GiUman) dismissed the case, on the ground that tha 
plaintiffs had been silent at the sale, and that he believed they 
had consented to it in the hope ot being paid their debt with 
the procpeds. 

Jn appeal, (Kelly for appellant) per Creasy 0. J. — " Set aside 
and juiigmont to be entered for plaiutifl as prayed. When tha 
genuineness or the legality of a mortgage is in question, it is a 
very fair topic, in favour of those who impeach it, to show that 
the mortgagee was silent abimt his rights on an occasion when 
it was natural far him to assert them. But such a circumstance 
caunot set aside a confessedly genuine and valid instrument; 
nor can the mere silence of a mortgagee make a title-deed 
for a vendee. It is not so if he had actively induced the vendee 
to make the purchase, by asserting' that the estate was unincum- 
bered. In that case, an estoppel in pais might be created. But 
even that cuuld not affect other parties to the mortgage, who 
took no share in the misrepresentation. See No. 1261, D. 0. Ne- 
goiiibo, decided by the Supreme (Juurt, July 22nd, 1835, and re-< 
ported in Morgan'd Digest, page 54.'' 



V. 

Qavin. 



Jwne 27. 
Present Creasy, 0. J. and Stewart, J. 
D. G. Kandy, 37801. This was an appeal against the follow- xhg Dodan« 
ing judgment of the District Judge (Gilhnan') who, by order of gallaoase, 
the ISupreme Court, had carried out the instructions contained 
in the concluding part of the judgment of the Judicial Com-< Hadden 
mittee of the Privy Council.* 

* A Bond and Mortgage made in purEuanoe of an Order of Court 
by one Executor of his Testator's real estate iu Ceylon, for the na- 
cessary expenses for the cultivation of the estate, and a Fiacal's Sale 
in execution of a decree in consequence of the default in payment by 
Buch Mortgagor, upheld ; notwithstanding an attempt to repudiate 
the Mortgage and set aside the sale by a co-Executor and Devisee in 
trust under the Will of the Testator on an allegation of collusion with 
the Purchaser, and that such co-Executor was not a party to the 
Mortgage. 

The Supreme Court at Ceylon being a Court of Law and Equity, 
it is iu accordance with the practice of that Court that for moneys 



■) 44 PART in,— 

June 27 | 

The Dodan- " This case, well-known as the Dodangalla Estate Case, was 
galla case, remitted to this Court Iroiu the Uunorable the tjupieoie Court 
for the purpose ' that the order of Her Majesty in Council of 
the 28th July, 1871, may be carried into effect.' This directedi 
inter alia, that an account should be taken 'of the profits of the 
estate received by the respondent' (James Farquhar Hadden, 
the plaintiffj ' and of the amount of compensation, if any, for 
any damage which the property has sustained during the res- 
pondent's possession, which are to be paid by the respondent to 
the appellant' (John Gavin, first defendant) to whoin the estate 
■was finally adjudged by the Privy Council judgment abovemen- 
tioned. The question of damage is not pursued by the parties; 
but, on the 31st October, 1871, the plaintiff's agents, through his 
proctor, filed an account ol the profits of, and expenditure on, 
the estate during plaintiff's possesion of it, and subsequjnlly, 
namely on the 19th February, 1 872, a supplementary account- 
Certain items in those accounts are objected to by the first de. 
fendant, the objections being set forth in the papers marked X 
and T respectively, and an answer has been filed, (paper Z) on 
behalf of the plaintiff, to these objections. The taxation of the 
parties' costs, also, by the Secretary of this Court, is questioned 
is respect of several particulars. As the accounts, filed by the 
plaintiff, are of a complicated and mercantile character,' this 
Court intimated, on the 25th April last, that it was prepared to 
exercise the power conferred on it by the Ordinance No. 1.5 of 
1 866, and direct a reference to arbitrators (and even to make 
Such reference compulsory, if the parties could not agree to se- 
lect their own arbitrators) with reservation of any points of law 
that might arise in the course of the examination of accounts. 
Afterwards, however, i he parties agi'eed to accept all the ac- 
counts (subject to errors) with the exception of certain ten or 
eleven items, the right to charge some of which is wholly denied 
by the first defendant; the amount of the others being objected 
to as exorbitant. Before recording my opinion, in detail, on each 
of the disputed items, I shall note briefly the principles of our 
law which have guided me in my determin ations on them. In the 
bona fide advanced to an Executor or Administrator for the purposes 
of the estate which he represents, a suit may be sustained against 
him in his representative character, and judgment and execution bad 
against the Testator's or Intestate's estate j if however the Executor 
or Administrator deals with such estate in breach of his duty, a person 
who is party to such dealings, or takes any property of the Testntor 
with knowledge of a breach of trust, will not be allowed to retain any 
benefit therefrom. 

An Executor by the Law in force in Ceylon has the same powers 
as an English Executor, with the addition that it extends to immove- 
able as well as moveable property. 

See VIII Moore's Privy Council Cases, {N. S.) p. 90. 



DISTRICT COURTS. 45 f ^ 

I June 27. 

first place, the onus lies on the plaintiff to support, by com- The Dodau- 
petent and satisfactory evidence, his claim to make the several ffa^^, oaae. 
charges ia question Secondly, in regard to those items the 
right to charge which is altogether objected to, and in regard 
to the excess in the other items, I have had to consider what 
kinds of expenditure our Common Law, the Roman Dutch, al- 
lows a person (such as plaintiff has been) in possessioii of 
property, to charge against the rightful owner. It appears 
clearly from the authorities that our rules go very much farther 
ttian that followed under the same head of equity in English 
Courts, and that they sanction diflferent expenses according as 
the possessor is one bona fide or mala fide, that is according as 
he is in possession bona fide and withuut notice of any adverse 
title, or mala fide and with such notice. In the present case 
plaintiff is, it is true, a wrong-doer, inasmuch as he believed 
himself to be entitled to the estate and acted accordingly, where- 
as the final'judgment decides that he was not so entitled; but 
it is to be remembered that the present was a case of conflict 
of what seemed doubtful claims to laud, and that the plaintiff 
was put into possession by order of the Supreme Court after a 
most careful judgment by that learned body ,• and that he had, 
therefore, much justification in belieiring that it was not likely 
that he should be again ejected from the possession so given to 
him. In this view plaintiff may be regarded as a bona fide 
possessor. The general rule then, thus deducible from the 
authorities to be presently referred to, is to the effect that a 
possessor whether bona or inala fide is entitled to the impenscB 
necessarice and the impensoR in fructuum perceptionem faotce, and 
the bona fide possessor to the impensts utiles, also, in so far as 
these have enhanced the value of the property, and beyond 
what the possessor has been reimbursed by the profits. The 
authorities may be found in our text-books as follows : — 
Johannes Voet Comment, ad Pandectas, lib. v, tit. 3, § 21, where 
he discusses the difference in this respect between a case de 
hiereditatis petitions, and a real action by an owner claiming 
property, i. e., the suit rei vindicatio of our law. And again, 
lib. V, tit. 3, § 22, where be gives the reasons why a mala fide pos- 
sessor may deduct the impens^ in fructuum perceptionem Jactce., 
viz., because naturali ratione fructus non intelliguntur, nisi de~. 
ductis impensis fruetuum qutsrendorum, cogendorum, eonservando ■ 
rumque causa factis, &c. And again Digest, lib. 20, tit. 1, § 29, 
as to impetiscB utiles quatenus pretiosior res facta est; and 
Digest, lib. 6, tit. 1, § 48 as to their allowance beyond what the 
possessor has been I'eimbursed by rents and prqfits. Compare 
also Bv/rge's Conflict of laws, iii. p, 3.7 1 ; Grotius, lib. 2, cap. 10, §, 7 



June 27. } ^^ "-^"^ "^«- 

The Dodan- * 8; Inst, lib. 2, til. 1, §30,32. These authorities support the 
galla case, proposition I have stated above. Finally, in regard to those 
charges the amount only of which is objected to, I have been 
referred by the first defendant's counsel to the tact that these 
charges as made by the plaintiff and his agents in Ceylon, 
Messrs. Wall & Co., are higher than were made by the first 
defendant and his agents in Ceylon, Messrs. Keir, Dnndas and 
Co., for similar services before the first defendant was di-iposs- 
essed by order of the Supreme Court. On this I think that, 
where there is no decisive evidence one way or another, nsto 
any particular item, the expenses incurred by the first defend- 
ant when he had possession may be looked to by this Court as a 
guide to what the estate required, and on the principle that, if 
no good cause to the contrary be shewn, neither plaintiff nor 
his agents in Ceylon should profit unduly at the defendant's 
expense, the maxim being nemo debet loaupletari ex aUerim 
incommodo. Under the gruidance of these principles, I now pro- 
ceed to consider the various items in the order in wbieh they 
have been objected to at the trial. 

"1. Cartage— This is charged by the plaintiff's Agents, Messrs. 
Wall and Co., for conveying coffee of the estate between the 
railway terminus and their store. It is objected to as being 
unusual ; and it is urged that the charge of i^d per bushel for 
' storage' should cover it. The only evidence on the snhjeot 
before the Court is, that Messrs. Wall and Co. always chiirge 
the item in addition to storage, and that Messrs. Keir, Dundas 
and Co., defendant's agents, did not. There is no evidence ol 
any custom in support of the item ; though there is a scintilla 
of evidence the other way (see witness Mr. MacQregor's siate- 
ments.) I think that this item should be disallowed, as it is not 
shown to be usual according to the custom of coffee — store 
owners in this colony, or an impensa necessarii or utilis, and as 
it would tend, without due reason, to enrich plaintiff's agents at 
defendant's expense. 

"2. Agency and Commission. — These also are charges made 
by Messrs. Wall and Co., during the five years they managed 
the estate as agents for the plaintiff. They are objected to be- 
cause similar charges were disallowed by the Supreme Court to 
the first defendant's agents, when be was ordered to hand over 
the estate to the plaintiff. And it is urged that that order wa* 
made because the defendant was then presumed to be a wrong- 
doer, the plaintiff being now, legally speaking, in the same posi- 
tion. But the real reason why that charge was disallowed by the 
Supreme Court appears to have been because the fiist defemlant 
was supposed by that Couit to be ("though it now appears that 



DISTRICT COUBTS, 47 f t a-y 

j June 27. 

he was' not) a member of the firm of Agents who made the The Dodan- 
chdvge. No such reason can apply in the present case; the galla ease. 
charge was actually incurred and was necessary, being one in 
fruetwum pereeplionem faeta. It is therefore allowed. 

" 3. Sombreorum. — This is the name ol a certain manure or 
artificial mixture, apparently of certain mineral substauoes, 
originated by one of the witnesses, Mr. R. B. Tytler. The 
plaintiff applied it over nearly the whole estate in 186a- 
69 at a cost of above £1100. It is objected that this expendi- 
ture was unjustifiable, as the manure was then but little known 
or appreciated, that it was a mere costly experiment, and 
proved eminently unsuccessful. It is not denied that the plain- 
tiS applied it in perfect good faith and with th'e sole inientiou 
of benefiting the estate ; but it is admitted, also on plaintiif's 
side, that he sent the manure from England to his agents here 
depending solely on his own belief in itj and even against the ve- 
monstrances of one of the partnei's in his agent's firm. Much evi- 
dence is adduced on both sides as to the value of this manure ; it 
is of the most contradictory character ; for instance, Mr. Tytler, 
the originator of the mixture, informs the Court that it suits 
all Ceylon soils, while another gentleman, who has evidently 
studied the important subject ol manures well, believes it is a 
simple waste of money to apply it alone to any Jeylon soil. 
From the othei' testimony it would appear that the truth lies 
between these opposing beliefs, and that the muuure suits somo 
soils iu certain climates and at curtain elevations ;. but that the 
Dodaiigalla Estate does not meet any one of these conditions. 
Indeed the evidence of Mr. Shipton, the visitor employed by 
Messrs, Wall and Co., to inspect Estates under their agency, 
besides showing his own disbelief generally in the efficacy of 
the mixture as a manure, proves that its application to Dodaii. 
galla was wholly without effect, for ho states that 'some parts of 
the es:ate were advisedly omitted from the manuring with 
Sombreorum, so as to watch its effect,' and he adds ' I can- 
not say that I saw the least difference between the manured 
and unmanured portions, and the crops on both parts matured 
equally well.'- No other witness is more competent than he 
to speak concerning the result of the application of this ma- 
nure to DodangalU. It may be, as Mr. Shipton asserts, that 
H was necessary at the time to apply some artificial manure 
to the estate, as the ordinary cattle manure was failing i 
though it would appear from the evidence on the other side, 
'hat there was no practical difSculty in extending the cattle 
establishment; but, without dwelling further on this point, I 
rt'gard it ai> conclusively proved that the Sombreorum did ao 



June 27 



J 



48 PART III ■ 



The Dodan- good to tbfs panicular estate, and that it was, therefore, not a 

galla case, necessary or a useful expenditure, or one required for th» 

gatberiugor fuiiheriag o£ tbe crops, such as may be allowed tO' 

either a bona fide or a malafi,de possessor according to the autbo- 

rities belore quoted. This item must therefore be disallowed. 

" 4. Postage. — The- charges made under this head are objected 
to as being eKiraacsprarai, being from £4-4 to £7-7 annually, while 
it is urged that during tbe time the estate was in the first 
defendant's hands, the item never exceeded £2 or £3. It ig 
stated in the evidence for tbe plaintiff, that the sums charged 
were actually expended, but tbe amounts of tbe items (always 
a certain number oi guineas) would tend to show that they are 
rather the result of some average — say of the total postage 
spent on account of several estates — and no reason is aaeign- 
ed and no custom of merchants is shewn to explain why they 
should be so much higher with plaintiff and his agents, than, 
with first defendant and his agents. The excess is certainly 
not shown to be an impensa neaessaria or utilis,. and therefore 
disallowed. 

"5. Brokerage, — This is a charge of one per centum on the 
sale of the crops in the London market. It is objected to on 
the same grounds as the pi-eceding item, the charge of de- 
fendants' agents being but ha,lf per cent. The excess is dis. 
allowed for tbe same reasons as those mentioned in regard ti 
the last item. 

" 6 and 7. Vegetables and Rain-gauge— The charges under 
these heads are small and the objections to them' were not 
pressed at the trial. They are therefore allowed. 

"8. Interest— Thia is one of th« charges of plaintiff's agents, 
Messrs. Wall and Company, and explained in the evidence to 
be made by them "^ when out of money, a charge on the balance 
of account as tbey went oh; tbey allowed interest when they 
had money in band.' It is objected to however on the grounds 
that, as the estate was worked by money raised by bills drawn 
on England, the agents here, Me.-8rs. Wall and 06.,. should 
have taken care that they kept themselves in funds by that 
means, and that they had no right to advance money them- 
selves, the interest on which is double the amount payable 
on that raised by the Bills on England, It is in fact ooor 
tended that, according to the custom in such cases, there should 
not enter into such accounts as are now under consideration, 
any item for interest in Ceylon, and that it could only creep in 
because of tbe laches of the Ceylon Agents in keeping them- 
selves in funds. These objections seem to me to be well found- 
ed, and there does not appear to be any valid reason why the 



DISTRICT COPETS. ^^ J JCNE 27. 

item should appear in tLe accounts, and it is th-erefore dis- ijjjg Dodan- 
allowed. galla case. 

■" 9. Salary of an Assistant SwperintenAent for two years.— 
This is objected to on the ground that there was no necessi- 
ty for the employment of an Assistant to the Manager ; that 
the first defendant had worked the estate without such aid; 
and that plaintiff's agents, Messrs. Wall and Company, en- 
gaged the Assistant at a time when ttie estate was yielding 
small crops . It is urged, contra, that an Assistant is always 
needed on an estate like Dodangalla, and that in this case 
the expenditure was the more required because draining, a 
very important matter, was attended to under the supervision 
of this -AEsistant ,- and that his pay was saved as weeding was 
more effectually looked after ; and it appears to be admit- 
ted in the evidence that the estate, always a weedy one, 
was less so when plaintiff's agents gave it over to Gav- 
in. It is not shewn that the Superintendent could not 
tiave done the work without an Assistant (unless there bo 
some truth in the suggestion that the time ol the former was 
occupied with an unusual excess of letter writing) and the 
extent of the estate is not so large as of itself to indicate any 
necessity for such aid. Indeed the present manager is stated 
in the evidence to superintend not merely the Dodangalla 
Estate, but another also in addition ; and it is not denied that 
the former property had been regularly weeded once a month 
before plaintiff obtained possession of it. On the whole looking 
to the on'i(s^ro&aH<2i, I do not think that the necessity for this 
charge is made out, and it does not therefore come under any 
of the various kinds of impensis which our law would allow to 
the plaintiff, in whichever way bis position is viewed. It is 
therefore disallowed 

"lO. London Agent's Commission (£183 odd)— It was not expkin- 
ecl at the trial what the nature of this charge was ; and the de- 
cision of the Court in the present enquiry was postponed in 
order to allow plaintifFs agents, Messrs. Wall and Company, 
an opportunity of affording the explanation. It is now stated 
that it is 'a commission of the London Agents for remitting 
net proceeds of the crops to Ceylon' (see memo, marked M.) 
On this explanation the first defendant's counsel do not ob- 
ject to the item, provided that the plaintiff be not allowed to 
charge also (as claimed in the next item) at the rate ot 3J 
per cent for cost of transmission of specie to Ceylon. In view 
of the decision in the next item this one is allowed. 

11. Cost of transmission to Ceylon of £17,301 atZi per cent. — I 
nnd it hard to understand why this item is introduced into the 



The Dodan- account by the plaintiflfor his agenta. It is stated in evidetwje 
galla case, by a member of the Firm of Messrs. Wall and Company, that 
'the charge was not one actually incurred, but' (he adds) ' not 
entering into the question ot exchange, we charged what the 
Supreme Court allowed before, that ia to fiiat defendant wLen 
his accounts were under scrutiny. The state of facts, however 
is widely different in the two cases; in that of the first de- 
fendant's accounts it was held that, as exchange was very high 
(over six per cent) during the period over which his acuuunts 
extended) he could be allowed only the cost of transmission of 
specie then reckoned at an average of 3} per cent ; the prin- 
ciple being that the least expensive mode of remitting the |.iro- 
ceeds to Ceylon should be followed. But during the period 
over which plaintiff's accounts extend, the rates of exchange 
and cost of transmission of specie are, relatively, the reveras 
of those in the former period, the average exchange liom lb67 
to 1871, being hardly one per cent discount. On the pnaui- 
pie, therefore, followed by the Supreme Court, i, e., that the 
least expensive mode of remitting should be adopted, no more 
can be allowed to plaintiff under this head than the amount 
of the exchange at current rates from 1867 to 1871, that is to 
say the cost of exchange actually incurred by him. 

" The above are all the items objected to by the first de- 
fendant. The amount of the net proceeds, as estimated by the 
plaintiff, was lodged in Court on the 22nd March last by the 
plaintiff's Proctor for the use of the first defendant. The money 
BO deposited was drawn next day by the first defendant, who, 
however, reserved his light to question certain items and also 
bis claim to interest. This latter is, at the trial, explained by 
his counsel to be legal interest on the money in the hands of 
plaintiff's Agents after sales of crops and until the money 
came into first defendant's hands : this claim was not objected 
to at the trial and it is therefore allowed. It will be ordered 
that the accounts be referred to such auditors, or an auditor, 
as the parties can agree on, or failing such agreement, to au 
auditor or auditors to be named by the Court, for the calcula- 
tion of the balance of account between the plaintiff and the first 
defendant after the modifications arising from the foregoing 
decisions shall have been introduced into the accounts. The first 
defendant having succeeded in the great majority of the objec- 
tions raised by him in the present enquiry, is entitled to the 
costs of this contention, and these will therefore be decreed to 
him. 

" There remains the question of taxation of costs of this suit 
up to the conclusion of it by the judgment of the Privy Council 



bISTSlCT COURTS. 61 



June 27 



The biU presented by the first defendant's proctor was in tbe The Do.dan- 
usual course taxed by tbe Secretary of tbis Court; and t'be ga'la ose. 
decision of tbis officer is in part appealed from to the Court 
nnder sec. 1, paT; 40 of the Rules and Orders (civil jurisdiction), 
the particular instances where the taxation is objected to being 
detailed in paper marked W. In all others the Secretary's 
annullations are accepted, even those numerous ones where he 
has assigned the items as chargeable " against client" and not 
against the plaintiff. 

"Item 7i The Secretary allows in this (and other instances 
not objected to) half lee only, and not whole fee lo the first 
defendant's second advocate. He reports that this is the usual 
practice of tbis and other Courts, and refers to Bill in case 
No. 45,329 as a precedent. The items are however allowed as 
not being contrary to the rults, and as this case was a very 
complicated one, and as no sufficient practice to the contrary 
is satisfactorily shewn to the Court. 

"Items 9 to 16 and 20 to 21 are properly taxed as against 
client, as being connected with the amendment ol first de- 
fendant's answer and for which, therefore, he only should pay. 
See Rules and Orders, p. 113 No. 9, § 5, 1. Thompson, p. 4734. 
Item 40 is allowed as against plaintiff. 

" Items 47, 48 and 66 and 67 : — The Secretary's mode of reck- 
oning the charge for drawing up briefs viz., at Is, 6d. per folio 
up to 120, and 9d. for every succeeding folio, is according to 
the usual practice sanctioned in the Rajawella case. 

" Item 112, fee to Mr. Adam for valuing the estate, is not 
properly chargeable against the plaintiff, as tbe valuation was 
not made upon any order of the Court. 

Item 116 (£369 odd) is for first defendant's expenses in coming 
to Ceylon to attend the trial. The plaintiff should not be 
asked to pay this. The first summons was served on first de- 
fendant while he was still in Ceylon ; and if he deemed his 
attendance necessary, he might have remained inCeylon. More- 
over it is not usual to allow, even in Ceylon, the expenses of a 
party whose name is not in the list of witnesses. Tbe defend- 
ant might have beeen examined on Commission in England. 

"Item 117. £672 expenses of Commission to England as per 
bill. This Court has no means of judging of the correctness 
of this charge and no guide by which to tax it. It is suggtsted 
that it be left to the arbitration of two Barristers, one to be 
named by each of the parties. 

"The Secretary will now close his taxation subject to the 
above orders, omitting for the present the item last mentioned. 



JCNE 27 I ^2 tAET III.^ 



/ 



In appeal, (the Queen's Advocate {or appe]] ant, Ferdinands hr 
respondent,) pek Ctjeiam. — " AflBrmed, except so far as re- 
gards the plainlifif's claim to be allowed £140 for salary of an As- 
sistant Superintendent fur two years. We think this claim is to be 
allowed, and the judgment of the District Court is to be amendeJ 
accordingly. It appears that the drainage of the estate re- 
quired attention at this period; that this is a very important 
matter ; and that the services of a veiy intelligent and active 
Assistant Superintendent, (such as was the European gentle- 
man employed), were indispensable. The money thus expended 
seems tc be an outlay decidedly requisite, and decidedly " utilis," 
to the estate. "With regard to the other subject matters of the 
appeal, we find the reasons of the learned District Judge, piven 
in his judgment, so clear and foil, that it is unnecessary for us 
to do more than to express onr concurrence with them. There 
were certain objections to the taxation. So far as they related 
to matters of principle, we have ourselves considered them j 
so far as they related to mere matters of detail of charge, we 
have referred them, as usual, to the Registrtir of our Court. 
The result is that the real judgment of the District Court is in 
all respects affirmed, except as to the claim lor tl^e Assistant 
Superintendent's expenses already mentioned. Each party is to 
bear his own costs of this appeal. The other costs are to be 
borne by the plaintiff as directed by the District Court." 



Adminis- D. C. Colombo, 61760. Plaintiff, as administrator, sued to eject 

tration. tjig mother and sister of his intestate from portions of certain lands 
belonging to the estate. The defendants pleaded that they and theiir 
co-heirs, including the plaintiff, had been and were still in possession, 
and that a sale was unnecessary. The case came on for argument on 
a demurrer, that the answer did not disclose a sufficient defence in 
law, when the District Judge, having specially found that the admin- 
istrator had failed in his duty, ruled as follows : " An order will 
therefore be made in the testamentary case, requiring all the major 
heirs to attend and state whether they desire or do not desire that 
they should be temporarily turned out of their cottages pending the 
winding up of the estate ; and, if the majority desire it, then all of them, 
ifany, andnot the defendants alone, will take care that the plaintiff 
be evicted with the others, and the administrator required to give out 
the lands and cottages on lease. In the meanwhile, this case will lay 
over until those steps have been taken in the testamentary suit. The 
question of costs in this action will likewise lay over, and will form 
thesubjectofconsiderationin the audit of the final account as well as 
in the judgment ultimately to be pronounced herein." 



DISTRICT COURTS. 53 ) 

In appeal, per Creasy, C. J. — •" Affirmed. We have carefiiUy 
examined the proceedings in this case, and we agree in thinking 
that the administrator has abused his trust. The District Judge 
points out in his judgment, that he originally refused to grant letters of 
administration in this case, but that he was overruled by the Supreme 
Court. We regret the misuse that has been made of those letters ; 
but we cannot see that, in the judgment then given by us, we acted 
otherwise than we were bound to act by the law of the land. In the 
case of Lewis v. Adrian, decided by us in November, 1871, and reported 
in the Colonial Gazette of 2nd December, 1871, we set out fully our 
reasons for holding that the English law as to executors and adminis- 
trators is in full operation in this island, and has been so since, at least, 
the Charter of 1833.* When an intestate's estate is of very trifling 
value, we might, in accordance with custom, forbear to enforce the law 
which requires the taking out of administration. But we could not 
foUowsucha course in cases like the present, where the assets were 
substantial, amounting to ^£150, We have no right to set aside the 
clear law of the land, for the purpose of favoring what we may deem 
the interest of the heirs in a particular case, and we have no right to 
deprive the Crown of any part of its revenue. But, though in such a 
case administration must, (at least if applied for,) be granted, the 
administrator is always under the supervision of the District Court. 
He is always to be looked on as a trustee, and he is liable to be con- 
trolled and made responsible like any other trustee, if he thwarts and 
violates the purposes of his trust. In the very case referred to of 
Lewis V. Adrian, while we carefully and explicitly declared the law as 
to administrators, we treated the then defendant as a trustee thwarting 
the purposes of the trust, and we, therefore, refused to give her the 
reversal of the judgment against her to which she would have other- 
wise been entitled. We follow asimilar course on the present occasion." 



JuNB 27 



D. C. Colombo, 3322. This was an appeal against the follow- Administra- 
ing order by the District Judge, on an application made by tion. 
an administrator to be authorised to sell certain immoveable pro- 
perty belonging to the estate. " Sale allowed, but to be held by 
the Secretary as auctioneer at the Court house, and to be for 
cash which is to be deposited in Court." 

Greaier, for appellant. — The Administi-ator had given security 
for the due administration of the estate, and nothing in his past 
conduct justified the implied reflection on his honesty. Besides, 
to prescribe a cash sale was to ensure the property being sold 
at a sacrifice. 

'See also Staples v. De Saram, D. C. Colombo, 43213. Civ. Min.' 
July 17, 1867. 



, , f 54 PAHT III. — 

July 1 < 

Per Ceeast, 0. J.—" Affirmed. While we hold that the 
law is compulsory on District Judges to grant letters of ad- 
ministration to intestate estates, except where the value of the 
e-itate is absolutely trifling, we think that we are at the same 
time bound to support, as far as fairlj possible, the District 
Judge's power of controlling the conduct of the administrators. 
We should not interfere with their discretionary exercise of 
that power, except when it was evident that a District Judge 
had acted out of mistake, and also that the course directed bj 
him was calculated to injure the estate. We do not regard the 
present as a case of the kind. One administrator ofthisestate 
has misconducted himself, and absconded. The letters of 
administration granted to him have been cancelled, and the 
present appellant has been appointed administrator as attorney 
for the heirs who are absent from the island. The Court may 
well be vigilant in behalf of the heirs. The sale being by the 
Secretary of the Court will ensure a bona fide public sale. 
Otherwise, as auctioneers are no longer required to take out li- 
censes, any cooly may be made auctioneer for the occasion , and 
the assets may be jobbed away in a bole and corner sham sale. As 
for the order that the sale must be for cash, it appears to us that 
the property is house property in Colombo, estimated at two 
thousand rupees ; and there is no likelihood of there being a 
want of cash purchasers for such property at or about such an 
amount." 



July I. 
Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
Community D- 0. Matara, 26343. In this case the plaintifif claimed 6 buf- 
of property, faioes and 12 calves, by right of her husband who had died about 
three years before the date of action, leaving behind a son since 
deceased. The defendants (mother and sister of the plaintiff's 
bu=.band) admitted their possession of 5 head of cattle bearing 
the marks described in the libel, but denied that they were tha 
property of the intestate. They further denied that the plain- 
tiff was wife of the deceased, and that he had any issue by her. 
After evidence heard for plaintiff, judgment was entered for her. 
for 4 buffaloes and 4 calves which the 2nd defendant in examina- 
tion had admitted were in her possession. In appeal, Seven, for 
appellant, contended that, even if the evidence was held to be 
sufficient to establish the right of the plaintiff's husband to the 
cattle, it failed to establish the plaintiff's right to all her hus- 
band's property. No evidence had been led to show that the 
plaintiff had any issue by her deceased husband ; and, failina 



DISTRICT COUKTS. 55 

issue, the defendants (the mother and sister of the intestate) 
were entitled to half the property. Per Oee AST, 0. J.—" Af- 
firmed as to one half in va'ue of the buffaloes mentioned in the 
judgment of the District Court: the District Judge must settle 
the question of value. The plaintiff has not thought fit to 
support the judgment given in the District Court. After 
hearing the appellant and examining the evidence, the Supreme 
Court thinks that plaintiff , as wife, was entitled to only one 
half the property, and the heirs to the other half. There is 
no evidence that the chile, who is joined as co-plaintiff, is the 
child of Dingi Appoo and the first plaintiff." 



JCLT 1 



D. C. Matara, 26376. This was an action to set aside a Lgcal age of 
Fiseal's seizure, the plaintiff claiming the land in question on a majoiity. 
bill of sale dated 1846, and by uninterrupted possess'on since; 
and the defendant aseerting that it was the propeity of his 
judgment debtor acquired by inheritance. The debtor's age was 
proved to be 30 years, and it was contended that, although 
under the Mohammedan law he was a major in 1859, yet, by 
operation of Ordinance 7 of 1865, he did not attain the legal age of 
majority till 1864, and that therefore prescription had run 
again'^t him for only 9 years. The Judge (Templer) held that 
the Ordinance had no retrospective effect, and gave judgment for 
plaintiff. In appeal, Dias, for appellant, contended that the 
wording of the Ordinaace distinctly favored the defendant's 
contention. [Such a construction as yon seek to put would lead 
to a manifest absurdity, howevar grammatically correat it might 
be. — O.'J.] Ferdinands, for respondent, was not sailed upon. 
Per Obbast, C. J. — " AfBrmed. The Ordinance cannot be 
looked upon aa -retrospective." 



D. ('. Kandy, S'2439. The plaintiff claimed one-half of a land and Compensation, 
house at Gampola under the Will of one Appua, while defendant 
claimed the whole by purchase from Appua's daughter. The house 
in question had been built by defendant subsequent to his purchase- 
The District Judge (Oillman) gave judgment for plaintiff as prayed 
for, holding that defendant, as a mala fide possessor, was not entitled 
to any compensation for the house. 

In appeal, Dias, for appellant, restricted his claim to compensation, 
contending that there was no evidence of mala fide possession on the 
part of defendant. Ferdinands, for respondent. — Plaintiff was a minor 
when the house was built : she could not object, and therefore should 
not he prejudiced in any way. If defendant were entitled to compen- 
sation for the house, the rents he had received should be set off against 
the cost of the building. 



JULT 2 j ^6 

Per Creasy, C. J. — " Affirmed, but the case is sent back to be 
amended as hereinafter mentioned. The Supreme Court thinks it by 
no means proved that the house was built by a mala fide possessor. 
It is, therefore, unnecessary to go into the somewhat obscure question 
as to what, if any, compensation the defendant would be entitled for 
expenses if the possession had been mala fide. We might on this have 
had to refer to Voet, lib. vi, tit 1, 36; Grotius, p. 106; Warnkoening, 
p. 93, and his note thereon, and many other authorities. The plaintift 
is entitled to recover one-half of the house, but she must pay compen- 
sation for the value of that half. Per contra in reckoning damages 
the worth of the land with the buildings must be regarded. It is very 
desirable that the parties should agree to some amount to be paid, 
but if they will not, the District Judge must acertain it." 

July 2, 
Present Ckeast, C. J. and Stewart, J. 
Crown land. D. C. Colombo, 58733. The question in this case was the right of 
the Crown to sell in 1869 to the defendant a piece of ground which 
plaintift claimed by inheritance from his father, who had originally 
applied for it to Government in 1821 and made certain payments in 
respect thereof in 1 845, but who had failed to obtain a grant. Judg- 
ment having been entered for plaintiff, the defendant, who had pur-i 
chased from the Crown, appealed. 

In appeal, Dias, for respondent, on being called upon, contended 
that the Crown having received from plaintiff's father 5 shillings per 
acre under the Minute of 1844, had acknowledged his title to the land 
and its own obligation to issue a grant. If no grant had issued, it 
was not the plaiutiff's fault. As to the conditions prescribed in the 
Minute, it might fairly be presumed, after the great lapse of time since 
1844, that they had all been duly fulfilled, particularly in view of the 
fact that plaintiff and his father had possessed since 1821 and had not 
been disturbed till 1870, after the second sale by the Crown to the 
defendant. 

The Queen's Advocate, for appellant, in reply. — The land in ques- 
tion was waste, uncultivated and imoccupied at the time the action was 
brought, and as such was to be regarded as CroWn property, under 
Ordinance 12 of 1840. The fact of plaintiff's father having* appKed 
in 1821 and made certain money deposits in 1845, was insufficient to 
create a title, although it might possibly give a right to compensation 
as against the Crown. Under the Minute of 1 844, the Crown could not 
be compelled to confer title on every holder of a conditional grant * or 

* As to the effect of conditional grants and the right of the Crown to 
summarily resume possession of lands which have never been brought 
under cultivation, see the judgment of the Supreme Court in C. R. Pana- 
dure, 13969, Civ. Min., Sept. It, 1872. 



DlSTKICT COtTRTS. 57 1 -.^^^ 2 

ticket of application; and in this particular case, the evidence showed 
that the original applicant and those claiming under him, so far from 
entitling themselves to an absolute transfer, had by non-cultivation 
defeated the very object of Government in the matter of these grants, 
which was to secure a corresponding increase of revenue by an increase 
of cultivation. 

Per Ceeast, 0. J. — " Set aside and judgment to be entered for 
defendant with costs. This Las been treated in the Court be- 
low as a clear case of unconditional purchase and sale, of the 
land between the plaintiff's father and the Grown in 1845, .^o- 
coiupanied by payment of the purchase money j though, through 
the culpable neglect of the officers of the Crown, (as supposed 
by the District Judge,) no formal grant was executed. On ex- 
amining the facts, the Supreme Court thinks that the case is one 
of a very different character. There was never any purchase and 
sale at all, but the plaintiff's father, who had made application in 
1821) appears in lS45to have again applied to theCrown, under the 
minute of the 8th of August 1844. That minute is as follows : — 
Whereas prior to the advertisement of 11th July, 1833 giants 
of land were made on condition of paying 1-lOth of the produce, 
and subject to forfeiture in case ot non-cultivation, and whereas 
Bueh titles are imperfect and incomplete, notice is hereby given that 
the holders of such grants who may be desirous to obtain a com- 
plete title, will be allowed to purchase the same, (subject to a pepper 
corn rent,) at a fixed price of five shillings the acre, on giving up 
their conditional grant, provided however that no such title will be 
given to paddy lands. And whereas that many lands are now held under 
tictets of application dated prior to 1833, but for which grants 
have not been issued. It is further notified that holders of land 
under such tickets will be allowed to purchase so much land aa they 
have actually cultivated, and to the aliention of which there is no 
objection at a fixed rate of five shillings an acre, to be held also 
under the conditions now in force. Any pecsons desirous to obtain 
such title are required to lodge their application with the Govern- 
ment Agent, and to pay into his hands the purchase money and re- 
gulated fees from this date. 

By His Excellency's Command, 

P, Anstruihke, 
Colonial Secretary. 
Colonial Secretary's OfBce, 
Colombo, August 8th, 1844.. 

" Under this minute the plaintiff's father, in order to obtain 
a grant, was bound not only to bring in a certain sum per acre, 
but also to piove how much he bad ' actually cultivated,' for 
which amount only he was to have a grant. Even that grant 
was not be made, if the Crown had any objection to the aliena- 



July 2 



( 58 PART III.— ' 

tion of the land ; and the grant, if made, was to be made subject 
to a condition for forfeiture in case of non-cultivation. It does 
not appear that the plaintiff's father ever satisfied the Crown 
as to his 'actual cultivation' of this land. It appears indeed 
impossible that he should have done so. According to the evi- 
dence, the land was never cleared of jungle, and the proof of 
planting is meagre in the extreme, even after making due allow, 
ance for the effect of lapse of time in removing possible wit- 
nesses. Certainly the land, if ever cultivated, was allowed to 
relapse into a jungle state ; and this circumstance would have 
of itself invalidated any grant that could have been previously 
made under the minute of 1844. The learned District Judge 
quotes a case as 4459, D. C, Uttuankande, Morgan's Digest, 
p. 155, of which he says that ' it has been decided by the 
lull Court in appeal, that the mere application for land raises a 
strong presumption of possession.' On searching for that case 
in the Court Minutes, we find that it does not in any way relate 
to our present subject. There is probably an error of the 
press in Morgan's Digest, and the reference ought to have been 
No. 2249, D. 0. Negombo, decided on the same day. That case 
is a decision of a single Judge. It determines nothing as to 
the rights of the Crown, but it merely declares that when two 
private persons are disputing with each other about the ancient 
possession of land which bad been originally Crown land, the 
party makes out a strong case of possession who proves an appli- 
cation in his own name for the land, a survey of the land made 
in consequence of the application, the clearing away of the 
jungle by his cropping part of the land, and payments by him 
of the Government renter's share of the crops. Another case 
cited in the Court below is one reported in Morgan's Digest, 
p. 85, as No. 83, D, 0. Kumnegala. The learned District Judge, 
in his present judgment, alludes to that case as a carefully con- 
sidered judgment of the Collective Court, which establishes that 
the ■ condition of the land at the date of the passing of the 
Ordinance No. 12, of 1840,' is to be considered as determining 
whether the case falls within the enactments of that Ordinance, 
as to the presumption about waste and uncultivated lands being 
Crown property. We cannot find that case or any case resem- 
bling it in the Court Minutes of that period, 18th August, 1853. 
According to the Report in Morgan's Digest, it was a decision of 
two Judges only, not of the Collective Court, It was a deoisioa 
about Chena lands, and as reported is not very intelligible. In 
any point of view, it would not affect our judgment in the pre- 
sent case, but we mention it lest we should be thought to assent 
to the doctrine about the Ordinance No. 12, of 1840, which has 
been pronounced in the Court below.*' 



district courts. 59 , . „ 

July 8 



July 8. 
Present Ceeast, C. J, and Stewart, J. 

D. C. Colombo, 3627. The facts and law of the case as found by The Mortmain 
the District Judge (Berwick) are fully set forth in his learned judg- '^''*®" 
ment which is published in extenso in the Appendix to these Re- 
ports. The important questions, however, in respect of which the 
present appeal was taken were — 

" The validity of Bequests of Land or of the Revenues of Land for the 
annual celebration in perpetuum of Roman Catholic Solemnities and 
Festivals j and of other similar Bequests more strictly for Charitable 
purposes; — and, if intrinsically valid without a Mortmain license,^then 
the proper application of the Funds when this has been insufficiently 
defined ; — ^and the mode of executing the Testator's intentions, when either 
through the omission of the Testator, or any other cause, due provision 
for this purpose fails." 

The District Judge, having decided that the Dutch Mortmain Laws 
were in force in the Island, declared the Bequests for religious uses 
invalid, but upheld those for cAan'fa J fe purposes and made order for 
the due administration of the funds arising therefrom. 

In appeal, the Queen's Advocate (Grenier with him) for the appel- 
lant, who was the Roman Catholic Bishop ; Dif7s for the heirs benefit- 
ted by the judgment ; and Brito for the Executor, 

[The Chief Justice desired to hear respondent's Counsel first.] 

Bias, for the respondent. — The Dutch law of Mortmain was in full 
force in the Island, and it was unnecessary to add to the authorities 
cited by the learned District Judge to show that in the Province of 
Holland Mortmain laws were in full force at the time this Colony was 
ceded by the Dutch to the English. [There is no occasion for authorities 
on that point. The question is whether the Dutch ever brought their 
Mortmain laws to Ceylon. — C. J.] The law of the Maritime Provinces of . 
Ceylon was the law of Holland, and the onus was on the other side to show 
that any particular part of that law was not imported into Ceylon 
by the Dutch. It was well known that the administration of the 
possessions of the Dutch in the East was marked by one uniform sys- 
tem, and the learned District Judge referred to several Batavian 
Placaats which conclusively proved that the laws of the Province of 
Holland with regard to Roman Catholics were observed in her East 
Indian Colonies. There was nothing to indicate that Ceylon had been 
an exception to the rule. On the contrary, the early Proclamations of 
the English Government clearly shewed the state of the law during 
the preceding Dutch Government. The Proclamation of the iSvd 
September, 1799, after allowing liberty of conscience and the free ex- 
ercise of religious'worship to all persons in the Maritime settlements, 
limited that freedom by stating that " no new places of religious wor- 
ship be established without our license or authority first had and ob- 
tained." Ti.e reservation of the right of the Crown was quite in 



T „ ( 60 PART in. — 

July 8 < 

Moitmain accordance with the Roman Dutch law, (Voet, 28, 5, 3.) and clearly 
case. proved that the English Government adhered to the law of Holland 
against alienation in mortmain without the license of the supreme 
power. There was nothing in the Proclamation to show that the En- 
glish had only revived a practice which had fallen into disuse during 
the Dutch Government : it simply repeated the previous law to pre- 
vent any possible misunderstanding of the first portion of it which 
conceded liberty of conscience. Next in order of time came the Re- 
gulation of iiTth May, 1806. It was intended "for taking oflF the res- 
traints which were imposed upon the Roman Catholics of this Island 
by the late Dutch Government." It distinctly affirmed that the 
Roman Catholics were, by several laws passed under the late Dutch 
Government, rigorously excluded from many important privileges and 
capacities, and that though they were not acted upon by the English 
Government in all cases, they were yet unrepealed. This Regulation 
was of importance as it shewed (1) that the laws of Holland against 
Roman Catholics had found their way into Ceylon and were in force 
during the Dutch Government, and (2) that they had not altogether 
fallen into disuse during the English Government. The first clause 
of the Regulation was a mere repetition of what had abeady been 
conceded by the Proclamation of 1799 ; the second clause admitted 
Roman Catholics to all civil privileges and capacities ; the third 
legalised marriages which had taken place according to the rites of 
the Roman Catholic religion ; and the fifth repealed all laws which 
contr.idicted the provisions of the Regulation, which, it should be 
remembered, only dealt with the Roman Catholic laity and had nothing 
to do with religious establisliments or tneir rights and obligations. 
That part of the l roclamation of 1799 which enacted that no new 
place of religious worship should be established without the license 
of the Crown, was not touched by the Regulation ; and the word 
" capacities" used in the second clause was clearly insufficient to 
warrant the contention of the Roman Catholic Bishop, that it was 
competent for any one of the Churches within his diocese to take 
and hold real property without the license of the Crown. The obvious 
intention of tliat clause was to remove civil disabilities from Roman 
Catholic laymen, and enable them to hold offices of trust or profit which 
probably they were incompetent to do under the Dutch Government. 
Then followed the Regula ion No. 5 of the -JSrd November, 1829, 
which introduced the Catholic Emancipation Act (10 Geo. 4, c. 5) 
into this Island, but did not profess to deal with Churches or Priests. 
It had been argued for t!ie Bishop in the Court below, that the Dutch 
Mortmain laws had fallen into disuse in Ceylon during the 
English Government ; and the Ordinace No. 2 of 1840 had been re- 
ferred to as evidence in support of the contention. That Ordiniince, 
however, had several objects in view, viz. (1) preventing alienation in 



DISTRICT COURTS. 61 1 ^ 

> Jolt 8 

mortmain ; (2) authorising religious communities to liold land for a Moitnmia 
limited term without the Governor's license ; (3) .mthoi-ising tliein to '=*'*''• 

alienate lands already vested in them ; and(4y subjecting such lands 
to taxation under certain circumstances. It was a comprehensive 
measure, embracing partly the already existing law and partly several 
new enactments and modifications of old ones ; and it could not fairly 
be argued that the mere recital of a law under such circumstances 
was evidence that that law had not previously existed. The next point 
made for the Boman Catholic Bishop was founded on the decision of 
the Supreme Court in Murray's Reports, p. 63. The learned District 
Judge, had conclusively shewn the inapplicability of that judgment 
to the present case. The question there was a pui-chase : here, 
a bequest. Besides, the Judges in that case referred to the Regulation 
No. 4 of 1806 in support of the statement that the Dutch laws restrict- 
ing donations, &c., did not appear to have been acted upon by the 
English, while nothing in the Regulation warranted such an assumption. 

The Queen's Advocate was not called upon to reply, but stated, in 
answer to a question put by the Chief Justice, that the Crown had 
never any intention of disputing the validity of the Bequests which the 
District Judge had held to be illegal. 

Brito, for the Executor, would support the contention on behalf of 
the Boman Catholic Bishop as to the validity of the Bequests in ques- 
tion. He was chiefly interested in securing a reversal of the District 
Court order interfering with the rights of the l!Jxecutor to administer 
the trust tunds. 

The Chief Justice delivered the following elaborate judgment this 
day. 

"In this case the learned Judge of the District Court of Colombo 
has himself caused questions to be raised as to the validity of certain 
Bequests in favor of certain Roman Catholic Churches in this Colo^y, 
and of certain other Bequests for religious and charitable purposes, 
all more or less connected with the Roman Catholic religion or ritu- 
al. The most important matter thus brought forward by the learned 
District Judge for consideration, is whether the Dutch Mortmain laws 
are in force in this Colony or not. And, as there is an express decision 
of the Collective Supreme Court on the subject, we should have consid- 
ered ourselves justified in dealing very briefly with the present rul- 
ing of the District Judge of Colombo in opposition to that Supreme 
Court judgment, if it were not that he endeavours to distinguish be- 
tween the two cases. In order to shew that the same prin ciple, which 
mrat govern the present case, was determined by our predecessors, 
we must discuss some of the numerous topics, whicli the learned Dis- 
trict Judge has introduced and commented on so copiously in his 
jiidfrnient. We must see what the Dutch Mortmain laws were, and. 
also, to some extent, what they were not. Almost throughout the 



f 62 PAKT III. 

July 8 < 

Moi-tmrtin judgment of the Court below, the Mortmain laws of Holland are mix- 
case, ed up with the Penal laws against (supposed) false religions, which the 
Dutch enacted both in Holland and in their Colonies. The two classes 
are entirely distinct. The main source of the Mortmain laws in Me- 
diseval Holland, as in the rest of Mediaeval Europe, was -Feudalism: 
they were originally enacted chiefly by reason of the desire of Feud- 
al Lords to keep the lucrative perquisites of their seigniories undimin- 
ished, and by reason of the desire of Feudal sovereigns to keep the 
feudal military power of their realms unimpaired. The Mortmain 
laws are essentially measures of State Policy. The Penal laws are 
essentially measures of supposed religious duty, of the duty, which 
rulers considered to be incumbent on them, to repress and to extirpate, 
if possible, all false creeds and all heresies, and to maintain, by the 
strong arm of the secular Magistrate, what those rulers deemed to be the 
one true creed, and the only orthodox ritual. Besides erroneously blend- 
ing the Mortmain and the Penal laws, the learned District Judge, almost 
equally erroneously, mixes up the Mortmain laws with the old Roman 
laws on the subject of Associations, " Collegia." Now we take it to 
be perfectly certain, that the origin and the governing principle of the 
old Roman laws about " Collegia " came from the jealous dislike with 
which the Aristocrats and the Emperors of Rome regarded all combi- 
nations of any number of the lower classes, as likely to become Politi- 
cal clubs (Hetserise) and nurseries of democratic faction. Moreover, 
there is explicit and abundant proof that Justinian, and other Christian 
Emperors before him, expressly gave full power to the Church and all 
charitable institulions to receive and hold property; and thus exempt- 
ed ecclesiastical and charitable institutions from the law which forbade 
the acquisition of property by associations, if unlawful associations, 
" illicita collegia'' The doctrine of the learned District Judge on 
this subject will be found at page 4, column 1 of his printed judgment. 
He says, respecting the ancient statutes of Mortmain, that "they were 
founded on the Justinian Code ' Collegium, si nullo privilegio subnixum 
sit, hereditatem capere non posse, dubium nonest;' a law of Hadrian 
as old as the 2nd century. Code, Lib 6, tit 24, sec. 8; and the doctrine of 
prohibited colleges is laid down in the Digest, 47, 22, 1. Mortmain was 
therefore an essential part of the Common Law of Holland." Suoh are 
the words of the learned District Judge : and as this matter of the old 
collegia, and their capacity or incapacity to take by bequest or other- 
wise, come first in chronological order of the subjects which we have 
to deal with, we will proceed at once to consider it. The ori^n, which 
we have already mentioned, of the old Koman laws about collegia, 
namely, the iealousy with which the ruling powers regarded all com- 
binations among the lower orders, is pointed out by almost every his- 
torian who has dealt with the subject of Imperial Rome. Gibbon, 
vol. 2, note to p. 226; Arnold, in his Essay on the later Roman His- 



DISTRICT COURTS. 63 \ j^^^ g 

tory, vol. 2, p. 441 ; Merivale, in his History ol the Romans under the Mortmain 
Empire, vol. vii, p. 263 ; all refer to it. Perhaps an authority more con- (^use. 

genial to a legal atmosphere will be that of Matthseus de Criminibus, 
title XV, " De CoUegiis et Corporibus," c. i. The " Prerogative " 
instance of this jealousy, is the conduct of the Emperor Trajan in re- 
fusing to aHow the institution of a self-organised company of volunteer 
firemen at Moomedia in Bithynia, a city which had sufiered much by 
conflagrations. The Emperor objected on the express ground that 
he did not like the principle of association, as it was sure to lead to 
political clubs. His words are " Quodciimque nomen ex quacunque 
causa dederimus lis, qui in idem contracti fiierint, Hetaeriae, quamvis 
breves fient." It was Trajan's friend and successor Hadrian that 
issued the edict cited by the learned District Judge, that a collegium 
could not take by will, unless it was aided by some special privilege. 
Hadrian's successors tempered materially the rigour of this prohibi- 
tion. They declared that a "collegium" might take by bequest, 
unless it was an unlawful association. See the Digest, book xxxiv, 
tit. V, sec. 20. "Cum Senatus temporibus Divi Marci permiserit col- 
legiis legare, nulla dubitatio est quod si corpori, cui licet coire, legatum 
sit, debeatur: cui autera non Ucet, si legetur, non valebit, nisi singulis 
lecetur." The Christian Emperor Marcian, by his Institute cited in 
the Digest, book xlvii, tit. xxii, sec. 1, authorized religious " collegia." 
" Eeligionis causa coire non prohibentur : dum tamen per hoc non fiat 
contra Senatus-consultum, quo illicita collegia arcentur." Matthseus 
follows Bynkershoek in understanding the special Senatus-consultum 
mentioned in this law, to be that which was passed in the time of the 
Commonwealth against the societies of the Bacchanalians which out- 
raged all public decency and morality. The Emperor Constantine the 
Great authorized all people to bequeath property " sanctissimo Cathol- 
ico venerabilique concilio." See the Code, book 1, title 2, sec.'l. 
Peckius, in his treatise " de Amortizatione Bomorum," c. v, points out 
that this means any " Ecclesiasticum Collegium." The Emperor 
Justinian is still more explicit. By the 46 th section of the 3rd title 
of the same book of the Code, he compels heirs to execute the be- 
quests of testators who have made any pious dispositions of their pro- 
perty. Subsequent passages of the same section show that Justinian 
oomprised under the term " Pia Dispositio," legacies for church 
repairs, legacies in favor of monasteries, almshouses, hostels for way- 
farers, hospitals for the sick, children's hospitals, and generally that 
he meant to include all dispositions for the good of pious societies, 
at any rate for those that were not such associations of the lower 
orders as the law prohibits, " coetibus piis, aut omnino non prohibitis 
ex plebe collegiis." Finally, there is the seventh Novella of the same 
Emperor, coUatio 2, title 1, which most solemnly confirms ecclesiasti- 
cal bodies in their possessions, and forbids the alienation of such 
possessions. It includes in its provisions not only bishops, but the 



T o f '^^ PART III. 

July 8 '. 

Woitiiiiiin heads and managers of chaiitable institutions of all kinds (apparently) 
case, tiigy, known. It denounces every breaker of its provisions, whether 

" xenodochum, aut ptochotrophum, aut nosocomum, aut orphanotro- 
phura, aut brephotrophiim, aut gerontocomum, aut monasterii . 
virorum, vel mulierum abbatem vel.abbatissam, aut quemlibet omnino 
prsesidentem venerabilibus coUegiis." After reading these portions 
of the " Corpus Juris" (and others to the same efiect might be cited) 
It seems impossible to believe that the Rom^n law, such as the people 
of Holland and other European countries received it, treated gifts or 
bequests to x'eligious or charitable bodies as illegal. Unquestionably 
his orical proof may be found that some of the Byzantine Emperors 
endeavoured to repress the increase of the riches of the Clergy ; but 
their edicts for this purpose were not adopted or embodied in the 
great system of Roman Jurisprudence, as arranged and settled by 
Justinian : and it is this, the Roman law as settled in Justinian's 
time, which we have to look to in ascertaining the elements and the 
foundations of Roman Dutch law of after ages. We must go on to 
many centuries after the formation of the states of Mediaeval Europe 
out of the ruins of the old Roman dominions, before we come to 
regular Mortmain laws. In the 12th and 13th centuries. Sovereigns 
began to show practically by legislation their jealousy of the vast 
acquisitions of landed property, which the ecclesiastics had been 
gradually forming. In England, Magna Charta first restrained them. 
The Mortmain Acts of Edward the first were more explicit and 
rigorous. The meaning of the word " Mortemain", which we find 
under the variations of "Manus Morta," "Amortissement," " Mortifica- 
tion," and the like in the mediaeval Jurisprudence of Western Christ- 
endom, is thus explained by Lord Coke. " The lauds were said to come 
to dead hands, as to the lords, for that, by alienation in Mortmain, they 
(the lords) lost wholly their escheats, and in effect their knights' ser- 
vices for the defence of the-realm, wards, marriages, reliefs and the 
like ; and therefore it was called a dead hand, for that a dead hand 
yieldethno service." We will add to this the modem authority of Lord 
Brougham, who says in Giblett v. Hobson, 3 Mylne and Keen, 517, 
that the obiect of the Mortmain Acts was to prevent land from being 
placed extra commercivm, upon the feudal principle of protecting the 
lords againsthaving tenants who never died. We believe also that there 
is great force in the reasoning of Dean Milman (Hist. Lat. Christian- 
ity, vol. 5, p. 182) that " one of the objects sought by the Mortmain 
law must have been that the Crown should be less dependent on ec- 
clesiastical retainers in the time of War." Certainly other motives 
co-nperateil with those which have becnjustmentioned, in causing and 
in extending the operation of Mortmain laws. There was a desire 
to prpvent ecclesiastics from prevailing on dying landholders to will 
away the family properties. Duke Philip of Burgundy's rescript 
of tjie year 1446, (cited by Vott, page 249) is a striking proof of 



DISTRICT COOUTs. 65 I -r 

> July 8 

this. And laymen in general, though orthodox Roman Catholics, Mmtmain 
regarded with growing dislike the vast and c nstantly increasing ter- <^"^**- 
ritorial opulence of the clergy. But the feudal feelings which have 
been described, were the miiiu, the primary principles on which Mort- 
main laws were founded. We are accustomed to think of the Dutch, as 
they appear in modern history, as an eminently commercial nation, 
justly renowned for maritime enterprise, but by no mc£»ns conspicuous 
for martial or chivalric characteristics. But we must remember that 
long before the Dutch were independent, Feudalism had grewn up in 
the Netherlands as in the rest of Western Christendom. The Dukes 
of Burgundy of the house of Valois, and the Austrian Archdukes of the 
house of Hapsburg, who became for some centuries the rulers of those 
provinces, were genuine feudalists in dominion and in spirit. 
Above all, the Emperor Charles the Fifth certainly valued military 
power, knightly ascendancy, and royal privileges, as highly as did any 
of our Plantagenets : and the Emperor Charles the Fifth was the law- 
giver who enacted the principal Mortmain Statute of Holland. It 
■ is set out in Voet, book 28, title 5, section 3. It forbade the acquisi ■ 
tion by monasteries or other ecclesiastical ' bodies of immoveable 
property, or rents, or the like, in any manner, by means of wills, or 
donations or contracts. " Cautum ne ullo modo, ex testamentis, 
donationibus, contractibus, monasteria aliaque corpora ecclesiastica 
acquirant immobilia aut reditus aliaque similia, qute immobilibus 
accensentur.'" The subsequent Dutch legislation of 1592 and 1655, 
was a mere developement of this primary Ordinance. The develope- 
ment was far from immaterial, inasmuch as it brought moveable as 
well as immoveable property within the scope of the Mortmain law. 
But Voet describes the legislation of 1592 and 1655 as not entering 
on any new path, but as keeping in the footsteps of the Emperor 
Charles. " His Caroli Quinti vestigiis inhaerentes." Indeed on this 
point the learned District Judge says, (page 4 of his printed judg- 
ment) that "the Edicts of 1655, though specially directed against 
Roman Catliolirs, were a mere special developement of the old statutes 
of Mortmain, enacted by the Dukes of Burgundy and the Emperor 
Charles V of Holland, long previously.'" The case is now ripe for 
us to consider, whether the decision of this Court in District Court, 
Batticaloa, 9523, is a decision bearing on the present case, so far at 
least as the question of Mortmain law is concerned, and whether, as 
such, it ought to have been acknowledged as a binding authority by 
the Court below. We answer these questions in the affirmative. In 
that case a landowner had sold and transferred, for a sum of money 
mentioned in the Deed, a piece of land to the Church of St. de Croos 
ot Batticaloa. The plaintiff was the Presiding Rimian Catholic Mis- 
sionary at Batticak)a and Manager of this Church and property 



July 8 { *^^ ^^«^ "'•- 

Mortmain thereof. His title was disputed ; and the objection mainly urged was 
CISC. ti^at there was no Trustee named in the Deed. But the whole 
question of the validity of the contract came before the Court ; and 
in the considered judgment of the Collective Supreme Court are the 
following passages. " The Supreme Com't is of opinion that, according 
to the prevailing law and usage in this Colony, deeds in this form 
ad pios usus are valid." " The statutes of Mortmain do not extend 
to the Colonies of Great Britain ; and the Dutch Laws restraining 
donations of this description do not appear to have been acted on or 
enforced by the English Government in this Island." The learned 
District Judge of Colombo says, that the Batticaloa case is difiereut 
from the present one, because in that case the Church took by pur- 
chase, whereas here the claim is by bequest. But the Ordinance of 
the Emperor Charles V which is, as we have seen, the pith and 
substance of the Dutch Mortmain law, forbids ecclesiastical bodies to 
take by bequest, by donation, by contract or by any other -method. 
The subject of the Dutch Mortmain law's applicability to this Colony 
was fairly before the Supreme Court in the Batticaloa case ; it was 
carefully considered, and received a full adjudication. We ourselves 
should hesitate long before we over-ruled a considered and collective 
judgment of our predecessors : and we should be at least equally 
disinclined to sanction its reversal by an inferior tribunal. We have 
been led so far into the consideration of the present case, that we 
shall now complete it. We have dealt in chronological order with the 
old Roman Laws about Collegia, and with the Mortmain laws, proper- 
ly so called. Thirdly come the class of laws which we have called 
•' Penal laws," enacted in Holland during and after the war caused by 
the Reformation ; and by which the reformed Hollanders strove to 
extirpate Popery from their territories, even as Philip H, Alva, and 
other Roman Catholic statesmen and soldiers had previously striven 
to extirpate Protestantism. Toleration was almost unknown in those 
ao-es. If hinted at, it was regarded as a criminal feeling, which, 
showed the man who indulged in it to be at heart an infidel. The 
Dutch had embraced the tenets of Calvin, and with them his fierce 
hatred of Roman Catholics, whose ritual it was thought as sinful to 
tolerate in a truly Christian land, as it was sinful in the Israelites of 
old to tolerate the practices of Canaanitish idolatry.' To use the 
words of Froude, " Fury encountered fury, fanaticism fanaticism, — 
and wherever Calvin's spirit penetrated, the Christian world was div- 
ided into two 'armies who abhorred each other with a bitterness ex- 
ceedino' the utmost malignity of mere human hatred." Hence, and 
not from any motive connected with feudalism or political economy, 
came the penal legislation in Holland itself against the Roman 
Catholics, and also ihe separate penal legislation here in Dutch Cey- 
lon against the exercise of the Roman (Jatholic religion, against har- 



blStRlCt COtlRTS. 6V 



f July 



boUring tlonian Catholic Priests, and other matters mentioned in the Mortmaia 
District Court judgment. It has been argued before us, that those '^**^' 
local penal laws are to be regarded as confirming and extending here 
the old Dutch Mortmain laws. We do not think this. On the contrary, 
the very fact of this special legislation against Roman Catholics in 
Ceylon, shows that the ecclesiastical laws of the old country were not 
considered to be in operation here. But unquestionably these, laws of 
the Dutch in Ceylon, whatever may have called them into existencei 
would, so long as they existed, make illegal all bequests, donations 
and transfers, by contract or otherwise, in favor of Roman Catholic 
establishments. The analogy of the disabilities of the old " lUicita 
Collegia" would apply here, though the matter may be rested 
on the broad general principle that dispositions in favor of what the 
law has prohibited are in themselves illegal > But we consider that 
all these Dutch Penal laws against the Roman Catholics have been 
repealed under the English Kule here. Soon after the English 
obtained poi-session of the lately Dutch territories appeared the Pro- 
clamation of 1799, which in its clauses respecting religious liberty 
breathed the full spii-it of the justly praised Cornwallis Regulations, 
established five years previously in British India. The words of the 
Proclamation of 1799 that bear on our present subject are as follows : 
"And we do hereby allow liberty of conscience and the free exercise of 
Religious worship to all persons who inhabit and frequent the said 
settlements of the Island of Ceylon, provided always that they quietly 
and peaceably enjoy the same without offence or scandal to Govern- 
ment; but we command and ordain that no new place of Religious 
Worship be established without our license or authority first had and 
obtained." The pledge here given to allow liberty of conscience and 
free exercise of religious worship to all persons quietly and peaceably 
enjoying the same, was solemnly repeated by the Ordinance of 1835. 
The Roman Catholics have also special guarantees that, under British 
rule here, they are subjected to no penal liabilities and to no civil dis- 
abilities on account of their religion. They have these guarantees in 
the Regulation 5 of 1829, expressly declaring that the Act of 29 G. 
IV, c 7, (commonly called the Catholic Emancipation Act) extends to 
Ceylon. They have such guarantees more amply set forth in the 
Regulation 4 of 1806, which was by no means nullified by the Re- 
gulation 5 of 1829, and which retains its beneficial effects so far as 
regards its creation of rights and its abrogation of old penal laws, 
notwithstanding its being included in the recent Ordinance 5 of 1869. 
See especially section 1. The Regulation 4 of 1806 deserves to be 
cited in extenso. It is as follows : 

A Regulation for taking off the restraints which were imposed upon the 
Roman Catholics of this Island by the late Dutch Government. Passed by 
the Governor in Ceylon, on the 27th of May, 1806. 

It being His Majesty's most gracious intention, that all Persons, who in- 



July 8 



68 PART III.- 



Mortinain habit the British Settlements on this Island, shall be permitted liberty of 
case. conscience and the free exercise of Religious worship, provided they can be 

contented with a quiet and peaceable enjoyment of the same, without giving 
offence to Government. — And it appearing, that the Roman Catholics, who 
are a numerous and peaceable body of His Majesty's Subjects, are, by se- 
veral laws passed under the late Dutch Government, rigorously excluded 
from many important privileges and Capacities. And that, altho' these Laws 
have not been acted upon in all cases by His Majesty's Government, yet, 
that they are still unrepealed, and a cause of anxiety to those who profess the 
Catholic Religion, 

The Governor in Council enacts as follows. 

First. The Roman Catholics shall be allowed the unmolested profession 
and exercise of their Religion in every part of the British Settlements on the 
Island of Ceylon. 

Second. They shall be admitted to all Civil privileges and capacities. 
Third. All Marriages between Roman Catholics, which have taken place 
within the said Settlements since the 26th of August, 1795 according to the 
rites of the Roman Catholic Church, shall be deemed valid in Law, altho' 
the forms appointed by the late Dutch Governmennt have not been observed. 
Fourth. This Regulation shall take effect on the fourth day of June next, 
that day being His Majesty's Birth Day. 

Fifth. Every part of any Law, Proclamation or Order which contradicts 
this Regulation is hereby repealed. 

The second and the fifth clauses of this Regulation are the most 
important. That part of the second clause which admits the Roman 
Catholics to all " capacities" appears to us to be decisive of the 
question. A "capacity" for taking and holding property is a, 
" capacity" according to both law and common sease. If this Regu- 
lation only meant to exempt the Roman Catholics from penalties for 
exercising their religion here, the second clause must be looked on as 
superfluous. The first clause had already accomplished that object. 
Indeed, in that view,, the whole Regulation is a superfluity, as doing 
what had already been done by the Proclamation of 1799. We now 
come back to the Mortmain Acts proper, disentangled from the old 
laws about " Collegia illicita," and the comparatively modern Penal 
laws. We have now to deal with the general question " did the 
Dutch colonists of Ceylon, who established themselves here between 
1638 and 1 658, while they brought with them, as they undoubtedly 
did, the general Roman Dutch Law then prevalent in Holland, bring 
with them this portion also, — the Dutch Mortmain law of the 
Emperor Charles V, and its developements by the Edicts of 1655? 
The recent case of Tkurburn v Stewart before the Privy Council, 
reported in Vol. VII, Moore's P. C. C, (n. s.) p. 333, shews that 
there may be a question in our Courts as to what parts of the Roman 
Dutch Law were introduced by the Dutch settlers in. a Colony ; and 
also that the question is to be considered in the same manner in which si- 
milar questions have often been dealt with with regard to British colonists 
and with regard to questions of English Law. In Thurbum v Stewart, 
the question was whether'the Placaat of the Emperor Charles V of 
October 1 540, by which the claims of wives under marriage settlements 



DISTRICT COURTS. ^? I T Y 8 

were postponed to the claims of creilitors, is or is not in force at the Mortmain 
Cape. The Judicial Committee held that this Plaeaat had been in- '^^''^' 
troduced and was in force at the Cape : and they held this, having 
regard to the facts that the law in question affected commercial 
matters, that the Dutch were a commercial nation, and that their 
settlement at the Cape was mainly for commercial purposes. (See p. 
380.) Their Lordships found also that the assertions made before them, 
that this Plaeaat hud not been observed practii;aUy in the Colony, 
were wholly unsupported by evidence They had also proof that 
the Supreme Court at the Gape had, in a case decided in 185«, express- 
ly adjudged the Plaeaat to be in force in the Colony, and that from that 
judgment there had been no appeal. How different are the circum. 
stances of the present case ; except that the Colonists at the Cape and 
at Ceylon are of the same commercial stock. The law in question here, 
the Mortmain Law, is one hardly, if at all, connected with commercial 
matters. If it be said to be natural for traders ta wish that land should not 
be placed extra commercium, the answer is that the locking up of land in 
an old European country where the territorial area is small relatively 
to the amount of population, and is continually becoming smaller, is a 
very different matter from locking up portions of land in a new Colony, 
where land is abundant and is really the cheapest thing in the market. 
We cannot see that in this respect the case of Dutch Colonists differs 
at all fi-om the case of English Colonists ; and it has been repeatedly 
held that the English Mortmain Acts do not extend to any of our 
Colonies, whether settled or ceded ; and this because, in the words of 
Sir William Grant, " the object of the statute of Mortmain was wholly 
political. It grew out of local circumstances, and was meant to have 
merely a local operation.'' These words are taken from Sir William 
Grant's judgment in the Attorney General v. Stewart, i Merivale, 143. 
An attempt was made, in the late case of Whicker v. Hume, House of 
Lords Reports, vol. 7, p. 124, to procure the overruling of this case ; 
but the House of Lords distinctly adopted and upheld it. See also on 
this subject the judgment of the Privy ( ouncil delivered by Lord 
Brougham in Mayor of Lyons v. East India Company, 1 Moore's P. 
C. C, p. 175, If we look to the spec al facts of the twocases, we find 
here just the converse of the evidence which induced the Cmirt to 
regard the Plaeaat of Charles V as in force at the Cape. There, a 
judgment ., of the Cape Supreme Court in favor of the validity of the 
Plaeaat was cited ; and there was nothing to weigh against it. Here, 
the sole decision of our Supreme Court, that in the Batticaloa case, is 
express, that no Mortmain laws exist here. Above all, we have the 
iiTefragable proof given by the Ordinance 2 of 1840 of habitual, long- 
continued, positive and intentional acts, by great numbers of the com- 
munity, which would have been direct violation of the Mortmain laws, 
supposing such laws to have existed. The recital of the Ordinance 2 
of 1840 says, inter alia " whereas very extensive tracts of land through- 



Jutir 8 



to PAtlt lit.-- 



Mortmain out this Island are in the. possession, by succession-, purchase or gift of 
case. Religious communities." It is idle to discuss how or wherefore this 
Ordinance lost vitality, for want of Royal recognition within the ap- 
pointed time ; or what particular statesmen thought aboiit it. The 
sole fact is all important, that it did once come into legislative existence, 
and that it contained the recital b v the legislature which has just been 
read. Not a single instance has been produced, nor do we believe 
that any instance could be produced, of any human being in this Col- 
ony being proceeded against, civilly or criminally, for the breach of 
Mortmain laws. Not a single specimen of license of amortization 
granted by the Crown is forthcoming. Nay, though in this very case 
the Crown Offi cers have been noticed to defend the rights of the Crown, 
they take no action : the Crown disclaims its supposed privileges of 
licensing, it ignores this imaginary branch of its Prerogative, We 
think also, that we have a right to take in aid our own knowledge of 
the affairs of the land which we live in. Certainly we may take judi- 
cial notice iBWacts which may be.«,scertained from our own records. 
We know judicially that there have been disputes and cases, almost 
infinite, as to rights of rival parties under grants and bequests to reli- 
gious institutions : but we never before the present case heard the 
general validity of such grants and bequests called in question 
save in the Batticaloa case, which resulted in a judgment 
affirming the validity of such transfers. We have no hesitation 
in deciding that neither^ the Dutch nor the English Mort- 
main laws ever came into force in Ceylon : and we have already 
decided that the Dutch Colonial Penal Laws against Roman Catholics 
here have been repealed. It follows, that the whole of this order of 
the learned District Judge of Colombo is to be set aside, except so 
far ss it adjudicates against the claims of certain heirs under the in- 
tended entail by Clara Fernando's parents in the Will of 1 832. On 
this matter, and on the questions of prescription connected with it, we 
agree with the learned District Judge. We adjudicate, generally, that 
the bequests to the Churches, and the other dispositions of property 
for religious and charitable pm-poses mentioned in the case, are 
substantially legal and valid. Some of them may be at present prac- 
tically defective for want of Trustees or of proper schemes of Trus- 
teeship. We think that we had better make no order on these mat- 
ters, without hearing the express wishes ot the parties interested. 
We make it, therefore, part of this judgment, that, any party interest- 
ed is to have the right to apply further to this Court, and to suggest 
the names of Trustees and schemes of Trusteeship. Any order made 
on such application is to be Ireated as part of the present judgment. 
We also reserve Uberty to the Executor to make application to a Judge 
of this Court, under section 1 1 of the Property aud Trustees Ordinance, 
1871. None of the parties is to be blamed for the stirring of this 
question : none therefore will bear more than his own costs." 



DISTRICT CJURTS. 71 fjuLT 8, 

July 8. 

Present Ceeast, 0. J, and Stewart, J. 

D. C. Colombo, 58520.— The facts of this case and the ques- The Wolfen- 
tions of law decided in the Ooart below, are fally explained in dahl Church 
tlie following judgment of the learned District Judge {Berwick). ^^^^' 

This case is so complicated that it is not easy to state it con- 
cisely ; and for distinctness it will be necessary to divide it with 
respect botb to the parcels of land and the several defences, 
after a very brief summary of the origin and nature of the 
plaintiff's claim. One Abraham de Silva died in February 1850, 
^Pter having executed a Last Will in the following terms : 
*' After the death of me and my lawful wife, Anna Christina 
Corea, all the moveable and immoveable property with which 
the Lord has blessed me shall devolve on my son Johannes de 
Silva, and when the issue of my son becomes extinct any pro- 
perty that is in my name shall belong to the Wolfendahl 
Church,'' The whole of the lands in question belonged to the 
joint Matrimonial Estate of this Testator, Abraham, and his wife. 
His son Johannes died leaving a widow, but no issue, on 14th 
May, 1866. Abraham's widow died on 29th November, 1868, 
after having mortgaged her interest (which would be a 
moiety of the Matrimonial Estate) to the Ist defendant, Mathes, 
with certain provisions for payment to " the Charity Fund of ihei 
Wolfendahl Church" of the balance of the proceeds of the sale 
or appraised value of the mortgaged property, after discharge 
of the mort<!age debt. The plaintiffs sue as the Representa- 
tives of the Wolfendahl Church, and the ultimate object of their 
action is 1st to establish their title to one moiety of the lands, 
being what Abraham had power to dispose of by Will ; — his son 
having died without issue : and 2na, to obtain for the said 
Charity Fund the benefit of the clause in the mortgage deed by 
his widow. We now come to the necessary splitting of the par- 
eels of land and of the defences ; and the parcels will be describ- 
ed by the descriptive letters on the Plan filed with the 1st de- 
fei)dant's answer. On each parcel and claim a separate judgment 
ipust be given. 

Ist. Ae to the claim of the 1st defendant Mathes to the parcel 
marked A 1. His title to this is founded on a sale by Farate 
Biecntion in 1853 of the whole of A, [A 1 and A 2] for a debt of 
the Testntor Abraham to the Loan Board. At this sale, which 
was after the Testator's death, and after Administration to his 
Estate had been obtained by his son Johannes, the said son be-< 



Jflt 8. X ''2 r^KT HI— 

The Wolfen- came the purchaser, and withia three months sold the parcel 
dahlChuich^ 1, to this defendant. The points raised for decision are :— 
1st. The validity of the proceedings on the Parate Execution at 
which Johannes purchased, — which are impugned as both fraud- 
ulent and void in respect to essential form ; 2ad, the de- 
fendant's title by Prescription ; 3rd, the validity of a Bequest 
of Land to a Church. Two of these points are so novel and at 
the same time of such importance, that I shall be compelled to 
consider them at considerable length. 

1st. The validity of the purchase under the Parate Exeeution.— 
The precise question to be first determined on this part of the 
case is this :— Are proceedings under an order of Court allowing 
Parate Execution competent, when, before they are instituted 
and executed, the nominal defendant has been dead. Parate or 
Summary Execution is a Civil Law remedy for recovery of debts 
due to the Public Treasury, which was authorized to the Loan 
Board by Reg : 9 of 1824 ; and it proceeds on a warrant for exe- 
cution which issues from a competent Court of Justice without 
any previous suit or judgment : — in the words of the Gensura 
(Part 2, Lib, I, c. 33, § 32) nulla praecedente jvdicis sententia ; and 
As Toet expresses it, sic ut nulla modo opus sit lite pragma, sed 
simpliciter executio fiat. It is as nearly as possible identical, 
both in its nature and incidents, with the summary judicial pro- 
cess by which in Scotland debts due on Bills of Exchange are 
recovered by summary execution without previous judgment, or 
action, but has no counter part in the English Law ; for Cogno- 
vits or Warrants of Attorney to confess judgment, which ap- 
proach most nearly to it in their effect, pre-suppose a suit and 
a judgment for the debt, and correspond to the Voluntary Con- 
demnation of the Dutch and Scotch Laws. It necessarily 
follows from this description of the Process, that there is no 
citation of the debtor before the "Writ of Execution issues 
against his person and property, but if he has reason to complain 
that it has issued unjustly or illegally, he is not remediless ; for 
by both the systems of Law in which it exists— the Scotch and 
Dutch— he is entitled to a " Summons" {Sommatie is the Dutch 
word) before execution is executed, and he has then the right and 
opportunity to move to have it cancelled or withdrawn, pre- 
cisely as in the case of ordinary Writs of Execution. In 
the present case the Loan Board obtained from the Dis- 
trict Court of Colombo an order for I^arate Execution against 
the property and person of Abraham de Silva, and on this 
Writ the property in question was seized and sold by the 
Fiscal and purchased by the vendor to defendant. At the 



DISTRICT 00UBT3. 73 ( j^ g 

time the order was applied for, the debtor was dead, and had The WoUen- 
beea so for nealy three years. The Chuioh contends that the dahl Church 
order and all that followed on it were therefore nullities. °^^®" 
There can be no doubt of the general principle that a suit 
brought against a dead man would be a mere nullity in ordinary 
cases, and would in no way bind his Estate or Kepresentatives, 
unless they by some act on their part had homologated or ratifi- 
ed it, and thus disentitled themselves to take advantage of the 
defect. But the learned Counsel for the defendant contended 
that proceedings by Parate Execution are necessarily and from 
their inherent nature an exception to this Rule, and urged that 
there need not and cannot be any citation to the debtor before 
the order for execution is made, and that by consequence it 
matters not whether he is or is not in existence at the time. 
The argument is specious, but does not hit the right point. It 
is true that in such cases the law, tq) to a certain point, accords 
certain privileges to a certain class of public claims, and dis- 
penses with citation of the debtor and with any formal judgment 
against him before it AWARDS execution. But at that point, 
when execution has been awarded, the privilege of summai-y pro- 
cess ceases, and the proceedings in Execution proceed substan. 
tially as in ordinary cases. The real question is, therefore, can 
proceedings in execution go on when the debtor is dead and un- 
represented ? And in answering this, it must be remembered that 
there is no difference, except in detail, between tlie procedure 
under this execution and any other. In ordinary cases, a formal 
judgment has been pronounced ; in Parate cases, the judgment 
is dispensed with and taken as pronounced. From that point 
all substantial difference of principle or procedure ceases;— and 
the question may therefore be still further narrowed to this,— 
can execution in ordmary cases proceed when the defendant is 
dead or unrepresented. The question, perceived in this light, ad- 
mits, in my opinion, of no difficulty. It is odious enough to the 
general spirit of justice, that any one should be condemned with- 
out any form of citation, — but no civilised law that I know of 
has gone further and held that Execution is ever to be executed 
in Civil cases without the defendant, or those who represent him 
if he be dead, having, had some opportunity (either before or 
after judgment) of being heard and remedied. Consequently, in 
Ceylon, the daily practice,, when a defendant dies after judgment, 
18 to makfe his representatives parties to the suit and rule them 
to shew cause why execution should not be executed against the 
estate of the deceased: and this is in accordance with what is 
stated in Fan Lee»w«n'» Oommentai-ies. "And likewise,, accord- 



The Wolfen- ing to practice new letters of execution ought to be a{>pliecl for, 
dahl Church against the heii's of the persons condeamed who die before the 
execution" (Btiglish translation, p. 656 ;) and see also Vatiderlin- 
den, p, 425. In England, the rale seems to be the same with a 
difference. For although Baron Parke, in his judgment in ElUi 
V. Griffith, 16 M. all'd W. 109, and 10 Jurist, p. 1015 says, " it is 
Clear that, when a defendant dies after a writ of fi. fa, has been 
issued, the mandatory part of which directs the Sheriff to seize 
the goods and chattels of the defendant, whatever goods and 
chattels he had at the time of the teste of the writ [when he was 
alive] may be seized in the hands of his executors, exCfept bo fur 
as the Statute of Frauds has effected an alteration in favar of 
purchasers" ; — he afterwards shews that the rule is just the I'e- 
verse when the teste of the writ was after his death, and cites for 
this Thwo'nghgood's case. The Dutch Law required in all cases 
that the defendant should be ^ersowaZZy charged, to satisfy tlj« 
judgment within a certain time or to point out goods to satisfy 
it, before execution could be execwted against either person or 
property. " The first step in executi'on, (says Vander Lindm,) is 
Sommation, i. e. a summons in writing served by the Marshall oa 
the defendant, calling on him to comply with the" sentence withia 
24 hours." {Henry's Vander Linden, p. 484.) See also VanLeew 
wen's Commentaries, English translatioB, p. 662, and Lm-eni'a 
Civil Practice, p. 43 § 1. Similarly, our local rules in force at 
the time in question required that "m ewrj^ case of execution 
against property" the Fiscal should require the debtor to pay the 
amount of the writ or to point out and surrender sufficient uii- 
claimed property." The only difference (which was not oae 
substantially in principle, but only in detail) between ordinary 
and Farate execution under Dutch pl<aetice was, that in the 
former case two notices had to be served on the defendant after 
award of execution and before actual execution, calling on hioa 
to satisfy the amount of the judgment and costs, called respec- 
tively So^ivmatie and Renovatie (see Mr. Lorenz's valuable littl» 
book on Oiyil Praatice, p. 45 and the original authorities th«fe 
cited ;) while in the latter case, only the fifsb li'Otioe, Viz. th* 
£fomwitffie (Summons) is required. This ftpfiesai* from the censurlit 
Forensis, part 2nd, I. 33. 32, which affoixS* direct imthMity lor 
•what has just been stated, and gives ■oter 'evidetaee that aa esseii'- 
tial condition of the Dutch process of FiiVate filx^oution is, that 
the defendant should be noticed of it before it is easecuieditrnd thu» 
establishes that it could not be executed when the only defendant 
on the recoi'd is dead. It is there stated that imposts, &c,, "are 
recovered from debtors delaying payment, by Parate Execution 



DISTRICT COrRTS. 75 | t g 

without previous judgoaeat, -feoc vnodo that in the first place pub- The Wolfen- 
lioation be Blade wdrniag the debioia to pay within 24 hours, dahl Church 
and after this term for appearance in gyzeling is expired, the '^^^^• 
person and goods ai-e arrested in coaformity with the regulation 
of 3i8t March, 1588." Van Leeuwen in his Oommentaries (Eng. 
traus. 688) repeats the same thing in different words, indicating 
the aeoeBsity oi a demand of 24 hours, and then details the 
process by whicfe any one, who finds himself aggTieved by suoh 
Parate BxecutioOi may appear and oppose the same, and may 
not only impeach the mode of execution but may also independ- 
ently thereof, (no judgment having preceded in the said case) 
defend {assert, orig. bewereni the legality or illegality of the 
whole case with respect to the debt itself. These extracts 
abundantly prove, that th« Dutch Law was neither so unjust as 
to deprive a defendant of an opportunity ot being heard at some 
stage before execution executed, nor so absurd as to imagime a 
suit against a dead man, and an execution against the effects of 
a being who had ceased to be possessed of worldly goods. And I 
therefore hold that in process of Parate Execution, citation (/So»»- 
maUm) to the defendant is necessary, but that the time for sudi 
notice being given, instead of being before, or rather both before 
and aftOT ■execution is mvarded, is only bbfore the process is 
«cfaa% ^seecuted. Notice or Sommation being necessary, it 
follows that there must be some one alive to serve it upon; 
and oonsequ^itly, if the party concerned is dead, the wder must 
either lapse, or if catied out the prooediugs on it; are grossly 
iwegular, if not null. I do not think that the order oj the 
Dis^rid Cevirt in the case was ea; /aeie void, for the Court was 
not informed, (at least there is nothing on the record to show it) 
that the pa^rty against whom it issued its order was then dead ; 
but I hold that the proeeedings of the Meeal under the ord'er, 
*-in default of notice lo the debtor it alive or to his represen- 
tatives if he were dead, — wei-e void, or at ledst voidalble at the 
insbswce of any party injuriously affected by them where theif 
hammotheenivmlidly r^yfied •sv}>sequentl^, and tbat it was the 
daty'of the plaintiff in the case (*li«Loan Board) to 'have made 
the deceased debtor's representatives parties to the .prooeed-" 
ings in his rodm. Such an irregularity is not cured by the 
presumption<om)iia^rcBSMmiwi*»r «fe, for tile Sommation or citiiag 
of a delendant in parate execution is not a mere intermediate 
legal formality but ie essenitial and indispensable, and the pre- 
sumption is in this case expressly rebutted by the proof. See 
Taylor on Evid: 76. But the very exeeptaon of the case of a sub. 
ae^uentBatification, which I have mentioned, unfortunately startis 



July &. <■ ^^ PA"'' I"- 



'I 



The Wolfen- up to complicate the decision in this case, for it is a question whe- 
dahl Church ther the only party who had the right to be substituted as defend- 
^^' ant, or to be made the original defendant, viz. the son and ad- 

ministrator of Abraham's Estate, did not ratify the irregular pro- 
ceedings by his purchase under them. The whole legal estate had 
vested by our law entirely in him as the person who long before 
these proceedings were initiated,had been duly appointed adminis- 
trator cum testamento annexo, and he was therefore the sole legal 
Bepresentative of the deceased against whom the Process of 
Farate Execution should or could have been directed. He 
however was affected with notice of the proceeding, and not 
merely stood by and allowed them to proceed without objection,, 
but himself in bis individual (not in his repi'esentative) capacity 
became the purchaser of the property now in question at the 
Fiscal's sale, and as the vendor to the defendant is the person 
from whom the latter derives title. That he thus ratified thetn 
as far as he could in his personal capacity, can hardly be doubt- 
ed, and his vendee is entitled to the benefit of such ratification 
so far as it extends. Bid his acts have also the effect of a 
ratification in bis representative capacity, in which as adminis- 
trator was centred not only his own personal interest but 
those of the plaintiffs, as devisees under the deceased's will, of 
a contingent reversion ? For, on this must depend whether 
the plaintiffs are barred from now setting up the invalidity of 
the sale in execution. I think it did not. As administrator he 
had no power expressly to waive the defect in question, and his 
negligence or laches to the prejudice of the estate could hav* 
no greater effect. But in truth there is conclusive proof that 
he did not act in his representative capacity at all, but only in 
his private interest, and in fraud of his duties as Administrator - 
for he purchased the land for his personal use, and not for the 
nee of the Estate, — he got the conveyance executed in his owrir 
name, and with the connivance of the Loan Board's Proctor he 
moved for and obtained credit, to which he had no right what- 
ever, for the purchase money, which, went into his own pocket, 
or rather remained unexpended by him, as appears from the 
record ; and, although the Loan Board debt must have been 
in fact discharged by him or by some one, it is clear that it 
was not discharged out of the levy in execution, but from otheu 
resources, partly before and partly long after his purchase, and 
apparently, in part at least, from the proceeds of another sale 
which he made under the authority of the Court as Administra- 
tor. (See Documents D and E.) As a private purchaser, "it, 
was bis interest that the property ahould sell for as low a prict- 



BISTBICT COURTS. 77 f JtJLY 8 

as possible ; as Administrator, it was his duty that it should The Wolfea- 
fetch a9 high a price as possible. For under the obvious mean- dahl Church 
ing of his father's will, all the property which the latter °^^^ 
lelt was to be possessed by his widow during her life, and 
if the fee did vest in the son, it was subject to the condi- 
tion that, in the event of the failure of his descendants, 
what remained should then go to the Wolfendahl Church 
—now represented by the plaintiffs. By becoming purchaser at 
an inadequate price of any part of the property, the son would 
clearly both defraud his mother of the benefit of her usufruct 
protanto, and would anticipate the time at which he could law- 
fully deal with the Estate or diminish the quantity of the plain- 
tiffs contingent interest in the event of his dying without issue, 
—a contingency which actually happened : besides defeating 
wholly the reversionary rights of the Church, by becoming the 
fee simple and absolute owner, with the result that it is now 
claimed as belonging to his heirs In absolute property. That is, 
taking the most favorable construction of the "Will for him : 
but possibly the tes!;ator's intent was that the whole property 
should go undiminished in quantity to the Church, and the son and 
his descendants have only a fidei commissum in any part of it- 
In either view, his purchase for an inadequate price would be a 
clear prejudice to the beneficiaries under the Will — that is to 
say to the persons whose interests it was his duty as Adminis- 
trator to protect : and thus his private interest as purchaser so 
conflicted with his duty as Administrator, as to make hiS pur- 
chase fall within that class of cases which the law calls Con- 
structive Frauds, and in which it presumes an actual prejudice 
to others, unless, at least, it be plainly negatived. But in this 
case, the irregularity in the Parate proceedings ; — the omis- 
sion to have the name of any living man — (the Administrator's 
it should have been) placed on the record as defendant and 
debtor ; — and his own concealment from the Court, that the 
nominal defendant on the record was dead and that he was 
Administrator of his Estate— so plainly enabled him to commit 
an actual fraud on the Estate for his private benefit, that it 
would be very difficult to believe that he was not himself the 
instigator of the Parate Proceedings in collusion with the Proo- 
tor of the plaintiff in the Parate case ; and taken in connection 
with the latter having consented to. his receiving aredat for the 
pwrchase money, which ought in due course of business to. have 
gone direct to the Loan Board for its legitimate purpose of de- 
Iraying the debt for which the Execution nominally issued, 
strongly points to the whole business from first to last having 



July 8. ] '^^ "^^'^ '"•- 

The Wolfen- been a ' plant' to benefit him at the expense of the other parties 
dabl Charoh interested in the estate, and to enaWe him to defeat the will by 
'^^^^^ a judicial mummery. The Loan Board of eouree suffered no pre- 

judice, for its claim was disobarged ir^m other sources, not the 
proceeds ?ale of this property. Bat the Qontingent interests of 
the Oharjty were deliberately and intentionally sacrificed ; and 
that indeeid was the object of the whole devicp. Under these 
oircumstances, the fraud involved in the administrator's ratifiea^ 
tion of the irregularities in the process of Parate ExecutioB, 
rebuts the, argument advanced tor the defendant, that his con- 
duct had the effect of a ratification in his repres*ntativei capacity; 
and the original vital defect in these proceedings, in the non- 
sommatim of the debtor or his legal representative before execut- 
ing the 6rder for Parate Execution, remains unratified and un- 
oured, and these proceedings and all that followed on them, 
though done under the (unwitting) sanction of the Court, are 
void as agaiust the plaintiffs who would otherwise be prejudiced 
by them, 

2nd. As to the defendant's claim by Prescription, which 
was strongly pressed in his favour, I think his possession can- 
not avail him : for, the term of prescription only begins to run 
against persons claiming estates in remainder or reversion from 
the time when the parties so claiming acquired a right of poss- 
ession, which in this case was not till the death of Abraham's 
widow in 1868. Mr. Bias" argument, as I understood it, against 
the application of this rule was, that his client claimed inde- 
pendently of the Will of Abraham, the creator of plaintiff's 
reversionary right, and that by the purchase from the Jisoal 
(whether fraudulently or not does not matter] the property had 
ceased to be part of Abraham's Estate, and the legacy, had 
lapsed by failure of the subject of the devise before the date , 
when the devise was t;o take effect. This seems to me to come 
to reasoning in a circle, for the argument simply takes us back 
to the question already decided, whether thef iscal's sale did 
deprive Abraham's Estate of the property. But a fatal 
objeotioii to it is, that it would lead to this, that in every case, 
if a life-renter or afidei commAgsary under an entail chooses to 
sell the trust property, and afterwards happens to live for 10 
years, the purchaser from him would then prescribe against a 
reversioner whose right accrued on ih.&fidei eommissary's death: 
a view I think plainly opposed to the meaning of thts words yif 
the Ordinance. 

3, I now come to the last very important and somewhat re- 
condite question as to the Validity of v, Beqiieat of Limd to a 



DISTRICT CODETS. 79 f j^j^^ 8 

Churthf and have endeavoured to bring to it the consideration" The Wolfen- 
and caution in judgment which is demauded by a question which dahl Chuush 
Beemed at first to affdct such a, variety of creeds and templeS) ''*^®" 
Christian and un^Christiao, as exists in this community. Coun- 
sel have been twice heard on it in the present case^ and the 
question has been fully argued in another suit aflFecting the 
Boman Catholic Community. I have found however that the 
case of the plaintiffs, being that of a Church or Congre- 
gation adhering to the doctrines of the Reformed Presbyte* 
rian Church of Holland, is in a position very different 
from that which will make a decision in tha pending cases 
of the Boman Catholic Eequests, and of any others to reli- 
gious bodies known to the Dutch Law as tUicUa Collegia — 
(of which so many exist here)— considerably more complicated. 
This judgment will thei-efore not really decide the broadly stated 
question of the validity of a bequest of land to a Church, 
but the narrower question of the validity of such a bequest 
to a Reformed Presbyterian Church. Van Leemoen discusses the 
subject in the Censvra, Fart 1, Lib. 3, c. 4, and after 
having shewn at § 37 that under th« Ordinance of Hol- 
land of 4th May, 165S, no inhetitance or testamentary dis- 
position can devolve on Illicit Colleges, among which are in- 
elnded all sects and congregations not of the Reformed Church 
or not specially approved, recurs to the subject at § 44, where 
he specifies a series of Placaats from 1446 to 1531, under which 
it was formerly forbidden to bequeath immoveable property to 
Ecclesiastical persons and Colleges, and then adds " which pro- 
hihition however [i. e. that contained in these older Placaata 
prior to 16S5] is gone into disuse especially among the Reform- 
ed Nations:" by which however he does not mean that such 
legacies have become admissible ; because he goes on to give 
what is at once a reason and an explanation of his meaning, to 
wit that among the countries which bad adopted the principles 
of the Reformation, "no Eeclesiastical Colleges existed or aro 
permiUed, besides Hospitals for the Sick, Strangers' Homes, 
Orphan Asylums and other public colleges for the support of tha 
Poor, to which have been transferred all the property formerly 
intended for such superstitious uses (thought pious in those 
times) as Masses, Invocations of Saints, and the like." In Chap- 
ter YIII on Legacies, he considers how a legacy left generally 
to the poor (gwo rdhil Jreqiientius wpvd tws) is to be disposed of, con- 
eluding that since (noetrie moribvs) there are charitable institu- 
tions existing by special names, such a legacy will not go to any 
of these or other institutions of the same class but to the general 



J0LT S. 



80 PART 111 — 



The Wolfen- community of Poor. Voet is more ample and more explicit, and 
dahl Church at the risk of trenching on points only indirectly conueoled with 
the question immediately before me, it will be convenient to give 
the substance of what he says. In Lib. 28, o. 5, after stating the 
Civil Law (which does not immediately concern us) he proceeds 
at § 3 to enunciate the law of Holland to be (briefly) that Be- 
quests of Immoveable property to Churches and Monasteries are 
prohibited, except there be a special license from the Sovereign :— 
Following the policy of the Edicts of Charles V, of 1524 and 
1531, the Ordinances of Holland of 4th May and l4th October, 
1655, provided that neither openly, nor covertly by interposition 
of third parties, should any thing either moveable or immoveable 
be bequeathed monasteriis, ecclesiis pontificiis, monachis, moni- 
alibus, devotis virginibus, ollis saeris Bomanensibus alliisque simi- 
libus, and (besides certain penalties) that such bequests should 
devolve on those who would have succeeded to them. by the law 
of intestate Buccession." On referring to the text .of the Ordi- 
nances of 1655 given both in Dutch and Latin in the Censwra 
(3. 4. 37.) it will be seen that they equally extended to all dona- 
tions and colourable contracts for that purpose. These Ordinan- 
ces it is evident, were mainly directed against the Roman Catho- 
lics, but Voet proceeds to say" But other sectarian Colleges are 
also incapable among us of taking an inheritance or legacy when 
not especially privileged but only tolerated" ! — and then con?ea 
a, passage of great importance in its bearing on the present 
question. He applies the last remark to an inheritance be- 
queathed to the poor of the Anabaptist Sect (in doing which 
I may remark en passant that Van Leeuwen differs from 
him) (a) and he justifies this on the strength of the preamble 
to the Ordinances of 1655 which " prohibited that any property 
by any title or colour whatever should come into mortmain, unless 
ii is administered and governed by public authority." It will be- 
come necessary presently to apply this passage to the plaintiffs 
as the Consistory of the Wolfendfihl Church. The last words 
touch the point on which the decision of this part of the case 
turns. Voet proceeds § 4 to say " Nevertheless, among us and 
other Protestants, property whether moveable or immoveable 
may be lawfully left to the Orphan Asylums, Oerontooomiis 
(? Almshouses) and to the poor without obtaining an express 

(a) Censura, part 1. I. 3. 4. § 37 and Notes : Ibid, part 2. 1.. 10 § I* 
end Notes. Prom these authorities it seems that the Colleges or 
Communities of the Anabaptists and Lutherans were not included 
among IlHoita Collegia, and were not so much considered tolerated 
as allowed by Public Authority and a consent expressly given. 



DISTRICT COrRTS, 81 ( Jttty 8 

license, botk because such property is not, among us, thereby The Wolfen- 
relieved fn)m taxes and fiscal burdens, and also because property ''^bl Church 
belonging to the Orphan Asylums and similar institutions and to *'^^®' 
■ the poor is under the supreme care of the Magistrates themselves, 
altliough the [immediate'] Administration may be entrusted by them, 
toothers. The Ordinances of Holland and the Belgian Confedera- 
tion clearly indicite this when they forbid that any goods by 
any title or colour should pass into Mortmain unless they be go- 
verned and administered by public authority. And, among us, if 
property be left to Christ, or to a Uhubch, or to the Arch- 
angel or Martyr to whom the Church had been originally dedi- 
cated, the bequest does not fall to the managers of the Church, 
but rather to the Beacons for the use of the poor." He proceeds, 
with reference to legacies to the poor, to say that they will " not 
go to the Orphan House and similar institutions but in specie 
to the poor over whom, the Deaoons and other persons with simi- 
lar functions among us have the coiitrouL And if ihe poor 
generally are instituted [aa heirs] it is considered to mean the 
poor of the place where the tesDator had his domicile, or was 
born and educated and mostly had his relatives, if he appear 
to have had no fixed domicile." To these authorities I will adhibit 
an importantpassagefrom Groenewegen (de lef . abrog.) Code 1. 11. 
C. 15 § 4 " Attamen siquis in testamento aliquid in prohibitos usus 
reliquerit, non omnino corruit legatum, sed licitos usus em benigna 
interpretatione sustentatur et relicitum in similes, sed licitos 
usiis convertitv/r.- Ratio est quia in testamentis ^lenius volentates 
testantium interpretantur." i. e. If anything be bequeathed by tes- 
tament to prohibited uses, the legacy does not fail but by a 
favourable interpretation is sustained and the legacy is divert- 
ed to the Zi&e but lawfjil uses.. From these and' other authorities 
which will be fouud in Groenewegen^s treatise under the first 
12 titles of the 1st Book of the Code, I cooclude the Law of 
Holland in Holland to. be I. That dispositions of land in 
mortmain are unlawful except under special Jiceuse from the 
Soveieign. II. But that this liule (Joes not affect gifts or 
legacies to charitable Institutions, provided that the Institution ta 
which the legacy or gift is made be a Public Institution governed and 
aiministered by some Public Authority. III. Ihat no pro- 
perty, moveable or immoveable, can be beq.ueathed or other, 
wise alienated to any prohibited, unlawful or merely tolerated 
Beet or community (in which category the Wolfendahl Church 
certainly is not),. lY. Nor for what are known to persons of 
the Reformed Christian faith as Superstitious Uses. V. That 
if a legacy be left to a particular ' Church.' (as in this case the 



JULT 8, ] ^2 PART III 

The Wolfen- words are to ' the Wolfendal OhurchV it is intended to mean 
case ^^"'^°'' a legacy to the ^oor oonneoted with or sustained by the Deaoona 
or similar officers of such Church, and cannot be applied to 
the solemnities, repairs, salaries or augmentations of salaries 
or Clergymen's stipends, (cum moribus nostris pastores non ex 
rebus ecclesice donatis ant legatis sed aliunde alantvr. Qroenew : Coi. 
1.3Z.42§2n4.) Whatever local modifications may have been en- 
grafted or grown up in Ceylon on the Dutch Law as just stateff, 
either by custom or as the effect of the enactments by the 
English Government in 1799, 1806 and 1829,— there is no room 
to consider that such modifications are less favorable now and 
here to the fulfilment of a testator's or donor's obvious inten- 
tions, than what I have just concluded to have been the Lawof 
Holland in Holland, Questions may possibly arise as to whe'- 
ther here and now a legacy ' to a Church' would be construed 
necessarily as one to the ' Poor' only, so as to exclude Minis- 
ters' or Catechists' salary and Church repairs, &o., but it does 
not arise in the present case where the point for decision is the 
validity of the bequest and itof the manner of its ajopropriatioti,. The 
only question which the local differences of government, policy, 
and administration, leave room for is whether the funds of the 
Wolfendahl Church — (using the word churoli in the sense of 
congregation) — can be said to be governed and administeredby publio 
OMthorUy in the sen^e of the Dutch Law ? for if not, then and 
and then only would it become necessary to consider whether 
that element in Holland to tbe validity of the bequest, was Or 
is also a necessary element here. What is a Publio Authority ? 
What is a Public Institution ? questions which should be ap- 
proached rather with a regard to the wide spirit, than the restrict- 
ed application to the local circumstances, of the Roman rXutch 
Law in Europe. Of Public Institutions unquestionably man- 
aged by ' public authority,' namely by ovei-seers under the local 
Municipal ^Government, we have examples in the Poor Houses 
and Orphan asylums, &c., of Holland — and we know that there 
were similarly governed institutions in its Colonies, as appears 
from the legislation on the subject in the Statutes of BiUavia, 
as well as from our local knowledge of the Orphan hospital. 
Leper hospital, and Poor's fund of the Gravets of tliia ptaee, 
administered in the time of the Dutch by the GouTt of Dea- 
oonie, and afterwards by a Committee of S«pei"vi'sion appointed 
by the English Government. The Cburt is not aware whether 
in Holland there was any similar direat contitoul exeroiaqd 1^ 
the Civil Government over the temporal affairs of the Estab- 
lished Breformed Churches such as will presently ba shev^u to 



DISTRICT COTTRTS. 83 f j^j^^ 8. 

have ^^^^ exercised by it here, although probably a visible con- The Wolfen- 
nexion with and supreme allegiance to the State was main- dahlohuroh 
tained, as is done in the Sister OhuTch of Scotland by the ''*®®' 
presenceof the Queen's High. Commissioner and Representative 
in its Assemblies; but there can be no donbt whatever that the 
Deacons of these Churches were in Holland considered suffi- 
ciently in the light of Public Officers, having the care of the 
Poor, to make a legacy to them valid. Thus Groenewegen saya 
(p. 11 Code) " apied nos pauperunn owra ad Diaconos praecipwe 
ipectat — and at page 14 rerumqwe Ecelesiasiicarum, guhernatio ei 
eura non penes pasiores sed diaconos sit ut ex iis {donatis aut 
legoHs) pauperihws aUmenta praestomt." Then the manner of 
their election a-s described at the top of the same page 
shews that they were not appointed by the Cvail or Municipal 
authority: — nor did they render accounts to the Civil author- 
ity, in which respect they remarkably differed fiom the over- 
seers of the Orphan Asylums and other managers of public 
Charitable Institutions-. 8i hoe ad mores nostras referas, JDiaco~ 
ni preshyterio singiMs annis rationes reddunt ; Orphamatrophi 
aidein eoeterique piorum loaorum ceaonomi, a qixo creantur et cin 
gii^jaaent, Magistraim, <fec. Ibid, p. 12 [l 23.) See a,\.so Ibid, p. 11 
1. 2Ef § 2. I can hardly doubt therefore that in Holland (and 
there is no reason to think that the case was different under 
the Datch Government in this island), che ' Duacon's,' to whom 
the Care of the poor were largely relegated, not only were the 
iJeacons attached to theoongregations of the Reformed Church, 
but- thaA- they were moreover considered (doubtless in conse- 
qaence of that being the Established and State Church) to be 
vested with that official and public character wbich has been 
referred toi Whether the Deacons or corresponding officers of 
other Cfttwcfees,. whether prohibited^ tolerated or existing by con- 
nivance only, were recognised as holding the same public po- 
sition either in Holland or in Ceylon, calls for no opinion in 
{his case, but it is certain that the Dutch Government recoef- 
aiaedna other Chiuch in its East Indian Colonies than the 
' fieformed Dixtch C'kureo.', and did maintain an intimate- con- 
nexion both official and adnriiriaCntti^re with it, and with the 
Wolfendahl Church here in particular, which must ever make 
its rights in the acquisition of property stand on a basis re- 
markably distinguished, at least historically, and perhaps also 
legally, from that of any other Church or religious Community 
whatever. In thB Statutes of Batavia, and in both the old and 
new collections of these, enacted respectively in A.. D. 1642, and 
1746, the chapter entitled Gods Deinst en Kerleelyke Zaken which 



JtJLT 8. I ^^ 'ART III.— 

The Wolfen- means Divine Service- and Ohuroh affairs),, the &st enactment i» 
dahl Church as follows "Within these territories there shall be no other 
**^®* Keligion or Divine Worship practised — much less tanght or pro- 

pagated — eitlier secretly or openly, than that of the Reformed 
Church of the Christian Religion as taught in the (6) public 
Churches of tbe United Netherlands.. And whoever shall be 
found at an Assembly or Conventicle made or held by either 
Christians,. Heathens,, or Moors,, shall suffer forfeiture of all his 
or her goods and shall moreover be put in chains and banished 
or severely corporally paaished, according to the circumstanoea 
of each case." (c) Recently under the English Government, in 
what must be considered as having the authority of a State 
paper of considerable importance, dated 2nd March,. 1847, com-. 
municating to certain Memorialists the decision of Govern- 
ment on certain claims ef Episcopalians to the Wolfendahl 
Church,, the Colonial Secretary,, by command of the Governor 
Sir Colin Campbell, writes as follows :. " under the Dutch Go- 
vernment, the estahlishediorm of Christianity and the only forta 
of Protestantism prevailing in Ceylon was the Dutch Reformed 
Church." His Excellency then proceeds to give the following 
interpretation by his Government of the Capitulations, an in- 
terpretation which,, though not judicial,, commands all the au- 
thority of a state declaration. " The fimctions of these Corpora^ 
iions (the ConsistopiesJ were guaranteed by treaty at the succes- 
sive capitulations ofJaffna,Manaar^ Colombo,. Macura and Galle; 
and their powers and authority have not only remained nnal- 

(bj See Note A as to Lutherans and Anabaptists. 

CcJ The Dutch text which I have translated, as above is subjoined. 
Bimnen deze jurisdiciie sjdlen geen andere Gods-dienstin ofte Religien 
g'ceffend — veel min geleered ofte iioortgeiAant uerden 't ey in het heyme^ 
lyhe of openhaar als de Protestwntsche Christlyhe religien gelyhe die in da 
publiclce kerke iiam de- vereeuigde Nederlanden ' geleerd warden i en zo me 
bevonden zal warden eenige byzondere by-een leomsten ofte cpnveniiculeen 
gemaakt ofte gehouden tehebben 't xij Christen Heyden ofte Moor, zal boven, 
vebeurte ■uan. alle %yne goederin in de ketiing geklonken uyt den lande 
gebannen ofte wel aan lijue ofte lij)!en gestraft warden iMt gelegendheiA, 
iian zaken."' There is no doubt that thfl Batavian Statutes did have 
both judicial and political authority in Ceylon, though the preciaa 
nature and extent of that au.thority is (as yet) somewhat obscure. 
Their legislative force in this Island (which was under the adminis- 
tration of the Governor General and Council of Netherlands India at 
Batavia),is tolerably manifest from the fact that in the Index to the 
Legislative Acts of the Dutch Government,, appended to the first 
■wolume of the edition of our Ordinances published in 1853, vfill be 
found a Notification repealing the 16th article of the Statutes of Ba-- 
tavia in a. matter respecting tbe Sale of Slaves for debt to non- 
Chi'istiasS' 



SDlSiarOT COTJEtg. 80 j jpj^^ g 

teVed "hj any act of the British Goremment, bat have been The WoUen- 
.formally recognised in official intercourse from that time to the ^^^^ Churdi 
present. By the articles of those Capitulations entered into 
between the English Commanders and the Dutch Governors of 
the various -Forts, and subsequently confirmed by the Supreme 
Authority, the British nation guaranteed to the inhabitants the 
free exercise of the reformed religion as practised in the Dutch 
Vhurch i promised the continuance of the Clergy and other eccle- 
Biastical servants in their functions ; granted tbe Churches for 
the usual Divine Service, and tooli v/pon itself the payment to 
(hem of the same pay and emoluments as they had from the Dutch 
East India Company : conditions which have been faithfully ob- 
served to the present day, the Consistories of Galle, Matura and 
Jaffna being equally respected v^ith those of Colombo." I now 
proceed to enumerate several proofs of 'direct controul exercised 
by the Civil Government over the affairs of the Consistory of 
fee Wolfendahl Church, such direct controul, even in its internal 
affairs, as seems to me to bring that body completely within 
the exception stated by Voet, when he says in the passages 
already cited and italicised, that the Ordinances of Holland 
forbid dispositions in mortmain to any institutions unless iheij 
are governed and adrmnistered by public authority although the 
administration be entrusted (deputed) to others. (1) The Wol* 
fendahl Church is inscribed on its portals with tbe cipher of the 
late Dutch Government °V°, standing for " Voor Oest Com-, 
pagnie." (2) The Civil Government was represented in the 
Consistory by its own Commissioner (d) (styled Commissarius 
Politicus) a functionary analogous doubtless to the Queen's 
High Commissioner who represents the State in the Sister Church 
of Scotland ; an appointment which was continued under the 
English Government down to at least the year 1817. In a letter 
from the Chief Secretary to Government dated 21st January^ 
1817, the President of the Consistory is informed by directions 

(iJ) In the Dutch times, we have instances of this functionary beiupf 
mentioned in 1683, 1752, and 1789 (see Appendix XVIII, p. 33 of Pa- 
• pers presented to Parliament respecting the Wolfendahl Church). 
In the English times we have examples of appointments of a Go- 
vernment Commissioner to the Consistory in the cases of Mr. Sawers, 
appointed by the Governor " Commissary Politic'' on 4th August, 
1807 (Tbid p. 34) : the Honorable and Eevd. Archdeacon Twistleton 
in 1817 (Ibid p. 13, and 24) and subsequently Mr. Armour and Mr. 
Bisset in the same year. The letters of the Secretary of Government 
to the President of the Consistory, intimatiugr that the Governor had 
made these last appointments, are respectively dated 13th January 
and 12th April. 1817, and are printed in the sam» Parliamentary 
Papers, p. 13. 



JffLT S. ] ^^ *'-^«* I"'- 

Tlie Wolfen- of the Governor " ttat the proeeediinga of the Duteh Conais- 
dahl Church tory are to be recorded in the Eagldah language, in order that 
^^' a copy may be furnished for tlje inforqiation oi ■Croverntnent 

through Us PoliUeal Agent." (e) (3) The Consistory reported 
its affairs annually to the (Government oi the Dutoh East India 
Company at Amsterdam ; two examples of which reports, dated 
respeetively 1750 and 1758, are given in the papers presented 
to Parliament respecting the Wolfendahl Church (/). (4) The 
names of the elected amembers of the Consistory, Elders and 
Beacons, were isubmitted for the approval of the Government 
before their ordination or appointment, both and#r the Dutch 
and subseqjiently under the English rule ; {g) and it is stated 
by the Consistory in their communication to Goy.eram,ent of 26th 
March, 1849, that this practice " is voluntarily observed up to 
this day," {%) though they there endeavour to give the practice 
a colour quite ineoneisteut with the sense of the evidence already 
cited. («) (5) Government appointed the Minister and President 
of the Consistory [j) ; and sanctioned the ordination of Clergy, 
men (&) ; gave permission for the erection of escatejacons in the 
Church (J); paid the salaries of the Church servants and other 
Church expenditure (m) ; and defrayed the expenditure and 
eowtnuuleol the disposal of the moneys coUeeted at Divme Sendees 
and for interments, &&. (mjI. These facts, resting on oUci^l copies 
of documents the accuracy of which cannot seriously be ques- 
tion«d, show how searching and minute was the superior cod> 
troul exercised by Government — the Public Authority— over the 
affairs of the Wolfendahl Church even in English times ; and 
it only remains to cite similar evidence, which, while it accu< 
mulates proof to the same effect, is now especially noticed in ooa« 
nection with the public and official functions of the Consistory 

(e) IMd, p. 15. 

(/) Ibid p. 41 and 30. 

Cg) Letter from the Consistory, 3rd September, 1804. Ibid p. 67. 
Minutes of Meeting of the Consistor;, 24th September, i7S7, and 
10th January. 1799 (Ibid p. 36.) Letters from Secretary of Govern- 
ment to Consistory, aSth February. 1803. (Ibid p. 32.^ 

(fe) Ibid p. 25. 

(i) Ibid p. 67 (3rd September, 1804.) 

IS) Ibid p, 69 (Copy Commission under the seal of the Colony 
dated 1812.) 

(fc) Ibid p. 67 (March 1805.) 

(I) Colonial Secretary's letter, 16th May, 1805. Ibid p. 68. 

(m) air Colin Campbell's Despatch already cited. Ibid ?■ 74. 
Minute of Consistory Meeting, 20th June, 1776. (Ibid p. 31.) 

(m) Letter to Chief Secretary to Oovernmeut and hw reply, 2SrO 
and 28th February, 1803. Ibid p. 31 and 32. 



SlSTElCr C0UET3. 87 Jju^y 8> 

ts Adifiiflistratov of the TvbUc Poor Fund or ' Deaconie,' ailso The WoUen- 
bowever subject to the controul of Government. In 1758 the dahl Church 
'Consistory address the Dutch Gavernor, suggesting means for 
the improvement of that fund and request His Excellency's in- 
structions. The Governor replies and, inter alia, fixes the pay- 
ments and conditions on which corpses may be interred within 
the Church : the payments are to be for the benefit of the ' Dea- 
conie' ; the conditions are special permission to be asked and 
granted in each case by the Governor ; — and similar provisions 
were made in 1795 by a Resolution of the Council of Ceylon for 
the benefit of the Deaconie fund (o). In January 1803, by the 
d'esiie of the English Government, the funds of the Deaconie 
(Poor fund) and the Leper Hospital with the books and papers 
relating thereto were delivered over to a body called the 
" Committee of Supervision" (jp). Previously the [Church] 
collections and burial charges went to the General Poor Fund 
of the Giavets, which were administered by a Court (now by the 
Cutoherry) composed of the Deacons of the Consistory (g-); 
Fnquestionably at the present day the interference of the Civil 
Government with the internal afi'airs of the Wolfendahl Church 
and the Colombo Consistory has slackened;pr become only nom- 
inal, if it exists at all : and unquestionably also the affairs o£ 
the General Poor of the City are not now administered by it, (nor 
for that matter by the Government either) bat it seems to ma 
that in point of law there is nothing in these facia which has 
h-ad the effect of either formally or by legal implication destroy- 
ing the public character and status of that Corporation which 
have been so abundantly illustrated : and it does still possess 
a fund from which the poor, if not of the City generally, at 
least of the Congregation, are maintained or assisted, aad that 
fund must be considered in the light, to some extent, of a con- 
tinuance of the fund which ever since the establishment of the 
Consistory has been administered by its Deacons. Whether or 
not, either by the operation of a tacit law of Disuetude, or of 
recognition by the State of other Church Communities, and 
obiefly in virtue of the legislative enactments of 23rd September, 
1799, 4 of 1806, and 5 of 1829 this may or may not have ceased to 



(o) Ibid p. 3b. 

(p) Minutes of Consistory Meeting, 4th February, 1803. Ibid p. 32. 
Letter from President of Consistory to Government, 18th May, 1821. 
Ibid p. 12, 13. 

1(2) Ibid p. 24. 



July 8. ' ^^ ^^^^ ™-- 



,.} 



The Wolfen- bear the character of an exclusively established Chnreh (that is 
dahl Church ^^ g^y established by law) it is unnecessary for the Court to 
Bay in its present judgment ; but I consider that no answer which 
could be given to that q.uestion would derogate from the legal- 
rights of the Dutch Reformed Church in Ceylon or of the 
Colombo Consistory in the acquisition of property,, rights onoe 
acquired and never either abdicated by themselves nor formally 
witbidrawn by the Legislature, Finally it may be observed that 
as by the Civil Establishments Ordinance 1 of 1871 the salary 
of the Minister of the Wolfendahl Church ia paid by the Civil 
©ovei'nment,. he is therefore a Pviblic Servant and his Church a 
Public Institution,, recognised and sanctioned and pro tantoi 
maintained by the Legislature under a very recent Act :. — a ciiv 
eumstance additional to the I'ecognition,. sanction and mainte-* 
nance guaranteed by the Dutch Legislation, by the Treaties of 
Capitulation, and by the acts of intimate controwl and govern- 
ment exercised by the Supreme Public Authority under the- 
English rule. Its peculiar and intimate relations with the Civil 
Power and with the State tefere,. at and sinee the British acces- 
sion make its legal rights stand (I repeat} on a basis remarkably 
distinct from those of any other religious Community in the 
maritime provinces,, and are the special grounds of the present 
decision : but I make this observation without the least purpose 
of prejudging the legal rights and capacities of other religious 
Communities,, whether Christian or Unchristian,, which must he- 
decided as they arise,, and which may probably req.uire to be 
decided on different and more general grounds. What has been 
said makes it needless to discuss the argument of Counsel foir 
the plaintiffs, that the legislation of Holland on this subject was 
only local in its nature;, or,, if otherwise, that it had by long 
Disuetude ceased to be law here. The plaintiffs,, the Consistory 
of the Wolfendahl Church, are, or at leiist include, the Deacons 
of it, the officers specially charged with the care and support of 
the poor immediately connected with the administration of this 
Public Institution, and are therefore rightly the suitors for 
this bequest : which bequest is now declared valid, being a 
bequest to an Institution which for the reasons given is, I think, 
one ' administered hy public authority in the sense in which 
that expression is used by the Dutch Lawyers in such a case- 
The opinion in the last paragraph further disposes of the objec- 
tion taken by the defendants'' Cuuinsel at the further hearing on 



DISTEICT COURTS. 89 f J-pi,Y S. 

18th April, founded on the alleged want of title in the plaintiffs The Wolfen- 
to represent the ' Wolfendahl Church' in the present suit (r). dahl Church 



case. 



II.— As to the Parcel A 2 and the claim of Zrd defendant. 

The other portion of A, maiked A 2, is in its turn attempted 
to be split into two, whereof the 3rd defendant claims the one 
undivided nioioty as Attorney of Sophia Dias» the widow of 
Johannes, and ascribes title in the other moiety to Johannes' 
mother as his heir, or rather to the Snd defendant as the ad- 
ministrator of her Estate. The latter has been sued but has- 
not pleaded. This claim depends on the validity of the purchase 
of the whole parcel A by Johannes under the proceeding in 
Parate execution. It having been held that those proceedings 
were invalid, both for fraud and for inherent defect in essential 
form, and that Johannes therefore took no title under them^ it 
follows that his widow and mother could take no title under 
him, and in this and all other respects A 2 must follow the 
judgment as to A 1. It will therefore be decreed that the whole 
of the Testator's interest in the parcels A 1 and A 2, that is ta 
say an undivided moiety of the whole of A, is the property of 
the plaintiffs, as representing the Wolfendahl Church, who are en- 
titled thereto under the Will of Abraham de Silva i— the other 
tindivided moiety of A being the property of his widow at the 
time of his decease by virtue of the matrimonial Communia 
Bonontm. The claim of the 3rd defendant,, personally or as at- 
torney of Johanna Sophia Dias, to any part of the lands in liti- 
gation in this suit will be dismissed. 



III. — As to Parcel B, claimed by 1st defendant. This is claimed 
by the Ist defendant by purchase in execution on a judgment 
obtained by him against Anna, the Testator's Widow, on a Bond 
and mortgage executed by her in his favor on &th June, 1867, by 
which she mortgaged this particular parcel with certain special 
clauses in the deed pioviding tor payment of the surplus value 
of the land to the ' Charity Fund' of the Wolfendahl Church r 
after discharge of the Bond debt the land to be appraised by 6 
persons and sold for this purpose, with right of pre-emption to 
the creditor at the appraised value. Now, the first point to be 

(r) The plaintiffs on the record were "The President and Mem- 
bers of the Consistory and the Trustees of the Dutch Wolfendahl, 
Church, genevallj known as the WolfendahlChurch.'" 



J^tT 8. ] ^<^ PART tn 

The Wolfen- remarked on as to this parcel is that Abraham's Wide* had ha 
cas*^ '^'^"'^"'^ title to more than an undivided moiety of it (which she had by 
virtue of the Commhunio Bonorum) and the mortgage and sale 
in execution is void for the excess, which for the reasons al- 
ready given belongs to the plaintiffs as devisees under Abraham's 
Will, and will be decreed to them accordingly, and the 1st de- 
fendant's claim thereto dismissed. The sale under the Writ in 
case 54961 will be eancelled pro tanto. The next point that 
requires observation is that, although the 2nd defendant in his 
answer professes to accept an offer of the plaintiffs for appraise- 
ment of Lot B and to pay them the value thereof minus the 
amount of the widow's debt to him, — the plaintiffs in fact have 
made no such offer. Tbey prayed in their libel for appraise- 
ment not of B only, but of the whole of the widow's moiety in 
all the lands, which is quite another thing, and therefore the 
Court is not able to arrive at the summary settlement which 
would have saved it so much trouble in unravelling the rights 
of parties. Again, the plaintiffs, when so praying, evidently 
considered they were only praying for implement of the clause 
in their favour contained in the widow's bond to 1st defendant t 
• — but the bond being now before the Court cmd also the survey, in- 
spection of the two together shew that the plaintiffs were mis- 
taken in this supposition, — for the Bond only affects the parcel 
B and not the whole land. The Court must therefore proceed to 
determine the legal rights of parties. These would have been 
very simple had they not been complicated by the acts of the 
parties and the omission to execute the terms of the Bond at 
the proper time. The Bond, (whicli is a curious medley of Bond 
and Last Will) contained what amounts to a covenant with the 
creditor, that if the debt should not be discharged during the 
debtor's lifetime, the land was to be appraised and taken over 
at the appraised value by the creditor, who was to pay the same 
to tbe charity fund of tlie Wolfendahl Church under deduction 
of the amount of the debt, namely £250 ; then come the follow- 
ing testamentary words ' should this not take place so during 
nay lifetime, then my heirs, executors or administrators shall 
fulfill the same,' the rational and plain meaning of which (though 
the object is expressed in hazy language) is that, if the debtor 
shall not during her lifetime have redeemed the mortgage and 
given tbe surplus value of the limd to the charity fund, then her 
Executors, &c., are to do so. It has been said that the creditor 
by having,— after the debtor's death, and in connivance with 



1>isi;rict courts. 91 f t 

itlfe administrator of her estate, the pi'esent 8nd defendant, who The Wolfen- 
tias wilfully abstained from pleading, — wilfully omitted to dahlChurck 
■carry out the covenant with him, and in departure therefrom **se. 
taken judgment and execution on the Bond in case 54961 and 
managed to purchase the property himself at a nominal value at 
a Piscal's sale, under writ in that case, has thus defrauded the 
charity fund. I entirely take this view, and consider the pro- 
ceedings in 54961 a fraud on that fund, carried out by ooUusion 
between the plaintiff and defendant in that case, who were res- 
pectively the creditor and the administrator of the debtor's estate. 
I have already decided that the sale in Execution must be set 
aside to the extent of an undivided moiety for want of title ia 
the execution debtor. I now decide that the whole sale must be 
get aside for collusive fraud on the charity fund which was not 
honestly Tepresented by the Administrator, who to-day keeps 
back from entering an appearance in the present action. The 
ist defendant's right to a mortgage or charge on the same for 
£250 will be protected, and provision made for carrying out 
tbe covenant in the Bond. I may note that another collusive 
fraud in this part of the business was judgment being taken 
and suffered for Interest where none was due. 



The result of the examination the whole case has now under- 
gone, has been to shew a deliberate, protracted, and compli- 
oated conspiraicy for 21 years by every person who by any pos- 
fiibility could lend a hand in it, to de&aud and cheat the Charity 
Tepresented by the plaintiffs, and to defeat the charitable dispo- 
sitions made first by Abraham and afterwards by his wife ;— 
that conspiracy being for the benefit of persons who are neither 
kith nor kin to either of them. The result of the conclusions I 
have arrived at on the various parts of the case and now to be 
brought together into one comprehensive decree is as follows; 
Judgment to be entered for the plaintiffs for an undivided moiety 
of the whole land in litigation comprised in the Parcels A 1, 
A 2, and B on the Figure of Survey filed with the 1st defendant's 
answer ; their title thereto being under the will of Abraham. 
As respects the other undivided moieties of the parcels A 1 and 
A 2 (which were not claimed by the plaintiffs) claimed respec- 
tively by the 1st defendant on his own behalf, and by the 3rd 
defendant as Attorney of Sophia Johanna Dias, the widow o£ 
Johannes de Silva, it is clear that they belong to the Intestate 
£»tate of Anna Christina, Abraham's widow, and the said claims 



JrLT 8. f 52 PAET iir.- 

The Wolfen- of the 1st and 3rd defendants are therefore dismissed. Aa 
dahl Church regpgQJjg the remaining moiety of the parcel B (the whole of 
®^^®' which was claimed by the 1st defendant) it also belongs to the 

Estate of the deceased "Widow of Abraham de Silva,.and it will 
be decreed to belong to it,, subject to the provisions of the Bond 
and Agreement dated &th June, 1867 : and the claim thereto oi 
the 1st defendant will be dismissed. And in order to carry 
the provisions of the said Bond and Agreement into effect, it 
will be further ordered that such moiety be appraised by six 
competent persons (to be appointed by tbe Court) ; and on pay-, 
ment by the 1st defendant to theplaintiffs of the excess, if any,. 
of such appraised value,, over the sum of £2 50, the 2nd defend- 
ant is to execute a conveyance thereof to the 1st defendant.. 
Should the excess (if any) of such appraised v alne not be paid 
to the plaintiffs by 1st defendant within one month after notice 
of the appraisement being filed in this case,.his right to a convey- 
ance is to cease and determine,, and the same is to be adminis-- 
tered and sold in ordinary course by the 2ad defendant as Adr 
ministratov of the said Intestate Estate, subject however to a 
first charge in favour of the 1st defendant for £250, and to the 
claim of the plaintiffs to the balance of the pr oceeds sale. The- 
sale in Parate Execution in Case No. 173^3^ and the sale in, 
Execution in case 54961 of this Court are set aside and cancelled.. 
The claim of the plaintiffs to mesne profits, damages, and in- 
terest is reserved. As respects the costs of this suit, the- 
2nd defendant^ having failed to plead and in so doing failed to. 
discharge his duty as Administrator, will pay his own costs (if 
any) personally and not out of the Estate he administers.. The 
1st and 3rd defendants, having either wholly or substantially 
failed, will also pay their own costs. The costs of the plaintiffs, 
will be paid by the 2nd defendant (personally) and the 1st and 
3rd defendants jointly and severally,, and any deficiency will be 
paid out of the Estate administered by the 2nd defendant. 



In a/ppeal, the Queen's Advocate, (Bias with him), appeared for 
list defendant and appellant, and Ferdinands for respondents. 

Pee Stewart, J.—" The Supreme Court is of opinion that 
the conclusion arrived at by the learned District Judge is 
correct, and that the decree should be afiii med. As respects, 
the question of mortmain, it is unnecessary to enter upon that 
point in the present case, the general question,, including that 



DISTRICT COUETS. 93 f J^.j^y 9 

lEVolved in this Buil:, being fully considered in the judgment The Wolfen- 
delivered by the Supreme Court this day in the testamentary ^^^^ Chuuoh 
case, D. 0. Colombo, 3627. {sj In confirming this decision °^^^' 
the Supreme Court desires to state that, though holding 
the sale under the proceedings in the parate execution case 
to be invalid, the t^upreme Court does not think there is 
sufSoient ground for concluding that the purchaser, the 
administrator and only child of the deceased owner, when 
he bought the property in 1853, (apparently with the as- 
sent of his mother) intended to act dishonestly and fraudu- 
lently ; much less that there was any such intention on the part 
of the Proctor who obtained the parate execution, aod who, for 
anything that appears to the contrary, was not aware of the 
provisioHS in Abraham's will. The District Judge ia in error in 
stating that the sale to the 1st defendant was efiected within 
three mouths of the purchase by the administrator. That pur- 
chase was in 1853. The sale to the 1st defendant, a much more 
questionable proceeding, did not take place for ten years after,, 
until 1863. It is scarcely necessary to remark that, if the ven- 
dor to the 1st defendant had had issue, a i-esult which might 
have nntnrally been expected in 1853, the right of the Wolfen- 
dahl Church would not have accrued. Moreover, it is difficult 
to conceive that the idea of defrauding such distant aud contin- 
gent reversioners could have entered the purchaser's mind. It 
was contended on behalf of the 1st defendant, that he has ac- 
quired a prescriptive title, the purchase by his vendor, (th& 
administrator), dating so far back as 1853, The obvious and a 
sufficient answer to this argument is afforded by the fact that^ 
notwithstanding that the administrator divested himself of the 
character of administrator and then commenced a personal and 
independent possession, by the provision in Abraham's Will,. 
Creating a contingent right of reversion in the Wolfendalil 
Church, the possessor must be deemed to have held subject to 
such reversion. Abraham's son did not die until 1863; the 
widow, who had a life interest, not until 1868, — from the death 
of neither of whom have ten years expired to the institution 
of suit." 



July 29. 
Present Stewart, J. 
■D. 0. Kandy, 58553. This was an action for goods sold and Contempt. 
delivered. Defendant pleaded not indebted, and in his eyami-^ 
(s) See ante, p 5,9. 



nation denied that he had ever purchased any goods from plain» 
tiff. In the course of the trial, the Court adjourned for half an 
hour, at the request of defendant's Counsel, to enable his Proc- 
tor to examine plaintiff's books. On the case being again called. 
Counsel stated that he had no defence to offer. Whereupon the 
learned District Judge held as follows : " The defendant has 
been guilty of a most impudent attempt to evade a just debt 
by setting up a false defence. His statement as a party is false, 
and I aoooi'dingly, by virtue of the power given to me by the 
29th section of the Rules and Orders, * forthwith sentence 
him to imprisonment at hard labour for a period of two calen- 
dar months for making a false statement when under exami- 
nation as a party to a suit. Judgment for plaintiff as prayed 
with costs." 

In appeal, per Stewart, J.—" Set aside as to the sentence 
parsed upon the defendant and appellant. The appellant should 
have had an opportunity of showing cause. The Supreme 
Court has held that in the District Court as well as in the Po- 
J. lice Court a party should have an opportunity of showing cause 
before he is punished-. The provision in the District Court 
Bules that * the Court shall and may forthwith sentence such 
party, etc,' must be taken to mean subject to giving him oppor- 
tunity to exculpate himself. See judgment of the Supreme 
Court in District Court, Negombo, 5648, May 30, 1873." 



August 5. 

Present Catlet, J. 
deceiving t). C. KegaUa, 165. A conviction and sentence of twelve 
stolen Cattle, months' hard labor and 20 lashes by the District Judge (Main- 
warm^) against one of three defendants charged with Cattle 
stealing, were set aside in the following terms ; — " Set aside 
and 3rd defendant found not guilty. He is charged with unlaw - 

* " If such party shall in his answers to such questions, or to any 
questions which may be put to him, either at the commencement or 
in the progress of a suit, state that which the Court shall be satisfi- 
ed by other evidence is false, or if he shall by evasive, contradictory 
or prevaricating answers, attempt to deceive or mislead the Court, 
and the Judge and two of the Assessors be satisfied that such was his 
intention, the Court shall and may forthwith sentence such party , to 
euch punishment as shall be considered adequate to the nature of^e 
offence, taking into consideration always that there has been no vio- 
lation of the sanctity of an oath and mitigating such punishment 
accordingly." — Rules and Orders, Part 1, (Civil Jurisdiction) p. 68. 

t 



blSTKlCT COTTETS. 95 

fully receiving a stolen buffalo, and has been found guilty and 
sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment and 20 lashes. It 
appears by the evidence that the 1st and 2nd prisoners, who 
have been found guilty of the theft, were seen driving the animal 
away, and that subsequently all three prisoners were seen stand- 
ing near the animal, which was tied to a tree with the brands- 
marks newly altered. When the complainant and his party 
came up, the prisoners ran away, or, as one of the witnesses 
states, went in different directions. This is the only evidence 
against the third prisoner, the appellant. The Supreme Court 
thinks that it would not be safe to convict him of unlawfully 
receiving on this evidence.'* 



Oct. 2. 



July 8, 
Present Cebast 0. J. and Stewart and CAtLEt, J. J. 
t). C. Jaffna, 954. The plaintiff, T^ho was a resident of Madras, Proxy sign- 
had instructed a Proctor at Jaflaa to prosecute his case in the Dis- ed in India to 
trict Court. A proxy, stamped in accordance with the provisions of "^ "| '° ^®y' 
the Ceylon Stamp Act, had accordingly been prepared by the Proctor 
and forwarded to India for plaintiff's signature. On this document 
being returned duly sigfted, it *as filed with the libel and summons 
issued. The defendant's Proctor thereupon moved that the pro- 
ceedings be quashed, on the ground that the proxy was invalid in 
that it had not been stamped according to the Indian stamp laws. 
The motion having been disallowed by the District Judge (de Saram,) 
the defendant appealed. Per Stewart, J. — " Affirmed. The proxy 
was signed with the intention of its being made use of in Ceylon. Its 
validity was therefore properly determined according to the laws in 
force where it was to be used. See Story on Conflict of Laws, page 
376." 



October 2. 
Present Stewart and Gatlet, J. J. 
D. a Batticaloa, 1635. The indictment in this case was to the jurisdiction, 
efiect that "the defendants did, on the night of the 15th January, Assault to" 
1873, in and upon the complainant violently and unlawfully make an commit Kape. 
assault, with intent her the said complainant then violently and against 
her will unlawfully to ravish and carnally know." The District 
Judge ( Worthington) having upheld the plea of jurisdiction raised 
by the Counsol for the defence and declined to try the charge, the 
Queen's Advocate appealed. In appeal, {Clarence, D. Q. A„ for ap- 
pellant, Grcnier for respondent) per Stewakt, J. —" The charge in 



Oct. 2, | ^^ ^^rt hi.- 

this case is for an assault with intent to commit a rape, an offence 
wliich hitherto has invariably been tried only before the Supreme 
Court, — an offence moreover which is usually punishable by a severer 
sentence than a District Court is empowered to award. The abjection 
to the jurisdiction, having been taken before plea, was properly up- 
held. It is ordered that the plaint be quashed." 



Sale cancel- -D. C. Galle, 32542. Plaintiff had purchased a certain land from 
led, as vendor 1st defendant, who was subsequently found to have a bad title to one- 
^_"'j'^"°'™^Mialfofit. The District Court having refused to cancel the entire 
one-half of sale, the vendee appealed. Per Stewabt, J. — "The first defendant 
the land sold, being able to give a good title for only a half of the land sold, it ap- 
pears to the Sitpreme Court that the plaintiff is entitled to have the 
sale cancelled. It is accordingly decreed that the sale to the plaintiff 
be declared cancelled, and that the plaintiff do recover from the first 
defendaiit the amount of purchase together with interest thereon at 
nine per cent from the date of conveyance : 1st defendant to pay all 
costs." 



Eight to re- -^- ^- ^"''"■'^Vi ^''6085. This was an appeal from the following inter- 
arrest in exe- locutory order of the District Court : 

cution, " In this, and the connected case, TSi). 55,556, the defendant was ar- 

rested in the Galle District, by virtue of a writ of execution against 
person, issued by this Court, but which, was not endorsed, either- by 
the District Judjie of Kandy, or the District Judge of Galle. The 
defendant accordingly, when he was brought up before this Court for 
commitment, was discharged. The plaintiffs upon this moved for a 
a new writ-against person, and the question is, whether the defendant, 
having once been arrested and discharged, can be re-arrested for the 
same debt. This case does not fall under the 5th sub-section, of the 
59th clause of Ordinance 4 of 18G7. That sub-section, as it appears 
to me, refers to the discharge of a defi-ndant bv the Court of the Dis- 
trict in which he was arrested, and not to a discharge by the Court 
which originally issued the writ. No English or Kandyan authorities 
can be made applicable to the case, for it is expressly enacted, by the 
last clause of the Ordinance 4 of 1867, that all questions arising in 
respect of this Ordinance are to be determined by the Koman Dutch 
law. ISfow, I can find no Roman Dutch Law authority that an arrest, 
which is in itself a nullity, and has not been followed by any commit- 
ment to prison, operates in any way as a satisfaction or extinguishment 
of the debt for which the prisoner was arrested. The arrest in this 
case was wholly illegal and void, the Fiscal having no authority from 



DISTRICT COURTS. 



97 



Oct. 7, 



any competent Conrt to effect it; and this Court treated it as a nullity, 
by refusing to commit the prisoner, when his person was brought be- 
fore it. I do not think that the debt was in any way discharged by 
this arrest, and the Rule will be made absolute with costs." 

In appeal, {Ferdinands iov resp;.>ndent) per Stewart, J.— "Affirm- 
ed for the reasons given by the District Judge." 



October 7. 
Present Stewart and Catlet, J. J. 
D. C. Galle, 33529. The following judgment of the District 
Judge {Gillman) explains the case. " The only evidence adduced 
is that of the plainliff; and the facts proved thereby are these: — 
plantift bought from the defendant some Sapphires, paying him, as 
part of the purchase money, Rs. 300. Plaintifi however on examin- 
ing the stones found that they were not worth the money agreed on 
(14 or 15 rupees a carat,) and expressed his dissatisfaction to the 
defendant when he came, a week afterwards, to get the balance of 
the purchase amount. Defendant thereupon said that he was sure 
the stones would realize in London more than tlie rate agreed on; and 
on this plaintifi suggested, and defendant consented, that they should 
be sent home for sale there on the defendant's account. The con- 
tract of sale was thus rescinded, and a new one of mandatum entered 
into. The consideration for this charge moving from defendant to 
the plaintiff is not stated in the evidence; but the facts proved show 
that it was the letting plaintiff off his purchase. It was also agreed 
that defendant should return the Rs. 300, to be settled when the account 
sales should arrive. The stones sold at a loss as plaintiff" expected: 
and plaintiff now sues for the difference between the net proceeds 
and the Rs. 300, and for interest. The defence is purely technical, 
restiug on the argument that plaintiff, having declared only on some 
of the common counts in assumpsit, cannot recover on the evidence 
adduced. But apart from the fact that neither party can have been 
taken by surprise, as each must have well known the facts of the case, 
I think the objection is not valid. The Rs. 300, after the rescission 
of the sale by consent, became clearly a loan to the defendant, and 
the count of money lent is declared on. The evidence supports also 
the count of account stated, defendant having admitted a net sum 
of money due from him (Chitty on Contracts, p. 605, edition 8th, 
citing Arthur v. Dartch, 8 Jur. 118,) The claim for interest is duly 
made. It is further objected that the only evidence of the sale 
account of the stones is a letter from the London salesman to the plain- 
tiff. But copy of the account was furnished to the defendant on the 



Contracts of 
Sale and 
Agency, 



Oct. 21. I ^^ paut hi.— 

20th June last, and the evidence shows that defendant repeatedly 
promised to pay the claim, l^et judgment be entered for plaintift as 
claimed with costs." 

In appeal, (the Queen's Advocate for respondent) per Catdet, J — . 
" Affirmed, but the amount of the judgment to be entered for plaintifl 
is Rs. 166"92, with interest at 9 per cent per annum trom 3rd Octo^ 
ber, 1872, until payment. There is no evidence of any agreement 
that interest at the rate of 10 per cent should be paid on the advance; 
and the claim for interest upon interest is clearly inadmissible. Un- 
der the circumstances of this case, the Supreme Court thinks that 
interest accruing previously to the demand made by the plaintifl 
should not be decreed, and the only evidence of the date of any de- 
mand is the return to the summons, which appears to have been serv- 
ed on 3rd October, 1872. With regard to the principal issue in this 
case, the Supremo Court thinks that the new contract of Agency, by 
which the plaintift undertook to send the stones to England to be sold 
for defendant's benefit, was accepted as an accord and satisfaction 
for any breach of the original contract of Sale; and that the original 
contract having been mutually abandoned by the substitution of the 
new one, any money paid under the former would be recoverable un- 
der the count for money had and received. There is moreover 
evidence of accounting between the parties, and of a promise to pay 
on the part of the defendant, which is believed by the learned District 
Judge. This evidence would support a finding for the plaintifi on 
the count for money payable on an account stated." 



Notice of -D- C. Colombo, 60775. Judgment having been entered for defeud- 

trial. ant in this case, the plaintiff appealed on the ground of insufficient, 
notice of trial, which he had duly pleaded in the Court below. Per 
Stewaet, J. — "Set aside. According to the affidavit filed in the 
proceedings, notice of trial for the 13th March was served on the 
plaintifi on the 5th March, only eight days before the day fixed for 
the trial. This case not having been fixed for trial under the 5th 
section of the Rules of June 17th, 1844, the plaintiff was entitled to 
14 days' notice at the least, as required by the 9th section of the 
Rules of July 2nd, 1842." 



October 2}. 
Present Stewart, J. 
Assignee ap- D. C. Kandy, 520. The insolvent iu this case (Mais) having duly 
pointed after a obtained a first class certificate on the 20th June, 1873, a motion was 
*^i^ssue™to lu-*^ ^"'^°^^'^*'^'^' °"' '''^ ^^^'^ of August, on behalf of Messrs. Green and 
solvent. 



DISTRICT COURTS. 99 

Company, — (^one of the creditors who had proved)— for the appoint- 
ment of Mr. J. P. Green as Assignee. The motion was disallowed 
by the learned District Judge, ( VanLangenherg) in the following 
terms: "This is a meeting specially summoned at the instance of 
Messrs. Green and Company, proved creditors of the insolvent, for the 
appointment of an Assignee. The 66th clause of the Ordinance pro- 
vides for the appointment of assignees at the first public sitting or at 
any adjournment thereof, and I do not think that such appointment 
can be made at any subsequent stage of the proceedings, as in this case, 
after the allowance of certificate," In appeal, (Ferdinands for 
appellant) per Stewart, J.^"Set aside, and it is ordered that the mo- 
tion of Mr. de Saram be allowed, and that Mr. J.,P. Green be appointed 
assignee of the insolvent estate of F. W. Mais. It appears to the 
Supreme Court, that the provision of the 66th section of the Ordin- 
ance 7 of 1853 for the appointment of assignees is merely direc- 
tory ; — and that, having regard to the tenor and requirements of the 
enactment, there is nothing to prevent assignees being chosen and 
appointed at any other time as may be necessary at a meeting duly 
called by the Court for that purpose, before the final settlement of the 
insolvency proceedings. The above view is confirmed by a reference 
to the 64th section, which allows of the appointment of provisional 
assignees at any time after the adjudication of insolvency. On in- 
quiry, the Supreme Court' finds that the practice in the District Court 
of Colombo is in conformity with this decision. The fact of the in- 
solvent having obtained his certificate cannot afiect the question, if 
the interests of the creditors require that an assignee should be 
ftppointed," 



Oct. 28. 



U. C. Galle, 27558. This was an appeal from an interlocutory jj^^qj -^^ jj q_ 
order of the District Judge, Mr. Rosemalecocqi (dated 1st August, judgment not 
1873) refusing to aUow judgment to be re-opened. Mr. Justice Stewart, appealed 
while reading the case, having detected a clerical error in the final agan^st^ recti, 
judgment as delivered by Mr. Gillman on the 6th December, 1872, 
directedthat the judgment be amended by the substitution of "one 
fourteenth " for "one-fortieth " part of the land in dispute. The in., 
terlocutory order was affirmed. 



October 28. 
Present Stewart, J. 
D. C. Negomho, 125. An order granting administration to the Administra- 
iutestate's widow was affirmed; and per Stewaet, J.—" In the absence tion. 



Nov. 4. ( ^^^ PART III. — 

of any special reason rendering it undeairable to appoint the widow, 
she is entitled to letters of administration in preference to all 
others," 



iudgmentf ^' ^' Trincomalie, 209S3. This was an action for goods sold and 
delivered against ,the Captain (Scaffino) of the barque Maria Louisa. 
The District Judge (Temple) having refused to allow the answer to 
be filed out of time and having entered judgment by default, the 
defendant appealed. 

The Queen's Advocate, for appellant. — The summons to appear at 
the Trincomalie Court on the 25th June had been served on the de- 
fendant at Galle on the 94th June, and the Rule which was return- 
able on the 21st July had been served on the 11th July. There was 
clearly no time, under the circumstances detailed in his affidavit, for 
the Captain to have engaged Counsel to represent him or to have ar- 
ranged for his defence. The affidavit recited, inter alia, " that at the 
time the deponent received the said process, he was undergoing much 
anxiety of mind, as his vessel was, owing to the boisterous state of 
the weather, in distress; that after he got over his difficulties he con- 
sulted a Proctor at Galle and had his defence drawn up and sent to 
Trincomalie, but before the same could reach his Proctor, plaintifE 
had moved for and issued a rule." The proceedings on the part of 
the plaintifi had certainly not been in accordance with the Rules and 
Orders. 

Ferdinands, for respondent. — The Captain had set up two contra- 
dictory defences to the action, and in view of his telegram to the 
plaintifi promising payment, the Judge was justified in not giving him 
an opportunity of further delaying his creditor, 

Per Stewakt, J. — " Set aside. It being stated by the appellant's 
Counsel that the full amount has been recovered by execution, lie 
judgment of the District Court is hereby set aside, and the case re- 
manded in order that the defendant's answer may be received. The 
money to remain in deposit pending the determination of the case. 
In the event of the defendant not filing answer within fourteen days 
of this case being received in the District Court of Trincomalie, tha 
judgment appealed from to stand affirmed with costs," 



„. , , . , November 4. 

Eight of de. 
fendant's Present Creasy, C. J. and Stewart and Catlet, J. J. 

Counsel in j) q Batticaloa, 1643. This was a prosecution under the 5th 

to inspect J. P. clause of Ordinance 24 of 1848. There were two oi-ders a.ppeale(J 

proceedings. 



blSTElCT COURTS. 101 ] „ , 

> Nov. 5. 
from in the case, one refusing the application of defendant's Advo- 
cate for a view of the J. P. proceedings, the other allowing the de- 
fendant to have certified copies of the depositions before the J. P. 
In appeal, (the Queen's Advocate for complainant and appellant, 
Grenier for defendant and appellant) the first order was affirmed and 
the second set aside ; and per Creasy, C. J. — 

"The 2nd section of the Ordinance No. 3 of 1846 enacts that all 
such evidence' should be admissible in the Com-ts of this Colony as 
would be admissible in Her Majesty's Courts of Kecord at Westmins- 
ter. Accordingly in Ceylon depositions before Justices of the Peace, 
when they are legally admissible in the Courts of Westminster, would 
be admissible in our Ceylon Courts. Whether an accused party com- 
mitted for trial is entitled to inspection of the depositions against him, 
is not a question of evidence, but of general law and practice, and as 
such to be regulated by local laws. We have no local law or rule of 
Court allowing a prisoner a view of the depositions, nor is there any 
law or rule requiring that he should be furnished with attested copies 
thereof. As a matter of right, therefore, neither the prisoner nor his 
counsel is entitled to a view of the depositions. But there is a dis- 
cretion vested in the Judges who, in the exercise of the general 
authority placed in a Court of Justice, will take care, where he consi- 
ders justice requires it (as is the practice of the Supreme Court in 
the course of a trial) to recommend that the prisoner's counsel be 
allowed reference to either the whole or portion? of the depositions as 
may be deemed right. The case of Murder is dealt with as an excep- 
tional case, in which the prisoner's counsel are always allowed full 
reference before trial to all the proceedings." 

D. C. Colombo, 817. An order issuing a certificate, in the form Insolvencv. 
R in the schedule annexed to Ordinance 7 of 1863, against an insol- Certificate E. 
Vent, was set aside by the Supreme Court in the following terms: 
"The power of granting certificate "R" is in eflect the pOwer of im- 
prisoning a man for a year, and it ought not to be excercised until 
all legal conditions enforced for its employment have been strictly 
complied with. The learned District Judge records that there has 
been no refusal of farther protection, and he also records that there 
has been no refusal or suspension of certificate. Consequently, as it 
seems to us, the certificate "R" could not be granted. 

November 5. 
Present Crbast, C. J. and Stewart and Cayl6y, J. J. 
D. C. Kandy, 6476]. The following judgment of the learned Priority of 
District Judge i^Cayley) explains the case. claims in exe- 

cution. 



Nov. 5. 



) 102 PART III.— 

This is a special case to determine the several claims made upon 
the proceeds of the sale in execution of the Heenagalle Estate, the 
property of the late Thomas Jackson. These claims are 

(1) The claims of the plaintiff, under whose writ the Estate was 
sold, for the amount due on two special mortgages of the property, 
dated respectively the 1st July, 1863 and the 23rd September, I864t 

(2) A claim of A. Fernando for the value of certain rice supplied 
by him to the Estate; 

(.3.) A claim of Mr. VonDadelzen, the Superintendent of the Es- 
tate, for arrears of his salary, and of the pay due to the coolies, and 
also for cost of rice supplied to the Estate; 

(4.) A claim of rhe Executors' Proctors for costs of the Testamen- 
tary proceedings, in which the defendants took out Probate to the 
Will of the late Thomas Jackson; 

(5.) A claim of the Executors of Jackson's Estate for then' Com- 
mission. 

It is admitted that, if preference is allowed to the claim of the 
plaintiff, the. mortgagee, his claim will exhaust the proceeds of the 
sale. It is also admitted that all the liabilities of the Estate, in res- 
pect of which the other claims are made, accrued after 1 864, the date 
of the plaintiff's last mortgage. With regard to the claim for pre- 
ference made by the Superintendent for his salary and by A. 
Fernando for the value of the rice, it appears to me that the judg- 
ment of the Supreme Court in the leading case of Lee vs. Edere' 
mauesingam (S. C. Minutes, 10th August, 1 862) is decisive ao-ainst the 
cliiiniants. It was decided in that case that monies spent in the cul- 
tivation and upkeep of a Coffee Estate enjoy no tacit hypothec upon 
the property, certainly no tacit hypothec with preference over a prior 
special conventional mortgage. The claim made in that case was for 
the regular expenditure, as appearing in the Estate accounts; and in- 
cluding, no doubt, superintendent's pay, coolies' wages, cost of rice, 
&c.; and I do not see how any distinction can be drawn in this respect 
between the claim of a person Who supplies the money for the super- 
intendent's pay or for the rice, (as in the case referred to), and the 
claim of the superintendent himself or of the rice vendor himself. 
Even supposing the superintendent had a tacit hypothec upon the 
property for the arrears of his salary (which I do think is the case,) 
it would still have to be shewn that such a hypothec was privileo'ed 
so as to have a preference over a prior conventional mortgage, in 
contravention of the general rule that, in a conflict between le^al and 
special conventional mortgages, priority of time gives priority of 
right. Next, with regard to the claims made by the Executors' 
Proctors for their costs incurred in the Testamentary case. These 



DISTRICT COURTS. 103 , ^^^ g 



! 



claims may, I think, be treated as if made by the Executors them- Priority of 
selves. It was argued by Mr. Beven that, if the Executors had not claims m exe- 
taken out Probate, the plaintiff would have been put to the expense 
of Letters of Administration, before he could have realized his mort- 
gage, and the Probate was, therefore, in eflect taken out for the be- 
nefit of the plaintiff. Whatever benefit accrued to tlie olaintifl tr..m 
the Probate taken out by the defendant, I should require some express 
authority before holding that, when a mortgagor dies, the testamentary 
expenses of his estate are to be defrayed from the property specially 
mortgaged. No such authority was cited, and I know of none. The 
mortgagee took no part in these testamentary proceedings and had 
no control over them, and the Executors were not compelled to take 
out Probate. It does not appear whether there were or were not any 
assets besides the mortgaged property. If there were, the Executors 
must be presumed to have taken out Probate for their own benefit or 
tliat of the Estate; if there were not, there was no use increasing these 
testamentary expenses at all, and the Executors should have thrown 
upon the plaintiff the burden of administering as a creditor. This, 
however, they have not done, and to allow them to set off these 
expenses nOw, would be in efiect to alter the judgment which the 
plaintift has obtained against the Estate for the full amount claimed 
by him, and which declares the property in question specially bound 
and executable for the payment of this amount. Next with regard to 
Commission. The right of Executors and Administrators to commission 
ifl governed by the 10th rule of the Rules and Orders, sec. iv. By this 
rule they are allowed to charge a commission of 5 per cent., on pro- 
perty retained by the heirs and on property sold by such Executors or 
Administrators, and 2J per cent on cash found jn the house of the de- 
ceased. In the present case, the propei-ty in respect of which commission 
is claimed is neither property retained by the heirs nor property sold 
by the Executors nor cash found in the house, but it is property 
sold by the Fiscal. It appears to me that this claim cannot be up- 
held. The only claim left for consideration, as conflicting with the 
plaintiffs claim, is that of the coolies for their wages. This claim 
is governed by the 18th section of the Ordinance 11 of 1865, which 
enacts that "all wages due on any contract of hire and service 
and all liabilities arising therefrom, as respects the employer, shall 
be a first charge against the Estate and property, in which the 
servant under such contract shall have been employed and shall 
be recoverable by snit against the party for the time being in poss- 
ession of the said Estate or property." With regard to this claim 
it was argued by Mr. VanLangenberg (1) that the charge thereby 
created cannot operate to the prejudice of a mortgage effected be- 



, 1 104 PART III. 

Nov. 7. > 

fore the Ordinance came into force; and (2) that the wages in ques- 
tion must be recoverd not from the proceeds of the sale of the Estate, 
but from the purchaser now in possession of the property. With 
regard to the first point, I cannot concur with the plaintiff's Counsel. 
The words of the Ordinance are plain, and taken in their literal 
sense mean that these wages are to be a first charge upon the Estate 
for all intents and purposes, and not merely a charge subject to any 
prior incumbrances effected before the Ordinance came into opera- 
tion. If the latter signification had been intended, it would have been 
expresssd. The second point appears to me also untenable. The 
coolies who are entitled to this charge, appear to me to be in the 
same position as any other hypothecary creditors, and to be entitled, 
when the Estate is sold by judicial sale, to come forward and claim 
the proceeds in the same manner as the other incumbrances. It is 
also to be observed that they came forward before the Estate had 
legally changed hands, for their claim was made before the sale was 
confirmed and the property conveyed to the purchaser; indeed, be- 
fore the greater part of the purchase money was deposited. It will 
be accordingly ordered that, from the proceeds of the sale, the coolies 
will be entitled to receive, in preference of all other claims, all arrears 
of wages due to them for a period not exceeding three months. If 
Mr VonDadelzen has paid any of their wages, he will be entitled to 
stand pro tanto in the place of the coolies. Plaintiff will be declared 
entitled to recover from the balance the full amount of his judgment. 
As this exhausts the fund, it is not necessary to determine the respec- 
tive priorities of the other claimants. The costs of the coolies and of 
Mr. VonDadelzen, incurred on their behalf, must be paid by the other 
claimants, who will also bear their own costs respectively. 

In appeal, (FerdiTWmds for appellant^ per Stewart, J. —"Affirm- 
ed for the reasons given by the District Judge in the Court below." 

Eice Contract. ^. C. Colombo, 6-2066. On the 21st October, 1872, the defendant 
Failure of (Arunasalem C'hetty) entered into the following contract with the 

consideration. p\a,i„tifia (Britton, Aitken and Co.) who acted bs ^ents or brokers 
of Messrs. Armitage Brothers, and who subsequently confirmed the 
sale in writing on the 7th of November. 

"I the undersigned (defendant) hereby contract to purchase from 
Britton, Aitken and Co. and receive Jeliveiy of a cargo of Solai rice, to be 
laden in the from Calcutta, consisting of about 

soon bags of fair sample and in the usual gunny bags, delivery to be taken 
at the wharf; and I agree to pay for the same at the rate of rupees seven 
cents twelve currency (Rs. 7-12 currency'^ per bag of 164 lbs nett by cash 
nett or by bill at 4 months wirh interest added at the rate of t clVe per 
cent per annum. The foregoing is subject to confirmation bv B. A. 
and Co.'" 



DISTRICT CODRTS. 105 

The rice in question formed part of a car^o of some 21,000 bags, 
which arrived by two steamers, (the Yeddo and Timsah), and the 
landing of which, according to one of the witnesses, (Newman) "must 
have spread over fi-om about the llth of November to about the 11th 
of December." The defendant having paid for, and removed only 
8000 baiiS, the plaintifls wrote to him on the 3rd of December re- 
questing " an immediate settlement for, and removal of the balance 
ex Yeildo, which has, been lying at the (.'ustom house at your (the 
defendant's) risk." On the 10th ot December, the defendant granted, 
in respect of the balance 2000 bags, a promissory note for -Bs- 4328, 
and obtained a delivery order from the plaintifls on Messrs. Armitage 
Brothers, who, however, declined to give up the rice, " excepting on 
condition that the defendant should pay warehouse rent from the 
beginning of November." The plaintifls were now sued on the pro- 
Djissory note, the libel containing also the usual money counts. The 
defendant admitted the note, but pleaded failure of consideration. 
The plaintifls replied that they had duly fulfilled their part of the 
contract, and were entitled to recover. At the trial, Messrs. B. 
Geindeod, W. D. ScanLTZE and C Todd acted as Assessors, and 
unanimously concurred with the Judge in the following opinions: (1) 
" that the words ' delivery to be taken at the wharf,' import that the 
defendant was to pay all reasonable and necessary chaises for ware- 
house rent, actually proved to have been incurred between the date 
of landing and the date of removal ; (2) that the defendant was not 
liable for warehouse rent on the 2000 bajs in question which accrued 
previous to the date of the plaintiffs' letter of 3rd December; (3) nor 
for warehouse rent (if any J which accrued between that date, and 
the date of the promissory note and delivery orderof 10th December; 
(4) that there is no satisfactory evidence that the 2000 bags (the 
balance of a transaction of SOOO bags, which again was part of an 
hnportation of 21,000 bagsj may not have been the very last bags 
which were landed, the bags landed on different dates not having 
been kept separate or distinguished, and, if so, no warehouse rent 
was due on them on llth December, — further no definite sum is 
•hewn to hare been demanded as due on these 2000 bags ; (5) that 
the plaintiffs' claim should be dismissed with costs." 

In appeal, (Kelly for appellants, the Queen's Advocate, Perdinandt 
with him, for respondent) per CATLBr, J. — "Affirmed. The plain- 
tiffs excuse their non-delivery of the rice, for which the promissory 
note was given, on the ground of the non-payment by the defendant 
of certain warehouse rent. It is clear, however, that more rent was 
claimed than was actually due in respect of the rice in question: and 



Nov. 7. 



I 106 PART III. 

Isov. 7. < 

the defeudaiit was not bound, after the refusal to deliver any of the 
rice, to accept the plaintiffs' subsequent offer of taking a part of the 
rice leaving the question of the amount of rent to be settled after- 
wards. The consideration fol- the note has entirely failed, and the 
plaintiffs' claim was properly dismissed." 



November 7. 
Present Cbeast, C. J. and Stewakt and Catlet, J. J. 
Ex-parte £). C. Colombo, 52589. The question in this case was the effect 

Jmlgraent on of proceedings by sequestration against an absent defendant. It ap- 
" poared that ex-parte judgment had been entered against him on the 
9th April, 1869, and that some moveable property belonging to him 
had shortly after been sold in execution. On the plaintiff moving in 
187'3 to have the judgment revived, the learned District Judge re- 
jected the motion, and allowed the decree against the defendant to be 
opened up for the following reasons. 

The Rules require that, before the Court proceeds ex-parte, procla- 
mations be made on " two several days in open Court, at such intervals 
" as the Court in its discretion shall consider fit and just towards all 
" parties, calling on the defendant to appear." The object of the pro- 
clamations clearly is, that some members of the public, either hearing 
them or hearing of them, may communicate the fact to a defendant who 
is believed to be abroad or out of the jurisdiction, so that he may come 
forward and enter an appearance in the cause. These proclamations 
are simply in lieu of personal service of summons, and I consider that 
everything must proceed after tuem precisely as would have been 
done if personal service had been effected. The course of proceeding 
in such case is, first, that the summons specifies a future date for the de- 
fendant's appearance ; and next that the defendant is allowed four clear 
days, after that fixed by the summons, to enter appearance, and until 
that period has elapsed the Court cannot proceed to ex-parte trial or 
judgment. So also the proclamations are meant to fix a future (and 
reasonable) date for appearance. In the present case, the Court ordered 
that the proclamations be issued, returnable on the 25th March and 9th 
April, 1869, and that a day be fixed for ex-parte hearing. As the pro- 
clamations are to be made in open Court, and by the Court, I am not 
clear that I understand the sense in which the word "returnable" 
was used in this order. The proclamations ought to have been made 
in open Court on these days, and they ought to have specified a future 
dav certain for appearance on pain of proceeding ex-parte. It is plain 
that the nature and object of this .system ot proceeding by proclamation 
has not been undci-stood. The Rules require two distinct modes of call- 



DISTRICT COURTS. 107 



Nov. 7. 



Proclamation. 



ing on the defendant to appear : 1st, written notices are to be affixed Ex-parte 
at the Court House and elsewhere "calling on the defendant to ap- ja<lg"i™ton 
pear ; * 2nd, proclamation is also to be made in Court on two several 
days at fit and just intervals also calling on the defendant to appear. 
Both these courses must be followed. Now with respect to the first, 
there is a notice filed in the Record in these terms : "Take notice that 
" if the defendants do not appear in the said suit and abide the order of 
'' Court, that the Court will on the 25th day of March, 1 869 proceed with 
" me 1st proclamation, and on the 9th day of April will proceed to hear 
"and decide the case ex-parce. Colombo, 18th March, 1869. By order 
of Court, (signed) G. H. Anthonisz, Secretary." Now in the first 
place such a notice that the Court will "proceed to proclamation" is 
something quite unknown to the Rules. In the next place, although 
the endorsement on the back of the notice proves it to be a copy of 
what was intended to be the notice which the Rules require to be 
affixed to the walls of the Court House, it does not follow the terms 
of these ; for it does not call on the defendant to appear on any day ; 
but treating it, by favorable construction (though a strict construction 
of the Rules would be more correct) as a notice calling on the de- 
fendant to appear on the 9th April, it allowed only 3 weeks for this 
purpose, a period which cannot be considered either fit or just (to 
use the language of the Rules) in view of the fact that the defendant 
is described in the libel as of a certain village, in the District of Tin- 
nevelly, which is well known to be a place in the Presidency of 
Madras; and there was the strongest reason to believe that the de- 
fendant, whom the Fiscal had reported " not to be found," was 
residing there, or, after the custom of the natives of India, had (if he 
was ever here) " returned to his country." It was almost impossible 
(in 1869) that news of the public intimation could reach him in so 
short a time, or, if it did, that he could either come to or communicate 
with Ceylon in time to prevent judgment ex-parte. I have, however, 
to deal more particularly with the 2nd and concurrent mod« of inti- 
mation, viz. the required proclamations. 1 find it stated on the 
record that the first proclamation was made on the 25th March. 
Assuming it to have been one calling on defendant to appear on the 
9th of April, the time allowed was neither fit nor just. It appears, 
however, from the statement of the person who made it that it is his 
invariable practice, on what is called the 1st proclamation day, simply 
to call the names of the parties and to do nothing more ; and he has 
no .doubt that was all which was done in the present cases. Conse- 
quently, no proclamation to appear on a, day certain was made on 
that occasion. Passing to the 2nd proclamation fixed for the 9th April, 
there is no record in the proper place that any ever was made, but a 



Nov. 7. I ^°^ ^*«^' "' — 

. Kx-parte paper has been found in the file in the following t !rms : " The plaintiff 
]n gmtnt on u moves that the 2nfl proclamation may be made in open Court this 
■ " day, and the case be heard ex-parte," to which is subjoined as fol- 
lows, " April 9th, the 2nd proclamation in this case lias this day 
" been made by me in O'ourt. (Signed) A. Santiago." On the same day 
the trial proceeded ex-parte and judgment was entered. I have alrendy 
shewn that at all events the first proclamation must, like a summons, be 
intended to be a notice to appear on some future day and defend the 
action ; and it is palpably unreasonable and unjust that a proclama- 
tion to appear, which (to be more than a farce) should be made long 
enough before judgment to give a defendant in India reasonable 
time to hear of it and appear and defend the action, should be made 
on the very day the judgment is given. If he had been personally 
served with a summons, he would have had at least 4 days after a 
future day certain, stated in the summtms, on which to appear. I 
should have no great difficulty in so construing the concluding 
words of the 17th rule as to apply to the 2nd proclamation the same 
reasoning I have applied to the 1 st, were it necessary to do so. But 
it is unnecessary, as the officer's affiilavit shows that the so called 2nd 
proclamation as actually made was not a proclamation calling on the 
defendant in direct terms to appear and defend the suit on pain of the 
Court proceeding ex-parte, but was simply in these terms, " this case 
proceeds ex-parte." Moreover, whatever argument founded on the 
concluding words of the 17th Rule may be urged with respect to the 
validity of the 2nd proclamation, can in no degree affect the irregu- 
larities I have pointed out with respect to the 1st proclamation which 
of themselves justify the judgment which will be given on the matler 
before the Court. I quite understand how these irregularities have 
crept into practice. Because procedure of this nature very often or 
most frequently proves in effect to be a mere form unattended with any 
practical benefit, unreflecting officers are apt to forget that it cau 
ever be anything else, or have any real meaning or use in the inter- 
ests of justice. In fact they do not reflect; what the meaning and 
purpose and nature of the process is. They forget that if it were 
really in all cases a solemn farce, the legislature would not have takea 
the trouble to enact and require it ; and that cases where the parties 
interested are absent, more than any others, are those in which the , 
law most particularly desires that all the forms which it provides for 
their protection should be most particularly observed both in letter 
and in spirit. The Court holds that the proclamations have not been 
duly made, and that therefore the proceedings of 9th April, 1869 were 
irregular and must, with the subsequent proceedings and down to and 



DISTRICT COURTS. 109 ) „ 

- Nov. 7. 



i'roolamation. 



including those of 16th September, 1872, be set aside and the judg- Ex-parte 
ment re-opened. . 1"*^^,"""'',^" 

In uppeal, (Allots for appellant, Grenier for respondents) per 
Stewart, J. — Set aside, and it is ordered that the judgment and 
proceedings of the 9th April, 18fi9 do remain in force, and that the 
said judgment be revived. This case was instituted on the 1 4th 
December, 1868, and exparte judgment obtained on the 9th April, 
1869. It is not disputed that every form and proceeding usually, 
adopted under the 15th, Ifith and I7th sections of the Rules and 
Orders was observed preparatory to judgment being entered. It 
ftirther appears that, on the 28th April following, writs of execution 
asaiust person and property were issued, and property of the defen- 
dants to the amount of £5 1 %s M. was seized and sold by the Fiscal. 
Nothing seems to have been dune after the levy until February 
6th, 1872, when the plaintiff by motion applied for a rule on the de- 
fendants to show cause why judgment should not be revived and 
execution re-issue. On 1 6th September, judgment was revived, "li- 
" berty being reserved to the plaintiff to move for writs, and to the 
" defendant to move to open up the judgment." Motions as above per- 
mitted were subsequently submitted, and the learned Judge on the 3rd 
July, 1873, after full and close scrutiny of the rules referred to, held that 
the requisite Proclamations had not been duly made, " and tliat, there- 
fore, the proceedings of 9th April, 1869, were irregular, and must be 
set aside." It may be stated as a general proposition, that it is not 
cumpetent for a District Court to alter or set aside its own judgments. 
Thig rule, it may be conceded, is not without its exceptions: but 
these are few and confined to narrow limits. Suffice it to say that 
in a case of the nature like the present, unless it could be proved 
that the judgment was obtained by fraud or gross irregularity 
amounting to substantial injustice, no such power could be exer- 
cised by a District Court. See IIILorenz, p. 229. Fraud is not 
mentioned in any part of the elaborate judgment of the learned 
District Ju(%e. His finding is entirely based on alleged irregulari- 
ties. It would appear that sequestration had been duly obtained and 
issued; and that the notices were affixed at the Court House and 
other places as required. The error, (if error it be,) on which the 
District Judge proceeds is mainly as to the time and mode in which 
the two Proclamations were made. The notice is dated 18th March. 
It recites that Summons anl Writ of Sequestration were duly issu- 
ed; that property of the defendants was sequestered on the 26th 
Pebniary; and concludes by notifying, "that if the defendants do 
" not appear in the said suit and abide the order of this Court, that 



Nov. 7. I '^"^ ^^^'^ "'•— 

Ex-parte " the Court will, on the 25th day of March, 1869, proceed with the 

Proulam"t"'' " '^' Prnciamation, and on the 19th day of April next proceed with 
■ " the '2nd Proulaiuation, and on the last mentioned day proceed to 
" hear and decide the case exparte." It is remarked in the judg- 
ment, now appealed from, " that such a notice that the Court will 
•' proceed to Proclamation is something "quite unknown to the Rules." 
But, even if this be so, the notice being superfluous in part cannot 
invalidate the rest of the proceedings. Again, it is stated that, " it 
(the notice) does not call on the defendants to appear on any day." 
The notice expressly intimates "that if the defendants do not appear 
"in the said suit, the Court will on the last mentioned day (9th April) 
" proceed to hear and decide the " case exparte." This surely is 
quite equivalent to calling upon the defendants to appear on any day 
up to the 9th Api-il inclusive. It is further observed that 
only three weeks were allowed for the defendants to appear: 
but it ■ should be borne in mind that the property had been 
sequestered three weeks earlier. This, however, is a matter which 
was in the discretion of the District Judge who fixed the time; 
and we do not think it was within the province of the present 
Judge to re-open the judgment on such a ground. The defend- 
ants may have had, probably had, agents in Colombo, and it may be 
that the Ihen District Judge was satisfied that the defendants, if so 
disposed, had sufficient opportunity offered them of appearing, if not 
personally, by attorney, within the appointed time. As respects the 
mode in which the Proclamations were made, it appears to us that 
we must assume that the two learned Judges who respectively presided 
in the District Court on the 25th March (Mr. Lawson), and on the 
29th April (Mr. Lorenz), took care that the Proclamations were duly 
made. It is indisputable that the names of the defendants were call- 
ed on both days. In thus expressing ourselves, we desire, however, 
not to be understood as being of opinion that it will not be desirable 
in future, in cases such as the present, (having regard to the place 
where the defendant is supposed to be) not to give ample time for ap- 
pearance. The time allowed should be so large as to obviate the 
possibility of any question being raised as to its sufficiency. In view 
also of the latter part of the 16th section of the Rules and Orders, 
which requires that Proclamation shall be made two several days 
in open Court, at such "intervals" (plural) as the Court in its dis- 
cretion shall consider fit, &j., we incline to the opinion that an 
interval should be allowed between the 2nd Proclamation and the trial. 
Thejudgmentof the learned District Judgehas proceeded on a careful, 
technical and closely reasoned analysis of the loth, 16th and 17th 
RulpR. But so far as concerns the question before us, all that we 



Dl TRICT COURTS. Ill 1 JJ^^ „_ 

have to determine is, were the proceedings preparatory to the ex- Ex parte jadg- 
parte judgment a nullity. Can it be stated of proceedings that ment on Pro- 
have been in accordance with the usage of the Court since its exis- clamation. 
tence, sanctioned by a succession of learned Judges, adopted in this 
case by the late Mr, Justice Lawson, who had for years presided 
in that Court, and by the late Mr. Loren«, as experienced and 
eminent an Advocate as practised before that tribunal, that they 
were of the charact€r above described. We are decidedly of opi- 
nion that they were not ; that they do not even remotely fall with- 
in such a category ; and accordingly that the judgment of the 
District Court should be reversed. 



November il, 1873. 
Present Creasy, C. J., Stewart and Cayley, J. J. 

D. C. Kandy, 475^0. A Rule to revive judgment was made Mortgage, 
absolute by the learned District Judge {VanLangenberg) in 
the following terms : — " This is a rule obtained hy the plaintiff 
upon the 2nd and 3rd defendants, husband and wife, to shew 
cause why the judgment should not be revived, and writs against 
person and property issue for the amount due thereunder. The 
1st defendant is dead, and his estate not represented since judg- 
ment. The 2nd defendant was adjudged an Insolvent and has 
obtained his certificate. The debt, as one provable under the 
Insolvency, is thus,as against the 2nd defendant, discharged; and 
the only question to determine is the liability of the 3rd defend- 
ant The judgment was recorded in July 1867. The original 
' proceedings are not forthcoming — copies have been filed — but 
parties are agreed as to the terms of the judgment and that at 
the date of the sale (September 24, 1867) of the mortgaged pro- 
perty there was due upon the judgment by the defendants jointly 
the sum ai £,2^1 19. The mortgaged property, it is admitted, was 
sold for ;^"iS4, but the 3rd defendant maintains that she and her 
husband are entitled to credit for the whole amount as against the 
shares payable by them upon the judgment. (See memo : A.) 
In this view I cannot concur. The property was held by the 2nd 
and 3rd detendants under a revocable deed from the late ist de- 
fendant, and was mortgaged as security for the debt. The value 
of such security, as realized, should be applied towards satisfying 
the judgment, and for the balance the defendants would be liable 
pro lata. Upon this principle, the balance due will be calculated. 
Rule will be made absolute as against the 3rd defendant with 



K, . <■ 112 "PAKT ni.— 

Noy. II. \ 

Mortgage. costs.and writs will issue for amount balance due upon the judg* 
ment, to be determined as above stated. The 3rd defendant is a 
married woman. Writs against property only will be allowed. 
•Rule as against 2nd defendant will be discharged with costs. 

In appeal, {firenUr for respondent) per Cayley, J. — " Affirmed 
AH three defendants joined in mortgaging the property, treating 
it as if they were all equally interested in it. The mortgaged pro- 
perty was first properly resorted to, and that having been exhaust- 
ed the balance of the debt became recoverable from the defend- 
ants equally." 

Sequestra- D- C -STalMiara, 27597. The plaintiff sold his horse and waggon 
tion at Com. to one Binne Lebbe, the defendant's father-, upon the bill of sale 
Mon Law, ^j^ dated 16th August, 1873. Sinne Lebbe paid only part consi- 
deration-, and on the same day executed a Bond (B) pledging the 
said horse and waggon with plaintiff (or the seonrity of the bal- 
ance purchase money. The Bond, inter alia, recited " and I do 
deposit with the said creditor by way of mortgage and hypotheca- 
tion the said horse and waggon.'" The day after the sale, the de- 
fendant came with a message from his father and removed the 
horse and waggon, promising to return them the next day, which 
he never did. Upon this plaintiff inatittited the present action 
■on the 22ud August and obtained sequestration. It appeared 
that the defendant's father was a pauper, and that th'S was within 
the personal knowledge of the District Judge, who had only a 
few days previously granted him permission to sue in forma 
pauperie. On the 25th August, plaintiff's Proctor moved that 
the horse and wa^'gon, seized under the Requestration, might bo 
given over to the plaintiff on his giving good and sufficient se- 
curity. The motion having been allowed, the defendant noticed 
the plaintiff to shew cause why the sequestration should not be 
set aside and the order of the 25th August cancelled. The after 
proceedings, as recorded-, were as follows i 

August 27th, 187S. 

Mr, Thomasz for defendant moves that the sequestration be set 
aside : (1) because tbe affidavit is insufficient, inasmuch as it is not 
stated that plaintiff has no adequate security ; (i) because it is not 
stated in the affidavit that defendant is fiauJulontly alienating his 
proptrty j (3) because the Bond referred to in the libel has not 
yet become payable, and the action is premature. 

All the objections appear to me to be frivolous. The affidavits clearly 
ttate that the defendant is possessed of no property and with a view to 
defraud the plaintiff he is about to sell the horse and waggon 



DISTEIGT COtTfiTS. US')., 

j Not. rr. 

As regai'do the 3rd objection, it is hardly naoessary to say that the Sequestra- 
plaintiff does not bring his action on the Bond^ He does not put the tion at Com- 
Bond in suit, but he sues the defendant for a wrongful eon.version of mon Law. 
property mortgaged to plaintiff, on the Bond by a third paixty,. 1 
Thomson, 381. Kule discharged with costs. 

(■Signed)' Fbei>. Ja-TSTilbkji. 

Mr. Thomasz moves that the horse and waggon be delivered over 
to the defendant on his giring security. 

Mr. Van Cuylenberg produces Deeds marked A. and B. 

Motion disallowed. This is an action for wrongful con rersiou of 
property, and the Ordinance 15 of 1856, Rule iv does not apply to a 
eise of this kind. Moreover there is no affidavit by the defendant 
and he has not even filedanswer. There is already aprimafaciica,ai 
tot the plaintiff. The deeds produced gp to. shew that the horse an J 
waggoa do not belong to. the defendant. 

(Signed). Fbed. jATETijjEKi;. 

In appeal, Ferdinands, for the appellant, contended that the 
affidavits filed by the plaintiff were inauflScient ander the provi.- 
sions of Ordinance 15 of 1856,. under the 4th section of which 
the defendant was entitled to have the seqaeatratiou dissolved on 
giving the necessary security. Grenier,, for the respondent. — 
The proceedings were not. under the Ordinance but at Comaaon 
Law. 

Per Oatlet, J. — " Affirmed. This is a case of sequestration. 
at common law. The proceedings by which the pi'operty was- 
handed over to the plaintiff may not have been altogether regu.- 
lar, but this Court does not think that any substantial wrong 
has been thereby done to the appellant. This Court also thinks 
that, as the defendant produced no affidavit of any kind befora 
the District Judge,. he was not entitled to obtain possession of 
the articles whickhad already been handed to the plaintiff, who, 
had made out a strong prima facie right to their possession and. 
kad given proper, security." 



D. C. Negombo, S&4S. This was an objection to the assess- objection to 
ment for the maintenance of the Police at Kanowane, under the Assessment 
provisionsof Ordinances I© of 1 86s and S' of i^^?- The plaintiff for Police- 
(Piachaud), actiiig on behalf of Messrs; Arbuthnot and Co., the 
proprietors of the " Ekelle Cinnamon Estate," had in the first 
ihstance unsuccessfully appealed to the Government Agent foe , 
redress on the following grounds : 

I. That the assessment,,if legal.Ji excessive in amount.. 



., f 114 PART 111— 

Nov. II. < 

Objection to *■ That the Police Force in Kanowane has not been quartered or 
Assessment established under the provisions of the Ordinance No. i6 pf 1865. 
for Police. g. That the limits within which such Force is quartered have not been 
fixed in accordance with the provisions of the said Ordinance. 

4. That the consent of two-thirds of the proprietors representing the 
acreage of the alleged limits within which such Force has been quartered 
has not been obtained. 

3. That you have not assessed the proportion in which the cost of the 
alleged Police established at Kanowane is to be paid by the inhabitants 
according to their respective means, — the landed property at K.anowane not 
-being subject to be assessed in respect of the sarid Police. 

At the trial, the plaintiff relied solely on the objection that the 
total amount levied on account of the Police was in excess of the 
actual cost defrayed by Giovernment and that this was illegal 
under the 34th clause of Ordinance 16 of 1865. The District 
Judge {Da-wson) however nonsuited the plaintiff, holding that 
the Government Agent had had no notice of the specific ground 
On which plaintifFs objection was founded. 

In appeal, {Grenier for appellant, the Queen's Advocate for res- 
pondent) per Creasy, C. J. — " Affirmed. Sufficient notice of 
the nature of the objection was not given." 



November 14. 

Present Creasy, 0. J., Stewart and Cayley, J. J. 

Demanding D. C. Jaffna, 605. This was a criminal charge under tht 
reward tore. 2nd Clause of Ordinance 6 of 1850; and the indictment, as pre- 
cover stolen sented by the Queen's Advocate, was to the following effect r 
" That the defendants did, on the second day of July, 1873, un- 
lawfully and corruptly demand from one Venasy Valen a certain 
sum of money, to wit the sum of fifteen rupees, under pretence 
of helping the said Venasy Valen to recover a certain bullock, the 
property of the said Venasy Valen, before then stolen, taken and 
carried away, without having before then procured the appre- 
hension and trial of the offender, against the form of the Ordi- 
nance in such case made and provided." The District Judge, 
(De Saram) held as follows. " The facts of the case appear to 
be these. The first witness loses his bullock on the 30th April, 
1873, and makes search for the animal, but without success. 
It is clear, I think, the animal was stolen from the field where it 
w#5 kept tied. After the lapse of about two months, the second wit- 
ness accidentally meets istprisoner at Chavagacherry, informs him 



DISTRICT CtJITBTS 



115 



cover 
cattle. 



stokm 



> Hov. i^ 

of the loss of 1st witness' bullock, and offers him a reward for Demanding: 
the finding of the animal. No particular amount seems to have reward to re.- 
been mentioned. The first witness, on being afterwards informed 
of this, readily assents to the second witness*^ proposal, and such 
assent is accordingly communicated to the first prisoner. Then it 
appears that, about ten days afterwards, the ftrst prisoner comes 
forward, evidervtiy in pursuance of the reward offered, and pro- 
mises to find the bullock and restore it to the first witness on 
being paid the sura of ifelS. It is for making this demand he is- 
charged. It does not appear that the first prisoner, when first 
spoken to at Chavagacherry, was aware of the loss of the ani- 
mal or its whereabouts;, and if he were bent on making money 
by the alleged illegal proceeding, he would certainly have done so 
at once and not waited for two months. Under these circum- 
stances, I doubt very much whether the charge comes under the 
provisions of the second clause of the Ordinance quoted. The 
accused is accordingly adjudged to be not guilty, and is dis- 
charged." 

In appeal, (^Clarence for appellant, Ferdinands, for respondent), 
per Greasy, C. J. — " Set aside so far as regards ist accused. 
Verdict of guilty to be entered against ist accused, and he is 
sentenced to pay a fine of Es. 200. There is a great difference 
between being rewarded for taking trouble in finding whose a 
bullock is, which has been missed^ and between taking or de- 
manding a reward for procuring the restoration of a stolen bul- 
lock. The demanding of the reward for procuring such restora- 
tion is clearly proved in this case.** 



Deega-mar~ 
tied daugh- 
ter. 



D. C. Kurunegala, 19107. The original owner of the lands in Beena right* 
dispute in this case was Menihettirale, who died intestate, leaving revived in 
three daughters and one son. The plaintiff was one of the daugh- 
ters and the defendant was the widow of the son. The plaintiff's 
sisters had been married in deega, and the plaintiff, alleging that 
she had been married in beena, claimed an undivided half of her 
father's property. Defendant, in her examination, admitted that 
plaintiff had returned with her deega-married husband to the family 
property, Migahamulawatte, but added " plaintiff lives in the same 
garden but in a different housed The learned District Judge {de 
Saram) held the plaintiff's deega ra.arriage proved and proceeded 
to give judgment as follows : 

Thf Court must now consider the next point in the case, and that is. 
whether the plaintiff has not, by having returned from her Deega village aai 



Nov. 14. I 



116 PART iir. — 



Beena rights lived on, one of her father's lands for several years, recovered paraweni right* 
revived in and acquired the rights of a Beena married sister. It is proved that the plain- 
riedfdaiT^h" '"^ ■^^'"■'"ed '» her father's house after her marriage in Deega, that she was, 
ter. ' "'^'^ allowed exclusive possession of ^.of one of. the lands in dispute on which- 

she built a house and in which she has lived ever, since., Tne circumstances 
under which a Deega daughter acquires Beena rights are stated in Armour, 
p. 64-68,. and none of them apply to the plaintiff.. The plaintiff will be en» 
titled to only a life interest in. half the garden, (Armour, p.. 67 j Austin, p. 21, 
D. C. Kandy, Nu. 5137,) unless it was intended that the gift of that garden 
was to be an absolute one: she will then acquire a prescriptive title toil. 
(Austin, p. 82, D. C. Kandy,, No. 166.79). The plaintiff has had exclusive, 
possession of half the garden Migahamulawatta for 15 or 16 years at the 
least, and as the Prescriptive Ord. so strictly defines what adverse possession, 
means, I hold that in the absence of any written agreement regarding the. 
mode of possession intended when half the garden was given to plaintiff, 
and considering the length of time that has elapsed, the gift to have been an. 
absolute one.. Let judgment be entered that the plaintiff be declared entitled 
to the Northern half of the garden Migahamulawatta described in the Libel, 
and that her claim to the rest of the lands be dismissed with costs, The 
defendant to be declared entitled to all the lands in dispute, except the por- 
tions of Migahamulawatta adjudged to be plaintiff's property. 

In appeal, (Grenierior appellant, Ferrfi^a^ifi for respondent) per 
Cayley, J. — " Set aside and judgment entered for plaintiff for an 
undivided moiety of the lands described in the Libel, but without 
damages. It appears to the Supreme Court that the case is sub- 
stantially one in which a deega-raarried daughter returns with her 
husband to the father's house, and in which the father assigns to 
them a part ot his house and puts them in possession of a specific- 
share of his lands.. Incases.of this kind adeega-marrieddaugh-^ 
ter regains her beena rights. See Perera's Armour, p. 64." 



November 18; 

Present Creasy, G. J., Stewart, and Cayley, J. J. 

a-estamping of D. C. Galle, No. 2376u Plaintiff sued on the following docu- 
documents. ment (which was described in the libel as a."paper-writing)" to. 
recover the sum of Rs. 75, with interest at the stipulated rate 
from 9th January, 1.869. 

" I (defendant) have borrowed a sum of j^7 'o^- f™™ Perian Chetty,, 
(plaintiff) on condition to pay the same before the 9th day ot January 
next without interest, and in failure ot so doing to pay the same with, 
interest at the rate of 6d per £ per mensem for the time that shall exEire.- 
kom, such date.." 



DlSTBICT COURTS. ■^■'^ ]n V 1 8 

The defendatrt pleaded " never indebted" and denied Ws alleg- Restamping- of 
"ed signature. On the day of trial, his Proctor objected to the documents. 
(document being received in evidence, on the ground that it was 
?nsuflBciently stamped either as a bond or as a promissory note : 
if it were treated as a bond, a stamp of six pence would be requir- 
-ed, if as a note, a stamp of two pence, whereas in point of fact 
there was only a stamp of one penny impressed on it. The 
iplaintifPs Proctor thereupon undertook to pay the deficiency in 
stamp duty and the prescribed penalty, if the Court held it to 
be a promissory note. The District J adgefRoosmalecocq), holding 
that the document in question was a promissory note and not a 
bond, made order as follows: — " The Court rales it can be so re- 
ceived. Mr De Vos tenders the deficiency in stamp duty and 
the penalty required bythe 39th and 40th clauses of Ordinance 
23ofi87i. Promissory note admitted."" The defendant''s Proctor 
having elected to tall no evidence but to rely on tlie legal objec- 
tion he had raised, judgment was entered for plaintiff with costs. 
The plaintiff now appealed against the order condemning him 
to pay penalty, &c., on tTie ground that the document in ques- 
tion was sufficiently stamped, it being a "note payable on demand 
•and as such requiring a stattip of only one penny, and that his 
fight to sue thereon was in no way limited, the restriction as to 
•time affecting only the liability of defendant to pay or not to pay 
■interest. 

Per Creasy, C. J. — " Affirmed. This is a most impudent 
appeal." 



D. C. Kandy, ^3309. The following judgment of the learned Adoption «in= 
'District Judge {Cayley) explains the case: — der the Kan- 

The sniy question in this case is, whether the ist defendant had proved <lya-n Law. 
■that she was adopted by the deceased Basnaike Nillemey, through whom 
both parties ^laim the ^)roperty in ;dispute. I have no reason to doubt 
the evidence of Nuguwella Ratemahatmeya, corroborated as it is to a 
certain extent by the Dewe Nillemey ; but the question stitl remains whether 
this evidence is sufficient to prove a Legal adoption. It is proved that the 
Basnaike Nillemey had no children of his own, that the i st defendant his 
niece, lived with him from childhood, that he procured both her first and 
■second husbands for her, and that when her hand was solicited by Nuguwella 
for his son, the Basnaike Nillemey stated that he had adopted her, that he 
wished her to inherit his lands, and that accordingly he objected to her being 
married in Deega. It is also stated that the 1st defendant was always 
Tecognised by the family as the adopted daughter of the Basnaike Nillemey. 
The requisites of a valid adoption appear to me to be correctly summarized 



N'OV. t8. i *'^ 'ART Ill.-r- 



''^'Ij°'"th" k""" '" ^'' ^°'°™°"*' " Manual of Kandyan law," (p. 6), and it appearsTrom 
dyan Law"' ^""1°""^^ ^^"^ =''='*' "^a' '<> constitute a valid adoption, no particular for- 
malities or ceremonies are prescribed, but it is necessary that the person 
adopting, and the child adopted, should be of the same caste, and that the 
adoption should be public and formally and openly declared and acknowledg. 
ed. The adoption here was openly declared and acknowledged, but the ques- 
tion is whether the declaration was sufficiently formal and public In 15,769, 
D. C , Kandy, (Austin p, 74) it was laid down, that the adoption should be 
openly avowed : and that it should be clearly understood that the child was 
adopted on purpose to inherit the adoptive parent's property. This seems 
to have been the case in the present instance. But the judgment of the 
Court below in the case, 15,769, held, that there was no evidence of any 
" public declaration or acknowledgment — no cal ling together of any Head- 
men, nor even relations or neighbours, but merely of vague expressions 
made use of in the presence of two or three casual visitors" ; and on this 
ground it was held that the adoption was not proved. This decision does 
not go so far as to determine that there must be evidence of a calling together 
of Headmen, or of relations and neighbours in order to prove a valid adop- 
tion. This would be opposed to the established principle that no special 
formalities are prescribed. It merely shows that some kind of public decla- 
ration and acknowledgment is required and instances <i calling together 
of Headmen or relations as a suitable mode of effecting such publicity. In 
the present case, there were no mere vague expressions made use of by the 
adopting parent in the presence of two or three casual visitors as in the case 
15,769; but, when the hand of the rst defendant was formally sought in 
marriage from the Basnaike Nillemey, he declined the alliance on the ground 
that he had adopted her, that he wished her to live with him and inherit his 
property, and consequently that he objected to any Deega marriage for his 
niece. This was certainly a formal declaration of the adoption, though it 
is not proved that it was made after a calling together of Headmen or re- 
lations (though probably it was made in the presence of many of the latter), 
for the I St defendant was always recognized by the family as the Basnaike 
Nillemey's adopted daughter. There being no special formalities to con- 
stitute a valid adoption prescribed by the law ; some kind of public decla- 
ration only being required ; and as it appears that the Basnaike Nillemey 
himself always considered the ist defendant to have been adopted by 
him, and stated such to be the case at an important family discussion, and 
that the relatives always recognized the 1 st defendant as his adopted daugh- 
ter : I think that it may be presumed that the adoption was sufficiently 
declared and made public to satisfy the requirements of the Kandyan Law, 
with which these people must be supposed to have been acquainted. It is 
also to be observed that the adoption was in every way natural and suitable. 
The I St defendant was niece of the Basnaike Nillemey, was brought up 
by him in his ho u se, was twict given in marriage by him ; and the Basnaike 
Nillemey himself was childless. Judgment will be given for the ist defend- 
ant with costs. The Kornegalle case for the production of which this 



DISTRICT COURTS. 119 



I Nov. l8. 



un- 



juflgmtnt was postponed, is not forthcoming-. Adoption 

In appeal, (Kelly lov appellant, /"eriZ/nirWi for respondent) per dertheKan- 
CrBasy, C. J.—" Affirmed for the reasons given in the judgment ^^^^ ^^'^• 
•by the Court below." 

D. C. Colombo, 62070. The law and facts of the case are fully I^ice Contract, 
set forth in the following judgment of the Supreme Court. Armitage Bros. 

In appeal, {the Queen's Ad-uocate, Grenier with him, for appel- meyanChetty 
lants, Kelly and Ferdinands, for respondent) per Oayi-et, C. J. — 

"Aflfirmed. By contract of 8th October, 1872, the defendant with 
six other persons jointly and severally contracted with plaintiffs 
to take from them t«n thousand bags of rice, at seven rupees per 
bag, the rice to be imported by plaintiffs from Calcutta. A list 
of quantities, (making up the total of 10,000 bags) was written oppo- 
site to the defendant's and his co-contractors' signatures to the 
contract. Plaintiffs agreed to these terms, (see Mr. Newman's 
evidence when cross-examined for the plaintiffs,) and accordingly 
became bound by atontract to supply the defendant and his co-con- 
tfactors with 10,000 bags of rice at Rs.7 per bag. In about a week 
afterwards, and before any breach of the contract by either party, 
the plaintiffs informed the defendant and his co-contractors for 
purchase that they (the plaintiffs) could not carry out the contract, 
and desired them, (i. e. the defendant and his co-contractors for 
purchase,) to enter into a new contract, by which the price of the 
rice was to be rupees seven and 125 cents per bag. We state 
here what we consider to be the effect of Mr. Newman's (one of 
the plaintiffs) evidence as to his conversation with Meyappa Chetty, 
whom he treated with as the organ of communication on behalf of 
the contracting purchasers generally. The plaintiffs required the 
contracting parties to sign a document by which they were to 
agree to pay this advance* price. Five of the originally contract- 
ing purchasers signed'the document (marked C, and dated 17th 
October, rf72). The defendant and one other of the original con- 
tractors did not sign it ; and there was no proof of defendant 
having in any way authorised or assented to it. There was, 
moreover, no proof that the defendant in any way declared any 
intention ofinsisting on the fulfilment of the original agreement of 
October 8th. On the 1 1 th November, the cargo of rice ordered by the 
plaintiffs from Calcutta having arrived, the plaintiffs gave a written 
notice to the defendant, (difecling it to him by name and to six 
Others) announcing the arrival of the rice, and requiring the de- 
fendant to take the rice at fit, 7 and 12^ cents per bag ; that is tb 



Nov. 1 8. [120 PART m.- 

Rice Contract, say, requiring him to take the rice, not under the terms of the docu* 
^"'"f^S^^™*- ment of October 8th, but at the advanced price mentioned in the 
T'elei aiichMu document of 1 7th October. We think that there is in the case 
eeijai ^ abundant proofot an unqualified refusal by the plaintiffs to fulfil 
their part of the contract, — that is, to supply the rice at Ks. 7 per 
bag, the only contract which the defendant had entered into, and 
on which the plaintiffs are now suing. We think that this refusal 
on the part of the plaintiffs, (which was not only unretracted 
when the rice arrived, and when the time first came for the de- 
fendant to perform his part of the obligation, but was confirmed by 
the plaintiffs' letter of nth November) justified the defendant in 
treating the contract of 8th October as rescinded, and in therefore 
omitting to perform it when the plaintiffs, on the 29th of November 
following, endeavoured to revert to it, as they did by their letter of 
that date, and their subsequent letters. (See Ripley v. M'Clure, 
4Exch.34S; Lines v. Rees, i Jurist, p. 593.) We do not feel it neces- 
sary to give any decision as to how far the plaintiffs' right as against 
the defendant was affected by his giving a release by novation 
to the five original contracting purchasers who entered into the new 
contract of October i;th. As this defendant had made himself 
jointly and severally liable, it may be questionable whether he is 
entitled to the privileges of a surety, as relied on in the District 
Court. (See Galle, D. C, 23664, decided in the Supreme Court, 
June I, 1871. See too Vanderlinden's Institutes, p. 270; and 
VanLeeuwen's Commentaries, iv, 4. 8.)" 



Koveniher 21. 

Present Creasy, C. J., Stewart and Cayley, J. J. 

Practice. -D- C. Colombo, No. 61785. On the day fixed for the trial of 

Non-suit, this case, (which involved a dispute as to certain lands,) the 
plaintiff's Counsel offered no evidence and moved for a non- 
suit. The motion, however, having being disallowed, the defend- 
ant's Counsel examined the plaintiff and put in evidence case 
No. S7.163, District Court, Colombo, the decree in which, as 
res judicata, completely estopped the plaintiff's claim. The 
learned District Judge {Ber-wkk) thereupon gave judgment for 
defendant, holding that " when both parties have come on the 
day of trial ready to have their case tried, either may insist on a 
full trial and final judgment to prevent his being harassed 
with further action," 



DISTfilCT COURTS. 121 I j^g^ 21. 

In appeal, {Ferdinands for appellant, Alivis for respondent^ Practice, 
per Stewart, J.— "Set aside. The Supreme Court has carefully Non-suit. 
considered the point of practice involved in this appeal, and has 
also referred to the authorities to which its attention has been 
called in the note with which the learned District Judge has' 
favored it. The passages in the Censura Forensis, part 2, lib. 
25, sect. 6, II, 12, relate entirely to practice and modes of proce- 
dure which have not been adopted in our Courts. Besides, we 
are of opinion that the Rules and Orders for the District Courts 
are not inapplicable to the present enquiry. It is jiecessary to 
premise that the cause was for the first tirrte on the trial roll, 
and had not come on for hearing before. The 8th section of 
the Rules and Orders of June r7th, 1844, enacts as follows : — 
" When the cause has been once withdrawn by the plaintiff 
from the trial-roll and re-entered, and the plaintiff iAa// y^i/ to 
proceed to trial duly after such re-entry, or shall a second time 
withdraw the cause from the trial roll, the Court shall, upon mo- 
tion of the defendant, give judgment against the plaintiff as in 
case of a non-suit, unless good and sufficient cause be shown 
to the contrary." This rule, it will be perceived, contemplates 
the withdrawal of a cause from the trial roll and a re-entry of it ; 
and further provides that not more than a non-s.uit shall be the 
penalty if " the plaintiff shall fail to proceed to trial duly after 
such re-entry, or shall a second time withdraw the cause from the 
trial roll." In the face of such a provision, to hold that, on the 
plaintiff's first default to proceed to trial, the defendant can 
insist on going on and obtaining judgment, would be alike in- 
congruous and opposed to the spirit and obvious intention of the 
rule. Whether the plaintiff has the right of electing to be non- 
suited, after he has a second time withdrawn his cause from the 
trial roll, does not arise for determination. The privilege of a 
plaintiff, by English law, to elect to be non-suited any time before 
the jury have actually delivered their verdict, appears to admit 
of no doubt. See Archbold's Q. B. Practice, vol. i, p. S'S- We 
have also to point out that the defendant has not in the plead, 
ings asked for judgment. His prayer is that the claim of the 
plaintiff may be dismissed, which is not identical with or equiva- 
lent to asking to be declared the owner of the lands in dispute. It 
k accordingly decreed that judgment of non-suit be entered. 
The plaintiff to pay costs in the District Court. Each party to 
bear his own costs in appeal." 



Nov. zi. I ^22 PABT m.- 

Neioember 21. 



risdiction. 



DistrictCourts. -D. C. Negomio, 2?1. The defendant in this ease had" Been 
Criminal Jq- convicted, by the District Judge (Daivson) and three AssepsorSj. 
on a charge of uttering a forged receipt, and sentenced to pay a 
fine of Rs. 250 and to be imprisoned at hard labor for twelve 
months. 

In appeal, [Qrenier for appellant^ Glarence B. Q. A. ior 
resJ)ondent) per Obeaby, C. J. — " The pi'oceedings in this case 
having been read, it is considered and adjudged that th« 
Judgment of the District Court of Negombo of the 2nd .day of 
July, 1 873, be affirmed and the appeal lodged on the 5th July, 
1873, be dismissed. In this ease the appellant prisoner was 
tried and convicted before the District Judge of Negonibo for 
knowingly uttering a forged document purporting to be a re- 
ceipt for money paid. No objection to the jurisdiction was 
made by either side before the District Court ; but the convict- 
ed accused now urges in appeal that the case was beyond tbe 
jurisdiction of the District Court. Generally speaking the 
crime of forgery (under which we are to uoderstand as included 
uttering) is supposed to mean a crime of a keinous nature ; 
being heinous on account of the greatness of the injury 
which ^he specific act in the case causes, if successful ; or on 
account of the general mischief to society, which offences of 
such a class would cause, if they were either passed over with 
impnnity, or if they were visited with slight punishment only. 
Under this latter head, come such cases as forgeries of Bills of 
Exchange, or Promissory Notes, or Bank Notes for smalt 
amounts. In such casas, as the amount is small, the injury tO' 
the defrauded party is not great, but the general mischief 
which would result, if such practices were generally tolerated, 
would be enormous i it would amount to shaking the general 
credit of commercial paper money. These instances are given 
as instances only ? others will be found in the yth chapter of 
Pale/s Moral Philosophy. 'VTithout our assuming to give on 
this occasion an exhaustive list of such forgeries as by reason 
of their heinousuess ought never to be tried before a Court 
which, like our District Courts, cannot inflict very severe 
punishment for them, we consider that none of the undermen- 
tioned forgeries ought to come before a District Court ; and we 
further think that a District Court has no jurisdiction to try 
them under clause 66 of the Ordinance No. 11 of 1868, on which 
the criminal jurisdiction of the District Courts is now founded. 
Of the effect of clause 78 we will speak presently. The follow- 



DISTRICT COURTS. 123 ) j^^^ ^^ 

ing ai-e tbe Documents, or some of the Documents, the forgery DistrictCouits.. 
cf which IB, in our opinion,, an off(>n8e beyond the jurisdiction Criminal Jii- 
of the District Court. Bonds, Bills of Exchange, Promissory f'^''i'="°n- 
Notes, Cheques, Bankeis' Notes, Bills of Lading, Deed o» 
other Document, gifting,, transferring, encumbering,, dividing, 
leasing or creating an interest in any immoveable property, or 
in any way surrendering or extinguishing the same, Partner- 
ship deeds. Wills and Codicils, Powers of Attorney, Entries on 
public Registries, and Certificates of same,, any Process of any 
Court, Marriage Settlements, Ante-Nuptial Contracts, Deeds, 
of Adoption, and any other document similar in character and 
importance to any of those abovemeiitioned. but there is a 
very large class of cases of forgery, in which the immediate 
importance of the document forged is small, and in which there 
is little risk of general mischief being created if the offence ia 
visited by a sentence not very severe. A forged oider for delivery of 
goods of very trifling amount is a familiar instapce. Such an 
offence, if not aggravated by special circumstances,, is essentially 
a case of obtaining money by false pretences, though in form; 
it may be promoted to the bad eminence of forgery^ It would 
be absurd to hold that such a case cannot be adequately punish- 
ed by a year's imprisonment, with lashes not more than fiftyi 
or a small fine superadded, if thought necessary. Consequently,, 
it would be absurd to'deny the District Court jurisdiction over 
such a matter. It would be easy to suggest numerous other 
cases of the same kind,, that is, cases where the ofi^ence is not 
heinous in either of the senses above explained, although the 
formidable title of forgery is, in the language of the law, applied 
to it. The charge on the Record now before us is one for- 
forging and uttering a receipt for the payment of £10. We 
think that the District Court was fully competent to inflict 
adequate and usual punishment for it, and that the District 
Court was consequently fully competent to try it. In the course- 
of the hearing of this case, there was much discussion both by 
Bench and Bar as to the effect of the 78th clause of the Ad- 
ministration of Justice Ordinance of 1868. That clause is as- 
follows:—" Whenever any defendant or accused party shall 
have pleaded in any cause, suit or action, or in any prosecution 
brought in any District Court, without pleading to the jurisdic- 
tion of such District Court, neither party sl.all be afterwards 
entitled to object to the jurisdiction of such Court, but such 
Court shall be taken and held to have jurisdiction over the aame. 
Provided that where it shaU appear in the course of the pro- 



Nov. 21. 



12:4 PART III- — 



sisdiction. 



DistiictCourts. ceedings, that the suit, action or prosecution was brought in st 
Criminal Ju- Court having no jurisdiction by the mutual consent or conni- 
vance of the parties, and with previous knowledge of the want of 
jurisdiction of such Court, the Judge shall be entitled at his 
discretion to refuse to proceed further with the same and to. 
declare the proceedings null and void."^ It was urged on be- 
half of the respondent that the effect of tbe clause is to give full 
jurisdiction to the District Court over any criminal charge 
brought before it, if neither party raises m Zimme an objectioa 
to the j.nrisdictioa, and if the Court does not find in the course 
of the trial that the case has been brought before it by the 
collusive action of the complainant and the defendant, such as 
might occur when both parties desired the defendant to escape 
the heavy punishment which the Supreme Court might inflict by 
incurring liabililsy to the minor terrors of tbe District Court. 
The appellant denied that the effect of the 78tH clause was such 
as suggested ; and it was asked by way of reductio ad absur- 
dnim what would be done with the judgment of the District 
Court on a charge of Murder,, if there had been no objection 
to the jurisdiction raised in the District Coui't itself ? We think 
that a rational and substantial effect may be given to 
the 78th clause without incurring any absurdity such as sug- 
gested, and we still regard the 66th clause as the foundation 
of the Distinct Court criminal jurisdiction. It seems to us 
that the effect of the 78th clause is as follows; neither 
the complainant who has brought a defendant before a Dis- 
trict Court on a criminal charge, nor the defendant who 
has pleaded in the District Court to such a charge without dis- 
puting the jurisdiction, shall afterwards be allowed, either 
by appeal or otherwise,, to dispute the validity of the District 
Court proceedings. As against any objections raised by either 
party under such circumstances,, the words of clause 78 apply, 
and the District Couit ' shall be taken and held to have juris- 
diction in the matter.' The clause goes no further. If the 
charge was one which the District Court under clause 66 had 
no jurisdiction to try, the proceedings are bad, though it does, 
not he in the mouth of eitber of the parties to call them in 
question. We consider that in sucb a case it would be in the 
power, and it would be the duty, of the Supreme Court to quiish, 
the District Court proceedings and to declare them null and 
void for want of jurisdiction. This power is clearly given to 
the Supreme Court by the 22Qd section of the Administi'ation 
ol Justice Ordinance of 1868 ; and it is independent of the 
powers given by clause ly. Clause IS gives the Supreme 



DISTErCT COUETS. 125 If^o^, 2j 

Court an appellate jurisdiction. In addition to thia, clause DistrictCourts. 
22nd enacts that ' the Supreme Court, or any Judge thereof, Criminal Ju- 
shall have full power and authority to inspect and examine the risdiction, 
records of the Original Courts, and to grant and issue accord- 
ing to law Mandates in the nature of writs of Mandamus, Cer- 
tiorari, Procedendo and Prohibition,' The writ of Certiorari 
is one well known to the English Law, and it cannot be doubt- 
ed that when this clause bids us issue these writs of Mandamus, 
Certiorari, Procedendo and Prohibition ' according to law,' it 
bids us to issue these writs according to English Law ; and it 
gives these writs validity according to English Law, the only 
law to which such writs were known. As to tb« power to issue 
these writs, we are in a position similar to that of the Court of 
Qneen's Bench in England and of the Judges of that Court. 
By Certiorari the superior Court can (among other things) 
bring before it the proceedings of any inferior Court, can 
quash them if substantially wrongs and can order in its discre- 
tion what course shall be taken as to their subject matter. Iir 
any grave case of improper criminal trial by a District Court, 
{such as the suggested case of Murder) the Queen's Advocate, 
as the chief legal officer of the Crown, would doubtless bring 
the matter formally before us. Lest what we now say should 
encourage a host of private litigants to try to call judicial pro- 
ceedings in question before us by Certiorari, we will remark 
that the Court, as a matter of judicial discretion, refuses Cer- 
tioraris in cases in which an appeal has been given by law. 
The result of these considerations is that the present appeal 
must be dismissed, both because the case was within the juris- 
diction of the District Court under clause 66 ot the Ordinance 
No. 11 of 1868, and because this accused had under clause 78 
lost his right of appeal by pleading in the District Court with- 
out objecting to the jurisdiction." 



November 25. 

Present CeEasy, C. J., Stewaet and Catlet, J. J. 

D. C. Colombo. 59406. The plaintiff (as payee) sued on a promissory 
Promissory Note, without however inserting in the Libel the Note. 
uaual money counts. The defendant pleaded •' never indebt- 
ed" and that it was an Accommodation Note. The plaintiff had 
discounted the Note at the Bank of Madias, and on its falling 
due had retired it himself, the defendant having failed to pay 



XI . ,- } 126 PART III.— 

Nov. 25. j 

Promissory "?■ Tlje Note bore the following eudursements •; 
Not«- Piiy the Bank of Madras or order 

p. p. A. Coos Mobamado (Plaintiff) 
J> F. MnUer. 
Received paymeut for the Bank of Madras 
0. B. MiKUS, 
Acting Agent at Colombo. 

The Bistvtct Judge (Berwieh) held that the note, having been 
■originally endorsed by the payee to the Bank of Madras or order^ 
«uuld not pass back to him by mere delivery ; that the memo- 
randum endorsed by the Bank was a mere receipt foi' payment 
and not an endorsement in blank; and ikat the plaintiff, there- 
fore, had no title to sue. Plaintiff was aucordingly non-suited. 

In appeal, (Browne for appellant, Kelly for respondent) per 
Ckbasv, 0. J. — " Set aside and case sent back for further hear- 
ing. The plaintiff's right, as payee of the note, to sue the 
maker was not taken away by the plaintiflf having discounted 
and afterwards taken up the note, as appears to have been the 
case. The plaintiff was the holder of the note when he sued on 
it. In Older to make the transfer by the plaintiff to the Bank 
<jf Madras a valid defence, the delendant should have been able 
to aver and prove that the note at the time of action brought 
was outstanding in the hands of a third party, who had then 
a right to sue the defendant on it. The fact of the temporary 
transfer to the Bank having been by full endorsement and not by 
blank endorsement, is immaterial so far as regards the defend- 
ant's liability as maker to the plaintiff as payee. See Smith's 
Mercantile Law, 8th edition, page 257 ; Kent's Commentaries 
vol. 3. p. 117 and note, edition of 1858 ; Eraser v. Welch, 8 jj 
and W, 629 ; Pearson's edition of Chitty's Pleading, p, 284 
and note; Woodward v. Pell, 38 Law Journal, Q. B. 30. The 
pleadings in this case are irregular on both sides and have 
caused us serious embarrassment. The plaintiff does not state 
in what capacity he sues. His libel does no more than say that 
the defendant is somehow indebted to him on the annexed 
note. On the other hand, the defendant's plea of ' never in- 
debted' is, in general, a bad plea to a count on a bill or note, 
and none of the special pleas raises the defence which we 
now are called on to consider. But we think that we may 
apply this plea of ' never indebted" to the plaintiff's aver- 
ment that the defendant was indebted to him ; and if we are 
to look to the annexed note in order to give sense to the defective 
libel, we may do the same in order to give sense to the defeo- 



DISTRICT COURTS. 127 l ^^^^ 2^., 

tive plea. But this faulty and confused kind of pleading is 
very objectionable j and as both parties are to blame, we think 
that each party ought to pay his own costs of appeal ; and 
that the costs of the day in the Court below should be costs 
in the cause." 



D.G. Colombo, Nos. 1752, 1515, 2239, 1466, and 1418. AH DistrictCourts^, 
these were appeals, on the part of the Queen's Advocate, -"J^'.^on * 
against refusals by the District Judge of Colombo to try crimi- 
nal cases which had been brought before him, his reason for re- 
fusing to try them being alleged want of jurisdiction. 

The judgment of the Supreme Court was delivered by the 
Chief Justice as follows : " The clause of the Administmtion of 
Justice Ordinance, 1 1 of 1868, on which the Criminal Jurisdiction 
of District Courts depends, is the 66th clause. Its words are as 
follows : ' Each of the said Courts shall have full power and 
authority, and is hereby required to hear, try, and determine all 
crimes and offences committed wholly or in part within the' 
district to which such Court may belong, which by any law in 
force in this Colony are or shall have been made cognisable by 
a District Court, and also all crimes or offences so committed as 
aforesaid for which no express punishment is or shall have 
been provided by such law, and which are not usually punish-> 
able by death, transportation or banishment,' or by any 
severer panishment than those hereinafter mentioned; and 
also all crimes and offences so committed as aforesaid which 
shall by such law be punishable by no higher punishment than 
those hereinafter mentioned, that is to say imprisonment fox a 
period of one year, fine or forfeiture to the- amount of one 
nundred pounds, and corporal punishment to the extent of fifty 
lashes.' No. 1515, No. 1752 and No. 2239, are Cattle-stealing 
cases. District Courts have jurisdiction expressly given to them 
by Ordinance 6 of 1850 to try cattle stealing cases ; and there- 
fore these cases come precisely within the words of the 66tb 
clause of Ordinance II of 1868, which not merely authorise but 
require District Courts to try all crimes and offences committed 
within their Districts, which by any law in force within this' 
Colony are or shall have been made cognisable in a District 
Court. The test laid down by the Supreme Court, about ascer- 
taining jurisdiction from the probably adequate amount of 
punishment, refers to cases of assault, stabbing, and other cases 
where the jurisdiction of the District Court attaches solely be- 



Nov. 25. { ^^8 ^^^"^ *"'— 

DistrictCouits. cause the offence ig one which the District Court can adequately 
Criminal Jq- punisb. It does not apply to cases where an Ordinance has ex- 
lisdiction, pressly given the District Court jurisdiction over this offence. 
In case No. 2239j the indictment charged cattle stealing only, 
and the District Court was bound by law to try the case. The 
true effect of clause 78 in Ordinance 1 1 of 1868 has been explain^ 
ed in the recent decision of this Court in the Negombo District 
Court case No. 221. The extra charges in the indictment in case 
1752 about breaking into a stable and stealing carts as well as 
cattle, could not elevate that case above the jurisdiction of the 
District Court. In these three cases, thereforcj the judgments 
of the District Court are set aside, and the cases are to be sent 
back for trial in the District Court; Nob. 1466 and 1418 are 
Stabbing cases to which the abovementioned test applies, of as- 
certaining the proper amount of punishment according to the 
case as it appears on the depositions^ and of holding the case to 
be within, or not within, the jurisdiction of the District Court, 
according as the amount of punishment which a District Court 
can inflict, appears to be adequate or inadequate to the case, if 
proved according to the depositions. There are extreme cases 
either way, which it is very easy to determine. A knife may 
have been almost thoughtlessly drawuj and used in a hasty 
brawl, and the injury done may have been extremely slight. No 
District Court would consider itself incompetent to deal with 
such an offence. On the other ha'ndj there may be a stabbing 
case, so seriousj and attended with circumstances of so much 
malignity and brutality; that no District Court would think of 
trying it. But there must be a large middle class of cases as to 
which opinions may fairly difler : and we never would lightly' 
interlere with a District Judge's discretion. The two cases now 
before us come from this kind of debateable ground. If the 
learned District Judge had tried them, we should not have set 
the trials aside, or blamed him. But it does not follow that we 
should enforce their trial before him. We are by no means 
convinced that they were clear cases for his jurisdiction ; on the 
contrary, we are disposed to agree with him in holding, that the 
District Court's capacity for inflicting punishment is not com- 
mensurate with their heinousness, supposing the depositions to 
be true: We therefore in No. l-i66 and No. 1418 afftrm the 
District Court decision." 



DISTKrCT COUETS. f x, ^ 

J NOVR. 20. 

No'vember 26. 

Present Creasy, C. J., Stewart and Cayley, J. J. 

O. C. Colombo, No. 60,664. The 1st plaintiff, as proprietor of The Plumbago 
a certain land in Dedigomuwa, in theHewagam Code, under and case, 
by virtue of a Crown grantdated 12th October, 1835, and the other 
plaintiffs, as lessees under him, complained that the Government 
Agent of the Western Province had unlawfully detained eighty 
tons of plumbago which had been dug out of the said land, claim- 
ing a royalty thereon of Hs. 10 per ton, which the plaintiffs refused 
to pay, denying the right of the Crown to levy such royalty on 
private lands. The defendant {the Queen's Ad-vocate) in his An- 
swer alleged that the Crown by its prerogative had the right to 
levy the royalty in question. On the issue thus raised the case went 
totrial, and the learned District Judge (fiirrxtizV/f) held as follows : 

14th March, 1873. 

The question at stake in this case is the right of the Crown to 
exact a royalty on Plumbago dug from private lands. The great 
increase in the commercial value of this mineral in this country, 
renders the question one of great importance. The first ground 
on which thedaim of the Crown is put forward is special to the 
particular case before the Court; and depends on the terms of the 
Crown grant by which the Plaintiff has his title to the land : but 
I am of opinion that the claim on this ground is not tenable. 
The condition of the grant on which the Crown depended is in 
these words — " that the said (grantee) shall from and after the 
(date of the grant) pay or cause to be duly paid to the use of His 
Majesty one full tenth (i-ioth) part and no more of the produce 
thereof as the Government share or rent thereof (viz. of the land), 
subject nevertheless to such general regulations as Government 
shall hereafter establish." This grant bears date 12th October, 
1835, and it does not contain that clause of reservation of mines 
and minerals which is inserted in recent Crown grants : though, 
if it did, it would still have remained a question what minerals 
are comprehended under the general reservation; for example, 
whether it extends to stone or cabook quarries, kirimittie or por- 
celain clay, (which exists abundantly in the Island and will pro- 
bably someday become ot commercial value) — coal, should it ever 
be found, &c. The words of this grant, " one-tenth of the pro- 
duce" of the land, must be interpreted in connexion with the rest 
of the document. Now, the document states the motive for the 
grant to have been the desire of His Majesty's representative, 
by whom it was made, " to encourage the cultivation of lands," 



NoyR.26.] ^ fAETiii.- 

The Plumbago and it seems to me clear that the reservation to the Crown of one« 
case. tenth of the produce meant one tenth of the produce of such cul-. 

ti-uation, namely agricultural cultivation. Further, the real in- 
tention receives light from the laws which at the time regulated the 
interest of the Crown in the " produce" of land, or in other words 
which regulated the Government Revenue from lands. These 
laws were the Proclamations of 3rd May, 1800 ; 3rd September, 
l8ol ; 22nd April, J803 ; 14th January, 1826; which (firstly) have 
never, either by judicial decision or revenue usage, been applied 
to any other than agricultural or arboricultural produce ; and 
which (secondly) are all founded on the ancient tenure of land in 
Ceylon, which never embraced anything beyond the rendering 
of such produce and of personal services. On the subject of the 
Government tithes of produce of land, reference may be also 
made to Grotius' Introd. 2,45,4 (Herbert's translation, p. 254). 
I come now to the other and wider ground on which the claim 
to royalty is founded, namely the Crown prerogative, and which 
affects not merely this but aU private lands, whether held under 
grant irom the Crown or otherwise. It was virtually admitted 
at the Bar that such a prerogative could not be maintained in 
England ; (see the case of Saltpeter in 12 Coke's Reports) ; but 
even if the English law did confer it, it would not matter, 
as the prerogative of the Crown in matters not essential to the 
maintenance of political sovereignty, and especially in what are 
called the "minor regalia," does not extend beyond the realm. 
See Lord Brougham's judgment in Mayor of Lyons vs. East 
India Company in i Moore's Privy Council Reports, p. 283. We 
have, therefore, to consider whetiier it exists as part of the law of 
the United Provinces, commonly called the law of Holland. Now, 
at the outset, we meet with a remarkable discrepancy between the 
English law and the Civil law. Under the English law, it is stated 
to be " quite clear that by his prerogative the King is entitled to all 
mines of gold or silver which may be discovered, not only in his 
own, but even in a subject's lands within his dominions."* Chitty 
on the Prerogative, p. 145. But the Civil law appears to differ 
(1st) in not limiting the King's interest (whatever be its amount) 
to mines of the precious metals : thus Voet, 49,14,3, says, ar- 
gentarIjE, id est, argenti fodinae ; sed specie posita pro genere, 
sic ut omnis generis mctalli Jodinae contineantur ; (2) in limiting 
the quantity of his interest to a certain definite portion, as a 

* But not mines of other metals and minerals. The expression " domi- 
nions" is probably too large. See the Privy Council case already cited. 
The reference in Chitty to the Jth Vol. of Bacon's Abridgment is errone- 
ous : it should be Vol. VI, B. 8. 



'{ 



NovR. 26. 



fifth or a tenth, &c, of the metals dug from private lands. Voet The Plumbago 
ad Pand. 49,14,3. At least, Voet supports this as the more correct '^^^^ 
opinion. But Voet only speaks of metals, — and plumbago is not 
a metal, but almost entirely a form of pure carbon with very little 
admixture (and that not a chemical mixture) of iron. But the 
principle of the Civil law appears to extend beyond metals pro- 
perly so-called to minerals generally. Thus we find the following 
passage in the Code, under the title, De melallariis et metallis. 
" Cuncti qui per pri-vatorum loca saxorum •uenam laboriosU 
effossionibus persequuntur decimasfisco, decimas etiatn domino re- 
proesentent : caetero modo propriis suis desideriis •vindicando." 
Code, 11,6,3. And in another law, under the same title de metal- 
lariis et metallis, marble is included, 1 1,6,6. Now it is true that 
I find that Groenewegen, in commenting on this passage, says that 
this title of the Code has become obsolete, but then he immediately 
gives the reason, nanrely quia apud nos non sunt metalli fodinae ; 
wherefore where this reason fails, as where metals or minerals of 
commercial value arefound to exist, for example in the Dutch Colo- 
nies, as in Borneo, Sumatra, &c. (and the Malay Archipelago 
abounds with tin), where the Dutch law does not expressly pro- 
vide for the case, there can be no doubt that we must be governed 
by the imperial Civil law ; and according to it, if I put the right 
construction on this title of the Code, the Crown is entitled to a 
tenth share not only of metals but of what comes under the 
same legal (though not chemical) class, namely minerals of special 
commercial value dug on private lands. I therefore think that I 
must support the claim of the Crawn as one of its minor regalia 
in this Colony, and will dismiss the claim of the plaintiff : but as 
the question was a fair one to try at ' law, and as the whole 
question of the Crown's rights is by no means free of difficulty and 
doubt, parties will bear their own costs. I may add that I would 
strongly recommend that the opinion of the Appellate Court 
should be taken, and would very much regret if a point of so 
much difficulty and importance were left on my own single opmion^ 

31st October, 1873, 

Ihavehappenedto light on a passage in Voet which throws some 
light on the subject of the decision irL the above case, now in ap- 
peal, viz., the prerogative right claimed by the Dutch Govern- 
ment in their Colonies, with respect to minerals, and which 
contains the Dutch text of a Regulation or Ordinance on 
the subject. I therefore append this Note, contain.^ 
ing a reference to the passage and my translation of tht 
Dutch text, in order to assist the Supreme Court in theit decision.' 



NorR.26.} ^ ^AKT in.— 

ThePlumbago of the case. In Lib. xli, tit. I, § 13, (Com. ad Pand.) Voet,— deatiirg, 
case. not witfi the question of 7?(3>ia/^, which is the subjecH of this suit, 

but of the ownership of minerals, — first states that mines of 
metal, gems newly found or dug, and the like, belonged by the Civil 
Law to the owner of the ground in which they were found, and 
passed to purchasers and usufructuaries, and then adds that now 
they are in many places claimed by the Fisc, but that it would 
not be altogether safe to assert that this would be done in the 
States of the Belgian Federation, if it should ever happen that 
such things — hitherto unknown there — should be discovered, see- 
ing (he says) that the distinctions made by the Civil law in 
respect to treasure trove are generally considered as still approved 
as law among us, and especially considering that clay adapted for 
pottery and even sandpits pertain to the owners of the fields con- 
taining them ; and — passing over stone quarries and fictile 
clays (fit for making bricks?) — that it does not appear that in the 
neighbouring Government of Utrecht the Fisc claims the diamonds 
occasionally found in the hills of Amersfurt, though indeed (this 
may be owing to the fact that) they are of trifling value compared 
to those imported trom abroad. But as regards mines of metal and 
gempits discovered by the subjects of the Belgic Confederation 
in i?/<;?ia, the rigl»t to these is claimed by Go-vernment, and it is, 
inter alia, enacted in the order for the Government of the West 
Indies of the 13th October, 1629, art, 24, 25, 26, (s/ol. 2 of the Ordi- 
nances of Holland, p. 130) as follows : — (Here follows the Dutch 
text which I proceed to translate literally) ; — " that all recently 
found minerals and mines that may hereafter be discovered, 
whether of gold, silver, copper or any other metal, as also of pre- 
cious stones, diamonds, rubies, and the like, together with the 
pearl-fisheries and amber collections, shall only be worked by 
or on behalf of the Company and for their profit. But if any of the 
inhabitants or of the garrisons or colonists or others of whatever 
race or condition shall happen to find any of the foresaids, they, 
their heirs or representatives shall have, as recompense and 
reward, one twentieth part of the clear (suyver) proceeds of the 
said gems, mines or pearl-fisheries, and that for the period of 
the first five years, reckoning from the day when the Com- 
pany has undertaken their working, and also the twentieth share 
of amber, &c." It appears from the above that,in its Colonial 
possessions,the Dutch Government claimed more than a Royalty, 
viz., the actual property of ( 1st) all metals, and (2) oi precious 
minerals and certain other rare and precious commodities : that 
the law as to the title of any that might be found in Holland it- 
self was open to question, owing to their absence from the soil of 
that country, so far as known, having prevented the question 



DISTftlCT COURTS, 



< NOYR. 20-- 



arising ; but that stone quarries and useful days, &c. in Holland The Plgtmbago. 
belonged entirely to the owner of the soil, without mention of case- 
royalty. On the other band, all ntines and minerals appertain by 
the Civil law to the owner of the soil, subject however to a Royalty 
in favor of the Fisc of one-tenth from all (whether of the p recious 
class or not) which are regularly worked by labour — as appears 
from the passage in the Code on which the judgment is based. 
In appeal, Fitzroy Kelly, for the plaintiff and appellant : — 
The first question is by what law this matter is to be deter- 
mined ? The British Sovereign cJaims no such right in her realm 
of England as that here set up. This is in fact admitted on 
the part of the Crown. Then what is there in Ceylon to give 
the British Sovereign a larger right ? What is the prerogative 
law in regard to dominions obtained by cession ? From the follow- 
ing authorities, Chitty on the Prerogative, p.p. 25, 26, 32, Blanchard 
V, Galdy, 2 Salkeld, p. 411, the statement in 2 Peere Williams, p. 
75, and the case of the Mayor of Lyons v. East, India Company,. 
I Moore's P. C. C, p. p. 274, 283, it seems that in the circumstances, 
mentioned the Crown succeeds to the rights of the ceding ruler» 
but that English prerogative rights are not ipso facto introduced 
into the new dominion. iVtany of them would be wholly unsuited 
to the eharacter and circumstances of the ceded country. Of 
course they can be introduced by positive enactment. But then 
they take effect by the statute law, not by the prerogative as part 
of the common law. In the case cited from Moore, it was argued 
that the prohibition against aliens to hold land in England, which 
is considered to be an incident of the English prerogative, applied 
to Bengal. But Lord Brougham, in delivering the judgment of 
the Privy Council, rejected this view altogether, holding that the 
prerogative rights of the Crown would not necessarily attach to a 
country acquired by conquest, but required to be expressly intro- 
duced ; excepting, of'course, such prerogative rights as are essen- 
tial to the sovereignty of the governing power, which are not 
affected by the present question, as the minor rights^ varying^ 
much in different countries, are alone being considered. But it 
does not follow that the point is to be determined, and the rights 
of the Crown to be measured, by the Dutch Law. Ceylon never 
formed part of Holland any more than Bengal formed part of 
England ; both were acquired, so far as they were acquired, by 
conquest; and the Dutch East India Company held about as pre- 
carious a tenure in this Island, as the British East India Company 
in the early days held on the continent of India. The same prin- 
ciple that forbad the introduction of the English prerogative, 
.otherwise than by positive legislation, into Bengal, would forbid 
'he introduction of the Dutch prerogative, otherwise than by posi- 



^, <; 1 E PART HI- — 

NOVR. 20. > 

ThePlumbagotive legislation, into Ceylon. Now there is no proof of any such 
case.. legislation having taken place here,: — no proclamation, placaat, or 

ordinance, to that effect. In the absence of any such enaclment» 
the natives of this country, during the Dutch occupation, must, 
on the principles that have been stated, have remained subject only 
to such prerogative burdens, as they had sustained under their 
own Sinhalese Sovereigns. The fact, if it be a fact, that land in 
Holland was subject to this fiscal imposition, would not render 
Sinhalese estates in Ceylon Ifable to it, as a necessary consequence 
of their being under the Government of a Dutch Trading Company. 
The appellant, however, does not admit that such a prerogative- 
right ever existed in the seven United Provinces of the Dutch 
Republic. They were governed by their own laws and customs,, 
and the Roman law was never bodily incorporated with this local 
jurisprudence, or substituted for it. The Courts were permitted' 
to refer to it when the local law was silent,, and as the respect for it! 
increased, it became usual to apply it to cases for which no pro- 
vision had been made by the local law. It was introduced, as 
the Jurists tell us, in subsidium., (see Van Leeuwen's Introd., 
p p. 5. to 9 ; Vander Keessel, Thes. Sel., xix to xxii.) ; and it 
was never admitted when at variance with the analogy of the- 
local law, or depending on a different system of government. 
There could be no analogy between the Dutch free system of 
Government and the despotism of the Roman Empire. The 
introduction by implication of prerogative claims and fiscal bur- 
dens which had been borne by the slavish subjects of Constanti- 
nople or Rome, would not have been very cordially welcomed by a 
people who especially required their Counts to establish no new 
taxes or impositions without the consent of the States. Grotius, 
in his introduction. Cap. XIV, sec. 2, tells us that the^'ai decima- 
rum, or right of the Counts of Holland to the] tenth of fruits, was 
granted to them for the support of their station, by virtue of 
the old German Law which was older than Christendom. It is 
not likely that a nation who announced that " King Philip, in 
consequence of his having violated the laws of the country, had 
conformably to the laws truly forfeited his principality" would 
have patiently submitted to fiscal confiscations unknown to their 
fathers. The jealousy with which they viewed the governing, 
power may be seen from the restrictions imposed on the Prince 
of Orange when chosen to be " the protector of the liberty of 
the Netherlands." (See Motley's Rise of the Dutch Republic, III. 
p. 418.) Is it likely that they wculd have viewed with equanimity 
a claim on his part to prerogative exactions, traced to the Roman, 
Despots, which would have tended to make him independent of 



DISTRICT COURTS. F 5 nt r 

< NOVR. 26, 

t^e sappfies under the control of the States? Groenewegen in The Plumbago 
his treatise de Legibus Abrogatis, p. 798, referring to the Code, "^^e. 
Lib. XI, tit. 6, expressly says that this right of the Emperor to a 
■royalty of a-tenth on the produce of mines, &c, is not in force in 
Holland. He suggests a reason, viz, that there are no mines for it 
to operate upon. We may accept the fact without regarding the 
reason as the only one that could be given. Whether, if there 
had been mines in Holland, the Dutch would have allowed the 
■claim, may be open to conjecture ; but at any rate, one thing is 
Q.txX2Mi,'i!!\sX.theclaimivasnot in force. How then can the Dutch 
conquests in Ceylon have imposed on their Sinhalese subjects a 
law which was unknown in both countries, a law which was an 
historical curiosity, interesting to students like Groenewegen and 
Voet, when commenting on a system of jurisprudence which had 
been in a great measure introduced in subsicUum into their own, 
but which had no significance to the practical world around them ? 
In the passage referred to by the learned District Judge, Voet 
ad Pand., xlix, 14^ 3, the author seems to be mentioning the 
Regalia that anciently belonged to the Emperor rather than posi- 
tively declaring that they were enjoyed by the Stadtholder. It 
is for the Counsel for the Crown to produce any positive enact- 
ment of the law of Holland on the subject, if such there be. In the 
absence of any, it is submitted that the principle which con- 
strues penal laws and fiscal regulations in favour of the subject, 
should reject the implication of a right to confiscate a portion 
of the subject's property never in force in Holland, whatever it 
may have been in the Roman dominions. It may be admitted 
that there are passages in the Roman law books which favour 
the supposition that some such burden was imposed _ under the 
Empire. But these are few, and not altogether clear or consistent; 
and it seems to be daubtful whether the Roman Emperors claimed 
the whole or a portion of the minerals, and if a portion only, what 
reference it bore to the whole. The statement of Van Leeuwen, 
that " metallorum nomine saxum etiara intelligitur" gives the claim 
such a remarkably wide extent, that the circumstance of its never 
having been enforced in Holland or Ceylon derives an additional 
argument against the existence of the right. It is submitted 
that Sinhalese estates are not liable to all the burdens and fiscal 
regulations of the old Roman Empire. 

The Queen's Advocate, contra. — There was no doubt that, under 
the old Roman Law, the Crown was entitled to a royalty of i-ioth 
on all mines and minerals. This was clearly laid down in the 
Corpus Juris Ci-vilis, Code, II, 6, 3. and the learned Editors of the 
edition he was quoting from— Van Leeuwen apd Gothefred, both 



,, ) G PART III 

NovR 26. j^ 

The Plumbago eminent Dutch Lawyers, — in their marginal comments, instead 
case. of showing that this rule was not adopted by the Roman Dutch 

Law, rather amplified the purport of the p.issage— :" Metallorum 
nomine saxa etiam intelliguntur" Admitting, therefore, that this 
right was recognized by the Civil Law, the question remained was 
it adopted in the Roman Dutch Law ? He contended that it was 
for his learned friend to show that it was not, rather than for 
him, (the Queen's Advocate) to show affirmatively that it was. 
What was the Roman Dutch Law ? Van Leeuwen (Commen- 
tarres, p. 2) points out that the Roman Law was, in his time, 
observed as the Common Law of Nations and adopted in all cases 
in which the special laws of any state made no provision ; that 
even in such cases the special laws were to be so far restrained 
" that the Roman Law might be injured as little as possible," — 
adding " it is so used and observed in our Netherlands, as is 
testified by Grotius, iVlerula and other writers." So Vanderkees- 
sel in his Theses Selecta:, p. 6. — " Laws and local customs, whe- 
ther general or particular, entirely failing, we ought to recur to 
the Roman Law and seek a decision thence. Nor could it pro- 
perly be required that the use or adoption of the Roman Law on 
that particular point should have been confirmed by some deci- 
sion." So Vandei linden (p. 57) on failure of any general law 
or local ordinance or custom, " the Roman Law, as a model of 
wisdom and justice, is called in to supply the casus omissus." 
A host of authorities might be quoted to the same effect. There 
being no special law in Holland respecting mines and minerals, 
the Roman I^aw therefore applied ; — and, if so, it was for his op- 
ponent to show that it afterwards ceased to be in force. Groenewe- 
gen was the only authority cited to this effect, and his reason for 
saying that it was not in- force was that there were no metals in 
Holland — not that it was repealed or that it was opposed to any 
law or custom in Holland. The learned writer seemed only to 
have meant that, as no mines had been discovered, the law had not 
been put in force. Voet, who always pointed out where the Roman 
Law did not apply moribus nostris, was silent on this point when 
he spoke of Regalia. The next question was, admitting that this 
branch of th*; law was in force in the United Provinces, was it in- 
troduced into Ceylon ? The old rule was well established that, in 
countries obtained by cession, the ancient laws continued in force 
until they were altered by the conqueror. But so far from those 
laws being altered, their validity and efficacy were confirmed 
by the local Proclamation of September 1799 and the Ordinance 
No. 5 of 1835. There was no authority for the distinction 
drawn by his learned friend between prerogative and other laws. 



" f Norn. iS. 

AH the laws and institutions of the. United Provinces came into The Pluraiag* 
force, unless it was made clear that any branch of them was not *^**" 
Introduced or introduced only in a modified form. Herein was 
ihe great distinction between the present case and that of the 
Mayor 'of Lyons, vs. East India Company, reported in Moore. 
In that case the question was, wliether that branch of the English 
,law which incapacitated aliens from Tiolding real property for their 
own use, and transmitting it by descent and devise, had ever been 
introduced into the East Indies i The East Indies was a coun- 
try which had a government of its own, and the English, like 
other nations, were permitted to effect a settlement by permission 
■of the government, and were therefore not originally in a position 
to carry this branch of their law with them. The settlement gra- 
dually gained dimensions, and rights of sovereignty were not as- 
sumed till lon^ after. But in several Acts passed by the English, 
reference was made to the subjects of other countries whose rights 
were reserved. It was clear, tlierefore, that the English did not 
carry «r mean to carry with them this branch of the law, which 
after all was only a rule of municipal law and not a right incident 
to sovereignty. Nothing of the kind could be predicated as respects 
plumbago. The right of the Crown could not be asserted until the 
existence of mines was known, and it was only within recent 
years that such was the case. The Crown had done nothing before 
to give up its right, and, if it were a right of sovereignty, it was not 
now too late to declare the law and enforce the right. He would 
lastly refer to Thurburn v. Stewart (5 Moore) in which the Privy 
Council held that the Placaat of Charles V, of 1540, which 
was not acted upon at the Cape, did nevertheless not lose its 
force there — a principle which to come nearer home this Court had 
held lately in the Mortmain case. Into the arguments as to how 
far the free government .of the United Provinces was likely to 
borrow the iprerogative and fiscal laws of ancient Rome, he, (the 
Queen's Advocate,) did not Jthink it necessary to enter, as they 
did not affecst the legal merits of the question before the Court. 

The following is the judgment of the Supreme Court as delivered 
by the Chief Justice. 

Judgment nffirmed. — In this case the Government,as represented by the 
Queen's Advocate, contends thatit has a right to levy a tithe or a royalty of 
i-Toth on the produce of Plumbago -mines in private lands. 

The plaintiffs deny the existence of buch a right. No other point was 
made the matter of substantial discussion by either party before us. It is a 
single-qiiEstion that we have to iconsider ; but that question is a very serious 
one^ inasmuch as Plumbago, though fill lately little noticed or sought for 
in Cejilon, ie now becoming an article of great commercial value ; and 



NovR. 26. 1 ^ 



PArtT III.- 



The Plumbago mining operations in order to obtain it have been commenced in many parts 
case. of the island. 

Agreeing with the learned District Judge as to the question being avery 
important one, we wish, in consequence of some expressions in the early 
part of his judgment, to guard ourselves against being supposed to ad- 
judicate on this occasion on Crown rights generally to a roycilty over 
all products of the earth (other than living vegetable products), which may 
be dug or otherwise extracted from the soil. Cases as to many of them 
(should such cases arise) might have, and probably would have their own 
special circumstances, which would require special consideration. 

The facts of the present case are very simple indeed. It is only necessary 
to observe of the grant of the land in question from the Crown(under which 
grant the plaintiffs claim to dig and appropriate the plumbago without 
yielding tithe or royalty) that the grant contains no reservation to the 
Crown of mines and minerals ; and that, on the other hand, the grant con- 
tains no words which could divest the Crown of its right to a royalty or tithe 
on minerals, supposing such a right to exist. 

The first thing to be ascertained in this case is, whether the question 
is to be determined according to English Law, or according to Roman. 
Dutch Law. It is conceded on the part of the Crown, that, if English Law is 
to rule, the Crown cannot maintain its present claim. But it is contended 
that the case must be judged according to Roman-Dutch Law ; and we 
think this contention is right. 

Ceylon became a Crown Colony of the British by conquest and cession. 
The usual rule is that the ancient laws of a CoMny in such a case continue, 
until they are altered by the conqueror. (See the 5 th proposition affirmed 
by Lord Mansfield in the great case of Campbell v. Hall, Cowper's Reportsi 
vol. i,p. 2D9). Unquestionably the old laws and institutions of Holland 
more correctly termed the laws and institutions of the Seven United Provin- 
ces, were the old laws which the English found in existence here, when the 
Colony passed from the Dutch to the English. (As the land in question is 
not within the Kandyan Territories, there is no need to encumber the case 
with Kandyan law.) Moreover by Royal Proclamation, when the English 
took possession of Ceylon, it was ordered that the temporary administration 
of Justice and Police should, as nearly as circumstances would permit, be 
exercised in conformity to the laws and institutions that subsisted under 
the ancient Government of the United Provinces ; and in 1835, ^7 Ordi- 
nance No. 5 of that year (confirmed by - the Crown), it was declared 
that " the laws and institutions, which subsisted under the ancient Go- 
vernment of the United Provinces, shall coniiime to be administered, subject 
nevertheless to such alterations as have been or shall be hereafter by lawful 
authority ordained." 

Taking it then as clear that this ease is to be adjudicated on according 
to the laws and institutions of Holland as they subsisted and subsist 
here, we look to the Advocate for the Crown for proof chat a claim to the 



DISTKICT COURTS. J 1 NoVR. 26. 

royalty in question is maintainable here according to those laws and in. ThePlumbago 
stitutions. case. 

To do this, there must be satisfactory reason shewn for believing, 
ist. That the old Roman Law recognised the existence of such a right 
as is now claimed ; 

2ndly. That such part of the old Roman law had been recognised and 
adopted in Holland ; and 

3rdly, supposing these two first points be allowed, that such part of 
the Roman-Dutch law was portion of the laws and institutions which 
subsisted under the Dutch Government in Ceylon. 

The learned Counsel for the plaintiff has, very fairly, insisted on all 
these three points being established before the judgment against his client 
can be affirmed. His chief contention was as to the 2nd and 3rd points. 

There was not much dispute about the old Roman law itself sanction- 
ing such a claim. In the 50th Book of the Digest, tit. xvi. sec. 17, 
Ulpian, as ther»quoted, ranks among the property of the State the duties, 
tolls or tithes which are levied for the benefit of the public treasury. And 
he gives, among other instances, the tithe which was levied for the 
public treasury on minerals. ** Puhlica vecfigalia inielligere debemus ex 
quibus vectigaljiscuscapit: quale est vectigal portuSj vel venalium rerum : 
ilem scdinarum et metallorum el piscariarum." 

We will pause here merely to express our agreement with the learned 
District Judge in considering that such a. substance as Plumbago is 
clearly a mineral, a Metallum, within the meaning of the Roman law. It 
is indeed but doing justice to the Advocate for the plaintiff to say that 
no time was taken up in disputing this matter. Unquestionably in the 
scientific language of modern Chemistry Plumbago (technically called 
Graphite) is not a metal, being a carbon compound; but that it is a 
mineral, such as would come under the latin word " Metallum," may be 
seen by looking out the word in Facciolati's Lexicon, and observing the 
meanings which it embraces, and for each of which good authority is 
there given. It means not only substances such as gold and silver, lead 
and iron, but generally materia ilia dura quce ex terrce visceribus effoditur^ 
Marble and many other things are shown to be " Metaila." The instance 
of Sulphur, which is one of the recognized "Metalla" in Latin, bears the 
closest analogy to the particular substance which we are dealing with. 

We return now to the authcjrities in the Corpus Juris for the State having 
a right of tithe, a " Vectigal" in the form of a " Decuma" over minerals. 

Besides the passage in the Digest already cited, there is the Code, book XI, , 

tit. VI, which by paragraph 3 orders that "^cuncti qui per privatorum loca 
saxorum venam laboriosis effossionibus perseqmmtur, decimas Jisco, decimas 
etiam dommo reprasentent." Van Leeuwen in his much valued Commentary 
says of this passage that " Metallorum nomine saxum etiam intelligitur.'* 
The wording of this title in the Code is " D« Metallariis et Metallis eb 
procurafnribus metalUn ?im.'' 



iV.VR. 26. { ^ '^"^ «I'- 

Tile Plumbago There is alae a passage in the md book Z>e Audti^ bt. j6, "^Qtueaint 
'^*" Regalia," which Voet in his commentary on book 49 of the D^est, tit. 

14, sec 5, treats as bearing on this subject, and as proving the State's 
light to a royalty on minerals. The authority of the Libec Feudorum 
as part of the Corpus Juris, that is as part of the Body of Roman Law 
received and recognised by mediaeval and modern Jurists, has been impugned 
by some commentators : but it has been acknowledged by the great majori. 
ty of Dutch Jurists, as may be seen in the prefatory lemarks on these 
" Feudorum Consuetudines*^ in Groejiewegeii de Legibus Abrogatis, page goi,. 
Above all, its authority and the authority of this particular part of it are 
sufficiently vouched by the fact of its being quoted and relied on by Voet- 
The Liber Feudorum in its second book, title 56, contains a list of 
Regalia, among which are enumerated " Argentarise." Voet,, in his com- 
mentary on the 49th book of the Digest, tit xiv, § 3, cites and explains 
this passage in the Liber Feudorum. His opinion is that when Argemtariaf,. 
that is to say silver mines, are mentioned in it, we are to regard the word, 
as used for all mines of minerals, the species being placed for the genus. 
** Proponnniur argentaria;, id est, argenti Jodina, sed specie positd pro- genere,, 
sie ut omnis generis metaliifodinie-contineantur."^ He goes on^jjo say that he 
differs from those who claim all minerals, though found in private ground,, 
as Regalia j and he thinks that the passage either refers to the produce 
of mines in state-lands only, or that the passage does not mean the 
mines themselves^ but the certain portion, as a fifth or a tenth, or some 
other portion which is rendered to the Sovereign Emperor and other Lords- 
ot Regalia from raines^ in whatever part of his territory they are found and- 
established. He adds that this last mentioned sense, that is the Sovereign's- 
or State's right to tithe or royalty in minerals, wherever found, is the true- 
sense of the passage in the Digest, book go, tit. 17 (which we have 
already referred to) as to a right to tithe of minerals being part of the 
State's proprietary rights. He refers also to the passage in the Code 
already cited), book xi, tit. vi, De Metallariis et Metallis. ffis words as 
to the passage in book 50 of the Digest, are Eoqite seitsu videntur inter 
fiscalia jura r^ferri vectigalia metallorum. Lex " Inter Picblica" I Jr 
Titulus De verboriim significatione. ^ 

Considering then this position in the argument to be proved, that the 
right in question would exist according to ancient Roman Law, we come 
to the next step; and we have to examine whether this part of the ancient 
Roman Law was in force in Holland. The learned Counsel for the 
appellants denies this, and says that there is no proof of any edict or 
ordinance or proclamation, by which the Counts or the Commonwealth of 
Holland ever introduced this law. But we do not think that any such proof 
is necessary in order to make us believe that the Dutch jurists and rulers 
acknowledged any particular branch of Roman law. They acknowledged 
the Roman law generally, except such articles in it, as clashed with the 
principles of their constitution, and provided also that it was not overruled 
by any express law of Holland on the subject, or any custom having the 



foieeoilaw. We cannot as to this follow a safcc director than Vanderlm- The Plumbago^ 
dea ; whose guidance is peculiarly valuable, because he live<rand wrote during case* 
the very last pefiod of the existence o£ the old Dutch judicial institutions f andi 
we therefore learn from him what those "laws and institutions of the Seven. 
United Ptovinces" were at the very tim,e when Ceylon passed by con- 
quest and cession from Dutch into British Sovereignty^ Vanderlinden, 
says (seep. 57 of English Translation) "When we are to answer the- 
question what is the law in the case ? we must first inquire whether there- 
is any general law of the land respecting it, or any local ordinance or 
regulation,, which has the force of law, or any established custom. 
On failure of these, the Roman law, as a model of wisdom and justice, is 
called in to supply the casus omissus/' Undoubtedly the learned Counsel 
for the appellants had a weighty passage of Groenewegen to cite in favour 
of his eontention that the Roman Law as to the State-tithe on minerals 
was not in force in Holland. Groenewegen in his Treatise " De 
Legitus abrogatis et irmsitatis in Hollandia" says at page 798 respect- 
ing title vi of the xith book of the Code, (being the title already 
refared to). " De MelaUariis et. Metallis et Procuratoribus eorum." — " Hio 
titulus exolevit { ^ia apud nos iton sunt metalli fodincsJ^ But (as the 
learned District Judge has remarked) Groenewegen has given a special reason 
why this part of the Roman law was inoperative in Holland ; namely the 
reason that no mines or minerals existed there. It by no means follows 
that in the event of something, on which such a law could operate,, 
being found within the dominion of Dutch law, Groenewegen would 
have refused to allow the Roman law to exhibit operative' vitality. It is. 
moreover remarkable that Gronewegen in this same treatise, though he 
cites or comments on the 50th book of the Digest, title 16, § 17 "Inter 
Publica," as to other matters, does not say or even hint that the part of 
this law, which declares the State to have a right to a tithe of the produce of 
mines,, was obsolete in Holland. And this law " Inter Publica" in the 50th, 
book of the Digest is a far broader, surer, and more manifest authority for 
the right in questbn^ than is the passage in the Xlth book of the Code. So- 
also as to the passage cited from the Liber Feudorum, Book 2, title 56. 
Groenewegen comments on it in the same treatise ; but he says nothing 
as to the law about " Atgentariae" being among Regalia having become 
ebsolete. 

But, whatever weight ought to be assigned to Groenewegen's remark 
in the, passage in the Xlth book of the Code,, such weight is far overborne- 
by the feet that Voet in his Commentary already quoted cites this passage 
ef the Code, and the passage of the Joth book of the Digest, and also the- 
passageinthe mdboofc ofthe Liber Feudorum; and that he regards them all 
not only as existing Roman Law, but as existing Roman-Dutch law. That 
he did so regard them is proved by his adding no- warning that the law, 
which he has been illustrating as Roman Law, is not also the law of Hol- 
bnd. Wherever such a difference existed, Voet was careful to inform his 
teadeisofit. To da so was one of the main objects of his great work. He 



M - -,^ J M PART III. 

NOVR. 20. j 

The Plumbago tells us in his preface that his purpose was to expound both Roman and 
case. actually existing law. Sociandam censui Romance juri&prudentiis explana- 

tionem cum hodiemi juris tractatiane. Here again we cannot do better than 
follow the advice of Vanderlinden, who says in his Introduction (p. 17), 
" The study of the Commentary on the Pandects by Professor Voet, which 
particularly shows how far " the Koirtan law is yet binding and in force, 
and the authority of which is with reason very great in our country, can- 
not be too much recommended." 

There yet remains for consideration the third matter, which the 
Queen's Advocate was bound to establish, namely that this Roman-Dutch 
Law as to the " Vectigal Metallorum" existed in Ceylon under the Dutch 
Government of the Island. We are convinced that this point also is made 
good ; and this completes the Crown's right to a decision in its favour 
in the present action. That the law of Holland in general became the law 
of Ceylon when occupied by the Dutch settlers is admitted by all ; and 
we may here again usefully draw attention to the Royal Proclamation, 
when the English conquered the Island, which has been already referred to 
and to the Ordinance of 183S) already cited, which enacts and declares 
that " the laws and institutions which subsisted under the ancient Go- 
vernment of the United Provinces shall continue to be administered." 
Undoubtedly,, if it can be shown that any particular portion of the . Roman- 
Dutch law, as prevalent in Holland, was essentially a local law of the 
mother-country and entirely unsuited for the position of Dutch Colonists 
here, the presumption would follow that such particular portion of Dutch 
Law was not introduced in Ceylon ; especially if proof could 
also be given of judicial decisions in the Colonial Courts against the 
existence here of that law, and of large classes of the community here 
having notoriously habitually acted in a manner wholly inconsistent with 
such a law. without receiving any punishment or aninzadversion from the 
tribunals or administrators of justice for so doing. None of these things 
has been proved in the present case. They were all proved in the recent 
Mortmain case, decided here on 8th July last (D. C.Colombo 3627), and 
we accordingly held that the Mortmain law of Holland was not introduced 
by the Dutch in Ceylon. We fully adhere to the principles laid down in that 
judgment. We again, as in that case, follow the example given by the 
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the case of Thurburn v. Stewart, 
which is repotted in vol. VII of Moore's P> C. C. (N.S.) p. 333, in looking to 
the nature of the law in question, to the character of the Dutch Colonists, 
and to the objects of their colonization,so as to guide us in determining 
whether law about minerals was law, that must have appeared to be suited 
to the requirements of the Dutch Colonists here, and which therefore was 
not likely to have been omitted from the laws of their old country, which 
they brought here with them. Now, if there be a fact peculiarly certam 
about the motives for European colonization in the East Indies as well as 
!R the Western world, during the i6th and t^th centuries,, it is the fact that 



flSTHICT COURTS. N j NOVR. 26. 

the hope of finding mines of precious substances was one of the most power- The Plumbago 

ful stimulants of the adventurers ; and the Dutch were (to say the least) <=^==- 

as susceptible to such influences, as were other European nations. Law 

about rights over the mineral wealth which was ever desired and hoped for 

(though in Ceylon, as in many other settlements, such hopes were long 

deferred) formed a part of the law which would naturally be wanted here, 

and which we must regard as not omitted from that general body of 

Roman-Dutch institutions which certainly prevailed here, while the Dutch 

were tenants of that dominion in Ceylon, which now has vested in the 

Majesty of Great Britain. 



D. C. Matara, 25965. This was an action by the plaintiff Right of chil- 
against his father-in-law, to r ecover specific^ portions of 14 lands, '''^^"gj" ''a- 
as the share due to plaintiff's wife from her deceased mother's cent's share 
estate. A Chetty intervened and claimed a mortgage by the de- of the joint 
fendant over certain of the lands. The District Judge {Sweiten- estate. 
ham) non-suited the plaintiff, on the ground that he could not h / 
claim any particular land, his right amounting only to a hypothec /'J 'J (Xi 
giving him preference over all subsequent creditors or purchasers 
for the value of the mother's share of the community at her death. 
The Judge relied on Justice Jeremie's decision in Putlam 1923 and 
ColoTibo North 2983, Morgan's Dig., 189. 

In appeal, Ferdinands lor appellant. — The judgment relied upon 
by the District Judge was over-ruled by the Supreme Court in 
two Colombo cases: D. C. 54929 and D. C. 60403. 

Per Stewart, J. — " Set aside, and judgment entered for the 
plaintiff and his minor daughter for an undivided half of so much 
of the lands and premises specified and mentioned in the libel and 
which belonged to the joint estate of the defendant and his deceas- 
ed wife. The claim of the intervenient is dismissed, so far as it 
affects the moiety above adjudicated to the plaintiff; but the said 
claim to be held good as respects lands or premises or shares there- 
of not hereby awarded to the plaintiffs. The t>istrict Judge will, 
if necessary, make further enquiry and enter up judgment as above 
directed. The old case reported in Morgan's Digest, p. 189, and 
referred to by the District Judge, has been over-ruled by recent 
collective judgments of the Supreme Court. See Colombo D. C. 
No. 54929, Novr. 3rd, 1871 i and D. C. Colombo, No. 60403, 
November 22nd, 1872, in which it was expressly held that the 
children of a deceased parent succeed at the death ol such parent 
to a moiety of the joint estate of their parents ; — and consequently 
to a moiety of the s ever al landsof which the joint estate may have 
consisted, subject to the right of the surviving parent to alienate 
or encum ber for debts or expenses contracted during the commu- 



NOVR. 20. 



O VAftI lit. — 

nity as pointed out m those judgments. In the present case there 
is no evidence, nor is it even suggested, that there wede any debts 
or liabilities of the joint estate which made alienation necessary. It 
will be seen that the lands, a moiety whereof is now awarded Vo 
plaintiff, only comprise such immoveable property mentioned in 
tbe libel as the defendant and his wife were possessed of at the 
time of the death of the latter. The jrfSgment in favor of the plain- 
tiff is not to include any property acquired by the defendant sub- 
sequent to the death of his wife. The costs of both plaiiitiff and 
intervenient to be paid by the defendaiit." 



Construction of D. C. Mafara, 2602,9. The plaintiff, on behalf of himself and 

a Will. his infant child, sued his mother-in-law, the defendant, for the 

recovery of certain moveable and immoveable property which had 

been specially bequeathed to his late wife by her father, who bj 

the 5th clause of his Will had declared as follows : 

*' That my s^id eldest daughter Emily shall forfeit the right to , all, and 
each item of, the property thus left to her, virtually and entirely, in case 
she contracts a marriage against the wishes of Mr. George Edward Ernst 
Mrs. Emily Sophia Ernst, and Mrs, Emily Felicia Buultjens, (my father, 
wife, and sister). It is to be distinctly understood that at any time the 
opinion of any two of them is to be received tor or against — where all the 
three cannot agree. If she contracts a marriage according to my above 
expresseil desire, or if she Chooses to remain single, the property shall be 
unconditionally hers, at the age of one and twenty." 

The testator died in 1864. In 1869, the daughter (who was then 
17 years of age) married the plaintiff, with the full consent of the 
abovenaraed persons ; and she died in 1871. The defendant now 
contended that, under her husband's will, the property was not to 
vest in plaintiff's wife until she attained the age of 21 years, whether 
shemarriedornot before that time. The District Judge (S-wet- 
tenhani) however entered judgment for plaintiff for one-half of the 
property claimed in the libel, reserving the minor's rights. 

In appeal {Grenier for appellant, Ferdinands {or respondent) 
per Cayley, J. — Aflfij-med. 



Corporal pun- D. C. Anuradhapura, 123. The defendant, an Arachi, was 

ishment. convicted, under the 2nd clause pf Ordinance 6 of 1850, of having 

" corruptly demanded and taken a sum of fe. 10 for helping to 

recover certain stolen cattle, the property of the complainant," 

and was sentenced, on the sth of November, by the District Judge 



DI»TRICT COURTS. 130 

(Dicksim) " tb receive 50 lashes, 25 to be inflicted in the Bazaar at 
Anuradhapura on the morning of the 17th instant, and 25 lashes to 
be inflicted within 45 days thereafter at the whipping post in Kal- 
lankiga on such day as the Fiscal may appoint : the defendant to 
give approved security in Hs. 500 to surrender at the above 
places on the appointed days." In appeal, (^Ferdinands for ap- 
pellant) per Cayley. J. — " In view of the remarks of the District 
Judge as to the prevalence of this crime in the District referre d to 
and of the fact of the defendant being a headman at the time when 
he committed the oiFencej the Supreme Court sees no reason to in- 
terfere with the decision of the District Judge as to the infliction of 
■corporal punishment. This Court has, however, in a previous 
case held, and still thinks, that a defendant should not be punish- 
ed by two floggings, though such a punishment would not be 
against the strict letter of the law. The judgment is accordingly 
Affirmed with the modification that the corporal punishment be 
reduced to 25 lashes." 



Not. 28. 



Novenrber 28. 
i^reseht Creasy, C. J., Stewart and Cayley, J. J. 

D. C. Matara, No. 26483. This was an action instituted in Administra- 
july 1872, by the plaintiff, upon an assignment of a security bond tion. 

which had been executed in January 1848, by John Wetzalius Security Bond 
Perera, Secretary of the District Court of Matara, as the official P"^^^"^" 
administrator of the estate of the plaintiff's parents, who had died 
in 1845-6. The defendants were the sureties of the deceased ad- 
ministrator and his widow, and were sued for the default of the 
administrator in not paying to the Iplaintiff Hs. 1300, the share of 
the estate due to him. Only the two sureties (the 2nd and 3rd 
defendants) answered, pleading prescription. It appeared at the 
trial that the plaintiff was born in December 1843 ; that the bond, 
oh the assigtiVneht of which the action was founded, was in favor 
of " Charles Daniel Ludovici, the Head Clerk of the Court, and 
bf the Secretary of the Court for the time being ,■" that the bond 
required the admirtistrator to pay over the residue of the estate 
to the heirs'; that the plaintiff was the sole heir of the intestate; 
and that the administrator had done nothing beyond filing a pro- 
Visional account on the Sth August, 1848. The plaintiff having 
waived the widow (the ist defendant), the learned District Judge 
(I^i//«a»»i) held, that the plaintiff having attained his majority in 
1865, his right of action had been prescribed by the operation of 
the 3rd clause of Ordinance No. 8, of 1834 ; and that there was 



Not. 28. 



131 PART in.- 



prescribedi 



Administra- such laches on his part as would not justify the Court in interfering' 
tion. jt, point of equity. 

orescribed°" ^^ appeal, AlvJis, for appellant, submitted that the right of the 
heir to sue accrued only when he beeanie a major 5 that he attained 
his majority in 1865 5 and that prescription could run only from 
that date, which had not been ten years before action.- The plain- 
tiff had no .action until there was 3 breach of the bond, that was 
until he was denied his share of the estate when he had come of 
age and was entitled to demand it, Ordinance No. 22 of 1871) 
and not No. 8 pf 1834, was applicable to the case. 

Per Cavdey, J, — ^"Affirmed. The Supreme Court thinks that 
the administration bond sued upon, so far as relates to the lia* 
bility of the sureties, the 2nd and 3rd defendants, was prescribed 
be.fore it was assigned to the plaintiff. The Bond, which was in 
favor of the Secretary of the Court, was executed in 1848, and was 
flqt assigned to the plaintiff until 1873. The case must be governed 
by the Ordinance 8 of 1834, by the 3rd section of which Jt ia 
enacted, that no action shall be maintainfable upon any bond 
conditioned for the perfornjance of any trust, unless sudh action 
shall be brought within 10 years from the date of such instrument, 
or the last payment of interest thereupon.: that is to say, under 
that Ordinance, prescription began to run, not from the date of 
breach of the condition, but from the date of the instrument, or tha 
last payment of interest on it. Under the new Ordinance of 
Prescription (No. 22 oi 187 1 §6), the breach of the condition in a 
bond is expressly made one of the points from which prescription 
begins to run. How far the estate of the deceased adminfetratoi' 
is liable for his mal-administration, it is not necessary to enquire, 
the claim against his representative, the ist defendant, having 
been waived by the plaintiff at the trial." 



Road Reserva- D, Q. Esmd^, 55764. TWa was an aetion by the Trustee oC the 

tions. Baptist Missionary Society against the MuwQipal Couaoil of Kandj^p, 

"'^" to restrain the latter froja ereetipg a wall on a Road ReserYSticoa in 

M. C. kandy. tcQvit, of the Baptist Chajiel and in front of an adjoining bouse which 

had been originally built for the accQinmodation and residence of tli« 

Baptist Mis«onariea, but which had fo* some years past b^ien occupied 

by tenants under the said Society, The learned District Judge 

(Caa%) teld as f oilo,ws : 

" Tke fiist question which arises for deterwinatjen appears ta me to 
be this: — Have the Mission Soxsiety acquired a p^escr-iptiTte title to 
the groiBid in front of their house and Chapel> vhich is to he taken 



V. 

M, G. Kaniy, 



DISTRICT COURTS. 132 ) -^^^ 28 

for widening the road ; or, if not. have they acquired a prenftriptive Road Reserva- 

title to the easements of light, air, ingress and egress which they '>ons. 

have hitherto enjoyed ? As against the Orown they°have, it appears '''"J"'^ 

to me, acquired a prescriptive title to neither the one nor the other. 

The prescriptive period of one-third of a century has not elapsed 

{see 1245, D.' C. Colombo, S. C. Minutes, \Zth Sejitmber, 1870)'; and 

to far as relates to the ground, the title of the Orown has been ac- 

Itnowledged by the plaintift applying for and accepting an occupancy 

ticket from the Government, and agreeing to pay a rent Of one shilling 

per annum for it. And, although the Municipal Council (assuming 

the ground to be now vested in them) cannot as grantees of the Crown, 

claim the privilege of the Crown in respect of the jorwonyBft'o longissimi 

tefnporis (see Chitty Prerogt 399J; still as the Deed of grant, under 

which the Society claim their premises, by reference to the Survey 

attached, expressly reserves this ground for public purposes, I do not 

think that they can, when propounding the Deed, which makes this 

reservation, at the same time set up, in contravention of the terms of 

their grant, a prescriptive right to prevent the reasonable use of the 

land for these purposes by any person duly authorized in thit behalf. 

Assuming, then, that the Society have not acquired a prescriptive 

right either to the land or to the easements claimed, we come to the 

question : — Have these Road Reservations become vested in the Mu* 

Hicipal Council? Or, have they acquired right to enter upon them 

for the purpose of widening the roads or streets to the injury of the 

occupiers of the adjoining tenements ? This is a question of some 

difficulty and great importance. It was argued by the defendants' 

Counsel, that when the roads and streets within the gravets became 

vested in the Municipal Council, the reservations passed with them ; 

that they are in fact a part of the roads and streets for which they 

Were reserved. In point of fact, however, these reservations are not 

part of the roads and streets. In the present case, for instance, the 

reservation is some feet below the road ; one portion of it is a garden 

9nd the other (that in front of the chapel) was enclosed with a rail 

and gate for a number of years ; and, according to street lines marked 

in the plan Z, upon some portions of the reservation the fronts of 

several substantial houses have been built. The question must be 

determined by reference to the Municipal Councils Ordinance (17 of 

1865J. By the 87th clause of that Ordinance, it is enacted that all 

public streets and bridges within each Municipality (except such as 

have been specially exempted by the Governor,) and the pavements, 

stones and other materials thereof, and also all erections, materials 

implements and other things provided for such streets shall be vested 



Nov. 28. { ^33 PART III.- 

Road Reserva- in tte Municipal Council for the purposes of the Ordinance. Now 

tions, the expression "otherthin^sprovided/br such streets" mvLSl,lthmh, 

Car er j^g construed to mean other things of a similar kind with erectionSj 

M. C. Kandy. materials and implements, and cannot be held to include road reser-. 
vations, To turn now to the Interpretation Clause, the word Street 
is there declared to mean any road, street, square, court, alley, or 
passage, whether a thoroughfare or not, over which the public have a 
right of way, and also the roadway over any bridge or causeway within 
the town.^ This clause does not appear to me to include these road 
reservations. For although they may be liable to be converted into 
thoroughtares at present, many of them have not been so converted ; 
as for instance the one in question, nor have the public as yet neces- 
sarily acquired a right of way over them. Again, it is not probable 
that it would often, if ever, become necessary to widen any road beyond 
the reservation, and if the reservations were vested in the Council, or- 
if the Coimcil had full and unrestricted power to use them, there would 
be no necessity for that part of the 88th clause which refers to widen- 
ing streets and by which the Council is authorized, witti the sanction 
of the Governor and Executive Council, to widen any street mak-. 
ing due compensation to the owners and occupiers: of the land 
required for that purpose. At all events, an exception would 
would have been made so far as it relates to widening the streets to, 
the extent of the reservations. It is also to be observed that parts of 
these reservations consist of waste land, and under the 61st clause of 
the Municipal Councils Ordinance, waste ground or land within a Mu- 
nicipality does not vest in the Council until it has been handed over- 
with the sanction of the Governor, Again, comparing the Interpreta- 
tion Clause of the Municipal Councils Ordinance with that of the 
Road Ordinance (No. 10 of 1861) which is in pari materia with it soi 
far as relates to this subject, it will he seen that the word Koad in 
the latter Ordina,nce is expressly dqflared to include such waste land 
adjoining any Road as may have been reserved for its protection and 
benefit. If it had been the intention of the Legislature to includ? 
these reservations under the words Street or Road in both Ordiu • 
anoes, it is difficult to see why it shbuld be expressly so stated in the 
one and left to inference only in the other. There is moreover, I 
think, a good reason why the Legislature should have placed these 
Reservations jinder the operation of the Road Ordinance, and yet 
not intend them to be vested in the Municipal Councils. Complete 
control over the roads is left in the Government by the Road Ordiuf 
ance; whereas by the Municipal Councils Ordinance the Government 
Jiave merely relinquished all control over the property hi^aded ovef 



DISTRICT COURTS. 134 



Nov. 28. 



to the Councils. If the Legislature had intended to give to the Road Reserva- 
Councils such unlimited power over the reservations as this, I think i'""®' 
that such intention would have been clearly expressed, and not left ^_ 

to doubtful inference only. The Missionary Society are in occupa- j^^ c, Kandy, 
tion by themselves, or their tenants, of the land proposed to be taker* 
by the defendants, and in the enjoyment of the easements of light, 
air, ingress and egress referred to, whether with a good title or not ; 
and they have been in such occupation and enj oyment for nearly 
thirty years. It is true th^^t they recently, and probably in anticipa- 
tion of this dispute, obtained a,ji occupation ticket from Government, 
which was afterwards withdrawn, for the ground in front of their 
House and Chapel ■ but the Crown has not resumed possession of this 
land, nor iutervened in these proceedings. It accordingly appears 
to me that, it the Co^ncil wish to take this land for widening the 
road, they must proceed under the provisions of the 88th c'ause of 
the Municipal Councils Ordinance, which authorizes them to widen 
Steets, but only with the sanction of the Governor and Executive 
Council, and on the condition of making due compensation, not only 
to the owners, but to the occupiers also of any land that may be re-- 
quired for the purpose. In the present case neither of these condi- 
tions has been fulfilled. It was pleaded and contended at the trial, 
that the work in question is a necessary work for the public oonveni.! 
pnoe and for the due preservation and improvement of tbe road of 
vhich the Council are nndoubtedly the conservators. It is true that the 
road would be improved \>y widening, and the convenience of foot 
passengers increased if a footway were allowed them. But necessary 
the work cannot be considered. I accordingly think that the plain tifi 
is entitled to decree restraining the defendants from further prosecu- 
tion of the work. The plaintifi's prayer is in the alternatiye— either 
for an injunction or for ^2,000 by way of compensation or damages. 
There is no claim for the damages already sustained; and I do not 
think that I can awai-d any, under the prayer for further relief. Any 
right to recover such damages must be r«servedr The decree will 
be that the defendants be restrained froni further building the wall 
which they have commenced in front of the Baptist Mission premises, 
^d that they be ordered to remove, at their own cost a.nd within one 
month of this date, so much of the wall as is already erected. De- 
fendants will pay plaintifi's costs of suit.'* 

In appeal {Kelly for appellants, the Queen's Advocate for respondent) 
per Ceeast, C. J.—" Affirmed. The Supreme Court is of opinion 
that the Municipal Councils Ordinance has not vested m the Councils 
land which forms no part of a road ; and that it has given no power 



Dec. 5. 



135 



PART in.— 



to them to build by their own authority on such land, though for the 
purpose of improving a road," 



Practice. 

Effect of 

striking ofE 

cases. 



December 2. 
Present Stewaht and Catlbt, J. J. 
D. C. Trincomali?,20S\\. This case, which had been instituted 
on the 23rd October, 1871, after repeated postponements, had been 
withdrawn from the Trial Roll on the 29th July, 1872, by order of 
Court; the psirties having failed to issue a commission to the arbitra" 
tors to whom they had previously agreed to refer the matters in dis- 
pute between them- On the 30th July, 1873, the deffendant's Proctor- 
moved for a rule on the plaintifi to shew cause why the case should 
not be struck oft and plaintifi nonsuited with costs, a year and a day 
having elapsed since plaintiff had last taken any steps to prosecute 
hia suit. * The District Judge {lempler} made the following order: 
" Struck off. No rule neces.sary-" The defendant appealed, urging 
that the object of his motion had heeix to recover his costs, the plain-, 
tiil having put him to the ex;perise of defending an action which had 
since been abandoned altogether. Per Stewart, J. — " Set aside, 
The proper course for the defendant to adopt ija to proceed to Imve 
the cause set down for trial." 



December 5. 

Present Stewart and Catley, J. J. 

Sequestration ^- C- G!a//e, 35342. This was an action by the Casa Marit-. 
of a Ship. tima Company of Genoa against the Master of the Italian shipi 

* The rule as to striking off pases on account of a year and a day's laches 
was laid down in appeal in D, C. Negombo, 69, in the following terms ^ 
"This Court does not agree with that portion of the judgment which seems 
to lay down that it is necessary for a plaintiff to institute a fresh act ion, if 
his original case has been struck off on account of a year and a day 's laches*. 
The Supreme Court thinks it desirable, on account of doubts that have 
been expressed on the subject, to record its opinion that the power of the 
Courts to strike cases off the roll when no steps have been taken for a year 
and a day is in fall existence and is not affected by the Rale of Court of 
1842. The nature of this power and the mode in which it should be 
exercised, namely, by an order of the Judge, are fully shown in the hag. of 
Gj-o«h«, p, 301, note; and in Gromewesen de. judicus, ■p. 74. The same 
authorities show that it is competent for the party to procure the restora- 
tion of his cause, by shewing tolerably fair excuse for bis delay.. This ough^ 
not however to be a new motion of course on an ex parte proceeding. Notie* 
of (he intended application should be given or else only a rule to shewcaus^ 
should in the first instance be'granted," See Civ, Min,, June 26, 1863, 



DISTRICT COURTS. 136 ) p^,^ g 

Maria Luisa, to recover Es. 42,233 for breach of a charter-party. Sequestration 
in that the defendant, in place of proceeding without deviation to "* ^ Ship. 
Falmouth or Cork (the port of destination in terms of the charter- 
party), had taken a clearance for Chittagong. The District Court 
of Galle, on affidavits to that effect, granted a sequestration of the 
vessel. 

In appeal, by the defendant, the Queen's Adtiocaie for ap- 
pellant. — (l) This is a proceeding against the ship, and recourse 
should have been had to the Vice Admiralty Court. The District 
Court of Galle had no jurisdiction. The Rhadamanthe, i Dods. 
aoi J The Atlas, z. Hagg, 48. In England, a Common Law Court 
has jurisdiction in such matters, only where fraud can be proved. 
Maude and Pollock, p. p. 444,445. (2) There was no breach of 
the bond : an intention to deviate does not amount to a deviation. 
(3) The proceedings are further irregular in that Messrs. Fowlie 
Richmond signed the Proxy as Agents of the plaintiff, while having 
no Power of Attorney to represent thera. 

Ffrrfiwd'Wi, for respondent. — (i) The vessel being in the Galle 
harbour, the District Court had jurisdiction over it. Merchant 
Shipping Act, 1854, sect e^ \ Armitage Brothers v. P and O f/^ 
Company, 46627, D. C. Colombo, Supreme Court Minutes, 7th 
January, t868. (2) The intention to deviate was sufficient to justify 
sequestration, 22,858, D. C. Colombo, Lorenz's Reports, part 2, 
page 62. If completion of the voyage is prevented by act of 
master, payment may at once be enforced. The Armadillo, 2 
Rob. 2^5. (3) Fowlie, Richmond's agency is admitted by defendant 
»n the bond, and he cannot now question it. 

PerCAYLEY, J. — "Set aside, and the sequestration issued be 
dissolved. As we are not sitting collectively, and as we think that 
the sequestration should be set aside on other grounds, we shall 
give no decision on the question of jurisdiction, which is one of inn- 
portance,and which (in viewof the special circumstances of this case), 
Is open to discussion. The bond upon which the action is brought, 
is conditional for the performance of a voyage to Falmouth or 
Cork for orders, without deviation, and for the payment of a certain 
sum of money within thirty days after arrival at the port of des- 
tinatioa. There has been no breach of the bond as yet, and con- 
sequently no cause of action j for the allegation in the Kbel, that 
the defendant is about \o. sail to Chittagong, and has obtained a 
clearance for that port, does not disclose any prese nt breach, 
tboi^h it may aver an intention on the part of the defendant to 
Omraft a breach. But, on the other hand, the sequestration which 
^ b«en granted, if upheld, will render it impossible for the 



Dec. 9. / ^^"^ part HI.— 

Sequestration defendant to fulfil the conditions of the bond. We do not mean to 
ot a Snip, say that cases might not arise in which the sequestration of a 
mortgaged ship would be upheld, even though the amount due on 
the mortgage had not become due, where it was clearly and satis- 
factorily sheWn thit, if the ship were allowed to sail, the security 
of the mortgage would be materially endangered. Butj as 
observed by Rowe, C. J., 'in the case No. ^2,858, D. C.j Colombo, 
(2 Lorenz*s Repol-tS) page 69), the pi-6cess of sequestration is art 
unusual and extraordinary remedy, which ought not to be resorted 
to, unless there be good and valid reasons shewn for its adoption ; 
and a Court, before g^rantingslich an fextraordinary rertiedy, must 
be first convinced df its rlecessity. "We Are not convinced of sucH 
hecessity in the present case ; arid a very strong case indeed 
would havfe to be made out before we should uphold a seqestra- 
tion, which would place it out of the power of the defendant to 
fulfil the conditions of the very bOnd in respect of whith the 
sequestration was applied for." 



heceniber 9. 
Present Stewaet and CAttET, J. J. 
CoffeeContract ^- f^- Colombo, 62\ 87, The plaintiff sued defendant for the recoT* 
Fengadasalem. ery of Rs. 1909-54, being balance due on 1571^ bushels of parchment 
V. Coffee sold and delivered. The defendant, admitting the balance on thes 

Horsfall. quantity delivered, pleaded that the 1 571^ bushels formed part of 5006 
bushels agreed to be Supplied by pl&,intiff, ftud claimed Rs. 3428.75 as 
damages in reconvention for non-delivery of the total quantity con- 
tracted for. The plaintiff admitted the contract for 5000 bushels and 
replied that the parcels were to be paid for as delivered) and that the 
defendant having refused foil payment for the quantity actually 
delivered bad committed a prior breach of agreement. The words of 
the written contract were as follows : 

I the undersigned Koona Mana Chuna Vengadasalem Chetty hereby coni 
tract to deliver to C. W. Horsfall five thousand bushels parchment coffee, as 
per sample deposited with him, wffhin twenty days from this date, it being 
understood that the coffee is not to contain more than six percent, of inferior 
(light pulper cut chetry, &c). The said five thousand bushels are to be 
delivered in Colombo at such place as the purchaser may direct, on 
receiving payment at the rate Of Es; 6 and Gts. 62 ^ per bushel. 

[Signed in Tamil by Plaintiff.] 

The learned District Judge (Ber-wick) held as follows : — 
Plaintiff is entitled to judgment for the unpaid balance of the value of thi 
1571 4; bushels delivered. With respect to the claim in reconvention, which is 
founded on an apparent breach of contract in not delivering the whole quantity 



DISTRICT COURTS. 138 ) „ 

> Dec. 9. 

contracted for within the specified time, it appears from the evidence that the CoffeeContract 
plaintiff did not break his part of the contract until the defendant had broken Pengadasalem 
what the evidence shows to have been an implied part of his contract accord- v. 

ing to the usage of trade, namely to pay the value of each instalment of coffee Horsfall. 
on delivery. Certainly, the Court would never find such an implied under- 
standing in the wording of the contract itself: but this is just one of 
those cases in which it must view the terms of the contract and the inten- 
tions of the parties as a whole, and if it is to do justice must 
act as a tribunal of commerce would act and must annex to the 
actual terms of an informal written contract those unwritten but well- 
understood terms which, being in the ordinary course of trade, must 
in good faith be presumed to be as much part of the mercantile contract 
taken as a whole as if they had been expressly inserted in it ; and which in 
all probability are only not specially inserted because they are so much in 
ordinary course as not to be considered as requiring special covenant. The 
usage is conclusively proved to be to pay for each parcel on delivery, and 
the Court cannot for a moment allow that the force or fact or obligation of 
a mercantile usage is to be permitted to depend on the arbitrary will of one 
party not communicated to the other at the time the contract is made: nor 
on his doubts of his customer's solvency or ability. If a well-understood 
usage of trade is to be departed from, it can only be by express and joint 
consent, and not at the pleasure of one party only, and still less after per- 
formance of the contract has been fairly entered on by the person against 
whom the other party desires to vary the established custom ; unless upon 
such cause as the law and not he in his private judgment may deem suffi- 
cient ground for requiring some material guarantee for performance of the 
rest of the contract. The claim in reconvention must therefore be dismissed. 
Judgment for plaintiff as prayed for. 

The evidence as to usage had been given by Mr. James Robinson, 
Merchant, who deposed as follows: 

I am in the Coffee trade and have a number of Contracts similar to the 
one in suit. [The Contract is read by the Witness.] Interpreting this 
document by the usage of trade, the Coffee should be paid for on delivery of 
each parcel; and payment for any parcel should not be detained until the 
whole Jooo bushels contracted for are delivered. Such is the usage of trade 
with hardly any exception in practice : such exceptions being when sufficient 
confidence cannot be placed in the person we are dealing with. 

In appeal, by the defendant, Kelly, for appellant. — The usage of 
trade cannot over-ride an express agreement if any such usage exists, 
which is denied. Payment was only due on full delivery, under the 
terms of the contract . The usage proved was subject to the condition 
that it did not apply where sufficient confidence could not be placed 
in the seller, and the evidence brought this case within the exception. 

Ferdinands, for respondent. — Usage when established cannot be 
departed from by mental reservation of one of the parties on a ques- 
tion of confidence ; and usage was proved. The express words "re- 
ceiving payment " shewed that the payment was to be simultaneous 
with each delivery, and the judgment was in accordance with this 
interpretation. The prior breach of contract was with the defendant. 



Dec. 9. { ^^^ PAHTHI.- 



Horsftdl. 



CoffeeContract Per Stkwakt, J,-t-" Affirmed. The plaintifl sues to i-eeorer R.?, 
rengada^alem \ 909-54, balance due for Cofiee sold and delivered to the defendant npon 
the contract filed in the case. The defendant admits the recei|)t of the 
coftee, but pleads that by the contract the plaintiff was bouod to deli- 
ver 5000 bushels within twenty days from the date of the agreement, 
that the plaintiff only delivered 1571 J bushels, leaving the residue 
undelivered at the termination of the stipulated period, whereby the 
plaintiff became liable to pay the defendant Rs.3428-75, as damages for 
suchdefault. The defendant claims in reconvention Rs 15'29 as damages, 
giving the plaintiff credit for the amount claimed in the libel. Twoques- 
tions arise for consideration: 1 st, as to the effect of the evidence of usage 
given in the District Court ; 2nd, as to the true import of the contract 
in itself, 1st, the Supreme Court does not think that the usage relied 
upon by the learned District Judge has beeu proved to be so certain 
and so generally acquiesced in as to be taken as engrafting upon every 
written contract of the kind in c^uestion terms of payment not ex- 
pressly provided for by the instrument itself Mr. Robinson, 1st 
witness for plaintiff, certainly states 'interpreting this document by 
the usao-e of trade, the coffee should be paid for on delivery of each 
parcel, and payment for any parcel should not be detained until' the 
whole 5000 bushels contracted for are. delivered.' This, so far, ia 
very precise. But the witness goes on to add, ' such is the usage of 
trade with hai'dly any exception ; such exceptions being where suffi- 
cient confidence cannot be placed in the person we are dealing with.' 
Now this is the very exception that is relied upon and urged on be- 
half of the defendant for keeping back the value of part of the deliver- 
ies of Coffee. The defendant states as to usage, ' there is a, usage 
but not an invariable usage in the trade, that Coffee is paid for on de- 
livery of the several parcels to the full value of the parcel delivered.' 
Upon the above evidence, it appears to the Supreme Court that it' 
cannot be maintained that the alleged custom or usage was of such a 
uniform and binding nature' as to have the force of law: Possibly it 
may be that the exceptions referred to by Mr. Robinson are in reality 
not exceptions at all impairing or affecting the usage he alludes to, but 
merely solit;iry instances where the purchaser unjustifiably and ille- 
"■ally in the particular case sets at defiance the established custom. In 
this view we should probably have felt it our duty to remand the. suit 
for further inquiry, if not for the opinion we have formed on the con- 
struction to be put upon the contract itself. The Supreme Court 
considers, 2ndly, that the terms of the agreement itself contemplate 
that the Coftee should be paid for as it was delivered. The words 
' receiviniT payment at the rate of Rs. 6 62 J per bushel' seem to us 



DISTllICT COURTS. 140 ) ^^^ g 

to imply more than the mere fixing of the price at which the Coftee CoffeeCohtract 
was sold. If nothing more than this had been intended by the con- '^'^S" '""■ 
tract, we should have expected it to have simply stipulated for the ij^r.sfAU. 
deliveiy of the coflee at so much per bushel, or, as the quantity is 
fixed, fiar a certain lump sum. There is nothing in the contract to 
prevent the delivery being made in instalments, provided it was com- 
pleted within the time stipulated ; it is not disputed that the seller 
was at liberty to do so ; and the words at the end ot the agreement, 
by which ineiiect the seller stipulates to receive payment at the rate 
of so much per bushel, seem to have been used advisedly, so as to en- 
title him to payment for each instalment as it was delivered. The 
constrnction of this contract may not be free from doubt, but such is 
the impression which a full consideration of it has left upon our minds. 
If the seller was at liberty to deliver by instalments, (indeed his not 
delivering earlier and more frequently is put forward among the reasons 
which justified the defendant in withholding full payment) it would 
be consonant neither with reason nor equity to receive the equivalent 
in money for Oofiee actually delivered to and received by the purchaser. 
There would in fact' be a want of mutuality in the one party receiving 
produce which he could at once turn to account, whilst the other was 
deprived ot payment and possibly of the means whereby alone he would 
be enabled to carry out his engagement. If the defendant had merely 
failed to pay for any particular parcel, that of itself migbt not have 
been a sufficient excuse for the plaintifl delivering no more Coffee ; 
but the defendant,' as appears by his own admission, twice distinctly 
refiised fall payment 'when demanded. There is also the letter A by 
which immediate payment ' was required for the quantities already 
deliyered;' A<;corditigly, -we think that the plaintiff, after these repeat- 
ed refusals of defendant, cannot be held liable for ceasing to perform 
the remaining part of the agreement. See Withers v. Reynolds, 2 B. 
and Ad. 882," 



D. C. Jaffna, 1046. The following judgment of the learned Dis- Thesawaleme. 
trict Judge (de Saram) explains the case. " This is an action on a '^^^^^ °^ ''^1^ 
Promissory Note brought against the defendant as the representative aigters 
of the Estate of the laite Cartegaser Ayer Suppyer. The defendant is 
designated in the libel as the brother of the deceased Suppyer ; but 
the examination ot parties shews that he is only half brother and the in- 
tervenients are half sisters of Suppyer. The defendant has in due course 
filed. his answer. Two parties have since intervened, claiming to be 
heirs of th* deceased jointly, with defendant. To this intervention, 
the plaintiff has demurred, on the ground that the inter venients, the 



{'■ 



Dkc. 9. ' '"^^ ^^'^^ "'— 



Thesawaleme. half sisters of the deceased, are not his heirs at law, but that the 
Eights of half defendant, the half brother, is his only heir, according to the Thesa- 
siaters waleme. The question thus brought before me for adjudication is, 
whether the intervenients are to be allowed to come into the case as 
heirs at law of the deceased. The Thesawaleme has been carefully 
looked over, both by myself as well as the Counsel appearing in the 
case, and we are unable to find any decision on the point. There is 
nothing to shew that a half brother or a half sister is entitled to succeed 
to his or her half brother's Estate, but there is a decree upholding a 
half sister's right to succeed to a half sister's dowry property. Thes: 
p. 27, No. 5005. The point being one of importance, I felt it my duty, 
when the case first came on for argument, to postpone it, so as to 
allow the parties an opportunity of calling witnesses to prove the cus- 
tom of the country. The intervenients alone have availed themselves 
of it, and called their witnesses : one a gentleman of great experience 
and practising at this bar, the other also a gentleman of great ex- 
perience and employed as head clerk of the Kachcherri. Both these 
witnesses are of opinion tkat the property of the deceased Suppyer, 
as he has left neither issue nor full brothers and sisters, should revert 
to his parents, if alive, and failing them to their next of kin. They 
further add that the property inherited from the father goes 
bajk to the father's family, and the property inherited from the 
mother reverts in like manner to the mother's family ; the acquired 
property being shared by both families, share and share alike. 
In the case now under consideration, the deceased's parents being 
dead, the defendant and intervenients, through their common mother, 
Sethea Letchemy (who was a sister of Subamma) are entitled to suc- 
ceed to the deceased's property as his next of kin. This, of course, 
if the intervenients have not been dowried. Mr. Sinnetamby states 
that he is aware they have not been dowried, and it is not attempted 
to be denied. It is clear from the Thesewaleme that parents are heirs 
to their children's property, those children leaving no brothers and 
sisters. The argument, however, put forward by the plaintiff is, 
that the defendant, a half brother, is alone entitled to succeed to the 
Estate of his half brother on the principle adopted by the Thesawa- 
leme, that a male inherits from a male and a female inherits from a 
female, I am of opinion, however, that as the Thesawaleme makes no 
mention of half brothers and half sisters as being entitled to succeed 
to their half brother's property, and as parents only are specially 
mentioned as heirs to their children's Estate, the defendant as well as 
intervenients in this case must be considered the heirs at law of the 
deceased Suppyer. I further think, that if it were intended that half 



DISTRICT COURTS. 142 | p^^ g 



brothers should succeed, special mention would have been made of Thesawaleme. 
them. It is admitted that the deceased's Estate consisted of heredi- Eights of half 
tary, dowry and acquired property, but it is unnecessary in this case ^^"^i^Zts 
to say what each is entitled to of the several kinds of property left. 
The demurrer is accordingly set aside, and plaiutifi must pay all the 
costs consequent thereon." 

Jn appeal, {Ferdinands for appellant, Grenier for respondents), per 
Catley, J. — "Affirmed. There is no evidence of the alleged custom 
set up by the defendant. On the other hand, the evidence called by 
the intervenients appears to us satisfactorily to establish the position 
thac,according to Tamil law, when a person dies intestate and without 
wife or issue or any full brothers or sisters, the property which such 
person inherited from his father devolves upon the children of the 
father's other marriage equally, wliether males or females, provided 
that the latter have not been dowered." 

D. C. Kalutara, 20650. The rights of the Crown, as Intervenient, Dutch Grant, 
to certain portions of a land having been upheld by the District Judge Evidence as to 
(Jayetilihe) as against those claiming under a Dutch Grant dated c"lti™t;ion. 
1736, the defendants appealed. 

In appeal, (^Kelly and Ferdinands for appellant, the Queeris Ad- 
vocate for respondent) per Catley, J. — 

"Affirmed. The former judgment of the District Court was set 
aside by this Court, as between the defendants and the intervenient, 
and the case was sent back to the District Court for inquiry ag to 
what portion or portions of the land claimed (if any) besides .a cer- 
tain portion of two amuuams' extent to which the defendants were 
entitled had been brought into oultivatiou by the defendants or their 
predecessors. The Supreme Court further held that the Crown was 
entitled to all that was claimed in the Petition of Intervention, except 
a certain garden and field, and except also such other cultivated por- 
tion or portions of the said lands in the petition mentioned as the 
defendants or their predecessors had brought into cultivation. To 
these last mentioned portions the defendants were declared entitled 
on payment of ottu. to the Crown. Against this judgment, which 
was given in 1867, there has been no appeal; and the only question 
for consideraSon in the case as it now comes before us is which of the 
portions of land claimed in the Petition of Intervention have been 
brought into cultivation by the defendants or their predecessors. 
With regard to this question no sufficient reason has been submitted 
to us for interfering with the findinn; of the learned District Judge, 
who himself inspected the land and whose opinion in a matter of thi» 



T-, in ( 143 PART III. 

Dec. 12. } 

I 
Datch Grant, kind, from his intimate knowledge of tke country and extensive judi- 
uvidence as to gj^[ experience, is entitled to the very, jrreatest weight. We agree 
cultivatiou. . , , , , T^. . , , , , • <u ■ ■ '■ .. 

with the learned District Judge that the expression ' bringing into 

cultivation', which is employed in the former judgment of this Court, 
cannot be made applicable to what is called chena cultivation, whicli 
is a temporary cultivation of waste land for a single crop of some 
fine grain at intervals of several years, the laud being allowed to re- 
lapse in the meantime to its pristine condition of jungle. Such cul- 
tivation so far from improving is an injury to the land sown, and cannot 
be the kind of cultivation and improvement contemplated by the Grant 
from the JDutch Government. We thinkthat the learned District Judge 
is correct in his interpretation of this expression ' bringing into 
cultivation ;' and with respect to the evidence we see no reason for 
coming to any different conclusion fiom that arrived at by him. The 
appearance which the land presented when visited and inspected by 
him confirms the evidence given by the witnesses for the Crovvn, while 
it negatives that adduced on the part of the defendants ; and the re- 
cent transplantation of some old cocoanut trees, in order to , give the 
land an appearance of having been brought into cultivation long ago, 
throws the greatest suspicion on the defendants' case if it does not 
render that case altogether unworthy of credit." 

December 12. 
Present Stbwabt and Catlet, J. J. 
Deed of irift ^' ^' ^°t°-^'^' 26.i20. Plaintift claimed, under a bill of sale dated 
Kegistiation. 4th October, 1 868, eight coorunies of a certain field. 1st defendant 
proved a deed of gitt from plaintifl's vendor, executed in 1850,. in favor 
of .himself and another for four coorunies, while the other defendants 
failed to establish any right to the property in questiojQ. The District 
Judge (Sweitenham) lipid that plaintifl's conveyanpe having been re- 
gistered was entitled to priority ovey the unregistered deed of gift, 
which he held was an absolute gift and, npt, a dquafiq mortis causa, iLad 
which, was a? follpws ; 

Wtfereas I Tdonqr) having been seripusly, wounded and dangerously ill, 
and whereas LpkuAppp and Wuttuhami (donees) who are closply related 
to me rerider nie help and assistance for' my illness; and whereas [ think 
it p'rdpet' to give theni' some gift oh that account, I do hereby^ gift over to. 
them'v^ith m^ full consent and pleasure 4 coorunies extejjt from my ancisstral, 
paraveny when my immortal soul is separatcf) from my mortal body; and 
I hereby renounce and cancel all the powers and rights which I, the donoj:, 
have or any my heirs have with respect to them, etc. And with reference 
to thi's gift no dispute or objection could be raised or caused to be raised 
hereafter either by me or by my heirs, and as an everlasting proof of these 
powers so granted, the deed of gift was caused to be written, etc. 



DISTRICT COURTS. 144 I _ „, 

J- Dec. 23. 

, In appeal, per Catlei, J.— "Set aside and judgment to be entered Deed of gift. 
for plaintifl for I and 3-5th kurunies only of the land in dispute. The Kegistration. 
Supreme Court concurs with the learnecJ District Judge in holding 
that the deed of gift marked A and produced by the 1st defendant 
must be taken as an absolute gift and not as a donatio mortis causa. 
The recital that the donor was dangerously ill with a wound and the 
fact that the possession of the donees is to be postponed until the 
donor's death, are not of themselves sufficient to rentier the gift a 
donatio mortis causa (see Voet, xxxix, 4, 4,); and the language of the 
subsequent part of the instrument is quite inconsistent with any inten- 
tion that the gift should be revocable or should not operate in the 
event of the donor's recovery. (See the translation made by the In- 
terpreter of the Supreme Court.) The learned District Judge has 
however given preference to the plaintiff's conveyance, of 1868 over 
the deed of gift, on the ground that the former has been registered 
whereas the latter has not. But the deed of gift was executed in 1850, 
and the 39th clause of Ordinance 8 of 1 863 is applicable to such in- 
struments only as have been executed after that Ordinance came into 
operation, i. e. after the 1st January, 1864. (See sections 38 and 53;. 
The learned District Judge has found that Lianege Nicholas, 
through whom all parties claim, was entitled to 5 and 3-5th kurunjes ; 
deducting from this the 4 kurunies comprised in the deed of gift, 
plaintiff will be entitled to 1 and 3-5th kurunies only. Plaintiff must 
pay 1st defendant's costs, both in appeal and in the Court below.'' 

December 2yd. 
Present Stewart and Cayley, J. J. 

D. C. Galle, 32979. The plaintiffs sued as assig'nees of a- Warranty 
lease of land from Nicholas Dias, who had originally leased the under a Lease, 
land in question from ist defendant. The action was to compel 
the 1st defendant to warrant title, and against 2nd and 3rd de- 
fendants for ejectment. The District Judge held (inter alia) that 
1st defendant was not bound to warrant, and dismissed plaintiff's 
case. 

In appeal, t}^ Queen's Advocate, for plaintiffs and appellants. — 
There is an implied warranty between lessor and lessee ; and 
plaintiff's, as assignees, were in the same position as the original 
lessee, who was dead. 

Ferdinands, for respondent. — This is but a sub-lease to plain- 
tiffs from Nicholas Dias, and the ist defendant is not bound to 
warrant title. The representatives of Dias should have been first 
cited, who in their turn should have called upon the defendant. . 



Dec. 23. [ ''''^ , '"^"'^ J"— 

.Warranty jt jg not competent for plaintiff lo skip over Dias and resort to 
under a Lease, q-^^, ^^^^^^_ ^ Surge, 561, 565 ; Voet, lib. 21, tit. 2, sec. 21. 

The Queen's Adi'ocate, in reply.— The passages cited are only 
directory, and do not release the lessor from the original warranty. 
Per Stewart, J.—' Affirmed. The claim of the plaintiffs is 
based on a lease from the late Mr. Nicholas Dias, Mudaliyar, 
who was the original lessee of the garden in question from the 
1st defendant, under an indenture dated August 17th, 1867, for a 
period of four years, ending on December 31st, 1874. The plain- 
tiffs allege that, in January L872, during the continuance of their 
lease, they were ejected by the 2nd and 3rd defendants, and 
they pray that the 1st defendant may be cited to warrant and 
defend the lease. The island 2nd defendants are joint owners 
of the land, and, according to Deed Lr. C, entitled to possess 
the property in alternate years, the 2nd defendant (under whom 
the 3rd defendant justifies) during the year 1872. The question 
now before us for adjudication, which has been argued at the 
Bar is, have the plaintiffs established any right of action for breach 
of warranty against the ist defendant? We may in the first place 
point out, that the deed in favor of the plaintiffs is erroneously 
called an assignment in the proceedings. It is simply a sub-lease 
for a part of the term comprised in the original indenture. No au- 
thority has been cited to us in support of the position, that the im- 
plied warranty arising from the relation of lessor and lessee extends 
to the benefit of a sub-lessee, so as to enable the latter to sue the 
original lessor for damages sustained by reason of his (the sub- 
lessee's) eviction. We can find no such authority ; and, as there 
is neither priority of contract, nor priority of estate, between the 
proprietor and the sub-lessee, it is difficult to see upon what 
piinciple such an action can be maintainable. In the case of 
sale and purchase, when the property sold has passed through 
several hands, it would appear that such remedy would not be 
available at the suit of the last purchaser against the original 
vendor, unless there had been a cession of action. See Voet 
lib. xxi, tit. 2, sec. 21, (" et si res eadem ssepiue vendita per 
plures, &c., &c.") where it is laid down that the proper course is 
for the last purchaser to call upon his immediate vendor to defend 
his title, and for the latter, in his turn, to call upon the party from 
whom he purchased, until the original proprietor is so reached. 
There being no priority of estate or contract between an original 
lessee and an under-lessee, the same principle would seem to 
apply to a case like the present." 



INDEX. 



Part I. — Police Courts. 



Pass 
APPEAL. 

Where a Magistrate enters a verdict of acquittal, holding that the evi- 
dence for complainant is " unsatisfactory," and no evidence whatever 
for the defence has been taken, the Supreme Court will direct a 
rehearing ... ... ... .. 27 

Where a Magistrate had acquitted an alleged receiver of stolen' 
goods, on the ground that there was no proof that a thefl bad been 
committted, the judgment was affirmed in appeal, although the Su- 
preme Court thought a different conclusion might have been come to 
on the evidence ... ... ... ... 35 

An appeal which is lodged after the prescribed time will be rejected, 
there being no provision in the Rules to cure such delay ... 44, 65, 66 

The hearing of an appeal may be delayed on affidavits, to give a 
defendant and appellant time to institute criminal proceedings against 
the complainant and respondent ... ... ... 49 

The Supreme Court will not interfere in cases where the substantial 

rights of the parties have not been prejudiced ... ... 57 

A finding which is inconsistent with the charge will be set aside in appeal 61, 106 

The Supreme Court has the right to cancel its own decree improvide 

emanavit ... ... ... 64 

No appeal lies from an order of a Justice of the Peace refusing a motion 
by defendants, in a case of fraud and theft, that certain property 
which the complainant had been allowed to remove under security be 
restored to them, although the charge had been dismissed and the 
complainant had failed to institute civil proceedings in respect of the 
property claimed by him .. ... ... 66 

The Supreme Court has no power to interfere with a finding on facts, 
although a perusal of the evidence may lead to a different conclusion 
from that arrived at by the Magistrate .. ... 69 

No appeal lies against the dismissal of a case by a Justice of the Peace 100 

No appeal lies from an order of a Police Magistrate striking oS a case, 
on the ground of the complainant not being ready or of his having 
agreed, through his Counsel, to give up the charge ... 98, 100 

ARRACK ORDmANCB.— CiVo. 10 o/1844.) 

Under a conviction for selling above the authorised price, in breach 

of the 26th clause, the arrack sold cannot be confiscated ... 5 

In the absence of a licensed Retail Dealer for the district, the Renter 
has no right to issue a permit for drawing toddy, and cannot support 
a charge, under the 39th clause, against a defendant who has acted 
without such permit •■ ■•; ... 21 

Prosecutions under the 32nd clause, for illegally keepmg and possess- 
ing arrack, are beyond a Police Magistrate's jurisdiction .. 39 



INDEX. 



Part I. — Police Courts. 



Page. 

The licensed retail dealer referred to in the 39th clause must be taken 

to be the person licensed to retail toddy under the 38th clause ... 45, 46 

To sustain a conviction on a charge of selling arrack contrary to the 
tenor of a license, the license itself should be produced or its 
absence duly accounted for ... ... ... 47 

Where a person sells arraok at a place other than that specified in his 
license, he is liable to be convicted under clause 26, even though 
" he has not acted with any guilty intent, but in simple error " ... 58 

Where a charge was laid under the 29th instead of the 26th clause, 
the Supreme Court refused to intertere with a conviction on the 
ground that the irregularity had in no way prejudiced the substan- 
tial rights of the defendant ... ... ... 99 

ASSAULT, 

Where one of two defendants had been foimd guilty on a plaint which 
charged them with assault and theft, and the evidence supported 
the conviction only as to the assault, the Supreme Court set aside the 
judgment as to the theft, without however interfering with the sen- 
tence, which was one of imprisonment with hard labor ... 10 

Detaining a thief till he gives up the stolen property does not amount 

to an assault ... ... .. ... 33 

Where an assault was a mere nominal one, the Supreme Court reduced 

the fine imposed by the Magistrate from Ks. 10 to 50 cents 49 

ASSESSMENT TAX.— (Ort/mance 16 of 1865.) 

Two distinct Proclamations are necessary under the Ordinance ; one 
to establish a Police Force, another to define the per centage to be 
levied on the annual value of rateable property ... ... 1, 3 

AUTRE FOIS CONVICT. 

A conviction, under Municipal Byelaws, for neglecting to construct a 
drain as required by a written notice, is no bar to a second prosecu- 
tion under a subsequent written notice in respect of the same work,,, 96 
BRIBERY. 

Where a party tenders money and jewelry to the Police, with the express 
intention of ofiering security for ihe temporary discharge of a defend- 
ant, and not with the object of tempting them with a gift in order to 
suppress a criminal charge, it is no bribery ... ... 56 

BROTHEL KEEPERS. 

A keeper of a brothel or disorderly house is liable to conviction under 

the Common Law ... ... ... Q 

BUTCHERS' ORDINANCE. -(iVo. 14 o/ 1859.) 

A party using an insufficient license to slaughter cattle is liable to be 

convicted, unless he acts bona fide ... ... 10 

CARRIERS' ORDINANCE.— (iVo. 14 of 1865.) 

A conviction under the 1 6th clause for letting an unlicensed hackery 
cannot be sustained wlien it is not alleged in the plaint or proved by 
the evidence that the hackery in question iu a public conveyance in 
terms of the 5th and 6th clauses ... ... ... 65 



INDEX. 



Part I. — Police Couets. 



Page. 
CATTLE TRESPASS.— (Orc^raance 2 0/1835 and 5 of 1849.) 

Police Courts have jurisdiction to award damages even beyond Rs. 50 
under provisions of Ordinance 5 of 1849. ... ... 50 

Cofiee Estates need not be fenced to entitle the owners to the benefit of 

the Cattle Trespass Ordinance. ... ... ... 54 

Before a defendant can be be convicted under clause 3, of Ordinance 2 of 
1835, the complainant is bound to prove that, within 48 hours from the 
time of seizure or trespass, he gave notice to the nearest police constat 
ble or local headman, or that the damages were assessed in the manner 
required by the Ordinance ... ... ... 62,63 

A prosecutor should prove that the garden trespassed upon was fenced 

or that by local custom it required no fence ... ... 62,68,102 

Any person who has been injured or annoyed by cattle traspass has his 
civil remedy, including the right of distraining the cattle damage 
feasant. ... ... •■• ... 102 

COMMUTATION RATE.— C Ordinance 1 o/ 1 86 1 .) 

A plaint to the efiect " that the defendants did not pay poll-tax for the 
year 1872, in breach of the 63rd clause of the Ordinance" was held 
to disclose nooflence. ... ... ... 47, 48 

The joinder of twenty-five defendants on a charge under the 54th 
clause was held to be seriously improper, there being no proof that 
they were acting in concert with each other ... ... 113 

CONTAGIOUS DISEASES ORDINANCE.— CiVo. U of IS67.J 

The conviction of a defendant, who is herself absent, but who pleads to 
the charge through a Proctor who repi'eseuts her at the trial, is per- 
fectly legal, although the due service of the notice on the ?iccusedhaa 
not been verified on oath ... ... ... 8 

CONTEMPT. 

A Police Magistrate cannot punish for contempts committed out of 
Court ... .•■ ••■ , ... 19 

Even when a party does not attend Court after due notice or summons, 
he should be allowed an adjournment until the following day to shew 
cause before he could be punished for contempt .. ... 19, 20 

When a complainant makes a false statement, by way of an excuse for 
not beino- ready, and for the purpose of misleading the Court, he may 
be punished for contempt and even sentenced to imprisonment . 23 

Where one witness pleads ignorance of facts which are subsequently 
deposed to by another who states that the former is aware of them, 
such first witness cannot be punished for contempt - ... 37 

Excepting in extreme cases, sach as an attempt to assault the Magis- 
trate or the like, a party charged with contempt should be allowed 
time to shew cause ... ••• ... 37 

Bawa's Case ... ••• . — - , ... 70 

When a contempt of Court has been committed through ignorance, 
inadvertence or mistaken motives, and has been promptly acknow- 
ledged, the dignity and authority of the Coui-t is generally s.ufficiently 
vindicated by an admonition ... ... ... , 77 



INDEX. 



Part I. — Police Courts. 



Page, 

CORPORAL PUNISHMENT. 

The pTOvision, as to moderate chastisement, at the end of section 108 of 
Ordinance 11 of 1868 does not apply to all cases of summary con- 
viction of children, but only to those in which children are convicted 
under Ordinances which (like the Police or Malicious Injuries Ot- 
dinance) specially empower the Magistrate to impose snch punish-, 
ment, instead of fining or imprisoning the oftenders .. 1? 

To inflict lashes on the buttocks (especially on a full grown man) would 
be a cruel and unusual punishment such as our Courts, acting in the 
spirit enjoined by the Bill of Rights, ought never to order ... 32 

It is not compulsory on a Magistrate to inflict corpor.il punishment on 
a person convicted for the third time on a, oha,rge of maintenance 
under clause 5 of Ordinance 4 of 18.41 .. ... 3.7, 38 

. QOSTS.— (Ordinance \8 of ISTl.) 

The loss of a man's time and the trouble which he is put to by having 
to attend Court come within the term "reasonable expenses;" and 
the Magistrate may award costs in respect of such loss and trouble, 
even in the absence of proof that defendant has actually incur- 
red any expense . ... ... • 97 

Where a Magistrate, believing the complainant's case to be false and 
frivolous, had fined him Ks. 5 " to be given over to the defend- 
ants," the Supreme Court affirmed the sentence in the view that 
the fine was intended to be an award of expenses under clause 4 of 
Ordinance 18 of 1871 and not a penalty under clause 106. of Ordin- 
ance 11 of 1868 .. ... .. ... 103 

CRUELTY TO Animals.— (Ordmance 7 0/1S62.) 

A prosecution for cruelty will lie even where the act complained of is 

not malicious . . ... ... ... 4 

Where a trespass is pleaded in defence and proved, the Magistrate 
should consider the fact, together with the mode and extent of the 
ill-usage, in determining whether any cruelty has been practised in 
breach of the Ordinance ... ... .. 4 

Where no cruelty is proved within the meaning of the Ordinance, the 

defendant is entitled to an acquittal ... ... ft 

Where a bullock was trespassing on defendant's chena and in order tft 
drive it off he shot and wounded it, a conviction was set aside on 
the ground that it was not such a case as was contemplated by the 
Ordinance .. ... ... ... 62 

4. conviction, under the 19th clause of Ordinance 6 of 1846, for shooting 
a dog which was tied to a tree in complainant's premises, was upheld 
in appeal, although, it appeared that the dog, which was of a ferocious 
nature, had some time previously killed one of the defendant's pigs... 8^ 

Where a cow, while trespassing in the defendant's cultivated enclosure, 
had been wounded by him with a knife on the impulse of the moment 
whilst driving it ofl, a verdict of acquittal was recorded in appeal, 
setting aside a conviction by the Magistrate ... ... 8& 

DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 

On a charge for riotous and disorderly conduct, under the 25th clause 



INDEX. 



Part I. — Police Courts. 



Page. 

of Ordinance 16 of~I865, the defendant pleaded " guilty under pro- 
vocation," and was fined. He afterwards appealed, on the ground that 
the plaint was wrong in not having been laid under Ordinance 4 of 
1841. JSeW that the plea cured the defect ... ... 88 

No provocation will justify riotous and disorderly behaviour in the 

public street ... ... ... ... 88 

In determining the guilt or innocence of a party charged with disor- 
derly conduct " in having scolded the complainant with filthy words," 
regard should be had to the nature of the language used and to 
the tone, demeanour and acts of the defendant ... ... 94 

It is irregular to bring a man to Court for being drunk and disorderly 

and to try him then and there while he is still drunk ...111, 112 

EVIDENCE. 

A husband cannot depose to facts which his wife should personally 
prove: such evidence will be rejected as hearsay ... ... 4 

It is illegal in a criminal trial, instead of taking the evidence of the 
witnesses, merely to read their depositions as recorded on a previ- 
ous occasion and to permit the defendants to cross-examine them 
on such dcposi<;ions. Such a course may, however, be adopted in 
a prelipiin^ry enquiry before a Justice of the Peace ... 37 

The evidence in counter-cases between the same parties may be read 
together, both complainant and defendant having had an opportunity 
of cross-examining each other's witne.ss,es ... ... 47 

Jf the Magistrate is not satisfied with the evidence for the prosecution, 

the accused should have the benefit of the doubt ... ... 57 

Where there was ample evidence of an assault, but the Magistrp,te ac- 
quitted the defendant on the ground that both parties were to blame, 
the Supreme Court directed a further hearing, in view of the nature 
of the outrage complained pf ... ... .,, 67 

ESCAPE. 

A plaint which charges a person with having " escaped from custody," 
without alleging that he had been legally arrested and was in lawful 
custody is essentially defective ... ... ... 83 

FALSE INFOUM ATWS.—iQrdinmice 11 0/I868.) 

Where a defendant had, on information, falsely accused the complainant 
of cattle-stealing, without however reasonable grounds for doing 
so, he was held to have been rightly convicted, although the Magis- 
trate had expressed some doubt as to whether the accused had acted 
with malice ... ... ... ... 11 

If the information alleged to be false is not set forth in the charge, 

objection to the plaint should be taken in the Court below ... 22, 23 

A complainant may rely on the fact of the withdrawal of a charge 
against him" as proof of the falsity of the accusation, in the absence 
of proof by the defendant to the contrary ... ... ^ 46 

Evidence corroborative of the complainant's is unnecessary, in point of 
law, to support a charge for false information ... .,, 53 



INDEX. 



Part I..=r-PoLicE Courts. 



Page. 

A plaint which does not state the nature of the false information^ com- 
plained of is defective, and a Magistrate is justified in refusing to 
issue process on it .. ... ..63 

Persons who do no more than give evidence ^s witnesses ^re not liable 

to be prosecuted for fa.lse information ... •■• 79 

FALSE PRETENCES. 

Where a kangany receives money in adv9,nce to procure oooliea and 
fails in his engagement, he cannot be indicted for obtaiining nioney 
on false pretences ... ... ••• 61, 62 

A plaint is defective which does not state -nrhat the alleged f^lse 

pretences are .. ... ... ... 62 

FISCALS' ORDINANCE.— (iVa. 4 0/1867.) 

It is not necessary that actual physical force should be used to consti- 
tute resistance or obstruction. It is sufficient if the Fiscal's officer 
be prevented from doing his duty by menaces and show of violence 2% 

Where a complainant is for the time being employed as a Fiscjil's 
officer, he may institute a che^rge for resistance and obstruction in the 
execution of his duty . ... ... 86, 87 

FORCIBLE ENTRY.— (Prochmotion of 5th August, ]»} 9.} 

If a peaceable possessor yields to the threat of physical force s^nd there-. 

by avoids it, the case is still one of forcible entry ... ... 3 

Such a threat need not be by words. But there must be either an ac- 
tual employment or an actual menace of physical violence .. 3 

To punish criminally, there must be proof that the defendant used 

force equivalent to the atrox vis of the Roman Law .. 31 

A charge of entering a land in charge of complainant, and forcibly tak-. 
ing away a bullock which has been seized and detained there for 
trespass, discloses no criminal offence, especially where it is not made 
to appear that the (Jetendant rescued goods from the actual custody 
of the law ... ... ... ... 9 

A charge under the Proclamation is. defective, unless it is alleged that 
the entry was made " without the authority of a competent Magis- 
trate." ... ... .. ...107, 109 

Where a plaint is defective in this respect, and an amendment is moved 
for after the case for the prosecution has been closed, the Supreme 
Court will not interfere with the discretion of the Magistrate in re- 
iecting the motion, if the defendants appear to have acted bona fl,de.. 109 

A plaint under the Proclamation is defective, if it does not state that the 
land forcibly entere(^ upon was at the time in the occupation of the 
complainant ... ... ... .„ 110 

(GAMBLING.— (Orfwoncg 4 o/" 1841.) 

A Magistrate is bound to pass sentence on parties indicted for gamb- 
ling who have admitted the charge, although from insufficient evidence 
certain co-defendants who have pleaded not guilty may he entitled 
to an acquittal .. ... ... ... 7 

Bagatelle-playing is gambling within the meaning of the Ordinaiioe ... 17 

The actual gamblers as " parties to the game " are liable to be prose- 
cuted either under the 4th or the 16th clause .,. ... 18 



INDEX, 



Part I. — Police Courts. 



Page. 

The l(f)th clause applies to persons who play, bet and game as well as 

to the keeper of a tavern and those acting under him ... 18 

To prove that a place is used for the purpose of common or promiscuous 
gaming, it is not invariably, though generally, necessary to prove 
gambling more than once ... ... ... 24 

In prosecutions under the 16th clause, it is enough to prove gambling 

on the occasion for which the charge is instituted ... ... 24 

It is unfair and illegal to use the Ordinance so as to punish a party of 
friends or acquaintances in humble life who, for once in a way, may 
have a game into which chance enters, for moderate stakes, in a 
place not specially prohibited by law ... ... 25 

A Magistrate has no jurisdiction to try a charge under the 19th 
clause for keeping, holding, or occupying a house for the purpose of 
common and promiscuous gaming... ... ... 23, 25 

No charge for gambling can be instituted after the expiration of one 
month from the date of the offence, and prescription in this respect 
is not interrupted by a previous prosecution commenced in time which 
has been allowed to lapse ... .. ... so 

It is competent for a Police Magistrate to entertain a charge, under the 
1 9th clause, for keeping a gaming house, if authorised thereto by a 
certificate from the Queen's Advocate ... ... 52 

The evidence taken at the trial of seme of the defendants at which 

others were not present cannot be taken as proof againt the latter... 63 

On a charge laid under the 4th clause, a defendant cannot be punish- 
ed as provided for in the 19th clause ... ... 94 

JURISDICTION. 

Where a horsekeeper was accused, under the common law, of having 
fraudulently demanded and appropriated a sum of money which was 
due to his employer by a third party as carriage hire, the charge was 
held to be one which a Magistrate had no jurisdiction to entertain... 5 

Cases of aggravated assault are beyond the Magistrate's jurisdiction 8 

Under an acquittal on a charge of theft, the Court has no right to or- 
der the restitution to complainant of property alleged to have been 
stolen ... ■■ .. ... 36,61 

Prosecutions, under the 23rd clause of the Arrack Ordinance 10 of 
1 844 for illegally keeping and possessing arrack, are beyond the jm-is- 
diction of Police Courts ... ... ,, 39 

Cases of highway robbery are beyond the Magistrate's jurisdiction ... 66 
Cases of burglary are beyond the Magistrate's iurisdiction ... gg 

In cases of maintenance, the Court having jurisdiction over the place 
where a wife or child is left destitute, has authority to try a defend- 
ant (residing out of such jurisdiction) who is bound to support them 112 
LICENSING ORDINANCE.-(A'o. 7o/ 1873.) 

A tavern keeper selling arrack after 8 p. m. is not liable to prosecution 
under the 37th clause, arrack not being included in the term " in- 
toxicating liquor " ... ... ... 55 

In order to convict a defendant of an offence under the 21st clause, it 

is necessary to allege and prove that he was drunk ._ 63 64 



vlii. INDEX. 



Part I. — Police Courts. 



Page. 

On a charge under the 10th clause, parol evidence of the contents 
of a license may be acted upon by the Magistrate, where the de- 
fendant fails to produce the document ... ... 81, 82 

To constitute an ofience under clause 18, there must be either a 

"sitting and loitering" or only a loitering ... ... 82 

The words "shall be closed after 8 at night and before 5 in the 
morning " must be taken to mean " shall not be kept open after 
8 at night and before 5 in the morning" .. ..■ 87, 88 

Before a person can be convicted under clause 25, it is necessary to prove 

that he is either a licensed person or a keeper of a tavern ...99, 100 

MAINTENANCE.— (Or-c/iKflrnce 4 o/ 1841.) 

The tendering of sufEcient maintenance after the filing of the plaint, 
but before the issuing of summons, cannot annul the guilt of a defend- 
ant, though it may properly reduce his punishment ... 4 

Where the question of paternity had been twice distinctly raised and 
had received two distinct adjudications in favor of the defendant, a 
third charge for maintenance was held to have been properly dis- 
missed .1. ,.i ... ... 21 

It is not compulsory on a Magistrate to inflict corporal punishment on 
a person who may be convicted for the third time, on a charge of 
maintenance, under clause 5 of Ordinance 4 of 1841 ... 37, 38 

A divorce according to the Mohamedan law, although there has been 
no actual delivery of the tollocks into the hands of the wife, will ex- 
empt the husband from a prosecution for maintenance ... 48 

Where a Mohamedan husband had been convicted of not maintaining 
a Singhalese wife, the judgment in appeal was suspended in order to 
give him time to prove that the alleged Kadutain was a forgery. 49 

The Justice of the Peace, however, who tried the charge for forgery 
having disbelieved the defendant and his witnesses and refused, under 
the sanction of the Queen's Advocate, to commit the case for trial, the 
judgment of the Police Magistrate against the defendant was affirmed 51, 52 

On the sole evidence of the mother of an illegitimate child, the alleged 

father may be convicted on a charge for maintenance ... 54 

Where there is sufficient evidence in support of the prosecution the 
onus of proving that he is not liable, rests on the father who is in- 
dicted for not maintaining his children ... ... 80 

A legal divorce is a bar to a prosecution for maintenance by a wife 

against the husband ... .. ... 82 

The fact of a husband making sufficient provision for his wife by a 
notarial deed, in case of a separation by mutual consent, does not re- 
lieve him of the obligation to support his child ... ... 92 

A demand for maintenance is generally not necessary, the offence con- 
sisting in a person leaving his wife or child withou t support whereby 
they become chargeable to others .. ... ... 93 

If, however, a husband or father has made sufficient provision for his 
wife or child, and is bona fide under the belief that they are beinor 
supported as has been arranged, there is neither the mens rea nor 
the mens conscia necessary to render him criminally liable ... 93 



INDEX. 



Part I. — Police Courts. 



Page. 

Where a wife's property is not sufficient for the maintenance of herself 
and her child, regard being had to the condition in life of the parties, 
and it is clear that the defendant must have known this, he is liable 
to conviction under the Ordinance .. ... 104,106 

In cases of maintenance, the Court having jurisdiction over the place 
where a wife or child is left destitute, has au thority to try a defendant 
(residing out of such jurisdiction) whois bound to support them ...112, 113 

MALICIOUS mjljnil&- (Ordinance No. 6 o/l846.) 

Shooting a pariah dog which infests one's premises is not an ofience, 
where no wanton cruelty is practised... ... ... ... 39 

To bring a case within the 19th clause, the plaint should distinctly al- 
lege that the defendant committed injury or spoil to any real or per- 
sonal property ... ... ... ... 61 

The malicious re-opening of a grave wherein a corpse has been interred 
is an ofience under the 1 9th clause ... ... 86 

An overseer who cuts palmyrah olahs, for the purpose of patching up 
water-baskets used on road work, is not liaOle to conviction under 
the 14th clause, unless the act is proved to be malicious ... 91, 92 

MASTER AND SERVANT— (Ordinance 11 o/1865.) 

Tappal runners, employed under a contract, are servants within the 

meaning of the Labor Ordinance ... ... ... 4 

A complete desertion cannot be justified by a permission for temporary 
absence, especially where leave has been fraudulently obtained ... 6, 7 

A plaint charging the complainant's servants with " wilfully refusing 
and neglecting to work after agreeing to do so," is substantially 
defective ... ... ... ... 8 

The regular Dhoby of a household, employed and paid, not for piece 
work, but by the month, is a servant, although he may be washing at 
the same time for others ... ... ... 11, 13 

The words " other like servants ", in the 1 st clause of the Ordinance, 
must be ta,ken to mean such servants as generally resemble menial 
or domestic servants, in respect of the nature and mode of em- 
ployment, but with some circumstances of variance which are not 
important enough to eftace the eflect of the genei-al similitude ... 12 

A lithographing or copying clerk is not a servant .. ... 13 

Where certain coolies had been ordered to proceed from a coffee 
estate at GampoUa to another at Dimbula (both being owned by 
their employer) and they had refused, an acquittal by the Magistrate 
was affirmed in appeal, on the ground that there was not sufficient 
evidence of general hiring as to scene of work ... ... 15 

Takinof a cooly up on a warrant without reasonable or probable cause 

is neither an act of seduction nor an attempt to seduce .. 3S 

A cooly can at any time and on any day of his monthly service give 
a valid notice of his intention to leave at the expiry of a month from 
the day of giving such notice, and a rule to accept no notice which 
is n6t given at the beginning nf a month is illegal ... ... 40. 42 

Notice to leave may be given by a cooly either to the resident super- 
intendent or to the managing proprietor who pays the coolies ... 42 



INDEX- 
Pabt I. — Police Courts. 



Page- 

A verbal contract entered into by coolies with a eompfainant's agent, 
who advances them money belonging to his principal, is a good con-' 
tract Tvithin the meaning of the 3rd clause, and renders them Uable 
to serve the complainant as monthly servants .. •.. 44, 45 

A written contract of service for more than a month, which is not 
signed before a Magistrate or Justice of the Peace, is void; and a ser- 
vant is not liable to be prosecuted under it for a breach of the 1 1 th 
clause ... ... ... 52 

Where a plaint was Jefective in not describing the defendant as a ser- 
vant, and in not alleging want of notice to leave, the Supreme Court 
set aside a conviction and entered a verdict of not guilty, holding 
that a full review of the facts entitled the defendant to an acquittal. 52,53 

Where a servant leaves the service of his master by mutual consent, 
no prosecution will lie against the latter under the 3rd, 4th and 14th 
clauses . ... ... ... S9 

A defendant who is charged with having seduced certain coolies, but 
who is found to have acted under the bona fide belief that be was 
entitled to their services, cannot be convicted under the 19th clause 59, 60 

It is inexpedient, as a general rule, to put more then ten persons on 
their trial at the same time on a charge of leaving service without 
nntice; but where it is sought to admit some of the defendants as 
witnesses, the Court below should be informed by affidavit as to what 
they would prove ... 28, 78 

Where a kangany is insolent to his employer, the circumstance of his 
being a contractor as well as a monthly senant and the insolence 
being in respect of some contract work will not proteet him from the 
penalties prescribed by the 11th clause ... ... 80, 81 

To induce coolies who have been engaged in India, after their arrival in 
Ceylon, to take service on an Estate other than that on which they 
had bound themselves to work, by misr^-pvesenting that the lattsi 
place was e.xtremely unhealthy, amounts in law to seduction ... 83, 84 

A servant who is assaulted and told to go by his master cannot be in- 
dicted for desertion ... ... .. 85 

Where an employer, expressly or by necessary implication, releases his 
coolies from further service, {as, for example, by accepting a cheque, 
for ad,vances and debts due by them, given to him by a third party 
to secure such release,) the coolies cannot afterwards be indicted for 
leaving without notice ... ... ..,88,87 

A toddy-drawer is a monthly servant ... ... 94 

Where a servant contracts in writing to work off an advance received 
from his employer, by serving ;itso iiuioh per month, but leaves before 
his account is settled, he is liable to be prosecuted under the llth 
clause, although no definite pei'iod of service is named in the contract 98 

Mere assent on the part of a person to allow another to accompany him 
is not seduction ... ... .. ... 103 

MASTER ATTENDANTS' ORDINANCE.— (-iVo. 6 0/ 18(55.; 

The words "orders of the Master Attendant of the port," in the 24th 
clause, are sufficiently wide to embrace a rule foi-bidding any boat 



INDEX. 
Fakt L — Police Courts. 



Page. 
or canoe to comDnmicate or go alongside of any vessel arriving in the 
port of Colombo until after she anobors in a proper berth and has been 
visited by the Health OflSeer. The authority to make and enforce 
such a rnle iiinst be taken to be independent of the power vested 
in the Governor by the 6th clause to enact similar regulations 90, 91 

Before a person, however, can be convicted for a breach of the said 
rule, there should be some evidence to prove _that he had gone 
alongside of any vessel before she was visited by the HeaJth Officer 91 

MOHAMEDAN LAW. 

A divorce is complete where tollocks have been written and issued at 
the intervals required by the Mohamedan Code, and it appears that 
the wife was aware of the proceedings that were being taken, and 
thut it was owing to herself the Priest could not formally communi- 
cate the divorce to her ... ... ... 48 

SVl&A'SCEi.— (Ordinance, 5 o/1862.) 

Washing dirty linen in a public tank, which is used for bathing pur- 
poses, is an ofience under section 7, clause 1 ' ... •■• 20 

To support a chai-ge under the 1st clause, fur keeping a land or garden 
in a filthy state, it should be established that such premises are in or 
neax any i-oad or public thoroughfare ... ••• I'O 

PADDY TA3i.— (Ordinance 1 4 n/ 1840.) 

The informal appointment of a person as agent of the Paddy Renter 
will not affect the liability of the tax-payers under the 14th clause .. 94 

The extent of a crop and the value of the Government share are only 
necessaiy to be ascertained for the purpose of punishment and need 
not be stated in the plaint ... — ... 96 

PELTING STONKS. 

A plaint " that the defendant did " ^on a certain nightl " pelt stones 
at the complainant's house " was held to have been rightly re- 
jected as not properly stating any criminal ofience ... 39 
POLICE OKDINANCE.-(iVb. 16 o/1865.) 

A conviction for furious driving, under section 1 clause 53 of the Or- 
dinance, was affirmed, although the charge ought properly to have 
been laid under clause 83 ... ... _ .. 11 

An averment that the disturbing noise is made "in the night " is essen- 
tially necessary to support a charge under clause 90: so also is proof 
that any music complained of is " calculated to frighten horses " ... 25, 26 

Under a charge of resisting two policemen, a Magistrate is not justified 
in imposing a double penalty of Rs. 100 ... ... 35 

Where a complainant purposely conceals the fact that he is a Police 
Officer, the defendant cannot be convicted of obstructing him in the 
execution of his duty. If, however, the defendant has notice, in any 
shape and by any means, of the official character and function of the 
person whom he obstructs, he is liable to conviction ... 40 

PRACTICE. 

When a case comes on for trial, the complainant should not be examin- 
ed except on his oath or affirmation, neither of which, however, is 



INDEX. 
Part I. — Police Courts. 



Page. 

necessary at the preliminary investigation, under Ordinance 18 of 
1871, before the issue of summons ... •• 4 

Where a warrant has been ordered, and the complainant delays to have 
it issued, the Magistrate is justified in refusing to repeat his order 
and in striking oft the case ... ... ... 7, 8 

Where a case is sent back for further hearing, it is irregular to file a 
fresh plaint in respect of the sameofience ; and any proceedings under 
such plaint will be quashed in appeal ... ... 10 

A Magistrate may punish a, coniplainunt at the close of the trial for 
a false and frivolous chai'ge, and is not bound to order an adjourn- 
ment to shew cause unless applied for ... ... 44 

The evidence tendered by an accused, though in the opinion of the 

Magisirate not likely to be of any avail, should be heard . 56 

Where a new complainant is substituted on the record, and the defend- 
ant objects to the irregularity before evidence is gone into, the Ma- 
gistrate should strike oft the case ... ... ... 65 

A plaint is necessary in every prosecution; and where a person was 
sentenced on a plea of guilty, but without a plaint, the judgment 
was quashed as grossly irregular ... ... 67 

A conviction in the absence of the complainant will not vitiate a 
trial, where the defendant has pleaded without objecting to the 
irregularity ... ... ... ... 68 

The examination of a complainant, who is refused process, should be 
recorded in full and should afford sufficient facts to allow of a safe 
conclusion being drawn in appeal... ... ... 79, 93 

It is irregular to dismiss a charge on the ground that summons or 

warrant cannot be served on the defendant ... ... 80 

An order by the Magisti ate directing that the brother of a deceased 
complainant should prosecute was held in appeal to be equivalent to 
an amendment of the plaint and the substicution of a new prose- 
cutor ... ... 103,104 

Where a complainant sufficiently accounts by affidavit for his absence 
when his case was called, the Magistrate should not refuse to reopen 
his order of dismissal ... ... HI 

It is irregular to bring a man to Court for being drunk and disorderly 

and to try him then and there while he is still drunk ... 112 

PRESERVATION OF QAME.-(Ordinance 6 of 1812.) 

Elk and deer may be killed in the open season without a license by any 
person residing witluii the division uf the " Korale, Vidahn Arachy 
or Udaiyar," words which may be considered distributively ... 96 97 

PRESERVATION OF FlSll. -(Ordinance 19 o/ 1866.) 

First reported case under the Ordinance. ... ...100 101 

Effect of the Proclamation of October 1 869, relating to the North- West 

coast of Jaffna, defined in appeal ... ... ___ 112 

PRISONS' ORDINANCE.— (iVo. 18 o/1844) 

A peon on duty with a working party of prisoners has no right to 
leave without permissiorf duly obtained, although there are other 
peons in charge ... ... ... ___ ^q 



INDEX. xiii. 

Part I. — Police Courts. 



QUREN'S ADVOCATE'S U ERTIFIC ATE. 

A cei-tificate from the Queen's Advocate (in the absence of one from 
the Government Agent or his Assistant) is necessary to confer juris- 
diction on Police Courts in prosecutions under the Timber Ordin- 
ance ... ... ... ... 19,20,35,68 

It is competent for a Magistrate to entertain a charge, under the 19th 
clause of the Vagrants' Ordinance, for keeping a gaming house, if 
authorised thereto by the Queen's Advocate. .. ... 52 

REGISTRATION OF DEA.TIIS.— (Ordinance 18 o/1867.) 

Strict legal proof of the requirerai'nts of the 18th clause must be ad- 
duced before a party can be convicted of failing to give information 
of an alleged death to the District Registrar ... ... 62 

RESISTING POLICE HEADMEN.— (Ordinance 11 0/I868.) 

To support a charge of resistance under ckuse 165, it should be proved 
that the complainani; was in the execution of some duty imposed by 
the Ordinance ... .. ... ... 95 

SECUjRITY TO KEEP THE PEACE.— (Ordinance 11 0/I868.) 

Where the circumstances of a case disclose all the elements of a riot, 
the defendant, though acting in the assertion of what he believes to 
be a legal right, is liable to be bound over to keep the peace ... 69, 70 

When a Magistrate disbel-'eves a charge of assault and acquits the 
defendant, he has no i-iglit to demand from the parties security to 
keep the peace ... — 51 

A Magistrate cannot bind over for gond behaviour ... ... 51,86 

The violent assertion of a supposed right of way, in a manner likely to 
occasion a breach of the peace, will render the partias responsible for 
the act liable to.be bound oyer under clause iid .. ... 99 

THEFT AND RBCEIVIXG STOLEN PROPERTY. 

Where a defendant is not properly charged in the plaint as receiver, 
the Supreme Court will not set aside the proceedings on a mere 
technicality, if the Magistrate is satisfied with the sufficiency of the 
evidence in point of fact ... ... . 26 

In a case of Cofiee-stealing, the owner who was resident in Kandy 
had identified the cofiee and bag in question as part of a consignment 
he had sent down 10 Colombo. He, however, stated under cross- 
examination that he had a receipt from Colombo stating that the 
consignment had reached there correct and that the bags had all been 
returned in bulk. This being mere hearsay -evidence, and the defend- 
ants having been unable, to point out the persons fi:om whom they 
had got the cofiee and bag, a conviction by the Magistrate was affirm- 
ed in appeal; the Supreme Court holding that there was sufficient 
evidence in the case to go to a jury ... ... 28 

Where a Magistrate had acquitted an alleged receiver, on the ground 
that there was no proof that a theft had been committed, the judg- 
ment was affirmed in appeal, although the Supreme Conrt thought a 
diflerent conclusion might have been come to on the evidence 35 

A conviction for theft was reversed in appeal, as'there was such a want 

of evidence in the case that a judge would not have left itto a jury.. 50 



INDEX. 



Part I. — Police Cokkts. 



Page. 

Theft by the Police .. ... ... ... 82, 83 

A defendant cannot be convicted of theft where the evidence at most 
points to receiving with guilty knowledge .. 106,107 

THOROUGHFARES ORDINANCE.— ( Vo. 10 o/lSGl.) 

The 72nd and 73rd clauses have reference to " materials" taken for 
making or repairing bnildinga required in connection with tho- 
roughfares; and coral stones Jug anfl removed for erecting a house to 
be occupied by other than a road officer are not "materials" in the 
sense of the Ordinance ... . ... 55- 

Cutting ditches across a footpath whereby no inconvenience is caused 

to passengers is not indictable under section 9 clause 94 ... 58, 59 

TIMBER ORDINANCE.- (Orrfraaneei 24 0/1848 and 4 o/1864.) 

Where there is a doubt that the trees felled or removed fall within the 
Ordinance, fiiU enquiry should be made as to the size, quality, and 
use of the timber m question, so as to enable the Court to determine 
whether it can be deemed to be of so valuable a description as to 
support the charge ... ... ... 5 

The onus of proving that the timber cut was on other than Crown lapd 

is always on th'j defendant ... ' ... 7 

An acquittal under the Timber Ordinance still leaves the question of 

title to the land opc-n for adjudication in a (^Jivil '.'ourt ... 10, 1 1 

Objections to jurisdiction, in the absence of the Queen's Advocate's cer- 
tificate, should be taken in the Court below ... ... 19 

. Where a police headman, who had seized certain timber as not included 
in a permit, was charged with having "forcibly taken 40 goveke planka 
of the complainant," the plaitit was held to disclose no legal oilence.. 19 

Where a charge of felling timber without license had bcKU laid un- 
der a repealed Ordinance (4 of 1848 J, and the defendant had been 
acquitted, the Supreme Court refused to interfere on the ground 
that, apart from the charge having been laid under a wrong Ordin- 
ance, complainant did not appear to have had proof ready that the 
Qneeu'.s Advocate had elected to proceed in the Police Court ... 20 

The combined effect of clause 2 of Ordinance 24 of 1 848, and clause 
119 of Ordinance II of ISti-f, is to take a case of felling timber without 
license out of the jurisdiction of the Police Court, unless the Queen's 
Advocate's certificate has been obtained ... ... 35^ 35 

A defemlant is liable to conviction under the Ordinance if he cannot 
adduce better proof of the land in question being private property, 
than that he cultivated it only once 1 8 years ago, and holds a tax 
receipt in respect of such cultivation ... ... gO 

Criminal proceedings under clause 2 of Ordinance 24 of 1848 are 
null and void in the absence of a certificate from the Queen's Advo- 

<'*t^ .•• •:• ••■ ... 68,69 

Where, under a plaint for removing timber without a permit, it appear- 
ed from the evidence that the removal complained ot i;ook place after 
the time specified in a permit which the defendant had regularly ob- 
tained, the Supreme Court set aside a verdict of ac(inittal, with 



INDEX. 



Part I. — Police Courts. 



Page. 
leave to the complainant to amend the charge instead of filing a fresh 
plaint as required by the Magistrate ... •■■ ^^ 

In cases under the Timber Ordinance, a certificate by a GoTernment 
Agent or his Assistant, under clause 99 of Ordinance 1 1 of 1868, is 
sufficient to authorized Police Courts to try cases under the Timber 
Ordinance ... ... .. ... 101 

Ordinance. ... ... ... ... 101 

The oftence of felling timber on Crown land without a license, is in its 
nature single, and thp penalty imposed by the Ordinance must accord- 
ingly be taken to be single ... ... Ill 

TOhli.— (Ordinance 14 o/ 1 867.) 

Carts carrying tools and provisions for the use of persons constructing 
a road, are exempt from toll on a pass from an nfficer superintending 
the work, provided the toll-bar is within ten miles from the head- 
quarters of such officer .. ... .. 20, 21 

A jjerson who evades toll by causing a box of goods to be removed from 
a hackery on one side of a toll-bar, and loaded in another hackery on 
the opposite side, may be indicted either under the 17th or the 1 9th 
clause .. ... 22 

A bullock which does not actually assist in drawing a cart through a 
toll-bar should not be charged for as " additional " in the lower 
rate ... ... ... _ ... 26, 47 

Persons employed in repairs of roads are exempted from toll in respect 
of the animals and vehicles employed in taking them to such work, 
though not used in the work itsel£ ... ... 33 

A passenger coach which has once paid toll in passing the bar is not 
liable to pay toll a second time on tte same' day while returning 
with new passengers ... ... ... 34 

The carrying of luggage or parcels does not necessarily convert a vehi- 
cle for passengers into a vehicle for goods ... ... 34 

A sub-contractor is protected from toll by a permit obtained by a con- 
tractor in respect of materials carried for the repairs of a thorough- 
fare ... .- ■■■ ... 39 

Muriate of Potash used as manure is exempt from toll ... 44 

Driving in a hackery to a toll-station, crossing the bar on foot and 
using another hackery on the other side is no ofience, especially 
where there is no intent to evade the toll ... ... 43^ 44 

The toll-keeper at Madawelle is entitled to levy toll on carts travelling 
on the Katugastotta and Kalibokka roads, but not on carts which go 
from Teldeniya to Panwila without passing the toll-bar ... 57 

Paying toll at Taliggawille does not clear Akuressa, or vice versa ... 92 

VAGRAN TS.— ( Ordinance 4 0/ 1 84 1 .) 

Aconvictionof several" out-door proctors" on a plaint which charged 
them with " loafing about the Police Court premises without any ' 
ostensible means of subsistence," was set aside in appeal, as there 
was no evidence that the defendants were "wandering abroad" or 
were " lodging " in any verandah or other place mentioned in the Or- 
dinance. .. .•• ... .. '27 



xvi. INDEX. 

Part I. —Police Courts. 

Page. 

Where a person is con-picted of being an " incorrigible rogue," the Ma- 
gistrate is not bound to award corporal punishment, but the Court 
may, in addition to passing a sentence of imprisonment at hard labor, 
require the defendant, under clause 6, to find secuiity for good beha- 
vioiir for a year. ... . 32,38 

The practice of administering charms in order to effpct a cure cannot 
be regarded as unlawful or punishable under the Vagrant Ordinance 87 

WEIGHTS AND M^kSVKES.— (Ordinance 2 o/ 1836.) 

A Magistrate has no right to direct the payment of any portion of a 

fine to the informer ... ... ... 98 



INDEX. 



Part II. — Courts op Requests. 



Page. 

AGENCY. 

An agent who is employed to get a watch repaired in London, and is 
allowed a commission for the work, cannot charge his principal 
more than the actual cost of the repairs ... ... 24 

APPEAL. 

Where a case has been in-egularly tried, the Supreme Court will order 
a rehearing ... ... ... •■• "2; 3 

Where certain notarial deeds, though proved in due form, were rejected 
as "suspicious" by the Commissioner, the Supreme Court refused to 
interfere in appeal ... ... ••■ ■^ 

Where a Commissioner entered a non-suit, alleging that plaintiff's evi- 
dence was " very unsatisfactory," without however assigning any 
reasons for his opinion, the Supreme Court reversed the finding and 
gave iudgraent for plaintiff ... ... ••■ 19 

A sentence of imprisonment in a, case of contempt was struck out and 
a fine substituted in appeal ... ... ••• 1^9 

The Supreme Court will decline to reverse a judgment on mere tech- 
nical objections about stamps, when substantial justice has manifestly 
been done by the Commissioner ... ... ■-. 23 

A petition of appeal, when filed in time, becomes a proceeding before 
the Supreme Court, and the Commissioner has nothing further to do 
except to forward it in due course... ... — 57 

ARBITRATION. 

Objections to an award not urged in the Court below cannot be i-aised 
in appeal ... ... ... ... 4, 5 

Where judgment is not given in strict accordance with, or where no de- 
finite j udgment can be based on, an award, a new trial will be allowed ... 40 
BOND. 

See Credito?' and Debtor 
CONTEMPT. 

A. defendant cannot be charged wilh contempt for retaining possession 
of a land in respect of which the plaintiff has been nonsuited ... 35, 36 

A party charged with contempt should be bailed, or in default of bail 
committed, until the following day... ... ... 53 

CONTRACTS. 

Where the plaintiff sued for wages and it appeared that he had been 
engaged by a third party to cook for defendant while at school in 
India, held that the defendant was no party to any contract with 
plaintiff ... ... ... ... 1, 2 

Where a father directs or ratifies a contract entered into by his minor 
sou as his agent, the father may sue for a breach thereof : if the son, 
however, acts independently, he may sue by guardian ... 19^ 20 



INDEX. 



Part II. — Coorts op Requests. 



Page, 
J Money paid in pursuance of a contract which is void under the Ordin- 
ance of Frauds and which is not performed is recoverable ... 34 
/ A contract by which one person agrees to improve and cultivate land 
\J in consideration of a promise by another to give him a lease thereof 

requires to be notarial ... ... ... 42 

COSTS. 

Discreditable conduct on the part of a defendant will justify the Court 

in non-suiting the plaintiff without costs ... ... 2 

There should be a note nf the taxaiion of costs on the record before 

writs of execution can issue .. ... ... 28 

A defendant who admits having refused to allow the plaintift to redeem 
his mortgage and calls no evidence to justify such refusal should be 
cast in the entire costs of an action brought to secure such redeojption 39, 40 

Where an action was brought on a shop-bill and it transpired in evidence 
that there had been no demand for immediate payment but that, on 
the contrary, the creditor had consented to wait, held that the plain- 
tiff was properly made to pa}' defendant's costs ... ...49,50 

CREDITOR AND DEBTOR. 

The fact that the plaintift in his books had entered the account sued upon 
not in defendant's but in defendant's brother's name was held to be 
strong prima facie evidence against his claim ... 7 

It is not reasonable to reject respectable parol evidence of a loan and 

insist on the production of some written acknowledgment ... 8 

An action by a debtor to compel a creditor to grant a valid receipt for 
or to refund money paid is not maintainable, The former ought to 
tender a stamped receipt, and if the latter reftises to sign it, he 
should proceed as directed by section 2-i of the Stamp Ordinance ... 8 

Wliere a claim for goods sold was clearly ptoved, and yet the Commis- 
sioner dismissed the case on the ground that he was not satisfied that 
it was a true one, the Supreme Court reversed the finding in favor 
of plaintift, holding that to refuse judgment to a tradesman under 
such circumstances would be a denial ot justice and an encourage- 
ment to dishonest debtors ... ... ...10,11 

In an action on a Bond granted by a deceased debtor, the burden of 
proof rests on the heirs and representatives who plead payment by 
the intestate ... ... ... ... 31 

Neither a promissory note nor a receipt is necessary to enable a plain- 
tift to recover in an action for money lent ... ... 31 

In an action on a Bond which is not admitted, the instrument itself 

should be produced or its absence duly accounted for ... 35 

Payment of a debt to a person not authorised to receive the same will 

not relieve the debtor ... ... ... 45 

CROWN. 

In the absence of conclusive documentary proof, a title to land claimed 
by the Crown cannot be established by a private party, without parol 
evidence of possession and occupation ... ... 1 



INDEX. iii- 



Pakt II. — CocRTs OF Requests. 

Page. 

A judgment which operates aS res judicata outweighs the presumption 

creatt'd by Ordinance 12 of 1840 in favor of tlie Crown ■• 3, 4 

The fact of a land consisting of the bed of an old Portuguese military 
trench is strong proof that it is Government property • 9i ^'^ 

Where a plain tiflf holds under a conveyance which expressly reserves 
the right of the Crown to the minerals, he is bound to pay royalty on 
the pliimbauo found on the land; although he purchased under con- 
ditions of sale which made no muntion whatever of such right ... 32, 33 

DAMAGES. 

An ofier by plair.tifi before action to abate damages, may sometimes 
disclose an equitable ground for x-educing the amount claimed in the 
libel ... ... ... ... 5, 6 

Where a plaintiff sought to recover the value of a bullock alleged to 
have been shot by defendant, held that he was entitled to damages 
on sufRoitnt circumstantial evidence, and that the Commissioner was 
wrong in requiring direct proof of the defendant's guilt -. 8,9 

Where ])laiutif} sought to recover damages in 1872 on a lease for nine 
yeai's dated 1 865, alleging that he had been kept out of possession of 
some of the leased property for seven years, the whole of his claim 
was hold prescribed ... ... 16, 17 

The ownr^r of an animal which is strangled to death by a noose set by 
the defendant on the land of a third party is entitled to recover 
damages ... ... ... ... 20 

A horse-breaker is liable in damages to an owner whose horse h^is 

suffered by reason of unskilful and improper treatment 26, 27 

A petition to the Governor against a public officer, in a matter in which 
the petitioner has an interest, is in its nature privileged, and evidence 
of express malice must be given before a plaintiff can recover dama- 
ges ... ... ... 29 

Under the llomau Dutch Law, the owner of a brute animal is liable 

for the injury it has caused ... ... 49 

Damao'e for a breach of an agreement to marry awarded by default nine 

years after the date of the contract: refusal to open up iudgiiient ... 51 

A party who built a new wall in place of an ol'l one on another's land 
under a false claim of title held to be liable in damages to the real 
owner ... 51, 52 

A lessee suing is entitled to recover damage caused by the fallittg of de- 
fendant's tree on the trees standing in the leased property: he is also 
entitled to detain such tree until the damage is paid ... 52, 53 

DEPOSITUM. 

A depositary, who has not asked for the deposit, is liable only for los» 

by dolus or culpa lata ■ ■■• ... 5 

EVIDENCE. 

Where the substantial part of plaintiff's claim was for the value of cer- 
tain buffaloes which defendant had illegally convortpd and appro- 
priated, hel<l that it was competent for plaiutifl to prove by parol 



INDEX. 



Part II. — Courts of Rrquests. 



Page. 

evidence the delivery of the animals to defendant, though a memo- 
randum of their having been hired to him was inadmissible as 
unstamped ... ... .. ... 22 

EXECUTION. 

Where a land is sold by the Fiscal as that of a JHilgment debtor, a third 
party hns no right to claim any portion of the proceeds without first 
having the sale set aside ... ..- II 

Since the passing of Ordinance 11 of 1868, execution against person 
in all Courts of Requests cases is subject to the provisions of the 
16.'5th clause of Ordinance 7 of 1853, by which imprisonment for 
debt not exceeding Ks. 1 00 is expressly confined to cases of fraud 
only ... ... ... ...43,44 

HUSBAND AND WIFE. 

In an actifm against a wife on a Bond, it is no defence that the hus- 
band received the consideralion ... ... .. 36, 37 

Where articles which were not necessaries had been supplied to the wife, 

the husband was held liable on his subsequent promise to pay ... 55 

JUDGMENT. 

An unreserved judgment for land carries with it a i-ight to the crop 

growing thereon at the time ... ... .. 32 

Where the effect of a judgment is to place the parties in statu quo, the 
defendant cannot be allowed to derive any the least advantage from 
his own wrong ... ... ... ... 55, 56 

JURISDICniON. 

Where the right in issue to take the timber washed up by a river is 
claimed as appurtenant to a land, and the value of the right exceeds 
Ks. 100, the Court of Requests has no jurisdiction... ... 25, 26 

Where in a simple case of damage it was attempted by the pleadings 
to raise the question of title, but no evidence on this point was ad- 
duced on pither side, the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the 
judgment ol'the Commissioner on the ground of jurisdiction ... 36 

LANDLORD AND TENANT. 

A ])erson who has had the beneficial nse and occupation of a land is 
d bound to compensate the owner, even in the absence of any written 

agreement ... .. ... .. 16 

A moiitlily tenant is bound to give his landlord a full month's notice 

expiring at tl e end of a current month after the date of the notice... 23, 24 

The mere fact of a person having an equitable right to secure a con- 
veyance of a property will not entitle him to sue as landlord ... 44, 45 

A monthly tenant allowed to hold over after notice to quit is not liable 
to pay more than the rent originally agreed upon, if the landlord has 
expressly imposed no new terms ... .. ... 4S 

A tenant mny ju.stify non-payment of rent by proof that the landlord 

has coumiii ted a breach of the lease 49 

WA landlord cannot recover for more than three } ears' use and occupa- 
tion before action brought ... ... ... 54 



INDEX. 

Part II. — Courts of Requests. 



Page. 
LOCATIO CONDUCTIO. 

The contract locationis conductionis is under the same rules as to war- 
ranty and implied condition of fitness which govern contracts emp- 
tionis veuditionis ... ... ... , . 11, Ig 

MALICIOUS PROSECUTION. 

In an action for malicious prosecution plaintift should prove want of 

probable cause ... ... ... ... 54 

MESNE PROFITS. 

Under the Ordinance 8 of 1834 mesne profits, being in the nature of 

damages, were prescribed in two years .. 46, 48 

Efiect, as regards prescription, of instituting suit for land without a claim 

for mesne profits ... ... ... ... 47, 48 

MOHAMMEDAN LAW. 

It is the custom to divide a wedding fee in the following proportions : 

2-5ths to the priest, 2-5th8 to the barber and l-5th to the sexton ... 20, 22 

MORTGAGE. 

A mortgage may be paid off by the heirs of a mortgagor, with the pro- 
ceeds sale of the mortgaged property without obtaining letters of 
administration ... .. ..25 

There must be clear proof that the defendant is in possession of a de- 
ceased debtor's estate before a morlgage bond of such debtor can be 
enforced against him ... ... 31 

A prior mortgage has preference over a subsequent sale ... 39 

ORDINANCE OF FRAUDS.— (A'o. 7 of 1S40.) 

Money paid in pursuance of a contract which is void uniler the Ordin- 
ance of frauds and which is not performed is recoverable ... 34 
A contract by which one person agrees to improve and cultivate land 
in consideration of a promise by another to give him a lease thereof 
requires to be notarial . ... ... 42 

PADDY TAX. 

A Government Renter is bound to prove the quantity and value of the 
crop on which he seeks to recover tax and also the exact share to 
which he is entitled •• ••• ... 48 

PARTITION DEED. 

The recitals in a partition deed to which 'the plaintift and defendant 
with others were parties would not operate as an estoppel in an action 
not founded on that deed ... .. ... 30, 31 

PRACTICE. 

It is irregular to non-suit a plaintiff on the ground that the delay in 
making a survey was due to him, in the ab.'sence of a sworn report or 
any evidence to that effect by the surveyor ... ...27,28 

A defendant who seeks to open up a judgment obtained against him 
during liis absence should satisfy the Court that lie was prevc-n fed from 
appearing by iiccident or misfortune or by !ii)t having received suf- 
ficient information ... .. .. 28 29 



INDEX. 



Part II. — Courts of Reqdests. 



Page. 

A bond which is admitted in the pleadings need not be proved ... 33, 31 

The withdrawal of a case will not prevent its being reinstituted .. 35 

A Commissioner cannot at the same time non-suit the plaintiff and give 

judgment for the defendant . ... 35^ 

The fact of defendant not being ready at the trial will not entitle 
the plaintiff on whom the burden of proof lies to judgment without 
a hearing ... ... ... ... 43 



.r>-ar 



PRESCRIPTION. ^ ^k.,./ 

The only rules of prescription that apply to land cases in Ceylon are 
those laid down in clauses 3, 14, 15 and 16 of Ordinance 22 of 1871: 
the old law as to prescription by a quarter of a century's i)OSsession 
was abolished by Regulation 13 of 1822 . ... 17, 1» 

■\Vhere prescription has once commenced to run against a party, it 

will not be interrupted by his death and by the minority of his heirs 40, 41 

PliOCTOR AND CLIENT. 

Exorbitant charges by Proctor against client ... ...50,51 

Proctor discouraging a good appeal . ... ... 56, 57 

RKGISTRATIOV. 

The effect if the 39th clause of the Registration Ordinance is to give 
priority of claim to priority of registration ... ...'6,7 

SET-OFF. 

A party who has expressly failed in a plea of set-off in a former suit, 
cannot afterwards recover the amount of such plea from the same 
adversary .. .. ... .,, 37 

STAMPS. 

Where an instrument sued upon is expressly admitted in the answer 
and the only defence is payment, it is not competent at the trial 
to raise an objection that the document is not properly stamped ... 42 
TOLL. 

Vehicles employed in the construction of roads ai-e only exempted within 

10 miles of the Toll- station ... ... ...54,55 

VALUE OF LAND. 

The annual value of a land may be measured by what it would rent 

or would be given out in a7ide for . ... 41 

WAY OF NECESSITY. 

A private party cannot maintain an action for a right of way on the 
ground of necessity only over a land held by Government under 
clause 4 of Ordinnnce 2 of 1863: his course is to apply for a, road 
under the ])rovisions of the 9th clause ... ... 37, 39 

WILL. 

Whei-e a provision in a will is not intelligibly worded, tlie Court shfnild 
be guided by the intention of the testator as gathered from the whole 
document ... ... ... ... 29, 30 



INDEX. 



Part III. — District Courts. 



Page, 
ABSOLVED FROM THE INSTANCE. 

A judgment of " absolved from the instance " is a mere non-suit where 
botli sides have not been heard, or where at the second trial new and 
important evidence for the plaintifi is produced ... . 5 

APPEAL. 

Where the evidence did not support an acquittal, the finding was set 
aside and the case transferred, under the provisions of clause 22 of 
Ordinance 11 of 1868, from the District to the Supreme Court ... 4 

Where the defendants on a charge of cattle-stealing were wrongly ac- 
quitted, the Supreme Court set aside the finding and directed the 
transfer of the prosecution from one District Court to another ... 19, 20 

An obvious error in a judgment not appealed against may be rectified 

by the Supreme Court when the record is betore it ... 99 

ARBITRATION. 

Where an award bears a date corresponding with that of_ the letter 
under cover of which it is forwarded, the Court has no right, in the 
absence of any suggestion on the record, to assume that the same 
had been orally delivered long before such date ... , . . ', ^' ^ 

The non-production of the " proceedings, depositions and exhibits " 
which have come into the possession of an Arbitrator will not neces- 
sarily vitiate his award ... •• ...18,19 

Where a judgment is founded on an award resulting from a voluntary 

reference, there can be no appeal ... ... ••• 41, 42 

ASSAULT AND RIOT. 

Conviction on evidence : judge who tried the case complimented ... 19 

ASSESSMENT. . , , 

In an appeal against assessment for police, proof that (he total amount 
levied is in excess of the actual cost to Government is inadmissible un- 
der a o-eneral plea " that the assessment, if legal, is excessive in 
amount" ... — •■• ...iiJ.ii* 

ASSESSORS. . , , , , . , 

The opinion of Assessors in a Criminal case upheld m appeal, as against 

the verdict of the District Judge .. ••• ••• 20 

CATTLE STEALING.— (Orrfinance 6 o/ 1850.) 

Where the only evidence against an accused was that he was seen stand- 
ing near a tree with the stolen bullock in the company of two others 
w£o were found guilty of the theft, and that when the complainant 
and his party came up he and the two others wont m difterent direc- 
tions, it was held that it would not be safe to convict him of receiv- 
ing with guilty knowledge ... ••• — 94, 95 
To take or demand a reward for procurmg the restoration of a stolen 
bullock is an ofience, but not to accept a reward for the trouble 
of ascertaining the owner of m'issing cattle ... ...114,115 



INDEX. 
Part III. — District Courts. 



cj:rtiorari. 

The Supreme Court is in a position similar to ttat of the Court of 
Queen's Bench in England as to the power to issue Writs of Certio- 
rari, in respect ot which the practice of the English law will be ob- 
served ... ... ... .. 125 

COFFEE COMTBACTS. 

In an action for non-fulfilment of a contract entered into on the 1 1th 
October, 1871 " to sell 3,000 bushels of Wallarambe Estate Cofiee 
and to deliver the same by 31st December," held th&t it was no 
defence that the said Estate had yielded for the season a crop less 
than the stipulated quantity ... ... ... 12, 18 

The word.s " receiving payment at the rate of Rs. per bushel " in a 

coffee contract, would entitle the seller to payment for each parcel 

as delivered ... ... ... 137, 140 

COMPOSITION WITH CREDITORS. 

If a debtor induces a number of his creditors to take a composition, by 
a promise that there shall be no preference shewn but that all of 
them shall share alike, and he afterwards pays one more than the rest, 
his fraud vitiates the agreement and the creditors' right to sue him 
in full revives. Not so, however, where he pays two small claimants 
in full who were no parties to the composition and who were not con- 
templated at the time of the agreement ... ... 31, 35 

Under the Roman Dutch law a creditor may make a release of the 
whole of his debt without consideration, and the release will be oper- 
ative unless obtained by foul means ... ... 32 

It is a good consideration for one creditor to give up part of his claim 

that another should do the same ... ... ... 34 

CONTEMPT. .... 

The mere giving of false evidence is not a contempt, unless the falsity 
is of so flagrant and audacious a character as to call for summary 
proceedings ... ... ... .. 20, 21 

The provision in the District Court Rules that the Court " shall and 
may forthwith sentence" a party for contempt must be exercised 
subject to giving him an opportunity to shew cause ... 93, 94 

CORPORAL PUNISHMENT. 

A defendant should not be punished by two floggings, though such a 

punishment would not be against the strict letter of the law 129 0, 130 

CROWN GRANTS— (Ordinance 12 o/ 1840.) 

The Ordinance contemplates the right of the Crown to half- value of' a 
laud at the time of actual payment and not at the date at whicli the 
party in possession becomes entitled under clause 8 ... 27 

Mere payments under the Minute of Sth August, 1S(44 will not entitle 
the holder of a ticket of application to Crown land, in the absence of 
a grant ... ... .. ... 56, 58 

Chena cultivation is not the kind of cultivation and improvement con* 
templated in a Dutch Grant, containing the expression " bringing 
into cultivation" ... ... ... 142,143 



INDEX. 

PaKT III. DiSTKICT CODHTS. 



.r,TT„™ Page. 

CUSTOMS ORDINANCE. -(iVo. 17 o/ 1869.) 

Landing several oases of braudy at night without the usual authorily 
h'om the Customs Officials is not merely an " unloading " but also a 
" breaking of bulk, " and is an ofteuce punishable by fine under the 
20th clause ... ... .., ... 7 

DAMAGES. 

In reckoning damages against a bona fide possessor the value of the 

property must be regarded ... ... ... 56 

demurri:r. 

Where a libel sufficiently sets forth the cause of action and any expla. 
nation with reference to it may be secured by a viva voce examina- 
tion of the plaintift, a deiuurrer is unnecessary ... ... 21 

Where the pleadings on the face of them import sufficient consideration, 

a demurrer will be rejected ... ... ... 21 

EXECUTION. 

Proceedings in parate execution are invalid when the death of the de- 
fendant on the record occurs before they are instituted and executed. 72 

An arrest which is in itself a nullity and is not followed by commitment 

does not operate as a satisfaction or extinguishment of a debt ... 96 

EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS. 

The onus of proving payment to the testator rests on the debtor, and 
the mere production of a bond sued upon without any endorsement of 
payment hper se an insufficient defence in an action by the executor 4 

The English law as to Executors and Administrators has been in fuU 

operation in Ceylon since the Charter of 1833 ... ... 53 

An administrator will not be allowed to vexatiously sell immoveable 

property in possession of the heirs ... .. 53 

The Secretary of a District Court may be appointed to sell immoveable 
property fur cash at the Court house, when the interests of the heirs 
demand that the administrator should not be entrusted with the sale. 53 

A widow has a preferent right to administer her husband's estate in 
the absence of any special reason to the contrary ... ... 100 

With reference to the liabilities of the sureties, an administration bond 
executed in 1848 was held prescribed by the lapse of 10 years under 
the provisions of Ordinance 8 of 1834 ... 130, 131 

EX PARTE JUDGMENT. 

Where a party proceeds to obtain ex parte judgment on proclamation^ 
ample time should be given to the defendant to appear, an interval 
being allowed between the second proclamation and the trial .,.106, lit 

GIFT. j' X. J 

Where possession has been given with a deed and the donor has sur- 
vived eight months, the document, though granted in contemplation 
of (ieath^and attested by five witnesses, cannot operate as a will ... 26 
Where the property does not rest in the grantee absolutely, -but only 
as a fidei commissary, it cannot he taken in execution for his personal 
debt ... •" ... 30 

--The recital in a deed of gift that the donor is dangerously ill with a 
wound and the fact. th»t the ^lossessiou ut the duucu ii> to be post- 



INDEX. 



Part III. — District Courts. 



Pagk, 

poned until the donor's death, are not of themselves sufficient to render 

the gift a donatio mortis eausa ... ... 143, 144 

GOVERNMENT DEFAULTERS,— (OrAnance 14 o/ 1843.) 

The claim of the Oi'own dates from the day of the defaulting officer's first 
appointment, and is preferential to a creditor's mortgage subsequent 
to that date ... ... ... .. 26, 2T 

mS0LVBNCY.-(0rrfma7!ce 7 of 1853.) 

An assignee may be appointed at any stage of the Insolvency proceed- 
ings, before the final settlement, provided a meeting is duly called 
by the Court for that purpose ... ... .. 99 

The Certificate R cannot be granted where the insolvent has not been 
denied further protection and where there has been no suspension or 
refusal of certificate ... ,„ ., 101 

JURISDICTION. 

Extortion, (corruptly demanding money under a false accusation of 

cattle-stealing) is punishable by the District Court at common law... \ 

A charge against a Police Officer of abusing his authority for the pur- 
pose of concealing an ofienoe is maintainable under clause 164 of 
Ordinance 11 of 1868, where he is proved to have tampered with 
the evidence even after the accused partieshad been committed to trial 
before the District Court ... ... ... 1,3 

An assault to commit rape is an offence beyond the jurisdiction of a 

District Court ... ... ... 95 

Where a District Court has improperly entertained a criminal charge 
beyond its jurisdiction, the Supreme Court has the power by Certiorari 
to bring before it all the proceedings and quash them as illegal ... 12fi 

Neither the complainant who has brought a defendant before a District 
(Jourt on a criminal charge, nor the defendant who has pleaded to 
such a charge without objecting to the jurisdiction, can afterwards, 
either by appeal or otherwise, dispute the validity of the District 
Court proceedings . ... .. 124 

Extra charges in an indictment of breaking into a stable and .stealing 
carts cannot elevate a case of cattle stealing above the jurisdiction 
of a District Court ... ... 127,128 

Cases of Assault and Stabbing may or may not be within the jurisdic- 
tion of a District Court ... ... ... 12& 

What cases of Forgery are and what cases are not within the jui'isdic- 

tion of a District Court defined ... ... ...122,125 

KANDYAN LAW. 

A childless ■widow cannot claim both life interest and maintenance from 
the acquired and parveuy property of her deceased husband, but may 
be put to her election ... ... ... 25 

Where a deegi^- married daughter returns with her husband to the 
family property and lives in the same garden though not in the 
family house and has exclusive possession of half the said garden, the 
case is substantially one in which she regains her beena rights ...115, 116 

1^0 special formalities are required to constitute a valid adoption: it is 
sufficient if there be a formal declaration of the adoption, even with- 
out a cftlling together of headmen or relations .„ ..,117,118 



INDEX. 
Part III. — Disttjict Courts. 



Page. 
LEASE. 

The implied warranty arising from the relation ot lessor ami lessee does 
not extend to the beneiit of k sub-lessee so as to entitle him to sue 
the original lessor for damages consequent on an eviction 144, 145 

MAJORITY. 

The provisions of Ordinance 7 of 1865 cannot be regarded as retros- 
pective ... ... ... ... 55 

MARRIAGE. 

Suits to compel marriages are expressly done away with by Ordinance 

6 of 1847 ... ... ... ...21,22 

MOHAMMEDAN LAW. 

That branch of Mohammedan jurisprudence (named Wuhf) which 
relates to entails for private uses, and the connected branch in respect 
of usufructuary wills, have not been introduced into Ceylon ... 28, 31 

The Mohammedan law of India or other places does not necessarily 
obtain in Ceylon. The laws of the Mohammedan inhabitants of Cey- 
lon, when not regulated by legislative enactment, must be determined 
by usage and their laws as existing here ... ... 31 

MORTGAGE. 

An innocent mortgagee has a right to follow the mortgaged property 

and cannot be restricted to a claim on the proceeds of the sale thereof 22 

The mere silence of a mortgagee at a sale of the mortgaged property 
cannot vitiate a genume and valid mortgage; but if such mortgagee 
actively induce the vendor to purchase, by representing that there is 
no incumbrance, an estoppel in pais may be created _ ... 43 

Monies spent in the cultivation and upkeep of a cofiee estate enjoy no 
tacit hypothec upon the property with preference over a prior special 
conventional mortgage ... ... ...101,102 

In determining conflicting claims in execution, Testamentary costs and 
Executors' Commission are not to be preferred to a prior special 
mortgage, but Coolies' wages should always have precedence over all 
incumbrances ... ••• .-• ...103, 104 

Where three defendantsjoin in mortgaging as security for a debt certain 
landed property held by two of thorn under a revocable deed of 
gift from the third, the proceeds sale in execution should be applied 
in satisfaction of the mortgage, all three mortgagees being liable for 
the balance pro rata ••• <•• ...111,112 

MORTMAIN. , „ ,. , ,T . • 1 • ^ ^ 

Neither the Dutch nor the English Mortmain laws ever came into force 
in Ceylon, where the Dutch Colonial Penal laws against Roman 
Catholics have been repealed ..- , , ,, •" ,., .-59,70 

A bequest of land to the Wolfendahl Church held to be vahd ... 7i. 73 

MUNICIPAUTIES, ^ = .v. ht • • 1 n 

Road reservations are not vested in the Municipal Councils under 

Ordinance 17 of 1865 ... ... 131,135 

PARENTS AND CHILDREN. 

A father is liable to maintain and educate his children, and his being 



Yi. INDEX. 



Part III. — District Codets. 



Page. 

administrator to his deceased wife's estate will not relieve him of this 
liability ... .,. ... .. 38 

A surviving parent may maintain his children till they attain their ma- 
jority frond the usufruct and interest of their property, but up part of 
their capital can be expeuded without the special leave of the Court 35, 39- 
Conimunity of property .. ... ... 54,53 

The children of a deceased parent succeed at the death of such parent 

to a moiety of the specific lauds belonging to the ioint estate 129 N, O 

PARTITION. 

A partition decree does not bind a party who has all along disputed the 
appraisement and sale of a specific portion, where the Cpmmissionw'9 
evidence is indefinite as to the ex;act limits of the land sold ... 24 

POSSESSION. 

The Dodangalla Case. A bona fide possessor is entitled to the im^* 
pensse neoessariae, impensse in fruotuum perceptionem factae, and the 
impensse utiles also, in so far as these have enhanced the value of the 
propertj and beyond what the possessor has been reimbursed by the 
pjiotits ... „. ... ... 43, 53 

PKAOTICB. 

The absence of defendant's Proctor is per te no sufficient ground for a 

postponement ... ... ... ... 3 

Where there are two claimants to the proceeds of an execution sale 
and the bond on which one of them relies is impugned by the other 
as fraudulent, the question of priority should be disposed of not sum- 
marily but in a distinct and separate suit ... .. 1ft 

Where a plaintiff recovers judgment for mesne profits, the fact that he 
may have sued |br the amount in a previous action for the land is 
not a sufficient ground for condemning him to pay the defendant's. 
costs ... ... ... ... 24. 

In an action for land on a copy-decree (which however does not set. 
forth the boundaries) the Court, in the absence of the originail record, 
may be guided as to the limits by a writ of possession filed in a con- 
nected criminal case ... ... ... 24 

The validity of a proxy which is signed with the intention of its being 
used in Leylon must be determined according to the laws in force 
here ... ... .. ... 95 

A plaiutift is entitled to 14 days' notice of trial, where the case has not 
been fixed for trial under the 5th section of the Rules of June 17th, . 
1844 ... ..._ ... ... 98 

A judgment may be reopened on equitable grounds, especially where 

plaintift's claim has been satisfied in execution ... ... lOO 

Neither the prisoner nor his Counsel is entitled, as a matter of right, 

to a view of the J. P. depositions ... ... l6o, 101 

A plaintiff, who has not withdrawn his cause a second time from the 

trial roll, may elect to be non-suited before judgment ...120, 12} 

Where a case has been struck ofi on account of a year and a day's 
laches, the defendant should proceed to ha.ve it set down foi trial if 
be seeks to recover costs ... ... ... 135 



INDEX. '^li- 

Part III. — District Courts. 

PRESCRIPTION. 

A " Rvile " does not come within the meaning of the words " writ, 

warrant or other process of law ' in clause 5 of Ordinance 22 of r87 1 3 

Where prescription is not specifically pleaded, but the term thereof is 
stated in the answer, it is competent for the Supreme Court, in view 
of the merits of the case, to overlook the irregularity ... 6 

It is doubtful whether a person can acquire a prescriptive title by 

mere usucapio ... ... ... ' ... 7, 8 

Under the Ordinance 22 of 1872, prescription begins to run from the 
breach of the condition in, and not (as under the Ordinance 8 of 
1834) from the date of, a bond ... ... ... 131 

PROMISSORY NOTE. 

The payee of a note who has discounted it at a Bank and afterwards 
taken it up when due may sue the maker, although the tempoi-ary 
transfer to the Bank has been by full and not by blank endorsement 
and the Bank has failed to endorse back the note 125, 127 

PROPERTY. 

An owner of coal does not lose his property therein by its accidentally 
falling, into the sea. and by other persons recovering and appropriatitig 
the same : the maxim omnia contra spoliatorem prnesumuntur will 
apply to the latter ..^ ... ... 8, 9 

PROVISIOxNTAL JUDGMENT. 

No provisional judgment can be obtained against a party who is not 

served with copy of the document sued upon ... ... 6 

REGISTRATION. 

The registration of a bill of sale before a previous judgment will give 
no priority in respect of land, if parties do not claim under one and 
the same proprietor ... ... ... 23 

A deed of gift executed in 1850 does not come within the operation of 
the 39th clause of Ordinance 8 of 1863, which applies only to instru- 
ments executed after the 1st of January, 1864 ... ... 144 

RICE CONTRACTS. 

The words " delivery to be taken at the wharf," in a Rice Contract, 
imply that the party for whom the rice is iinporled should pay the 
warohouse rent actually incurred between the date of lahding and- 
the date of rernoval ... ... ... 105 

The nonpayment of ademand for more warehouse-retlt than is actual- 
ly due will not excuse the non-delivery of the rice' .. 105, 136. 

Where the vendor refuses to deliver excepting at a higher price than 
orii^inaUy agreed to; the vendee may rescind his piul-cha^e; and no 
subsequent ofter by the former to revert to the original contract T*ill 
give him a right to siie on it ... ... ...119,120 

EOYALTY ON PLUMBAGO. 

The Crown by its prerogative has the right to levy a royalty on plum- 
bago dug from private lands ." ... 129, A to 129 N 
SALE. 

A vendee is entitled to the cancellation of a sale, if it be foiind that 

the vendor can give a good title- to" only one-half of the lanj'sold ... 96 



INDEX. 



Part III. — District Courts. 



Page. 

A contract of agency may be accepted as an accord and satisfaction foi* 

a breach of a prior contract of sale ... ... 97, 98 

SEQUESTRATION. 

Where a plaintiff nnder a sequestration at common law obtained poss- 
ession of the property seized, the Supreme Court refused to interfere 
■with the proceedings though irregular, as the defendant had suffered 
no substantial wrong ... ... ...112,113 

Where an action was brought On a Charter-party conditioned for the 
performance of a voyage to Falmouth or Cork for orders without 
deviation, held that an allegation that the master was about to sail 
to ChittagoDg and had obtained a clearance for that port disclosed 
no present breach to justify the sequestration of the ship 135, 137 

SERVICE TENURES.— (OrrfjBance 4 of 1 870.) 

Under the 24th section, a plaintiff can recover for arrears of service for 
one year before action brought and for what has subsequently become 
due ... ... ... ... 25 

SLANDER, 

The best Way to meet a pettifogging action for slander is to pay a nom- 
inal sum of money into Court: if the plaintiff after that goes on and 
claims higher damages, he does it at his peril .. ... 42 

SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE. 

In cases of fraud parol evidence may be admitted to prove an agree- 
ment affecting land ... ... ... 39,40 

STAMP ORDINANCE.— r-yo- 23 0/1871. J 

A promissory note which is insufficiently stamped may be received in 
evidence at the trial subject to the penalties prescribed by the 39th 
and 40th clauses .. ... ... 116,117 

THESAWALEME. 

When a person dies intestate and without wife or issne or any full 
brothers or sisters, the property which such person inherited from 
his father devolves upon his half-brothers and sisters, provided the 
latter have not been dowried ... ... ...140,142 

USUFRUCT. 

Where a plaintiff claimed by inheritance and long possession an Owitte 
as against certain defendants who pleaded that the same was part of 
an adjoining field belonging to them, held that the District Court was 
justified on the evidence in not decreeing title to either party but in 
recognizing the respective rights of both plaintiff and defendant ... 5 

WILL. 

Held, on a question of construction, that the Jidei commissum created 
by a certain clause in a Will extended to the respective properties 
bequeathed in the three preceding clauses, and that all four clauses 
should be read together ... ... ... 9, 13 

Where a bequest was left to a daughter in the following terms " if she 
contracts a marriage according to my above expressed desire or if 
she chooses to remam single, the property shall be unconditionally hers 
at the age of one and twenty," held that the property vested in her 
at the date of her marriage although she was then not 21 years of 
age ... ... ... ... 129 O 



i 



i 




