# OCR of data/legal-sources/library/amendments/16-1951-partition.pdf
# doctr, offline, rendered at 3.0x. This is a reading of an image and carries OCR errors; it is not the source text.
===== PAGE 1 =====
                     PARLIAMENT                                    OF           CEYLON
                                         4th         Session              1951
                                                                                             :
                                                                                             de
                                                                                               23APA    isJi
                 Partition                     Act,          No.           16        of        1951
                                           Date   of  Assent   : April   12, 1951
                                       Printed   on  the   Orders   of  Government
                              Printed   at  the  CEYLON    GovT.   PRESS,   COLOMBO.     To   be        >
                              purchased    at the  GOvT,   PUBLICATIONS     BUREAU,   COLOMBO
                              Annual   Subscription    (including   Bills) Rs.  25, payable   in
                              advance   to the SUPERINTENDENT,    GOVERNMENT     PUBLICATIONS
                              BUREAU,    PosT   OFFICE   Box   500,  Secretariat,   Colombo    1
                              Price  : Re.  1                              Postage  : 15  cents
===== PAGE 2 =====
                                        Partition      Act,   No.    16  of   1951.                3
                                               TABLE       OF   SECTIONS
                          1.   Short  title and  date  of operation.
                               Institution  of partition  action and  incidental  procedure
           A              2.   Institution  of partition  action.
                          3.   Appropriate   court.
                          4.   Requisites   of plaint.
                          5.   Persons   to be made   parties.
                          6.   Application   for  registration  of lis pendens    to be  filed with
                                 plaint.
                          7.   Failure  to  comply   with  section  4, 5 or  6.
                          8.   Procedure   on  acceptance   of the  plaint.
                          9.   Determination    of actual  costs of preliminary   survey.
                         10.   Failure  to deposit  costs of preliminary   survey.
                         11.   Registrar  of Lands   to report  to court registration  of partition
                                 action  as  a lis pendens.
                         12.   Declaration   by   proctor,  and  papers   to  be  filed with  such
                                  declaration.
                                      Issue,  service and   publication  of summons
                         13.   Issue of  summons.
                         14.   Mode   of service  of summons.
                         15.   Public  notice of  institution of partition  action.
                                                    Preliminary   survey
                         16.   Commission    to survey  land  to be  issued  simultaneously    with
                                 summonses.
                         17.   Survey.
                         18.   Return   to surveyor's   commission.
                                    Procedure   in court  after appearance    of parties
                         19.   Statements    of  claims;  disclosure  of  mortgages    and  leases;
                                 lists of documents;    and  inspection  of  documents.
                        20.   Failure   to produce    material  document    of  title at trial.
                        21.    Issue  of  copies  of  plaint  and   of statements    of  claims  to
                                 parties.
                        22.    Notice  of partition action  to persons  disclosed.
                        23.    Dispute  co  to corpus  sought  to be  partitioned.
                        24.    Notice  of  trial.
                         25.   Trial.
                         26.   Interlocutory  decree.
                              Issue  of commission    for  division of land  into  lots or for
                                                     salc or  partition
          I             27.   Commission      for  division  of  land  into  lots  or  for  sale  or
                                 partition.
                        28.    Form  of  commission.
                        29.    Costs of  commission.
                           1-   -J. N. 22251-2,010 (8/50)
===== PAGE 3 =====
                                         Partition     Act,    No.   16   of  1951.
                                                Commission     for  partition
                       30.    Execution    of commission     for  partition.
                       31.    Scheme    of  partition.
                       32.    Return   to  commission.
                       33.    Manner    of partition.
                       34.    Compensation      and   owelty.
                       35.    Date   to be  fixed for  consideration   of  scheme   of  partition.
                       36.    Final  decree   of partition.
                                 Commission     for division  of land  into  lots or for  sule
                        37.   Consideration    of scheme    of division  of land  into lots.
                        38.   Valuation    of land.
                        39.   Conditions    of sale, &c.
                        40.   Notice   of  sale.
                        41.   Sale.
                        42.   Return    to  court.
                        43.   Deposit   of  purchase   money    in court.
                        44.   Disposal   of  objections  to  sale.
                        45.    Confirmation    of  sale.
                        46.    Certificate  of sale.
                        47.    Distribution   and  withdrawal    of  money   in  court.
                                         Special   provisions   relating   to decrees
                        48.    Finality  of interlocutory   decree,   and  final decree  of  partition.
                        49.    Action  for  damages    by  person  who   is not  a party  to  partition
                                  action.
                        50.    Lease   or mortgage    of  undivided   share.
                         51.   Registration   of  interlocutory   decree,  final decree  of  partition,
                                  and  certificate  of sale.
                         52.   Delivery   of  possession   of  land  to  parties  and   purchasers.
                         53.   Power   of  court  to enforce   its decrees   and  orders  and   to deal
                                  with  offences  of  contempt    of court.
                                                         Special  cases
                         54.   Right   of praveni   nilakaraya   to  institute  partition  action.
                         55.   Person   owning    a permanent     plantation   on  a land  apart   from
                                  the  soil.
                         56.    Partition  of land  belonging   to partnerships.
                         57.    Executors   and   administrators.
                                                              Costs
                         58.    Recoverable    costs.
                          59.   Costs  recoverable    by  proctor   from   his client.
                          60.   Costs  of  contest.
                          61.   Costs  of proving   title of defaulting   party.
                          62.   One   set of  costs for  parties  jointly  interested.
                          63.   Security   for costs  of  parties.
                          64.   Costs  under   sections  58 and   61 to be  a charge   on  the share  of
                                   party  from   whom    they  are  due.
===== PAGE 4 =====
                                         Partition     Act,    No.    16  of   1951.                 5
                        65.    Costs  in cases  not expressly   provided   for.
                        66.    Default  in  paying  costs  and  charges  in  previous  action  under
                                 this  Act.
                                                       Miscellaneous
                        67.    Sale, lease  or  mortgage   pendente    lite is void.
         A              68.    Appeals.
                        69.    Proof  of deeds.
                        70.    Addition   of parties.
                        71.    Result  of  non-prosecution    of  partition  action.
                        72.    Penalty   for dishonest   non-disclosure   of interested   persons.
                        73.    Penalty  for false  return,  &c., by  surveyor.
                        74.    List of  surveyors.
                        75.    Exemption     from  stamp    duty.
                         76.   Dismissal   of  partition   action.
                        77.    Service  of  process.
                        78.    Delegation   of powers   and   duties of  Fiscal  under   this Act.
                        79.:   Casus  omissus   to be  governed   by  Civil Procedure    Code.
                        80.    Forms.
                        81.    Regulations.     Power   to amend   or replace   Schedules.
                        82.    Representation    of estate  of deceased   party  or co-owner.
                        83.    Interpretation.
                         84.   Repeal.
                         85.   Amendment      of  other  written  law.
                                   FIRST     SCHEDULE.
                                   SECOND      SCHEDULE.
                                   THIRD     SCHEDULE.
                                   FOURTH       SCHEDULE.
                                   FIFTH     SCHEDULE
          4
===== PAGE 5 =====
                              Partition      Act,    No.   16   of  1951.                 7
              ÀN    AcT    TO   PROVIDE      FOR   THE    PARTITION      AND    SALE    OF
                 LAND     HELD    IN COMMON       AND   TO  EFFECT    CONSEQUENTIAL
                 AMENDMENTS           IN  OTHER     WRITTEN      LAW.
                            [Date    of   Assent:     April    12,   1951.]
                 BE      it   enacted      by    the    King's      Most      Excellent
              Majesty,      by   and    with   the    advice    and    consent    of   the
              Senate    and    the  House     of  Representatives        of   Ceylon    in
              this    present       Parliament         assembled,       and     by     the
              authority      of  the  same,    as   follows:
                                                              -
                 1.    This    Act    may     be   cited   as   the   Partition      Act,     Short title and
              No.    16  of  1951,   and    shall          into   operation     on   such     date of
                                                   come                                       operation.
              date   as  the   Minister     may    appoint     by   Order     published
              in  the   Gazette.
                    Institution      of  partition     action   and    incidental
                                              procedure
                 2.    Where      any    land    belongs    in  common       to   two   or    Institution of
              more    owners,     any    one   or  more    of   them   may     institute      partition
                   action     for   the                      sale    of   the   land    in    action.
              an                          partition      or
              accordance      with    the   provisions     of  this   Act.
                 3.    (1)  Every     partition    action    shall   be  instituted    by     Appropriate
              presenting       a  written     plaint    to  the   court,    within    the     court.
              local   limits    of  whose      jurisdiction      the   land    which    is
              the   subject    matter     of  the   action    is  situated    in   whole
              or  in  part.
                 (2)   Where     it  is  alleged    to  be   uncertain      within    the
              local  limits   of  the   jurisdiction     of  which    of  two   or  more
              courts    any    land    is  situated,    any    one   of   those   courts
              may,    if  satisfied    that   there   is  ground      for  the   alleged
              uncertainty,      record    a statement     to  that  effect   and   there-
              upon    proceed    to  entertain     and   dispose    of  any   partition
              action    relating    to  the   land;    and   such    action   SO  enter-
              tained    and   disposed    of  shall   for  all  purposes     be  deemed
              to  be  and    to  have    been    duly   instituted     in   a  court    of
              competent       jurisdiction.
                 (3)   Nothing       herein     contained       shall    affect   or    be
              deemed       or    construed       to   affect    any     provision       of
              any    written     law    (other    than    this   Act)    whereby      any
              pecuniary      or   other    limitation     has   been    prescribed      in
              respect    of  the   jurisdiction      of  any    court.
===== PAGE 6 =====
                                     8                Partition      Act,    No.   16  of   1951.
                 Requisites  of         4.    In    addition      to  the    particulars      required      to   be
                 plaint. Cap. 86.    stated    in  a  plaint    by   the   Civil   Procedure       Code,
                                                                                                            every
                                     plaint     presented      to  a  court    for   the   purpose      of  insti-
                                     tuting     a  partition     action     shall   contain     the   following
                                     particulars
                                            (a)  the   name,     if any,    and   the   extent    and   value    of
                                                      the  land    to  which    the   action    relates;
                                            (6)  a    description      of   that    land     by   reference      to
                                                      physical     metes    and    bounds     or  by   reference
                                                      to  a   sketch,    map     or   plan    which     shall    be
                                                      appended       to  the  plaint;
                                            (c)  the   names     and     addresses      of  all   persons     who
                                                      are  entitled     or  claim    to   be  entitled    to  any
                                                      right,    share,    or  interest    to,   of,  or   in  that
                                                      land    or    to   any     improvements          made     or
                                                      effected   on   or  to  that    land,   and    the   nature
                                                      and     extent     of    any     such     right,     share,
                                                      interest    or   improvements,          SO   far   as  such
                                                      particulars      are    known      to  the    plaintiff    or
                                                      can   be   ascertained       by   him;    and
                                            (d)   a  statement       setting    out,   with    reference      to  a
                                                      pedigree      which     shall    be  appended        to  the
                                                      plaint,    the    devolution      of   the   title  of   the
                                                      plaintiff    and,     where     possible,     the   devolu-
                                                      tion   of  the   title  of   every   other    person     dis-
                                                      closed    in   the   plaint    as   a   person     entitled
                                                      or  claiming      to  be  entitled     to  that   land,    or
                                                      to  any    right,    share,    or   interest    to,  of,   or
                                                      in  that   land.
                 Persons     be          5.    The    plaintiff   in   a  partition     action    shall   include
                          to         in  his                                             all              who,   to
                 made  parties.               plaint    as  parties    to the   action        persons
                                     his   knowledge,-
                                         (a)  are   entitled    or  claim    to  be   entitled-   I
                                            (i)  to  any   right,   share,    or  interest    to,  of, or   in the
                                                      land    to  which     the   action    relates,     whether
                                                      vested    or  contingent,       and    whether      by  way
                                                      of   mortgage,        lease,    usufruct,       servitude,
                                                      trust,    fidei   commissum,          life   interest,     or
                                                      otherwise,      or
                                           (ii)  to  any   improvements         made     or  effected    on  or  to
                                                      the   land;   or
                                         (6)  are   in  actual     possession     of  the   land   or  any    part  I
                                                   thereof.
===== PAGE 7 =====
                               Partition      Act,    No.   16  of   1951.                 9
                  6.     (1)  The    plaintiff   in  a  partition     action    shall   file   Application
                                   filed in          with   the   plaint                       for registratio n
               or  cause   to  be            court                                             of action as lis
                                                                                               pendens  to be
                      (a)  where     the   land   to  which     the  action    relates    is   filed with
                                situated     in   one   registration       district,    an     plaint.
                                application       for   the     registration      of    the
          A                    action     as  a   lis pendens       addressed      to   the
                                Registrar     of  Lands    of  that   district,   or
                      (6)  where    the  land   is  situated    in two   or  more   regis-
                                tration     districts,     a  separate      application
                                for  the   registration      of  the   action    as  a   lis
                                pendens      addressed       to   the    Registrar       of
                                Lands    of  each    of  those   districts.
                   (2)  The    application     or each    of the  applications      refer-
                red  to  in  sub-section     (1)  of  this  section   shall   be  in dup-
                licate  and    substantially      in  the   form    prescribed     by   the
                Registration       of  Documents        Ordinance      and    shall   con-     Cap.  101.
                tain   a  blank    space   for   the  insertion     of  the   number     to
                be  assigned     to  the  action    by  the   court.
                   (3)   Notwithstanding         anything     to  the  contrary     in  the
                Registration       of  Documents       Ordinance      or   in  any   regu-     Cap.  101.
                lation   made     thereunder,     no   fee shall   be  charged    for   the
                registration     of  a  partition    action   as  a lis pendens     under
                that   Ordinance.
                   7.    Where     the   plaintifi   in  a  partition    action   fails   to   Failure  to
                comply     with    the   requirements       of   section    4,  section    5   comply  with
                                   the                                                         section 4, 5 or 6.
                of  section    6,        court   may
                       (a)  return     the   plaint    SO  that   the    plaintiff   may,
                                then   and    there   or  within    such   time    as  may
                                be   fixed   by   the   court,    comply     with    those
                                requirements,        or
                       (6)  reject   the   plaint:
                    Provided      that   nothing     herein    contained     shall   affect
                the   right   of the  court   to  reject   the  plaint   on  any   ground
                specified    in  section    46  of  the  Civil   Procedure       Code.          Cap. 86.
                    8.    Where       the   plaint     in   a    partition     action     is    Procedure  on
                 accepted,     the  court   shall  forthwith                                    acceptance of
                                                                                                the plaint.
                       (a)   cause   to  be  inserted    in  each   copy   of  the  appli-
                                 cation   for  the  registration     of  the  action    as a
                                 lis   pendens      a   reference      to   the    number
                                 assigned     by   the   court    to  the    action,    and
                                 transmit     the  application      in duplicate     to  the
                                 Registrar      of   Lands    of   each    land   registry
                                 in  which    the   action   is  to  be  registered    as   a
                                 lis  pendens;     and
===== PAGE 8 =====
                                    10               Partition     Act,    No.   16  of  1951.
                                           (6)  fix a  date   on  or  before    which    the  plaintiff    shall
                                                    deposit    in  court   such    estimated     costs   of  the
                                                     preliminary      survey    of  the  land   to  which    the
                                                    action     relates    as   may     be   determined        by
                                                    the   court.                                                    i
                                       In   estimating      the   costs  of   such   preliminary       survey,
                                    the   court   shall   have    regard    to  the   rates   set  out   in  the
                                    First    Schedule     to  this  Act.
                Determination          9.    After     the    preliminary       survey     of   the   land    to
                of actual costs of  which     a   partition     action     relates    1s  made      the   court
                 preliminary        shall   determine      the  actual   costs  of  such   survey    in
                survey.                                                                                  accor-
                                    dance    with   the  rates   set out   in the  First    Schedule    to  this
                                    Act,    and,   if  the   actual    costs   SO  determined       are   more
                                    than    the   estimated      costs   determined       under    section    8,
                                    shall   make     order    specifying      the   party    by  whom,      and
                                    the    date    on   or    before     which,     the    amount      of    the
                                    difference     between    such    actual   costs  and    such   estimated
                                    costs   shall   be  deposited      in  court.
                Failure to             10.     (1)   Where     the   plaintiff    in   a  partition      action
                deposit             fails  to  deposit,    on  or  before    the  date   fixed   for  the  pur-
                costs of                    such    estimated              of   the   preliminary
                preliminary         pose,                          costs                                survey
                survey.             as   are   determined       by   the   court    under     section   8,  the
                                    court   shall   dismiss    such   action.
                                       (2)   Where      the   amount      required     to  be   deposited     in
                                    court   by  an   order   made    under    section    9  is not  deposited
                                    on   or   before    the   date    fixed   for   the   purpose     by   that
                                    order,    the    court   may     make     a  second     order    allowing
                                    further     time   to  the   party   who    is  liable   to  deposit    that
                                    amount.        If   that   amount      is not   deposited      in  accord-
                                    ance    with   the   second    order,    the  court   may-
                                           (a)  where     the    defaulting      party    is   the   plaintiff,   .
                                                     dismiss    the  partition                                     .
                                                                                   action,   or
                                           (6)   where    the    defaulting       party    is  a   defendant,
                                                     reject   such    part,   if  any,    of  his   statement
                                                     of  claim    as  avers   or  has   the   effect  of   aver-
                                                     ring   that  the   land   described     in  the  plaint   is
                                                     only  a  portion    of  a larger   land   which     should
                                                     have    been   made     the   subject    matter     of  the
                                                     partition     action    or   that   only   a  portion     of
                                                     the    land    SO   described      should     have     been
                                                     made    such    subject    matter.
                                        (3)   If  the  amount      due   to  a  surveyor     as   the  costs   of
                                     the  survey    of  a  land   to which     a partition     action    relates     i
                                     is  not  paid    as  ordered     by  the   court,   it  shall   be  lawful
===== PAGE 9 =====
                             Partition      Act,   No.    16   of   1951.               11
             for   the   court     to  direct     the   recovery     thereof     in   the
             same    action    as   though     the   order    for   the   payment       of
             that   amount      were    a decree     in  favour    of  that    surveyor
             against    the   party    ordered     to  pay   that   amount.
          6.
                11.     A   Registrar     of   Lands     to whom      an  application         Registrar of
             for    the    registration       of    a   partition       action     as    a    Lands  to
             lis  pendens      has    been    transmitted       boyf     court    under       report to
                                                                     a                        court
             section     8  shall,    upon     registration           the    action    as    registration
               lis  pendens,      return    to  the  court    the   duplicate     of  the    of  partition
             a                                                                               action as a
             application      duly   endorsed      in  the  manner      prescribed     by    lis pendens.
             the  Registration       of   Documents       Ordinance      on  or   before     Cap.  101.
             the   date    fixed    by   the   court    for    the   return    of   such
             duplicate.
                12.     (1)  After     a  partition     action   is  registered     as   a   Declaration
             lis  pendens       under      the    Registration        of   Documents         by  proctor, Cap. 101.
                                                                                             and  papers
             Ordinance       the  plaintiff    in  the  action    shall  file or   cause      to be bled
             to  be  filed  in  court    a  declaration      under    the   hand    of  a    with  such
                                                                          the                declaration.
             proctor    certifying      that   all  such   entries    in       register
             maintained       under    that   Ordinance       as  relate   to the   land
             constituting      the  subject    matter     of the   action   have    been
             personally     inspected     by   that   proctor    after  the   registra-
             tion   of   the   action    as   a  lis  pendens,      and    containing
             a  statement      of  the   name     of  every    person     found    upon
             the    inspection       of    those     entries     to    be   a    person
        -    whom     the   plaintiff    is  required     by  section    5  to  include
             in  the   plaint    as  a  party    to  the   action   and    also,   if an
             address     of  that    person    is  registered      in  the   aforesaid
             register,    that    address.
                (2)  The    plaintiff   in  a  partition    action    shall,  together
             with    the   declaration      referred     to  in  sub-section      (1)  of
             this   section,   file or   cause   to  be  filed  in  court
                   (a)   if  the  aforesaid      declaration     discloses    any   per-
                             son   who    is  not  mentioned       in  the   plaint    as
                             a   party    to  the    action    but   who    should     be
                             made      such    a   party    under     section     5,   an
                             amended       plaint   including      therein    that  per-
                             son  as  a  party   to  the  action,   which     amended
                             plaint    shall   be   deemed     for  all   purposes     to
                             be  the   plaint   in  the   action;
                   (6)   as  many     summonses        as  there    are   defendants,
                             each   such    summons       being   a  summons       subs-
                             tantially    in   the  form    set  out   in  the  Second
                             Schedule      to   this   Act    and    containing      the
                             name      and    address      of   the    plaintiff     and
                             the   name    and    address    of   the  defendant       on
                             whom      that   summons       is  to  be  served;
===== PAGE 10 =====
                                      12               Partition      Act,   No.   16   of  1951.
                                             (c)  if  the  language      of  any    defendant      is  Sinhalese
                                                      or   Tamil,     a  translation,      in  that   language,
                                                      of   the  summons       to  be  served   on   that   defen-
                                                       dant;
                                             (d)  as  many      copies   of   a  translation     of   the   plaint   -
                                                       in  Sinhalese     as  there   are   defendants       whose    5 =
                                                       language     is  Sinhalese,      as  many     copies   of  a
                                                       translation     of  the   plaint    in  Tamil     as  there
                                                       are   defendants       whose     language      is   Tamil,
                                                       and   as  many      copies   of   the   plaint   as   there
                                                       are   defendants       whose     language      is  neither
                                                       Sinhalese     nor   Tamil,     each   such    copy    being
                                                       a copy    certified   by  a  proctor    as  a  true  copy;
                                             (e)  one  copy    of  the   plaint   certified    by  a  proctor    as
                                                       a  true  copy,    such   copy    being   the   copy   to  be
                                                       attached      to  the   commission        issued    to   the
                                                       surveyor     who     is  to  make     the    preliminary
                                                       survey     of   the    land    to   which     the    action
                                                       relates;
                                             (f)  as   many      copies    of   a  notice    substantially       in
                                                       the  form    set  out   in  the   Second     Schedule     to
                                                       this   Act    as  there    are   lands    to   which     the
                                                       action    relates;
                                             (g)   if the   language      of  any   defendant      is  Sinhalese
                                                      or   Tamil,     as  many     copies   of   a  translation,
                                                       in  that    language,      of   the   aforesaid      notice
                                                       as  there    are   copies    of   that   notice    for   the   -
                                                       purposes      of    paragraph        (f)  of    this   sub-
                                                       section   :
                                             (h)  such    number      of  copies   of   the  aforesaid      notice
                                                       and   of  each    translation      thereof    referred    to
                                                       in   paragraph        (g)   of   this    sub-section      as
                                                       would    enable     the  transmission       of   one   copy
                                                       of  such    notice    and    one   copy    of  each    such
                                                       translation      to  the   village    headman       of   the
                                                       division    or  of each    of the   divisions    in  which
                                                       the   land   or  each    of  the   lands   to  which     the
                                                       action    relates   is  situated;     and
                                             (i)  a   precept     to  the    Fiscal    substantially       in   the
                                                       form    set  out  in  the   Second     Schedule     to  this
                                                       Act.
                                          (3)  If   the   plaintiff    fails  to  comply      with    the   provi-
                                       sions   of  the  foregoing      sub-sections      of  this   section,    the
                                       court   may    dismiss    the   action.
                                              Issue,    Service    and    Publication      of   Summons
                   Issue of               13.     (1)  Where      the   court    is  satisfied    that   a  parti-
                   summons.            tion  action    has   been    registered     as  a  lis  pendens     under
                   Cap. 101.           the   Registration       of   Documents         Ordinance,       that    the   )
                                       estimated      costs  of   the   preliminary       survey    of  the   land
===== PAGE 11 =====
                           Partition      Act,    No.    16  of   1951.               13
           to  which    the   action   relates   have    been   deposited     in  court
           and    that   the   plaintiff   in  the   action    has   complied      with
           the   provisions     of  section    12,   the  court    shall  order    that
           such     summonses,        translations       of   summonses,         copies
           and    translations      of  the  plaint,    copies   of  the  notice    and
           copies    of   the   translations       of  the   notice    as  may     have
           been    filed  in   court   under     paragraphs        (6),  (c),  (d),   (f)
           and    (g)  of  sub-section      (2)  of  section    12  shall   be  issued
           to  the   Fiscal    together     with   the   precept.
               (2)  When      making      an  order    under     sub-section     (1)  of
           this   section,     the   court    shall    appoint      a  date    for  the
           appearance        of  the    defendants       in  court    and    for   com-
            pliance    with    the   other   requirements        of   the  summons.
               (3)  The    secretary     or  chief    clerk   or  any   other    officer
           of   the   court    shall    insert    the   date    appointed       by   the
           court    under    sub-section      (2) of  this   section   in  such   sum-
           monses,     translations      of  summonses,       copies   of  the   notice
           and    copies    of  translations      of  the   notice   as  are   filed  in
            court   under    sub-section      (2) of  section    12  and   shall   sign
            them    and   the   precept     to the   Fiscal.
               (4)  If   the   language      of   any   defendant       is  Sinhalese
      >    or    Tamil,      there    shall   be    attached     to   the    summons
            issued    for   service    on  that    defendant      a  translation      of
            the  summons       in   that   language.
        -      (5)   There    shall    be   attached     to   the   summons       to  be'
            served    on   a  defendant-
                  (a)   if his   language     is  Sinhalese     or  Tamil,    a  trans-
                            lation     of   the    plaint     in   that     language,
                            and
                  ()    if his  language      is neither    Sinhalese     nor   Tamil,
                            a  copy    of  the   plaint.
               14.     The     provisions     of   the    Civil   Procedure        Code      Mode  of    C ap. 86
            relating    to  the   service   of  summons       shall   apply    in  rela-     service of
            tion       the             of                                                    summons.
                   to       service        summons       in  a partition     action.
                15.    (1)   Where     the   court    orders    the   issue   of   sum-      Public
            monses     for    service    on   the   defendants       in   a  partition       notice of
                                                                                             institution of
            action,    the   court   shall   order    that   a  copy   of   the  notice      partition
            and    a  copy    of  each    translation      thereof     filed  in  court      action.
            under     paragraph        (h)  of   sub-section      (2)  of  section     12
            be   transmitted      to   the  village    headman       of  the   division
      )     or  of   each   of  the   divisions     in  which     the   land        each
                                                                               or
            of  the  lands    to  which    the  action    relates   is  situated.
                (2)  Every     village    headman       to  whom      any   copy    of  a
          e notice    and   any   copy   of  a  translation      thereof    are   trans-
         4. mitted     under    sub-section      (1) of   this  section    shall   cause
            such    copies    to  be   exhibited     in   a  conspicuous       position
            at  his  office  for   a period    of  not  less   than   thirty   days.
===== PAGE 12 =====
                                     14               Partition      Act,   No.   16  of  1951.
                                         (3)  Where     the   value   of  the  land   to  which    a  partition
                                     action    relates    is not   less  than   fifteen    thousand     rupees,
                                     the    plaintiff   in   the   action    shall,   forthwith       after   the
                                     court    orders    the  issue   of  summonses        for  service    on  the
                                     defendants        in    the    action,     cause     a   copy     of   such
                                     notice    as  is referred     to  in  paragraph      (f)  of  sub-section
                                     (2)  of   section   12  to  be   published     in  such    newspaper      or
                                     newspapers        as  the   court   shall   determine.
                                         (4)  The    Fiscal    shall   cause-
                                            (a)  a  copy    of  the   notice   issued    to  him   under     sub-
                                                      section    (1)  of  section    13  to  be  exhibited     in
                                                      a  conspicuous       position     on   the   land    or  on
                                                      each    of    the   lands     to   which      the   notice
                                                      relates,   and
                                            (b)  the   contents      of  the   notice     to  be   orally   pro-
                                                      claimed,    after   beat  of  tom-tom,     on  such   land
                                                     or   on   each    such    land   and    at   some    public
                                                      place    in  the   neighbourhood         of   such    land
                                                     or   of  each    such    land    or  in   the   village   in
                                                      which     such     land    or    each    such     land    is
                                                      situated.
                                                              Preliminary        Survey
                  Commission  to         16.    (1)   When       the     court     orders     the     issue    of
                  survey  land  to                    to  the  Fiscal    for   service        the  defendants
                  be issued          summonses                                           on
                  simultaneously     in  a  partition     action,    the   court   shall   at  the  same    time
                 with  summonses.    order    the  issue   of  a commission       to  a  surveyor     directing
                                     him    to survey     the  land    to  which    the  action    relates   and
                                     to  make     due   return    to  his   commission       on  a  date    to be
                                     fixed    therein     which    shall   not    be  later   than    the   date
                                     specified     in  the   summonses       for   the   appearance       of  the
                                     defendants:
                                         Provided      that    the  court    may,    in   its  discretion,     fix
                                     a  date   later    than   that   specified    in  the   summonses,       or,
                                     if  necessary,      extend     the  date   fixed    in  the   commission
                                      from    time    to  time    as   the   circumstances        of   the   case
                                     may     require.
                                         (2)  The    commission       issued    to  a surveyor      under    sub-
                                     section     (1)  of   this   section    shall   be   in  the   prescribed
                                      form    and    shall   have    attached      thereto    a   copy   of   the
                                      plaint.     The    court   may    in  such   commission       make     pro-
                                     vision    authorising       the   surveyor      to  survey    any    larger
                                      land   than   that   described     in  the  plaint   if any    defendant
                                      named     in  the  plaint    points    out  such   larger    land   as   the
                                      land    which       should     be    the    subject-matter         of   the
                                      partition     action.
                  Survey.                17.    (1)   On   receipt    of  his  commission,       the   surveyor
                                     shall   fix  a  date   for  commencing        the   survey    of  the   land
                                      referred     to  therein     and   shall,   at   least   fourteen      days
===== PAGE 13 =====
                            Partition     Act,    No.   16   of  1951.               15
            before    that    date,    issue   notice    in   writing     to  all   the
            parties     named      in    the   plaint     that    he   proposes       to
            commence      the   survey   of  the  land   on  that   date.
          f    Such    notice    to any    party    shall   be  in  the   prescribed
            form    and    shall    be  sent   to   him    through     the   post    by
            registered     letter   directed     to  the  address     stated   in   the
            plaint.
               (2)  In    addition       to   the    written     notice     required
            to  be   issued    to   the   parties    under     sub-section      (1)  of
            this  section,    the   surveyor     shall,  at  least   fourteen     days
            before     the   date    fixed    by   him    for    commencing         the
            survey,    cause   the  fact   that  he  will   commence      the  survey
            on   that   date    to  be   orally    proclaimed,       after   beat    of
            tom-tom,     on  the   land   to be  surveyed.
               18.     (1)  The    surveyor     shall   duly    execute     the   com-     Return  to
            mission    issued    to  him   and    shall,  on   or  before   the   date    surveyor's
            fixed   for  the                make    due              thereto   in   the    commission.
                               purpose,                    return
            prescribed     form    and   shall   transmit    to  the  court-
                  (a)   a  report,    verified   by   affidavit,    stating
                            (i)  the  dates   on   which    notice   of  survey    was
                                      issued   to  the  parties;
                            (ii) the     nature     and     value    of    the    land
                                      surveyed      and     of    any     buildings,
                                     walls,    trees,   fences,    wells.     planta-
                                     tions      and       other      improvements
                                      thereon,      and    the    details     of    his
                                      computation      of   such   value;
                           (iii) the   parties    to the   partition     action   who
                                     were    present    at  the   survey,    and   the
                                      name    and   address    of any    person    (not
                                     being    a  party   to  the   action)   who,    at
                                     the    time    of  the    survey,     preferred
                                     any    claim,    and    the   nature    of   such
                                      claim;
       -                  (iv)  the    result   of   his   investigation      of   any
                                      particular     fact  or  matter    specifically
                                      referred     to   in    the    terms    of    his
                                      commission;       and
                           (v)  any      fact,     matter      or     circumstance
                                      relating    to his   survey    or  to the   land
                                     surveyed        which,     in    his   opinion,
                                     may     be   necessary     for,   or   prove    of
                                      assistance     in,  the   determination        of
                                      the  partition     action;
                  (6)  a    plan    of   the    land     surveyed,      verified     by
           d                affidavit,    showing
                            (i)  the   boundaries      of  any    divisions    of   the
                                      land    subsisting     at  the    time   of   his                             F
===== PAGE 14 =====
                                   16               Partition     Act,    No.   16  of  1951.
                                                             survey,      such     divisions      being      in-
                                                             dicated      by    appropriate        letters    or
                                                             numerals;
                                                   (ii)  the  locations    of  all  buildings,     walls    and
                                                             wells,   such    locations    being    indicated
                                                             by   appropriate       letters   or   numerals;
                                                  (iii) the    trace   or   course    of  any    road,     path
                                                             or   stream     within    the   boundaries       of
                                                             the   land;    and
                                                  (iv)  any   other    physical     feature    of   or  on  the
                                                             land    which,     in  his   opinion,     may    be
                                                             necessary      for,  or  prove    of  assistance
                                                             in,     the      determination           of    the
                                                             partition      action;    and                        -
                                          (c)  a  certified    copy    of  his   field   notes.
                                       (2)  The    documents        referred     to  in   paragraphs        (u),
                                    (6)   and     (c)  of   sub-section      (1)   of  this    section   mate
                                    without      further     proof,     be   used    as   evidence     of
                                    facts   stated   or   appearing       therein    at  any    stage   of   the
                                    partition     action   :   Provided      that    the   court    shall,   on
                                   the   application      of  any    party   to  the   action   and   on   such
                                    terms    as  may    be   determined       by   the   court,   order    that
                                    the  surveyor      shall   be  summoned        and    examined       orally
                                   on   any     point    or   matter     arising    on   or   in   connexion
                                    with   any    such    document      or   on   any   statement      of   fact
                                    therein    or  any    relevant     fact   which     is  alleged    by   any
                                    party   to  have    been   omitted     therefrom.
                                       (3)  (a)  Nothwithstanding           anything     in  sub-section     (2)
                                    of  this   section,     the   court,    either    of   its  own    motion
                                    or  on   the   application      of   a  party    to  the   action,    may,
                                    before   using    the   copy   of  the   surveyor's      field  notes   and
                                    the  plan,   cause     them    to  be  verified    and    to  be  certified
                                    as  correct    or,  where     such   field   notes   and    plan    are  in-
                                    correct,    cause   fresh    field  notes    and   a  fresh    plan   to  be
                                    made    by   the   Surveyor-General         or   by  any    officer  of  his
                                    Department         authorised      by    him    in   that    behalf,    and
                                    may     for    that    purpose      issue     a  commission         to   the
                                    Surveyor-General.
                                       (b)   As   soon   as  may    be  after    the  receipt    by   the  Sur-
                                    veyor-General        of   any    commission        issued     under     this
                                    sub-section,     the   Surveyor-General          or  any    officer  of  his
                                    Department         authorised      by    him    in   that   behalf     shall
                                    verify    the   field  notes    and    the  plan    received     with    the
                                    commission       and    shall,   where     they   are   correct,    certify
                                    them    to  be  correct    or,  where     they   are   incorrect,     make
                                    fresh   field   notes   and    a  fresh    plan,   and    the   Surveyor-i
                                    General     shall  make     a due   return    to the  commission       withy
                                    the  field  notes   and   the  plan   SO  certified   or  with   the  fresh
                                    field  notes   and    the   fresh    plan.
===== PAGE 15 =====
                               Partition     Act,    No.    16  of   1951.               17
                  (c)  The    field  notes   and    the   plan   certified    as  correct
               under     paragraph       (6)  of  this   sub-section,     or   the   fresh
               field  notes    and   the   fresh    plan    furnished     be    the  Sur-
               veyor-General        under    that   paragraph,      shall       used   for
               the   purposes      of  sub-section      (2)  of   this  section     at  all
               stages    of  the   action    subsequent      to  the   receipt    by   the
         A              of   the              made     by   the    Surveyor-General
               court               return
               under    that   paragraph.
                  (d)   The     Surveyor-General,          or   any     officer   of   his
               Department         authorised     by   him    in  that    behalf,    shall,
               for   the   purposes     of  the   execution      of  any    commission
               issued    under     this   sub-section,     have    power     to   inspect
               or  survey     the   land    after    giving    not   less   than    seven
               days'   notice   to  the  parties    to the  action    of his   intention
               SO  to  do.
                  (e)  The     Surveyor-General          shall   not   be   entitled     to
               the   reimbursement        of   the  costs   incurred     in  the   execu-
               tion   of   a  commission        issued    to  him    under     this   sub-
               section   unless    the  court,    upon   the   amount     of  such   costs
               being    certified    to  the   court   by   the   Surveyor-General,
               makes     order    specifying      the   party    by   whom,     and    the
               date    on    or    before     which,      that    amount       shall     be
               deposited     in   court.
                  (f)  The     party    depositing      the    amount      of  the   Sur-
               veyor-General's        costs   shall  be   given    credit   therefor     in
               such   manner      as   the   court   may    direct.
                  (g)   If  the   costs  due   to  the  Survevor-General          are  not
               deposited      as  ordered     by   the   court,   it  shall   be   lawful
               for  the   court   to  direct   the  recovery     thereof    in  the  same
               action    as   though     the   order    for   the   payment      of  such
               costs   were     a  decree    in  favour     of  the    Crown      against      Cap. C
               the   party    ordered    to  pay   such   costs.
                   Procedure      in . Court   After    Appearance        of  Parties
                  19.     (1)  On   the   date   for  appearance       in  court    speci-     Statements
               fied  in  the   summons       issued   in  a  partition     action    or  on    of claims;
               such    later  date   as   the  court   may    fix  for  the   purpose          disclosure
                                                                                               of mortgages
                      (a)         defendant      in  the   action          file                and  leases;
                           any                                      may         or   cause     lists of
                               to   be   filed  in   court   a   statement      of  claim      documents;
                                setting    out   the              and              of   his    aud
                                                       nature            extent                inspection
                               right,    share   or  interest    to, of  or  in  the  land     of documents.
                               to   which     the   action    relates,   and     shall,   if
                                he   disputes     any    averment       in   the    plaint
                                relating    to  the    devolution     of   title,  file  or
                                cause   to  be  filed  in  court,   together    with    his
                                statement      of    claim,    an    abstract      of   the
                                devolution      of    title  with     reference       to   a
                                pedigree      which     shall   be   attached      to   the
                                abstract;
                   2-J.   N. 22261 (8/60)
===== PAGE 16 =====
                                  18              Partition      Act,   No.   16   of  1951.
                                        (6)  any    party    to  the  action    whose    right,    share   or
                                                  interest    to,  of  or  in  the   land   1S  mortgaged
                                                  or  leased   by  an   instrument      registered    under
              Cap.  101.                          the   Registration       of  Documents        Ordinance
                                                  shall   disclose   or  cause    to be  disclosed     to the
                                                  court   the   existence    of  the  mortgage      or  lease
                                                  and   the  name     and   address    of  the  mortgagee
                                                  Ol' lessee;   and
                                         (c)  every    defendant       in  the   action     shall   disclose
                                                  or   cause    to  be   disclosed     to  the    court   the
                                                  name      and    address     of   every     person,     not
                                                   being    a  party     to  the   action,    who     to   his
                                                  knowledge       has   any   right,    share   or  interest
                                                  to,  of  or   in  the   land.
                                     (2)   (a)   Every    party   to  the  action    shall,  not   less  than
                                  thirty    days   before    the   date   of  the   trial  of   the  action,
                                  file  or   cause   to   be  filed   in  court    a  list  of   documents
                                  on   which    he  relies   to  prove   his  right,    share   or   interest
                                  to,  of  or   in  the  land    together    with    an   abstract    of   the
                                  contents     of  such    documents.         No    party    shall,   except
                                  with    the   leave   of  the   court   which     may    be  granted      on
                                  such    terms    as  the   court   may     determine,      be  at   liberty
                                  to  put   any    document      in  evidence     on   his  behalf    in   the
                                  action    if no   such   list  as  aforesaid     has   been    filed by   or
                                  on   behalf    of  him    in  court,   or  if  that   document       is not
                                  specified     in   a  list  SO   filed,  or   if  an   abstract     of   the
                                  contents     of  that   document      has   not   been   SO  filed.
                                      (b)  Any     party   to   a  partition    action    who     desires   to
                                  inspect    any   document      specified    in  the  list  of  documents
                                  filed   in  court   under     paragraph       (a)  of  this   sub-section
                                  by   any    other     party    to   the   action     may,     by   motion
                                  ex   parte,   obtain    an   order   of   court   to  that   other wiarty
                                  to   produce     that   document,       at  such    place    and
                                  such    time    as  may     be  specified     in  the   order,     for   the
                                  inspection     of  the  first  mentioned      party   or  of  his  proctor
                                  and    to  permit      such    party    or   proctor    to   take   copies
                                  thereof.       The   party    obtaining     such   order    may    himself
                                  serve    or  cause    to  be   served    such    order    on  that    other
                                  party.
                                     (c)   Where     any    party   to  a  partition     action    to  whom
                                  an   order    under     paragraph       (6)   of   this   sub-section     is
                                  issued    fails  to comply     with    that  order    in  regard    to  any
                                  document       to   which     that   order     relates,    he   shall   not
                                  afterwards       be  at  liberty    to  put   that   document      in   evi-
                                  dence   on   his  behalf    in  the  action    unless   he   satisfies  the
                                  court    that   he   had   sufficient    cause    for   not    complying
                                  with   the   order.
             Failure uresterro to    20.     Every    party    to  a  partition     action    who    fails  to
             duce                 produce     in  court    at  the   trial   of  the   action    any   docu-
             document  of        ment     relating    to  his   title  shall,   if  the  court    SO  orders
             title at trial.
===== PAGE 17 =====
                              Partition     Act,   No.    16  of  1951.               19
               on  being    satisfied   that   such   document      is  material    for
               establishing      the  title  of  such    party,   be   liable   to  pay
               the  costs   incurred    by   any  other    party   to  the  action    in
               procuring     such   document      or  in  furnishing     to the   court
            -  proof   of  the   contents     thereof.
           A      21.    Every    person    named     in  the  plaint,   or  desiring       Issue of copies
               to be   added,    as  a  party   to  a  partition    action,   shall  be     of plaint and
               entitled,   on   payment      of     fee  of                 to  obtain      of statements of
                                                 a           one  rupee,                    claims to
               from    the   court   a  copy   of  the   plaint   or  of   any   state-     parties.
               ment   of  claim    in  that  action.
                  22.    (1)  The    court   shall  order   notice   of   a partition       Notice of
               action   to be  issued   to  the  Fiscal    for service-                     partition action
                     (a)                                                                    to persons
                          on   every   claimant      (not  being    a  party    to  the     disclosed.
                              action)    who   is  mentioned      in  the   report   of
                              the  surveyor    under    sub-section    (1) of  section
                              18,  and
                     (6)  on  every   person    disclosed    under    paragraph      (c)
                              of   sub-section       (1)   of   section    19    by    a
                              defendant      in  the  action.
                  (2)  The    plaintiff   in  a  partition     action   shall   file or
               cause   to  be  filed  in  court    the  notices   which     are  to  be
               issued    to   the   Fiscal    under     sub-section      (1)  of   this
               section:
                  Provided     that   a  defendant     who   discloses    any  person
               referred    to  in  paragraph      (6)  of  sub-section    (1)  of  this
               section,    and   not   the   plaintiff,    shall,  if  the   court   SO
               orders,    file or   cause    to  be   filed  in   court   the   notice
               which    is  to  be   issued    to  the   Fiscal   under     that   sub-
               section   for   service   on  that   person.
                  23.    (1)  Where      a  defendant      in  a  partition     action     Dispute
               avers   that   the   land   described     in  the  plaint    is only    a   as to
               portion    of  a larger   land    which   should    have   been   made      corpus sought
               the  subject    matter   of  the  action   or  that   only  a  portion      to be
               of  the  land   SO   described     should   have   been    made    such      partitioned.
               subject    matter,    the  court   may   on   such   terms   as  to  the
               deposit    or   payment      of  costs   of  survey     as  the   court
              niax    order,   issue  a  commission      to  a surveyor     directing
                     to  survey     the  extent   of   land   referred    to  by  that
               defendant.
                  (2)  The    provisions    of  sections   17  and   18  shall  apply
               in relation    to a survey    under   a commission      issued   under
               sub-section     (1) of  this  section.
                  (3)  Where     a survey    made    under   a  commission      issued
              under     sub-section    (1)  of  this  section    discloses   that   the
               land   described     in  the   plaint    is  only   a   portion    of   a
               larger   land   which     should    have   been   made    the   subject
               matter    of  the  action,   the  court   shall   specifiy  the   party
              to  the  action   by  whom,    and   the  date  on  or  before   which,
              an   application      for  the   registration    of   the  action    as  a
===== PAGE 18 =====
                                    20               Partition.     Act,   No.    16  of  1951.
                                   lis  pendens      affecting     that   larger     land   shall    be  filed  in
                                    court,    and    the  provisions       of  sections     6,   8  (a)  and    11
                                   shall   apply     to  that   application.
                                       (4)   The    party     to  the   action     specified     by   the   court
                                    under     sub-section      (3)  of   this   section-
                                          (a)   shall   file  or  cause    to  be   filed  in  court    a  state-
                                                     ment    setting     out   the   names     and    addresses
                                                     of  all   persons      (other   than     persons     named
                                                     in  the   plaint    as  parties     to  the   action)   who
                                                     are  entitled     or  claim     to  be  entitled     to  any
                                                     right,     share,     or    interest      to,   of    or   in
                                                     the   larger     land    referred      to   in   that   sub-
                                                    section     or   to   any    improvements          made     or
                                                    effected    on   or   to  that   land    and    the   nature
                                                     and     extent      of   any     such     right,      share,
                                                     interest    or   improvements,          SO   far   as   such
                                                     particulars       are   known      to   him     or   can   be
                                                     ascertained       by  him,     and
                                           (b)  shall,    after    the   action     is  registered      as   a  lis
                                                     pendens      affecting    such     larger    land,    file or
                                                     cause    to   be   filed   in    court    a   declaration
                                                    under     the  hand    of   a  proctor    certifying     that
                                                     all  such   entries    in   the   register    maintained
                                                    under       the     Registration         of     Documents
               Cap.  101.                            Ordinance      as  relate   to  such   larger    land   have
                                                    been     personally      inspected      by   that    proctor
                                                    after    the    registration       of   the   action     as.a
                                                    lis  pendens      affecting     such   larger    land,    and
                                                     containing      a statement      of  the   name    of  every
                                                     person     found    upon     the   inspection      of  those
                                                    entries     to  be   a  person     whom      the    plaintiff
                                                    is   required     by   section     5  to  include     in   the
                                                    plaint    as  a  party    to  the   action   if  the   action
                                                    is  in  respect    of   such   larger     land,   and    also,
                                                    if  an   address      of  that    person     is  registered
                                                    in  the    aforesaid     register,     that    address.
                                       (5)   Where      on   an    application       filed   in   court    under
                                    sub-section      (3) of  this   section   the   action    is registered     as
                                    a lis pendens      affecting    a  larger   land    than   that   described
                                    in  the  plaint,    the  court    may    proceed     with    the   action   as
                                    though     it had    been   instituted      in  respect    of  such    larger
                                   land,    and    may,     for   such    purpose,     make      any   order    in
                                   regard     to  service    of  notice    of  the   action    on  any    person
                                   who    should     be  added     as  a  party    to  the   action    and   such
                                   other     orders     as   the    circumstances         of   the    case   may
                                   require.
===== PAGE 19 =====
                            Partition      Act,    No.    16  of   1951.               21
               24.     The    court    shall   fix   the   date   of   trial   of  every      Notice of
             partition     action,     and,   if   the   court    SO  orders,     notice      trial.
        $   of  such   date    shall  be  given    in  such   manner      and   to  such
            persons     as   the  court    shall   specify.
       A
                25.    On    the   date   fixed   for   the   trial   of  a  partition        Trial.
            action    or  on   any   other    date   to  which     the  trial   may    be
            adjourned,       the   court    shall   examine       the   title  of   each
            party    and    shall   hear    and   receive    evidence      in  support
            thereof     and    shall   try   and    determine      all  questions      of
            law   and    fact   arising     in   that   action    in  regard     to  the
            right,    share,   or  interest    of  each    party   to,  of,  or  in  the
            land    to  which     that   action    relates,    and    shall   consider
            and    decide    which     of   the  orders     mentioned      in   section
            26  should     be  made.
               26.     (1)  At  the   conclusion     of  the   trial  of  a  partition       Iaterlocutory.
            action,   Or   on  such    later   date   as  the   court   may    fix,  the     decree.
            court   shall   pronounce       judgment      in  open   court,    and   the
            judgment       shall   be   dated    and    signed    by   the   judge     at
           the   time    of  pronouncing        it.   As    soon   as  may    be  after
           the   judgment       is  pronounced,        the   court   shali   enter    an
           interlocutory       decree    in  accordance      with    the  findings    in
           the   judgment,       and    such   decree    shall   be   signed    by   the
           judge.
               (2)  The     interlocutory       decree     may     include     one    or
           more    of  the  following     orders,    SO however      that  the  orders
           are   not   inconsistent      with    one    another    -
                  (a)  order    for  a  partition     of  the  land;
                  (6)  order    for  a  sale  of  the  land   in  whole    or  in  lots;
                  (c)  order    for   a  sale   of  a  share    or   portion    of   the
                            land   and    a  partition     of  the   remainder;
                  (d)  order    that   any    portion    of  the   land    represent-
                           ing   the   share    of  any    particular     party    only
                           shall   be  demarcated       and   separated      from   the
                           remainder        of   the   land;
                 (e)   order    that   any    specified     portion     of   the   land
                           shall    continue       to   belong     in   common        to
                           specified     parties    or  to  a   group    of   parties;
                 (f)   order    that   any   share    shall   remain     unallotted.
              (3)   Where     in  a  scheme     of  partition     of  a  land   under
           this  Act   a Ofiten    is  entitled   to  a divided     portion    which,
          by   reason        its  trivialness    in  extent    or  value,   the  court
          considers      it   inexpedient       to  allot   to   that    person,    the
           court    may,     on   the   payment       to   that   person      of  such
          compensation         as  may    be  determined       by  the   court,   allot
        A  that   portion    to  any   other   person     who   in  that   scheme     is
           entitled     to   a    divided      portion      adjoining       the    first
           mentioned       portion.
===== PAGE 20 =====
                                      22              Partition      Act,   No.   16   of 1951.
                                         (4)  Where      a  partition      action    is  in   respect    of  two
                                     or   more    lands,   the   interlocutory      decree   may,    in  lieu  of
                                     ordering      the   allotment     of  divided     portions    in . all such    ,
                                      lands   to  the   persons    entitled    thereto,    order    that   -
                                            (a)   any   divided     portion     or  portions     of  one   or  of
                                                      some    of  such    lands,    or
                                            (6)   the  entirety     of  one   or  of  some    of  such    lands,
                                                      whether     with    or  without     any    divided     por-
                                                      tion   or  portions     of  any   other    such   land   or
                                                      lands,
                                      be  allotted    to  any   such   person,     whether     with    or  with-
                                      out  the   award     to him    of  owelty    or  of  compensation       for
                                      any   improvements        made     by  him    to any   such    land.     In
                                      any   order    under    this   sub-section     the  court    shall   deter-
                                      mine    the  amount     of  any   owelty    or  of  any   compensation
                                      for  improvements        and   the   party   by  whom     and   the  party
                                      to  whom     such   owelty    or  compensation        shall  be  paid.
                                         (5)   Where     in  an   interlocutory       decree    the   court   has
                                      ordered     the  sale   of  a  share   or   portion    of  the  land    and
                                      the   partition    of  the   remainder,       the  court    may    allot  to
                                      each    of   the   parties     such    share    of   the   money     to   be
                                      realized     by   the   sale  of   the   share    or  portion     of   land
                                      ordered     to  be  sold,   or  such   share    of  the  soil  in   the  re-
                                      mainder      ordered      to  be   partitioned,      or  such    share    of  1
                                      both   the   money     and   the   remainder      of   the  land,    as  the
                                      court    may    consider     just   in  the   circumstances       of   each
                                      case.
                                           Issue   of   Commission       for   Division     of  Land     into
                                                        Lots   O7' for  Sale   or  Partition.
                  Commission  for        27.    in)    Where     the  court    decides   that   the   land   shall
                   division of land   be  sold      lots,  the  court    shall,  at  the  time   of  pronounc-
                   into lots, or for
                   sale or partition. ing    judgment      or  on   a later   date   notified    by  the   court,
                                      order    the  issue   of  a  commission       for  the   division    of  the
                                      land   into   lots  to  a person    to  be  named     in  the   order   and
                                      in  open   court   fix  the  returnable     date   of  the  commission.
                                          (2)  At   the   time    of  pronouncing         judgment      or   on   a
                                      later   date   notified   by  the  court    the  court   shall   order   the
                                      issue   of  a  commission       for  sale,   or  for  partition,     or  for
                                      both   sale  and    partition,    or  of  two   separate    commissions
                                      for   sale  and   for  partition     as  the  case   may    require,    to  a
                                       person    to be  named     in  the  order   and   shall   in  open   court
                                      fix  the  returnable      date   of  the  commission      :
                                          Provided      that,    where     the   court   orders     a  sale,   thek
                                       court   shall,  if  the  value    of  the  extent   of  land   to  be  sold
                                       is not  more    than   two   thousand      five hundred     rupees,    and
===== PAGE 21 =====
                               Partition      Act,    No.    16  of   1951.               23
               may,     if  such    value     is  more     than    two    thousand      five
               hundred      rupees,    order    the  Fiscal    to conduct      the  sale  in
        $      accordance       with   the   provisions      of  this  Act.
                  (3)   Where      the   court    decides     that   the    land   or   any
       f       portion     thereof     shall   be   partitioned,       the   commission
               under     sub-section     (2)  of   this  section    shall   be   issued   to
               the   surveyor     who    made     the   preliminary       survey    unless
               the   court    directs   that   such    commission       shall   be   issued
               to  some    other    surveyor.
                  (4)   The    court    may     from     time    to   time   extend      the
               returnable      date    referred     to  in   sub-section      (1)  or  sub-
               section    (2)  of   this  section.
                  (5)   The    court   may    revoke    a commission       issued    under
               this   section   and    order   the   issue   of  a  fresh   commission.
                  28.     Every     commission       issued   under    section    27   shall     Form  of
               be   substantially      in  the   prescribed     form    and    shall   have      commission.
               attached      thereto
                      (a)  a  copy   of  the   interlocutory      decree   certified    as  a
                                true   copy   by   the  secretary     or  chief   clerk   or
                               by   any   other    officer  of   the  court,    and
                      (6)  a  statement       specifying     the   place    of  residence
                               of   each    party   who    has   been    allotted    in  the
                                interlocutory       decree     any    right,    share     or
                                interest    to,  of  or  in  the   land    to  which     the
                                decree   relates.
                   29.    (1)   Where      the  court    orders   a  commission        to be     Costs of
                issued,   the   court   shall-                                                   commission.
                      (a)   determine      the   amount      to  be   deposited      as  the
                                costs   of  the   commission,        such    costs   in  the
                                case   of   a  commission        for   partition      being
                                determined       according       to  the   rates    set  out
                                in  the   Third     Schedule     to  this  Act:
                      (6)   fix  a   date    on   or   before    which      the   costs    SO
                                determined       shall   be  deposited     in  court;   and
                      (c)   specify    the   party   by   whom     the   costs   are   to  be
                                deposited.
                   (2)   If  the   costs    are   not   deposited      in  court    by   the
                party    specified    on   or  before    the   date   fixed   under     sub-
                section    (1)  of  this  section    or   within    such    further     time
                as  may    be  allowed    by   the  court    on  application      made     in
         A9     that   behalf,    the   court   may     order    or  permit     any    other
                party     to   deposit     the   costs   and    fix   a   date    for   that
                purpose.
===== PAGE 22 =====
                                    24              Partition     Act,   No.    16  of  1951.
                                       (3)  If   the    costs   are   not    deposited      by    the   party
                                    ordered    or   permitted     SO  to  do  under     sub-section     (2) of
                                    this  section   on  or   before   the  date   fixed   for  the   purpose
                                    or  within     such    further    time    as  may    be   allowed,     the
                                    court   may    dismiss    the  action   or  make     such   other   order
                                    as  the  circumstances       may     require.
                                       (4)  The    party     depositing      costs   under     this   section
                                    shall   be  given    credit    therefor    in  such    manner      as  the
                                    court   may   direct.
                                                        Commission       for   Partition
                 Execution of          30.    (1)  On    receipt   of  a commission       to  partition    the
                 commission  for    land,   the  surveyor     shall   fix a  date   for  partitioning      the
                 partition.         land   and   shall,  at  least   fourteen    days   before    that  date,
                                    issue   notice   in  writing    to  each   party    mentioned      in  the
                                    statement     attached     to the  commission       that  the  land   will
                                    be  partitioned     on  that   date.
                                       (2)  A    notice    to   any   party     under     sub-section       (1)
                                    of  this   section    shall    be  in   the   prescribed      form    and
                                    shall   be  sent   to   him    through     the   post   by    registered
                                    letter   addressed     to   his  place   of  residence     specified    in
                                    the  statement      attached     to the   commission.
                                       (3)  In   addition    to  the   written    notice    required    to  be
                                    issued     under     sub-section       (1)   of   this    section,     the
                                    surveyor     shall,   at least   ten   days   before    the   date  fixed
                                    for  partitioning      the  land,   cause   to be  orally   proclaimed
                                   on   the   land,   after   beat   of   tom-tom,     the   fact   that   the
                                   land   will   be  partitioned      on  that  date.
                                       (4)  The    date    fixed    under     sub-section      (1)   of   this
                                   section     for   partitioning      the    land   may     from    time   to
                                    time    be  altered     to  a   later   date   by   the    surveyor     by
                                    written    notice    addressed      to  the   parties    mentioned      in
                                    that   sub-section.        Every     such   notice     shall,   not   less
                                    than   seven    days    before    such   later   date,    be  served    in
                                    the  manner      provided     in  sub-section     (2) of  this   section
                                    and    a   copy    of    the    notice    shall,    in   addition,      be
                                    exhibited    in  a  conspicuous      position   on   the  land.
                 Scherne of            31.    The    surveyor     shall,  on  the   date   or  altered   date
                 partition.         fixed   for   partitioning      the   land,    proceed     to  the   land
                                    and    prepare      a   scheme     of    partition     in   conformity
                                    with    the   interlocutory       decree    and    with    any    special
                                    directions     contained     in  his  commission       and   demarcate
                                    the   divided     portions     on   the   land   by   means      of  such
                                    boundary        marks      as    are    not    easily     removed       or
                                    destroyed.       He   shall   inform    the  parties    present    of  the
                                    returnable     date    of  his  commission       fixed  under     section
                                    27.
===== PAGE 23 =====
                           Partition     Act,    No.   16   of  1951.               25
              32.     (1)  The    surveyor     shall   make     his  return    to  the     Return  to
           commission,        verified    by    affidavit,    on   or   before     the     commission.
           returnable      date    or   the   extended      returnable      date   (as
          P the  case   may    be)  fixed   under     section    27  and    together
         a with    such    return    he  shall   transmit      to  the  court
                  (a)  the   plan   of   partition     prepared     by   him;
                 (6)   a  certified   copy    of  his  field  notes   ;
                 (c)   a  report    explaining      the   manner     in  which     the
                           land     has    been     partitioned       stating      the
                           names      of    the   parties,      the   nature      and
                           extent      of    their    respective       shares     and
                           interests,    the   dates    on  which     notices    were
                           issued    to  such    parties    for   the   purpose     of
                           partitioning        the   land     and    the    date    on
                           which      the    land     was     partitioned,       and,
                           where     a lot  is allotted   in  common      to  several
                           parties,     specifying      each    party's    share    of
                           that   lot;   and
                  (d)  a   summary        of   distribution      substantially      in
                           the    prescribed      form.
               (2)  Where     no   provision    is  made    in  the  interlocutory
            decree    for    the   allotment      of   a   lot  in   common,       the
           surveyor      shall  not   allot  a lot  in  common      to any   parties
           without      the  written     consent    of  those   parties.
               33.    The     surveyor       shall    SO   partition      the    land      Manner  of
           that   each    party    entitled   to  compensation        in  respect   of     partition.
            improvements        effected    thereto    or  of   buildings    erected
            thereon    will,   if that   party    is entitled    to a  share   of  the
           soil,   be  allotted,    SO  far  as  is  practicable,     that   portion
           of   the  land    which    has   been  SO  improved      or  built  upon,
           as   the  case   may    be.
               34.    (1)   Where     under    any    scheme    of  partition     pre-    Compensation
            pared    by  a  surveyor,     payment      has   to be  made     to or  by    and  owelty.
           any    party    to  a  partition     action   in  respect    of  compen-
           sation    for   improvements         to the   land   or  of  owelty,    the
            amount      of  such    payment      shall,   in   the  first  instance,
            be   assessed      by   the    surveyor      and    shall    be   finally
            determined       by   the  court.
               (2)   The     amount      determined       by   the   court,    under
            sub-section     (1)  of   this  section   or  under     sub-section     (4)
            of  section     26,   as  compensation        for   improvements        or
           as   owelty    shall,   from    the  date   on  which     final  decree   is
            entered,    be   a  charge    on  the   portion    of  the  land   or  the
            extent    of  land   finally   allotted   to  the  party    made    liable
            for   the   payment      of  such    compensation        or  owelty,    as
            the  case   may    be.
===== PAGE 24 =====
                                     26               Partition      Act,   No.   16   of  1951.
                  Date to be            35.     After    the   surveyor     makes     a  return    to  the  com-
                  fixed for          mission,     the  court    shall  fix  a date   for   the  consideration
                  consideration          the              of
                  of scheme  of      of        scheme         partition     proposed     by  the   surveyor.
                  partition.
                  Final                  36.    On    the   date   fixed   under     section    35,  or  on   anyl
                  decree of          later   date   which     the  court   may    fix  for  the               the
                  partition.                                                                      purpose,
                                     court    may,     after    summary        inquiry,     confirm     with    or
                                     without     modification       the   scheme    of   partition     proposed
                                     by   the    surveyor      and    enter    final   decree    of   partition
                                     accordingly.
                                      Commission        for  Division     of  Land     into  Lots   OT  for  Sale
                  Consideration          37.     (1)  The    person     who    receives     a  commission       to
                  of scheme of        divide    a  land    into   lots  for   the               of  the   sale  of
                  division of                                                      purpose
                  land into lote      the   land   in  lots  shall    make    his   return    to  the   commis-
                                      sion,   verified    by  affidavit,    on  or   before    the   returnable
                                      date   or   the  extended      returnable      date    fixed   under    sec-
                                      tion    27,   and     together      with     such     return     he   shall
                                      transmit     to  the  court
                                            (a)  a  plan   of  the  division    of  the   land   into  lots,  and
                                            (b)  a   report    explaining      the   manner      in  which     the
                                                      land   is  divided     into   lots.
                                         (2)  After     the   person     referred     to  in   sub-section     (1)
                                      of  this   section    makes     a  return    to  the   commission,       the
                                      court    shall    fix  a   date    for   the   consideration        of   the
                                      scheme     of   division    of   the   land    into   lots  proposed      by
                                      such   person.       On   such   date,   or on   any   later  date   which
                                      the  court   may    fix  for  the  purpose,     the   court   shall,  after
                                      summary       inquiry,    confirm     such   scheme    with    or withont
                                      modification.
                  Valuation  of          38.     (1)   Where       in   a   partition      action     the   court
                  land.               orders     the   issue    of      commission        to   any    person     to
                                                                     a
                                      divide     the   land   to   which     the   action    relates    into   lots
                                      for   the  purpose     of  the  sale   of  the   land   in lots  or  to  sell
                                      the   land    otherwise      than    in   lots  or   orders    the   Fiscal
                                      to  sell  the   land,   the   court   shall   fix  a  date   on  or  hefore
                                       which    that   person     or  the    Fiscal,   as   the  case   may    be,
                                      shall   transmit     to  the   court   a  valuation      of  the  land.
                                         (2)   Where      the   commission        is for   the   division     of  a
                                      land    into   lots  for   the   purpose     of  the   sale   of  the   land   -
                                      in   lots,   the   date    fixed   under     sub-section       (1)  of   this
                                      section    shall   he  the   same    as  the   returnable     date   of  the
                                      commission        fixed   under    section    27.
                                          (3)  The    valuation      referred     to  in   sub-section      (1)  of
                                      this   section    shall   show    separately      and   in   detail-          €
                                             (a)  where    the   land   valued     is to  be  sold   in  lots,  thel
                                                       appraised       value    of   each    lot   and    of   any
                                                       improvements         thereon,     and
===== PAGE 25 =====
                               Partition      Act,    No.   16   of   1951.               27
                      (6)  where    the   land   is  to  be  sold   otherwise      than   in
                                lots,  the   appraised       value    of  the   land    and
                               of   any    improvements         thereon.
           A      (4)   After    considering       the   valuation      under    the
                                                                                       pre-
               ceding     provisions     of  this  section   and    after  such   inquiry
               as   the   court   may     consider     necessary,      the   court    shall
               determine       the  value    of  the   land    or,  where    the   land   is
               to  be  sold   in  lots,  the   value   of  each   of   the  lots  and   the
               value    of   the  improvements.
                  39.     (1)  After    determining        the  value   of  the   land   or,    Conditions
               where     the   land   is  to  be  sold   in  lots,  the   value    of  each     of sale,
               of   the   lots,   and    the  value     of  the   improvements,          the    etc.
               court    shall   prescribe      the  conditions      of   sale  and    issue
               such    orders     as  the   court    may    consider      necessary      for
               the    conduct     of   the   sale,    including      orders    as   to  the
               manner      in  which    and    the  number     of   days   before    which
               notice    of   the  sale   or  adjourned       sale  of   the   land   shall
               be   given    and    published     by   the   person     responsible      for
                the  sale.
                   (2)  The   court    may,    on   application      made     in  that   be-
               half    by  a   co-owner     who     desires    to  purchase      the   land
               or   a lot,  specify     the  terms    as  to credit    to  be  allowed    to
                him   at  the  sale,   having     regard    to  the   amounts,     if  any,
                payable    by   him   by  way    of  pro   rata  costs,   compensation
                for     improvements,           owelty,       mortgage         debts      or
               otherwise.
                   40.    The     person    responsible      for   the   sale  shall    give     Notice of sale.
                notice    that   he   will,   on   a  date    to  be   specified     in  the
                notice,    sell   the   land    in   terms    of  the    commission       or
                order    for   sale   issued    to  him    and    in  accordance       with
                the  conditions      prescribed      and   the   orders    issued   by   the
                court    under     section     39.     He    shall,    in    addition      to
                giving    such    notice   in  any   other    manner      which    may     be
                specified    by   the   court,   give    such    notice   by   registered
                letter   sent    through      the   post   to   each    party     declared
                in  the   interlocutory      decree    to  be  entitled    to  any   right,
                share   or   interest    to, of  or   in  the  land.
                   41.     On   the   date   specified    in   the  notice    referred     to    Sale.
                in  section    40,  the   person    responsible      for  the  sale   shall,
                in   terms    of   the   commission       or   order    for   sale   issued
===== PAGE 26 =====
                                    28               Partition     Act,    No.   16  of   1951.
                                    to  him,   and    in  accordance       with    the   conditions     of   sale
                                    prescribed      and    the   orders     issued    by   the   court    under
                                   section     39-
                                          (a)   first  put   up   the   land   or,   where    the   land   is  to
                                                    be  sold        lots,  put         each   lot  to  auction      :
                                                               in                up
                                                    among      the   co-owners       thereof,     and    if   the
                                                    highest    bid   made     at  that  auction     is not   less
                                                    than    the   value    of   the   land    or  of   that   lot
                                                    determined       by   the   court    under    section    38,
                                                    declare    the   co-owner     by   whom     that   bid  was
                                                    made     to be   the   purchaser      of  the   land   or  of
                                                    that   lot;   and
                                          (b)  if  no   co-owner       becomes     the   purchaser       of  the
                                                    land   or  of  any    lot,  put   the  land    or  that   lot
                                                   up   to  public     auction,     permit    the   co-owners
                                                    to  bid     thereat,     and    declare      the   highest
                                                    bidder     at   such    public     auction     to   be   the
                                                    purchaser      of  the   land   or  of  that   lot.
               Return  to             42.     The wensche      responsible      for  the   sale   shall,  after
               court.              complying               the  provisions      of  section    41,   make    his
                                   return    to  the  court,    informing      the   court   of  the   amount
                                   for  which     the  land    or,  where    the   land   was    sold  in  lots,
                                   each    lot  was    sold    and    the   name     and    address     of   the
                                   purchaser       thereof,    and    pay    into   court    the   money     de-
                                   posited    with    him    by  the   purchaser.
               Deposit of             43.     The    purchaser      of   the   land   or,  where     the   land
               purchase            was   sold    in  lots,   the   purchaser      of   each    lot  shall   pay
              money   in           into           the                          by   the   sale   of  the   land
               court.                     court         money      realised
                                  or    of   that    lot   in    conformity        with     the    conditions
                                   prescribed      and    the   orders     issued    by   the   court    under
                                  section     39:
                                      Provided       that,   where     the   purchaser      is  a  co-owner,
                                   he  shall  be  allowed     such    credit   as  may    have   been    deter-
                                   mined    by   the  court    under    sub-section      (2)  of  section    39.
               Disposal of           44.      Any    objection     to  a  sale   held    under    section     41
              objections          shall   be   preferred      to  court    within     a  period     of   thirty
              to aale.            days    reckoned      from    the  date   of  receipt    by   the   court   of
                                  the   return     to  the   commission        for   sale,  and    the    court
                                  shall,     after      inquiry,       make       such     order      as    the
                                  circumstances        of   the   case   may    require.
              Confirmation           45.     The    court    shall    confirm     a  sale   if,  within     the
               of sale.            period    referred     to  in   section    44,   no   objection     is  pre-
===== PAGE 27 =====
                             Partition     Act,    No.    16  of   1951.               29
             ferred    against     the  sale,   or  if  any    objection    duly    pre-
             ferred    under     that   section    is  not   upheld     by   the  court
             after   inquiry:
          e     Provided       that,   where     the    amount      realised    by   the
            sale   of  the   land   or   of  any   lot  under    paragraph       (b)  of
             section   41   is less  than    the  value    of  the  land   or  of  that
             lot determined       the  the  court   under    section   38,   the  court
            may     set  aside          sale   of  the   land    or  of   that   lot  on
            such    terms    and   conditions      as  the  court   may    determine
            and    order    the  issue   of  a  fresh   commission       for   the  sale
            of   the   land   or   of   that   lot  and    make     all  such    orders
            as  the   court   considers     necessary     for   the  conduct     of  the
             sale.
               46.     Upon      the  confirmation       of  the  sale   of  the   land     Certificate
            or  of  any   lot,  the  court   shall  enter   in  the  record    a certi-     of sale.
            ficate   of sale   in  favour    of  the  purchaser     and   the   certifi-
            cate    SO  entered     under     the   hand    of   the   judge    of   the
            court    shall   be   conclusive     evidence     of   the   purchaser's
            title  to  the   land   or  lot as  on   the  date   of  the  certificate.
             The   court    may,    on   the   application      of  the   purchaser,
            attach    to  the   certificate    a  plan   of  the   land   or  lot  pre-
            pared     at  the   cost  of   the   purchaser     and    authenticated
            by   the   court.
               47,     (1)   The   court    shall   cause   to  be   prepared     by   a    Distribution
             party   named      by   the   court   a   schedule    of   distribution        and  with-
            showing      the   amount      which     each    party    is  entitled    to    drawal  of
                                                                                            money  in
            withdraw        out   of   the  money      deposited     in   court.            court.
                (2)  No   money     shall  be  withdrawn        from   court   by   any
            party     until    the    schedule     of    distribution      has     been
            approved      by   the   court.
               (3)   A   party    entitled    to  compensation        in   respect    of
            a   plantation      or  a   building     or   otherwise      shall   share
            proportionately        with    the  other    parties    in  any   gain    or
            loss,   as  the   case   may     be,  resulting      from    the   sale   of
            the   land    at  a  figure    above    or  below    the   value    deter-
            mined     by   the  court   under     section    38.
                       Special     Provisions      relating    to Decrees
               48.     (1)  Save    as  provided     in   sub-section     (3)  of  this     Finality of
            section,    the  interlocutory      decree    entered     under    section      interlocutory
            26   and    the   final   decree     of  partition      entered     under       decree and
                                                                                            final decree
            section    36  shall,   subject   to  the   decision    on   any   appeal       of partition.
===== PAGE 28 =====
                                     30              Partition     Act,   No.   16  of  1951.
                                     which    may    be   preferred     therefrom,     be   good   and   sufti-
                                     cient    evidence      of   the    title   of   any     person     as   to
                                     and   right,    share   or   interest    awarded      therein    to  him
                                            be  final   and   conclusive      for  all  purposes      against
                                     all  persons    whomsover,      whatever     right,   title  or  interest    -
                                     they   have,   or  claim   to  have,   to  or  in  the  land   to  which    u
                                     such    decrees   relate   and   notwithstanding         any   omission
                                     or  defect   of   procedure     or  in the   proof   of  title  adduced
                                     before    the  court   or  the  fact   that   all persons     concerned
                                     are   not  parties    to  the  partition     action;   and   the   right,
                                     share    or  interest   awarded      by  any   such    decree   shall   be
                                     free    from    all   encumbrances         whatsoever       other    than
                                     those    specified   in  that   decree.
                                         In   this   sub-section       cc encumbrance       >>  means      any
                                     mortgage,      lease,   usufruct,    servitude,     fidei  commissum,
                                     life  interest,    trust,   or  any   interest    whatsoever      howso-
                                     ever   arising    except    a  constructive     or  charitable     trust,
                                     a  lease  at. will  or for   a period    not  exceeding     one  month,
                                     and    the  rights   of  a  proprietor     of  a  nindagama.
                                         (2)  The    interlocutory     decree    and   the  final   decree   of
                                     partition     entered    in  a   partition    action    shall   have   the
                                     final  and   conclusive     effect  declared    by  sub-section     (1) of
                                     this   section   notwithstanding         the   provisions     of  section
                  Cap.  11.          44   of  the   Evidence      Ordinance,      and    accordingly      such
                                     provisions     shall   not  apply    to  such   decrees.
                                         (3)  The    interlocutory      decree    or  the   final  decree    of
                                     partition     entered    in  a  partition     action    shall  not   have
                                     the   final  and   conclusive    effect   given   to  it by  section   (1)
                                     of   this  section    as   against    a   person    who,    not   having
                                     been    a party    to  the   partition    action,    claims    any   such
                                     right,   title  or  interest    to or  in  the  land   or  any   portion
                                     of  the  land   to which    the  decree    relates  as  is  not  directly
                                     or   remotely     derived     from    the  decree    if,  but   only    if,
                                     he   proves    that   the  decree    has   been   entered    by  a  court
                                     without      competent      jurisdiction      or  that   the   partition
                                      action     has    not    been     duly     registered      under      the
                  Cap. 101.          Registration       of  Documents       Ordinance      as  a lis pendens
                                     affecting    such    land.
                   Action for            49.    Any    person,     not   being   a  party    to  a  partition
                   damages by         action,   whose     rights    to the   land   to   which    the   action
                   person who         relates   have    been    extinguished            who    is  otherwise
       i*          is not a party                                                  or                               I
                   to partition       prejudiced     by   the   interlocutory      decree   entered     in  the  N
                   action.            action,          by                                                 from      1
                                                may,        separate    action,    recover   damages
===== PAGE 29 =====
                          Partition      Act,   No.    16   of  1951.               31
          any   party    to  the  action    by   whose    act,   whether     of  com-
          mission    or   omission,     such    damages      may    have    accrued,
          and    where     the   whole     or   any    part    of  such    damages
          cannot    be  recovered      from    any   such   party,    recover    such
         * damages    or   part   thereof   from    any   other   person    who   has
        benefted       by   any   such    act  of  such    party.
             50.     (1)  If  in  an    interlocutory      decree    for   partition      Lease  or
          any    undivided        share    of   the    land    constituting        the    mortgage  of
                                                                                          undivided
          subject    matter     of  the    partition     action    in  which     such     share.
          decree   is  entered    is declared     to be  subject    to a  mortgage
          or  lease,  the   rights   of the   mortgagee     or  of  the   purchaser
          of  the   mortgaged       share    under     a  mortgage       decree,    or
          of  the  lessee,   shall
                (a)   where      the    partition      is   otherwise      than     in
                          accordance      with    an   order   made     under    sub-
                          section    (4)  of   section   26,   be  limited    to  the
                          share    allotted    in  such    interlocutory      decree
                          to  the  mortgagor       or  lessor;  and
                (b)   where    the    partition    is  in  accordance       with   an
                          order      made      under       sub-section       (4)    of
                          section    26,   be   limited     to  SO   much     of  the
                          extent    of   land   and    of  any    owelty    or  com-
                          pensation       allotted    in  the   partition     action
                          to  the  mortgagor      or  lessor   as  the  court   shall
                          determine.
             (2)  If   in   an   interlocutory       decree    for  sale   any    un-
          divided      share    of   the    land    constituting       the   subject
          matter    of   the   partition    action    in  which    such    decree   is
          entered    is  declared    to  be  subject   to  a mortgage      or  lease,
          the  rights    of  the   mortgagee      or  of  the   purchaser     of   the
          mortgaged       share    under     a  mortgage       decree,    or  of   the
          lessee,   shall   be   limited    to  the   mortgagor's       or   lessor's
          share   of  the   proceeds     of  the  sale  of  the   land.
             51.     Where      in  a   partition     action    an   interlocutory        Registration  of
          decree    under     section    26  or  a   final  decree    of  partition       interlocutory
                                                                                          decree, final
          under     section   36   or  a  certificate    of  sale   under    section      decree  of
          46   is  entered,     the    court   shall                        of   such     partition, and
                                                        cause    a  copy                  certificate of
          decree    or  certificate    to be   transmitted      to  the  Registrar        sale.
          of  Lands     of   the  district   or   of  each   of  the   districts    in
        - which     the                each    of  the   lands         which     such
                          land    or                              to
       A  docree     or   certificate     relates     is   situated,     and     such
===== PAGE 30 =====
                                       32              Partition      Act,   No.   16  of   1951.
                                       Registrar      shall    duly    register     such    copy     under     the
                    Cap. 101.          Registration       of   Documents        Ordinance       as   an   instru-
                                       ment    affecting    the   land   or  each    of  the   lands   to  which
                                      it  relates.     No   fee  shall   be  charged    for   the  registration
                                       of  such    copy    under    such    Ordinance       notwithstanding,
                                       anything      to the   contrary     in  such    Ordinance      or  in  any:
                                       regulation     made     thereunder.
                    Delivery of           52.     Every    party    to a  partition     action   who    has  been
                    possession of      declared     to  be  entitled              land   by                decree
                    land to parties                                     to any               any    final
                   and  purchasers.    entered     under     this    Act    and    every     person    who     has
                                       purchased      any    land    at  any    sale  held    under     this  Act
                                       and   in  whose     favour     a certificate    of  sale   in  respect   of
                                       the   land   SO   purchased      has   been   entered     by   the  court,
                                       shall   be  entitled    to  obtain    from   the   court,   in  the   same
                                       action,    on   application     made     by  motion     in  that   behalf,
                                       an   order    for  the    delivery    to  him    of  possession     of  the
                                       land:.
                                          Provided       that  where     such   party    is liable   to pay    any
                                       amount      as   owelty     or   as   compensation        for   improve-
                                       ments,     he   shall   not   be   entitled    to  obtain     such   order
                                       until   that   amount     is paid.
                    Power  of court        53.    (1)  A   court    exercising      jurisdiction     in  a  parti--
                    to enforce its     tion   action   shall   have   full   power    to  give   effect  to every
                    decrees and                                                                       (including
                    orders and to      order   or  decree   made     or entered    in  the  action
                    deal with          the   power     to order    delivery     of  possession     of  any   land
                    offences of                                                                                and
                    contempt  of       or  portion     of  land   to  any    person    entitled    thereto)
                    court.             to  punish     as  for   contempt      of  court   any    person    who
                                              (a)   disobeys    any   such   order,   or
                                              (b)   obstructs    or   resists   any    person     acting    under
                                                        the  authority     of  the  court   or  exercising     any
                                                        power     conferred     on   him    by  this   Act,   or
                                              (c)   damages,       destroys     or    removes,      during      the
                                                        pendency      of the   action,   any   boundary      mark
                                                        which,    under     section    31,  has   been   made    or
                                                        set  up    on   the    land    to  which      the   action
                                                        relates.
                                            (2)  Where,     under     sub-section      (1)  of  this   section,    a
                                        person     is convicted      of  obstructing      or  resisting     a  sur-
                                        veyor    engaged,      under     the   authority     of   the   court,    in
                                        doing    any   work    on   a  land,   the  court    may,    in  addition,
                                        to   the  imposition      of   any    punishment       on   that    persor
===== PAGE 31 =====
                             Partition      Act,    No.   16   of  1951.               33
             under     that   sub-section,      order    him    to  Doy    an   amount
             determined       by  the  court   as  the  expenses         the  surveyor
             if in  consequence        of  the  obstruction      or  resistance     it  is
             necessary      for   the   surveyor     to   proceed     again    to   such
             land    for    the    purpose      of    doing     such    work.       Any
             amount     ordered     by   the  court    under    this   sub-section     to
             be  paid   by  any    person   may    be  recovered     as   though    that
             amount      were    a   fine   imposed      on   that    person    by   the
             court.
                                          Special    Cases
                54.    (1)   Every      praveni      nilakaraya       shall,   for   the      Right of
             purposes      of  this   Act,   be   deemed     to  be   a  co-owner      of    praveni
            the                                                                              nilakaraya
                  praveni     panguwa       of  which    he  is  a  shareholder      and      to institute
             shall  be  entitled    to institute    a  partition    action    to obtain      partition action.
             a  decree    for  the   partition     or  sale   of  that   panguwa       or
             of  any   of  the   lands    in  that   panguwa.
                (2)   The    rights    of   the   proprietor      of   a  nindagama
             shall   in  no   way     be   affected    by   the   partition     or   sale
             under    this   Act   of  a  panguwa      or  of  any   of  the   lands   in
             a  panguwa,        and    that   proprietor      shall   be   entitled    to
             exercise    those    rights    as  though     that   partition     or   sale
             had   not  occurred.
        .       (3)   In    this     section,     the     expression        cc praveni
             nilakaraya      >)   and     cc praveni      panguwa       >>   have     the
             meanings       respectively      assigned      to  them     in  section     2
             of  the  Service     Tenures     Ordinance.                                     Cap.  323.
                55.     (1)  Where      a  person     having     the   ownership       of    Person  own-
             a  permanent        plantation,      apart    from     the   soil,  on   the    ing a per-
                                                                                             manent
             land    to  which    a  partition     action    relates    is a   party   to    plantation on a
             the  action,    he   shall  be  entitled    only   to  receive                  land apart  from
                                                                               compen-       tho  soil.
             sation    in  respect    of  that    plantation.
                (2)   The     ownership        of   a    permanent        plantation,
             apart    from    the   soil,  on   a  land   may,    for   the   purposes
             of   sub-section      (1)  of   this   section,     be   established      by
             proof    of  any   agreement       with   the   owner    of  the   land   or
             of  any   custom      recognised     in  the   locality    in  which     the
             land   is  situated,    notwithstanding         the   provisions     of  the
             Prevention       of  Frauds     Ordinance.                                       Cap. 57.
                56.     (I)  A   co-owner     shall   not  be  entitled    to institute       Partition of
             a  partition     action    in  respect    of   a  land   if  there   exists      land belonging
        -        valid    deed    of    partnership       which      binds    such            to partnersbips.
             a                                                                        CO-
        >    owner    to  cultivate    that   land  or  to  raise  crops   or   produce
                 3-  -J. N. 22251 (8/60)
===== PAGE 32 =====
                                   34               Partition     Act,    No.   16  of  1951.
                                   thereon     for the   purpose    of  selling   such   crops   or  produce
                                   or  which     is for   the  purpose     of  carrying      on  any   trade,
                                   manufacture         or  occupation       relating     to  or   connected
                                   with    the   joint   ownership      of   that   land,   and    if  any   of
                                   the   terms,     conditions      or   covenants      of   that    deed    of
                                   partnership       will   be  avoided,     infringed      or  violated     by
                                   a  partition    or  sale  of  the   land.
                                      (2)   The    provisions     of  sub-section      (1)  of  this  section
                                   shall    not   apply     in   any   case    in   which     the   right    to
                                   institute    a  partition    action    has   been   expressly     reserved
                                   in   the   deed    of   partnership       referred     to  in   that   sub-
                                   section.
                Executors and          57.    No   person    acting    in the   capacity    of  an  executor
                administrators.    or   administrator        shall   institute    a  partition     action    in
                                   respect    of  any   land    belonging     to  the  estate   which    he  is
                                   administering.
                                                                     Costs
                Recoverable            58.    (1)  In  any    partition    action,    the  following     costs
                costs.             shall,   unless    the   court    otherwise     directs,    be   borne neby
                                   the   parties     to  the   action     in  the   proportion       of
                                   respective      rights     to   the   land     to  which      the   action
                                   relates   :
                                          (a)  the   costs   of  the   execution      of  the   commission         a:
                                                   for   the  preliminary       survey    and   the   costs  of
                                                    the   execution      of   the   commission        for   the
                                                    partition    or  sale  of  the  land   or  for  the   divi-
                                                   sion   of   the   land   into   lots   for  the   purpose
                                                   of  the  sale  of  the  land   in  lots,  determined      as
                                                    hereinbefore      provided;
                                          (6)  the   costs   of  the   execution     of   any   commission
                                                    issued   to  the   Surveyor-General          under    sub-
                                                   section     (3)  of  section     18;
                                          (c)  other   costs   of  instituting      and   prosecuting       the
                                                   action.
                                       The   costs   referred     to  in  paragraph       (c)  of   this  sub-
                                    section   shall   be  determined,       in  the   case  of   a partition
                                   action    in  a District    Court,    in  accordance      with   the  rates
                                    set  out   in  the   Fourth      Schedule     to   this   Act,   and,    in
                                   the   case  of   a partition     action    in  a  Court    of   Requests,
                                   by   that  Court    in  its  discretion.
                                       (2)  The    costs   referred     to  in  sub-section      (1)  of   this
                                   section     shall   be   known      as  the    c6 recoverable      costs   >)
                                   and    the   proportionate        share     thereof    to   be   borne    by    }
                                   each    of  the   parties    shall   be   known     as  the   cc pro   rata
===== PAGE 33 =====
                           Partition      Act,    No.   16   of   1951.               35
           costs   >> of   that   party    and    shall   be   recoverable      in  the
           same     action    from     that    party    by   the   party     who    has
        f  incurred      the   recoverable       costs.
        I             The           in                  action    which        proctor      Costs recoverable
        A     59.           costs       a  partition                        a               bis proctor from
           may    recover     from     his   client   shall,    in   the   case   of   a         client.
           partition     action    in   a  District     Court,    be  taxed     at  the
           rates   set  out   in  the  Fifth    Schedule     to  this   Act   and,    in
           the  case   of  a  partition     action    in   a Court     of  Requests,
           be  determined      by   that   Court    in  its discretion.
              60.     In  the   event   of  a  contest,   the   court,   after   hear-      Costs of
           ing   the   parties    concerned,      shall   fix  the   amount     of  the     contest.
           costs    of   the   contest    having      regard     to   the   value    of
           the   share    or  interest    in  dispute,     and    direct    by  whom
           such    costs  shall   be   paid.
              61.     Where      a   party    omits    to   prove    his   title,   the     Costs of proving
           court           permit            of   the   other    parties    to              title of
                    may                one                                      prove       defaulting
           the  title  of  the   party   in  default.       The   amount      allowed       party.
           by   the   court    as  the   costs   of   proving     such    title   shall
           be  specified     in  an  order    and    shall  be   recoverable      from
           the   party   in   default.
              62.     When      parties    are   jointly    interested     in  a  con-      One  set of
           test,   the  court    shall   ordinarily      allow    only          set  of     costs for
                                                                          one               parties
       -   costs   for   all   such    parties    and    may    in   its  discretion        jointly:
           apportion      such    costs  among      such    parties;    and,    in  the     interested.
           event   of  an   appeal     by  or  against    them    to  the   Supreme
           Court,     only    one    amount      shall    be   fixed    by   way     of
           security    for   costs  of   appeal.
              63.     (1)  It   shall    be   lawful    for    the   court    at   any      Security for
           stage   of  a   partition     action   to  order    any   party    to  give      costs of
           security    for   costs   if  the            is  of  opinion     that    the     parties.
                                               court
           party    has    been   guilty    of   unreasonable        delay    in  pre-
           senting     or   prosecuting      his    claim,    or  for    other   good
           and   sufficient    cause.
              (2)   Where     any    party    to   a  partition     action    who     is
           ordered     under     sub-section      (1)  of   this   section    to  give
           security    for  costs   fails  to Sixc    such   security    within     the
           time   allowed     therefor    by        court,   then-
                 (a)   where     that   parthe    is  the    plaintifi,    the   court
                           may    dismiss          action    or' may     permit    any
                           defendant      to  prosecute     the   action    and   may
                           substitute      him    as   plaintift    for   that    pur-
                           pose,   or
                 (b)   where     that   rarts     is  a   defendant,       the   court
                           may    reject         claim.
                4--J.  N. 22251 (S/50)
===== PAGE 34 =====
                                    36               Partition      Act,   No.   16  of   1951.
                                        (3)  Where      the   trial   of   a  partition      action    is  post-
                                    poned     or   adjourned       in  consequence       of   such    delay   on
                                    the   part    of  a  party    to  the   action    as  is  referred     to  in
                                    sub-section       (1)  of   this   section,    the                    order     :
                                                                                          court    may
                                    that    any   costs    payable     by   that    party    because     of  the   -
                                     postponement        or  adjournment         shall   be  pre-paid.
                 Costs under            64.    All    costs   due    from    any    party    to   a  partition
                 sections 58         action    under     sections     58   and    61    shall   be   a   charge
                 and  61 to be a    on   the   share    of  land    or  money      allotted    to  that   party
                 charge on the                               and     such     charge      shall
                 share of party     in    that    action                                           rank    next
                 from whom   they    in  priority    to  the  charge     referred     to  in  sub-section     (2)
                 are due.           of   section    34.
                 Costs in cases         65.     Costs    shall   ordinarily      be  borne    by   the   person
                 not expressly       who    incurs    the   costs    except    in  cases    where     it  is ex-
                 provided for.       pressly    provided     by   this  Act    that  aybe   costs
                                                                                                   or  propor-
                                     tion  of  costs    shall  be   borne,    or  may        ordered     by  the
                                     court   to  be  borne,    by  some   other    person.
                 Default in             66.     Where      the  court    is  satisfied    that   the   plaintiff
                 paying  costs       in  any    action    under     this  Act    has   not   paid    any   costs
                 and charges         or   charges      due    from     him     in   any.    previous      action
                 in previous                              him              this   Act                    of   the
                 action  under       instituted      by          under                   in   respect
                 this Act.           same    land,    the  court    may
                                            (a)  fix  a   date   for   the   payment       of  such    costs   or
                                                     charges      and    stay    proceedings       until    such
                                                     payment       is made;     and
                                            (b)  where     such   payment      is  not   made    on   or  before
                                                     that   date,   dismiss     the  action.
                                                                  Miscelluneons
                  Sale, lease or        67.     (1)  After    a  partition     action    is  duly    registered
                 mortgage            as  a  lis  pendens     under    the   Registration       of  Documents
                 pendente  lite      Ordinance            voluntary      alienation,      lease       hypothe-
                  is void.                           no                                           or
                 Cap.  101.          cation    of  any    undivided      share    or  interest    of  or  in  the
                                      land    to  which     the    action     relates    shall    be  made     or
                                     effected    until   the   final   determination        of  the   action   by
                                      dismissal     thereof,    or by   the  entry    of  a  decree   of   parti-
                                      tion  or   by  the   entry        a  certificate    of  sale.
                                         (2)    Any    voluntary       alienation,     lease   or   hypotheca-
                                      tion  made    or  effected   in  contravention       of  the   provisions
                                      of  sub-section     (1)  of  this  section    shall   be void.
                  Appeals.               68.    An     appeal     shall    lie   to   the    Supreme       Court
                                      against     any   order    or   decree    made     or  entered     by  any
                                      court    in  any   partition      action;    and   all   the   provisions
                  Cap.  86.           of  the   Civil    Procedure       Code    shall   apply     accordingly
                                      to  any   such   appeal     as  though    an   order    or' decree    made    d
                                      or  entered    in  a partition     action    were   an  order   or  decree
                                      made     or   entered      in  any     action    as    defined    for    the'
                                      purposes      of  that    Code.
===== PAGE 35 =====
                          Partition      Act,   No.    16   of  1951.                37
             69.     It   shall   not   be   necessary      in  any    proceedings          Proof of decds.
          under     this   Act   to  adduce      formal    proof    of   the   execu-
          tion   of  any   deed    which,         the  face   of   it,  purports     to
          have    been                       on
                         duly   executed,    unless    the  genuineness       of  that
         deed     is  impeached       by       party    claiming      adversely      to
          the                              a
                party     producing       that    deed,    or   unless     the  court
          requires     such    proof.
             70.     (1)  The    Court     may    at   any   time    before    inter-      Addition of
          locutory    decree    is  entered    in  a  partition     action    add   as     parties.
          a  party     to  the   action,    on   such    terms    as   to  payment
          or  prepayment        of costs   as  the   court   may    order,  -
                 (a)  any   person     who,    in  the  opinion      of  the   court,
                          should     be,   or  should     have     been,    made     a
                          party    to  the   action,   or
                (6)   any    person    who,    claiming      an   interest    in   the
                          land,   applies    to  be  added     as  a  party    to  the
                        I action.
             (2)    Where     a  person    is a  party    to a  partition     action
         and    his   right,    title  and    interest    to or   in  the   land    to
         which     the  partition     action    relates                                 -
                       of                                 are   sold,   during    the
         pendency           the   partition     action,    in  execution      of,  or
         under,     any   decree,    order    or  process     of  any   court,    the
        purchaser       of   such   right,   title   and   interest    at  the   sale
      1 shall    be   entitled    to  be   substituted      for  that
                                                                         person    as
         a  party     to  the   partition     action,    and    such    purchaser,
         when    SO  substituted,      shall  be   bound    by. the   proceedings
         in    the    partition      action     up     to   the    time     of    the
        substitution.
            71.     No     partition     action     shall    abate     by                 Result
         of   the                                                            reason              of
                    non-prosecution          thereof,     but,   if   a   partition      non-prosecution
         action   is  not  prosecuted      with   reasonable      diligence    after      of partition
         the            has                                                              action.
               court           endeavoured        to  compel     the    parties    to
         bring    the   action    to a  termination,       the   court    may    dis-
        miss     the   action  :   Provided,       however,      that    in  a  case
         where      a  plaintiff     fails   or    neglects     to   prosecute      a
         partition     action,    the  court   may,     by  order,    permit     any
         defendant      to   prosecute    that   action    and   may    substitute
        him     as  plaintiff    for   the   purpose     and    may    make     such
        order    as  to  costs   as  the   court   may    deem    fit.
            72.     (1)   Every     party    to   a   partition      action    who,      Penalty
        knowing        that    any    person     has    any     interest     in   the    for dishonest
        land    to  which    such    action   relates,    fraudulently       or  dis-    non-disclosure
       honestly       fails  or  omits   to  disclose    in  the   pleading     filed    of  iuterested
       A by  him    the   fact   that   such                                             persons.
                                               person     has  such    interest    or
        that    such    person    is  a  necessary     party    to  such     action,
===== PAGE 36 =====
                                     38               Partition      Act,    No.   16   of  1951.
                                     shall    be  guilty    of   an   offence   and     shall,   on   conviction
                                     after    summary       trial  before    a  Magistrate,       be  liable   to a
                                     fine  not   exceeding      one   thousand      rupees,    or  to  imprison-,
                                     ment    of   either    description      for   a  period     not  exceeding
                                     one   year,    or  to  both    such   fine   and    imprisonment.
                                         (2)  No    prosecution       for  an   offence    under     sub-section
                                     (1).of     this   section     shall   be   entertained        without      the
                                     sanction     of   the  Attorney-General.
                                        (3)   A   person     guilty    of  an   offence    under     sub-section
                                     (1)  of  this  section   shail   also,   by  reason    of his   fraudulent
                                     or  dishonest      failure   or  omission      mentioned      in  that   sub-
                                     section,    be   guilty    of  a  contempt      of  the   court   in   which
                                     the   partition     action    referred     to  in  that   sub-section     has
                                     been   instituted     and   may     be  punished     for   such   contempt
                                     in  accordance       with    the  provisions      of   Chapter     LXV      of
                 Cap. 86.            the   Civil   Procedure       Code.
                 Penalty for            73.     (1)   Whoever,       being    a   person    to   whom     a  com-
                 false return,       mission     for   the               partition          sale  of          land
                 &c., by                                     survey,                   or              any
                 surveror.           has   been    issued,   makes     any    statement      which     he  knows
                                     or  has    reasonable       cause    to  believe     to  be   false   in  the
                                     return     made     by   him     to  such    commission,         or  inserts
                                     in  the  survey   pian     or  in  the   plan   of  partition     prepared
                                     by  him    or  in        field  notes   any    signs,   marks     or   parti-
                                     culars     which     he    knows     or    has    reasonable      cause     to
                                     believe    to   be   false   shall    be  guilty     of  an   offence    and
                                     shall,     on    conviction        after     summary         trial    before
                                     a   Magistrate,       be   liable    to   a  fine   not   exceeding       one
                                     thousand      rupees,    or  to  imprisonment         of  either    descrip-
                                     tion   for   a   period     not   exceeding       one   year    or   to  both
                                     such    fine  and    imprisonment.
                                        (2)   A   person    guilty    of   an   offence   under      sub-section
                                     (1)  of   this   section     shall   also,    by   reason    of   his   false
                                     return,     survey     plan,  plan    of   partition,     or   field   notes,
                                     be  guilty    of  a  contempt       of  the   court    which    issued    the
                                     commission        referred     to   in   that   sub-section       and    may
                                     be  punished      for   such   contempt       in  accordance      with    the
                 Cap. 86.            provisions      of   Chapter      LXV       of   the   Civil    Procedure
                                     Code.
                 List of                74.     Every    court    having     jurisdiction      to  try   a parti-
                 surveyors.          tion    action    shall    from     time    to   time    prepare      a   list
                                     of  surveyors     to  whom     commissions        may    be  issued   under
                                     this   Act.
                 Exemption              75.     (1)  All    pleadings      and    processes     and    all  docu-
                 from  stamp                  filed                                                  under    this
                 duty.              ments            or  produced     in  a  partition     action                   4
                                     Act   shall   be  exempt     from    stamp     duty.                         :
                                        (2)  All    partition     deeds    shall   be  exempt      from    stamp
                                    duty.
===== PAGE 37 =====
                          Partition      Act,    No.    16   of   1951.                39
             (3)   Nothing      herein     contained       shall    affect   the    pro-
          viso   to   paragraph        (b)   of   the   Exemptions         under     the
          heading      6  F.   Miscellaneous        >) in   Part    II  of   Schedule
          A  to  the   Stamp     Ordinance.                                                  Cap. 189.
             76.     (1)   The     dismissal      of    a   partition      action     in     Dismissal  of
        - respect    of   any   land    under     section    10,   section    12,   sec-     partition action.
          tion   29,  section     63,  section     66   or   section    71   shall   not
          operate    as  a  bar   to  the   institution     of  another     partition
         action     in  respect     of  that    land.
             (2)   The    dismissal      of   a  partition      action    under     sec-
          tion   29,  section     63,  section     66   or   section    71   shall   not
          affect  the   final  and    conclusive     effect   given   by   section    48
          to the   interlocutory       decree    entered     in  such    action.
             77.     The     provisions      of   the   Civil    Procedure        Code       Service    Cap. 86.
          relating    to  the   execution      or  service    of  writs,    warrants        of process.
          and   other    processes     of   court   shall   apply    in   relation    to
         the   execution      or   service    of  writs,    warrants       and   other
          processes    of  court    in  a partition     action.
             78.     The    Fiscal     may    either     generally     or    specially       Delegation of
         authorise      any   officer   to  exercise    or   perform      any   power       powers  and
              duty    conferred            imposed           the    Fiscal    by   this     duties of Fiscal
         or                           or                on                                  under  this
         Act.                                                                               Act.
            79.      In   any    matter     or   question      of   procedure       not     Casus  omissus
         provided      for   in   this   Act,   the   procedure       laid   down     in    to be governed
         the   Civil    Procedure       Code    in     like                  question       by  Civil
                                                    a         matter     or                 Procedure  Cap. 86.
         shall   be  followed      by  the   court,   if  such   procedure      is  not      Code.
         inconsistent       with    the   provisions     of  this   Act.
            80.      Where     no   form    to  be  used    for   the   purposes     of     Forms.
         this   Act    has    been    prescribed       in  any    particular       case
         or   for   any     particular       purpose,      such    form      shall    be
         used    as  the   court   may     approve     for   use   in  that   case   or
         for   that    purpose.
            81.     (1)   The    Minister      may,     by   regulation,       amend        Regulations.
         in  any    manner      he   may     consider     necessary,      or   substi-      Power  to amend
         tute             Schedule      for,         of   the   Schedules          this     or replace
                a  new                         any                             to           Schedule.
         Act    and    prescribe     all  matters      required      or  authorised
         by  this   Act    to be   prescribed.
            (2)   No   regulation       made     by   the   Minister     shall    have
         effect  until   it  is approved       by  the   Senate    and    the  House
        of   Representatives          and    notification      of  such     approval
        is   published      in  the   Gazette.
            82.     Where      a   party     to  a   partition      action    or   any      Representation
        other     person     entitled,      or   claiming      or   alleged     to   be     of estate of
                                right,   share,                                             deceased party
        entitled,     to any                      or  interest    to,  of,or    in  the     or co-owner.
      1  land,   dies   after   the  institution     of   that   action,   the   court
      4 may,     on   the   ex   parte    application       of  any    other    party
        appoint      a person     to  represent     the  estate   of  the   deceased
===== PAGE 38 =====
                                      40               Partition     Act,    No.   16  of  1951.
                                      for  the   purposes     of  the   action    if the   court   is  satisfied,
                                      after   such    inquiry     as   the   court    deems     fit,  that   such
                                      appointment        is necessary      or  desirable     for  the   purpose
                                     of  enabling      the  court   to  proceed     with   the  action    with   a
                                      view    to   its   speedy      determination;         and           decree,   i
                                                                                                   any
                                      entered,    order   made,     partition    or  sale  eftected,   or  thing
                                      done   in   the  action    shall,   if the   person    SO   appointed     is
                                      a  party    to  the  action,    be  for  all  purposes     as  valid    and
                                      effectual    as   if  the   executor      or   administrator        of   the
                                      deceased     or   the  person     lawfully     entitled    to  the   right,
                                      share    or  interest    of   the  deceased      were   a   party    to  the
                                      action.
                  Interpretation.        83.     (1)  In   this   Act,    unless    the   context     otherwise
                                      requires
                                            c6  boundary       marks    >>  means      the   marks     made     or
                                                      set  up   on   a  land,   at  the   time   of  the   parti-
                                                      tion   thereof,     for   the   purpose      of   defining
                                                      the   boundaries      of  the  divided     portions    into
                                                      which      the   land     is   partitioned,       whether
                                                      such    marks     consist     of   trenches     or   fences
                                                      along     the   boundaries      or   of   posts   of  hard
                                                      wood     or  other    material     erected    at  suitable
                                                      points    on   the   boundaries;
                                             cc constructive      or  charitable      trust   >> has   the  same
                    Cap. 72.                          meaning      as  in  the   Trusts     Ordinance;
                                             cc land   >>  when     used   with    reference    to  a  partition
                                                       action, ,          the   land  or  lands   constituting
                                                                 means
                                                      the   subject    matter     of  that   action;
                                             cc partition      action   >>  means     an   action     instituted
                                                      under     this  Act    for  the   partition     or  sale  of
                                                      any    land   or   lands   belonging      in  common      to
                                                      two   or   more    owners;
                                             66 prescribed      9) means     prescribed      by  or  under    this
                                                      Act;
                                             cc surveyor     >>  means      a  surveyor      whose     name      is
                                                      included      in   a  list  prepared      under     section
                                                       74  and   for   the  time   being    in   force.
                                          (2)  For   the   purposes    of  sections    39,   41  and   43,  c6 CO-
                                      owner     9) means     a  party     to  whom     a  share    of  the   land
                                      has    been     allotted     in   the    interlocutory       decree     and
                                       includes    a person    who    has   been   declared    by   such   decree
                                      to    be   entitled     to   any     right     to   compensation         for
                                       improvements.
                  Repeal.                84.     The    Partition     Ordinance       is  hereby    repealed.
                   Cap.  56.
                                                                             the   Registration       of   Docu.
                  Amendment  of          85.     (1)   Section     12   of
                  other written law.            Ordinance       is  hereby    repealed.
                  Cap.101.            ments
===== PAGE 39 =====
                             Partition     Act,    No.    16  of   1951.               41
                (2)  Part    II   of  Schedule     A   to  the   Stamp      Ordinance         Cap. 189.
             is hereby     amended,       in   paragraph       (b)  of   the   Exemp-
             tions    under     the    heading       c F.    Miscellaneous        3)   as
                                                                                    >
             follows:
                   (a)   by   the   substitution,       for   the   words     cs plead-
        x                    ings   and    other    documents      >>   of  the   words
                             c6 pleadings,                      and  , documents       >)
                                                 processes                               ;
                                and
                    (U)  by  the   substitution,      for   the  words     "Partition
                             Ordinance       >>  wherever      they    occur    in  that
                             paragraph,         of     the    words       c6 Partition
                             Act    >
                                        FIRST    SCHEDULE
                                        (Sections   8  and  9)
                Costs  of Preliminary   Survey   in  the District  Court  of Colombo
               1.  Preliminary    Survey-
                   (a)  one acre  or less               Rs.  20
                   (6)  over  1 acre  and   up  to 10
                         acres                          Rs.  20  for the  first acre  plus
                                                           Rs.  6  for  each   additional
                                                           acre  or part thereof
                   (c)  over  10  acres  and   up  to
                         25  acres                      Rs.  74  for  the  first 10  acres
                                                           plus  Rs.  5  for  each   addi-
                                                           tional  acre  or part   thereof
                    (d) over  25 acres                  Rs.  149  for  the first 25  actes
                                                           plus  Rs.  4  for every   addi-
                                                           tional  acre  or part  thereof
               2.   Travelling  to the  land-
                    (a) for  each   of   the  first  5
                           return  miles                 Rs. 2
                    (b) for  each   of   the  second
                           5 return  miles               Re. 1:50
                    (c) for   every    return    mile
                           thereafter                    Re. 1
               3.   Cost  of notices  to  the parties
                           (other  than   notices   of
                           alteration of date  to suit
                           the  convenience    of the
                           surveyor)    inclusive   of
                           cost  of  registration   of
                           letter                        70 cents  per notice
===== PAGE 40 =====
                                  42               Paruicon       A Ct,  iVO.   10  OJ  1951.
                                   4.   Tom-tom     beater's   wages    in-
                                           clusive  of travelling            Rs.  5
                                   5.   Wages   of 3  labourers               Rs. 2.50   per labourer  per  day
                                   6.   Fee  for making   plan and  report
                                           including    copy    of   field
                                           notes-                                                                  I
                                        10 acres  and  under                  Rs.  15
                                        over   10  acres   but  not  over
                                           25 acres                           Rs. 20
                                        over  25  acres                      Rs.  25
                                   7.   For  surveying   and  showing   on
                                           plan  buildings,  wells, etc.      Re.  1 for cach  thing  surveyed
                                                                                and  shown
                                   8.   For   marking     boundary    trees
                                           or other  boundary    marks        10   cents    for   each    thing
                                                                         - -     marked
                                   9.   For  surveying   and   showing   on
                                           plan  fences,  walls,   ditches,
                                           etc.                               40  cents per  chain
                                  10.   For  surveying   and   showing   on
                                           plan  roads,  paths,   streams,
                                           etc.                               80  cents per  chain
                                  11.   For   taking  copies   of tracings
                                           or plans  from  court  records     Rs.  4 per  acre  up  to  a  limit
                                                                                of  Rs. 15
                                                                                                                    6
                                  12.   Enlarging    plan  or reducing   to
                                           scale                              per   acre  80   cents   with    a
                                                                                minimum     of Rs.  4
                                  13.   Batta     for   nights   out    for
                                           surveyor                           Rs.  10 per  night
                                  14.   Bata    for   nights  out    for  3
                                           labourers                          Re.  1 per  labourer   per  night   -
                                  15.   Counting   trees                      2 cents  per tree
                                  16.   Surveyor    attending    court   to
                                          give    evidence    relating   to
                                           his work                           Rs. 15  por day
                                                      -
                                  17.   Assessing     value     of   land,
                                           buildings,     walls,     trees,
                                          fences,    wells,   plantations
                                          and   other  improvements           An   amount    to  be   fixed  by
                                                                         :      court   not  exceeding    1  per
                                                                                cent.  of the  total valuation
                                  18.   Examination      of  the   survey
                                          plan   of  towns    within   the
                                          registration   areas  of  Wella-
                                          watte,      Kirillapone      and
                                          Dehiwela                            Rs.  12
===== PAGE 41 =====
                           Partition     Act,    No.   16  of   1951.              43
                   Costs  of Preliminary   Survoy  in  Courts  other than  the
                                 District Court   of  Colombo.
             1.   Preliminary  survey-
                  (a) one  acre or less              Rs.  15
                  (6) over  1 acre  and. up  to  10
                         acres                        Rs. 15  for the  first acre plus
                                                        Rs.  4  for  each  additional
                                                        acre or part  thereof
                  (c) over   10 acres  and  up   to
                         25 acres                     Rs. 51  for the  first 10 acres
                                                        plus   Rs.  2.50    for  each
                                                        additional   acre   or   part
                                                        thereof.
                  (d) over  25 acres                  Rs. 88.50  for the first 25 acres
                                                        plus Rs.  2  for every  addi-
                                                        tional acre or part  thereof
             2.   Travelling  to the land-
                  (a) for   each    of  the    first
                         5 return  miles             Rs.  2
                  (b) for  each   of  the   second
                         5 return  miles             Re.  1.50
                  (c) for   every    return   mile
                         thereafter                  Re.  1
       *     3.   Cost  of notices  to the  parties
                     (other than  notices of alter-
                     ation  of date   to  suit the
                    converience     of   surveyor)
                     inclusive of  cost  of  regis-
                     tration of letter               50 cents  per notice
              4.  Tom-tom     beater's  wages   in-
                     clusive of travelling           Rs.  5
              5.  Wages   of 3 labourers             Rs.   2.50  per   labourer   per
                                                        day
             6.   Fee   for   making    plan   and
                     report including copy  of field
                    notcs  irrespective  of extent
                     surveyed                        Rs.  5
              7.  For   surveying   and   showing
                     on   plan   buildings,   wells,  50   cents   for   each  thing
                     etc.                               surveyed  and   shown
              8.  For   marking   boundary    treos
                     or other boundary   marks   . .  10   cents   for  oaoh   thing
                                                        marked
              9.  For   surveying   and   showing
                    on    plan    foncos,    walls,
                     ditchos, otc.                   40  cents per chain
===== PAGE 42 =====
                                 44               Partition      Act,   No.    16  of  1951.
                                 10.   For   surveying    and    showing
                                         on     plan    road-,     paths,
                                          streams,  etc.                     80 cents  per  chain
                                 11.   For   taking  copies  of  tracings
                                          or plans  from  court  records     Rs.  4 per  acre  up  to  a  limit
                                                                               of Rs.  15
                                 12.   Enlarging    plan  or reduoing   to
                                          scale                              80   cents   per  acre    with  a
                                                                               minimum     of Rs.  4
                                 13.   Batta   for  nights  out  for  sur-
                                          veyor                              Rs.  7.50  per night
                                 14.   Batta    for  nights   out   foi  3
                                          labourers   -                      Re.  1 per labourer   per night
                                  15.  Counting    trees                     2 cents per  tree
                                  16.  Surveyor    attending    court   to
                                          give  eviderce  relating  to his
                                          work                               Rs.  10 per  day
                                  17.  Assessing      value    of    land,
                                          buildings,     walls,     trees,
                                          fences,   wells,   plantations
                                          and  other  improvements           An   amount    to   be  fixed  by
                                                                                oourt  not  exceeding    1 per
                                                                                cent. of the  total valuation
                                                           SECOND      SCHEDULE
                                                                 (Section   12)
                                                             Form    of  Summons
                                                             In the  District Court
                                                                                          of
                                                              Court   of Requests
                                 Action   No.
                                         A.   B.                                                      Plaintiff
                                                                      Vs.
                                      C.D.
                                      and   others                                                Defendants
                                    Whereas   the above-named     plaintiff has  instituted  an  action under
                                 the  Partition   Act,  No..      ...of 1951, for the  partition/sale   of the
                                 land/lands   called.
                                                   .situated  at.                                          .and
                                 described  in the  copy/translation    of the  plaint  annexed   hereto,  you
                                are  hereby  summoned      to appear   in this court  either  in person  or by
                                 proctor  on  the..                      .day   of..                             -
                                 19...          at..            .o'clock  of  the  forenoon    and   to  stato    1
                                 whether  you   dispute  tho accuracy   of the  sharo/sharos   allotted in tho
===== PAGE 43 =====
                               Partition     Act,     No.   16   of   1951.               45.
              plaint  to you   or to any   other  party  and   whether   you  are  aware   of
              any   other  person   having  a  right, share   or interest  to, of or  in the
              said  land/lands.
                                                                   By  order  of Court,
                                                           Signed.
                                                                   Secretary/Chief    Clerk..
                 The.                   .day  of                19.
                                            Form    of  Notice
                                         In  the District Court
                                                                  of
                                           Court  of  Requests
               Action  No.
              A.  B..                                                             Plaintiff
                                                    Vs.
              C.D.
                 and  others                                                   Defendants.
                 It is hereby   notified  that   Action  No.                      has  been
                                   District   Court
               instituted in the                       of
                                 Court   of Requests
               under   the   Partition  Act,   No.                        of  1951,  for the
               partition/sale  of  the  land/lands   called
              and   situated  in  the  village/villages of.                               .in
              the.                                                  District.
                 The  defendants    in the  aforesaid  action  are  summoned     to appear
              in  court  on the                        day  of                     19
              at.               .o'clock  of  the   forenoon.
                                                                By   order   of Court,
                                                           Signed.
                                                              Secretary/Chief   Clerk.
                 The..                  day   of.         19..  .
                                     ForM   OF  PRECEPT    TO  FISCAL
                                         In  the  District Court
                                                                   of.
                                           Court   of Requests
               Action  No..       instituted  under   the Partition  Aot,  No.. ....of 1951.
                 To   the  Fiscal  of  the..                     Province.
                 Sorve   forthwith  each  summons     sent herewith   on the  defendant   in
               tho  above-montioned     action   to whom    it is  directed  together  with
               such  of  the documents     sent  herowith  as are  required  by  the  afore-
               said Act  to  bo attached   to that  summons,    and   certify to this  court
               on or bofore  tho.               day  of.                         .19..
               in what   mannor   you   have  executed   this  precopt.
                                                                 By  order  of Court,
                                                        Signed.
                                                                    Secrotary/Chiof    Clerk.
                 Tho                         day   of.            .19..
===== PAGE 44 =====
                           46               Partition     Act,    NO.   16  of  1951.
                                                     THIRD      SCHEDULE
                                                          (Section  29)
                                Costs  of Commission    for  Partition  in the  District  Court  of
                                                             Colombo
                            1.   Survey   for  partitioning   land,
                                   trd  of  the  fee provided   for
                                   the     pre'iminary      survey
                                   under    item  1  in  the  First
                                   Schedule   for  the purpose   of
                                   a  re-survey   for partitioning
                                   the  land where   in the opinion
                                   of  the  court  a  re-survey   is
                                   necessary
                            2.   For  partitioning   the land  into
                                   allotments    at  the   rate  of
                                   Rs.  6 per lot.up to 10lots and
                                   at  the  rate of  Rs. 4  per  lot
                                   for  each  lot in excess   of 10
                                   lots
                            3.   For  making    plan,  report  and
                                   schedule    of  adjustment    of
                                   compensation-
                                 (a) 25 acres  and   under            Rs.  20
                                 (b) over  25 acres  up to and   in-
                                        cluding  50  acres            Rs.  25
                                 (c) over 50  acres                   Rs.  30
                            4.   Assessing    the  value   of   the
                                   various  lots, buildings,  walls,
                                   trees,  fences,  wells, planta-
                                   tions   and   other   improve-
                                   ments    for  the   purpose   of
                                   awarding     compensation     or
                                   owelty                             An   amount    to   be  fixed   by
                                                                         court   not   exceeding     1%
                                                                         of the valuation
                            5.   Cost  of notices  to  the  parties
                                   (other  than  notices of altera-
                                   tion  of date  to suit the  con-
                                   venience   of surveyor)   inclu-
                                   sive  of registration  of letter   70  cents   per  notice
                            6.   Wages   of  tom-tom    beater  in-
                                   clusive of cost of travelling..    Rs.  5
                            7.   Travelling  to  the land-
                                 (a) for  each   of  the   first 5
                                        return   miles                Rs.  2
                                (6) for  cach  of  the  second    5
                                        return  miles                 Ro.  1:50
                                (c) for every  return  mile  thoro-
                                        after                         Ro.  1
                           8.   Wages    of 3 labourers               Rs. 2:50  per  labourer  per  day
                           9.   Batta   for nights out  for surve-
                                       yor                            Rs.  10 por  night
===== PAGE 45 =====
                             Partition      Act,    No.   16   of   1951.               47
             10.   Batta   for  nights   out   for  3
                          labourers                     Re.  1 per  labourer   per  night
             11.   Surveyor    attending   court   to
                          give evidence   relating to
                          his work                      Rs.  15 per  day
                  Costs of Commission     for Partition  in Courts  other  than  the
                                    District  Court  of Colombo
              1.  Survey    for partitioning    land,
                     +  of   the  fee  provided   for
                     the     preliminary      survey
                     under   item   1  in the   First
                     Schedule   fr r the purpose of a
                     a re-survey   for  partitioning
                     the land  where  in the opinion
                     of  the  court  a re-survey   is
                     necessary
              2.  For   partitioning  the  land  into
                     allotments    at  the   rate  of
                     Rs.  3.50 per lot of to  10 lots
                     and  at  the rate     Rs. 2  per
                     lot for  each  lot in excess  of
                     10  lots
              3.  For   making    plan,  report  and
                     schedule   of  adjustment     of
                     compensation      (irrespective
                     of the extent  ofland)             Rs. 15
              4.  Assessing   the  value of  the  va-
                     rious  lots,  buildings,  walle,
                     trees,  fences,  wells, planta-
                     tions  and    other   improve-
                     ments   for the purpose of awar-
                     ding  compensation    or owolty     An   amount    to be   fixed by
                                                      -   court,   not  exceeding    1%
                                                          of the  valuation
              5.  Cost   of notices  to  the parties
                     (other  than notices  of altera-
                     tion of  date to  suit the  con-
                     venience   of surveyor)   inclu-
                     sive of cost of registration  of
                     letter                             50 cents  per notice
              6.   Wagos   of  tom-tom    beater  in-
                     clusive of cost of travelling..    Rs. 5
              7.   Travelling  to the  land-
                   (a) for cach of the  first 5 return
                          miles                         Rs.  2
                   (6) for cach   of the   second   5
                          return  miles                 Re.  1:50
                   (c) for every  return mile  there-
                         after                          Re.  1
===== PAGE 46 =====
                              48              Partition      Act,   No.   16   of  1951.
                               8.   Wages   of 3 labourers               Rs.  2:50  per labourer
                               9.   Batta  for nights  out for surve-
                                           yor                           Rs. 7:50  per  night
                              10.   Batta   for  nights   out  for   3
                                      labourers                          Re.  1 per labourer  per  night
                              11.   Surveyor    attending   court   to
                                       give  evidence  relating to his
                                       work                              Rs. 10 per  day
                                                       FOURTH       SCHEDULE
                                                           [Section  58  (1)]
                                                                                    Amount      of   costs
                                                                                   under   section  58  (1)
                                                                                    (c) in   a   partition
                                                                                   action   in a  District
                                                                                            Court
                                                                                              Rs.
                              Where    the  value  of the  subject  matter   of the
                                 partition  action-
                                 (1) is not   less than  Rs.   300  but  less than
                                       Rs.  500                                                 90
                                 (2) is not   less than   Rs  500   but  less than
                                       Rs   1,000                                              140
                                 (3) is not  less than  Rs   1,000  but  less than
                                       Rs.  2,000                                              200
                                 (4) is not  less than  Rs.  2,000  but  less than
                                       Rs.  3,000                                              325
                                 (5) is not  less than  Rs.  3,000  but  less than
                                       Rs.  5,000                                              425
                                 (6) is not  less than  Rs.  5,000  but  less than
                                       Rs.  10,000                                             750
                                 (7) is not  less than  Rs. 10,000   but less than
                                       Rs.  50,000                                           1,000
                                 (8) is not less than  Rs.  50,000                           1,500
                                                        FIFTH     SCHEDULE
                                                             (Section  59)
                              Costs  recoverable   by  a  Proctor  from  his  client in an  action  in the
                                                            District   Court
                                                                       Class     Class     Class     Class
                                                                         I         II       III       IV
                                                                                  Rs.       Rs.       Rs.
                                                                                  750       3,000    5,000
                                    Where  the value of interest       Undor      and       and       and
                                             claimed is                 Ra.      undor     undor     under
                                                                        750       Rs.       Rs.      10,000 Rs.
                                                                                 3,000     5,000
                                                                      Rs.  C.    Rs. C.    Rs. C.    Rs.  C.
                                1. Conference with cliont and receiving
                                     instructions to sue,  dofend,  or                                12  0
                                     intorvone                          5  0      8  0      10  0..
                                2. Every   necossary  attondance   on
                                     client in the progress of an action                                  0
                                    or  proceeding                      2  0      3   0     4   0      6
===== PAGE 47 =====
                              Partition      Act,    No.    16  of   1951.               49
                                                        Class     Class     Class     Class
                                                          I         II       III       IV
                                                                   Rs.       Rs.       Rs.
                                                                   750       3,000    5,000
                    Where  tho value of interest       Under      and        and       and
                              claimed  is                Rs:      under     under     under
                                                         750       Rs.       Rs.       Rs.
                                                                  3,000  -  5,000     10,000
                                                      Rs.  C.   Rs.   C.   Rs.  C.   Rs.  C.
                3. Every   necessary   attendance   on                                 6   0
                     advocate                           2   0      3  0      4  0
                4. Every attendance  in court-
                     (a) on  returnable date  of sum-
                           mons,  notice or other pro-
                           cess or commission, and
                     (6) for   re-issuing   summons,
                           notice or other  process or                                 5   0
                           commission                    2  0      3  0      4   0 .
                5. Drawing  plaint, statoment of claim,                               24
                     or petition                        10  0     15  0     20  0          0
                6. Attending  court  and  filing plaint,                                   0
                    statement  of claim, or petition     2 50      3 75      4  0  -   4
                7. For  translating plaint into Sinha-                          0      4   0
                     leso or Tamil                       2 50      3 75      4
                S. For  every  copy of  plaint or of a                       1         1   0
                     translation thereof                 1  0      1  0         0
                9. For  proparing each  application for
                     registration of  lis pendens  and
                     duplicate thereof                   2 50      2 50      2 50      2  50
           :   10. For soarching  for encumbrances   in
                     Land   Rogistry and  for Proctor's
                     certificate regarding inspection of
                     entries in Land  Register relating
                     to  land   or  lands  constituting
                     subject matter  of action          10  0     10  0      10  0 .   10  0
                                                         plus the foo payable  to the  Land
                                                           Registry
               11. Cost  of advortising tho action in a
                      newspapor,   tho   actual   costs
                      incurred
               12.  Drawing   summons,    notico,  sub-
                      poena, writ, or othor process, or            1          1         1  0
                      order of court, each               1   0         0         0
                13. Making  copy or translation thereof  0 50      0  75     0  75      0 75
                14. Attonding   court  to  support   or
                      opposo  all nocossary or ordinary
                      applications                       5   0     5   0      7 50      7 50
                15. Drawing   affidavit and  fair copy,
                      per folio*                          1  0      1  0      1  0      1  0
                16. Drawing  briof for Advocato and fair
                      copy, por folio*                    1  0      1         1  0      1  0
                17. Examining    witnesses  preparatory
                      to  trial or for  instructions for
                      brief                               3  0      4  0      5  0..    6  0
                18. Attonding  court with  Advocate  on
                      trial, if causo arguod or hoard .  10  0     10  0     12 50     15  0
          ..    19. Attonding  court with  Advocato
                      trial  if         adjournod,   on
                      postponod  cause               or                       7 50      7 50
                                                          5  0      5  0
===== PAGE 48 =====
                                    50               Partition      Act,   No.   16  of   1951.
                                                                             Class      Class     Class    Class
                                                                               I         II        III       IV
                                                                                        Rs.        Rs.       Rs.
                                                                                        750      3,000     5,000
                                        Where   the valuo of interest       Under       and       and       and
                                                   claimed is                 Rs.      undor     undor     under
                                                                              750        Rs.       Rs.      Rs.
                                                                                        3,000     5,000    10,000
                                                                             Rs.  C.   Rs.  C.    Rs. C.   Rs.  C.
                                    20. Attending  court  without Advocate
                                          on trial, and conducting cause     20   0     20  0     25  0     30  0
                                    21. Attending  court  without Advocate
                                          on  trial, if cause adjourned   or
                                          postponed                           5   0      5  0      7 50      7 50
                                    22. Attending  court for an inquiry       Half  the rates set out in paras. 18,
                                                                                19, 20 and  21 of this schedule.
                                    23. Where  judgment  is deferred, attend-
                                          ing court to hear it                2 50       3 50      3 50  .   3 50
                                    24. For  drawing interlocutory decree    10   0     10  0     10  0     10  0
                                    25. For  drawing final decree            10   0     10  0     10  0     10  0
                                                                              plus Re. 1 for each lot
                                    26. For preparing scheme of distribution  7 50      10  0     15  0     20  0
                                    27. For  drawing bill of costs            0 75       1  0      1  0      1  0
                                    28. Attending  taxation                   1 50       2 50      2 50      2 50
                                      Note.-(1)   Costs in respect of plaint, summons, petition, affidavit or notice,
                                    or of copies or of translation thereof will be the actual cost of printing, typing
                                    or roneoing, or  at the rates indicated  in respoct thereof in this Schedule,
                                    wh ichever is lower.
                                      (2) In  all actions over Rs.  10,000 the taxable charges shall be one-fourth
                                    higher than  in Class IV.
                                       * A folio to consist of 120 words.
