Thinoris De Silva v. Weerasiri - NLR - 467 of 51 [1949] LKCA 37; (1949) 51 NLR 467 (11 October 1949) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1949 >> [1949] LKCA 37 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Thinoris De Silva v. Weerasiri - NLR - 467 of 51 [1949] LKCA 37; (1949) 51 NLR 467 (11 October 1949) 467 1940 Present: Wijeyewardene C.J. and Basnayake J. THINORIS DE SILVA, Appellant, and WEERASIRI et al., Respondents S. C. 363-D. C. Galle, 35,919 Will-Fidei commissum-Testator's devise to two sons-" After their death " the property to pass to " their lawful children "-Time at which the property devolved on the fideicommissaries-Distributive interpretation of the word " their ". A testator devised a land to his two sons A and P. The will imposed a prohibition against alienation and further provided: (1) '' In the event of the death of either of my said two sons without lawful issue I do hereby direct that the survivor shall become entitled to the share of the one so dying ", (2) " After their death their lawful children shall become entitled to the same absolutely ". A died unmarried and without children. It was contended that on A's death P became entitled not absolutely but, under a fidei commissum, only to a life interest in A's half share. Held , (i) that on the death of either A or P the half share given to the person so dying would devolve absolutely on his lawful children; (ii) that as A died without lawful children the half share devised to him went to his brother P absolutely. A PPEAL from an order of the District Court, Galle. H. V. Perera, K. C, with V. A. Jayasundera, K.C., and Vernon Wijetunge, for plaintiff appellant. N. E. Weerasooria, K. C, with H. A. Chandrasena and W. D. Gunasekera , for the intervenients respondents. Cur. adv. vult. October 11, 1949. WIJEYEWARDENE C.J. One Don Frederick Weerasiri was the original owner of a land called Medawatte. By Last Will P1 he devised his property to his two sons, Ariyadasa and Piyatileke, subject to certain conditions. The Last Will was duly proved at his death. Subsequently Ariyadasa died unmarried and without children. By deed P2 of 1936 Piyatileke conveyed to the plaintiff the half share which, he alleged, devolved on him absolutely on the death of Ariyadasa. The intervenients, who are the widow and children of Piyatileke, contested the title of the plaintiff to this land on the ground that, on the death of Ariyadasa, Piyatileke became entitled to that share subject to a fidei commissum and that, therefore, Piyatileke could transfer to the plaintiff only his life interest in that half share. The present appeal is from the judgment of the District Judge upholding the contention of the intervenients. 468 The clauses of P1 which have to be considered are clauses 8, 9, 10 and 12. By clause 8 the testator devised to Ariyadasa and Piyatileke his residing land Medawatte and several other lands. By clause 12 he provided that the devisees should have the right to enter into possession of all these properties and take the income only after the death of his widow. Clause 9.-" In the event of the death of either of my said two sons without lawful issue I do hereby direct that the survivor shall become entitled to the share of the one so dying." Clause 10.-(a) " I hereby will and direct that my said two sons shall only have the right to enjoy the rents, issues and profits derived from my residing land Medawatte and all the buildings thereon devised to them by clause 8 of the Will." (b) " They shall not sell, gift, mortgage or otherwise alienate or encumber the same or lease the same for any period exceeding two years at a time and " (c) " After their death their lawful children shall become entitled to the same absolutely." I have divided clause 10 of the Will into paragraphs (a), (6) and (c) for convenience of reference. New under clauses 8 and 12 Ariyadasa and Piyatileke would have become each entitled to an undivided half share of Medawatte subject to the life interest of the widow of the testator. Under these clauses alone there would have been no right of survivorship (vide section 7 of the Wills Ordinance). Then we get clause 9 which says that on the death of either Ariyadasa or Piyatileke without lawful issue the survivor shall become entitled to the share of the one so dying. If this clause stood by itself the question would have arisen whether the Last Will created a fidei commissum in favour of the lawful issue. In other words, if Ariyadasa had lawful issue and Ariyadasa transferred his share to a third party, could the rights of that third party have been defeated by the lawful issue of Ariyadasa claiming that half share as fideicommissaries on the death of Ariyadasa? This is a matter on which the views of Grotius and Bynkershoek are opposed to the views of Sande and van Leeuwen (Censura Forensis) as adopted in Steenkamp v. Marais [1 (1908) 25 S. C. 438.]. The latter case is however criticised by A. J. McGregor in volume 53 of the South African Law Journal (1936), page 265, and is also in conflict with the view expressed by Lee in his Introduction to Roman-Dutch Law, fourth edition, page 380. It is clause 10 of the Last Will that puts the matter beyond any doubt in this case. I shall now proceed to examine clause 10 in detail. Paragraph (a) shows that Ariyadasa and Piyatileke could only take the income from Medawatte " devised by clause 8 of the Will ". It will be noted that the words used in his paragraph are " devised by clause 8 of the Will " and not " devised by clauses 8 and 9 of the Will ". This paragraph shows that Ariyadasa and Piyatileke were each given only the income of the half share devised by clause 8 but the testator was silent in that 469 sub-paragraph with regard to the extent of the interest in the half share that came to the survivor of Ariyadasa and Piyatileke under clause 9. The paragraph (6) prohibited Ariyadasa and Piyatileke from making certain alienations again in respect of what has been devised to them by clause 8 of the Will. These two paragraphs (a) and (b) taken by themselves would not have been sufficient to create a fidei commissum (vide section 3 of the Entail and Settlement Ordinance). It is paragraph (c) which indicates the fideicommissaries clearly. The question, however, arises as to the time at which the property devolves on these fideicommissaries. When do the lawful children referred to in paragraph (c) become entitled to their interests absolutely? Suppose Ariyadasa died first leaving "lawful children" and Piyatileke died 40 years after, leaving "lawful children". Have the "lawful children" of Ariyadasa to wait for forty years after the death of their father or do they come in immediately after the death of Ariyadasa? The answer to that question will depend on the interpretation of the words "after their death" and "their lawful children" in paragraph (c). Do these words mean "after the death of both" and "the lawful children of both" or do they mean "after the death of each" and "the lawful children of each? Of course the question whether the word "their" is to be interpreted distributively depends to a large extent on the context. Considering that we are dealing here with a devise in favour of two sons and not in favour of a husband and wife and taking into consideration the provisions of clause 8 I think that the word "their" is used in this Will distributively (vide Abeyeratne v. Jagaris [1 (1924) 26 N. L. R. 181.] ). After a consideration of the various clauses in the Last Will including those mentioned by me earlier I have reached the decision. (a) that the testator gave a half share of Medawatte to each of his two sons, Ariyadasa and Piyatileke, subject to a life interest in favour of his widow; (b) that the devisees, Ariyadasa and Piyatileke, had after the death of the widow, only a life interest in the half share so given to each; (c) that on the death of either Ariyadasa or Piyatileke the half share given to the person so dying would devolve absolutely on his lawful children; (d) that if Ariyadasa and Piyatileke died without lawful children the half share devised to the person so dying would go to his surviving brother absolutely. I find, therefore, that the plaintiff is entitled to a half share of the land absolutely by virtue of the transfer P2. I set aside the order of the District Judge and direct him to enter a partition decree in accordance with the above finding. The intervenients-respondents will pay the plaintiff-appellant the costs of appeal and the costs of the proceedings in the District Court on October 8, 1947. 470 After I wrote the above judgment my attention was drawn by my brother Basnayake to Bees v. Registrar of Deeds et. al [1 S. A. L. R. (1938) C. P. D., 459.] and Ex parte Bosch [ 2 S. A. L. R. (1943) C. P. D., 369.]. The reasoning in these oases appears to support the view expressed above. BASNAYAKE J.-I agree. Order set aside. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1949/37.html