Abeysinghe v. Abeysekera - SLR - 104, Vol 2 of 1995 [1995] LKCA 31; (1995) 2 Sri LR 104 (13 March 1995) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1995 >> [1995] LKCA 31 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Abeysinghe v. Abeysekera - SLR - 104, Vol 2 of 1995 [1995] LKCA 31; (1995) 2 Sri LR 104 (13 March 1995) 104 ABEYSINGHE v. ABEYSEKERA COURT OF APPEAL SILVA, J. (P/CA) RANARAJA, J. C. A. APPLICATIONS 205/94 43/94 D.C. COLOMBO 15878/L MARCH 13, 1995. Rei Vindicatio - Ex parte - Execution of a Decree - Proceedings under S. 328 S. 662 Civil Procedure Code - Premises demolished - Restoration - Is it possible? - Defendant dead at the time of Institution of Action - Proceedings a nullity - Void - Coram non judice - Contract of Tenancy - Ex debito justitiae - Inherent Jurisdiction of Court - S 839. The Respondent as the owner of the premises in suit instituted Rei Vindicatio action against the father of the Petitioner. After Ex parte trial, the Fiscal ejected the` power of attorney holder of the petitioner, who is the son of the original Defendant. The petitioner instituted proceedings under s. 328 of the Civil Procedure code. The Learned District Judge dismissed the application as he found that the premises in suit had been demolished in the interim and further held that as the Defendant was dead at the time of the institution of the action the entire proceedings were Null and Void. HELD: (1) When there is no 'live' Defendant before Court it has no jurisdiction to hear and determine, the action. If the Court has no jurisdiction, it is of no consequence that the proceedings had been formally conducted for they are coram Non Judice. The judgment entered is void and a nullity. (2) The proceedings being void, the person affected can apply to have same set aside ex debito - justitiae- in the exercise of the inherent jurisdiction of the court. (3) The Tenancy of an Urban Tenement relates to the existence of a building, when the leased tenement is extensively damaged it is impossible to say that the premises are still in existence for the tenancy to continue. (4) Where the building perished, the statutory tenancy also ceased to exist, there cannot be a statutory tenancy in respect of bare land. (5) Restitution will be effected only when such a course is legally and physically possible. 105 Cases referred to: (1) Ramprathab v. Gaurishanker AIR (1924) Bom 109. (2) Muthu Ramaie v Athi Mulan 66 N.L.R. 251 at 255. (3) Odiris Appuhamy v. P. B: Umbichy 65 CLW 66 (4) Jane Nona v. Jayasuriya 1986 (1) CALR 315. (5) Perera v. Perera 49 N. L R. 254 at 256. (6) Siriniwasa Thero v. Sudassi Thero 63 N.L.R. 31. (7) Samuel v. Mohideen 71 N. L. R. 281. (8) Giffry v. Silva 69 N.L.R. 281. (9) Ittepana v Hemawathie -1981 1 SLR 47. AN APPLICATION in Revision from an Order of the District Court of Colombo A. K. Premadasa, P. C. with C. E. de Silva for petitioner P. A. D. Samarasekera, P.C. with Dr. J. de Costa and R. Y. D. Jayasekera for respondent Cur. adv. vult. April 27, 1995 RANARAJA, J. The Respondent as owner of premises No. 80 Maliban Street, Colombo 11, instituted action against the father of the petitioner, T P. J. Abeysinghe for declaration of title, ejectment and damages. Trial was held ex parte and decree entered. An application for the execution of the decree was allowed. In executing the writ, the fiscal ejected the power of attorney holder of the petitioner and his employees and handed over vacant possession of the premises to the respondent. The petitioner himself was in Japan at the time and apparently he still is. The petitioner thereafter through his power of attorney holder initiated proceedings under Section 328 of the Civil Procedure Code for restoration of possession. The Learned District Judge: after inquiry dismissed the application of the petitioner on 4.3.94. The main ground for dismissal was that the premises in suit had been demolished by the respondent in the interim, and as such, Court could not restore the petitioner to possession of a bare land. Court also concluded that the entire proceedings were null and void as the defendant in the case was dead at the time the action was 106 instituted. These applications in revision and leave to appeal are from that order. Learned President's Counsel for the respondent did not contest the finding of the District Judge that the defendant was. dead at the time the action was instituted. An action filed against a 'sole defendant who was dead at the time is a nullity, and any substitution of his legal representative thereafter is also a nullity. The reason is that the action is not merely against a wrong person but against no person at all, and when the substitution of his legal representative is made it is not really a case of substitution but rather the filing of a new action against a new defendant. ( Ramprathab v. Gaurishanker (1) followed with approval in Muthu Ramaie v. Athi Mulan (2), see also Odiris Appuhamy v. P B. Umbichy (3), Jane Nona v. Jayasuriya (4) An action which is a nullity cannot receive ratification such: as would retroactively render it valid from its commencement. ( Perera v. Perera (5)). The proceedings in the action have the effect of not having taken place at all. Hence the decree and the writ issued on the basis of that decree will be a nullity. When Court makes an order without jurisdiction it has inherent power to set it aside and repair the damage done to a party by its act. ( Sirinivasa Thero v. Sudassi Thero (6) ). However, it is not possible in every case to do so. The instant case is one fraught with such difficulties. The District Judge would have had no hesitation in restoring possession of the premises to the petitioner-had the respondent not demolished the building after vacant possession was handed over .to him by the fiscal in the course of execution of the writ. What stands now in its place is a bare land surrounded by wails of the neighboring buildings on three sides and the road on the other. A demise of a building above: the ground necessitates: the definition of a physical subject matter by walls, floor: and roof, there being no such thing in law as a demise of a volume of space above the surface of the earth unbounded by physical walls, floor a d roof ( Woodfall-Landlord and tenant 26th Ed. pg: 1017 ). The question that has to be answered is whether Court is justified in handing over posse ion to the petitioner of something which cannot form the basis Of a tenancy. 107 Upon a consideration of earlier authorities) on the subject. : It is not possible to accede to the submissions made by earned President's Counsel for the petitioner fat the possess on of be bare land on which the building, or, finally stood should ;be handed over to the petitioner: The tenancy of an urban tenement relates; to the existence of a building. When, the leased tenement, is so extensively damaged that it can no longer be used for the purpose for which it was leased, it is impossible to say that, the premises are still in existence for the tenancy to continue. ( Samuel v. Mohideen (7) ). In a contract of tenancy, the tenant is-entitled to the use and occupation of the building, and if there is no building to use and, occupy, there is no contract. If the building is completely destroyed the contract comes to an: end even, though the land remains- ( Wille - Landlord & Tenant 4th Ed. 249 ). The petitioner claims restoration to the premises as statutory tenant. The position is no different in the case of statutory tenancy. When the building perished the statutory tenancy also ceased to exist. There cannot be a statutory tenancy in respect of bare land. The rent Laws do not inhere in the land after demolition of the building but remain so long as it is there. ( Giffry v. Silva (8) ). X statutory tenancy endures so long as the building exists. So it does not survive the destruction of it. ( Woodfall - Landlord & Tenant Pg. 1217 ). In the circumstances of the instant case, even if Court exercised its inherent powers to effect restoration, it would have compounded its earlier mistakes, by doing what the law does not recognise, namely to declare a tenancy where none existed. Learned President's Counsel submitted his client had the right to be restored to possession of the bare land and thereafter he could call upon the respondent to erect a new building for him to occupy, or in the alternative the petitioner could himself erect a building with the approval of the Rent Board. This submission is made firstly, on the premise that there is a continuing statutory tenancy in respect of the premises. As seen, the law is all one way, that is, against the petitioner. Secondly, it is assumed that the Rent Board has such wide powers to order a landlord to erect buildings for a tenant's occupation, or order the landlord to suffer the erection of a building on his land by the tenant. Neither Section 13 nor any other provision in the Rent Act vests the Rent Board with such powers. This submission therefore cannot succeed. 108 Learned President's Counsel submitted that the respondent had by fraud, obtained a decree against a dead man. "When there' is no live defendant before Court, the Court has no jurisdiction to hear and determine the action. If the Court has no jurisdiction, it is of no consequence that the proceedings had been formally conducted, for they are coram non judice. A judgment entered by such Court is void and mere nullity. Black-on Judgments. - P 261 . "When Court is made aware of the defect in its jurisdiction, the question of rescinding or otherwise altering the judgment does not arise, since the judgment is a nullity. When there is no act, there can be no question of the power to revoke or rescind. One cannot alter that which does not exist. The exercise of power to declare such proceedings or judgment a nullity is in fact an original exercise of the power of the Court and not an exercise of the power of revocation or alteration. The proceedings being void, the person affected by them can apply to have them set aside ex debito justitiae in the exercise of the inherent jurisdiction of the Court. Section 839 of the Civil Procedure Code preserves the inherent powers of the Court "to make such orders as may be necessary for the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of Court! This Section embodies a legislative recognition, of the inherent powers of the Court to make such orders as may be necessary for the ends of justice. The inherent power is exercised ex debito justitiae to do real and substantial justice for the administration of which alone Court exists. Sharvananda, J. in Ittapana v. Hemawathie (9) The petitioner has moved Court under Sections 328 and 662 of the Code. No application has been made for the Court to exercise its inherent jurisdiction under Section 839 of the Code: As seen, when Court acts without jurisdiction, the entire proceedings are a nullity. Making an application under Section 328 or for that matter under: any Section except- Section 839 is inappropriate and futile. Even when Court. acts on ,its: inherent power under Section 839 of the Code to make any order o meet the ends .of .justice. Court: will, so far as possible , : put the aggrieved party in the position he would have occupied. if the wrong: order Iliad not been made. Sirinivasa Thero v. Sudassi Thero (supra) Section 839 cannot be invoked to obtain complete reparation for the wrong done. Restitution will be effected only when such a course is legally -and physically possible. When 119 complete reparation is not possible, it is open to the aggrieved party to seek appropriate relief by instituting a regular action for damages for loss wrongfully caused to him. In the event, p as of right claim to be restored to the bare land, on which the building: he occupied earlier stood. For the reasons given the applications of the petitioner are dismissed with costs. S. N. SILVA, J. - I agree. Applications dismissed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1995/31.html