Guneris v. Karunaratne - NLR - 47 of 18 [1914] LKCA 57; (1914) 18 NLR 47 (3 September 1914) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1914 >> [1914] LKCA 57 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Guneris v. Karunaratne - NLR - 47 of 18 [1914] LKCA 57; (1914) 18 NLR 47 (3 September 1914) 47 Present : Pereira J. and De Sampayo A.J. 1914. GUNERIS v. KARUNARATNE. 228-D. C. Negombo, 9,696. Omission on the part of notary to search for registration of seizures before drawing up conveyance-Action for damages against notary. Where a notary follows a general practice and makes a mistake regarding the strict requirements of the law as to which there is a reasonable doubt, or where he commits an error of judgment, he is not guilty of such negligence as would make him liable in damages to his client. Defendant, a notary, was sued by plaintiff for damages sustained by him by reason of omission on the part of defendant to search for registrations of seizures before drawing a conveyance of a certain parcel of land in plaintiff's favour. Held , per PEREIRA J.-That under section 29 (16a) of the Notaries Ordinance, 1907, it was the duty of a notary, before a deed or instrument affecting land or other immovable property was drawn by him, to search or cause to be searched the registers in the Land Registry, to ascertain, inter alia, whether there were registrations of seizures (in execution) of the property dealt with by the deed or instrument, but that in the present case the defendant was not 48 liable, because the evidence showed that the omission to search the registers for registrations of seizures was due to an error of judgment. Per DE SAMPAYO A.J.- The defendant was not bound to search for registrations of seizures under section 29 (16a) of the Notaries Ordinance, 1907. I N this action the plaintiff sued the defendant, who is a notary, to recover a sum of Rs. 1,000 as damages for drawing a deed of transfer, No. 44 of October 18, 1912, in his (plaintiff's) favour without properly searching for encumbrances, with the result that a duly registered seizure of one-third of the property transferred existing at the execution of the transfer deed was not discovered, and this transfer deed was rendered void to such extent, and plaintiff lost title to one-third of this land sold to him. The plaintiff alleged that the loss of the one-third share was due to the defendant's negligence. The defendant filed answer denying liability. The learned District Judge after trial dismissed plaintiff's action with costs. The plaintiff appealed. A. St. V. Jayewardene , for the plaintiff, appellant.-The notary did not search for registrations of seizures. It was necessary to have searched that register as well to find out the state of the vendor's title. Section 29 (16a) of the Notaries Ordinance, 1907, requires the notary to ascertain the state of the vendor's title. Seizure is an encumbrance; under the Civil Procedure Code all alienations by the debtor pending the seizure are void, as against claims enforceble under the seizure. The notary was guilty of negligence for not making the search, and he is liable in damages, as this was a gross neglect of duty. The section of the Notaries Ordinance made his duty very clear. If there was a wrong practice, it should not be allowed to over-ride the law. Counsel cited 3 Nathan, p. 1747, paras. 1706, 1709; Williams on Vendors and Purchasers 579, 604; 25 Halsbury 357; Ramanathan (1820) 4; Van Zyl's Judicial Practice 735; 4 C. P. 13; 7 L. T. R. 781; 21 L. J. Q. B. 292. Bawa, K.C . (with him Samarawickreme and Dias ), for the respondent (not called upon). Cur. adv. vult. September 3, 1914. PEREIRA J.- The primary question in this case is whether the defendant can be said to be guilty of negligence in omitting to search for registrations of seizures in execution of the property sold to the plaintiff on the deed attested by him, that is to say, deed No. 44 of the 18th October, 1912. I think it is clear law that a notary, like a solicitor, is not liable to his client in damage for loss caused to him by an error of 49 judgment on the part of the notary, nor would he be chargeable with negligence if he make a mistake on a point of law or practice as to which there was reasonable doubt. (See Kemp v. Burt, 1 [4 Barn. & Adolp. 442.] Elkington v. Holland. 2 [9 M. & W. 659.]) In the present case it is contended that it was the defendant's duty to search for registrations of seizures under section 29 (16a) of the Notaries Ordinance, 1907. I am in entire agreement with the counsel for the appellant here. The section referred to provides that before any deed or instrument (other than a will or codicil) affecting any interest in land or other immovable property is drawn by a notary, he shall search or cause to be searched the registers in the Land Registry to ascertain the state of the title in regard to such land, and whether any prior deed affecting any interest in such land has been registered. It has been said that the provision really means that the object of the search should be no more than to ascertain whether there are registered deeds relating to the land. This construction would be tantamount to sweeping away from the section the words " to ascertain the state of title in regard to such land. " These words did not occur in the old Notaries Ordinance, and they hav3 been advisedly inserted in the new to enlarge the scope of the section, and there is no reason that I can think of why they should be given no meaning or effect. Rules of sound construction require that effect should be given, wherever possible, to every word of a legislative enactment. Now, a seizure in execution of a parcel of land, especially a registered seizure, is undoubtedly an encumbrance on the land, and therefore a search to ascertain the state of the title must necessarily involve a search for registrations of seizures. At the same time there can be no question that the section of the Ordinance is very unhappily expressed. Had it been proved by the appellant that the section was generally understood to mean that registrations of seizures should be searched for, I should not have hesitated to condemn the defendant in damages; but the evidence is all the other way. The defendant himself has pledged his word to the effect that the words " state of title " he understood to mean " claim of title or legal title, " whatever that may mean. It is manifest that he intended to convey that he did not understand the expression to indicate the necessity for a search of registrations of seizures, and I think that, in view of the unsatisfactory way in which the provision of the Ordinance is expressed, he may well be excused if he did not. There is then the evidence of D. C. Jayasundere, the daybook clerk of the Registrar's office, Negombo, who speaks of the practice among notaries as to searches in the Registrar's office. He says that the register of seizures is not searched by notaries. In these circumstances, I am not prepared to say that the defendant can be deemed to have been guilty of negligence, and I would dismiss the appeal with costs. 50 DE SAMPAYO A.J.- I entertain some doubt as to whether rule 16 under section 29 of the Notaries Ordinance, No. 1 of 1907, whatever its intention might be, has effectively imposed on notaries the duty of searching the register of seizures. Beading as a whole the two paragraphs and the proviso comprising rule 16, I am inclined to think that a notary is thereby only required to search for prior deeds, if any, relating to the land for which he is instructed to draw a deed himself. It is true that the rule says that he shall search the registers in the Land Registry " to ascertain the state of the title in regard to such land." But these words are inaptly wedged in among provisions having to do purely with the register of deeds, and I find it difficult to understand them in the sense that it is the general duty of a notary as such to examine the title. He may indeed do so, apart from the rules in the Notaries Ordinance, if he is requested by his client, and the schedule of fees in the Ordinance authorizes a fee to be charged for examining, at the request of any party, the title of any property to be transferred, &c. But if he is not so requested, the notary is not, in my opinion, bound to satisfy himself as to title, and if not, why should he search for such encumbrances as seizures, which are only relevant to the examination of the title ? I hesitate to hold that the words above quoted have a larger signification than that the notary is required to ascertain the state of the title in go far as it is disclosed by registered deeds, which belong to the special province of notaries. The practice officially recognized is in accordance with this view, and, on the principle that use is the best interpreter of laws, appears to me to throw considerable light on the meaning of the rule. For it is proved by the officer of the Registrar's Department, who was called as a witness, that, when a notary makes an application to search the registers, he searches, and can only search, the register of deeds, and that for the purpose of searching the register of seizures a special application must be made, and, as the District Judge observes, the printed forms for " application for search " issued by the Registrar-General's Department bear out that evidence. It is, however, not necessary for the purposes of this appeal to decide the question; it is sufficient to say that even if rule 16 imposes on a notary the absolute duty of searching the register of seizures, the defendant in this particular case has not been proved to have been guilty of such negligence as would entitle the plaintiff to maintain an action against him for damages. I also share the suspicion expressed by the District Judge that the plaintiff's claim is not bona fide, that he has really suffered no damage, and that this action is engineered by parties who are not before the Court. I agree that the appeal should be dismissed with costs. Appeal dismissed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1914/57.html