Pathirana v. Jayasundara - NLR - 169 of 58 [1955] LKCA 67; (1955) 58 NLR 169 (15 June 1955) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1955 >> [1955] LKCA 67 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Pathirana v. Jayasundara - NLR - 169 of 58 [1955] LKCA 67; (1955) 58 NLR 169 (15 June 1955) 169 1955 Present : Gratiaen, I., and Fernando, J. R. W. PATHIRANA, Appellant, and R. E. DE S. JAYASUNDARA, Respondent S. C. (Inty.) 144-D. C. Kurunegala, 9,003 Pleadings-Amendment of plaint---Lessor and lessee-Action against overholding lessee-Plea of prescriptive title raised by def end ant-Right of plaintiff to amend plaint soar to alter action into one of rei vindicatio-Distinction between tenancy action and vindicatory action. A lessor of property who institutes action on the basis of a cause of action arising from a breach by the defendant of his contractual obligation as lessee is not entitled to amend his plaint subsequently so as to alter the nature of the proceeding to an action rei vindicatio if such a course would prevent or prejudice the setting up by the defendant of a plea of prescriptive title. Plaintiff sued the defendant on the basis that the defendant, wan an overholding lessee by attornment. Defendant admitted the bare execution of the lease, but stated that the lessors were unable to give him possession of the land in question. lie averred that the land was sold to him by its lawful owner (not one of the lessors) and that by adverse possession from that date he had acquired title by prescription. The plaintiff then sought to amend the plaint by claiming a declaration of title and ejectment upon the footing that his rights of ownership had been violated. field, that the plaintiff was not entitled to amend the plaint if the amendment would cause prejudice to the defendant's plea of prescriptive possession by him. A PPEAL from a judgment of the District Court, Kurunegala. H. W. Jayewardene, Q.C., with L. Mututantri, for the plaintiff appellant. H. V. Perera, Q.C., with N. E'. Weerasooria, Q.C., and W. D. Gunasekera, for the defendant-respondent. Cur. adv. vult . June 15, 1955. H. N. G. FERNANDO, J.- The plaint in this action which was filed on 17th September, 1952 contained averments (1) that at the material time certain persons were the owners of the land described in the Schedule. - - (2) that those persons had let the land to the Defendant on 21st February, 1942 170 (3) that those persons sold the land to the Plaintiff on the 6th February 1950, and that the Defendant as lessee attorned to the Plaintiff. (4) that the Defendant is estopped from denying the title of the Plaintiff. (5) that the Defendant failed and neglected to deliver possession of the land notwithstanding the determination of that lease on 21st February, 1952. and (6) that the Plaintiff has sustained damages consequential to the Defendant's unlawful possession. The plaint then prayed for a declaration of title to the land, for the ejectment of the Defendant and for damages. The Defendant in Ins answer admitted the bare execution of the lease, but stated that the lessors were unable to give him possession of the land and denied the alleged attornment. He averred that, on the same day (21st February, 1942) on which the lease was executed, the land was sold to him by its lawful owner (not one of the lessors) and that by adverse possession from that date he had acquired title by prescription. He however further stated that in the event of the Plaintiff obtaining a declaration of title he claims a sum of Rs. 27,000 as compensation for bona fide improvements. The Plaintiff then sought to amend his plaint by setting out precisely the title of the persons who had leased the land to the Defendant and had subsequently sold the land to the Plaintiff, and by adding an averment that he and his predecessors had acquired title by prescription as well. The objections of the Defendant to tins amendment have been upheld by the learned. District Judge on the ground that it " alters the entire scope of the action and converts a purely tenancy action into an action for declaration of title ". Although the Defendant had pleaded that he had entered into possession under a deed of 21st February, 1.942, and the dating back of the amendment to the date of the plaint, i.e., 17th September, 1952, would not prima facie prejudice the Defendant's plea of-prescriptive possession, the Judge thought that the amendment would cause prejudice to the Defendant if ho could only prove possession as from some later time than February 1942. Mr. Jayawardene argues in appeal that the cause of action pleaded in the plaint was not purely the Defendant's refusal to fulfil an obligation arising from the alleged contract of tenancy and was in addition a denial by the Defendant of the Plaintiff's title to the land, and that accordingly the action upon the original plaint was an action rei vindicatio in which an issue as to the Plaintiff's title could properly have been raised. I shall try to deal seriatim with the arguments relied upon for the appellant. The plaint in general terms recites that the Plaintiff's vendors were the owners of the land at the material time, and it is said that the object of the amendment is merely to set out in detail the source of vendor's title. But this recital was in any event necessary for the purposes of the tenancy action, because the Plaintiff's title as lessor was derivative 171 and he had therefore to state and prove from whom he derived it. While a recital that certain persons had let the land to the Defendant and that the Plaintiff had subsequently acquired the rights of the original lessors would have been a sufficient exposition of the derivation of title, I do not see how the express reference to the fact that the Plaintiff's vend were owners can pat in issue the question of their title, any more than the question of a Plaintiff-landlord's title would be put in issue by an aver that the Plaintiff was the owner of the land and leased the premises the Defendant ". The recital in paragraph 2 of the plaint is so clearly referable to the need to prove the derivative title that it is of little significance in determining whether the main question arising upon the -' , plaint would have been the proof of the Plaintiff's title. Mr. Jayawardene then points to a statement in paragraph 7 that Plaintiff has sustained damages consequential to the Defendant's unlawful possession, from which he seeks to argue that his action was for a cation of property which the Defendant possessed in denial of the -tiff's rights as owner. Here again, the statement follows immediately; after the averment in paragraph 6 that" the Defendant has failed a neglected to deliver possession of the said lands notwithstanding that rights as lessee thereof were duly determined on the 21st February 1952 ". The two paragraphs constituted together the statement of Plaintiff's first cause of action and it is clear that the unlawful possession of which the Plaintiff complained was the overholding by toe after the cessation of his contractual rights. There is however the further point that the Plaintiff in his sought not only ejectment but also a declaration of title, a prayer -j which latter relief is probably -unusual in an action against an overholding tenant. I have no doubt that it is open to a lessor in an action for ejectment to ask for a declaration of title, but the question of difficulty arises is whether the action thereby becomes a rei vindicatio for which strict proof of the Plaintiff's title would be required, or else is one for a declaration (without strict proof) of a title which the tenant by law precluded from denying. If the essential element of a rei vindicatio is that the right of ownership must be strictly proved, it is difficult to accept the proposition that an action in which the Plaintiff can automatically obtain a declaration of title through the operation of a rule in estoppel should be regarded as a vindicatory action. The fact that the person in possession of property originally held as lessee would not preclude the lessor-owner from choosing to proceed against him by a rei vindication. But this choice can I think he properly exercised only by clearly setting out the claim of title and sounding in delict. I am unable to agree with Mr. Jayawardene that the pleadings here indicate a exercise of that choice. Take for instance the case where a person alleges that he had leased his land for a twenty-year term with rent paid in advance, but subject to forfeiture for breach of covenant. If he purports to terminate after or 15 years for such a breach, and then comes into Court averring chat-he is owner and that the Defendant has failed to deliver up possession despite the termination of the lease by forfeiture and asks for a declaration 172 of title and ejectment, can he, after answer is filed to the same effect is the present case, seek to maintain that he had in the plaint put in issue in an action rei vindicatio ? If lie can, then it would -s although the plaint conceded by implication that rent was duly until the date of termination-i, he may nevertheless add by a-me' -claim for damages for the 3 year period before action on the fool wrongful possession. I think the true position in such a case is be that the owner originally decided to proceed upon a cause a arising from a breach of the contractual obligation and cannot nature of the proceeding to an notion rei vindicatio if such a course prevent or prejudice the setting up by the Defendant of a prescription. Upon the question of amendment of pleadings generally, Withers in Ratwatte is Owen [(1896)2 N. . B. 141] After the plaint has once been a' I think as a general rule that it should not be amended till after has been settled. The office of an amendment will generally he stage to square the plaint with the issue if necessary ", thus in' that the discretionary power to permit an amendment of the should not be exercised unless firstly, a particular issue does the original plaint and secondly, further pleadings are necessary i to explain or clarify matters relevant to the particular issue. Subsequent show that the general rule as so stated is not to he as inflexible and that relaxation is permissible in order to the more expeditious termination of disputes. But no such Tel is proper if it would be prejudicial to a plea of prescription available Defendant. The Defendant's attempt in this case to deny the operation him of the rule of estoppel and to set up possession adverse to the I and his predecessors constitutes merely a denial relevant to the -letting and attornment arising upon the plaint. It is argued inclusion by the Defendant of a claim for bona fide improvements in the event of the Plaintiff obtaining a declaration of title indicates Defendant understood the Plaintiff's action to be one of re-i vi-a Even if the Defendant's state of mind at the time he filed the is of assistance in determining the character of the action earlier i by the Plaintiff, there is in this case the further consideration hat claim is not necessarily out of place in an action between landlord and tenant . . . (Wille Landlord and Tenant, 4th Ed. Ch. 22). For these reasons I think that the order of the learned Judge and that the appeal must be dismissed with costs. GRATIAEN, J.-- I agree. In a rei vindicatio action proper the owner of immovable property is entitled, on proof of Ins title, to a decree in his favour recovery of the property and for the ejectment of the person in -occupation. The plaintiff's ownership of the thing is of the very of the action ". Maasdorp's Institutes (7th Ed.) Vol. 2, 96. 173 The scope of an action by a lessor against an overholding lessee for restoration and ejectment, however, is different. Privity of contract (whether it be by original agreement or by attornment) is the foundation of the right to relief and issues as to title are irrelevant to the proceedings. Indeed, a lessee who has entered into occupation is precluded from disputing his lessor's title until he has first restored the property in fulfilment of his contractual obligation. "The lessee (conductor) cannot plead the exceptio dominii, although he may be able easily to prove his own owner-' ship, but he must by all means first surrender his possession and then litigate as to proprietorship Voet 19.2.32. Both these forms of action referred to are no doubt designed to secure the same primary relief, namely, the recovery of property. But the cause of action in one case is the violation of the plaintiff's rights of ownership, in the other it is the breach of the lessee's contractual obligation. A decree for a declaration of title may, of course, be obtained by way of additional relief either in a rei vindicatio action proper (which is in truth an action in rem) or in a lessor's action against his overholding tenant (which is an action in personam). But in the former case, the declaration is based on proof of ownership in the latter, on proof of the contractual relationship which forbids a denial that the lessor is the true' owner. As to procedure, Section 35 of the Code permits the joinder of certain forms of relief in an action (either in rem or in personam) for the recovery of immovable property and/or for the declaration of title. For instance, in a rei vindicatio action proper, the plaintiff may ask for (a) mesne profits and (h) damages conscquential on the trespass. Similarly, in the lessor's action in personam against the overholding lessee, he may claim (a) arrears of rent and (b) damages for breach of the contract of lease. Analysed in the light of these simple rules, the plaintiff's original plaint had very clearly asked for relief against the defendant on the ground of an alleged contractual relationship created by attornment. Paragraphs-2, 3 and 4 contain averments which, if true, establish (1) the original contract of lease between, the plaintiff's vendors and the defendant (2) the -subsequent purchase of the property by the plaintiff pending the duration of the lease, and finally (3) an attornment in 1950. Paragraph in effect relies on the contractual relationship thus established as giving rise to an estoppel against denying the lessor's title, and it is this averment which forms the foundation of the prayer for a declaratory decree as to title. The rest of the plaint pleads three causes of action each of which is unambiguously based on an alleged breach of a contractual obligation, namely, (a) failure to restore the property upon the termination of the lease (b) failure to maintain the property in good condition during the 174 pendency of the lease and (c) failure in terms of the lease to improve property. Upon these causes of action, the plaintiff has clan restoration of the property, ejectment and damages. It is therefore quite apparent that the action as originally constituted was not a rei vindicatio action proper in which any issues as to rights ownership could properly arise for adjudication Nothing that i defendant has since alleged by way of defence can by itself alter the see of the real issues relevant to the granting of the relief prayed for in I plaint. The defendant has denied attornment If this be true, the entire foundation of the plaintiff's claim is destroyed. If it be false, the plaintiff's claim for a declaration of title (based on the legal consequences a contractual relationship) and for ejectment must necessarily succeed In the latter event, the defendant's claim for compensation could only arise on proof of special circumstances in which a lessee, as opposed to bona fide improver who possessed ut dominus, could be compensated under our law. In the situation which has now arisen, the plaintiff has sought to amen his plaint so as to ask, in the alternative, for the same relief as he has originally sought but on entirely different grounds. In other words, he claims a declaration of title and ejectiment upon the footing that his alleged rights of ownership had been violated even if his original averment as to privity of contract by attornment be untrue. Similarly, his alter. native claim for damages would stand on an entirely different footing. To allow the amendment at this stage would be to convert an action in personam into an action in personam (founded on contract) coupled in the alternative with an action in rem (founded on ownership), I do not think that it would be proper to allow the scope of the action to be subjected to a fundamental alteration of this kind, because the addition of the alternative cause of action would potentially prejudice the defend. ant on the issue as to the plaintiff's prescriptive title if the date of the averment is to relate back (as it necessarily must) to the date of the original plaint. Waduganathan Chettiar v. Sena Abdul Cassim [(1952) 54 N. L. R. 185] The Court should always refuse a party's application to amend his pleadings by asking for relief (even the same relief as he had originally claimed) upon a fresh cause of action which may have become prescribed in the interval. . I am aware that in Noorbhoy v. Mohideen Pillai [(1929) 31 N. L. R. 3], the plaintiff, having originally sued the defendant on a promissory note, was permitted to amend his plaint by asking alternatively for a money decree for a like amount upon a cause of action for goods sold and delivered. But in that case the possibility of prejudice to the defendant on the issue of prescription was not raised. I do not doubt that Noorbhoy's case would have been differently decided if, at the date of the proposed amendment, the cause of action on the alternative count had already become barred by limitation. Appeal dismissed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1955/67.html