Peiris v. Weerasekere - NLR - 150 of 38 [1936] LKCA 63; (1936) 38 NLR 150 (18 September 1936) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1936 >> [1936] LKCA 63 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Peiris v. Weerasekere - NLR - 150 of 38 [1936] LKCA 63; (1936) 38 NLR 150 (18 September 1936) 150 1936 Present : Abrahams C.J. and Soertsz A.J. PEIRIS v. WEERASEKERE. 94 - D. C. Colombo, 34,065. Res judicata-Partition action-Decision as to title-No interlocutory decree- Right of party to raise a claim for compensation for improvements- failure to raise plea at earliest opportunity-Estoppel. In a partition action the District Court held that the plaintiff was entitled to five-sixths share of the land as against the defendant, who claimed title to the whole of it by prescription. The Court declined to adjudicate on the title to the remaining one-sixth without hearing the other heirs of the original owner from whom the plaintiff claimed and directed that they be noticed to appear. No interlocutory decree was entered. After the case had gone up in appeal and been remitted to the District Court, the defendant moved to amend his answer by putting in a claim for compensation for improvements and a jus retentionis, which was allowed. 151 Held , (on a plea of res judicata raised by the plaintiff at a subsequent stage of the action) that the claim for compensation was not barred by the interlocutory order passed in the proceedings. Where a party in whose favour a decision is given fails to raise at the earliest opportunity the question of estoppel per rent adjudicatam he is deemed to have waived his right to plead it. T HIS was an action instituted by the plaintiff to parition a land in which he claimed title to 5/6 share and allotted the remaining 1/6 share to the defendant. It was common ground that the land originally belonged to one Ahamado Lebbe Arisi Marikar, who gifted 5/6 share to his son Sali Hadjiar subject to a fidei commissum in favour of the latter's children. Sali Hadjiar died leaving two sons who conveyed the land to the plaintiff. The defendant claimed the entirety of the land on the ground that Sali Hadjiar became entitled to it by inheritance, the deed of gift being inoperative under the Muslim law. He alleged that the property was mortgaged by Sali Hadjiar and in execution against him it was purchased by the mortgagees, who sold it to him. The District Judge held that the deed of gift was good and that plaintiff was entitled to 5/6 share. He was not disposed to decide the title to the remaining 1/6 without hearing the other heirs of Arisi Marikar. The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court who reversed the judgment of the District Judge, but on an appeal to the Privy Council the judgment of the original Court was restored. After the case was remitted to the District Court, the defendant moved to amend the answer by putting in a claim for compensation for improvements and jus retentionis. The plaintiff at the same time moved for the appointment of a receiver. The defendant's amendment was allowed and no appeal was taken from the order. Thereafter the case went up in appeal on the question of the appointment of a receiver and was remitted to the District Court where the plaintiff raised the question whether the defendant was entitled to ask for a further right of way. The learned District Judge held that the interlocutory order barred the right to compensation and all other subsequent claims. H. V. Perera (with him J. A. T. Perera ), for defendant, appellant.-Parties went to trial on two preliminary issues of law. If they were decided against the plaintiff his action would have been dismissed and further proceedings would have been unnecessary. The Judge decided only those two issues. No interlocutory decree was entered. The plaintiff was not even declared entitled to 5/6. Even after interlocutory decree there is nothing to prevent a party making a further claim. It is only the final decree that wipes out a party's right. In this case there was not even an interlocutory decree. Moreover, the amendment of the pleadings by adding a claim for compensation had been allowed. The amendment would date back to the date of the answer and the effect would be that the claim for compensation had been raised in the answer. Allowing the amendment does not mean allowing the claim but the claim must be inquired into. The practice is always to allow amendment of pleadings on terms. No appeal was taken from that order but the order appointing a receiver was appealed from. That appeal was allowed by the Supreme 152 Court on the footing that the defendant was entitled to make a claim for compensation and to a jus retentionis. This objection of the plaintiff was really inspired by some remarks of the Judge who disallowed the application to claim a servitude. No objection was taken when the application to amend the pleadings by adding a claim for compensation was allowed. N. E. Weerasooria (with him E. B. Wikramanayake and Siri Perera ), for plaintiff, respondent.-The issues were not preliminary issues. The parties had put their whole case before the Court. The system of pleadings applies to partition actions. See section 2 of the Partition Ordinance. The parties are required to state their shares or interests and also the improvements made on the property. If a party fails to make a claim he is concluded by the decree. An interlocutory decree in a partition action is res judicata as between the parties to it. There is here an adjudication on the plaintiff's rights. It allows him an absolute 5/6. The entering up of a decree is a purely ministerial act. What is res judicata is the finding of the Judge. Besides there is provision in the Partition Ordinance for separating the plaintiff's share and leaving the rest of the land unallotted. See section 7. The judge had no right to allow the amendment of the pleadings. Even if he had, it is not too late to take objection now. Allowing the amendment of the pleadings does not mean allowing the claim. It can be objected to now on the ground that it is barred by the interlocutory decree. If a party is allowed to amend his pleadings by making fresh claims at any stage of the action there would be no end to the proceedings. H. V. Perera , in reply. Cur. adv. vult. September 18, 1936. SOERTSZ A.J. - This is an appeal from two orders made by the District Judge on February 19 and 21, 1935, disallowed the defendant-appellant's claim for compensation for improvements and for a jus retentionis in respect of the premises described in the schedule of the plaint filed in this case, refusing to allow the defendant to amend his answer to claim a right of way and directing that a decree for partition be entered allotting 5/6 to the plaintiff and 1/6 to the defendant. The District Judge held that the claim for compensation and for a jus retentionis could " not be sustained because of the order made on July 15,1930 ". The material facts are as follows: The plaintiff instituted these proceedings to obtain a partition of the premises referred to. He allotted 5/6 to himself and the other 1/6 to the defendant. The plaintiff and the defendant were agreed that one Ahamado Lebbe Marikar Aripi Marikar Hadjiar was at one time the owner of the land in question. He by deed P4 of the year 1904 gifted 5/6 of the premises to his son Sali Hadjiar subject to the conditions and restrictions that he the donor should have (1) the right and power to cancel and revoke the gift; (2) the right to take, receive and enjoy the profits, issues and income of the premises gifted during his lifetime; (3) that on his, death the premises should go to and be possessed by his son the donee subject to a fidei commissum in favour of his children. Sali Hadjiar died in 1929 leaving two sons who by deed P2 of 1927 had conveyed these 5/6 to the plaintiff for a sum of Rs. 15,000. 153 The defendant filed answer setting up a claim to the entirety of the property on the ground that on the death of Arisi Marikar his son Sali Hadjiar became entitled to it by inheritance, that he by mortgage bond D11 of 1913, hypothecated it, that the mortgagees put the bond in suit and bought, it themselves at the execution sale on D2 of 1916, and sold it to the defendant on D1 of 1929. It would appear that in this chain of title the deed of gift P4 was disregarded in the view that it was obnoxious to the Muslim law regarding gifts. When the case came for hearing on June 26, 1930, although this was a partition action, the parties stated the points in dispute between them in the form of issues. These issues were : (1) Did the deed P4 convey any rights to the donee inasmuch as delivery or seisin did not pass to the donee at the date of the execution of the deed ? (2) Has the defendant acquired title by prescription as against the plaintiffs ? (3) Is it open to the defendant to plead that no title passed on the deed of gift P4 inasmuch as the defendant's own title is founded on that deed of gift ? The trial Judge delivered his judgment on July 15, 1930, holding that the deed of gift P4 was a good and valid deed, and that it conveyed 5/6 to the donee subject to the fidei commissum. With regard to the other 1/6, the Judge said that he was not disposed to decide the issue without " the other heirs of Arisi Marikar being before the Court". He directed that they be noticed to appear and state their claims, if any, to that share. The defendant appeal to this Court, and on that appeal the judgment of the trial Judge was reversed and the plaintiff's action was dismissed with costs. The plaintiff then appealed to His Majesty in Council with the result that the order of the District Judge was restored. The plaintiff, thereupon, took steps to notice the heirs of Arisi Marikar in accordance with the direction given by the trial Judge on July 15, 1930. The defendant on June 20, 1933, moved to amend his answer by inserting a claim for compensation for improvements effected by him and his predecessors in title and for a jus retentionis on that account. The plaintiff took this opportunity to ask that a receiver be appointed for the premises of which the defendant had been in possession from the date of his purchase. Order was made on October 23, 1933, allowing both applications. The trial Judge, another one, held that because " interlocutory decree had not been entered in the action the defendant is entitled to amend his answer". With regard to a receiver, he held that in the circumstances disclosed it would be prudent to appoint one. There was no appeal from the order allowing the amendment proposed But the defendant preferred an appeal against the order appointing a receiver and this Court by its judgment of June 29, 1934, set aside that order. In the course of his judgment, Akbar J. said, " The main reason given by the learned District Judge for his order is that the defendant is now enjoying a large rental and it may turn out that he would fail, ultimately to prove any title to the premises. But the defendant has put in a claim for improvements and he has not as yet had an opportunity 154 to prove his claim. As a bona fide improver he is entitled to a jus retentionis of the property until his claim, when proved, is paid. The effect of the order appealed from is to deprive him of the right to retain possession of the premises which he claims ". When the case went back to the District Court for hearing, the defendant moved to amend the answer further and to claim a right of way over the land sought to be partitioned to another property of his. This motion came up for consideration on February 19, 1935, and the trial Judge, a third one now, disallowed the motion. In the course of his order the Judge said, " In my opinion also the order of the Court declaring plaintiff entitled to 5/6 of the premises without reservation is binding on the defendant and defendant cannot now take away from the effects of that order ". Directly this order was pronounced, the plaintiff's Counsel appears to have taken his cue from it to raise certain other questions. They were : (1) In view of the order made declaring the plaintiff entitled to 5/6 of the premises, is it open to the defendant to make a claim for compensation ? (2) Assuming that Sali Hadjiar made improvements the right to compensation not having been transferred to the trustees of Rodrigo's will or by them to the defendant, is it open to the defendant to claim compensation ? (3) As Sali Hadjiar was a fiduciary in respect of 5/6 of the premises, was the defendant entitled as successor in title to claim compensation for improvements made with respect to that 5/6 ? (4) The claim for repairs now made by the defendant is the subject matter of action No. 41,220 in which the plaintiff claimed mesne profits and defendant set up this claim ; that being so, should the claim be considered in this action ? The trial Judge considered the arguments addressed to him on both sides and delivered judgment on February 21, 1935, directing that a decree for partition be entered on the basis that plaintiff was entitled to 5/6 and the defendant to 1/6 of the land and buildings. He held that the claim for compensation and a jus retentionis could " not be sustained because of the order of July 15, 1930 ". Some idea of the grounds upon which the Judge held that view can be gathered from observations made by him in the course of the two orders made by him. In the order of February 19, 1935, he says, " In my opinion also the order of the Court declaring plaintiff entitled to 5/6 of the premises without reservation is binding on the defendant and the defendant cannot now take away from the effect of that order. For over half a century pleadings have been a feature of every partition action .... and parties were held to be bound by the order made in their presence. I do not think that the fact that a formal decree has not been entered any obstacle to my holding the defendant bound by the order already made". Again in the order of February 21 he says, " Issues were framed with all the particularity with which they would have been framed in an action for declaration of title. Presumably, the parties presented the whole of their cases for adjudication and but for the fact that the Court had some doubt as to whether it should not give the heirs of Arisi Marikar an opportunity of meeting the claim based on prescriptive possession, an interlocutory 155 decree would have been entered The Court did decide the points in dispute between the parties then before it, and reserved a dispute which concerned parties who were not before it. In partition cases two decrees are entered; what is called the interlocutory decree and the final decree .... It is not usual therefore to enter an interlocutory decree, if after certain points have been decided, Something more remains to be done. But it has never in my experience . . . . . come across a case where once the rights of a party have been adjudicated upon, that party sought to bring a fresh claim thereafter merely because some third party's rights have not been adjudicated upon". In view of the requirements of section 4 of the Partition Ordinance " the Court examines the titles of all the parties and the extent of their shares or interests .... so that the attention of the Court is not confined to merely the question of title. The entering of the interlocutory decree is purely a ministerial act, and if in this case the Court had seen fit to leave 1/6 of the land unallotted, the Court might have entered a decree allotting 5/6 to the plaintiff ". The learned Judge does not expressly state the legal principle or principles on which he rests his conclusion that the order of July 15, 1930, prevents the defendant from making the claims he has set up in his amendments to his answer. It is, therefore, by a collation such as I have made of passages in the orders delivered by the Judge that it is possible to infer the legal principles upon which he purported to act. Those principles appear to be the principle of res judicata, and the principle that orders made in the course of a case bind the parties to them. It is upon these principles, at any rate, that the respondent's Counsel relied to support the orders appealed from. With regard to the question of res judicata, speaking precisely, one cannot describe as res judicata a case which has not terminated. The decision invoked for a plea of res judicata must be " a final judicial decision pronounced by a judicial tribunal having competent jurisdiction over the cause or matter in litigation and over the parties thereto ". As Hukum Chand puts it on page 34 of his treatise on Res Judicata, " It is necessary, however, that the decision must have been in another suit, as the doctrine of res judicata has no application to decisions in a former stage of the same suit, though an analogous principle applies in such cases, and having similar effect is sometimes spoken of as res judicata". Obviously, this case had not terminated at the time the Judge made the orders with which we are concerned on this appeal, for he made those orders on submissions made to him on the day on which this case had been fixed for trial, and what is more, at the end of the second order he directed that a decree be entered, and the decree that could have been entered upon that direction was only an interlocutory decree. Clearly the case was pending. It is still pending. Now it is only the wide scope of a plea of res judicata that involves not only matters adjudicated upon between the parties, but also matters which could and should have been litigated. Mr. Weerasooria, if I may say so, was quite correct when he submitted that section 4, as pointed out by the trial Judge, called for a full inquiry on all the matters in dispute between 156 the parties regarding title, shares, and interests, and I think it is clear that in cases where after inquiry a decree has been entered terminating the litigation between the parties thereto, that decree will bind them both with regard to the questions actually litigated and questions which could have been litigated. Nemo debet bis vexari. In this case, there was no decree. Even if it is correct to say that the peculiar character of a partition suit which provides for two decrees in one case, justified the grafting of a modification on the passage I have cited from Hukum Chand " that res judicata has no application to decisions in a former stage of the same suit", and that the interlocutory decree in a partition case should be regarded not as " a decision in a former stage ", but as in effect " a decision in another suit", on the ground that the proceedings up to the stage of interlocutory decree should be considered one suit, and proceedings thereafter, up to the time when final decree is entered, another suit, I still find myself confronted with the difficulty that there was no decree whatever in this case till an interlocutory decree was entered dated February 19, 1935, on the direction given by the Judge in the order appealed from. I do not think it possible to surmount that difficulty in this case by saying that the entering of the interlocutory decree was " a purely ministerial act" and implying thereby that a clerk in the Court, might at that stage, have entered an interlocutory decree. The order gave him no authority to enter a decree nor could he have found in the order sufficient material for entering a proper decree. The Judge had moreover expressly reserved further consideration of matters involved in the case. With regard to the Judge's observation that " if in this case the Court had seen fit to leave 1/6 of the land unallotted, the Court might have entered a decree allotting 5/6 to the plaintiff "; such a course, although occasionally followed, is not in accordance with the provisions of the Partition Ordinance. The Ordinance does not contemplate a piecemeal entering up of an interlocutory decree. Section 7 of the Ordinance to which Mr. Weerasooria referred provides for a special case, the case of a partition of the share of an applicant without affecting the shares of other co-owners who express their willingness to possess their share? in common. But the point is that the Court had not seen fit to enter or to give directions for the entering of such a decree. I am unable to agree with the learned Judge's interpretation of the order of the 15th of July when he says " On the 15th July, plaintiff had been declared entitled to 5/6 without reservation". What the order of that date found in clear terms was " that the deed did convey the land to the donee subject to the restrictions set out in the deed ". The order went on to say " I, therefore, hold against the defendant on this issue as well. But this holding applies only to the 5/6 of the land which was subject to the fidei commissum and which is claimed by the plaintiff ". As Mr, H. V. Perera argued, there was still far to go or at least a part of the journey left, before the plaintiff could reach his 5/6. He had to make good his claim to that share by connecting himself with the donee of the deed. There was, no doubt, evidence on record on which it could have been found that he had established that connection. But, the learned Judge had not so found and to my mind, the argument that 157 because the Judge could have so found, he must be assumed to have so found is devoid of merit. It was quite open to the Judge to call for further evidence on any point before he made his order allotting the shares. I am, therefore, of opinion that there is no decree in this case upon which a plea of res judicata can be sustained. Coming next to examine how the matter stands on the basis not of res judicata, but of a finding between the parties at a certain stage of the suit I would make the preliminary observation that the scope of such a finding is limited to the matter actually found. It does not include other matters which could have been submitted for adjudication, although it does include all the grounds upon which the particular matter in issue could have been supported. For instance, in this case the defendant contended that the deed of gift was bad because being a Muslim gift it postponed the donee's right of possession. That contention having failed, it was not open to the defendant to re-agitate the validity of the gift on some other ground, say for the reason that there was no acceptance of the gift, if that were, in fact, the case. Here, the finding given by the District Judge was that the deed of gift was governed by the Roman-Dutch law and that it was valid subject to the fidei commissum which was created by it. The question of the defendant's right to compensation and to a jus retentions was altogether unconnected with the question of the validity of the deed and of the defendant's prescriptive title. There is another view of the matter to which I would make passing reference. Assuming that the defendant's contention is correct that the question of compensation cannot be considered because the matter is res judicata or because there is a binding order which prevents the defendant from setting it up, in my opinion, the plaintiff should have put those grounds forward when the defendant moved to amend his pleadings. He did not do so. He, in effect, waived them and there is the dictum of Coke that " estoppel against estoppel setteth the matter at large ". Spencer Bower commenting on this says at page 161 of his book on Res Judicata " The ordinary type of cross-estoppel by representation is that which arises upon the omission of the party in whose favour the decision was given to raise, at the earliest opportunity, the question of estoppel per rem judicatam, by pleading, objection to evidence, or otherwise, whereby he is deemed to have estopped himself from raising, or to have waived his right to raise, the question of res judicata once and for all". In this case the plaintiff acquiesced in the order allowing the amendment. The defendant appealed from the order appointing a receiver and this Court in dealing with that appeal dealt with it on the footing that there was a question of the defendant's right to compensation and to a jus retentionis properly awaiting decision. I would, therefore, hold that the defendant is entitled to have the question of compensation and of the jus retentionis considered on the merits. With regard to the claim for a right of way, it is true the amendment was sought at a very late stage, but it has been repeatedly held by this Court that " however negligent or careless the first omission, and however late, the proposed amendment, the amendment should be 158 allowed if it can be made without injustice to the other side". See Seneviratna v. Candappa [1 (1917) 20 N. L. R. 60. ] and Cassim Lebbe v. Natchiya [2 (1918) 21 N. L. R. 205.]. I would, therefore, allow that amendment too, but make order that the defendant is not entitled, in any event, to the costs of that amendment. The orders of the District Judge dated February 19 and 21, 1935, are set aside. The defendant appellant is entitled to the costs of appeal and to the costs of February 21, in the Court below. ABRAHAMS C.J.-I agree. Appeal allowed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1936/63.html