Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 






t 



EEPOETS 



OF 



OASES ARGUED AND DETERMINED 



IN THE 



SUPREME COURT OF 

CEYLON 



SITTING IN APPEAL 



nURING THE YEARS 1882-8 3. 



BY 

H. L. WENDT, 

ADVOCATE. 



:=^ 



COLOMBO: 

THB '^CXTLON EXAMINER" PB.SSS CO., LIMITED. 



1884, 



JUDGES OF THB SUPREME COURT 

DVEIKO THE PbSIOD 0(HCF|LIS1B IN TSI& YOLUUv 

O 

The Hon» Richa»i> Catlet, Chief Jastice* 
The Hon. Loyell Bub€Hete Clabence. 
The Hon. Hekrt Dias. 

The Hon. Lotell Bubcheit Clakekcs^ (Acting) Chief Justioav 

The Hon. Henry Dias. 

The Hon. Samuel G&enieb (Actin^)^ 

The Hon. Jagobus Fetbu» Be Wet, (Aeting^ CMef Jofitkatv 
The Hon. Lovell Bubchext Clabence. 
The Hon. Ejknby Bias. 

The Hob. Bbuce LecKHABT Bubnetibs^ Chief Justice.. 
The Hon. Loyell Bubchetx Clabeiscb. 
The Hon. Henby Bias. 

The Hon. Bbuce Locehabt Bitonsids, Chief Jastice*. 

The Hon. Heioly Bias. 

The Hon. Abchtbalb Campbell LjkWBm ( Actiag). 



QUEENS ABTOCATE. 

The Hon. Bkb^cb Lockhabt Bubnside. 

The Hon. Charles Lambert FBBi>iBAJ7D& (Acting^- 

The Hoiu Francis Fleming.. 



MEMORANDA. 



7th February, 1882. Upon the Hon. R. Caylet, C. J., leaving 
the Island owing to illness, the Hon. L. B. Clauence, 
Senior Paisne Justice, was sworn in as Acting 
Chief Justice, the Hon. H. Dias, Junior Puisne Justice, 
as Senior Puisne Justice, and S. Gbeniee, Esquire, 
Advocate, as Junior Puisne Justice. 

29th May, 1882. The Hon. J. P. db "Wet was sworn in as 
Acting Chief Justice, upon which the appointment 
of the Hon. S. Gseniea ceased. 

2l6t May, 1883. The Hon. B. L. Burnsede was sworn in as 
Chief Justice, upon which the appointment of the 
Hon. J. P. DE Wet ceased. 

12th December, 1883. The Hon. L. B. Clarence, Senior 
Puisne Justice, going to England on leave, A. C. 
Lawrie, Esquire, District Judge of Kandy, was 
sworn in as a Puisne Justice. 

19th April, 1880. The Hon. B. L. Burnside was sworn in as 
Queen's Advocate. 

» 

12th July, 1882. C. L. Ferdinands, Esquire, Deputy Queen's 
Advocate, was sworn in as Acting Queen's Advocate 
upon the Hon. B. L. Burnside proceeding to England 
on leave. 

5th July, 1883. The Hon. F. Fleming was sworn in as Queen's 
Advocate. 



LIST or CASES 

REPOETED IN THIS VOLUME, 



o • 

DISTRICT COURT (CIVIL). 




Chilaw 


, Page 


Kandy — C6ntd. 


Page 


23,482 


... 263 


87,506 


... 123 


Colombo 




87.824 


... 227 


30(8pl) ... 


... 49 


87,943 


... 232 


1,950 


... 295 


88,445 


... 106 


77,900 


... 78 


88,489 


... 244 


79,606 


... 172 


88,616 


... 226 


85,069 


... 158 


89,110 


... 331 


85,440 


... 341 


89,562 


... 285 


85,584 


... 84 


89,797 


... 253 


85,853 


... 241 


89,917 


... 188 


86,981 


... 324 


90,056 


... 268 


86,619 


... 329 


90,099 


... 25 


86,645 ... 


... 249 


91,573 


... 278 


87,285 


... 74 


Kegalla 




Gatj.b 




4,026 


... 16 


46,340 


... 209 


Matara 




48,336 


... 315 


30,171 


... 211 


Kaltjtara 




31,034 


... 122 


35,733 


... 21 


32,285 


... 224 


36,176 


... 7 


32,371 


... 83 


Kandt 




Negombo 




81,309 


... 81 


12,730 


... 383 


86,520 


... 217 


Ratnapuba 




87,172 


... 213 


1,828 


... 6 


DISTI 


IICT COURT (CRIMINAL). 

• 




Colombo 


Page 


KuBXINEGATiA 


Page 


ODD ... ... 


... 67 


2,036 


... 103 


Galle 




Negombo 




11,075 ... ... 


... 129 


oo7 


... 67 


DISTRI 


CT COURT (INSOLVENCY). 


- 


Colombo 


Page 


Kandy 


Page 


1,216 


... 205 


886 


... 318 


a 


OURT OF 


REQUESTS. 




Balapitiya 


Page 


Colombo 


Page 


29,712 


... 34 


Z o\) ... ... 


... 343 


Batticaloa 




30,492 


... 41 


16,209 


... 297 


32,332 


... 100 



LIST OF CASES 

COURT OP REQUESTS— ron^i. 



Colombo— coti^d. 


Page 


32,334 


... 304 


00|\/OfS • • • • • ■ 


... 182 


36,425 


... 307 


Galle 




60,977 


... 234 


Kandt 




19,410 


... 11 


20,351 


... 260 


21,032 


.. 313 



Matalb 
3,747 

KuwARA Elita 
8,387 


Page 
... 293 

... 30^ 


Pussellawa 

J-il*. A.» ... ... 


... 144 


Tkincomalib 

OOfOOO ... ... 


... 276 



POLICE COURT. 



Batticaloa 


Page 


Gampola 


Page 


lt7,71o ... ... 


... 337 


3,477 


Chavaoachchxbi 




Halduumttlla 




0,OOi7 


... 154 


• . • • • * 


... 33^ 


Chilaw 




Mannab 




14,398 


... 237 


5,786 ... .., 


... 271 


Colombo 




Kegombo 




6,310 


... 246 


51, OOd ... ... 


... 281 


7,874 


... 93 


51,756 ... 


... 28a 


DlMBULA 




Panadujia 




6,560 


... 102 


4,275 


... 6a 


JUSTICE OF THE PEACE. 




Colombo 




Rig© 




2,994 


• ■ • • • • 


... «Ot7 




3,111 


• « • » • • 


44 




BENCH OP MA.GISTBATES. 




TkAUDY 




P>«e 




17,820 


• • V • • • 


• •• ••• ••• V w 




17,879 


• • « • • • 


• •« ••• 9 m • JmJmX^ 





CROWN CASES RESERVED. 

The Queen ▼. Buye Appu (2nd Kandj Sess., 47)... 
The Queen y. Hendrick (2nd Badalla Sess., 1) ... 
The Queen y. Peris Appu (4th Colombo Se8S.» 4) 
The Queen y. l/ranelM (1st Galle Sess.) 



Pager 

... im 

... 143 
... 155 
... 1 



Re Cesast 



»•• 



it« 



... las 



EBRATUM. 
Page 304, headuote, for GlabencE) J. read Burnside, C. J. 



'k 






REPORTS OF CASES 

Aaguxd aub Determined 
i:^ THE SUPREME COURT OF CEYLON. 



ytk July, 1882. 

Present— Db Wet, A. C. J., Clabbncs and Dias, JJ. ^ 

Crown Case Rbserved. 

The QuBSN V. Ubanelis and seven others. ^ f^'<^ Ci^t , 

Assault on Policeman in the execution of his duty -^Absence 
of count for Assault at Common Law — Conviction of Assault 
at Common Law, 

The defendants were iniicted for cutting' and wounding two policemen 
while in the execution of their duty* The jury, under the judge's 
direction, found that, (i) if the policemen were acting in the execution of 
their duty, the ist defendant was guilty on the indictment, and the ind, 
3rd, i;th and 8th defendants were guilty of assault and battery on a 
police constable in the execution of his duty, and the 4th, 6th and 7th 
defendants were not guilty; but (2) if the policemen were not acting in 
the lawful execution of their duty, the ist defendant was guilty of cuttmg 
and wounding, and the rest were not guilty. 

Held, that, it being admitted at the bar that the policemen could not 
be regarded as having been in the lawful execution of their duty, the 
convicuon of assault at Common Law could not be sustained. 

This was a case reserved, on a question of law* hy Mr. 
Berwick, as Commissioner of Assize, from the First Crimi* 
nal Sessions of the Supreme Court at Galle for 1882. 

The charge was that the prisoners, on the a 8th November 
i88i> ** in and upon one Mathes and upon one Omar 
Abdulla, then being poh'ce constables in the execution of 
their duty, did make an assault and them the said Mathes 
and Omar Abdulla did beat* stab, cut, wound and ilL treat 
and other wrongs to the said Mathes and the said Omar 
Abdulla then did to the great damage of the said Mathes 
and Omar Abdulla.*' 



The substance of the recitals in the account submitted 
by the Commissioner for the decision of the Full Court was 
as follows : 

At the trial on the 19th May, it appeared that Mathes 
and Abdulla were policemen, and were in fact maimed and 
wounded by certain of the prisoners^ when attempting 
(while not in uniform) to arrest the 4 th and 7th accused 
upon a warrant signed by Mr. Mason, a J. P. for Galle, 
which ran as follows : 

The Ctueen, on the complaint of Ukwattege Tettu of Uda^ 

vrelapitiy|i.«« ••• ••• Complainant. 

Vs. 
Obederis ••« ««• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ,.^ Accused; 

To the Superintendent of Police, S. Province, Galle. 

Take into your custody the bodies of Gammadegodde Lianege 
Obederis and (2) Kalagamakoralage Erolts boib t)f Udawelapitiya 
charged with aggra\ated assault ami bring them before me or other 
competent J. P. forthwith. Given under my hand at Galle this 26tb 
day of October 1881. 

J. D. Mason, 

J. P. for Galle- 

This warrant bore the indorsement ** to be executed by 
the police under my command," signed by Captain Graham* 
Superintendent of Police, and dated 27th October i88i- 

The question reserved was, " whether at the time of 
execution or attempted execution of the above warrant they 
were in the lawful execution of their duty as Police Con« 
stables." 

It was admitted at the trial that ni> Police force had been 
established* under Ordinance 16 of 1865, at Udawelawitiya. 

The Judge told the Jury that, if the persons injured were 
not lawfully authorized to arrest the accused, the 4th and 7th 
accused (against whom the warrant was directed) were en** 
titled to use as much force as was reasonably necessary to 
resist their own arrest, and that the other accused (being 
the father, mother and brothers of the 4th and 7th accused) 
were entitled to use reasonable force in aiding their relatives ; 
but that, if one or more of the accused used deadly weapons 
or more violence, otherwise, than was neciessary to avoid 
their arrest, they would be guilty of assault and battery or 
aggravated assault, according to the amount of violence 
used. On the other hand, if the persons injured had been 
in the lawful execution of their duty, then such of the 



Accused as had cut thena, and those who had abetted thetn, 
would be guilty oa the indictment. 

The Jury after consideration returned the following spe^ 
cial verdict : If the Court thought the constables had been 
in the execution of their duty, then the ist accused was 
guilty of cutting a constable while in the execution of his 
doty, the 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 8th accused guilty of assault and 
battery on a police constable in the execution of his duty, 
and 4th, 6th and 7th accused not guilty j but if the Court 
thoDght the constables were not in the execution of their duty, 
then the ist accused was guilty of cutting and wounding, 
and the rest of the accused not guilty. Then, in order to 
hatre the question argued on a case reserved, the Commis^ 
sioner told the Jury to assume that the constables were in 
the execution of their duty, and return a definite verdict. 
On this the Jury returned the same verdict as they had done 
previously on this assumption. The Judge then remanded 
the prisoners till the ensuing sessions at Galle, the ist 
prisoner finding bail in Rs. 500 and the rest in Rs. 100 
each 3 making this difference, because the Commissioner 
thought there *' was not a high probability that the convic- 
tion of the latter would be sustained." As regards the ist 
accused the Jury thought he had used unnecessary and 
excessive violence in rescuing his brothers, and he therefore 
stood convicted of cutting and wounding in either view of 
the law, the decision of which would only affect the amount 
of ptmishment. 

Ferdinands (Acting a. A.) appearing for the Crown, now 
admitted that the conviction for cutting constables while in 
the execution of their duty could not stand for two reasons : 
(i) Because the constables were acting outside their province 
and district, and (2) because the warrant was not directed 
by name or designation to the particular persons who sought 
to enforce it i but he contended that the first verdict of the 
jury should stand, which convicted the first accused of 
cutting and wounding, and acquitted the rest. Further^ the 
2nd and 3rd verdicts were worthless and of no effect, 
inasmuch as a jury could give but one verdict under our 
Ordinance, guilty or not guilty, and, once their first verdict 
had been accepted and recorded, they were functz officio. 
He contended not so much for this particular case, as for 
the principle involved, and would only press for the punish- 
ment of the first accused. 



4 

. Grenier, for the prisoners, contra —The Ordinance No, 1 1 
. of 1868, section 44, directs the Supreme Court to consider 
and dispose of any question of law reserved by one of the 
Judges for the consideration of the Collective Court. Here 
the only question reserved is* whether at the tin e they were 
assaulted the constables were acting in the execution of their 
duty. It having been admitted now at the bar that they 
were not so acting, the prisoners were entitled to be dis" 
charged. There is in the present indictment no second 
count (as there usually is) charging an assault at X!^ommon 
Law, and this Court cannot therefore convict the prisoners 
of that offence. [Clarence, J* — There is a case reported 
in 4 S. C. C. 117, in which Mr. Chief Justice Cayley held 
that, though there was no such count for assault at Common 
Law, the Supreme Court could in appeal set aside the con- 
viction under the Ordinance for resistance and convict of 
the Common Law offence] The Supreme Court did not in 
that case convict without the Common Law count, but they 
amended the plaint (it being a Police Court case) by insert- 
ing that count under the 'large powers of amendment' vested 
by Ordinance in the Supreme Court. But I have not known 
a case in which an indictment was amended as that plaint 
was. R V. Oliver (i) there cited does not quite bear out the 
Chief Justice's position of conviction without count ; for in 
that case the prisoner was charged (i) with assault with 
intent to do grievous bodily harm, and (2) with assault, and 
the jury having found a general verdict of guilty, the con- 
viction was affirmed as on the second count. [ The Chief 
Justice — Just as in an indictment for robbery there are two 
elements, the assault and the theft, and the jury may convict 
of both or either. Clakence, J.— I remember a case tried 
when I was D. Q. A. before Mr. Cayley as Puisne Justice, 
in which on an indictment for conspiracy there were overt 
acts charged which amounted to offences in themselves, and 
at my request the judge directed the jury, that if they 
thought the overt acts proved, but not the conspiracy, they 
shoiild convict of the offences so disclosed. By your con- 
tention that direction would be wrong.] The overt acts 
there were o&ences per se. [Clabencb, J.^Hut the prin. 
ciple is the same as here. The acts of a simple assault 
are the same as of an assault on a constable in the. 

(0 30 L. J., M. C, 12. 



execution of his duty, and where the matter of aggra- 
vatioa is absent the assault still reuains]. I contend 
there is but one verdict in the present case, viz the 
third ; for the first two were hypothetical aad assumed a 
certain state of the law. The judge then decided the law 
definitely and the jury brought in their final verdict, which 
must fall with the validity of the warrant, which was assum« 
ed. The conviction should be quashed. 

Ferdinands, in reply— It was competent for the jury to 
convict of assault simply. [The Chief Justice — But they 
have not done so]. I say they have, [reads first verdict | 
[The Chief Justice — But the Commissioner apparently 
did not accept that as a final verdict]. He did, tor it is 
endorsed on the indictment and signed by Mr Black, the 
foreman. [DiAs, J. — There can be no doubt that the jury 
intended to convict the first accused of assault^ whatever 
the legality of the warrant might be $ but there is the third 
verdict to the contrary]. I treat that as surplusage. 

Their Lordships then delivered judgment as follows : 

The Chief Justice — I am of opinion that the conviction 
cannot stand ; but as I have not looked into the authorities 
I should like to do so, in view of the importance of the case, 
before handing in a written judgment on the following 
points : (i) Whether a jury can find two valid verdicts ; (2) 
Whether the jury having found a second verdict, the first is 
sustainable. My brother Clarence shares with me the 
opinion that the judge did not accept the first verdict;. 

Clarence, J. — On the first point, I find two verdicts 
signed by the foreman. In my opinion the Judge 
declined to accept the first verdict, and the jury acquiesced 
in the refusal by retiring again. The Judge (in order to 
raise the qu&stion) gave the jury what was in effect a mis- 
direction, and they then returned the general verdict now 
under review. If it be conceded that the w-irrant is bad, 
that verdict cannot stand. On the second point, the ques- 
tion of the necessity for a second count, I should like to 
have time to consider. Both points arise here, and the 
decision of either would be sufficient. 

[Grfwitfr— The second point will uot arise if the first be 
held in my favor]. Yes, 

The Chief Justice— It is always advisable to have two 
coaats. There is only one point reserved, and it strikes me 



6 

the Judge had the last verdict in vic^ when he reserved the 
qu' siioi ]. 

DiAS, J.— There is only one verdict, that last taken, and 
the only question is on that verdict— was the warrant good 
or bad ? If it is conceded that it was bad^ there is no course 
but to set aside the veidict. 

Verdict set aside* 



SUPREME COURT IN APPEAL, 

JO/ A and 28ih February, 1882. 

Present— Clarence, A. C, J., Dias, J, 

D. C. \ P. SuMANaALA Unansb and another 
Batnapura, ? v. 

18 i8* i Indur^wa PiADAsSA Unansb. 

District Court reserving judgment —Delivery by yudge in 
open Court --Ordinance 11 0/ i86j, § 75. 

The District Court, after the trial of this case on 25th January 1S81, 
reserved judgment. The judge, having been rem<ivcd to another station^ 
sent his judgment in the case to his successor, who caused it to be read 
in Court by an officer of the Court as the judgment in the case, on 27th 
September 18S1. 

Held, that this coul i not be regarded as the judgment of the District 
Court wiihin the meaning of Ordinance No* 11 of i868. 

The facts sufficiently appear frotu the judgment of the 
Supreme Court* 

Burnside, Q. A., (Ferdinands and Grenier with him) for 
defendant, appellant. 

Van Langenherg {Seneviratne with him) for plaintiff, appel- 
lant. 

(aSth February) Clarence, J.— This is an action by two 
Buddhist priests, who claim by virtue of the will of a deceas** 
ed priest to be entitled to certain property, which is averred 
to be under the *' management of defendant,** who is also a 
priest j and plaintififs pray for an account of rents and profits. 
Deftrndant disputes the plaintiffs' right to the account prayed 
for ; but it is not necessary to enter upon the ground of his 
defence* The case came to a trial or hearing on the 2jth 
January 1881, when the then District Judge [J- E. Smart] 
reserved his judgment. In the meanwhile it appears that t^ 
that gentleman in or about the following April ceased to be 
District Judge of Ratnapura, being removed to another ofiico 



and station. No judgment was delivered In the present 
case until September 1881. when the ex. District Judge 
appears to have forwarded to his successor a draft opinion, 
which that gentleman caused to be read in Oourt by an 
officer of the Court, as the judgment of the Court in the 
case. The first plaintiff and the defendant each desires to 
appeal from that judgment^ and each takes the objection 
that the judgment delivered under the above circumstances 
is not the judgment of the Ratnapura District Court within 
the meaning of the Ordinance 11 of 1868 [§ 75]. We think 
that that is so. 

DiAs, J., concurred. 

8el aside, Proceedings of^^th yanua^ 1881 quashed* 

No costs. 
Proctor for plaintiff appellant, D yayetilleke* 
Proctor for defendant appellant, !furin de Zilva, 



22nd May and Sth June, 1882. 
Present — Dias and GrbnibB) JJ. 

D. C- ^ HSNDRICK 

Kalutara, > v. 

36,176. J Frbdebick. 

Cession of Action — Surety paying off delt^ Cession neces* 
saryjor surety to reach immoveables mortgaged. ^c4-^/rM>'^ *^4^<J 

Plaintiff (a sorety), bringing the amount of the debt into Court' *^ 

prayed in a previous suit that the defendart, the creditor, be decreed to 
accept the money and hand over to plaintiff the deeds hypothecated. 
Defendant drew the money out of Court. Plaintiff's Rule Nisi, calling 
upon defendant to execute in bis favor a cession of action, having been 
discharged, on the ground that his libel was defective, plaintiff brought 
the present action to compel defendant to cede to him his right of action 
against the principal debtor. 

Held, that plai tiff must be taken to have deposited the money con. 
ditiunally on defendant's executing a cession of action. 

Held also, that though the plaintiff could recover the mere money 
debt from the defendant without such cession, it was equitable that 
plaintiff should be given recourse to the mortgage security, which he- 
could not reach (being land) without such cession in writing. - 

Held also, that cession, [if not made the condition of the payment], 
must be claimed within a reasonable time after payment. 

Francisco Fernando was indebted to James VanRooyen 

in the sum of Rs< 100 and interest at 25 per cent, per annum 

upon a mortgage bond dated a^rd May 1^78, the plaintiff 

being surety for Fernando. On ist February 188 1 Van 



8 

Rooyen assigned his bond to the defendant. The plaintiff 
instituted D. C. Kalutara 3 5526 against the defendant 
^alleging a previous tender of the sum due), to compel him 
to receive the sum of Rs. 147*27 then due 00 the bond and 
deliver over to plaintiff the deeds hypothecated with the 
defendant ; but the plaintiff did not distinctly pray that the 
defendant be decreed to execute a cession ofaciion. The 
answer there denied the offer of payment by plaintiff. On 
the 1 8th February 1881 the defendant drew the Rs. 147-27 
deposited in Court. Three months after, the plaintiff called 
upon defendant by Rule Nisi to execute a cession to plain- 
tiff of his right of action against the mortgagor. This rule 
was discharged by the District Judge, who pointed out the 
absence of the necessary prayer in the libel. The plaintiff 
therefore insMtuted the present action on the 7th October 
1 88 1, setting out the above facts, and the tender of a nota*- 
rial cession of action for defendant's signature, and his 
refusal to sign it, and praying that defendant be decreed to 
deliver to plaintiff (concurrently with the hypothecated deeds) 
a sufficient cession of action to enable the plaintiff to recover 
the Rs. 147 27 from the principal debtor ; and in default to 
repay to plaintiff the said sum with interest. The answer 
denied that defendant had now any right of action to cede^ 
and that such cessiou was necessary for the purpose set out 
by plaintiff -, and denied also the tender of the deed for 
signature. 

After evidence heard for the plaintiff the Distiict Judge 
{Worthington) gave the following judgment on 23rd Janu- 
ary i88i : 

** On reading available authorities 1 find plaintiff entitled 
to the assignment and cession of action which he seeks. 
Van Leeuwen (i) points out that the right of action or cession 
of action commences from the time of the obligee being 
satisfied, and the paragraph quoted from Pothier for defen* 
dant does not seem to be applicable, though the following 
one referred to by plaintiffs proctor is so s ill less. Apart 
from law, plaintiff should in equity have relief, and especiaU 
ly against the suspicious be haviour of defendant, whose 
opposition seems to be dictated by a desire to benefit his 
brother-in-law at plaintiff's expense. Let judgment be 
entered up for plaintiff as claimed.' 



»» 



(1) Commentaries, Bk. 4, cap. 4, § 13 et stqq, 
Engl. Trans. (i8jo), pp 332, 333, 



9 

,I)ornhoxst, for the appellant, cited 3 Burge, Col, and For. 
Laus, 545 ; Digest, xlvi. 3. 76, xvii. i. 28 j Code, v. 58. i > 
Van der Linden, (Henry's Translation), p 212 j Voet, ad 
Pand', xlvi. i. 315 3 Lorenz' Reports, pp 235, 319 3 Van- / 

derstraaten's Reports, pp 91, 2^3. 49^ 

Van Langenlerg, for the respondent, cited 3193 D. C* 
Jaffna, (2) -, Austin's Reports, pp 67, 190 j Ramanathan's 
Reports for j 860-62, p 148 ; D- C. Matara, 26949 (3) cited 
and approved in D. C. Badulla, 20 [49, (^4). 

Cur, adis vult- 

(8th June). Dias, J. — By a mortgage bond of 23rd May 
18; 8 the plaintiff bound himself as surety for the dne pay- 
ment of the amount appearing in the bond. On the ist 
February 1881 this boud waa assigned by the obligee to the 
defendant. The plaintiff, as surety, having failed to induce 
the defendant to accept principal and mterest aud assign the 
bond and the mortgage security to plaintiff, on the 9th 
February 1881 filed a libel against the defendant in D. C, 
Kalutara 35526, brought the money (Rs- 147*27) into Court, 
and prayed that the defendant might be decreed to accept 
the same and restore to the plaintiff ** the said documents/* 
whatever that may mean. The object of the plaintiff in 
instituting the case No. 35526 was to compel the defendant 
to receive the debt due on the bond and grant to plaintilf a 
cession of action ', but through some negligence or ignorance 
on the part of plaintiff's proctor the libel was not properly 
framed for the purpose for which it was intended. The 
£esnon of action which the plaintiff claimed from the defen- 
dant is embodied in a deed, which was tendered to the 
defendant for his signature, before the institution of the case 
No. 35526 ', and though the libtl is not properly framed in 
that action, the plaintiff must be taken to have paid the 
money conditionally on the defendant ceding to the plaintiff 
his right of action oh the bond. The defendant filed his 
answer in 355^^ on 17th February 1881, in which he 
denied the plaintiff's offer to pay the debt due on the bond ; 



(2) Moigan's Dig., p 107, para 4^7. 

(^) Civil Minutes ot S. C, Mth June 1875 {Per Morgan, A. C. J. 

Stewart and Cayley, JJ. b'ej Appendix A. 
(4) Civil Minutes of S. C, 17th November 1876. See Appendix A. 



10 

but on 1 8th February the defendant drew the money which 
was deposited in Court ^ and it cannot in fairness be said 
that he received the money unqualifiedly. After the money, 
was withdrawn, the plaintiff's proctor on the a 7th May 
1 88 1 made an irreg4ilar motion^ by which he tried to compel 
defendant to cede to the plaintiff his (the defendant's) right 
of action. This motion was properly rejected by the Dis- 
trict Judge on rpth September i88i. Having thus failed to 
obtain a cession 0/ action in the case 3 552^5, the plaintiff 
instituted this case to compel the defendant to execute la 
favor of plaintiff a cession (faction ; and th« defence relied 
on is, that the debt having been already paid, the defendant 
has nothing to cede, as his right of , action had ended by the 
payment* As a general rule of law, there can be flo doubt 
that when a debt is paid unqualifiedly hj a surety as co- 
obligor, he cannot compel the creditor to give him cesfsioa 
of action for the simple reason, that his right of action was 
put an end to by the payment ; but the writers on Dutch 
Law are not quite agreed as to the time when this cession 
may be claimed, Voet is of opinion, that a surety may 
claim cession at any time after payment (xlvi. i. 30), but this 
I take to mean within a reasonable time. There is a case 
reported in Morgans Digest, p 107, in which the Supreme 
Court held that cession may be claimed after payment j bat 
all the authorities are agreed that if payment is made sub. 
ject to the condition that the receiver should grant to ths 
payer a cession of action^ such cession toay be obtained after 
payment. The case now before us clearly falls under the 
ast mentioned class of cases. As the debt is secured by a 
mortgage, the plaintiff cannot place himself in the position 
of the defendant, which he has a right to do, without a 
cession oj action, duly executed before a notary and witnesses, 
and though the plaintiff may recover the mere money debt 
from the obligor without a cession of action, he cannot reach 
the mortgage security without such cession, and it is in^equi- 
table that the defendant should, be allowed to deprive the 
plaintiff of this right. The object of the defendant in 
resisting the plaintiff's claim of cession is obvious. The 
land mortgaged by the bond appears to have been purchased 
by the defendant's brother Jn-law, and what the defendant 
wants to do now is, as the District Judge puts it, to benefi 
his brother in-law at the plaintiff's expense. 



II 

The }udgmeat appealed froin is right, and mast be 
affirmed. 

G&iNiiR, J.,.cone«irred« 

AffivTned* 
Proctor for the A ppellant, 2>. de Silva^ 

Proetor for the Respondent* ^S". R* Fonseka^ 



^oth June and i$th July, 1882. 
Present— Db Wbt, A. C. J., Clarbncb and Dias, JJ. 
C. R. % Sangebayalo 



Kandj, \ 
19,4.10, J 



Gray. 



Qaitle damage feasant^ Custody of cattle stixed'^ Publicum 
Stabulum — apportionment of damages^ 

A herd of plaintifiTs cattle bad on several occasions trespassed oir 
defendant's land and done damage, and one bead of this herd w^s 
seized damage feasant and detained by defendant. Plaintiff, havings 
tendered Rs« 2.50 (as the amount of damage done on tbe day of seizure 
by the animal seized), which was accepted as part payment and the cow 
not released, sued to recover bis animal. Defendant claimed right to 
detain it till payment of the full amount of damages. 

Btldt that there was no publicum sttdruUifn, or public pound, in Ceylon^ 
and that defendant was ehtitled to detain the trespassing cattle in hia- 
own custody. 

Seld also, that it was for the plftiatifPy at tbe wrong.doer, to appori 
tion tbe damages among the several head of trespassing cattle ; and 
that, proof oa tnis point being wanting, everything would be presumed 
against himr 

The plaratfff sned the defendant to recover Rs. 30, the 

value of a cow belonging to plaintiff, which defendant un-r 

lawfully detained. The defendant pleaded not guilty and 

averred the cow had been impocmded while trespassing on 

Dodangalla Estate, of which defendant was superintendent* 

and claimed the right to detain it till payment of Bs. 10, the 

amount of snch damages,"which som the defendant prayed 

plaintiff might be condemned to pay. 

The Commissioner (Ashmore) gave judgment as follows : 
'* In this case the judgment was postponed to enable Mr. 
Swan, who appears for the plaintiff, to quote to the Court 
authorities on the subject of distress damage feamnt^ 

'* With regard to the facts of the case, there is some dis« 
pQte as to the amount of damage,^ but I understand it '^ 



\ 



12 

scarcely disputed that plaintiff's herd of cattle did trespass 
on the land of the defendant, and did do damage. There 
is some contradiction between defendant and his witness, 
Hami, on the subject; which I think arose from an intention 
on Hami's part to exaggerate as^far as he could the laxity of 
the plaintiff in looking after his cattle. But it seems to be 
undoubtedly the case that all the damage was done within 
the time of Mr. Gray's two visits, that is within four days of 
the time when this cow was caught. The defendant's wit^ 
ness, Muniandy, a fairly intelligent Tamil, swore that he 
szvf the cattle in the clearino: every day for 3 or 4 daysi the 
same herd presumably including the same cow. On the day 
when defendant visited the land he found the plaintiff's herd, 
the same herd, trespassing. One cow was seized then and 
there and the others got away, 

" Plaintiff made a^ender of Rs. 2,i;o as the damage done, 
which defendant accepted, as he says, in part payment only. 
There can be no doubt as to the damage being considerable, 
for the defendant swears that he had to re.plant the clearing 
in great part, and there is no reason to disbelieve him, and 
the sum of Rs^ 2.50 is an absurd estimate of the damage. 
The assessment on which plaintiff lays stress seems to have 
been carried on in a '' hole and corner" kind of way without 
notice to defendant, and this Court can place no credit in it> 
the damage, absurdly enough, having been pointed out by 
the plaintiff. Plaintiff's claim is that the defendant must 
return the cow as he has no right to detain it, after his 
share of damage, covered by Rs. 2. jo, is paid ; and he sues 
defendant for the cow or its value. The defendant answers 
that he has a right to detain the cow and did so detain it 
until all damages, Bs. 10, done by plaintiff's herd be paid 
him, and he claims damages Rs* 10 in reconvention. Mr. 
Swan for plaintiff quotes Addison on Torts, cap. z, sec. 2, of 
distress damage feasant, to the effect that distress must be 
taken at the time dam^e is done 3 and further, '* if many 
cattle are doing daraage> a man cannot take one of them as 
a distress for the whole damage, but he may distrain one 
for its own damage ;" and further quotes C. R. Galle 25,177, 
Crowther, p. tig, as to the principle on which that cow's 
damage should be estimated. With all respect for the author 
rity of Addison I cannot think that if A's herd of 20 cattle 
trespass on B*s land and B is able to seize only one head, he 
is unable to detain it until all damage done by A*s cattle is 



13 

repaid to hlrti ; and can only suppose that Addison refers 
to cattle of different owner?, in which case no doubt the 
theory he puts forward is a sufficiently intelligible one. No 
Cases are there quoted, and it is impossible without that 
assistance to ascertain what he means exactly. Some diffi^ 
calty might arise as to the day on which the full damage 
was done, but it is surely for the plain tiff, whose cattle are 
Caught ac ually doing damage, to separate that damage into 
its specific parts, and not for the defendant who was injured 
by him, or for the court before whom no evidence on the 
point whatever is led. Again, in this action plaintiff does 
not sue for damages for illegal detention, but for the value 
of his cow. Defendant's claim may be taken as a claim in 
reconvention for Rs. lo, which he is clearly entitled to get. 
Put my opinion is that plaintiff must fail and the defendant 
is entitled to keep the cow until^ he is paid. It is ordered 
and decreed that the plaintiff's suit be dismissed with costs. 
And it is further ordered and decreed- that the plaintiff 
do pay the defendant the sum of Rs lo and costs of this 
suit.*' 

Dtyrnhorst for the plaintiff, appellant — (r) A person cannot 
keep cattle, seized damage feasant , in his own custody, but 
roust send them to the publicum stabulum. Voet, ix. i. 35 
GroiiuSf Introd., iii. 38, 11 3 Groenewegen,' De Leg. Ab., ad 
Dig. ix. 2. 30 ', Van Leeuwen, Cens. For., Part i., v. 31. 4 ; 
Id.f Comra. (English Trans) p.49l-; 3 S. C. C, 51. If 
there be no publicum stahulum lo. Ceylon, the only remedy 
is by ordinary action for damages. (2) Once the cattle have 
escaped, they cannot be seizc^d on a subsequent occasion for 
the damage previously done. (3) Where a herd has done 
the damage, one cow cannot be detained till payment of the 
• whole amount, Addison on Torts, chap- vii. sec. 2; 5th Ed., 
pp. 366, 367. As to apportionment of damages amoni^ 
several cattle, C. R. Galle, 25,177. Crowther, p no, Rama* 
nathan, 1863..63, p. 62. (4) Plaintiff's suit to recover his 
cow is dismissed, and though he is decreed to pay the 
defendant Bs. 10, the defendant is not decreed to return the 
cow on receipt of that sum. Further, plaintiff does not get 
credit for the Rs. 2 50 already paid. The damage was done 
on 4 different days, and if points (2) and (3) be held in ' 
plaintiff's favor^ the Rs- 2.50 tendered and accepted is a 
fair compensation, and plaintiff is entitled to judgment. 



u 

VanLangenlerg for the defendant, res pondent-OrdiDa fleer 
9 of 1876 provides procedure for summary recovery of 
damages caused by cattle, and repeals Ordinance 2 of 1835 ''®* 
lating to the same subject. The Supreme Court has held that 
the older Ordinance did not repeal the Common Law, which 
has been expressly reserved by the Ordinance of 1876. The 
present action is under the Common Law. I do not dispute 
the Eoman^Dutch Law, but there being no public pound in 
Ceylon the only remedy is by private detention. In the 
case quoted from the S.C.C, the action (which was for the 
value of cattle that had been taken damage feasant and had 
died in the custody of the headman) was dismissed on the 
ground that the detention^ whether by the proprietor or the 
headman, his agent, was lawful. D. 0. Kandy, 18,947, 
Austin, 102, was an action (in 1846) for the recovery of the 
value of 2 bullocks which the defendant detained ; and it 
was held that, there having'been no tender of compensation* 
the detention was justified. C. R. Kandy, 30,619, Creasy f 
ny, citing Fan Leeuwen, Comm., 494. [The Chief 
Justice— Can you detain one cow for the damage done by 
a whole herd ? Cla.rence, J. — Everything may be pre 
sumed against the owner of the cattle as a spoliator, and it 
will be-for him to apportion and divide the damage.] 

Dornhorstt in reply— The decision in Austin was that of a: 
single judge, and is open to review now. There is a case 
in Orenier (1873), P,C., p 102, in which the Full Court 
decided that the Common Law remedy remained. In the 
present case the judge has found that 20 head of cattle did 
Rs. 30 of damage, and this one cow's damage on 4 days 
amounted to Rs, 10 3 bo that the Rs. 2.50 tendered was fair 
compensation for the damage done oa the day of seizure, 
and the detention after that tender was unlawful. 

(13th July). ClaIrencb, J.— In this action plaintiff 
seeks to recover from defendant the value of a cow said to 
be unlawfully detained by defendant. Defendant answers 
that the cow is detained as having been seized trespassing^ 
damage feasant, and claims in reconvention Rs. 10 for the 
damage done. The Cojnmissioner has dismissed plaintiff's 
action and given defendant judgment in reconvention for 
Bs. 10. Plaintiff appeals. 

There is ho doubt that the cow was seized while trespass* 

■ 

ing damage feasant, but it was argued by appellant's counsel 



15 

ttiat defendant had no right to detain the cow in his own 

keeping, but that he might and should have handed it over 

to a headman. It seems that according to the Roman 

Dutch Law the owner of the land trespassed upon had no 

right to detain the cattle in his own private keeping, but to 

send them to the pound, which Voet (ix. 1.3.) styles public 

cum stahulum. There are no pounds in Ceylon* ^o far as I 

am aware ; but headmen sometimes take over charge of dis^ 

trained cattle. Under the Cattle Trespass Ordinance of 18761 

a police officer or local headman is rendered a proper person 

to take charge of distrained cattle, but the loth section of 

that Ordinance expressly reserves all Common Law righ's 

to the person injured by the trespass. The defendant in the 

present instance did not dhoose to avail himself of the 

procedure provided by the Ordinance ; neither did he hand . 

over the cow to any headman. There is no doubt that the 

distrainor, by handing over the cattle to a headman, relieves 

himself of much responsibility, but in my opinion, if he is 

disposed to accept the responsibility of the charge of Ihe 

animal, he may detain it himself. We are not now con. 

earned with ihe Ordinance of 1S76, but with the Common 

Law, and I am not aware that the custody of a headman has 

ever come to occupy the place oi ihe publicum stabulum to the 

length of being compulsory on the distrainor. 1 have 

always understood the law to be, that the distrainor relieves 

himself of responsibility if he gets a headman to take charge ; 

bat that if be chooses to detain the beast himself he may. 

This, it would seem, was also the opinion of Caylbt, C. J , 

and my brother Dias (vide the conclnding para, in the case 

reported, 3 S.C.C, 51). The case reported in Austin, p 102, 

seems also to proceed upon the same principle, since the 

detention in that case appears to have been detention by the 

defendant personally. 

Having decided this point in defendant's favor, it seems 
to me unnecessary to enter upon the discussion of the vari- 
ous points which were urged with reference to the damage 
for which the cow was distrained. It Appears that this cow, 
in company with several other head of plaintiff's cattle, had 
been for some days breaking into and damaging defendant's 
coffee ; and at last the cow was seized. The evidence indi-» 
cates that the total amount of damage done was conisidera^ 
bly more than the Rs. 10 demanded by defendant. Under 
such circumstances I am not disposed to make presumptions 



16 

in favour of plaintiff, and all that I think it necessary to 
say is, that if in addition to the above facts there ate any 
other facts which would limit the amount of defendant's 
lien on this cow further than the moderate amount at which 
defendant has placed it it is in my opinion for plaintiff to 
establish such facts, and he has not done so. 

I think the judgment appealed against should be affirmed, 
with the variation that, plaintiff having paid Rs. 2.^0, the 
judgment must be only for Rs. 7- 50. Plaintiff, having 
failed in the main matters argued, must pay defendant's 
costs in appeal. 

The judgment of DiAS, J., proceeded upon the same 
ground, and the Acting Chief Justice (Db Wet) concurred 

in the above judgment. 

Affinned» 
Proctor for Appellant, Ed. Swan. 

Proctor for Respondent , y. D. yonklaas, 

[See a Paper on the subject of i attle Trespass, in the 
Legal Miscellany for December 1864, No. 5]. 



Jj^th and iSth Julif, 1882. 
Present — De Wet, A. C. J., and Clarence, J. 

D. C. 1 Seka Lebbe Cassim LiBBE Marikar and others. 
Kt-galla. \ v. 

4, '.25. J Reginald BEArcHAMP Downall and others. 

Pracn-p — /pp^al to tie Priv^ Coumil^Crl* 110/ 1868, 
s.ct. ^2, sulsec s. 3 aj,d n, 

The Supreme Court deliverrd a judgiiient in this case on 22nH Novem- 
ber 1881, which did not i ass the teal of the Court till 28th M;irch 1882. 
Appellant (ihe plaintiff) filed his petition of appeal on 8th April, and 
tendered his bond for stcurity in appeal (the acceptance of which was 
unopposed) on 7th July, 1882 

Held, that the 14 days within which (under subsect. 3) the petition of 
appeal had to be filed were to be rtckoned from the date of the judijra'-.rit 
sought to be appealed against passing the seal of the Court, and n«t 
from the date of its delivery in Court ; and ttat therefore the petition 
was filed in time. 

Held si\sOj that the bond for security in appeal bad been tendertd 
■within the three months of filing the petition ot appeal, and was there- 
fore in time. 

The case came up on a question whether the security 
bond tendered by the Plaintiffs for their appeal to Her 
Majesty in Council was in lime. 



17 

Judgment upon the plaintiffs* appeal from the District 
Court of Kbgalla was delivered in the Supreme Court on 
the 2}Dd Nov- 1881 by Caylbt. C. J. and Clarbnob» J. 
affirming the non-suit entered* Van Langenberg then point* 
ed out that the execution of the power of attorney, upon the 
noQ proof of which the Judges' decision proceeded, bad 
been admitted in .the Court below ; and it was ordered that 
the judgment should not pass (he seal of the Supreme 
Court, pending the production of an affidavit by plaintiffs' 
Counsel. Catlbt^ 0. J.* then went on circuit/ and shorts 
I7 after took ill, and the affidavit was presented before 
Clarbncb, J. who, after hearing Counsel, ordered on the 
37th March that the judgment previously delivered should 
pass the seal of the Court, declaring that, even taking that 
power of attorney as admitted, the chain of evidencp was 
inoomplete. The judgment was accordingly sealed on the 
28th March, and on the 8th April plaintiffs filed theirpeiitioa 
for leave to appeal to the Privy Council. On the 7th July, 
having given notice to the defendants' Proctor of their 
motion, fPmdt moved that the security bond filed by the 
plaintiffs be accepted. For the convenience of the Judges 
it was ordered that the discussion of the motion should lie 
over for the Tuesday following, though it should be treated 
as having been made on the 7th. On Tuesday (the i xth 
July) Grenier for the Respondents wished the motion to be 
postponed to the 14th, and it now cane up before the Judges 
sitting for Final appeals. 

Grenier for the defendants contended, first, that the peti-* 
tioQ for leave to appeal was out of time, the fortnight within 
which it was doe having been calculated from the date the 
judgment passed the seal of the Court, and not from the 
day of its original delivery in open Court by Caylbt, C. J. 
A judgment becomes the judgment of a Court, when it is 
delivered in open Court by the judges as tueir decisioo. 
6ub«section 3 of section 5a, Ordinance 11 of 1868, pre- 
scribes that a petition for leave to appeal shall be filed within 
14 days of the judgment being pronounced, but it does not 
provide that such judgment shall bear date (and the 14 days 
be reckoned from) the day such judgment receives the seal 
of the Court- , The words of the section are " given or pro^ 
Douoced," and the judgment in this case was *' given and 
pronounced*' on the 22nd November. [ The Cbibf 



1'8 

Justice— Section 57 says the ** decision** of two jndges 
shall be the judgment of the Coart. CtARBNCB, j. -But 
"judgment" in this section dpp'^rently means **decree."] The 
seal of the Court is meant merehy to secure the autheniica* 
tion of the judgraent,, and its recognidon by otheT Courts. 
[The Chii'.f JtrsTicB — J he true test of the ase of a seal ist 
could execution issue upon a judgment without it 9 A-gain» 
in a Criminal case^ the judge cannot pass sentence until the 
v?rdict of the JQt-y has been indorsed on the indictment and 
signed by the foreman. I know of a case at the Cape, in 
which a similar appeal was Iodised, and the copying of the 
documehts to send to the Privy Council took six months, 
a< d in the meantime the recognisances had been per ected. 
ChkK^vCRt J, —The decree might be sealed the very day of 
delivery, and the copying of the grounds Und refasons proceed 
afterwards]. 

Secondly, the security was ndt completed within 3 months 
'6f the petition for leave to appeal. That petition was filed 
on the 8th April, and the ^ months would have expired at 
midnight on 7th July. On that day, near 5pm, the^ 
appellants tender their security bond. How could the 
^judges have decided on the sufficiency of the security in 
that short while ? [ The ChiefJusticB — Wonders can be 
done in 7 hours] But it suffices that nothing taas done* 
[The CtfiBF Justice — No one appeared to oppose the 
acceptance of the security, and to give the parties interested 
an opportunity of appearing we Said '* let the matter be 
mentioned on Tuesday, and we shall accept the motion as 
made tunc pro nunc^*"]. But the tender of the bond is not 
sufficient — the security must be " completed" within the 
three months. [ The Chief J trsTioc -Suppose the appeU 
lant and respondent could not^ agree as to the amount ot the 
security, and this difference continued till the time was 
nearly out, the appellant might come into Court just a few 
hours within the lime, and say, ** If the Court holds yoqr 
objection frivolous, then I am in time ; but if I wait till the 
time is out you may use the very argument you are now 
pressing,'* Clabenc*)*, J.— The would-be appellant tender- 
ed a security. If we had accepted it he would have been in 
time. For our convenience we adjourned the hearing and 
now discuss it. If that security, tendered on last Friday, 
be now held insufficient, 1 do not say we would entertain a 
fresh proposal. On the t)ther point> mj piesent opinion is 



19 

9 Strong one, (subject to anything you may show me to the 
eontrary from Mr. Macqueen's booL), that the judgment 
should date from the day it passes the seal. Ou the second 
point, I agree with the Chief Justice that Friday*s motion 
was in time, and that if the security be held sufficient, it 
was certainly tendered in time. The Chief Justiob — Mr. 
Greoier is satisfied with the amount of the security — 
Clarbncb, J. — Then^ of course, cadit qucestio.'\ I do not 
^esiion the value of the security^ but only the fact of its^ 
being in time« 

Van I angenherg^ for the plaintiffs, contra ^ (He was only^ 
called upon with reference to the first point.) The record 
is the only evidence of the date of the judgment, and in ft 
the decree is dated the 28th March. Immediately after the 
judgment bad been delivered, what T thought an error was- 
pointed out, and the jndgment was ordered' not to pass the 
seal. The true test is the C. ps. Could execution have 
issued ? [Mr. Zr005i, the officiating Registrar, referred to by^ 
the Court, said it could, not. Grenier —The Registrar can 
only speak to the practice, not the law.J. The decision 
pronounced in November was a mere expression of opi. 
nion,.and it cannot be denied that the jpdges have a right 
to re..consider their opinions, and that is what the judges- 
here did. 

Ctir* adv. vult- 

(i8th July). Glabbncb. J. — This- case now comes be- 
fore us upon the plaintiffs' tender of seouritv in appeal to 
Her Majesty in Her Privy Council. The niatter was 
moved by Mr. U^endt for plaintiffs on Friday the 7th before 
the rising of the Court, but there not being then time to 
enter upon it we saved Mr. ff^endft motion until that day 
weekr when Mr. Wendi matde his application and the objecu 
lion was taken on behalf of defendants that plaintiffs were 
out of time. It is admitted on defendants* part that the 
security if tendered in^time is sufficient, and^ the only, ques^ 
tion which we have to consider is— whether, pjaintiffs' 
security was in time when tendered on -the 7th< 

That question turns upon this consideration : — are or are 
not the fourteen day.s mentioned, in subsection 3 of section' 
52r of Ordinance ri of 1868 to be reckoned from the day on 
which Chief Justice Catlby and myself pronounced ouc 
judgments or opinions in open Court ? 



20 

Subsection 3 requires the intending appellant to petition 
for leave to appeal from the *'jud(;cnent, decree, or sentence" 
by which he may feel aggrieved *' within fourteen days next 
after the same shall have been pronounced, made or given/' 
That requirement complied with, the party-has» by sabsec- 
tio.n ir. three months from the date of his petitioning for 
leave to appeaU within which three months he mu^ give 
his security. 

The judgments of Chief Justice Catlbt and myself were 
pronounced in Court on some day in November i83i. 
Afterwards, while I was engaged with the Colombo Criminal 
Session which lasted from November loth' to December 9th, 
plaintiffs' counsel stated to the Chibf Justicb that he 
feared th^re had been some misapprehension on our part 
with regard to the extent of plaintiffs' admissions, where** 
upon the Chibf Justice directed that the decree in appeal 
should not pass the seal until that suggestion had been 
considered and the case spoken to upon the point. I 
am not now aware on what precise date the Chiep 
Justicb gave that direction, but I understand that it was 
within two or three days of the delivery of our opinions in 
Court. By the time I was released fropi the labour of the 
Colombo Criminal Session, Chief Justice Caylby had left 
Colombo on the Midland Circuit, and up to the time when 
he was overtaken by his lamented illness early in the pre* 
sent year, there had been no opportunity for our sitting to 
have this matter spoken to. After Mr. Cay ley had left for 
England, the matter was plaoed in the paper and mentioned 
before myself alone ; when after hearing what counsel had 
to say I was of opinion that our judgments or opinions had 
been pronounced upon no misconception as to the admi&* 
sions ; and on the »7th March I directed the Registrar that 
the decree in appeal should pass the seal. The decree was 
sealed next day, and on the 8th April plaintiffs presented 
their petition for leave to appeal. 

Consequently, if the fourteen days are to be reckoned 
either from the day on which the decree was sealed or from 
the preceding day on which I directed it to be sealed, the 
plaintiffs were in time. Defendants* Counsel contends that 
the fourteen days have to be rck:koned from the day in 
November on which Chief Justice Catlbt and I pro* 
nounced our opinions ; and if that contention holds good, 
plaintiffs of course are altogether out of time. 



21 

Without entering upon any general question whether in 
general the fonrteen days should be reckoned from the oral 
delivery of ]ndgEBent or from the sealing of the decree in 
appeal, it is plain that under the circumstances of the present 
case the fonrteen days ought not to be reckf>ned Irom any 
date earlier at any rate than the 27lh March, the day on 
which plaintiffs were definitively informed by me thar. the 
Supreme Court saw na reaaon to modify what had already 
been pronounced. . Up to that tiow the matter had been , 
distinctly, by direction of the Chibp Justice, held in abey* 
ance. The Ohibr Justice no doubt intended to consult 
me, and plaintiffs were given to understand that the matter 
was in the interim held in abeyance. 

Plaintiffs are therefore in time in tendering their security. 

Upon the general question I have as at present advised > 
an opinion, but 1 do not find it necessary to state it. 

Db Wbt, a. C. J.— Under the circumstances' stated, and 
upon the prmciple ciciuf curice nemin fadt njuriam . I am of 
opinion that the plaintiffs are in time in tendering their 
secarity. 

Security accepted* 



i*]th and^ist March, 1882. 
Present—CLARBNCB, A. C« J., Bias, J. 



D, C. \ T. A. Dona Ana 
Kalutara, > v, 

35»r33- ^ T. Don Vissbnty Naidb and another. 

Bfitish Ship^^Registration-^i'3 and 18 Vkt^ c. 104, j, 107 
'^Fraudtdent Registration* 

Plaintiff sued to have a «leclaration of title to one- half of a d honey, of 
which defendants were in the unlawful possession, the first defendant 
.being entitled to the other half. The Court below found that the defen** 
dants had repaired the dboney and fraudulently had it registered as 
their exclusive property under a different name. ' 

Heldf that plaintiff was not shutout by the registration from show, 
ing her title, notwithstanding that she had taken no steps to have her 
own title registered in accordance with the Merchant Shipping Adt, 1854. 

This was an action by plaintiff to obtain a declaration of 
title to, and to Recover possession of,. a half.part of a dhoney, 
which the defendants unlawfully kept in their sole posses- 



22 

sion- Plaintiff claimed title through her deceased hitsband* 
vfho had been sole owner, and admitted the right of first 
defendant and hh ward Gabo to the other half of the 
vessel. 

The defendants pleaded in effect r ist, that they were 
not guilty ; 2ndly, that defendants had jointly built a dhon^y 
called Siriya Dewe fPilhelmina, which was registered in 
Colombo as the defendants* (property ; ^rJly, that the said? 
vessel nevr'.r formed part of the estate of plaintiff's deceased 
husband. 

At the trial on i5.th September i88r, the District Judge 
(y. H' de Saram) after evidence heard on both sides as to 
the identity of the vessel, which was then lying in the 
Kalutara river, gave judgment for the plaintiff. 

In appeal by the defendants, 

Burnslde, Q. A., {Dornhorst with him) for the appellants 
contended that plaintiff's action was misconceived- The 
defendants were admittedly registered owners, and would 
therefore be presumed to be owners* Where the title to a 
ship comes strictly and properly in questfon, no claim can 
be received in, opposition to the. modes of conveyance re- 
quired by the Me chant Shipping Act, 1854. Abbott, Law 
of VJerchant Ships and Seamen, i2fth ed„ p 56- Follett v, 
JJelany (1) 5 MCalaiont v. Rankin, (2) 5 8la er v- IVillis^ 
(3). Section 58 of the Act requires the registration of every 
alteration in the ownership, in order to make the register 
true evidence of the actual ownership. The ship in ques- 
tion was registered in March 1879 ^^ ^ ^^^ ^^'P under t^e 
name of the Siriya Dewe J^ilhelmina, while the plaintiff 
claims it as an old ship under the name of Fortitude, in 
distinct contradiction of the register, which is made prima 
facie evidence by the Act (sect, 107). 

He also referred to Ex parte Yallop, (4.) ; The Princess^ 
Charlotte, (5). 

y. Orenier (Aluis with him) for the plaintiff respond^snt 
contra ^The Court below finds as a fact that the ship ia 
question is identical with the one that belonged to plaintiff's 
husband under the name of the For itude y and that first 

(1) 2 DeGcx & Sra., 235, | (4) 15 Ves. Jan., 60. 

(2) 21 L. T„ I ; 8 Hart, I. | (5) B. & L. Aden. Cas., 75* 

(3) I Beav., 354. 



23 

defendaof, having liad half of the vessel left him by the will 
of plaintiff's husbind, took a conveyance from the adminis** 
trator for a share in a ship which he n<>w says never existed. 
Section J07 of the Merchant Skipping Act makes the regis* 
ter on\y prima Jacie, and not conclusive, proof of the matters 
stated in it. The Empress, (i). The ruling in the case of 
The Princess Charlotte, (2) is entirely in favor of this view. 
Section 57 provides tor the registration of title by contract, 
and section 58 requires the making of a declaration by a 
party acquiring title by succession. Now plaintiff's hus* 
band,. Daniel Naide, having purchased at a FiscaTs sale and 
received no transfer, could not produce any document for 
registration and would only have had (o make a declaration. 
The Act nowhere makes the absence of the declaraiioa 
iatal to the transmission of title. 

Bumside in reply — Plaintiff should have had herself regis* 
tered as part owner on her husband's death. Having failed 
to do so, she has no title as against the registered owners. 

Cur adV' vult* 

(31st March). Clare'icb, A. C. J. — The plainiiflF, who 
is the widow of one Don Daniel Naide, prays a declaration 
that,she is the owner of one half of a dhoney, late the pro- 
perty of Don Daniel Naide. She avers that defendants have 
takea possession of the whole dhoney and deny her title to 
a half share. Defendants deny that thev are in possession 
of any dhoney belonging to the late Don Daniel Naide* 
As to that issue of fact, the question was : whether a cer- 
tain dhoney, which, when this case was tried, was lying at 
KalamuUa, and which is now registered in the name of 
defendants as owners as the Siriya Dewe IVUhelmiaai i^ 
identical with a dlioney called the Fortitude, which formerly 
belonged to Don Daniel Naide. The ist defendant is sole 
heir of Don Daniel Naide, and consequently entitled to half 
the property which belonged to Don Daniel Naide. The 
District Judge finds upon the evidence that the Siriya Dewe 
Wilhdmina is identical with the Fortitude, that the Fortitude 
was repaired, and that defendants registered her as above. 
It does not appear that the Fortitude was ever registered 
while in Don Daniel Naide's ownership, though she ought 

(i) Swab., 160. Decided in 1856. Rep. also 3 Jur., N. S., 119. 
(2) fi. & L. Adm. Cas., 75, 



24 

to have been. We see no reason to disapprove of the 
District Juclge*s finding. The ist defendant thus appears 
to have cheated the widow by registering the dhoney in a 
new name as owned by himself and and defendant. The' 
2nd defendant based his defence on the same allegations as 
iNt dtfendant. contending that the Siriya Dewe Wiihelmiim 
was built by himself and ist defendant, and tUis defence has 
failed. We do not think this registration prevents the 
Court from declaring plaintifiE to be entitled to the half share 
of which defendants have defraaded her. If we were to 
hold otherwise, it would be difficult to avoid holding that,, 
if a ship were stolen, furbished up, navigated to some port, 
and there registered in a new name as a new ship> the new 
registration would be conclusive. We are disposed to think 
that we should have cast the 2nd defendant also in costs, 
bur, as the District Judge in his discretion thought proper 
not to do so» we do not interfere* 

We dismiss the appeal with costs^ It is open to the 
plaintiff, by way of giving effect to the decree in her favor,, 
to apply to the District Judge for an order directing the 
d-fendaiits to convey to her a half-share in the said Siriya 
Dewe IPilhelmina. 

DiAS, J.» concurred. 

Appeal dismissed' 

Proctor for plaintiff, A» L d'Ahuis. 

Proctors for defendants, IV, VdnderwalU ^« de Silvct* 



25 

list ^ub/ and liih Augusl^ 1882. 

Present— De Wet, A. C J., and Dias, J. 

D C. -^ Parussellb Dhammajoti Unnanse 
Kandy, [ ^• 

^,099 J TiKiRi Band A Paranatal A. and two others. 

Second Action for same subject-matter ^Staying proceed* 
ings in, till payment of costs of former action, 

Platntif! brought an action to recover from the three present defendants 
possession of a vihaia and its endowment?, and obtained judgment, 
which was reversed in Appeal by the Supreme Court, and his suit 
dismissed. Plaintiff then commenced the present action for the s^m^ 
subject-matter and declaring on the same cause of action^ though 
tracing his title somewhat differently from the previous suit. 

Heldf following Thomas v. Braine (reported 3 S.C.C. 149), that the 
Dijstiict Couit has a discretionary power to stay proceedings in a secon4 
action till payment of the costs of the former action by the unsuccessful 
plaintiff. 

Held also, that that discretion bad been rightly exercised in the 
present case in making the order staying further ptpceedings* 

The libel of the plaintiff averred that by a saunas dated 
Saka 1708 (A. D. 1785), Sri Rajadhi Rajasinha, the last 
King of Kandy, had granted the Degaldoruwe Vihara and 
hs endowments to Moratota Nayaka Unnanse and his pupils 
in generations for ever. The grantee possessed the Vihara 
until his death, when he was succeeded by his pupils Dunu. 
mala Silawnnsa Unnanse, Sonuttara Unnanse, and Mahalle 
Sobhita Unnanse. After the death of the two fortne^*, 
Mahalle Sobhita became the sole incumbent of the Vihara 
as the only surviving pupil of the original grantee, Moratota 
Nayaka Unnanse. In 1849 ^^ahalle Sobhita, then in pos- 
session as. incumbent, disrobed himself and took service 
under the British Government as Ratemahatmeya of Upper 
Hewaheta, He had then three pupils, viz. Paranatala 
Ratnapala the elder, -Dunumala Unnanse (who died about 
15 years ago) and Parusselle Dhammajoti (the plaintiff), 
whovas snch pupils entered into possession of the Vihara. 
At the time when Mahalle Sobhita disrobed himself the 
•plaintiff was a Samanera (a priest of the first order) and very 
young, and was therefore placed by the said Sobhita in 
charge of the senior pupil Paranatala Eatnapala the elder, 
who was to educate him* Paranatala Ratnapala carried 
out this task (the plaintiff being in the joint possession of 
the Vihara with hira) and treated the plaintiff throughout 



26 

as a pupil of his own. On the 7th May 1849, just before 
disrobing himself add taking office under the British Go,, 
vemment, Mahalle Sobhita by deed confirmed the plaintiff 
in possession and conveyed the Vihara and its endowments 
to plaintiff and three other pu,)ils of his, viz. Siriroalwatte 
Sumangala> Paranatala Ratnapala the younger, and Parana^ 
tala Sumana.- The plaintiff, fully believing that he was the 
pupil according to the Buddhist religion of the said Paranatala 
Batnapala the elder^ as well as of the said Mahalle Sobhita , 
and that the former h^d power to execute the said deed in 
his favor, continued in the joint possession with his co- 
grantees under the deed of 1849, until they died or disrobed 
themselves, and thereafter in the sole possession of the 
Vihara, until he was dispossessed thereof by the defendants 
in 18775 when the plaintiff brought against them the suit 
D. C Kandy, No. 81,630, in which he claimed the incum^ 
bency as pupil of Paranatala Ratnapala the elder, in virtue 
of the deed of May 1849, ^°*^ recovered judgment in the 
District Court. The Supreme Court, however, reversed that 
decree, and dismissed plaintiff's claim, on the ground that 
plaintiff was not, according to Buddhist ecclesiastical law, 
pupil of the said Paranatala Ratnapala, the elder ; and 
the plaintiff contends that his rights as the sole surviving 
pupil of Mahalle Sobhita remain intact, by which, according 
to the saunas, he is entitled to the incumbency. The libel 
went on to complain that the second defendant took wrongs 
ful possession of the vihara in 1877, and is with the first 
defendant in the wrongfuloccupation thereof, alleging that 
he holds the same under the orders of the first and for the 
benefit of the third defendant. The plaintiff prayed he 
might be restored to, and quieted ip, the possession of the 
said vihara and its appurtenances, of the value of Rs. 40,000, 
and that defendants might be decreed to pay the plaintiff 
mesne profits and damages at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per 
annum. 

This libel was filed by Mr. J. B. Siebel on the 27th 
January 1882, and on the i jth February Mr. C. Vander^ 
wall, the proctor for the defendants, moved that proceedings 
in this action might be stayed until . the plaintiff had paid 
the defendants the costs of the former action, amounting to 
Ks* 2,189* ^^^^ motion was supported by an affidavit of 
the first defendant, deposing to the non-payment of the 
costs* The motion was discussed in the District Court, 



2? 

Slid on the 27th April the District Judge {Launrie) made the 
following order : — 

'^This is an application bj defendants for an order to stay 
proceedings antil the costs decreed to the defendants in 
case No. 8J1650 be paid by the plaintiff. 

At the discussion on this motion it was not denied that 
the plamtiff in March 1879 instituted the action 8^9630 
against the same defendants. In that Hbel plaintiff averred 
that as the sole surviving pupil of one Faranatala Ratnapala 
Unnanse^ and as one of the grantees under a deed of May 
1849 ^ ^^s entitled to the possession of Degaldoruwe 
Vihara and to the endowments thereof. 

His cause of action against the defendants was, that the 
second defendant had taken possession of the vihara and 
refuses to give up possession to him, alleging that he holds 
it by order of the first defendant for and on behalf of the 
third defendant* and that the defendants bad taken the 
produce and endowments to their own use* 

The prayer of the libel was that the defendants may be 
cited to shew caose why the plaintiff should not be declared 
entitled to, and pat and placed in (he possession of, the said, 
temple and of its endowments» and the defendants ejected 
therefrom, and why they should not be decreed to pay 
damages and mesne profits from August 1877- 

The defendants denied the plaintiff's right to the vihara. 
The case was keenly contested; it was repeatedly before 
the Supreme Conrt on appeals from interlocutory orders, 
and after a long trial and a careful and prolonged considera- 
tion of the evidence and of the law, the acting District 
Judge* Mr. R. Morgan, gave judgment for the plaintiff. 

On appeal/ the Supreme Court with equal care reviewed 
the evidence and the law^ and reversed the decision of this 
Court, and dismisjsed the plaintiff's action with costs (i). 
The plaintiff gave notice of an appeal to the Privy Council, 
but that was disallowed (2). 

So keenly had the case been fought, and so thorough was 
the investigation, that the defendants' taxed costs amounted 
to the large sum of Rs. 21189. It is admitted that these 
costs have not been paid. Writ against property has been 
served, but the plaintiff has surrendered no property. The 
plaintiff is a Buddhist priest. It may be assumed he has none. 

(1) Reported 4 S*C. C, 121. J (2) Reputed 4 S. CO., 155* 



28 

!rhe defendants' costs were taxed in December iSSi, lit 
January 1882 the same plaintiff raised this action No 90,099 
against the same defendants. In his libel he set forth a 
title to the same vihara, and his cause of action against the 
defendants is expressed in the same words, and the prayer 
of the libel is in the same terms> as corresponding parts of 
his libel in No. 8i>63o. 

It ii in these circumstances that the defendants pray that 
the Court do stay proceedings in this case until the costs 
in the former case be paid. 

Such applications, though by no means frequent, werd 
not unknown in our Courts, but recently the right of the 
District Courts to make such an order was impugned in thd 
case No. 85,407 (D. C. Kandy). There after full discussion 
it was held ihat the District Courts had such a jurisdicx 
tion (i). 

It is clear from that judgmetit of the Supreme Court, as 

well as from other authori Lies, that a District Court would 

be justified in exercising the power to stay proceedings 

when the new action is oppressive or vexatious, and in 

opposing the motion now before me the counsel for the 

plaintiff directed his arguments mainly to convince me that 

this was no vexatious suit. On that point I am with him^ 

I have no reason to believe that it is vexaHous* The high 

character of the Counsel and of the proctr r for the plaintifiE 

makes it certain that they would not have advised a ** vexa« 

tious*' action. Besides, I bhink that I would not be 

justified in characterisin|; an action as vexatious before 

the pleadings and proof are before me. It would be 

monstrous were I now to prejudge the case and to decide 

that the plaintiff has no chance of succeeding. I go 

further than the plaintiff's counsel asked me to go. I 

shall not only not hold that this case is vexatious, but I 

shall assume that the dlaim now made is unanswerable^ 

and that the defendants here will offer no defence and will 

consent to judgment being entered for the plaintiff. 

But the question remains, Are the defendants not entitled 
to demand that before pleading or before consenting to 
judgment in this case, the costs incurred by them in the 
former case shall be paid P The earliest reported case in 
our Courts in which the question was raised is 83 15 D. 0< 

.Colombo, aoth October 184 1 (2). " The costs of a former 

— , _ -. 

(1) 3 S. C. C.} I49« 1 (t) Morgan's Dig., p 320. 



'29 

^Uit which has been withdrawn mast be paid^ before a neW 
suit for the same claim can be insiituted/' It is possible 
that io that case the condition of paying costs was attached 
to the permission to withdraw the action. If such a con- 
dition had been added, then until it was fulfilled and the 
costs paid the former action would b(^ regarded as still 
pending, and if pending, no new action for the same claim 
could be entertained. That case does not assist me here. 
Thomson s Institutes^ pp 48 z> 483) refer to a Galle case in 
1852, but the' particulars are not given. It may be gathered 
from I Loren\ p 95 that the Supreme Court in D. 0. Galle 
131329 stayed proceedings until costs of a former action 
Were paid, but there the District Judge of ([Jalle in the later 
case 16,937 refused to be guided by that judgment of the 
Supreme Court, and held that when a previous case had 
come to an end not on the merits^ but on an issue utterly 
irrelevant thereto, the later action shuuld not be stayed, and 
the Supreme Court affirmed that judgment. That is not a 
case like the present, and in my opinion gives me no 
guidance^ The next case reported is D. 0. Colombo, 19,144 
(i). That was an action for the recovery of land. The 
same plaintiffs, as I read the report, had sued the same 
defendant,^r^^ (in 13,675^ for injunction against a sale and 
for declaration of title, which action was settled by consent 
in a judgment which did not deal with the right to the 
lands 5 and second in an adtion for the land, in which the 
plaintiffs were nonsuited, because they had not properly set 
out their title as heirs« 1 he same plaintiffs then raised a 
third action, and it was pleaded that their non-payment of the 
costs of No. 13,675 was a bar to maintaining the suit. The 
decision turned on a construction of the judgment by con* 
sent, and the Supreme Court held the payment was not a 
condition precedent to the right of the plaintiff again to sue. 
But at the same time, while the right of the plain ti€E to sue 
was sustained, the Supreme Court decided that they were 
not entitled to obtain possession of the lands until they paid 
the costs in that former action. It is plain that this was a 
special case, and can hardly be relied on as an authority on 
either side here. In Fanderstraaten'^ Reports there are short 
notes of two cases on pages 150 and 233, These reports are 
meagre, the facts are not given. So far as they go, however, 
they support > thd contention that the power of sta>ing pro- 

(1) 3 Lorenz, 261. 



30 

Ceedings shouM be exercised only when the second action is 
deemed vexatious. I am not aware of aoy subsequent 
reported case, except that of Thomas v. Braine, 851407 of 
this Courr, already referred to (t). 

I am incHned to hold the law to be that, when the merits 
of a case have not been tried and adjudicated on, .and where 
the decision has been on some si^de issue or on technical 
grounds, or is a more nonsuit, tht^ non-payment of costs is 
DO reason why the second action should not be maintained y 
but thas where the merits of a cause have been tried and 
adjudicated on and a decision adverse to the plaintiff given, 
with costs payable to^Hhe defendant, a plaintiff may not 
maintain a second suit to obtain a judgment identical with 
that he formerly asked for, until he pays the ibmer co8ts% 
I take it that the power to stay proceedings should be exer. 
cised only when the prayers in the libels in both cases are 
the same ; and that it is just that it should always be exer«- 
cised where the Court has, after full investigation, refused 
CO grant that prayer y and the plaintiff should not again be 
allowed to sue the same persons to attain the same object^ 
until he pays the costs he has been decreed to pay. The 
cases in which the power can be exercised aie but few 5 for 
in general the plea of res judicata is available to a defendant 
who has successfully resisted the same demand. Here I 
can give no opinion as to whether the plea of res judicata is 
or is not available. That is a nlatter not before me. 

The plaintiff here,* I understand, maintains that he has 
right to this vihara by two different lines of ecclesiastical 
descent. The Supreme Court has decided against his right 
through one of these lines, and he now seeks to set forth 
and to establish his right by the other line. I take it that 
the prayer of the libel being the same, the object to be 
attained being identical, on discovering that the title as pre- 
sented by him in the former case was bad or doubtful, he 
might have moved for leave to amend his libel by averring 
his right by the other line of descent. If he had made such 
an application for leave to amend, it would have been grant- 
ed only on payment of the costs which, the defence to the 
first title had caused the defendants. The plaintiff did not 
take that course. He waited until the case was fully heard 

and until judgment was given, and now he proposes prac- 
tically to amend his former libel. He does so by filing a 

— — — ■ ■ 1 1 1 I , I m > 

(0 3 S. C. C, 149. 



31 

• 

new one, bat on the analogy of the condition on which 
alone he could have amended — that of paying antecedent 
costs —I hold he can have his claim again investigated only 
on the same condition. 

There is another ground for staying proceedings, which 
however I refer to rather than rely on. In the case of 
Thomas y. Braine (i) Mr. Justice CVabbnce said, * Taking 
it as established that the District Court has the power, we 
might resort to English authorities for assistance upon the 
question, Under what circumstances should the power be 
exercised ?' If it be permissible to resort to these authori* 
ties (which I venture to doubt) it will be found, I think* 
that the right to stay proceedings until the costs of a pre« 
▼ious action be paid, is exercised by the English Common 
Law Courts only in actions in ejectment. That supports 
the motion of the defendants here, for thi*; is an action 
in ejectment, but the reason why the English Courts 
exercise, the right is because judgment in ejectment is 
not res judicata, I quote from Broom's Legal Maxims, 
P333 5 'Although a judgment in ejectment is admissible 
in evidence in another ejectment between the same parties, 
yet it is not conclusive evidence, because a party may 
have a title to possession at one time and not at another ; 
and hence, he continues, * there is the remarkable difference 
between ejectment and other actions with regard to the 
maxim under consideration (Nemo debet bis vexari pro una 
et eadem, causa)** And he adds, 'the Courts of Common 
Law have, however, sometimes interfered to stop proceed* 
ings in ejectment, either in order to compel payment of the 
costs in a forAMr. action, or when such . proceedings were 
manifestly vexation •? and oppre<^sive.' He refers to a con-» 
siderable number of cases, to which, however, I at present 
have no access. This rule of English Law favours the 
^ contention of the defendants, though I cannot lay much 
stress on a practice which seems founded on the rule that 
judgments in ejectment are x\o\. re\ judicata. But this case 
at least, according to the plaintiff, is a case of judgment in 
ejectment, which is not res judicata. On that footing only 
can be maintain the action. It is therefore (I assume) a 
case like those referred to by Broom, and the English prac. 
tice and authorities may apply. As I have not read the 
English decisions on the point, I cjo not venture to rely on 

(i),3S. C. C, 149. 



32 

them. But on general grounds I hold that, as the same 
demand here made by the plaintiff was investigated and 
was decided on the merits against him with costs, he 
cannot in justice repeat it on grounds which he might have 
stated in his former case, wiihout. first paying costs. The 
analogy of the condition under which he, could have obtained 
leave to amend seems to be forcible. / 

I grant the motion of the i6ih February iS8i with 
costs." 

From this order the plaintiff appealed, on the following 
grounds chiefly : i. The second action was not vexatious, 
as found by the District Judge. Only vexatious second 
actions are liable to be stayed till pavnient of previous costs. 
Though the second action is very similar to the first, it is 
not altogether the same, for the plaintiff now rlaims by a 
different title. 2. This is not an action in ejectment (D. 
C. Kaody 81630, 4 S C.C, 121) ; in such actions only do 
the English Courts, as found by the District Judge, exercise 
the power of staying the second action. 

Grenier for the plaintiff, appellan^ cited Voet, ad Pand., 
It. 8. 1., XLii. T. 26. G renier*s Rep orts (1874), D.O., 
PP <59.7i- Deneys v. Stofiergt ( i), and Koman Dutch Law 
authorities there cited. As to English Practice : 2 A'chbold, 
p. B Practice^ i ,81 ; Dunve^s v. Morgan (2), PashUy v. 
toole (3), Edmunds v. Att. Gen, (4), Dawkins v. Rokehy 

(5)- 

Van Langenbergi for the respondent (Dornhorst with him), 
cited Morg an s Digest^ p . 320 ; i Lorenz p- 9^ ; Van der 
Liiet V, Exors oj Karnspeck (6). Hoare v. Dickson (7), 
Prowse V. Loxdale (8). Cohhett v. Warner (9). Tichborne 
V. Mosiyn (10}. 

Grenier was heard in reply.i 

Cur, adv. vult. 



(1)1 Menzie's Cape Reports, 301. 
{%) 25 L. J., C. P., 144. 
(:?) 3D.&R.. S3. 

(4) 47 L- Jm Eq., 345. 

(5) L. R.j 7 H. L. Cas., 744, 

(6) 3 Menzie, 395. 

(7) 7 0. B., 164 ; 18 L. J., C. P., 158, S. C. 

(8) 3 B & S., 896 ; 32 L J., Q. B., 227 ; 8 L. T., N. S., 314, S. C. 

(9) L. R., 2 Ql. B., 108. 
(loj L. R., 8 C. P„ 29. 



33 

(i8th August). DiAS, J.— The question in this case is, 
whether a plaintiff* ivho was defeated on the same cause of 
action in a previous case, can proceed against the same 
defendants on the identical cause of action without paying 
the costs of the former suit. The plaintiff in this case, who 
is a Buddhist priest, instituted a suit 81630 D. 0. Eandy, 
agaiostr these three defendants in March 1879. ^^^^ ^^ 
was keenly contested by both parties, and^ after several orders 
and interlocutory appeals, was finally tried and decided in 
May i8i)o in favor of the plaintiff, l^he defendants ap- 
pealed, aud in July 1881 the Supreme Court set aside the 
judgment of the District Court, and dismissed the plaintiff's 
aciiou with costs. The cause of action in both cases is the 
same, but the plaintiff's title as set out in this case is 
different frooi the titles set up. by him in the previous case. 
The taxed costs of the previous case amount to Rs. 2189, 
and the defendants very properly say that the plaintiff 
should pay this large sum of money before he can be allow- 
ed to put the defendants to any further expense in defends 
ing the same suit. This appears to be a very reasonable 
request. According to Buddhist Law a priest is supposed 
to be a pauper, though in point of tact Buddhist priests are 
Wealthier than the generality of laymen. Seeing that the 
plaintiff had roea&s of carrying out the protracted litigation 
in the former suit« I fail to see why he should not pay the 
costs of that suit at once. It is probable that the defendants 
are unable to recover these costs by the usual process of 
execution, and it appears to me that it is neither just nor 
reasonable that they should be put to further expense, which 
they may not eventually be able to recover frum the plain- 
tiff. The right of the District Court to stay proceedings 
under the circumstances of this cas<3 was once questioned, 
but this Court, by a series of decisions, held that the District 
Court had such power ; and the last case on the matter is 
reported in 3 8. C> C, 149. There is no rule by which the 
District Judge is bound in the exercise of his discretion. 
Every case must be governed by its own circumstances, and 
I am not prepared to say that the learned Judge in this case 
exercised an unsound discretion. I'he order appealed from 
roust therefore be affirmed with cosb. 

Db Wet, A. C, J.— I am of opinion that the plaintiff, 
having been defeated in his form er suit, cannot commence 



31. 

fresh proceedings without having first satisfied the costs oC 
the previous suit. The order appealed from must therefore 
be afiBrined with costs. 



Order affirmed. 



Proctor for appellant, y. B. Siehel 
Proctor for respondenis, C FanderfPaU, 



ii/A and 25/A August, i88a. 
Present-" Clarbncb and Dias, JJ. 



C. B. \ S. G. AsAOtJBu 
Balapitiya, > v. 

29,712. J Jaybtu Gvttu and two others. 



jurisdiction to give nosts where the Court has no furisdic" 
tion to try the action^ Plea to the jurisdiction* 

Plaintiff sued the defendants for damages for breach of an agreement 
to marry. The Defendants pleaded to the merits, justifying the breach. 
At the trial the C< mmissioner, b< Idin^f heiiad m juiibdiction to try a 
imatrirooniai acticn, dismissed plaintiff's suit with costs. 

Heldf (without txpressinjj any opinion as to the power of the Court in 
Ciibe the defendants had taken the plea to the jurisdiction) that, the plea 
not ba\ing been 'taken \>y the defendants but originated by the Court, 
costs were improperly dectted to tne defendants. 

Held also, that the proper order would have b^en that the suit do 
abate. 

The plaintiff in this suit claimed Rs. 96 50 as damages 
for a breach of promise of marriage. The defendants (the 
first of whom was the father, and the 2nd and 3rd the 
uncles, of the bride) answered, pleading **not guilty," 
denying *• the wrongs and injmies complained of," justify- 
ing their refusal to carry out the promise, and disputing 
liability in damai^es. * On the day of trial, the Commissibher 
(L. G. Tate) made the following order : *' This is in effect a 
matrimunial cause. The real complaint is one of breach of 
promise. It is hardly necessary to point out that this Court 
has no jurisdictioa in such cases. P laintiff's action dismiss.* 
ed with costs-" 

The plaintiff appealed, chiefly on the ground that the 
Gburt had no jurisdiction to award costs, and the appeal first 



came oo before Clarbncb, J., on »7th July, by whose 
order the case was put on for argameat before two Judges* 
and it bow came up accordingly^ 

Gremer for the plaintiff appellant {Yon Langenberg with 
him). 

The Commissioner had no jurisdiction to award CQSts» 
and his only order should have been that the suit should 
abate. An action for breach of promise of marriage is ex* 
pressly excluded from the jurisdiction of the Court of 
BequesUby fSc of Ord* ir of 1868— 16,1*9, 0. R. Pana- 
dure, (r-) f 4,3 59, C. R. N Eliya, (2) j 33, 130, 0. R. Kandy, 
(3). [DiA8,.J.— Ft is very hard on the defendant that he 
should not have his costs, because the plaintiff chose to sue 
him in » court that had no jurisdiction]. The Court of 
Requests-is the creature of a Statute and can have no power 
outside that Statute, The same question of jurisdiction has 
been raised in England under the County Court Act, 9 & 
10 Vict,, cap. 95. The words of that Act are far Is-ger than 
those of our Ordinance, but it was held in Lawford v« 
Partridge (4) that, when on the hearing it appeared that the 
Court had no jurisdiction to try the case, the Judge had no 
power to nonsuit the plaintiff or to aivard costs to the 
defendant. It was argued there that the Court had power 
to award such co«Jis under ( 79, which enacted '• thai if the 
plaintiff shall not make proof of his demand to the sails" 
faction of the Cour', it shall be lawful for the Judge to 
nonsuit ihe plaintiff, or to give judgment for the de -ndant 3 
and in case where the defendant shall appear and shall not 
admit the demand* to award to the defendant, by way of 
costs and satisfaction for his trouble and attendance, such 
sum as the Judge in his discretion shall think fit.'* Th^ 
other section relied on was the 88th, which enacted *^ that 
all the cost of any action ot proceeding in the Court* not 
herein otherwise provided for, shall be paid by or apporti6ned 
between the parties in such manner as the Judge shall think 
fit, and in default of any special direction shall abide the 

■ ' — ' — ■ ' ■ I ■ ■ 

(1) Grenier (1874)* 30, 
(a) Grenier (1S74), 31. 

(3) Civil Minntes.of the Supreme Court, 8th June 1865. 

(4) 26 L. J., Ex., 147 ; 1 H. & N., 6ai, S. C. 



36 

event of the actioD.'* It was held in the case cited that 
§§ 79 and 88 applied to cases over which the Court had 
jurisdiction. The Ord. ii of iS'^S has do provision similar 
to § 88. [Clabbncb, J. — Those are mere ereneral clauses* 
and a Judge would be guided bj the old rules as to awards 
ing cos^s,] Our (\ R. Rules are contained in Ord. 9 of 
1859. [<.'larencE9 J. — Those rules nay nothing as to the 
incidence of costs> but only provide for their taxation. The 
incidence is left to Equity ] Pollock, C B., held in the 
case cited that a Court had no such jurisdiction even under 
§ 89> which enabled the Judge to make such order as to costs 
as he thought fit. [Clakbnob, J.— The question here is 
as to the general Common Law right of Courts]. I submit 
we cannot travel outsid*^ the Statute, and the English deci* 
sions never recognised such Common Law right in the 
County Courts outside the Statute. [Dias, J.— The case 
you cite is also an authority for the position that the power 
to award costs is not inherent in a Court» but the object of 
special power given it]. Yes. And the Queen's Bench, 
not being the creature of a Statute, is not tied down by 
any such restriction. In G N. and L and N, W yoirtt 
Committee v. Inett, (i) though the Q B, held that they 
had no jurisdiction to consider an appeal upon a case stated 
by Justices, because the case had not been transmitted 
within 3 days as required by Statute, yet they gave the 
Sespoodent his costs: Lawford v. Partridge was not there 
cited as it would have been inapplicable to the higher Court. 
[Clarb*^ CB, J.- 1 Bee no difference in principle. I take it 
that if there be no provision to the contrary a small (^ourt, 
however humble, must be governed by the same general 
principles as a higher tribunal. As the Q. B. said in tnetCs 
Case, if the Respondent had not appeared to point out their 
want of jurisdiction they would have gone on to hear the 
appeal, and as he had appeared he was entitled to his 
costs]. I submit that the Court of Requests would not 
have the power to grant costs in any case, unless that power 
were given it by the Statute creating it. In the analogous 
case of appeals to the Supreme Court, where security has 
not been tendered in time, that Court (being a Superior 
Court independent of Statu e) has rejected such appeals 
with costs, [Clarence, J, — I have beeh myself careful 



(i) L. R., a GL B. D., 284. 



37 ' 

never to mention costs in such cases, having doubts of my 
jurisdiction, and leaving it to the parties to raise the ques- 
tion. DiAs, J. — Could the defendant bring an action in 
another Cou' t lo recover from the plaintiff the costs incurred 
in the first suit ? If he could have got them at first he will 
not have t|iem in the second suit. He must recover them 
in one of ^hose ways, for when he has the right he must be 
allowed a remedy. C<.arbncb. J.— If he may recover by 
separate suit there will be a circuity of action.] I do not 
admit he can, and it does not^ afft^ct my argument. Coming 
to our own Ordinances. | 25 of Ord. 9 of 1859 directed the 
Commissioner to hear and dettrmine the cause according to 
law, and directed costs to be taxed according io schedule Q. 
to the Ordinance. [Clarbncb, J — All this aeems to leave 
the question untouched. There is no special provision, and 
so the general rules must govern.] The present action was 
dismissed. What costs are to be given ? There was no 
hearing although the case was set down »oi it, for the Judge 
himself objected to the jurisdiction. Taking it as « ** con- 
tested case" even, in which answer wis filed. Table Q relers 
to caS'S within the jurisdiction, [^''laiiencb, J. — There 
are some cases in which the want of jurisdiction is' apparent 
on the plaint 3 others, like Inelfs Case, in which the de- 
fendant must appear to point it out. Take the case of 
terriioriar jurisdiction -a defendant outside of it need not 
attend on summons, as^suming that th« Court will do its 
duty. Not that it always does, for t have known a /ourt 
of Requests entertain a suit, for £ 50, in which no objection 
was taken to the jurisdiction, possibly because the defendant 
was a Coffee Estate 1 ] The 8+th section of Ord. 11 of 
1868 empowers the C ommissioner, in pronouncmg his judg- 
ment or order in any case, to make such order respecting the 
payment of costs and expenses as to him shall appear just 
and reasonable. [Dias, J.-That clause pre-supposesjuris- 
dictioh. Clarence, J.-There has been a very recent case 
in which the English Court^ of. Appeal held that a Judge s 
discretion must be exercised according to the ordinary rules]. 
At the close of the last argument. Counsel for defendant 
>cited a passage from Poet (Ad Pand.. xlii. i-^S)' ^ ^^^® »' 
that that passage refers onlv to Judges in appeal, who form 
a Superior Court [Dias, J— I see no difference m princi- 
ple between an original Judge and an Appellate, but the 
•distinction between competency on the main question and 



38 

competency oo the question of jorisdiction is reasonable* 
Clarbkcb, J.— At present my opinion is that the Coort of 
Requests is decidedly governed by general rules, and that 
those rules are in joar favor.] 

Seneviratne for the defendant, contra — I cited two pas- 
sages of Voet at the last hearint^^, the other bein^ Book v. 
I. 6^1'-^** yudicem certe ipsuntt cujus jurisdictio declinature de- 
€0 cognoscere duhium non est; adeo ut in expensas quoque 
, actor em temere vocantem con emnare queat^ si semet ipmn 
pronunciet non com/etentem ; cum e^im in ista cognitione, 
quae de fori competentia est, ipse competfm< juder fuerit* 
sequitur, ipsumin expensas quoque. i^tius quaes tionis- intuitu 
fact as y posse damnare. etsi in princi' ali negotio incompetens 
sit.'* I' is admitted that; where the Ourt of R quests has 
jarisdic ion it may award costs, and ii may therefore do so 
on the question of competency. [ larbnok. J. — As I 
said bcfofi , there are certain cases in which the defendant 
has lo appear and point out the want of jurisdiction^ while 
in others appearance is not necessary, the objecion beinjf 
parent] I'oet proceeds to deal wi»h that :—" 5'e(£ an iy, . 
qui vocatus est adjudicem non competentem, venire teneatur, 
ut id doceat, an vero impune emanere possit et vocationem- 
contemner e, non aeque expeditum.*' [Dias, J. — Accord- 
ing to thatf in certain cases the defendant need not appear, 
and ought not then to have the costs of so appearing]. 
Where the ordinance is silent, the Roman Dutch Law mast 
guide us, as laid down by Voet. 

Orenier, in reply— [^Cl arfnce, J. — The House of Lords 
has given costs in such a case {Mackintosh v. Lord Advocate) 
(i)]. My remarks asto Superior Courts apply there. The 
Village Communities Ordinance, No. a5 of 187 1, expressly 
provides that where a case cognizable by a Village Tribunal 
is brought before a Court of Requests the Commissioner 
shall stop the proceedings and refer the parties to the Village 
Tribunal, condemning the parties in costs in such manner' 
as to such Court of Requests shall seem £t. This pro- 



(i) Weekly Notesy May 6, 1876— U R*, 2 App. Ca-, 41, 



39 

Ttsion would bave been unnecessary bad any such right 
existed as is now contended for [ Clarence, J. — It majr 
bave been enacted ex ahundanti cautela. } 

Cur, adv. vult, 

(25th August). Clarence. J. — The libel in this action, 
which is a very obscure document, framed apparently with, 
out any professi <nal assistance, claims that plaint ifiE is 
entitled to recover a certain sum of money in const quence 
of a certain marriage not. having taken place. The defen^ 
dants answered, pleading simply averments and denials of 
fac-s. When the case came on lor trial, the Commissioner 
said, *^ The real comptamt is one of breach of promise" — 
meaning breach of promise of marriage, and thereupon made 
an order dismissing plaintiff's action with costs Plain tifif 
jippeals. The proper order, of course, would have been to 
direct that theactiun should abate, instead of dismissing the 
action 5 but nothing now turns upon this mere matter of 
form. Upon the argument of the appeal. Appellant's 
Counsel admitted the action to be substa< tially an action for 
breach of promise of marriage, which is an action which 
Courts of Requests have no jurisdiciion to enter'ain ; but 
he pre sed the aopeil against the order as 10 C'>sts. h has 
been held «»n vari us occasions in this Court, following the 
rule laid down a' Common Law in Enijlaud in Lawford v 
Partridge ( r) and other cases, that where a Court has no 
jurisdicion, it cm merely declare its own incompetency^ 
and can make no order as to costs. It was so held by 2)ir 
E. Creasy in No- 33.130 Kandy, (2), and by Sir R. (Jay ley 
in two cases reported in Grenier (1874) p 20. Mr. 6eneoL 
ratne, however, contended that the doctrme on which those 
csaes were decided ha-, si.xe been abandoned in Great 
Northern Commitieg v. Inett (3}, and cases there referred to ; 
and further relied on / oe/> v. i. 65, which does not seem to 
have been cited in the cases decided in this Court. The 
•question thus raised is one deserving of consideration, and 
there being decisions of two Chief Justices of this Court 
on the same side, based on Lawford v. Partridge and the 
English Cases, I think it desirable that if these decisions are 

(i) a6 L J., Ex., 147 ; I H. & N., 621. S. C. 

(2) Civil Minutes of the Supreme Court, 8th June 1865. 

(3) L. R., 2 Q. B. D., 284. 



40 

to be reviewed it should be if possible by the full Courts 
Unless, therefore, it be necessary to review those decisions 
on this appeal, I should prefer not to enter upon that ques- 
tion. I do not think it is necessary, and for this reason-^ 
that, conceding, for he purposes of argument, that a Court 
of Requests may have power to give costs where a de en- 
dant has been summoned before it in a matter over which 
ib has no jurisdiction, I do not think that the Court of 
Requests ought to give costs in a case like the present, 
where no objection to the jurisdiction was taken by the 
defend mt party. 

I think, therefore, that the order appealed against should 
be set aside so far as it directs plaintiff to pay defendants* 
cos*s» As the appeal only partly succeeds, the appeal pell* 
tion embracing an appeal on the point of jurisdiction, which 
appeal has been abandoned, we should give no costs m 
appeal. 

DiAB, J., concurred. 

Glabbncb, J., intimated, after the delivery of the above- 
judgment, that both he and his brother DiAS had formed an 
opinion on the question of jurisdiction to grant costs, which 
they did not think it expedient to declare now, in view of 
the former decisions of the Supreme Court. 

Order as to costs set aside. 

Proctor for appellant, D* H. de Silva. 
Proctors for respondents, D. E. de 5. fPickramasinghe ; />: 
y, Oleyesekere. 

[See C. R. Colombo No. 20,813, 3 S. C C, 23, where 
Bbbwick, J. gave costs, while holding that the Court below 
had no jurisdiction over the action. See also Dias v. Tereray 
D* C. Colombo 83,181, in Appendix £.J 



41 

l^ih and 2'th jfuly^ 1882. 

Present— Clasbncb, J. 

C. R. \ PiTCHE Cannbn Assary ^y~^^^^ ^^ 

Colombo, > V. -^^ Uo'M^iArf ^^^t^/^/^^ 

30,492. J M. Arunasalbm Assary. yf/Xy-A'^^- 

Stamp — Cancella ion of, under se.t 9 of Ord* 23 of 187 1 
'^Adoption by maker of piomis^orif note of Stamp -vendor s 
dale on stamp -^Completed note handed by maker to payee-^ 
Estoppels 

Plaintiff as payee sued the maker of a promissory note dated 31 st 
April 1879, which defendant impug^ned as a forgery. The ^stamp on 
the note was affired at the left-hand top corner of the pai«r and had 
the maker's name written across it. It bore also some illegible initials 
and .under them the date 2I-4-79 apparently put by the stamp^vendor. 
The Court below after evidence called for the plaintiff held the note not 
duly stamped and nonsuited the plaintiff. 

Held (following O. C. Colombo 63,498, Civ, Min, of S,C.t 13th July 
1875) ^^^^* ^^^ stamp^ vendor's date on the stamp being even, with the 
date of execution of the instrument, the maker must be taken in cancelU 
ing the stamp with his signature to have adopted the date already on 
the stamp as his date of cancellation, and that therefore the stamp was 
duly cancelled as required by section 9 of the Stamp Ordinance, and 
consequently the note was duly stamped. 

SemhU^ that if the maker had tendered to the payee the note in ques4 
tion as a note duly stamped aud signed by him self ^the appearance 
of the note itself being consisteni with its being such — the Court would 
accq>tthe note as duly stamped, until defendant showed the contrary, 
subject to any question of estoppel. 

This was an action by the payee against the maker of a 
promissory note. The defendant in person pleaded ** never 
indebted,** and declared the note a forgery, alleging a con^ 
spiracy between plaintiff and the witnesses to the note. 

At the trial, after plaintiff had called evidence to prove the 
due execution of the note, '* Mr. Perera for the defendant 
pointed out that the promissory note was imperfect* The 
Stamp had not been duly cancelled as provided by clause 9 
of Ord. 23 of 187 1." The Court (J. E, Smart, Commr.) 
then ruled as follows : '^ I think this objection* is a good one 
and must be noticed. The action is entirely on the pro^ 
missory note, and as the instrument is not duly stamped it 
must fail. Plaintiff is nonsuited with costs," 

In appeal by the plaintiff* 



. 42 . 

XjrenUr, for the appellant, contended that the note was 
^uly stamped, inasmuch as the maker must be taken to have 
adopted, as the date of cancellation of the stamp, the date 
already put thereon by the stamp. vendor as the date of sale> 
which" happened also to be the date of the making of the 
note. It was so held by the Supreme Court in D. C. 
Colombo 63,498 (i)- 

Lornhorst, for the respondent — The words of the pth 
section of the Stamp Ordinance are clear and enact that no 

instrument *' shall be deemed duly stamped unless 

the person required by this Ordinance to cancel the adhe- 
sive stamps atfixed to the instrument^ cancel the same by 
writing or marking in ink, on or across the stamp, his name 

or initials ; together with the true date of his so writing 

or marking, so that every stamp may be e£Eectually cancelled 
and rendered incapable of being used for any other instru* 
ment." If the rule of this section be enforced* there will 
in every case be two dates on every stamp, which will at 
once show that it has been already used, and so fulfil the 
purpose- of the rule. To relax the rule would be to open a 
door to the re-use of old stamps in cases where the initials 
are identical, or are illegible. 

I 

Cur, adv. vult* 

(27th July). Clarence, J. — This action purports to be 
brought by the payee against the maker of a promissory 
note for Rs. 70, bearing date the 21st April 1879. The 
defence pleaded is, that the note is not the note of defen^ 
dant, but a forgery. At the trial the plaintiff called some 
witnesses to prove that defendant brought the note to 
plaintiff and handed it to plaintiff ready stamped and signed. 
He also called some more witnesses to prove some admis« 
sion as made by defendant. Defendant then, according to 
the Commissioner's note, took an objection that the note 
sued on was ** imperfect by reason of the stamp not being 
duly cancelled as required by section 9 of Ordinance No, 23 
of 187 1." Defendant, I suppose, drew attention to the note 
as unstamped. On the note being tendered in evidence it 
might, if unstamped, be objected to on that ground, and I 
assume that on plaintiff's tendering in evidence this note. 



(i) Civil Minutes ot S. C, 13th July 1875. See Appendix B. 



themakiflg of which- defendant denies, defendant objected 
that the note was anstamped'. By section 8, if the stamp 
on the note has not been cancelled as required by section 9^ 
the note is in effect an unstamped note* 

Uponr the question, whether or no the stamp has been 
duly cancelled, the materials are simply these. The note 
bears a stamp across which is written- a signature purporting 
to be that of defendant, and underneath that signature are 
written some scarcely legible initials, and' beneath* those 
initials,, close to the lower edge of the stamp, is the date 
" 2i/4/79r*' which is the date of the note. The suggestion 
offered by defendant i^, I suppose,, that that date was^ 
written by the stamp-vendor who sold the stamp, and not 
by the maker of the note, and that under those circum** 
stances the stamp has not been cancelled as required by 
section 9. Certainly the appearance of the figures in ques- 
tion favours the supposition of their having been written, by 
the stamp'Vendor. 

Now to my mind it is not necessary that the person 
cancelling a stamp should with his own very fioger9 write 
on it the date of cancellation. The Legislature is not likely 
to have meant that no one should be able to cancel a stamp- 
who could not write figures. Without entering into details* 
I can imagine ways in which the maker of an instrument 
might utilise a date already written by another hand. lii: 
the case cited by Mr. Grenier,D. C. Colombo 63,498 (i)*> 
thiss Court seems to have approved the opinion of the 
learned District Judge of Colombo, that the maker of a note 
may adopt a date written by the stamp^vendor, by sub"* 
scribing his name to it» 

But so far as this case has gone, there is no finding upon 
the evidence^ as to the trvith or ontruth of plaintiff's state** 
ment that defendant brought the note to him ready signed 
and with the stamp * on it. Now if it be the fact that 
defendant oame to plaintiff and tendered to plaintiff this 
note as a note duly stamped and signed by himself-^the 
appearance of the note being consistent with its being such 
— then I should accept the note as duly stamped unless and 
until defendant shows the contrary, subject of course to any 
difficulty which might lie in his way in the nature of aa 
estoppel. 



(1) Civil Minutes of S. C, 13th Jaly z875. See AppeadU B. 



44 

Set aside, and the case sent back for further trial and 
adjudication, with liberty to both parties to adduce further 
evidence* AH costs to be costs in the cause. * ^ 

Set aside. Further trials 

Proctor for plaintiff, 5*. C* Oleyesekere. 
Proctor for defendant, y. L, Ferera, 



1st September y 1882. 
Present^CLARENCB, J. 

J. P. "J The QaBBN v. Abmitaoe. 
Colombo, > 
3,111. J Ex parte ARyLiThQE. 

jurisdiction of Supreme Court over case in which accused 
have been committed Jor trial before it ^ Case not yet on 
Calendar^ 

The two parties committed for trial in this case before the Supreme 
Court at Colombo on charges of theft, stellionatus, &c., moved the 
Court for a transfer of the prosecution to the current Session of the 
Court at Kandj, on the ground that the first defendant's medical 
advisers had directed him to leave the Island as soon as possible ; and 
that the Colombo Session would delay his departure over two months. 

Heldt that, the Justice of the Peace being Junclus officw, the Supreme 
Court had jurisdiction to make the order asked for. 

Held also, that sufficient cause bad not been shown for making such 
order* 

Grenier, for the accused, moved the Court for a transfer 
of this prosecution from the next Criminal Session of the 
Supreme Court at Colotpbo (to commence on loth Novem-^ 
ber) to the current Session at Kandy. He read an affidavit 
from the first accused^ which set out that he, the accused, 
together ^ith Charles Cyrus Armitage, the second accused, 
had been committed for trial nl the November Session of 
the Supreme Court on the charges of (r) conspiracy to 
defraud, (2) theft and (3) false pretences ; that he, the first 
accused, had had an attack of acute dysentery and conges- 

/ 

I ■ I ■ ■ . I ■ ■ - . ■ - ■ I 

* At the farther trial before the same Commissioner, after further 
evidence called ior the plaintiff, the Court was not satisfied that de« 
fendant had signed the note^ and again nonsuited plaintiff. In appea/, 
before Clarence, J., on 22nd February 1883* the same Counsel ap« 
pearing as upon the first appealy this judgment was affirmed^ ' 



45 

tion of the lungs on the jrd Alay last, and had continued ill 
since then* his illness being aggravated by the anxiety and 
trouble attending the criminal proceedings against him. A 
medical certificate was annexed to the affidavit as part thereof, 
signed by Drs. Vanderstraaten and Tothill, who s ated 
that they had been in attendance upon the deponent for the 
last four months, and were of opinion that his health would 
suffer seriously if he were prevented from leaving the Island 
at once, and that a serious relapse might be apprehended 
from any delay. 

Nellt Acting Deputy Queen's Advocate, opposed the 
motion on behalf of the Crown, upon the following grounds : 

1. The proposed transfer is impracticable. 1'he papers 
connected -with the prosecution cannot be got ready in time. 
Though Mr. Grenier had stated the Kandy Session would 
continue till about the r 5th inst., the Q. A had on reference 
learnt that the probable date of closing would be the 9th 
inst. Further, the Criminal Session at Ma tale has beeh 
proclaimed to be held on the nth inst. The Justice of the 
Peace consumed 15 days in going through the documentary 
evidence in the case, there being quite a little library of 
Mercantile Books produced. 

2. E. C. Britton, an accused in the case, is oat of the 
Island, and proceedings will have to be taken under the neyir 
Fugitive Criminals Act for his apprehension. The Crown 
proposes to try him on the • same indictment with the first 
two accused, the first count being for conspiracy to defraud. 
[ Clabencb, J. — That would deprive the other accused of 

the benefit of his evidence. J That is for the accused's 
Counsel to consider. [ Clarence, J.— When I was 
Queen's Advocate I alwavs took that circumstance into 
consideration.] 

3. The case involves the consideration of complicated 
commercial matters, and a jury composed of Mercantile men 
is a necessity, both in the interests of the piosecution and 
of the accused.. Suck a jury cannot well be secured in 
Kandy. 

4. The Court has not jurisdiction to make the order. 
Section 45 of Ord. 11 of i868 enacts that a prisoner shall 
he, tried at the next ensuing session of the Supreme Court 
after his committal, at which he may properly be tried- 
This section must be read in connection with §§ ^^ and 35. • 
The names of these accused will appear in due course in 



40 

the r'alendar of the November Session at 'Coltimbo Bt?t 
Ihere is no provision in this Ordinance for the transfer of ar 
case hefore it is put apon the Calendar at alK There is now 
no prosecution pending before the Su*pFeme Court against 
these accused. Section 22 of the Ordi nance provides for 
the transfer of cases on the Calendar only. [ Clarbnob, J. 
— The J. P. has parted with his jurisdiction— he could not 
now discharge the accused, for instance. The Su;9rem& 
Court must therefore have jurisdiction ] Had the case been 
op the present Kandy Calendar, the motion to transfer the 
case to Colombo might have been allowed under §r 22* 
Section 35 directs a mandate to issue to the Fiscal to make 
a return of the persons in his custody committed for trial. 
On his return to this mandate (which is the Calencjar) the 
cases are to be considered as pending before the Supreme 
Court. Then under | 37, the Supreme Court can only 
inquire into such cases as the Queen's Advocate elects to 
prosecute before it. The committal of the accused is for 
trial at Colombo : if therefore a transfer be now made ta 
Kandy, the prosecution there will not be at the election o^ 
the Queen's Advocate. If the commitment be bad on the 
face of it, a Judge of the Supreme Court may discharge 
accused ; but if the commitment be good, the Supreme- 
Court can make no order till after the Fiscal's return. 

Then as to the affidavit. It is insufficient. The ilL 
health of an accused is not a suflScient ground for a transfer. 
The medical certificate merely states that the accused will 
suffer severely j but he may recover before November. The 
fair implication in the statements of the affidavit seems to 
be that by a transfer to Kandy the accused n>ay hdve the 
chance of leaving the Island after an acquittal* Further, this 
certificate may be modified on a cross-examination of the 
medical men, and it does not even state what the accused's 
ailment is, and is quite devoid of particulars* 

Even granting that^ the Court has the power contended 
for under § 22, the application c^n only be allowed '* if the 
ends of justice will gain by the transfer." Where questions 
of such large mercantile matters arise, Colombo is the only 
* suitable place for the trial. The application comes very 
late too, near the end of the Kandy sessions, and if th^ 



47 

transfer be made, the Crowa will probably have to move for 
a postponement there. The same applicatioa, on the same 
insafficient grounds, may be made in ev^ry case. 

Gremer^ in reply— I have no desire that this case should 
be treated differently from all others. 

I. The objection of impracticability conveys an imputa* 
tion on the Queen's Advocate department which surprises 
me. The case was committed on the direction of the 
Queen's Advocate, and the evidence, documentary and o'her** 
wise, should have been fully prepared before such committal. 
f Clarence, J-— The J. P. generally commits only on a 
prima facie case, which has atterwards to be elaborated ] 

- 2. As to Britton's absence — [Clarence, J. — I am with 
yon in thinking that no cause has been shown on that 
ground.] 

3. As to the necessity for a mercantile jury. The ob" 
jection is a reflection on the character of the Kandy Jury. , 
£ Clarbncb, J. — I do not think Mr. Nell intended anv 
reflection at all. It is well known that juries in Kandy are 
composed chiefly of planters who naturally are not very 
conversant with mercantile matters.] A mercantile jury 
need not necessarily try this case. - U this were a civil case, 
I coul4 understand the application for a mercantile jury or 
assessors. But this is a criminal matter, which any in* 
telligent jury is competent to determine. 

4. As to the Ordinance, § 33 does not apply. The 
mandate provided for by § 33 is entirely a matter of con- 
venience for the Supreme Court. It does not follow that 
merely because a committed case is not inserted in the 
Calendar therefore it is not pending before the Court before 
wbich it is set down for trial. What if there be no return 
to the mandate, or if the Calendar be lost ? § 45 empowers 
the Supreme Court to admit to bail any person awaiting 
trial before it. If the case be not pending before the 
Supreme Court, how can that Court make such order ? 

Mr. Nell thought an application for a postponement 
would have been more favourably viewed. I think other* 
wise : it would ,have been construed into a desire to 
evade our liability. Here we move for a more speedy 
tt-ial. I guard myself carefully from making any reflection 



• 48 

on the imparl iali'y of a raprcan ile jury, and also from ex- . 
pressing the slightest reluctance to go before such a jury, 
if one can be had to-mcrrow. 

At the request of the Court Qrenier then read over the 
passage in the affidavit having reference to the deponent's 
illness. 

Clabencf, J. — This js a matter calling for prompt and 
speedy disposal. If I have not the jurisdiction to nfake the 
order ask(^d for, cadit quaestio* I am of opinion that the 
matter is now depending before this court. The* Justice of . 
the Pejice \sjunctus officii, and the matter must, be pending 
before this court, and so I have jurisdiction. I am naturally ^ 
delicate about addi'g to the labors of a brother judge sitting 
in Kandy, and shall promptly inform him if I make tha 
order asked for. I knovtr probably much less of the case than 
any other membec of the public, but I know enough to feel 
sure that difficult questions of mercantile usage will arise 
ai the trial, and it is therefore 'prima fade more desirable 
that a mercantile jury should try the case, than that it should 
go before an agricultural jufy like that sitting in Kandy, 
though that is a very good jury for some purposes. There 
roust be some inconvenience, no doubt, in the taking of the 
documentary evidence and the witnesses (most of them 
probably resident in Colombo) to Kandy. I have con« 
sidered the affidavit and, without intending to cast any 
reflection on the medical gentlemen, I must 'say thtir certiti- 
cate does not appear to me sufficient. What I have heard 
also onvinces me that the interests of justice will not be 
served by transferring the case against the will of the Q'ieen's 
Advocate. I can perfectly understand the position of the 
unfortunate^ gentleman who has to wait so long with a 
sword hanging over his head; but I do not feel that 1 shall 
be justified in making the order asked for. 

• Order refused. 



49 

2';th June, and 8/A September, 1882. 

Present— De Wbt, A. C J., and Glarbncb and Dias, J J* 

D. C. Colombo ^ HABysT, Brand & Co. 

Special > v. Sc > S^f-CC/ «flb . 

No. 30. J Hbdgbs and another. 

Equitahle assignment of mortgage debt -^ Insolvency ^^ 
\ * Order and disposition' of Insolvent}— Trust. 

M., the owner of a coffee estate, mortgaged it to W. & Co. as secu. 
rity for funds sappUcd and to oe supplied to him by W. 4e €0. for tho 
working of ttie estate. W. ^ Go. snbseqaently, with notice to M., en4 
tered into an agreement with H B. & Co. that the latter should advance 
to W. & Co. the monies necessaiy for them to keep their engagement 
with M., W. ft Co* undertaking to hold the securities created by the 
mortgage bond as trustees t(» H. B. & Ce. to tbe extent of their ad» 
vances to W. & Co. W. & Co. having become insolvent, their assignees 
(the defendants) claimed the sum due upon the bond (which bad been 
deposited in the bands of a stakeholder) Ujit the bencht of the general 
creditors as agains^t H. B. & Co. 

deld^ that the agreement of W. & Co. with H. B. & Co. constituted 
an cqaitable assignment to the latter of the former's rif^hts under the 
mortgage though the indiaa of title had remained with W. & Co. 

"Held, that therefore the right of action on the mortgage (which had 
been a chose in action in the order and disposition of tbe ins6ivent) did 
not pass to tbe assignees for the benefit of tbe general creditors, and 
that H. B. & Co. Were entitled to tbe sum deposited as due under the 
mortgage bond* 

This was a Special Case suhmitted to the District Court 
for decision, and set out the following facts : 

I. In July 1871, Adolph Carl Theobald Meyer mort* 
gaged his estate called '' Tientsin*' and its crops to Messrs. 
Wall & Co, to secure their past (^3i5oo) and future ad- 
vances to him for the cultivation of the estate. 

a. On and June 1873, Wall & Co. executed a deed, the 
material part of which was as follows : 

•' And whereas Wall & Co. have requested Messrs, 
Harvey, Brand & Co. of London to lend and advance to them 
certain snms of money for the purpose of carrying out their 
said engagement with Meyer, which H. B. & Co. have 
agreed to do on the condition that for all sums to be advanc- 
ed to W. & Co. as aforesaid, W. & Co. should hold tbe 
securities created in their favor by the said hereinbefore 
recited bonds, deeds and agreements in trust for the said 
H. B. & Co. Therefore know ye that the said W. & Co., 
\n Consideration of the premises and in pursuance of the 
iBst'mentioQed agreement and for the purpose of securing 



50 

to the said H. B.'& Co. the repayment of aH moneys to 
be advanced as aforesaid, do for themselves, their heirs, 
executors^ administrators and assigns, hereby declare and 
agree that W. & Co. shall stand and be possessed of the 
said mortgages and other securities created in their favor by 
the said several bonds> deeds, agreements, to wit, bond of 
7th and 29th December 1868, deed of 12th January, 2 5th 
February, and 5th Mardi 1869, bond of loth August 1869 
and said agreement of 19th July iSji, as Trustees for'H. 
B. & Go« and for their heirs and assigns to the extent of all 
sum or sums of money to be advanced by the said H. B. & 
Co. for the purposes of the said agreement and free from 
^any prior claim or right to the same securities which W. & 
Co. 01 their heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns have 
or may have by virtue of the said several bonds, &c., or 
otherwise." 

3. Meyer, on <6th October 1873, wrote to H. B. & Co. as 
follows : ' 

•* With reference to a deed executed by Messrs. George 
Wall and Co, of Colombo transferring ^f 5,500 of the debt 
due by me on Tientsin estate to you, which they are entitled 
to do under and by virtue of my agreement with them 
dated 19th July 18 71, 1 beg to state that I am quite agreea* 
ble to the transfer thereby made, and confirm the same.*' 

4. Meyer died on 2nd May 1877 leaving a will, and 
Letters of Administration with will annexed were granted 
on 8ch January 1878 to plans Budde by the D istrict Court 
of Kandy. 

5. Wall and Co. continued their advances under deed 
of 187 1 until 25th June 1879. 

6. Wall and Co. were declared insoly ent on 5th March 
1880, and Messrs. G. Hedges and E. A. Bosanquet were 
appointed assignees of their insolvent estate. 

7. On 30th June 1880 the amount due to George Wall 
and Co. under agreement of 19th July 187 !> by Meyer or 
bis administrator, was £e. S7»^^9-^S' 

8« H. B. & Co. duly made advances to Wall and Co. for 
the purposes of the deeds of 19th July 187 i and 2nd June 
1873, and tbere is now due to EI. B. & Co. from Wall and 
Co. a sum of £ 4,636 is. 3d. for such advances up to 30th 
June i88o. 

The question submitted to the Court is, whet her the said 
amount of &. 57)849*85 passes by the insolvency of Wall 



51 

and Ca. to the assignees,. Messrs. Hedges and Bosanquet, 
for the benefit of the general creditors y or whether H* 
B. & Co. are entitled to recover the said amount o£ 
£49^3^ ^^ 3^» under and by virtue and in terms of the 
said deed of J one 1 873, with interest at 8 per cent from jotb 
June 1880 (or its equivalent in rupees) ; and who should 
pay the costs of this special case* 

This special case was argued in the District Court before 
Mr. O. W. C. Morgan > the Acting Judge> who held as 
follows : 

I. That the deed of 2nd June 1875 dreated a valid trust 
in favor of Harvey Brand and Co., and was not what the 
Assignees contended, " an equitable assignment/' ' 

a. That Wall and Co. were not ** reputed owners" or 
holders of the mortgages, within the meaning of the 49th 
clause of the Insolvents Ordinance* 

3' That though there was no statement oa this pointy 
it was probable that the title deeds of Tientsin estate were 
in the possession of H, B. & Co., and not of W. & Co., 
as otherwise the assignees would have produced them- 

4. That it was admitted that the correct form of pro:» 
ceeding would have been under the 53rd clause of the Ordi;* 
nance. 

5. That, upon these findingSrthe sum of Bs. 57>849'85 
did not pass to the assignees for the benefit of the general 
creditors, but that H. B. & Co. were entitled to recover 
£^3636, I. 3. under the deed of June 1873 with the in* 
terest claimed, or its equivalent in rupees at current rate of 
exchange 5 and that th& costs of the special case should be 
paid by the assignees. 

On app'eal by the Assignees, the Supreme Court (consist" 
ing of Clarbncb, A. C. J., and Dias, J.) on 21st March 
1882 reversed the decree of the District Court, holding that 
H. B. & Co. were npt entitled to draw the sum of £ 4,636. 
I. 3. The following are the material points in the 
Supreme Court judgment^ delivered by Clarence, A. C. J. 

I. The instrument of 2nd June 1873 does not transfer 
to H. B. & Co. any mortgage, nor does it purport to. The 
arrangement seems to have been that W. & Co., as between 
themselves and the debtor^ should continue to be the mort- 
gagees. It does not appear that the mortgages or any title 



52 

deeds which accompaaied them ia the hands of W« St Co. 
were handed over to H. B & Co. We presume that if tfie 
deeds had be^n so handed over, the Case would have said 
so. The natural inference from the expression ** stand 
possessed of the said mortgage, Ike, on trust" is« that the 
deeds remained with Wall & Co. W« & Co's debt to H. 
B . & Co. is less than Meyer's to W. & Co, 

2. If this be all, it seems clear that H. B. & C. could 
not have sued Meyer eitder for the whole debt or for the 
amount of their own advances to W. & Co* The letter to, 
ti. B. & Co. does not carry the matter any further. What 
was the notice which U. B. & Co. actually gave to Meyer » 
the Case does not say ) but if the letter he correct, it was 
a notice that W. 6l Co. bad assigned to U. B. & Co. £ 5,500 
of the debt then owing by Meyer to W. & Co. If this was 
the notice^ it was not correct in stating the purport of the 
deed of 2nd Jane 1873, the essence of which seems to have 
been that W, & Co* should remaia the creditors of Meyer* 
H. B. & Co. can be no better o£C than if ibeir notice to 
lleyer stated the facts accurately. 

3. Consequently, this sum of Bs. 57*849*85 represents 
a debt due from Meyer's representatives to the estate o£ 
W, & Co. The present case is quite different from the 
English cases cited, which were cases of equitable assign.* 
ments, where the equitable assignee had a right to sue 9 
whereas here the arrangement seems to have been that 
th.<!i original creditor should continue to have the power of 
claiming the debt4 The registration of the deed of June 
1873 does not alter the matter. 

4. Trust property, ex naturdy does not pass to an as* 
signee in Insolvency. "Section 53 of the Ordinance merely 
provides procedure for getting the nominal ownership of 
trust property out of insolvent Trustees. If U. B. & Co, 
are held entitled to this ;£' 4.636. i. 3* as cestuis que trustentt 
their obtaining an order under section 53 would be mere 
ma!;ter c^ procedure to obtain payment. This ;f 46 j6. i. 3. 
cannot be deemed " trust property" exempt from the claims 
of creditors* The facts amount to no more than this ; 
Meyer owes money to W. & Co., and it is in contempla- 
tion that a running account shall be kept ijp between them. 
W. & Co. contemplate incurring a debt to H. B. & Co., and 
say to them *' To the extent of our debt to you we will hoM 
Meyer's debt to us in trust for yott«** If the existence of 



53 

stlch a trust as this is to avail against the trustee's credttor«j 
theD) upon the same principle, if a roan buys goods of a 
tradesman and says to the tradesman, <* I will not pay you 
noWj but I will consider myself tiustee of the money fur 
yoU)*' that would be a trust availing against the purchaser's 
creditors in the event of his becoming insolvent. lathis 
^4636. I. 3 really belongs to W,^, & Co. as cestuis que 
irustenty then it is in the reputed ownership* of W. & Co. 
with their consent^ in which case W & Go's, assignee will 
be entitled on application to an order under section 49. 

The case now came again before the Supreme Cour% on 
the 27th of June, on the petition of Messrs. Harvey, Brand 
& Co. that the case might be heard in review preparatory 
to an appeal to Uer Majesty in Privy Council. 

Greater (FdnLangenherg and Layard with hina) for Messrs- 
Harvey, Brand & uo , the appellants> opened the above facts 
to the Court. [ Db Wet, A. C J. — Why was there no 
' cession of the mortgage bond to H. B. & Co. ?] We 
cannot tell. That Would have been the safer course. But 
here there is no attempt to enforce the mortgage bond ; the ^ 
land is not sought to be touched. Meyer the debtor says 
(by his administrator Glaus Budde) " Here is the money. 
Yon settle between you, which of you is entitled to it." 
[DiAS, J. — How are we to know how much of that money 
was Wall's, and how much H. B. & Co's-?] That ques- 
tion does not arise (though answered in the special case), 
for if there be a confusion of funds, and there be enough 
to satisfy the cestui qiie trust, his ckim must first be dis* 
charged. The cestui qui trust could have followed goods if 
they had been bought with his money or money intended 
for him. Meyer's letter of 6th October 1873 confirms the 
4rust in favor of H. B. <& Co. 3 and if that money can be 
ascertained, the cestui que trust is entitled to get it. A trust 
need not be created by deed; it may be verbally. The 
authorities ^o the length of saying that, where money is 
given to an agent for a specific purpose which he fails to 
carry out (if, for instance, he buys on credit having appro* 
priated the funds) even though he be recognised as ** re* 
puled owner," yet every coin of that money is impressed 
^ith the trust 5 and if the agent become insolvent, his 
principal can claim the goods which he may be taken to 
have bought with the money, though it is not so in fact. 



^ I 



54 

There can be no stronger case on this point than Harris v. 
Iruwan (i) decided in the Queen's Bench by Justices 
Field, Manistt and 6ow£n in October 1881 ; in 
which it was held that the mere course of dealing 
between a principal and his agent, apart from any ex- 
press agreeraenty was sufficient to establish a trust, and 
impress with it gpods which the agent had parchased on 
credit though supplied with funds which he had spent 
otherwise. See also^ judgment of JbsseLi M. R., In re 
SalletCs Estate, {%) [Keads judgments ot the District and 
Supreme Courts in the present case]^ The question of 
** reputed ownership" was not submitted to the Court for 
adjudication; had it; been, the District Judge should have 
called for evidetice on the point, which was no^ touched by 
the Special Case. It cannot be said that here W. & Co. 
were "reputed owners with consent of the true owners. 
Trust property, held by an insolvent, does not vest in his 
assignee for the benefit of general creditors. Robson's 
Practice in Bktcy,, p. 398, and authorities there cited. 
[Clarencb, J. — No authority is needed for that proposi.. 
tion]. If H. B.<& Co, advanced this money to be givea 
to Meyer (which purpose W. & Co. faithfully carried out) 
there was a trust established ; and why should we presume 
it was advanced for any other purpose ? To sum up :— • 
The question of mortgage and security is beside the present 
case. There is no prayer for preferepce as mortgageesv 
H. B. Co advanced money to W. & Co. for a specific pur- 
pose^ known to the debtor Meyer« and that purpose wasi 
carried out bv W. & Co. There is. here no question even 
of fraud by an agent. The debtor says, ** Here is the money 
which I by my letter to H B. <fc Co. authorised W. & Co. 
to pay — the money of which I had notice that it belonged 
to H. B. & Co. — the money that came through Wall & Co. 
'merely as the agents of H. B. <& Co. for its transmission.'^ 
That money being ascertained ---never having formed part 
of W. & Co*s insolvent estate — is still impressed with the 
trust, and must go to Messrs, Harvey, Brand and Co. 

fpithers for the assignees, contra — H. B. & Co. apparently 
have two grounds of claim, (i) as equitable assignees* (2) 
2iS cestuis que trustent. But as to (i), the Supreme Court 

(i) 45 L. T., N. S., 255. 

Affirmed in appeal, L. R„ 9 Q. B. D , 264. 
(2) L, R., 13 Ch. D., 690, 707, 



5 



K 



has held there was no such equitable rii^ht. as the indicia 
of title had not been handed over to K. B & Co. As to 
(2). this case is distinguishable from Harris v- Truman : 
there there was a fraudulent failure to perform a tru^t, but 
here the trust has been dii^charged by fulfilment of the 
specific purpose. Three things were necessary for a good 
trust, (i] sufficient words to create i^, (z) a definite subject > 
and (3) a certain or ascertained object. Now, here there 
are no sufficient words. The deed of June 1873 does not 
say that W.& Go. will hold the sums of money, as received, 
in trust for H. B. & Co , but the mortgages and securities. 
This is no nice distinction, as appears from the judgment of 
Lord Abinger, C. B., in Gibson v. Overbury (3), which was 
an action in trover to recover certain indicia of tide, where 
the deposit was intended merely to bind the papers and not 
to transfer the security, and it was held there was no trust 
of the debt secured by them. But assuming that this is 
trust property and that the sum in court represents the 
advances by U. B. & Go , the property will still fall under 
the ** order and disposition" clause, and be for the benefit 
of the general creditors. That clause affects cestuis que 
trtisient as much as true owners. *' By true owner is me4nc 
he who has the right to determine the appearance of ownc r^ 
ship in the bankrupt, whether legal or equitable." Couid 
H. B. & Co. have taken these papers out of W. & Gj's. 
hands ? Wall & Go might have assigned the debt over to a 
third party and handed the deeds to )iim. [De Wbt, 
A.C.J. — Would that not be fraudulent in W. &Co?J 
Fraudulent certainly -, but yet it Was a possible contingency. 
The deed of 2nd June 1873 is called an '' agreement," but 
it is only a deed poll, and its execution is not even endorsed 
on the mortgage bond of 1871. A third party might have 
acquired a better title than H. B. & Co. if he had taken an 
assignment for valuable consideration, I challt^nge my 
learned friend to show a single case in which an insolvent 
has been permitted at his own choice to give preference to 
one creditor, as cestui que trust , over another. I know a 
case (which i cannot now lay my hands on) in which an 
agent had misapplied part of the funds given him for a 
specific investment, and wishing to make amends had effects 
ed an insurance on his own life and had with the other 
securities left the policy with an indorsement on it reciting 

(3) 7 M. & W., 555. 



66 

thqse fac^s ; and it was held that die trust affected the 
amount of ihe insurance. But there is no one case in which 
an insolvent was allowed to draw up a deed poll declaring 
hiS' property in trust tor any one of hit} creditors. To allow 
this Would be to make room for any number of fraudulent 
preferences. W. & Go's trust extends only to the securities, 
and not to the amount secured ; which should theretore go 
to the assignees. 1 here is one dit!lculty, however ; what 
were these securities for ? For moneys advanced to Mejer, 
If at his death there had been a certain sum due, the bond 
might have been put in suit against his representative' for 
such sum. But here advances had been continued to fiudde 
for two years after Meyer's death. Those were new debts 
contracted by Budde, and he would certainly by English 
Law be held personally responsible. These were 'debts 
outside the mortgage bond, which could not be enforced 
against Budde for debts contracted atier the mortgagor 
Meyer's, death. Wall S£> (Jo. would have no preferential 
claim for those advances., 

Grenier, in reply — Taking the last argument for Respon* 
dent first, it is disposed of by the piovision in the iiiurtgaga 
bond that it should bind the heirs, executors and adminis^ 
trators of the parties to it j and, further, the special Case 
makes no difference between advances to Meyer himself and 
to his administrator. As to the duration of advances, it is 
only necebsary to say that the advances to Budde were not 
after the expiration of that period. As to the distinction 
drawn in Gibson v. Overbury (3), that case was decided ex* 
pressly on the ^* reputed ownership" clause, and therefore 
has no bearing on the present case. [Reads section 49 of 
Insolvents Ordinance] This money m deposit never got 
into W. 8i Go's hand.N How then can it be said to have 
, been in their -* order and disposition with the consent of the 
true owners" ? It is quite plain from the words creating 
the trust, that whatever money was repaid was intended to 
go to.H. B & Co. The true purport of the enactment in 
«he** reputed ownership** clause is well explained by the 
Master of the Rolls in Ez parte Mng fields Re Florence (4), 
to be that, where an insolvent is seen in the possession of 
another's gobds, so as to get false credit on the appearance 
of ownership in himself, the true owner should forfeit his 



(3) 7 M. & W., 555. I (4) L. R., 10 Ch. D., 594. 



67 

property, which shculd goto the iasoIveat*s geaeral credi- 
tors, la the present case, would any one have given W.. & 
Co. credit on account of the first bond* which had been 
superseded by another that had been duly registered ? Any 
creditor of W. & Co. would have searched the Registers 
and found the deed of trust registered, and would at once 
have seen that it would have priority under our Registration 
Ordinance. Further, as the learned Chibf Justiob has 
remarked* had there been a subsequent assignment by W. 
& Co., such assignment would have been at Once set aside 
at the instance of H. B. & Co. on the ground of fraud. 

Withers added to the authorities be had cited, Lewin on 
Trusts, nth Ed., p. %%i, to show that a cestui que trust 
absolately entitled would be a ** true owner,*' as in this case 
he could have determined W^* Sc Co's control over the 
deeds. 

Cur. adv. vult* ' 

(8ih September). Db Wbt. A. C. J,— The question for 
decision under the circumstances in the case stated is, 
whether the amount of Rs. 571849*85 due under the agree« 
ment of the 19th July 1871 passes by the insolvency of 
Messrs. George Wall and Co. to Messrs. Hedges and 
Bosanquet, the assignees of the insolvent estate, for the 
benefit of the general creditors of the estate, or whether 
Messrs. Harvev, Brand and Co- are entitled to recover the 
amount of J^ 4636. i. 3. under and by virtue and in terms 
of the deed of 9 nd, June 1873 with interest thei;eon at the 
rate of 8 per cent* per annum from the 13th day of June 
)8Bo. 

Iq Jaly 187 1, the estate called Tientsin situated inNDick-^ 
oya was vested in one Adolph Carl Theobald Meyer, and at 
that date the said Meyer acknowledged himself to be in- 
debted to Messrs. George Wall an\d Co. in the sum of 
£ 3*5oo> 3^^ ^o Secure that sum and Jurther advances to be 
made he entered into an agreement with Messrs* George 
Wall and Co. da^ed the 19th July 1871, and thereby mort- 
gaged, as security for the said sum of £ S>S^^ ^^^ farther 
advances to be made in terms of the said agreement, the 
said Tientsin estate aild crops thereof. Under and by virtue 
of this agreement the relationship existing between the 
parties to the agreement was simply one of debtor and creditor 
—both as regards past advances as well as future advances 



58 

—the debtor mortgaging as security for the said advances 

the Tientsin estate and crops. Upon receipt of advances to 

Meyer he became the absolute owner of the moneys so 

advanced, leaving to Messrs, George Wall and Co. whatever 

right they possessed under the mortgage bonds for repay. 

inent of such moneys. On the 2nd day of June 1873 

Messrs. Wall and Co. executed a deed poll which inter alia 

has the following provision : 

•'And whereas Messrs. George Wall & Co. have requested Messrs. 
Harvey, Brand & Co. of London to lend and advance lo them certain 
sums of money /or the purp'ise oj carrying out their said agreement with 
the said Adotph Carl Theobald M^yer, which the saiJ Haivey, Brand He 
Co. have agr'^ed to do on thecondiuon that for all sums to be acWanced 
to the said George Wall & Co, as afc^resaid, ihey ihe said Gtorge JVall 
& Co. should hi Id the securities created in their Javour by the said 
hereinle/ore ?« part recited londs^ defds and agreements in trust Jor the 
said Harvey, brand and Co., therefore knov^ ye that the said George 
Wall, William Rose and John Smith Findlsy, fading- as afore^ai(l, in 
consideration of the premises and in |)Ui6uance of the last mentioned 
agreement and for the purpose of secvring tn 1 he said Harvey^ Brand & 
Co. the repayment of alt monies to H advanced as afirre aid. do and eacn 
of them doth for them^elves and himself, their and his heirs, executors, 
administrators and assigns htreby dcclaie and a^ree that they the said 
George Wall, William Rose and John Smith F ndlay, trading as afore* 
said, shall stand and be possessed of the said mortgages an'^ other 
fecuritits created in their fa\our by the said several bon<is, deeds and 
agreements ***** to the extent of all sum o. sums of. money to 
be advanced by the saii Harvey « Brand & Co. for the purpose of the 
£aid a^^.reement and free from any prior claim or right to the ame 
FecuiitieSy wfiich the said George Wall, William Rose, and John Siivith 
Fmdlay trading as aforesaid, their heirs, executors, a'ministrators and 
assigns have or may have by virtue of the several bonds, deeds and 
agreements or otherwise." 

The provisions of the deed clearly established ths position 

of Messrs. Harvey, Brand & Co. with reference to the ad« 

vances to be made by them and also to the securities then 

held by Messrs. Wall and Co. Tne moneys to be lent 

and advanced were to be lent- and advanced, for a specific 

purpose, and were to be applied in a specific way. This 

was mutually agreed upon and understood by both the con.» 

tracring parties. The moneys were to be advanced, not for 

the purpose of enabling Messrs. George Wall & Co to deal 

with it as their own, for their own purposes, or in any way 

they pleased, but solely for the purposes for which the 

advances were to be made ; but it was also mutually agreed 

upon that Messrs.' Wall & Co should stand possessed of 

the moneys and the securities as Trustees for the firm of 

Harvey, Brand & Co. to the extent of all sums ol money 

to be advanced by Harvey, Brand & Go. for the purposes of 

the agreement. 



59 

This deed of and June 1873 was duly registered in the 
Registrar of Lands Office, Katnap.ura,. on 4th June 1873 
and signed by the Registrar of Lands. The effect of this 
Registration is obvious— after registration no subsequent 
alienee could acquire a preference over the beads of Harvey^ 
Brand & Co. The original bond debtor apparently ac^ 
quiesced in this new arrangements for on the 6th October 
1873 Adolph AJeyer writes to Messrs- Harvey, Brand & Co. 
as toHows : ** With reference to a deed executed by Messrs. 
George Wall & Co. of Colombo transferring £ j.joo of the 
debt due by me on Tientsin estate to you, which they are 
euti led to do under aud by viftue of the agreement dated 
jpth July 1871, 1 beg to state that lam quite agreeable to 
the transfer thereby made* and confirm the same/' Sub^ 
sequent to the date of the agreement of the znd June 1873, 
certain advances were made by Harvey, Brand & Co., and 
it is admitted ** thai there is notv due to the said Harvey, 
Brand &J* Co^Jrom the said George Wall ^ Co. a sum of 
;f 4636, 1. 3. in respect of such advances*' {i. e. advances 
made for the said purposes of the agreement). 

Qeoi-ge Wall & Co. were declared insolvent on 5th March 
1880, and George Hedges andR^A. Bosanquet were ap^ 
pointed assignees of the insolvent estate. I am of opinion 
that the assignees of the estate are not entitled to tire 
amount last named for the benefit of George Wall & 
CVs. creditors, Harvey, Brand & Co. having advanced that; 
amount, they and they alone are now entitled to claim 
repayment of the same by reason ot the trust created m 
their favour. 

My judgment therefore is, that the judgment of the Court 
below be affirmed with costs in both courts. 

Glare NCB, J. — After hearing this matter reargued in 
review, 1 have come to the conclusion that the order origin 
Dally appealed against was right, and should be restored* 

The facts. are these: — In July 1871 Meyer mortgaged 
Tientsin estate to George Wall & Co. to secure a present 
debt and future advances. Afterwards, in June 1873', 
George Wall & Co. entered into a notarial agreement with 
Harvey, Brand & Co. that in consideration of Harvey, Brand 
& Co. lending them moneys to enable them to make ad- 
vances to Meyer, they would hold Meyer's mortgage in 
trust for Harvey, Brand & Co. to the extent of the moneys 
So advanced by Harvey^ Brand & Co. to them* Meyer died 



60 

in May 1877. George Wall & Co. are indebted to Harvey , 
Brand & Co. for advances made under their agreement •, 
Meyer*s legal representative is indebted in a larger amount 
to George Wall & Co. for advances made under Meyer's 
agreement with them, anc^has paid the amount so due into 
the hands of a stake-holdef. The sum thus in question is 
£^6^6^ I. 3. 

1 think that under these circumstances there is an equi« 
table assignment of that amount of the whole debt, by 
George Wall & Co. to fclarvey, Brand k Co. Now I take 
a debt such as this to be clearly within the '* order and dis- 
position*' section of the Insolvency Ordinance : and if there 
has dot been notice to the debtor of the assignment, the 
debt is in my opinion a chose in dctioft in the reputed owners 
ship of the insolvents> within the meaning of that section- 
Curiously the case does not set out what was the communis 
cation which Harvey^ Brand k Co. made to Meyer about: 
this matter. We only know that in reply to Harvey Brand 
& Co's. communicatioo, whatever it may have been* Meyer 
on the 6th October iBji Wrote to H. B. Be Co. the letter of 
that date^ which admits notice of transfer to H. B. flc.Co. of 
£ 5» joo of the ** debt due by me on Tientsin estate." The 
letter further refers in connection with that debt to an 
agreement, dated ipth July 1871. between Meyer and 
G. W. & Co. The 19th July 1^71 is the date of the 
agreement between Meyer and G. W, & Co. already 
referred to« I take it that we are at liberty to draw 
legitimate inferences of fact from this part of the 
case, and although the proper way of proving the 
notice given would have been to show the terms of the 
notice itself, still the inference which I draw from the 
letter is that Meyer received notice from H. B. & Co. of 
an assignment to them of his debt to G. W. & ('o-, to the 
extent of £ Ji jo*). I think that takes the deed out of the 
reputed ownership of G. W. & Co. to the extent of the 
balance now due from Q. W. & Co, to H. B. & Co. 

I think therefore that the order of the District Judge 
should be affirmed^ and that all costs should follow the 
event* 

Di AS, J.-»[A.fter setting out the facts]. The question 
which we have to decide is, whether by the insolvency of 
Wall & Co. this sum of money had passed to the assignees 
of Wall & Coi, for the the benefit of the general creditors^ 



61 

I 

Dt whether Hanrey, Brand & Go. are entitled to receive 
thereoata sum of £ 4636 is 3d) or its equivalent in rupees* 
The decision of this question turns upon the application of 
the "order and disposition'^ cfanse of the Ord. No. 7 of 
18 j 3 to the facts stated in the Special Case submitted to 
the District Courts 

The deed of 2nd June 1873 appears to me to be some^ 
thing more than a mere mortgage of a debN It is an 
assignment by Wall & CO' of so much of the debt due from 
Meyer to them on the mortgage bond of 19th July 1871 
as woald sufBce 10 pay whatever monies migh( be found 
due to Harvey, Brand &: Co. under the deed of 673. 
Meyer having had notice of this deed cannot successfully 
plead^ as against Harvey, Brand & Co., a payment to Wall 
& Co. Supposing that the deed of 2nd June 1873 only 
amounted to a mere mortgage of a debt, and not to an abso^ 
lute assignment, notice to Meyer the debtor would be as 
e£fectual to secure Harvey » Brand & Co., with regard to 
their claim on the debt from Meyer to Wall & .Co. Braid 
V. Mangles (1). Though the debt was in form of a debt 
due to Wall & Co., it was in substance a debt due to Harvey, 
Brand & Co., to the extent of their claim against Wail <& 
Co. on the deed of the 2nd {une 1873* ^7 ^he arrangement 
of the and of June 1S73 the beneficial interest in the debt 
between Meyer and Wall & Co- passed to Harvey, Brand & 
CO'f to the e^ctent of their advances to Wall & Co. under 
the deed of 2nd June 1873. fpinch v Kec'ey (2). 

If the deed refied on as creating the trust is simply a 
in6rtgage of a debt and nothing more, Harvey, Brand 6c Co. 
should not have left the indicia of ownership in the hands of 
the mortgagors Wall & Co. Whether they were so left or 
not the Special Case does not distinctly say, but assuming 
that all the bonds and deeds were left in the possession of 
Wall & Co.) I do not think it makes any difference. Wall 
& Go. are the mortgagees under the bond of 19th July 187 1, 
The object of the deed of 2nd June 187) confessedly was 
to keep the bond of 19th July 1871 alive. Wall & Co. 
made advances to Meyer under that bond, and by the deed 
of 2nd June 1873 they assigned to Harvey, Brand & Co- 
not the whole, but only so much of the debt of Meyer as 
would be sufficient to meet the advances to be made by 
Harvey. Brand A Co. 

(i) 3 Ex. Rq)., 394, I (2) I T. R., 623, 



62 

^ Under these circumstances it appears to me that 'the poS;. 
session by Wall & Co. of the indicia of ownership is^ consis« 
tent with the trust- On the whole, I agree with the rest of 
the Court that our judgment of the 2>st March iSSz should 
be set aside, and the judgment of the Pistrict Court of [4th 
October 1881 should be affirmed. 

judgment of the Supreme Court 
in Appeal dated 21 si March 
1882 set aside, judgment of 
the District Court appealed 
against affirmed. 

Proctor for the appellants, F. C. Loos. 
Proctor for the respondents* F* 5^- de Saram* 



P* C. <| FONSEKA 

Panadura, > v. Sc fU^l^ 

4,27';. J Pbresa. / 



nth August and ^th September t i382. 
Present ~ Clarence and Dias> J J. 

P* C. -I FoNSEKA 

madui 
4,275' 

Arrack Ordinance. ^\i\^ — Breach of section 26 — Proof of 
possession of licence — Crdinance j oj 188 J, section 3. 

Upon a construction of s<ciion 3 o\ Ordinance No. 5 of 1881, 

Held, that the word "condition" in this section might be construed 

to include the possession of the licence contemplated by section 26 of 

the Arrack Ordilfiarce, 1844 ; and accordingly 

Sejdf that the section under construction cast the burden of proving 

the possession of such licence on the defendant. 

The defendant was charged with a breach of § 26 of Ordi** 
nance No. -lo ot 1844. Evidence was led for the prose- 
cution, and the defendant, was convicted and sentenced to 
two months* imprisonment at hard labor There was \>o 
evidence on the part of the complainant of the absence of a 
hcence, as required by recent decisions of the Supreme 
Court in appeal. The Magistrate {Drielerg) held that the 
burden of such proof was now thrown upon the defendant 
by Ordinance No. 5 of 188 1. The defendant appealed, ' 

Dornhorsti for the appellant^ Notwithstanding the Ordr 
Dance 5 of 1881 the complainant must lead evidence .to sho\ir< 
prima Jade that the defendant had no licence, that being an 



63 

essentia] part of the offeoce. The amending Ordidance 

of 1881 (§ 3), enacted as follows : 

In any nrns^ution for any offence under the said Ordinance [No. to 
of i8443f if the informaiion or plaint in any such case shall iie);ative 
any czcmpiion, proviso, or condition in the said Ordinance, it shall not 
be necessary for the prosecution or complainant in that behalf to gi(re 
evidence of such negative, but the defendant or accused m^y prove ihe 
affirmative thereof in bis defence, if he would have advantage of the 
same. 

My argument is that this section is merely a re- enact*' 
ment of § 65 of Ordinance 16 of 1844, which provided that 
''wherever in any c-.ause of this Ordinance any per>on or 
thing is declared li:«ble to any punishment^ penalty, or 
forfeiture, but certain excepti ms are therein expressed, ex^ 
cepting i-uch persons or things under certain circuni^tancejs 
from such lidbiliies. it shall not be necessjry to aver or 
show in any iuiormation or other proceeding for the prose« 
cation of such olfence, or for the recovery of such penalty 
or forfeiture^ that the defendant or the subject of any such 
proceeding does not cume within any such exception, but 
the prooi thereol shall be upon the defendant.'* Tais clause 
has been held to couiemplate such exceptions as the 32<.d 
clause contaius. [Clarisncb, J. — Theie is no dou t tiiat, 
as a general pi inciple, when an enactment says yuu shall 
Doi do a thing, and also thai you niiy du it under ceitain 
circumstdncfcb, iheptoof of the exceptiiig circumsiauces is * 
upon the defendant ^ but where the Icgiblature m one breath 
savs you shall not do a thing except under special circum« 
staoceSy then you musL aver and prove the absence of those 
circu ustances]. The absence of a licence undei § 26 is 
neither an **eXemption> proviso^ nor condition" as cuntem* 
plated by Ordmance 5 of 1881, bub of the essence of the 
offc^nce, Ihe fiist case of late years on the point is P. 0\ 
Kandy 15,13a (i), where Phbau, C. J , says, "This ab" 
sente of a licence is a necessary ingredient in the statement 
of the rule, and is not an exception from it. The prose- 
cation is constquently not relieved by the opt ration of clause 
65 from the obligation of proving it to some extent at any 
rate, notwithstanding that it is a negative." ir^o that this 
point 16 not affected by the Ordinance of i83i. In the 
next case, P, 0. Kalutara 61,644. (a), Cayley, C. J , draws 
the distinction between the offences created by §§ a6 and 
3a. The last case was decided in 1881, jusb before the 
passing of the Ordinance (3), and re-affirmed the same 

(1)36.0.0,165. I (2) a S. CO., 179. I (3) 4 S. 0. C, 155. 



1 



64 

priooiple. The simple question is> is the possession of a 
licence an ** exemption, proviso, or condition"? i submit 
it is not. On the merits^ the evidence is of the usual 
character 3 that of a person who himself incites to the 
commission of the offence* The power to imprison for 
this offence was only given by Ordinance No. 8 of i8^9» 
and the sentence imposed upon the defendant is excessive 
for the breach of a mere fiscal enact men't, 

Nell (acting D. Q A). for the Crown, on notice given by 
the Supreme Court—* Exceptions'* occur in } 32, and the 
proof of them is provided for by § 6 j. Ordinance No. 5 of 
jSSi was evidently intended to deal with the requirements * 
of such clauses as the 26th. [Clabbncb, J. — It is clear 
that the Ordinance meant to relieve the complainant of the 
burden of proving the negative* but it has used very funny 
language to express its intention.] The word ** condition" 
covers the case of a licence. [Clarbnc8» J, — It may be' 
the mere synonym of *' prpviso" or of *' exemption." In a 
hond it would mean the same as *< proviso.*'] Any other 
construction of the word ** coudition" would render the 
Ordinance absurd and unmeaning. [Clarence, J.— -Admits 
tedly there are already two unmeaning words in the section » 
viz. "exemption" and "proviso'']. On the merits^ the 
magistrate's decision has been arrived at with care and after 
visiting the spot, and is supported by the evidence. 

Cur, adv. vult- 

(5th September). Clarence, J. — Appellant appeals 
against a conviction on a charge laid under section 26 of 
Ordinance 10 of 1844.. • 

. This information is defective inasmuch as it does not 
aver the sale to have been a sale by retail. Selling arrack 
is no offence against this section, unless the sale was by 
retail, and the section defines sale by retail as sale of a 
quantity less then 35 gallons. Strange to say, the infer., 
mat ion as originally framed charged appellant with selling 
"^quantity of arrack less than 35 gallons,*' but the .words 
*' less than 35 gallons'* were afterwards struck out by an 
amendment initialled by the Police Magistrate. The evu 
dence for the prosecution, if true, proves that appellant sold 
a very 'small quantity, viz. a single glass. Complainant is an 
arrack renter's peon, and the evidence for the prosecution 
goes to show that an informer named Baba was seat ia with 



65 

8 cents to buy a drink of arrack, and was served with tb^ 
arrack by appellant* There was evidence for the defence, 
to the effect that appellant had only a small quantity of. 
arrack for his own use, and ihat the bottle seized was in« 
troduced by complainant's party. The Police Magistrate*, 
who visited defendant's premises, records that he saw no. 
reason to disbelieve the witnesses for the prosecution. The 
conviction cannot stand unless we amend the information. 
As the necessary averments respecting the amount of liquor 
seem to have been deliberately struck out of the informa* 
tioa by the prosecution, I am not disposed to restore them 
after verdict 3 and the less so inasmuch as there is no evi- 
dence of any sale to any person other than the professional 
informer Baba. I think, therefore, • that the conviction 
should be set aside, and the information and proceedings 
qaashed. 

But we ought not to leave the case without a decision 
upon the main point argued before us, viz-, the effect of the 
3rd section of Ordinance No. 5 of 188 1. There is no evi' 
dence negativing the possession by appellant of the Govern, 
meat Agent's licence ; and it has been repeatedly held by 
this Court, in accordance with the well-known general 
principle, that the Ordinance having created an offence 
described as the offence of selling the arrack without a 
licence, the piosscution, besides proving the sale, must | 
j^imdjacie indicate by evidence the absence of the licence i 
although it is otherwise where negative matter occurs, not \ 
in the direct description of an oft'ence, but in some exception 
or proviso.! The Police Magistrate considered that the 3rd 
section of ths Ordinance of 1881 had shifted the onus on 
to thr; defendant, there being no evidence for the defence to 
show that defendant bad the licence. It was argued in 
appeal that, whatever may have been the intention of the 
legislature in passing this enactment, it cannot be reason*- 
ably construed so as to have the effect thus assigned to it. 
The section runs thus :-r-[ as set out supra ]. 

It was not contended by the learned Deputy Queen's 
Advocate that either of the words "exemption** or .*' proviso" 
can have the desired effect of throwing on a defendant 
charged under section 26 of Ordinance 10 of 1844 the 
burden of showing that he had the Government Agent's 
licence. And' indeed it seems plain that those words effect 
no alteratioQ of the existing law. For it is well established, 



^6 

ds wcr hav« repeatedly had occasion to point out, that a 
defendant who seeks the benefit of an exception or proviso 
must pro^e the matter which would bring him thereunder. 
We have, then, remaining an enactment in these words :— 
*^ If the information shall negative any condition in the 
said Ordinance, it shall not be necessary for the prosecution 
or complainant in that behalf to give any evidence of such 
negative." Is the possession of the licence a ** condition 
in the Ordinance of 1844"^ The Ordinance says that it 
shall not be lawful to sell the arrack without having first 
obtained the licence. I confess that the phrase " condition 
in the Ordinance" is one which I find it difficult to inter, 
pret. The word ** condition" seems to me to savour if 
anything rather of a proviso than of a mere description of a 
negative ingredient. It was argued— if " condition** be 
taken to mean ^'proviso,*' the section effects nothing; to 
which was made the reply, that as two out of the three 
words employed by the legislature obviously effect no altera 
ation in the law, it need be no great matter of surprise i£ 
the third were found to have no greater effect. The word 
used is, to my mind, an ambiguous one : the section was, 
of course, intended to e£Eect some alteration in the law. 
We may take the history of the matter into consideration. 
The enactment followed directly on the definitive decision 
of this Court, deciding that in an information under section 
26 of the principal Ordinance the prosecution must adduce 
some evidence to negative the defendant's possession of the 
licence. Previous decisions of single Judges on the same 
point had been challenged by those who represented the 
Crown, and ths point was again argued before Chief J ustice 
Sir E. Cayley and myself* We were then pressed as before 
on the part of the Crown wich the argument ab inconvenienti, 
the facility with which the accused person might prpduce 
bis liceuce, and the alleged inconvenience of producing 
evidence from the office of the Government Agent to prove 
the negative. We felt bound, however, to adhere 10 our 
former decisions, which proceeded upon a well established 
principle. I think there can be no question but that the 
object of the enactment now in question was to alter the 
law as so laid down, and unless the language employed is 
language which cannot reasonably effect this purpose, I 
think we should construe it accordingly, I think it may 
be so construed. The principal enactment says it shall not 
be lawful to sell without the licence, I think we may YicTf 



f 



67 

this as imposing the '' condition*' of possessing the licence 
on the sellers > and by that process may constrae the new 
enactment as casting on the seller the onus of proving his 
licence. 

For the reason already assigned » however^ I think that 
this conviction must be set asidcy and the information and 
proceedings quashed. 



DiAS> J.^ concurred. 



Set aside. Information and 
proceedings quashed* 



6th and 14th Septemher, 1882. 

Present — Dias,. J. 

D. C. Cr. \ 

Negombo, > The Quebn 

537. J, Sc <r^€C/y7^ 

v; ^ 

D. C. Cr. ^ 
Colombo, > £kanayekege Hbbat Sinko. 

Transfer of Prosecution hy Supreme Court-^Ord, No. 11 
•f 1868, sects. 22 and 119— Ord. No. 7 of 1874, sect^ i— 
" Try.'' 

Upon a transfer of a prosecution by the Supreme Court from the 
District Court of Negorabo to that of Colombo after information filed 
in the former court by its Secretary, the District Judge of Colombo 
quashed another indictment for the same offence tendered by the Deputy 
Queen's Advocate, holding that the accused should be tried, if at all, on 
the information originally filed in the Negombo Court, and holding 
also that under sect, i of Ord. No. 7 of 1874 he had power only to try^ 
a^d not to hear and determine, any prosecution before him by virtue of 
that section^ 

Heldt that the order quashing the indictment was wrong; and that 
the Queen^s Advocate could prosecute either on the original information 
or on any other he chose to tender. 

Held also, that the word « try" in sect, i of the Ord. of 1874 must be 
construed as giving the District Court p©wer also to hear and determine 
the matter of any prosedution before it by the Queen's Advocate. 

This was a prosecution for a bVeach of sect. 11 of the 
Malicious Injuries Ordinance, 1846, and it was transferred 
bj the Supreme Court from the Di:^trict Court of Negpmbo 



08 

to that of Colombo, on the ground that the committini^ 
Justice was also the District Judge* of Negombo. The 
following are the material parts of the order of traasfer : 

The Queen, on the complaint of H. 

W. Green, ... ... ... Complainant. 

vs. 
Ekanayekege Herat Sinno Accused. 

1 P N** b Charge^ Malicious Injury to a Bridge. 

Upon the motion of Mr. Ondaatjie, Deputy Queen's 
Advocate, submitted in Court this day, (due notice 
whereof having been given to the accused) and upon 
reading the record of the said Justice of the Peaiiee 
Case, It is ordered that the above case be and the 
same is hereby transferred from the District Court of 
Negombo to the District Court of Colombo, for trial. 

When the case came on for trial in the District Court of 
Colombo, Layardy for the accused, took the objection that 
that Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the charge. It 
had no jurisdiction of its own, inasmuch as the act com« 
plained of was committed outside its territorial limits ; and 
it had no delegated jurisdiction by virtue of the Order of the 
Supreme Court, inasmuch as that order did not profess to 
transfer for trial before the District Court of Colombo any 
matter then pending before the District Court of Negombo, 
but a certaia ** Justice of the Peace Case No. 13385." It 
was further objected that, if the Colombo Court could try 
the matter at all, it should be upon the information filed in 
the District Court of Negombo, and not upon the fresh in^ 
dictment tendered by the Deputy Queen^s Advocate in the 
Colombo Court. The District Judge of Colombo (7*. 
Berwick) quashed the' information presented in Colombo, 
upholding the objection to the territorial jurisdiction, ancl 
being of opinion that the accused should be tried in Colombo 
(if triable at all) upon the information filed in the District 
Court of Negombo, just as, in a civil suit so transferred, the 
trial would proceed upon the pleadings filed in the original 
Court. Against this order the Queen's Advocate appealed. 

The remaining facts of the case appear in the judgments 
of the Appellate Court. 

[ Note, hy order of the District Judge of Colombo, 
the proceedings taken in his Court upon the record trans- 
ferred from the District Court of Negombo were kept 
separate (under No. 537) from the proceedings consequent 
upon the informatioQ filed io the Colombo Court by the 



69 

Deputy Queen's Advocate, the record of which latter pro- 
ceedings was numbered ^^6. The Appellate Court has 
accordingly treated these two records as two distinct eases, 
and has given judgment in each separately.] 

lerdinandst Acting Q. ^4,, for the appellant— . 

The Court below has held that a District Court has power 
to try this case only by virtue of the Ordinance No. 7 of 
1874, sect. If malicious injury to a bridge not being a charge 
otherwise cognizable by the District Court. It was held 
that that Ordinance only empowered the Court to " tt-y," 
and not to " hear and determine" such matter. The word 
•• tiy" must be taken to confer the power also of hearing, 
arriving at a conclusion, and punishing — See Bacon's Abr.^ 
Tol. 6, p ^6^^ ^'Statute' ; Dwarris on Statutes, p 703. Fur-. 
ther, this having been a prosecution transferred under sect. 

22 of the Administration of Justice Ordinance, 1868, the 
Court to whjch it had been transferred had the power of 
hearings trying and deciding the same as fully and effectually 
to all intents and purposes as if such Court had originally 
power and jurisdiction. The judge was therefore clearly 
bound to try and dispose of the matter. Again, as con^ 
tended in the Court belgW by the Deputy Queen's Advocate 
(^Ondaatje), the Queen's Advocate has t^he power to prose- 
cute before any court of criminal jurisdiction any offence 
for which any punishment is prescribed by Ordinance, even 
though such punishment be beyond the power of such Court 
to award, (Ord. ii of 1868, sect. rip). In reply it has 
been asked, Could ihe Police Court try a charge of murder, 
if the Queen's Advocate chose to prosecute it tlTere ? The 
answer to this objection is, that for murder no punishment 
has been prescribed by Ordinance. The present charge is 
not one of those scheduled in the Ordinance of 1874 as not 
triable by District Courts. The appearance of the Queen's 
Advocate or his Deputy to pros-cu'e in his official capacity, 
15, under section 3, sufficient proof of the case having been 
brought before it by the Queen's Advocate or his Deputy. 
But in the present instance there was also an indictment 
tendered, signed by the Deputy Queen's Advocate. The 
District Court was therefore bound to try and decide the 
matter, under sect, i of the Ordinance of 1874.. 

[ He then proceeded to comment on the unjustifiable 
language of the District Judge of Colombo in speaking of 



70 

the legislation of the epoch during which the Admini&trft^ 
tipn of Justice Ordinance had been passed*] 
No Counsel appeared for the respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

( 1 4.bh September). No. 537. Dias.J. — The accused in 
this case, Ekanayekege Herat Sinho* was committed by the 
Justice of the Peace for the District' of Negombo on the 
19th August 1 88 1, to be tried before the District Court of 
Ne^ombo on a charge under the Ordinance No. 6 of 1845. 
On the 5th of October 1881* the Secretary of the District 
Court of Negombo presented an information against the 
accused, and the case came on before the District Judge on 
the 1 7th. On that day, the learned jadge expressed his 
unwillingness to try the case, as he was the Justice of the 
Peace who committed the accused. Accordingly Mr« 
Ondaatje, Deputy Queen's Advocate, moved the Supreme 
Court to transfer the case from the District Court of Ne« 
gnmbo to the District Court of Colombo. The motion was 
allowed, and, on the 26th of October 188 1, the Supreme 
Court made an order accordingly. On the ist of November 
notice was issued to the parties, and on the 12th the learned 
District Judge of Negombo informed the accused that the 
case would be heard in the District Court of Colombo on- 
the 8th of December following. What took place in the 
District Courts of Negombo and Colombo, after the last ' 
order of the District Judge of Negombo, does not appear 
_ on record* But on the 22nd of June 1882 the following 
entry is recorded: — "Mr. D. Q. A. Ondaatje for the 
Crown ; Mr. Advocate Layard for the accused. The order 
of the ^^'upreme Court dated 26th October 1881 is produced 
and read. The information filed in the Negombo Court is- 
read to the accused." 

Before the accused was called upon to plead, Mr. Layard^ 
objected to the jurisdiction of the Court. He urged, first* 
that the Colombo Court had no territorial jurisdiction, and» 
secondly, that it had no delegated territorial jurisdiction by- 
virtue of the order of the Supreme Court, inasmuch as the 
Supreme^ Court order purported to transfer for trial a cer- 
tain Justice of the Peace case. No. 23,385, J. P. Negombo* 
and entitled *' The Queen, on the complaint of H. W, 
Green, vs- Ekanayekege Herat Sinho," and did not purport 
to transfer to the District Court of Colombo any cause* sui^ 



71 

or action the<n pending in the District Court of Negombo. 

. This last contention is founded upon an entire misappre* 

faension of the effect of the Supreme Oourt order of the 26th 

October i88i, which is as follows : — Victoria by the Grace 

of God, &c. The Queen, on the complaint of H. W. Green, 

complainant, vs, Ekanajekege Herat Sinho, accused. 

Charge^ malicious injury to a bridge... It is ordered that the 

^bove case be and the same is hereby transferred from the 

District Court of Negombo to the District Court of Colombo^ 

for trial." In the margin of the order is the following 

entry : — ** Case No. 13,381; J. P, Negombo.*' 

This marginal entry is do part of the order, and the case 
that was transferred was the case of The Queen vs. Ekana* 
yekege Herat Sinho, then pending before the District Court 
of Negombo under No. 537. In that case an information 
had already been presented in the District Court of Ne- 
gombo by the Secretary of that Court uader No. 537, D. 
C. Negombo^ and that case came on before the District 
Jndge of Negombo more than once, and it appears to me 
ast/)nishiDg how> in the face of all thif, it can be seriously 
contended that this was not a prosecution pending before 
the District Oourt of Negombo, when it was transferred by 
the Supreme Court ^ but remarkably enough this objection 
was upheld by the learned Judge and the information was 
quashed. The learned Judge remarks that the order of the 
Supreme Court was wrongly framed by the Registrar of the 
(Supreme Court, as be thinks, by mistake; and I further 
think that the remarks of the learned Judge on the Supreme 
Court order are owing to an entire misapprehepsion of the 
effect of that order. The order appealed from must there- 
fore be set aside, and the case sent back for trial i.n due 
course on the information already filed or any other infor** 
mation which the Queen's Advocate may substitute for ir. 
I may remark that it is much to be regretted that this case» 
'which was transferred to the District Court of Colombo so 
far back as October i88r, nearly ten months ago, should 
tioi have been di^posed of yet. Of all cases, criminal cases 
are those which should be promptly decided, but in this 
<:ase a criminal change has been allowed to be pending 
against the accused for nearly ten months, and is not yet 
disposed of. The order appealed from is set aside, and the 
case remitted to the District Court for trial as aboY.e 
-directed. 



72 

No, 3 5^- DiAS, J. — In this case, the accused, Ekana- 
yekege Herat Sinho* was committed by the Justice of the 
Peace for the district of Negombo on the 19th of August 
1881 'to be tried before the District Court of Negombo, on a 
charge uuder the Ordinance No. 6 of 184.6. On the 26th 
of October 1&8 , the Supreme Court made an order trans» 
f erring the case from the District Court of Negombo to the 
District Court of Colombo. On the 15th of December 
1 88 1, an information was presented by the Queen's Advocate, 
signed by his' Deputy, Mr. Morgan ; but before the infor« 
mation was presented, namely on the Sth day of December, 
the case was called and postponed till the 16th January 
1S82. On that day it was 'again postponed till the 9th 
February. Thefe were several further postponements after 
that till the 22nd June, when the learned Judge, after hear, 
ing counsel on both sides, quashed the information present* 
ed by the Deputy Queen's Advocate. Against this order 
the Queen's Advocate appeals. , 

On the 15th of December 1881, when the information 
by the Deputy Queen's Advocate was first presented, certain 
proceedings seem to have taken place, on certain objections 
to the jurisdiction of the Court taken by the learned. counsel 
for the accused, and one of those objections was that the 
Ordinance No. 7 of 1874 only authorized the District Court 
to try the offence, but did .not authorize it to determine it. 
The Ordinance did not enact any such absurdity, and, in 
construing an Ordinance, Courts are bound by the rules of 
construction which are recognized by law. A power to try 
a case necessarily involves a power to determine it, else the 
trial would be an unprofitable waste of time. The juris^ 
diction ol the District Court to try this case was not any 
jurisdiction conferred by the Ordinance of 1874, but it was 
a jurisdiction conferred by the order of the Supreme Court, 
which' was an order made under the 22nd clause of the 
Ordinance No. 11 of iB66 j and by that clause the court to 
which a cause is transferred, the District Court of Colombo 
in this case, is empowered to hear, try and decide the cause 
so transferred. The objection under the Ordinance of 1874. 
is therefore quite irrelevant and inapplicable. This objec* 
tion was favourably received by the learned Judge, who, 
however, took time for further consideration. The Deputy 
Queen's Advocate, Mr. Ondaatje, then urged that, under the 
ii9ih section of the Ordinance No. 11 of 186 3, the prose- 
cution would lie. On this point the learned Judge has 



73 

written a long judgment, in which he makes some remarks 
oD the Ordinance No. ii of i86S and the legislation of that 
period. On thnf part of the judgment, the learned Queen's 
Advocate* who appeared in support of this appeal, animad- 
verted in strong terms on the language used by the learned 
Judge, as reflecting on the memory of two emioent men 
who at one time occupied the chief seat on this bench. The 
learned District Judge did not in terras refer to any persons, 
bat criticized the legislation of i868- ifi however, his 
remarks were meant to apply to the two eminent persons* 
referred toby the learned Queen's Advocate, all that I can 
say is that the remarks are as undeserved as they are un- 
called for. With regard to Mr. Ondaatje*s argument, 
founded on the ii gth section of the Ordinance No. ii of 
i868f I cannot agree with him. The clause applica.4 
ble to the case is the 22nd clause of the OrdinaDce 
of 1S6S, which empowers the Supreme Court to transfer 
any cause, &c., pending in any original court. When a 
cause is so transferred, the court to which it is ^transferred 
has power and jurisdiction to hear and decide the same as 
fully and effectually to all intents and purposes as if sucU 
court (that is, the court to which the cause is transferred) 
had originally power and jurisdiction. The Supreme Court 
by its order of the 26th of October transferred the cause to 
the District Court of Colombo under the 22nd clause, and 
the objection to the jurisdiction is one in defiance of that 
order, and should not have been listened to by the District 
Judge 3 but on this very poor objection the learned District 
Judge proceeded to quash the information, thereby ignoring 
the order of the Supreme Court, which gave the District 
Court jurisdiction. The learned counsel for the accused 
seems to have urged a further Objection, and that is an 
objection to the information itself as presented by the' 
Queen's Advocate, apparently on the ground that, if the 
accused is to be tried at all, he should be tried on the infor* 
mation already presented to the District Court of Negombo. 
The learned Judge seems to have upheld this objection, 
though he has not very clearly stated so in his judgment. 
With respect to this objection, I may remark that, under 
the large powers conferred on the Queen's Advocate by the 
Ordinances No. 11 of 1868 and No. 7 of 1874, the District 
Court is bound to try all criminal charges which it has 

^ - . , , , ■ I „ I - 1 1 n 

'^ Sii Richard Morgan and Sir Kiwsitd Cxeasy* 



74 

jurisdiction to try, and which the Qaeen's Advocate shall 
bring or prosecute before such court. la this case the 
Supreme Court's order gave the District Court of Colombo 
jurisdiction to hear, try and decide this case, aod the District 
Judge was bound to do so on the information presented by 
the Queen's Advocate. The remarks in the case No. 537 
on the delay which has taken place in the trial of that case 
are equally applicable to this case. The order appealed 
from is set aside* and the case remitted to the District 
Court to be proceeded with in due course. 

Order quashing indictment 
set aside. 

[The case coming on for trial on the 12th October 1882, 
before Libschino, ActiagDistrict Judge, Ondaatje, D.Q. Ao 
for the prosecution, Layard for the accused, the defendant 
was acquitted on the ground that the injury proved — taking 
some bricks oat of the side wall of a bridge — had not beea 
shown to have rendered the bridge dangerous or impassa^ 
ble» as required by sect. 11, Ord. No. 6 of 1846. ] 



^thand%%nd September ^ 1882. 
Present— -Clarbmcb and Diasi J J. 
D. C. % S. L. AsBRAPFA /<* t^ S-^o, (VO 



Colombo, > 
87,285, J H. J. 



V. 
OB ZOTSA. 



A dmissioH'^Mortgage ^Interim judgment for amount ad* 
mitted'^Sale qf mortgaged property to satisfy part of mort'- 
gage debt* 

Plaintiff sued to recover Rs. 1181*25 as principal and interest due 
upon a mortgage boad. Defendant admitting the bond impugned it as 
invalid for stipulating for usurious interest, and set out several different 
transactions, out of which in connection with the bond he admitted 
Rs. 283*53 to be due to the plaintiff- Plaintiff applied by Rule Nisi to 
have judgment entered up in bis favor for the sum admitted, which 
rule was discharged. 

Held, that the answer did not contain such an absolute admission of 
part of plaintifTs claim as entitled him to judgment therefor. 

Held also, that plaintiff could not have a mortgagee's decree declar- 
ing the mortgaged land specially executable, enforceable piecemeal ; 
but, if anything, only a judgment for a mere sum of money. 



75 

This was an action for the recovery of Rs. 675 as principal 
and Rs. 506*25 as interest 9t the rate of thirty per cent, per 
annam due apon a mortgage bond. The libel contained a 
prayer that the property mortgaged might be declared 
specially bound and executable for the satisfaction of the 
debt. The defendant filed a *' dsmurrer and answer," in)« 
pogning (he bond as entirely invalid as stipulating for an 
usurious rate of interest ; admitting the execution of the 
bond and his indebtedness thereon in the sum of Rs* 283*52. 
The answer further set out that the bond, sued on was given 
in redemption of a promissory note for Rs. 580, upon which 
Ss» 58 had been paid» and which had been given by defen. 
dant to plaintiff when pressed for payment of a debt of 
Ss. 450, which sum of Rs.450 defendant averred was the 
only consideration received by him. Payments amounting 
to Rs. 320*55 in reduction of the amonnt due upon the 
mortgage were also alleged, and defendant pleaded that 12 
per cent, was a reasonable remuneration for plaintiff* Plain- 
tifE filed replication joining issue on the averments in the 
answer, and a joinder in demurrer on the legality of the 
bond. 

Plaintiff before replication filed obtained a Rule Niti 
against the defendant, calling upon him to show cause why 
** judgment should not be entered against him for the amount 
admitted in his answer, pending decision on the balance of 
plaintiff's claim.*' The District Judge {Berwick) having 
discharged the rule on the ground that it was wrongly 
framed, with Jibeviy to plaintiff to apply for a fresh rule» 
plaintiff appealed. 

Grenier, for the appellant— The case clearly falls under 
the 4th Rule of Section i of the R. k O. of ist October 
1833. "^^o Supreme Court has held in a similar case, that 
judgment may be entered for any admitted portion of the 
claim, and the disputed portion reserved for trial. Esdaile 
▼. Albrecht (i). That was an action against a Oom mission 
Agent to recover the value of produce sold by him for 
plaintiff, and defendant having admitted part of the claim> 
judgment was entered for the part admitted and the case set 
down for trial as to the balance. 

Layard, for the defendant, respondent — Plaintiff cannot 

seek to have judgment entered up for the admitted amount, 

<■ I ■ . ■ » ■ I 11 1 1 III I . 

(i) D. C. Colombo 68,218. Civil Minutes of S. C, i7tb December 
1875. Fer Stkwart, A. C. J., Cayliy aad Dias, JJ. 



76 

without admitting the truth of the transactions out of which 
defendant says the debt admitted arises. These transactions 
are widely different from those alieg^ed in the libel. In 
Esdaile v* Alhrecht (i) there was no dispute as to the trans^ 
actions between the parties* the only question being with 
respect to the sum due thereon. There is therefore .here 
no admission on which judgment can be signed. 

Further, the present debt is secured by a mortgage, and 
the libel prays for a decree declaring the property mortgaged 
specially bound and executable to satisfy the judgment. 
Such property cannot be put up for sale to satisfy fractions 
of the debt> but can only be sold once for all. Palmer v. 
Carlisle (2). In Esdaile v. Alhrecht there was no question 
of mortgage. 

Cur, adv, vult. 

(32nd September). ClabencB) J*— Plaintiff sues on a 
mortgage, purporting to secure a principal sum of Rs. 675, 
with interest at 30 per cent, per annum. Defendant filed 
an answer, which he styled an '* answer and demurrer," ia 
which he admitted the mortgage to be his deed, and charged 
that the bond was void ab initio ** by reason of its stipu- 
lating for usurious interest." The answer further went on 
to aver certain payments, and concluded by admitting that 
if interest were reckoned at 12 per cent, defendant would, 
on the footing of the bond* be indebted to plaintiff for 
principal and interest in the sum of Rs. 283*52. Plaintiff 
thereupon applied by Rule to have judgment entered up in 
his favor for the Rs. 283*^2, " pending decision on the 
balance of plaintiff's claim," and now appeals against a 
refusal of the learned District Judge to make that rule 
absolute. 

The meaning of plaintiff's application is sufficiently ob*- 
vious. Plaintiff asks for a judgment for the Rs. 283*5231 
. once, leaving the plaintiff's claim to the balance still open, 
and leaving it open to the respective parties to take such 
steps as they may respectively be advised for the prosecut* 
ing or the repelling of the claim to the balance. The learn« 
ed District Judge without assigning any reason refused to 
make plaintiff's rule absolute and discharged it without 
costs, but with liberty to plaintiff to apply for a fresh rule. 

(i) D. 0. Colombo 68,2t8. Civil Minutes of S. C, 1 ytti December 
1875. Per Stbwart, A. C. J., Caylby and Dias, JJ. 
(2) I Sim. & St., 433. 



77 

Upon the argument of this appeal I entertained doubt 
whether a District Coart is at liberty to enter up judgment 
piecemeal in the way thus asked. A decision, however, of 
this court was cited by Mr. Grenier, which certainly declared 
that the District Court had power to make such an order ; 
butit seems to me unnecessary to enter at all upon that 
general question, because, assuming for the purposes of 
argument that the Court had power to enter up such par- 
tial judgment, the circumstances are plainly such as would 
Dot warrant any such judgment. 

The judgment is asked for as on the footing of an ad^ 
mission that Rs. 28) -5 2 is due. There is no such admission, 
for defendant has demurred. The demurrer may contain 
no element whatever of possible success. We have nothing 
whatever now to do with that question ; but there being 
this demurrer there is no admission for the purpose of plain- 
tiff's application. 

Further than this* the action is an action on a mortgage, 
and plaintiff asks for the usual mortgagee's decree. He 
plainly cannot have a mortgagee's decree declaring the 
mortgagee) land specially executable, enforceable piecemeal. 
If he is to have anything now it must be a mere judgment 
for a sum of money. I understood from Appellant's 
Counsel that plaintiff would be conteoH on his present appli- 
cation with a judgment for Rs- 283-52, for which the land 
would not be specially executable, and that plaintiff would 
propose to enforce such judgment by levying on the land 
subject to the mortgage* In my opinion inconvenience and 
confusion would probably ensue if any such course were 
taken. 

I think that the plaintiff's appeal fails and should be dis.> 
missed with costs. Plaintiff would have been better advised 
to press on his suit to a hearing instead of presenting this 
interlocutory appeal. 

Df AS, J. — I agree with my brother Clarence that the 
plaintiff's appeal should be dismissed on the ground that 
the answer does not contain an admission such as would 
entitle the plaintiff to have a judgment entered up in his 
favour for the amount admitted. I also think that, this 
being a claim founded on a mortgage bond, a partial judg^ 



78 

ment such as the plaintiff claims \» calculated to lead to* 
much confusion and inconvenience. 

Appeal dismmed. 

Proctor for plaintiff, P, Coomara Swamy* 
Proctor for defendant} /). A, Dissanayeka, 



nth August and ^rd Octoler, 1882. 
Present — Clabsncb and DiAS, JJ. 



Pbreba 

V. 



DC. 

Colombo, y Tfc *' J ..L 

, * V DiAS and others. 

' 7»9o • J £^ parte J. and C. Jatbsekbbb. 

Purchase in execution of land subject to mortgage ^Suh* 
sequent purchase under the mortgagee's writ^'Right of first 
purchaser to refund of purchase money ^ 

plaintiff on money judgment obtained issued writ and caused the Fiscal 
to sell (subject to a mortgage in favor of C.) an undividetl inteiest in land 
belonging to the defendants, which was purchased by the respondents. 
This sale was never confirmed by the Court. Subsequently C, having 
obtained a mere money judgment on his mortgage bond, caused ttie 
same property to be sold in execution and purchased it himself. 

Held, that under the 53rd clause of the Fisials Ordinance, 1867, con- 
firmation by the Court w^s necessary only for those sales which had* 
been impeached, and that if no objection to the sale were lodged within 
30 days it was confirmed ipsafacio. 

Held accordingly, that respondents were not under section 55 entitled 
to a refund of their purchase money. 

On the 24th June 1879 the plaintiff obtained jndgmeat 
in this case by defauU, against the first two defendants per^ 
Bonally, and against the other three defendants as represents 
ing the estate of a third obligor deceased, for the sum of 
Ks. 180 and further interest, due on a debt bond dated 14th 
October 1873. Upon writ of execution issued by plaintiff 
the Fiscal sold on 26th January 1880. an undivided share 
of land belonging to the defendants, subject to a mortgage 
in fa?or of Andris Coorey by bond dated 30th Marcn 1878. 
The purchasers were Julius and Charles Jayesekere, for the 
sum of Ks. 2 42> which was deposited in Court on 5th< 
February 1880. Andris Coorey brought suit No. 8i,o3i 
on 17th March 1880, and obtained a simple money judg« 
ment for Rs. 21^^60 on his mortgage band by default) oa 



79 

ist Jane 1880. On bis writ the land was ' rr-sold and 
purchased by the mortgagee plaintiff. The purchasers, on 
3rd August 188 r, obtained a Rule on the Fiscal to shew 
cause why the purchase money should not be refunded to 
•thein. On 17th August they obtained a similar Rule on 
the defendants. On October nth the purch.asers, having 
given the Fiscal notice» moved that, the sale to them not 
iiaving been confirmed, they should be allowed an order of 
payment for the Bs. 24a. This motion was allovwed ; bub 
on the plainti£E's appeal it was set aside and the motion was 
•ordered to be discussed in the presence of all parties in. 
terested. Ihe District Judge (0. ff". C* Morgan) then 
made the following order, alter discussion :— 

'* The Fiscal and defendants do not oppose this motion* 
The first sale, when the claimants became the purchasers* 
has not been confirmed* I do not see how the plaintiff 
•Can in any way be prejudiced. He has still the property 
specially mortgaged to him, against which he can proceed. 
I do not think the plainiifi' had a right to proceed against 
property not specially mortgaged to him, before first dig* 
cussing the special mortgage. The claimants have a right 
to a retund under the 53ih clause ot the Fiscals Ordinance. 
Motion allowed with cu&ts.*' 

The plaintiff appealed, contending (i) that, the first sale 
liaving been made subjc^ct to Coorey's mortgage, the pur* 
chasers, having had notice, should have protec ed their own 
interests ; (2) that, ao objection having been taken to the 
sale within 30 days, the sale was confirmed by operation of 
law ; (3) that, reading § 55 of the Fiscals Ordinance with 
4§ 54 3Q^ ^^> ^^^ claimants were not entitled to a refund ; 
(4) that, if a refund was due under those clauses, it should 
have been claimed by separate action. 

Grenier, for the plaintiff— The practice of the District Court 
of Ci lombo, since the passing of the Fiscals Ordinance, 
has been that, if no objection be taken within 30 days, the 
sale is confirmed ipsojaclo* The Ordinance says that all 
sales shall be reported to the Court, but does not require the 
•confirmation of every sale, fiat there is a decision tbe other 
way by Stewart, J., i). C. Colombo 51,457, (i)» ^' ^. 
Colombo 80,714 (2) was a case which. I argued myself 

(i) civil Minutes of S. C, 1 ith Dec. 1874. 

(3) X^ivil Minutes of S. C.j Inter Loc,, 19th Nov. 18S0. 



80 

before Caylby, C. J., and Olarbncb J. The District 
Judge had held that a writ-holder could not draw the one^. 
fourth purchase.rooney paid by a purchaser under the wrir, 
inasmuch as that deposit did not form part of the eventual 
purchase-money The Supreme Court held that the one- 
fourth deposited was part of the purchase money and could 
be drawn after notice to the purchaser, before the comple* 
tion of the sale ; and also that a Fiscal's sale was ipso facto 
confirmed by no objection being taken within 30 days. 

Ondaatje, for the purchasers, contra — We admit we bought 
SBbject to Coorey'8 mortgage, . and that the mortgagee had a 
right to resell the land 5 but I submit that the Fiscal should 
have called upon the original purchasers (who were in 
possession) to pay the amount of the mortgage debt, and 
should only have re sold in case of noDupaymenU [ O1A.S, J. 
— *The party before us is not the Fiscal but the morigagee- 
purchaser. ] If we have to pay« we lose both the land and 
our money. [Clarencb, J. — There is some hardship upon 
you. You could not have been turned out of the land (if 
you had been in possession under conveyance of the Fiscal) 
without a separate suit against you, as we have so often 
held. ] 

Cur, adv' vutt> 

(3rd October). Dias, J — [ Aftei setting out the facts]. 
The order of the learned Judge is based on the 55th clause 
of the Fiscal s Ordinance (f 1867. He thought that, the 
sale at which the respondents purchased not having been 
cou firmed, the respondents were entitled to a return of the 
purchase money. la the events which have happened, the 
construction placed upon the 55th clause by the learned 
Judge is erroneous. The 55tb cU use must be read with 
the 53rd clause. Under the 53rd clause the Fiscal is bound 
to report to the Court every sale of immoveable property, 
and if the sale is impeached by any party interested, the 
Court shall make a summary inquiry and confirm or disallow 
the sale. It is plain that if the sale is not impeached it does 
not require either confirmation or disallowancv.% and under 
the 56ch clausci when the full amount of the purchase 
money is paid, the Fiscal is bound to execu'e a conveyance- 
in favor ot the purchaser. In this case the sale has not 
been impeached by any party, and the 55th clause of the 
Ordinance is therefore inapplicable. A purchaser in execu^ 
tion knows, or ought to kaowi that the Fi:fcal only sells 



81 

the interest of the execution debtor, and the purchaser takes 
the property at his own risk. In this case, however, the 
respondents' purchase was expressly made subject to the 
mortgage in iavor of Andris Goorey* The respondents 
bought with notice of this mortgage, and . they cannot com« 
plain of the subsequent sale under Andris Coorey's 
mortgage. 

For the above reasons the order appealed from must be 
set aside' 

CtARENCB, J. — 1 am of opinion that the respondents, 
the purchasers, have shown no ground for a refutid oi 
their purchase money. Whether or not the judgment, 
which the mortgagee is said to have obtained, is one which 
is binding against these respondents, I do not know. But 
the respondents, for aught that appears, purchased at their 
own risk the interest of the execution debtor as It stood at 
the sale, and there is no suggestion of irregularity in the 
sale. 

I agree that this order is wrong and must be set aside, 
with costs in both Courts as against the purchasers res^ 
pendents* 

Order set aside* 

Proctor for appellafnt, £. H. Prins, 
Proctor for respondents, 5^. R. y. Ondaaije. 



nth Mai/y 1 88:2. 

Present — Clarbnge» J. 

D. C \ Francis db Silva 
Kaudy, > v. 

£1,309. J D. M. Ran0aiit and 4 others* 

^oint and several liaMlity on judgment. 

Where a judgment decreed that plaintiff should recover a sum spec|. 
ficd from the defendants and out of the estate of an intestate person in 
their hands, 

Heldf that under this judgment the plaintiff might recover the whole 
amount from either defendant. 

This was an action on two bonds, and judgment was duly 
entered against defendants by default} without a declaration 



82 

that the property mortgage! was specially exectttable for the 
judgment. Orfe bond was granted by the fir^ and second 
defendants* and the other 6y the first defendant and 
the father of both defendants. The father had died 
intestate, and the j^UiotillP sued the defendants personally, 
and also as representatives of the deceated man's estate* 
By both bonds property was mortgaged. Writ issued for 
RS. 1, 109 and costs. The first defendant having paid his 
share (Rs. 646*50) moved the Court to have writ recalled, 
the sale of his share of the property seized stayed, and the 
judgment as against him declared satisfied. 

The District Judge {Lawrie) disallowed the motion in the! 
following terms :-^*' I understand from the first defendant 
that the property now under seizure and advertized for sale 
on the i4th is one of the lands mortgaged in the deed to 
plaintiff. The judgment in this case i$ one to enforce thai 
mortgage. It has not been fully satisfied. I think the 
land remains burdened, and a sale of it should not be 
^ayed until the full debt has been paid. I cannot stay this 
sale." 

The first defendant appealed against this order on the 
ground that, the judgment not being joint and several, it 
niust be considered that he had satisfied thii share of the 
judgment due by himt taid that bi3 interest in his father's 
estatei and the property mortgaged by him in the first 
bond, were not liable to be sold- 

Wendt for the appealing 'defendant. 

Clarbmcb, J— The appellant asks to have the sale stayed 
on the ground that he has already paid more than bis share 
of the judgment entered against him and the secood defen- 
dant. The judgment of the Court betow simjrly diecreed 
that plaintiff do recover from, the defendants and out of the 
estate of the intestate in their hands the sum specified. 
On that judgment, so long as it stands, plaintiff may re« 
cover the amount from either* 

Appeal dismissed* 

I'roctor for the pTsiiatiS; iSfirhes de Akds* 
Proctor for the first ddfettdadtr Edwm Seven* 



83 

26ih September and ip/A October, 1889. 
Present— ClarbKcs and Di4S» Si. 

B. C. \ Don BilBQa 8MiA#uwiBBA 
Ifatara, > F- 

52,371. J N. K. A. S. PI Si^vA- 

Administrationi necessity for ^Action hy surviving spouse 
to recover moveables hdonging to the community^^Minor childt 
rights of. 

In an action by a hvsband to recover oeilata moveabtei that Mon^d 
Id toe oommiiiiitjr between himsdf and bit itoooaped i^ifie, whioin^rp* 
|j«ity'tbe defendant detained, the defendant pleaded non lie/t^C and .that, 
the plaintif! oould not recover with«at obtaining^ adminstration to hi9 
wife's estate ; there being also issae of the marriage. 

Held^ reversing the deci-ion of the Gooft below, that p^laintiff cooM 
BBCovar-the bailf to wbieh4ie :was bimseU entitled, and ajboald ^all^we<i 
lime to obtain admlnistrauoja or to' have i)imse)f appoipted g^oardian 
td litem of hia minor child. 

This was an action to recoYer possession of certam 
moveable property which it was ftlkged the defendant qq« 
lawfully detained* and which the plaintiff prayed might be 
restored to him cm* broi:|ght ii^ ^qoiut tp be difily fdmip!is* 
tered and divided between hijpp^If apd his miam, .(bingbier 
who had succeeded to her deceased mother^s half of the 
common estate* The plaintiff Aierred in his Libel that the 
property in question had been removed to the house of the 
defendant (his Iatiier.4a4a,w) on the oco^ton of his (the 
plaintiff's) wife being taken there on aeconnt of her illness^ 
and that after chis wiife'>s deathr which tool: place shortly 
after, the defendant refused to ^ive up the property. 

The defendant answered pleading non detinet, s^nd raising 
the objection that the plaintiff could not maintain die suit 
without obtaining letters of admintstratipjQ to hia ^if^'s 
estate. The District Judge (Byrde) having upheld the ob« 
jection and entered up a judgment of nQtuauit, the plaintiff 
fippealed. 

Grmt^r for^ i^pell^at. 
Domhorst for the respondent* . 

Cur* advt vult* 

Cl4rbncb, J.^-Plaintiff'a wife died jn .th0 house of 
defendant, who is her father, PiaintiiS avers that w>lieii he 
brought hts wife there they brought with them a ^antfty of 
moveable property which be aver^ that deffiOdaQit 46b^i«& 



84 

Plaintiff .claims his own half and also the half which ha^l 
devolved on .the minor child of the marriage. He has not 
obtained letters of administration nor has he been appointed 
guardian ad litem of the minon The District Judge cortu 
sidered that he ought to have obtained administration to his 
wife's estate before he could recover her ^hare on the minor's 
account, and I am not prepared to interfere on that pointy 
but no administration is necessary to enable plaintiff to 
recover his own half. Plaintiff appeals against a nonsuit 
without coses. I think that plaintiff should be allowed to 
proceed with his claim as to his own half, and try the issue 
of fact disclosed by defendant's denial that the property was 
•brought, and that he should be allowed time to procure 
himself constituted the representative of his wife or guar« 
dian ad litem of the minor. I think the judgment appealed 
against should be set aside^ and the case sent back for 
further proceedings. Defendant to pay appeal costs. All 
other costs to be costs in the cause. 



DiAS, J., concurred. 

Proctor for the plaintiff, C H. B, Altend(yrJ, 
Proctor for the defendant, Jonathan Silva. 



Set aside* 



^td and igth October, iSSi* 
Present — CLARBNCB.aad Dias, JJ. 

jyn ^ C, E. GUZDAE & Co. 

mo , ^ jj^^ BamsH Ihdia Stkam Navioation Com* 

Consignees, liability qf^ far lanrfing charges ^^ Charges of 
the Wharf ^ ffarehouse Co.~^Ord. 10 of iSj 6, Schedule A 
— ** Consolidated landing and shipping charges.** 

Plaintiffs were the consignees of certain rice which defendants had 
undertaken to carry upon Bills of Lading which gave them the right 
to land the rice at consignees' risk, with a lien on the ?oods for charges, 
iaccordiifg to a scale visible at defendants' agents' office. Defendants 
employed W. to laad the goods, who detained 5 per cent of theoi till 
payment of landing and storage charges. Plaintiffs now claimed 
damages for this detention alleging a tender of a reasonable amsunt 
for Buoh charges, no scale of charges being visible at defendants' 



85 

tt^etits' office. The scale there visible was that contained in Schedule 
A to Otd. lo ol 1876, (bein^ the scale charged by W.) which prescribed 
a "consolidated landing end shipping charge** of 10 cents per bag of 
tice, with a ledoction of lO per cent, when the goods were taken from 
the Wharf by consignees and not stored. W. claimed 9 cents a bag for 
the goods in question, which had been removed from the Wharf. 

Held, that the charge of 9 cents per bag was for the processes neces" 
sary to be gone through in order to place the goods on the Wharf free 
to be removed by the owner, which processes must (in the absence of 
evidence to the contrary) be presumed to be covered by the expression 
"* landing charges" in the Bills of Lading. 

Held, therefore (there being no evidence that the amount tendeVed by 
plaintiffs was a reasonable oayment for such "landing") that the deten* 
tion by defendants* agent, W.. of part of the {^oods till paymhit of 9 
cents per bag on the whole consignment wai justified, and that plain* 
tifib' action failed. 

The libel of the plaintiffs aUeged that their agent at 
Gakatta about 4th October, 188 1, shipped (freight prepaid) 
on board the defendants^ steamship Socotra for Colombo 
4,711 bags of rice> to be delivered to plaintiffs. That there 
was a further shipment, about the 8th October, i8St, by 
the same agent Festonjie £ciu1jie Gu^dar, of 679 ba^^s of 
rice on board the defendants* steamship Bhundara upon the 
same terms and conditions. That there was a further simi- 
lar shipment of 1,018 bags of rice on board the defendants' 
steamship Ellora on the 8th October, 188 r, which also the 
defendants undertook to carry and deliver to the plaintiffs 
at Colombo. That the steamships duly arrived at Colombo, 
and nothing excepted in the Bills of Lading happened, to 
prevent the delivery of the said con^^ignments to the plains 
tiffs ; but the defendants only delivered 4. 1 9 ^ bags opt of 
the first consignment, 659 out of the 2nd, and 760 put of 
the 3rd. The plaintiffs claimed Rs. 5,ooo as damages for 
the short delivery. 

The answer, admitting ereat part of the libel, denied that 
hone of the exceptions contained in the Bills of Lading had 
t>ccnrred $ that plaintiffs had fulfilled all conditions to en« 
title them to full delivery j that the short delivered rice was 
wholly lost to plaintiffs; and that plaintiffs had sustained 
any damage. The defendants relied on the fact that the 
Bills of Lading contained, among the usual conditions, one 
to the following effect : 

** The Company to have the option oj delivering these Goods 
into receiving ship or landing them at Consignees* risk and 
expense, as per scale of charges to be seen at the Agents* 
Offices, the Company having a lien on all, or any part of the 



96 

GoodSi r gainst expemes incurred on the m/wle shipmefU.,».^,„ 
Jj stored in receiving ship, godown, or upon any wharf, all 
risks qfjire, dacoiiyt vermin, or otherwise, shall be with the. 
merchant ; ani the usual charge shall he paid before delivefy 
of the Goods*** 

The defendants alleged that they had landed the riee on 
arrival into the boats of the Wharf and Warehouse Co., as 
they thus had a right to do ; the said company having autho** 
rity under Ordinance No. lo of iS/6 to act as carriers^ 
wharfingers and warehousemen^ and to charge such reasona- 
ble rates for their services— *not exceeding the niaximum 
given in the said ordinance— as the directors tnight appoint* 
1 hat the said W. and W. Company landed and warehoused 
the ric% which was ready for delivery to the plaintiffs upon 
their paying the Warehouse Company the said reasonable 
charges due under §§ 8 and i j of the said Ordinance for 
such landiug and storing)— the plaintiffs having under the 
Bills of Lading undertaken to pay the said charges. That 
the Warehouse Company, exercising their lien for charges 
given by § i j, delivered to plaintifiFs the proportion specified 
in the libel of each consignoient, and offered to make up 
the deliveries to 95 per cent, only detaining 5 per cent till- 
payment of charges, which however plaintiffs did not pay«^ 
7 he answer concluded by denying liability to pay any 
damages and praying for a dismissal of the plaintiffs* action^ 

The plaintiffs in reply admitted the defendants* option 
as to landing, but denied that it extended to the storing o[ 
ihe rice, and that plaintiffs had agreed to pay any charges 
for landing and storing, before demanding delivery; They 
alleged further that they had agreed to pay only reasonable 
landing charges, according to a scale in the defendants' 
J^gents' office, but the Agents had no such scale; and the 
plaintiffs tendered the u&ual rates and demanded delivery 
immediately on landing. The replication demurred to the 
plea of justification in the answer, inasmuch as the ground 
relied upon was an underpayment, not to defendant, but 
to a third party, who was no parity to the contract on thp 
Bills of Lading. 

The rejoinder put in issue the existence or not of ihe 
scale of charfifes in the ofiicet and the tender by pla^^tiffa of 
the reasonable landing .charges j and there was a joinder i|k 
demurrer,. 



87 

"fhe case catne to trial before Mr. Berwick, District 
f odge» oD 37ch M»rch 18J2, when I^iihers, iostruc'ed by 
Mr, A, Aivis, appeared for the plain* ifls. and Browne, in^ 
structed by Mr. F, J. de Saram, for the defendant. 

Goansel agreed that the goods short delivered, to the 
extent of 5 per cent of the consignments, were detained by 
the persons employed by defendants to land them, and that 
such detention was justifiable until the landing charges 
Mipulated for in the Bill of Lading should be paid, such 
charges being specified as !;hose in a " Scale of charges to 
be seen at Agents' office." After some discussion the 
Court ruled that the plea (on the point of landing charges J 
that thei'e was no Scale of charges in the Agents* office, wa^ 
bad, as vague and indefinite in not specifying the day and 
hour at which the Scale was wanting. "But assume that 
the date and time were given,*' the Court went or to say-— 
'' the plea would still be bad. It might be that the plain^ 
tiffs called at the defendants* Agents' office at ^ past 
s p. m. on Wednesday the 5th June, 1S81, (or whatever the 
date and hour may be supposed) and asked to be shewn 
their scale of landing charges, and that he was told he could 
not see it just immediately because it had been sent to the 
next door office for a moment, but if he would be good 
eooiigh to sit down and take a chair for five minutes, the 
scale would be sent for and shewn !o him immediately : 
and if the defendant Company's Agents thus offered to the 
Plaintiffs at the said Agents* office within such a reasonable 
time as that of a few minutes, and were able as well as 
willing so to show it to them, it would be in my opinion 
absurd to say tlftit the scale of charges was ' not to be seen 
at the Agents* office/ and these last words indicate the only 
reasonable construction that can be put upon the actual 
words of the plaintiffs* plea (in connection with the Bill of 
Jading) : * Defendant Company had no scale of landing 
charges in their office/ In order to make the plea good it 
mast negative the words in the Bill of Lading, and say that 
no scale of charges was to be seen at the Agents' office, and 
the plaintiffs should further have alleged as part of their 
plea that they had asked at the office to to be shewn the 
fik^ale abd its exhibition had either been refused or unreason. 
ably delayed. Then only could it be said (negativing th* 
condition in the Bill of Lading) that no scale of charges was 
to be seen at the Agents* office. Although I think the plea 



88 

• 

is defective I will, to save risk of costs in appeal, hear what 
evidence the plaintiffs may have to support it. The storage 
charges, and the alleged non-delivery of the rest of the goods 
besides 5 per cent on the consignments, involve different 
considerations." 

Plaintiffs' Counsel then put in certain correspondence be- 
tween the parties and closed his case* except on the point 
of damages. Defendants* Counsel called George Alston, 
who had held a power of Attorney from the defendants' 
Agents at the time the consignments arrived, and who 
proved that at that time there was a scale of landing charges 
in the Agents* office copy of which scale he produced, 
another having been sent to plaintiffs in reply to a letter 
of theirs. The item of 9 cents per bag the witness pointed 
out as the landing charges to be paid by consignees. 

The District Judge gave judgment on the 5th April. 
The questions in dispute were (i) whether the consignees 
are bound to pay landing charges at the rates authorised by 
the Wharf and Warehouse Company's Ordinances 5 aud 
(2) whether they are liable at all for storing or warehouse 
charges. The Warehouse Company were simply defen- 
dants' Agents, and plaintiffs had no contracts with them, 
and (he landing must be taken to have been by defendants; 
similarlv, demand of charges »nd detention for non-payment 
by the Warehouse Company must be considered demand and 
detention by defendants. Plaintiffs should have ascertain, 
ed, before refusing to pay, whether the charges demanded 
by the defendants* Agents* the WarehousdciCompany, were 
excessive, by demanding sight of the scale of charges and 
giving reasonable lime for its production. 1 he charges 
have not been proved to be excessivCf and this failure is 
fatal. The Warehouse Company's charges cannot be very 
unreasonable, since they are sanctioued by the Legislature* 
but the defendant was at liberty to adopt any scale* apart 
from reasonableness, provided it could be ascertained at the 
Agents' offices. The charge, and the detention for non* 
payment of them, were therefore justifiable, (a) As to 
wharehousing charges, defendant was bound to take reason* 
able care of goods during detention, and is entitled to 
charge reasonable rates for such care. Moreover, the Bills 
of leading ezpres'sly provide for such storing, and stipulate 



89 

for the payment of storage charges before delivery, the 
charges made have not been shown to be unusual. 

Upon these findings the plaintiffs were nonsuited with 
costs* and they appealed. 

Gtenier (fpithers with him) for the plaintiffs, appellants. 
Browne (VanLangenberg with him) for defendants, 
respondents. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

DiAS, J., delivered the following judgments on 19th 
October : 

DiAS, J.-- [ After setting out the facts ]• The attention 
of both parties seems to have been confined to the construc- 
tion of the clause in the Bill of Lading* on which the 
defence is founded. The determination of this question 
materially depends on a piece of evidence which is not to 
be found in the case. In the early part of the correspond 
deuce between the parties on the subject* the plaintiffs de^ 
sired the defendants to allow them (the plaintiffs) to land 
the rice themselves. This they were clearly not entitled to 
do* as the defendants had the option of landing the rice 
themselves at the expense of the plaintiffs. The Bills of 
Lading provide that the charges of landing are to be paid 
according to a scale of charges to be seen at the defendants* 
Agents' office. Alston* who was the defendants' agent at 
Colombo* says that when the three ships arrived he had a 
Scale of charges in his office* and a copy of it was sent to 
the plaintiffs on the 19th October 188 1* The plaintiffs 
received this copy, and * according to their letter of the loth 
October, they returned it to the defendants' Agents. This 
scale of charges was before Mr* Alston when he was 
examined as a witness. It is not among ths proceedings^ 
aod the officiating District Judge* who was written to on 
the matter* says, *' that the document was only produced* 
but not put in evidence* and that the witness who produced 
it is now out of the Island." In the absence of this piece 
of evidence* we must look to the plaintiffs' letter of the 
30th October* in which they say that what they received 
was the Rules and Regulations, and Tariff of charges* of 
the Wharf and Warehouse Company, Limited. This evi« 
dently means the Schedule Ato Ordinance No. 10 of 1876, so 
modified as to cover only landing charges. In this Schedule 
A, rice per bag is put down at 10 cents, and where the 



goods are removea from the Wharf a redaction 61 i^ peit 
cent is allowed, and the 9 cents per bag referred to by Mr. 
Alston is evidently a reduction on the Schedule of to per 
cent, so as to meet the case of siropleianding- AsfHiming 
that the defendants insisted on their right to charge under 
the Schedule to the Ordinance, with a reduction of ib per 
cent, I am of opinion that t- e delendartts have acted within 
their contract. The Schedule to the Ordinance is a scale of 
charges, not only for landing, but also for warehousing, 
goods J and where goods are not warehoused, the ^o cents 
per bag is reduced to 9 cents, which is all that the defen. 
dants claimed. They had a perfect right to do so, and aUo 
to retain the rice, or as much of it as was sufficient to Cdver 
their claims, till the whole amount was satisfied. 

Under these circumstances it appears to me that the 
judgment of the District Judge is righs and that it must be 
affirmed. 

Clarence, J.— [ After setting out the facts,] When 

the rice arrived plaintiffs asked defendants to allow them to 

land it in their own boats- This defendants refused, and 

they were entitled to refuse. Defendants tlien landed the 

rice in the boats of the Wharf and Warehouse Co., and 

refused to procure to plaintiffs the rice out of the custody of 

the Wharf Co., except on the payment of that Company's 

statutory charges- The Wharf Company delivered most of 

the rice, and offered to deliver sill but 3 per cent, of the total, 

but they asserted their intention to detain the 5 per cent. 

until the charges were paid. The sum which the Wharf 

Company thus claimed was 9 cents per bag, amounting on 

the whole consignment to Rs. 576* 72, Plaintiffs tendered 

to defendants Rs. 265, which defendants declined to accept. 

Without going through the pleadings in detail, it is suffi- 
cient to say that the question between the parties is — 
whether defendants were warranted by the Bills of Lading 
in refusing to deliver the whole of the rice until the Wharf 
Company's charge of 9 cents per bag bad been paid. It is 
admitted that defendants have refused delivery of j percent 
of the whole consignment. 

By the Bills of Lading defendants were entitled to de- 
mand landing charges '' as per scale of charges to be seen 
at the Agents' offices." It has been assumed that this 
means the Agents' offices in Colombo, the port of delivery. 
Plaintiffs in their replication assert that defendants *' had no 



91 

scaFeof landing, charges in their oflSce," and'. defendants > iu 
cejoinder traverse that averment. Both parties no doubt 
roeaut to contest the question— whether there was a scale of 
eharges to be seen at the office of defendants* Agents^ who 
are Messrs. Alstons, Scott and Co. It appears from the 
evidence of Mr. AUton, who was called by defendants,, that 
there was 3' scale of charges in Alstons, Scott and Go's 
office, who proddced it at the trial. The- document, how- 
ever, seems not tahave been. formally put in evidence, and 
was taken away by the witness after having been inspected 
by the learned District Judge who tried the case. . If there 
were any question as to the identity of this scale of charges, . 
we might have allowed the document, which no doubt still 
exists in Messrs. Alstons, Scott and Go's office, to be now 
put in. There i?, howeverj no qnestion bat that the scale 
sp identified by AUton was a copy of the scale contained in 

Schedule A. of the Wharf Gam pa ny*s Ordinsmce No. lo of 
i87j6, and the substantial question argued before us was-— 
whether this was a scale of landing charges within thie 
meaning of the Bilts of Lading, Plaintiffs' counsel argued 
that the charge of 9 cents, per bag on imported rice was not 
charged as a '* landing charge,*' but as ** consolidated land.* 
iog and shipping charge"; that consequently there was no 
^ scale of landing charges to be seen at the Agents' office, 
within the meaning of the Bill of Lading, and consequently 
that there was no obligation on plaintiffs* part to pay any 
specific charges, but merely such amount as may be found 
reasonable,, which it is contended their tender of Rs. %6^ 
w^s. No evidence appears to have been adduced bearii>g 
directly on the question-^ wh)ether the Rs. 265 was or was 
not a reasonable remuneration for landing 6,408 bags of 
rice. The question is not — whether the 9 cents is a charge 
whichf the Wharf Company are entitled to charge their own 
OQstoroefS. under their Ocdinance, bat whether it is a charge 
which thft present defendants are entitled to make as against 
the presenti plaintiffs. There is no questida concerning the 
Whar^ C(»aipany*s right to detain the rice, bat the plaintiffs' 
Gontentio» is in substance this» They, say to the defen« 
dants : ** You had no scale of landinfi^ charges at your 
Agents' office^ and consequently we have tendered you a 
reasonable amount. It is nothing to us^ that you haj^e 
chosen, to incur a. charge of 9 cents per bag on. the rice. 



92 

That concerns yoa and the Wharf Company. You were 
bound at whatever cost to yourself to free this rice for us 
as soon as we tendered oor Rs 265.'* 

The Schedule in which the 9 cents per bag appears pots 
10 cents per bag as a charge for ^ receiving into boats, 
loading* conveying to the Company's Warehouses at the 
Wharfy warehoQsing» examining and weighing as required 
for Customs purposes, loading into cartSt conveyiny to and 
warehousing in the. Company's Warehouses and after de\u 
very from the Company's Warehouses**' There then foU 
lows the stipulation that ** when goods are removed from 
the Company^s premises at the Wharf by owners or cozu 
signees, and not placed in the Company's Warehouse^ a 
reduction of 10 per cent., will be made in the undermentioned 
charges." It thus appears that the 9 cents are charged for 
everything short of storage 'm the Company's Warehouses^ 
. or in other words for everything which may be necessary to 
be done in or^er to place the goods on the Wharf, free to be 
taken away by the owner. The Bills of Lading seem to 
contemplate the whola contingent expenditure in these 
transactions as divisible into landing charges and storage 
charges. We have no evidence before us as to what the 
term '' landing charges'* is usually understood to cover. It 
certainly does not seem to me unreasonable to understand 
it as covering all that had to be done in this case, in order 
to place the goods free on the Wharf ; and in the absence 
of evidence to the contrary I am not prepared to rule the 
contrary. 

I observe also that there is no evidence to show that 
Rs. 26$ was a reasonable amount* 

For these reasons I agree with my brother DiAS that this 
appeal fails» and I am of opinion that the appeal should be 
dismissed with costs. 

Appeal dismissed* 

Proctor for plaintiffs, A. 0> Joseph. 
Proctor for defendants* F. J, de Saram. 



98 

^th and igth October, 1882. 
Present— Di AS, J. 

P. C. ^ Mallegallege Batcht Hamy ^^ fciSI. 

Colombo, > V. '^^ I 

7,874. J Tantrige Habmanis Pibbis. 

Nonr-maintenance of illegitimate child^-Plea of aatrefoiii 
acqoit. 

Defendant on a charge of not maintaining' bis illegitimate child (in 
breach of subaect. a ot sect. 3 of the FagranU Ordinance, 1841) pleaded 
autr^ois acquit, showing that he had in a previous case been acquitted 
on. a charge tendered by complainant of not maintaining the same 
cbild. 

Beldf that though there was no special verdict on the point the pre- 
vious case must be taken to have disposed of the question of paternity, 
which was of the essence of the charge. 

Held also, that, the non^ maintenance of illegitimate children beii.g a 
criminal offence, the previous verdict tendered the matter now in issue- 
res oj^udieataf so that the special plea ought to have been sustained. 

The defendant was charged on a plaint dated 21st July 
1882 with having " since one month" left his illegitimate 
child by the complainant without maintenance, in breach of 
subsection 2 of section 3 of Ordinance No. 4 of 184 1. 

The defendant pleaded not guilty, and autrefois acquit in 
case No. 5,371 of the same Court, which the Magistrate 
i^Boake) now held was '* cl^'srly not a decision." Evidence 
was called on both sides, and the defendant convicted and 
fined Rs> 2. The defendant appealed. 

Grenier^ for the defendant, appellant— The verdict of ac- 
quittal entered in the case j>372, in which the parties were 
the same, supports the special plea taken. Had there been 
a distinct fiudiog that the defendant was not the father, it 
would have been conclusive. P> C Colomho, 5,008 (i). I 
submit we cannot now, in the absence of such special 
verHict, determine which ingredient of the charge failed, 
paternity or non.. maintenance. This being a criminal 
charge, the verdict of not guilty must be taken to discharge 
the defendant from any subsequent prosecution on sub^* 
stantially the same charge. The mistake hitherto has been 
to follow English authorities, which are wholly inapplicable. 
Under English law a proceeding against the putative father 
of a bastard cbild is not a proceeding in poenam to punish for 

(i) Grenier (1873), P. C, ai. 



94 

a crime, but is pratstically a civil suit* Hence a second appH- 
cation by the mother was not in all cases barred by a previ- 
ous failure to secure an order of affiliation. Our Ordinance, 
on the other handr- expressly makes noa^maintenance a- 
criminal offence punishable by imprisonment or fine. 

Alwisy for the complainant, respondent — Non-tnaintenance 
is a continuing offence, and'the fact that the defendant was 
acquitted of the charge of not maintaining his child in tlfe 
month ot January is no bar to his prosecution for not 
maintaining in June. The verdict in 5,372 may have d^* 
pended upon failure of proof- of non.mainteaaDce, whil« 
paternity, was proved. In the absence of express finding 
that defendant was not the father of the child the previous- 
acquittal does not bar the preseut charge. 

Cur, adv' vulti 

(19th October). Dias, J.— This is a charge against the^ 
accused under the Ordinance 4 of 18^1 for leaving his male 
illegitimate child by the complainant without maintenance 
or support. The accused first pleaded not guilty, and then 
pleaded autrefois aofuit. This latter plea should have been 
first pleaded, but as the accused does not seem to have had' 
the assistance of counsel I am willing to treat the p'^ea of 
autrefois acquit as properly taken. The learned Judge 
overruled the plea of autrefois acquit* and tried and convicted, 
the accused j aod the question which I have now to decide 
is, whether or not the plea of autrefois acquit should' have 
been upheld. In a previous case. No, 5>372> the com. 
plainant charged the accused with not maintaining the same 
child. After trial the accused was acquitted; In that case,, 
as in this, the issues of fact which the complainant had to 
establish were ist, that the accused was the father of the 
child* and 2nd, that he failed to maintain it. The very 
foundation of the charge was that the accused was tlie- 
father of the child, and the accused having been acquitted 
in the previous case, the question of paternity was finally 
disposed of, and it is not competent for the complainant to 
re^try the same fact. Non-maintenance of an illegitimate 
child is no doubt a continuing offence, and if the case rested 
only on that issue, the previous verdict will not operate as 
res adjudicata; but the case here is different. The pater- 



95 



Tfity of the child as well as the desertion were in is<;ue in 
both oases, and the previous case therefore is a bar to this 
case. See P. C. Colombo 5iOo8, (i). 

Set aside* Defendant acquitted* 



^th and \gth October, 1882. 
Present — Dias, J. 

?. C. i| AlTBROSB 

Gampola> > v. 
3>477 ^ Slbma Lbbbb* 

Local Board "Bye- law ---Ordinance No "] of Sy^-^Power 
to create criminal offences by passing by claws for purposes 
not specified in the Ordinance ~ Ultra vires. 

A Local Board established under Ordinance No. 7 of 1876 had passed 
a Bye.law making it an offence for any person after the 30th June of 
<ach year to keep a dog-, for which the tax levied by the Board had not 
i)een paid, within the limits ^f the Board and without Dotice thereof to 
tbe Board. The Bye^law professed to have been made under section 35 
of the Ordinance, and was published in the Gazelle as having been 
approved by the Governor in Executive Council. 

Held, that the bye^law in question did not fall und«r any of the 
eighteen purposes specified in section 35 ; and accordingly, 

Held, that the bje^law was ultra vires of the Local Board. 

^^in^— That the defendant did on the 12th day of 
Aagust 1^82 at Gampola, within the limits of the Local 
Board of Health, keep a dog for which no tax had been 
paid, and without notice thereof to the said Board, in breach 
of the 32nd clause of the bye^law of 2ind March 1881 made 
Qoder the provisions of the Ordinance No. 7 of 1&76. 

The bje-law referred to was published in the Government 

Gazette of 25th March i83r, and purported to have been 

made under § 35 of Ordinance 7* of 1876, and to have 

received the approval of H. E. the Lieutenant Governor with 

the advice and consent of tbe Executive Council. It ran as 

follows : 

*' 32. 1 he tax chargeable on all dogs kept within the town shall be 
payable and recoverable* on or before the 30th day of June in every year. 
^ any person shall keep a dog within tbe town after the 30th day of 
Junr, for which no tax has beien paid, he shall give notice thereof to 
the Board and shall, if be fails to do so, be guilty of an offence." 

(i) Grenicr (1873), P. C, 21. 



96 

Evidence was taken for the Complainant, and the Magis* 
trate (^* /^. Gibson) gave judgment as follows : 

" The passing of the bye^^laws and due proclamation 
thtieof have been proved, and also that the dog makes the 
defendant's boutique its usaal haunt. The defendant 
denies ownership, but the and clause of Ordinance No. 9 of 
184.2 provides that any person, whp shall knowingly suffer a 
dog to make his premises or house its ordinary place of resort^ 
shall be deemed and held the owner, unless it shall notori. 
ously be lung to some inmate of the house, and this defioi^ 
tion will clearly apply to actions brought under this Bye^ 
law. Very likely the dog is without an owner, bat the 
defendant by harbouring it has rendered himself liable to be 
held as owner. Defendant is fouud guilty, and sentenced 
to pay a line of Bs. 20.*' 

The defendant appealed. 

Greniert for the defendant— i^.r^/. Tl\e Local Board may 
levy taxes, but it cannot create new offences* as attempted 
here. IHUt^sleger v. KeUary (i), where it was held that 
even a b)e'*law requiring all owners of dogs to register them 
was ultra vire»» notwithstanding its approval by the Guver^ 
nor. Secondly* The dog is not proved to belong to the 
defendant. The old enactment relied upon by the Magis** 
trate only renders presumptive owners of dogs liable for 
damages done by them, and is. altogether inapplicable to the 
facts of the present case. 

The respondent did not appear on the appeal. 

Cur. adv, vult. 

(19th October). DiAS, J — This is a charge under a 
bye'*law of the Local Board of Health at Gampola, of the 
a 2nd March i8diy for keeping a dog for which no tax had 
been paid, and without notice to the said Local Board. The 
bye law referred to is to be found ia the Government Gazette 
ol 25th March 188 1> and bears date the 22Qd of that month. 
It purports to be a bye-law made under the 35th section of 
the Ordinance No. 7 of 1875. On referring to that section 
I find no authority in it to the Local Board to make a bye- 
law such as the one in question. That section authorises 
the Local Board to make bye.laws for eighteen specified 

(1) 2 S. C. C, 163. 



97 

porposes, one of which is for tba dostrirction of dogs. The 
b)-«.i4« in question makes it a crtminai offence to keep a 
dog within the town under certain eircc^aistaaces. The 
Ordinance gives no power to the Local Board to create 
oSonces. It only empowers them to make bye-laws in 
certain specified case;, and the breach of any such bye-law 
is made aik offence by the 79th clause of the Ordinance* In 
making the bye^law in question the Local Board has acted 
ultra viresi and the confirmation of it by the Governor does 
Qoi make k any more legal. 

The verdict and sentence sre set aside and the defendant 
is acquitted.* 

Set aside* Defendant acquitted* 



K^tk and 19/A OetobeTi 1882^ 
Present — Diasi J. 



:h of Mags. \ J. 
Kandy^ > 

17,820. J M 



Bench of Mags. ) J. T. Francke 

V. 

BYA Lbbbb and another. 



Bj^e-law, MunicipaJy dea ling with $ nne std>ject matter as 
earlier Ordinance ^Ordinan e No, 15 of i%6i'^Rye-law 
under Ordinance No. 17 of 1865. 

Where an OrdinaDce of 1862 made it an offence punishable with 9. 
fiqe of Rs. 50 to obstruct certain ofEcers in the execution of their duty 
in connection with the abatement of nuisances, and a byo>law made bf 
a MuQiQlpal Council aader aii Ordinaifcc of 1865 ci^titled it& officers t« 
the piotectioo accorded by the Ordinance of 1862 to the fit st. mentioned 
officers, and m^de resistance to them in the exercise of their duty 
pooisbable with a fine of Rs. 10; 

Htld, that a charge of resisting an inspector appointed by the Munici« 
PAi Couoeil, while in the exercise of his duty, was rightly laid under the 
Ordinance of 1862. 

• 

The defendants were charged with resisting the com* 
plainant, a Municipal Inspector, while in the execution of 

his duty as such, in breach of section 16 of Ordinance 

•. . I , , , ,1 ..■ — _ — ■ , . " 

* The same j^dgroent was passed in the following cases of the 
same Court, in which the charges were identically the same though 
against other patties; viz. Nos. 3478, 3479, 34851 3486, 1489. Iti 
Nos. 3479 and 3489 the defendants had pleaded guilty, but as tt 
»p» eared probable that thi* pl^ bad been pleaded in consequence of 
the convictions obtained in the other cases, the Appellate Court con- 
sidered it just to entertain the appeals in these two cases on the same 
fooling as the othcfs. 



98 

No. 1 5 of 1862. The facts sufficiently appear from the 
following judgment of the Court below {y. !B. Sielel and 
F. FanLangenberg, Magistrates) delivered on 31st August 
1882. 

** In this case complainant called his witnesses on the 29th 
July and closed his case, and the defendants were not ready 
with their evidence. A postponement was allowed, on 
their special application, to enable them to call their wit'* 
nesses on aoother day. 

** On the loth August instant, however, althongh witnesses 
were present* the defendants declined to call any evidence, 
their counsel contenting himself by raising certain objections 
to the plaint, which he contended was bad. These object 
tions we have noted, and the points raised were discassed 
with mnch skill and ability by learned counsel on both 
sides. It was contended for the defendants that the charge 
should have been laid under the municipal bye-law, sections 
18 and 22, chapter 20, of 9th September 1875, ^°^ ^^^ 
under the i6th clause of the Nuisances Ordinance, No, 15 of 
1862, because the subsequent bye.law overruled the provi- 
sions of the Ordinance i j of 1862, and also because they 
were inconsistent with each other, the bye law fixing 
Rs. 10 and the 16th clause of the Nuisances Ordinance, fixing 
Rs« 50 as penalty for the breach thereof. 

" There seems apparently, at first sight, much force in the 
argument ; but on careful consideration of the provisions of 
the bye-.law referred to and of the i6lh clause of the 
Nuisances Ordinance, we find that the supposed inconsis^ 
tency does not really exist.* The Nuisances Ordinance, No. 
I j of 1 852, was enacted by the Legislative Council of this 
island, was assented to by the Governor, and received the 
sanction of Her Majesty, and it is reasonable to suppose 
that the said Ordinance is still in force and must be regards 
ed as law until specially repealed by the legislature. 

** The Municipal Councils Ordinance 1865 empowers 
JVSunicipal Councils to make bye«laws as they may deem 
expedient for any of the purposes of the Ordinance, and 
when such bye-laws are made and approved of by the 
Governor and the Executive Council they undoubtedly be- 
come law, and every one is required, by proclamation in the 
Gazette, to take notice thereof accordingly ; but the mere 
fact of the approval of such bye^^laws being proclaimed in 
the Gazette, though at a date subsequent to the enactment 
of any Ordinance bearing on the same subject} has not, wo 



99 

think, the efleck ui revoking such ordinance or statute. 
Indeed it is extremely doubtful whether a bye«law, which 
is only a subsidiary or municipality^made law» can in any 
way supersede an ordinance which has not been specially 
repealed by a legislative enactment. The clause under 
which the present charge is laid being in our opinion still 
in force> we think that the complainant, who is a Municipal 
Inspector, is legally entitled to claim protection under it 
against a party who has molested him in the discharge of 
his duties, for bye- law chapter lo, section f, specially pro« 
vides " that the several officers appointed to be Municipal 
Inspectors shall have all the powers and protection in the 
discharge of their duties which are by the Nuisances Or di' 
nance, 1862, accorded to Officers of the Board of Health." 
So it is clear thac the complainant, who was on duty at the 
public market on the day in question, having been molested 
in the performance of his duties, was right in prosecuting 
his charge against the defendants under the Ordinance of 
1862, and in claiming protection under the i6th clause 
thereof. In fact, we think that the complainant could elect 
to proceed either under the bye-law or under the Odinance. 

*^ We notice also that, although the wording of the i6th 
clause of the said ordinance and of the bye-law referred to 
is substantially the same, the penalty in the one case is a 
sam not exceeding Rs. 50, and in the other a sum not 
exceeding Rs. 10. No inconsistency, however, results from 
this circamstance alone» inasmuch as the measure of punish^ 
ment is a matter for the Court's discretion, and should be 
considered by us only after determining the question of fact 
as to whether the defendants are guilty of the charge pre« 
ferred against them or not. 

** We have been also referred by the learned Counsel for the 
defendants to a passage in fiaron Puffendorf's work on the 
*' Law of Nature and Nations,** and to other authorities : 
bat we think it nnnecessary to refer to them at any length, 
because, for the reasons already given, we hold that the 
plaint is good, and we shall now proceed to consider the 
question of fact. 

" The evidence adduced by the complainant in support of 
his charge appears to us to be not only satisfactory but 
trustworthy, and we hold it proved that the complainant was> 
in the execution of his duty, that is to say, whilst proceed- 
ing to examine fish in the defendants' stall, obstructed and 



. 100 

molested by the defendants, and we roust iiad them there^ 
fore severally gaiky of the charge* 

'4t would appear that the itid d^fendaht (who >s a partner 
of the first) prevented the Complainant from makftig th6 
necessary examination of the fish, dnd th^t the ndise and 
uproar caused by him at the time brought the iSt defeti- 
dai^t to the scene, dnd that the latter then joined the and 
defendant in preventing the complainant from sliding and 
removing the fish and otherwise obstrCicted him in the 
discharge of his duties. 

'< iThe cross-examination of the complainant's witnesses 
by the defendants' counsel suggested the idea that the com- 
plainant made the seizure because the defendants had refused 
to let him purchase some fish on credit. The evidence 
before us, however, clearly establishes that such was not the 
case. 

'* The accused are severally found guilty and are adjudged 
to pay a fine of ten rupees each." 

Defendants appealed. 

No Counsel appeared for the appellants. 

y<mLangmlerg, for the camplaiaaiit respo ndeilt, was aol 
called upon. 

Cur. adv^ vuft. 

(19th October). Dus, J .-^Ajffirmed. 

h< I r 1 1 I imm 



0- R. 



26th October and ist Nwemher, iS8a* 

Present— D I AS, J. 
'\ Ba^tian t'Ekts 

/ V. 



Colombo, y ^j^^ CotottBO CttTfi by its Sfe WHtarf F. Hora- 
3»>a3*- ) lord. 

Club'^JRight tf Secretary to represent in Courts 

ftailkCiS stied for wtgiH foir #ork itnfl labdar done fbr the Meulant, 
a €hih» ani 8tnf«d AimfaftoBs mpotk Ibe Gltf b'a Soowtaiy. 

BtU, Vtksi ibe Ookxnbo Club wa* not ailthoribfld to.siie or «e sadd by 
any corpocate name, and that p1aiiitiS*8 right of action, if any, was 
against the individual persons who had ctmtraetdd the detJt. 



101 

The plaintXI &ued the defdndaat for Be. 98*12, for work 
and labour done, aad materials provided for the defendanc 
by the plaintiff as a carpedler^ as per account particulars 
filed, Horsford filed answer^ admitting receipt of sum. 
mens, and denying that he had authority to represent the 
defendant in the case. On the day of trial the plaintiff 
svore he bad done the work for Horsford, and that his 
aoooont was conect. The Goiamissioner (y. £« SnHurt} 
held, <' that service of the summons on the Secretary of a 
CUnb is good ser?ice» inasmuch as the Secretary is the recog- 
nised agent pf the committee*" and gave judgment for 
plamtiff. 

In appeal by the defendant^ 

Layard for the appellant. 
Bhito- for the ieBpoiide<it» 

Carr. adv» vtdt. 

s 

(ist Noveaiber)^ Dias, J.— This action is altogether 
misconceived. The defendant is described as '^'^ The Golom**^ 
IttCIob by its Secretary F. Horsford.*' A summons was 
served on Mr Horsford. and, though oot bound to take any 
notice of at» he appeared and pleaded that he did not repre« 
seat the Colombo Club. ^ The Commissioner gave judg- 
ment for the plaintiff, but against whom» the record does 
sho«r. The 8o..called Colombo Club is not a person known 
to the law. If a body of gentlemen chose to represent 
themselves as the Colombo Club and contracted a debt to 
plaintiff, he was bound to sue them as defendants ia the 
case, i am not aware of any law which authorises the 
(Mombo tJlub tb sue vt be sued by any cOrpdr*te Qaioe. 
Set asidie atid plaititif! ndti-^uited with costs^ 



8ei aside. 



ftfxtoT for the plaintiff, H J. C. Pereira. 
Proctor for the defendant, F. L. Daniel- 



102 

26th October and ist Novembtr, 18S2. 

Present— Di AS, J, 

P. C, \ C. G. Bell 
Dirobula, > v. 

• 6,550. J DlLLO. 

Ordinance No, ii of 186^, sect, ir-^** Quitting service,** 



On a charge under § 1 1 of the Labour Ordinance of qiiitting service 
without notice or reasonable cause, the evidence showed that defendant 
was complainant's cook, having also to work in the oungalow, and 
that one evening, after preparing the ^- inner, he went away without 
leave (leaving his boxes behind) and returned the next morning. 

Held, that these facts did not amount to a quitting oC complainant's 
service within the meaning of the Ordinance. 

The plaint charged the defendant with quitting the com* 
plainant's service before expiry of his term of service^ 
without reasonable cause, and without giving due notice, 
he, the defendant, being a monthly paid servant of the com*' 
piaioant. 

The evidence showed that defendant was a cook (having 
also to work in the bungalow) and one evening, after pre* 
paring the dinner, he went away from complainant's house 
(leaving his boxes behind) and returned the next morning* 
when he was informed his services were not further requir* 
ed. The Magistrate (^. A- Bell) convicted the defendant 
and sentenced him to imprisoumont for one mouth at hard 
labor. 

Defendant appealed. 

FanLangenberg, for the appellant — Before a servant can 
be convicted ot desertion there must be proof of an inteo« 
lion to desert. A mere temporary absence will not amouat 
in law to desertion. The intention in this case to return 
was evidenced by the servant having left his personal goods 
behind. 

Cur, adv. vult. 

(ist November). Dias, J.— This is a charge under the 
Servants Ordinance of desertion. The defendant, it appears, 
is a cook of the complainant, and there is no evidence that 
as such it was his duty to stay at the bungalow at night. 
He left at 9 p.m. of the aoth September, and returned the 
following morning. Besides, the evidence does not show 



103 

any iatention on the part of the defendant to quit the 
complainant's service. Set aside and the defeadanc ac- 
quitted. 

Set aside. 



26th October and ist November, 1882. 

Present— DiASi J. 

D. C. Cr. ^ Kadirawail 
Kurunegala* > v. ' 

29036. J Kaobr Mbbdin. 

7!^^^/— Animas f urandi— De^/ due to defendant. 

Defendant was charged with the theft of certain jewels and a sum of 
Rs. 1 7. The evidence showed that the property had been taken from 
the tiead body of a woman who at the time of her death was defen* 
dam's debtor on a promissory note. Defendant had also taken the 
jewels in the presence of neighbours, to whom he had declared that he 
took them as security till his debt should be paid. 

Heldf that this* evidence disclosed an absence of the animus furandif 
and that defendant was entitled to be acquitted on the charge of theft. 

The defendant was indicted for stealing certain articles 
of jewelry and a sum of Rs, 17 in cash. The property was 
laid in the son of a woman named £liemail, from whose 
body* almost immediately after her death, the articles and 
money were removed by the defendant. The District 
Judge (Skarpe) who tried the case convicted the defendant 
in the following judgment, 

" The mother of the complaioant in this case died rather 
nnexpectedly, although she had been ill for some time, betore 
daybreak on the morning^of the 3rd April last, at fialalle, 
10 the house which they two occupied ; and the accused 
hearing the cries of the complainant, an intelligent, boy of 
thirteen^ went up to the house, and bearing of the woman's 
death entered the room where the body lay and proceeded 
at once to rifle the corpse of all the ornaments which the 
poor woman hiad on her person, and of the sum of rupees 
seventeen which had been tied up in a handkerchief wrapped 
round her- The complainant and neighbours (who had also 
come up) seeing this remonstrated with accused 3 who de- 
clared that he look the property in order to secure a debt 
which he asserted was due him by the deceased £ilemail* 
The bjr-standera discussed the question whether accused was 



104 

justified In doiog so, tMit seem to have felt precluded frotti 
interfering to prevent accused walking off to his bouse Wttb 
the property, wbich he proceeded to do. It has b^o ioit 
genioosly contended for the accused that this outrage, how- 
ever revolting and unwarrantable^ did not amount to theft, 
inasmuch as it was perpetrated under a supposed sense of 
right on accused's part» and of the aecessity to secure him** 
self in a renaote locality : and evidence of a debt due by the 
deceased on a Promissory Note was put in at the trial. But 
the facts proved would in my judgment amount to robbery 
even under English Law, for by the doctrine of relatioiu 
the false statement made by the accused before the Justice 
of the Peace when he resolved to hark back and deny the 
entry of ^he house and removal of the property, and trust to 
shaking or impugning at the trial the evidence which mig^ht 
be adduced, amounted to conversion. Fortunately, owing 
to the fact of Mr* Ffinch, the Provincial /Vssistant ot the 
P. W. D., hap(>ening next day to be at Balalle, and taking 
trouble to hold an informal enquiry, and to the evidence of 
the Rest House Keeper at the trial being very satisfactory* 
this design was frustrated. Under the more scientilic and 
similar de6niiion of ** furtum** in the Civil Law which is 
stated as '* the taking of moveable property without the 
knowledge and against the will of the owner with the view 
to benefit ourselves or others,'* the accused is» I think* 
plainly guiliy. I brush away the technical cobwebs regard* 
ing ownership, and hold the property in the house to have 
at once vested in complainant on the death of the mother i 
for Omnia prcesumuniur contra spoliatoritm. The accused 
is theretore convicted^ but I shall take into account in 
sentencing him the fact that he behaved subsequently with 
kindness in helping the boy to have the body of bis mother 
decently interred. The accused is sentenced to be impri* 
soned at hard labor for four months." 

1 he defendant appealed* 

Orenier, for the appellant— The fact that a debt wa§ due 
to the defendant by the woman has been abundantly prov- 
ed, and the evidence on this point has very properly act 
been discredited. The witnesses for the prosecution have 
established that the taking of the articles was done openly 
and in their presence* and the defendant's intention was 
disclosd by his statement, made at the time,* that he took 



lOS 

tile articles as Security for his debt". The learned Judge has 
altogether miiiapplied both the legal maxim and the legal 
Irction cited 'by him. The <]uestton of ownership is not 
touched by the presumption which he refers to> and which 
cannoc in any sense support the title of the complainant. 
That title must be proved independently of mere presump - 
lions. As to the defendant's subsequent denial before the 
Jiistfce of the Peace, if such denial had stood alone, and it 
was shewn to foe false, the defendant's theftuous intention 
might possibly have been presumed, but here any such pre* 
somption would be completely rebutted by the positive 
proof as to the animus of the defendant. His conduct no 
doubt was n:H>st indecent and improper, judged by our 
standard of propriety, but he cannot be convicted of theft. 
Besides, a great deal of hearsay evidence was improperly 
admitted at the trial, notably that of Mr. Ffinch, to whom 
allusion is made in the judgment. 

Dumbleton^ Acting D. ^. A-t for the respondent — The 
Judge no doubt has not expressly discredited the evidence 
as to the debt, but that evidence is most unsatisfactory, la 
the absence of any proof that there were other heirs of the 
woman, the property was rightly laid in her son. No claim 
to it has been made by third parties. It is more than 
probable that the defendant's orginal statement, on which 
Counsel for appellant relied, was made when or after he was 
detected in the act of spoliation. His after-denial to the 
Justice of the Peace negatives the alleged innocence of his 
act and supports an animus fur andi. 

Cur. adv. vult, 

DiAS, J. — There can be no doubt that the accused took 
the gold ornaments from the person of the woman, after 
her death— but all the evidence goes to prove that he took' 
them under a mistaken belief that he had a right to take 
thera till the debt due to him from, the deceased was paid 
and satisfied. All that can be said is that the defendant 
committed a very heartless act of impropriety, but that is 
not sufficient to convict him on this information. The 
evidence seems to me to negative any presumption that the 
defendant look the articles animo fur andi. This being so> 
the defendant is entitled to be acquitted. 

Set aside. Defendant acquitted^ 



106 

a6ih October and Jth November, i88a. 

Present— Clarence and Dias, J J. 

D. C. ^ Emily Barrie 
Kandy, > v. 

88,445. J Allah Pitche. 

Mortgage, hypothecation and part assignment of to mart' 
gagee's creditor^ Suit to enforce such mortgage against third 
party in possession of projperty mortgagei'^Proqfqf debt dus 
by party assigning. 

S., the owner of Grotto Estate, morteaged it in 1875 to W. to secure 
a debt and future advances. In 1876 W. by deed acknowledged a debt 
due to plaintif!, and as security hypothecated to plaintiff W.'s mortgage 
on Grotto, giving plaintiff a Power of Attorney to sue on Vf.Js mort* 
);age to recover such part of S 's debt to W. as would cover W.'s debt to 
plaintiff. In 1878 S. sold Grotto to A. who re-sold to defendant. Piaia- 
tiff having in 1880 obtained judgment against W. and S. 00 the bond 
of 1876 declaring S.'s debt to W. executable pro tanto in satisfaction of 
that judgment, and declaring also the property mortgaged by S. to W. 
so executable, sought to sell Grotto in execution, and brought the present 
suit to set aside defendant's objection to such sale. 

fJeldy that plaintiff's judgment agaiuct W. and S. did not bind the 
defendant, and that before she could seek to enforce S.'s mortgage to 
W., she was bound to establish as against the defendant that a debt 
was owing to her. from W. ; and this she had neither averred nor proved ; 
and that plaintiff was therefore not entitled to the relief prayed agaiiuc 
defendant. 

The following judgment by Lawrie, D.J.> explains the 
facts of the case : 

" Mr. Shipton was owner of Grotto Estate. It is said 
that he mortgaged it to Mr. Mac Lagan for R8« 8,000* bat 
as that deed has not been produced I do not know whether 
the debt was secured over Grotto only or over other Estates 
also. Afterwards* when Mr. Shipton had contracted a large 
debt to Messrs. Wall, he granted to them a mortgage 
No. 1776, dated 5th and 17th November 1875, ^^^^ several 
Estates including Grotto. The amount of the mortgage 
debt is said to have been Bs. 107,500. The Estates which 
Mr. Shipton mortgaged were probably not worth that large 
sum* but tbey were I prespme worth at least Rs. aoyooo* 
for in January 1876 Messrs. Wall> in consideration of a 
payment of Bs. 20,000, assigned to Mrs. Barrie their in* 
terest to that extent in the mortgage bond by Mr. Shiptoa 
to them. That deed was registered as an incumbrance over 
Grotto. The evkleace before me is meagre, but 1 think I 



f 



;• 



107 

understood that Messrs. Wall had possession of Grotto and 

the other estates mortgaged to them by Mr. Shipton, and 
that in 1878 they were aniioas to be reliered of the trouble 
and expense of managing and cultivating these* and resolved 
to sell .them for what they would fetch. Mr. Shipton had 
practically no interest in these i they were burdened above 
iheir value. After some negotiations, Abdulla was found 
to be willing to pay Rs. 3>ooo for Orotto. That sum is 
said by Mr. Wall to have been the f o)l value of the Estate, 
and in consideration of payment of that Mr. Shipton signed 
a transfer to Abdulla, in which he declared that the land was 
free from any incumbrance. How he could say that I cannot 
imagine* for at that time the Estate was burdened with 
the mortgage of Rs. 107,00, which has not yet been paid. 
The debt of Mr. MacLagan is said to have been paid off 
about that tiroe« I do not know whether the discharge is 
registered. The register, however, still records that Mr. 
Shipton had mortgaged Grotto for Rs, 107,000 to Messrs. 
George Wall & Co., and that Messrs. George Wall A 
Co. had assigned or mortgaged their interest in that 
mortgage for Rs. 20,000 to Mrs. Barrie. If Abdulla 
trasted to the statement in the transfer to him, and 
thought that in consideration of payment of the full value 
he was buying an unburdened Estate, what he did buy-— at 
least all that Mr. Shipton cou'd transfer to him, was the 
proprietary rights in an Estate already burdened above its 
value to Messrs. George Wall & Co. Mr. Wall seemed to 
think that the secondary mortgage to his firm and the 
assignment of that to Mrs* Barrie became null and void ipso 
JaciB by the sale to Abdslla for Rs. 3>030« If, he urges, the 
fall price was much less than the amount of the primary 
mortgage to Mr. MacLagan, what was there left for the 
second mortgagee ^ It is, however, forgotten that the 
second mortgage was not discharged, that it remained io 
the register, and that the secondary mortgagees, though they 
negotiated the sale to Abdulla, did not bind themselves in 
any way and did not waive any of their rights* So far aa 
appears from the proof, nothing was said by Messrs. Wall 
and Co. to the purchaser Abdulla, which would bar the firm 
realizing their mortgage over Grotto. Mr. Shipton express^ 
ly guaranteed that there was no burden on it, but he had 
no power to afifect the rights of Messrs. Wall. But what, 
ever part Messrs. Wall took in this, and however they may 
in equity be barred from insisting on the mortgage over thp 



108 

land sold to AbduUa, it does not appear that that ^m had 
any power to diminish Mrs. Barries rights; the firm had 
got Rs. «o,ooo from that lady and had given her an assign^ 
roent of a mortgage over certain lands. She was entitled to 
trust that theyr at least> would do noching which could 
lessen her rights, and I am of opinion that Messrs, Wall 
had no power to afiCc^ct Mrs* Barrie's intorests, and that m 
fact they did not affect then. Mrs. Barrie's rights as mort« 
gagee over Grotto I hold remained and still' remain intact, 
and no sale by Mv. Shipton, even though consented to by 
JMIessrs. Wall^ could affect Mrs. Barrie's rights as appearinu^ 
on the face of the record. The counsel for the defendant 
urged that Mrs. Barrie has no title to sue > he maintained 
that she should first have constituted her debt against 
Messrs. Geori^e Wall, or rather against the assignee in 
Messrs. Wall's insolvencyr that she should then have seized 
and sold and purchased Messrs. WalPs interest in the bond 
to them by Mr. Shipton 3 that having purchased it,, shs 
should have sued Mr. Shipton and sold his rights in Grotto 
£state and have called the present owner to shew cause 
why the land should not be sold under the mortgage. I 
do not know that I (]^uite apprehend the objections to the 
course which Mrs. Barrie did take. She sued Messrs. 
George Wall and Mr. Shipton in one action in Colombo,.and 
obtained judgment against them, and bow she seeks to 
realize the mortgage against the present owner. I think 
she has a title to sue, that it would be waste of time to 
insist on her doing more than she has done. The present 
owner, the deiendant, is to be pitied, for I think he has 
been deceived, and that he will lose the money be paid 
trusting to Messrs. George Wall and Co., but I cannot 
regret the judgment I now give^ for it seems to me to be 
of the highest importance that the rule should be rigidly 
enforced^ that a registered mortgage is a good and subsists, 
ing burden on land until it be discharged or until the land 
be sold in an action to which the parties interested in that 
mortgage were made parties. I am for giving judgment for 
the plaintiff with costs* No damages." 

Defendant appealed. 

Grenier for the appellant. 

Browne for the plaintiff, respondent. 



Cur, aidv* vulU 



109 

(7th November). Cla>rbnce> J.— The substantial fact» 
in this case are these: — In 1875 Dr. Shipton mortgaged 
{inter alia) ** Grotto'* Estate to George Wall & Co. ta 
secure a debt and future advances. lo' January 18; 6^ by » 
deed of that date, George Wall & Co. acknowledged a debb 
of Rs. 20,000 as dae by them to preset^ plaintiff, and as 
security therefor hypothecated to her their own mortgage 
on ''^ Grotto.*' This deed of J,anuary 1876 contained a 
Power of Attorney which purported to empower plaintiff to 
sue on George Wall k. Co/s mortgage ; not however for the 
whole mortgage debt due to them but for Rs. 20,000 only. 
In 1878 Dr. Shipton sold ' Grotto-* to one Abduila* who 
atterwards resold ta present defendant. It appears by a 
note of the learned District Judge to have been admitted at 
the trial that a primary mortgage on *' Grotto" prior to 
George Wall & Co.*s mortgage was paid out of Abdulla's 
purchase money« but on this appeal nothing turns on that* 

In January 1880 present plaintiff brought acrion on her 
hypothecatory deed> that of January i8;6> against the part« 
Ders in the firm of George Wall & Co., the assignees under 
their iosolveacy, and Dr. Shipton. Pn ttiat action she 
obtained a decree which included a judgment against Gn^org3 
Wall & Co. for Rs^. 20,00a, interest and costs, a declaration 
that Dr. Shipton's debt to them was pro tanto eKecutaale in 
satisfaction of that judgment, and a direction to the Fiscal 
to levy on {inter alia) ** Grotto.** There was abo a decla- 
ration that ^* Grotto" and other estates were specially execu^ 
table for the mortgage debt due oa Shipton's mortgage 
to George Wall & Co., but that debt was not ascertained 
in the decree. 

Plaintiff under that decree seized " Grotto." Defendant 
opposed the sale,, and plainti£E now prays for a decree that 
" Grotto** is liable to be sold under the decree in the former 
action. 

Defendant appeals against a decree ia terms of that prayer* 

PlaintifiTs decree in her suit against George Wall & Co. 
and their assignees in Insolvency and Dr. Shipton is not 
binding on present defendant, bhe has the right by virtue 
of her hypothecatory deed and the judgment on it to attach 
the DQortgage debt due by Dr. Shipton to George Wall &. 
Co , whatever may be its amount. But as far as she may seek 
by virtue of her power of attaching or otherwise to enforce 
George Wall & Co.*s mortgage against defendant, she has to 
establish against defendant that a debt is owing to hei: by 







110 

George Wall & Co., and that she neither averred nor proved. 
And in fact her suit against present defendant is framed 
simply on the footing of a prayer to enforce as against the 
land in his possession a decree to which he is neither party 
nor privy. 

Under these circumstances it seems to me that plaintiff 
has not* entitled herself to the relief prayed for by her and 
decreed to her by the District Court, and in my opinion 
defendant should be absolved from the instance with costs 
in both courtSt 



DiAS, J , concurred. 



Set aside. Defendant absolved 
from the instance. 



Proctor for the plaintiff, F. VanLangenherg' 
Proctor for the defendant, M, C- bidde Lebhe* 



^^st October and Jth November, i88a. 
Present*— Clarbnck and DiaSf 3 J* 
Bench of Mags. *) A* Bawa 

AsHMORB and G. H. YanHoutbiy. 



ich of Mags. ^ A* Bi 
Kandy, > v. 

17,87.;. J A.M. 



yudge ^Power to order removal of proctor appearing in 
cause -- Bond Jide belief that Court* s business was bang 
obstructei* 

A Commissioner of .Requests has clearly power to turn out of Court 
any one who obstructs or disturbs the business o! the Courts even 
though such person be an Advocate or Proctor act'ially engaged in the 
pending case. It is also within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner, 
as a matter of course, to determine whether or not any person to whom 
his attention may be directed is so obstructing or disturbing the business 
as to render it expedient that such person be removed trom the Court. 
And if the Commissioner have decided that point in the affiimative and 
acted accordingly, he is protected against action, civil or criminaf^ 
[ unless he have acted with malice ], and the correctness of his opinion 
on the facts cannot be reviewed by another tribunal in any sepairate 
action founded on such act. 

The facts of this case sufficiently appear from the judg^ 
ment of the Bench of Magistrates (consisting of Messrs. 
J. B. SiBBBL and F. VanLanqbnbbro) delivered on i6tb 



Ill 

September 18^2, and that of the Appellate Court. The 
jedgment of Che Coart below was as follows : 

This case was tried bj us on the 3 ist August last, but we 
were obliged to defer judgment as the first defendant wish* 
ed OS to refer to the Court of Requests case No. i9»82 j,* 
which was at the time before the Appellat<» Court. The 
Record was forwarded to us by the Commissioner only on 
the 8th instant, on its receipt by him from the Supreme 
Court, 

The circumstances under which this Court entertained 
the plaint and ordered summons to issue against the deleiu 
ddnts will appear on reference to the statement made by 
complainant on the i^ih July last» and which was duly 
recorded by us in the minutes of the proceedings. 

The two defendants (the first of whom is the Police 
Magistrate and Commissioner of the Court of Requests of 
Kandy, and the second an Inspector of Police) are charged 
in this action by the complainant, who is a Pructor of the 
Supreme Court, with assault and false imprisonmnent : and 
we shall here briefly state a few of the facts and circun> 
stances connected with this charge as deposed to by the 
complainant's witnesses. 

It would appear that complainant who is practising in 
the Courts here, was retained by the defendant in case 
No. 19,823 of ibe Court of Bequests. The case was fixed 
for hear ng on the I2ch of July, and when parties' names 
were called in due course, Mr. fiawa, the complainant, ap« 
peared and applied to the Commissioner (the ist defeudant) 
to be allowed to amend the answer in the case, which had 
been unskilfully drawn by a petition-drawer and filed by the 
defendant in person, and which answer the complainant; 
thought should be amended by the defendant claiming title 
to the premises, which formed the subject of dispute. The 
complainant's application to amend was ultimately refused 
by the 1st defendant, but, bsfore any order was definitively 
made, it appears that a discussion took place between the 
complainant and the ist defendant which led to the com. 
plainant's removal from Court. 

It would further appear that while the complainant was 
addressing the Court in support of his moiion for the amende 
ment the ist defendant motioned to the complainant twicei 

* For a note of this case, see Appendix D. 



112 

hy waving hrs hand, to sit down, of which the complainaat 
took no heed. The ist defendant then directed the com« 
plainant to sit down. He replied that he woold do so, if 
the defendant thought he had urged everything that coald 
have been urged by him in support of his application. After 
making this remark the oomplainant continued addressing 
the Court, whea the ist defendant ordered the 2nd defen... 
dant to turn the complainant out of Court, wbicti order was 
at once carried into execution by the 2nd defendant. 

The facts above detailed are proved, and, we believe, un^ 
disputed in the 1st defendant's statement oi^ defence; and 
Mve are now called upon to determine how far the defendants 
are criminally responsible^ it they are responsible at all, for 
their acts. 

The quest-ion raised, we are happy to think for the first 
time in the annals of our Courts is one of great importance, 
involving, as it does, the mutual rights and privileges of 
Judges of Inferior Courts a».d members of the bar, and in 
whichever way we may decide this question, we hope that 
the unsuccessful party would, by an appeal to the Supreme 
Court, obtain an authoritative decision on the point. 

If a Proctor, upon instructions from his client and in the 
exercise of his discretion, thinks it necessary to amend a 
pleading, whether filed by him or his client in person, has 
that proctor a right afterwards to appear before the judge 
and make an application for the amendment of such plead- 
ing ? We think that his right to do so is undoubted, and 
that the judge is bound to hear and determine the application 
when so made. 

We hold therefore that the complainant's application , 
made in the case above referred to, on the 12th July last, 
was a proper and a legitimate one, calculated to make the 
true issue clearer than it was, although the ist defendant 
has characterized it as ** extraordinary.** Not only was the 
application disallowed, without, so far as can be gathered 
from the cross-examination of the witnesses and the state* 
raents in defence, the complainant being fully heard in 
support of his motion, but the complainant's efforts to be 
heard in support of the amendment resulted, as we said 
before, in his forcible removal from Court. The com- 
plainant, it must be borne in mind, was then in his profes- 
sional capacity retained to defend the cause of his client, 
and, under thestt circumstances, was the ist defendant justi- 



113 

fied in ordering the 2:nd defendant to turn the complainant 
oat. of Court, and was the 2nd defendant justified in carry^ 
ing this order into effect > and in so doing was he justified 
in resorting to force ? 

We have no hesitation whatever in saying that the ist 
defendant acted in a most arbitrary manner in giving the 
order, especially in view of the fact, supported by the defence, 
that there was nothing disrespectful in complainant's tone 
or manner. He clearly exceeded his powers and functions 
a& a judge» and his conduct seems to us to have been 
altogether unwarranted and unjustifiable, and the case 
against bim is rendered more serious by the aggravating 
circumstance that he persisted in his illegal order even after 
the complainant offered to sit down. 

It is in evidence that, when the complainant was in the 
act of taking his seat, the and defendant laid hold of him 
by his arm and Jorcibly removed him out of Court, and there 
detained him, and he was not allowed to return to the 
Court except to take his hat and papers^ which were then 
lying on the table. 

By the removal of the complainant from Court, and his 
detention outside, he was not only subjected to very great 
humiliation, but his client was deprived of his assistance 
and the benefit of his professional services, for we find that 
the case was proceeded with later, in the absence of the 
complainant. 

It is very mudh to be regretted that the ist defendant, one 
of the principal magistrates in this important province, 
should have so far forgotten his position and the considera^ 
tion due to a Proctor holding the license of the Supreme 
Coart to practise his profession in any Court in the Island* 
as to have treated the complainant in the manner in which 
the iSt defendant did. Such high.handed and arbitrary 
proceedings are much to be deprecated, for they are calcu- 
lated not only to disturb the cordial relations between the 
Bench aad the Bar, but also to affect the calm and impartial 
consideration of cases brought before the Court for adjudi- 
cdtioo, and, thereby, the administration of justice in this 

colony. 

Judges have unquestionably certain powers conferred on 
them, and, amongst others, powers for preserving order and 
decorum in their Courts, but such powers must be exercised- 
with calmness and moderation, and then only will the law 
protect them, when acting in their judicial capacity. In 



in 

like manu^r, priictitioiiers as well as istiiidrs litve 'Cefrtai'ui 
rights and priviJeges which caonot be set at ooaght by 
judges or raagistrateiS* Cerlainlj, qo judge would be jasti^ 
fied ia resortiag to unnecessary force or violeaoe even in 
Uie assertion of welUfouDded rights* and in this t^ase* we 
consider that unneoessafy force was used by the second 
defendarnt, for we have it in evideDcei lirst that the eom* 
^plaiDant*s copdoct and a^aoner did not justify his removal^ 
9<sCQnd that he c^ered to sit down before he wacs Uwched, 
and third that he was forcibly Temoved, If 8ncli«cts as the 
^first defendant has been ^proved to be gniity of 'are allowed 
to pass unnoticed aod unpunished, no member of the pro* 
fcssion will feel that he "can with any sense of safety do his 
duty fearlessly and honestly, and suitors will thus bave their 
interests S9crificed to a dread on the part of those who con- 
duct their cases of their being publicly degraded. While 
paying this xpuch we do not forget that practitioners and 
:9qitors are dso uodoubtedly liable to be proceeded against 
crisDipally and punished as for contempt, in the event of 
their abusing the rights and ^privileges, allowed to them by 
'law. As remarked by our 4ate Chief Justice, Sir John 
Phear, in a case reported in the Supreme Couri Circular^ 
*' Contempt is a criminal offence," and the definition of it 
is ^ fqllows : <-*^ It is committed when any one doe^, says 
or exhibits any acts, words, or behaviour in disrespect of 
the authority of the court, such as have the efiect or are 
calculated to have the elEect, jSr^, of preventing or disturb* 
ing the orderly course and seemly conduct of the public 
business of the Court, or, secondly, of obstructing, hindering 
or preventing the impartial action of the Court in the ad« 
ministration of Justice**' (i) But we find none of these 
elements present in this case to constitute or warrant a 
charge of contempt* and, besides, it is not pretended that 
the complainant bad acted in an improper manner, or that 
his conduct was in my degree contemptuous of the Court or 
in any way in disrespect of the Court's authority* 

We find also that the County Courts Acty 9 and 10 Vic« 
torfa, c* 95, s. 113, gives the judge power to commit persons 
for any insults wilfully offered to him or his officers^ or for 
any wilful interruption of the prooeedings of the Court or 
any other mis- behaviour in Court : but in the present case 
the witnesses all speak to the correct and respectful beha^ 

■ I ' ' ■ 11 ■ ■ ■ ■ I 1 1 » 

(1) Sera Mudaly v. hnaU, 1 S. C. C, 62. 



us. 

nom of the eomplainant towards the lat dHendimt. Ibn 
deed, if the complainaat had behaved improperly, the first 
defefndmt had the power to dealwith him as for a contempt 
of Com*t^or to report him to the Supreme Oourt ; bat, i» 
^e absente of aoy charge of the kiodi #e coosider thaS 
Ihe order of the ist ddendant to the Mid defeadaafr to 
remoiw the eompiakiaiit oat of* Court wa» ultra vvres^ aad 
the forcible removal of the complainaot by and befendaat 
from Ooart and hiB sobsequent. detention outside was illegal,. 
and thait these aets of the defendanta go to constitute the 
assault aad false impriaonment charged. against them in the^ 
plaint. 

We were referred by the rst dereadant to District Couv6' 
Xaluiara oase. No. 34,611,(1) as an authority in favor of . 
hfs cooteniion that he was justified in the ateps taken by. 
Kian againa^tbe oorarplainant. We do not think that this 
ease helps the contention of the ist defendant at aU« for the ' 
defence tbesein urged by bhe defendant (the Police Magis- 
trate of B^aadure) w^s that the plaintiff in that case miscon*- 
ducted himself, disturbed the defendant in the discharge of 
ftis duties ami was guilty df a contempt of Court. Itt this. 
ea8e,.howiel»f> the evidence is all Ihe other w^, andi» ta use 
tiie words ef the witness Mr. Jonkfaesv '^the complainant 
fpiis id no> way diarespectful> either in langua^^, . tonet or 
mannefv" 

We therefore hold that the charge againat the defendants- 
has been satisfactorily establisfae^d^ and> lllthongh the ist 
defendant,, in his defence, . took upon himself the w4i6le 
lesponsibitity ef the acts complained of* this does oot, iii out^ 
opinion, absolv^e the 2nd defendant from his criminal liabi* 
Kfy,. for no' person, far feissa police officer, is bound te c«rry 
out an illegal* order. We tiierefore find the defeadants^ 
severally gtulty of the charges preferred- against the«r ^nd^ 
we think that the justice of the case will be met by adjudge 
iog the fir^ defendant to pay a fineef.Rs. ao, and and-. 
diefendai^ te pay a fine o^ RS» 5. 

At the el^oseef the ease fo» the proseoufion^ the defeodaots*. 
had nradie the following statements:* 

The first defendant stated * that he wished « to take upon 
himself the entire responsifaiffty of the acts etKnpkiiied of. 
That the aad* defendant (the Court Inspector) siwply obeyed 



(i) For a report of tbia case see Appendix. C. 



116 

the ist defendant's orders and was in no way to blame* 
That he ( I St defendant) rested his defence on the evideace 
of Mr. Jonklaas> whose statements were correct as to what 
had transpired in Court on the occasion in question, and that 
he also conceded that the complainant was in no way disres- 
pectful towards him. That as the complainant did not take 
his seat after he had been asked to do so a third time, he 
(ist defei^dant) was justified in having him removed out of 
Court' He also referred the Court to D, C. Kalutara No. 
54,611 as supporting his contention that he was not liable 
criminally, and pointed out that no malice was proved 
against him. The first defendant also wished the Court to 
refer to C. R* Kandy No. 19,820", which had given rise to 
these proceedings. 

The second defendant said that he was justified in carry^ 
out the orders of ist defendant^ who was his superior and 
also a Justice of the Peace. 

. Defendants appealed. 

JPithers, for the defendants— I contend that, First, the 
Bench of Magistrates had no jurisdiction to entertain the 
present charge 1 secondly, that even if it had that juriadic* 
tion, the plaint is defecuve, and discloses no offence in the 
sense to be mentioned hereafter, when read with the evL 
dence. I do not controvert the facts, and so will not read 
the whole evidence. [Clarbncb, J* — It is unfortunate that 
the question has taken a criminal form, as the defendants 
might otherwise have given evidence on oath]. The judg« 
ment finds (1) that the act complained of was done in the 
exercise of judicial functions, sedente curia, and (2) 
that the act was arbitrary and ultra vires. [Reads evidence 
of witness yanklaasl The argument I found on this evi-* 
dence is that the act, whether indiscreet or not, was done in 
the execution of judicial duty, and therefore the fiench of 
IVlagistrates was incompetent to try the case. [Clarencb, 
J*— Why incompetent? Any person may charge a judge 
with assault* Maclachlan's Case (i) is an authority. He 
was better advised and brought a civil action.] 1 say they 
may have tried, bat should have acquitted. [ Clabsncb, J. 
-r-That is a question on the merits— justification, not want 
of jurisdiction.] A Court cannot review the act of another 



(i) L. R., I Ex. D., 376. 



117 

C<iuT^ ol the same degree of jurisdiction^ Voet» ad Pand, , 
ii. !• 52- 

The Oourt here called upon the respondeat on the merits. 

'Grenier, for the complainant-— The plea of not guilty shews 
the defendants did not rely on any want of jurisdiction. 
£Cla&shcb> J. — We think that the question is whether the 
f St defendant thought he was acting within his power when 
he committed the assault charged. Whether he had reason* 
able grounds for believing it, we think it unnecessary to 
consider] On the contrary* if the defendant acted beyond 
his jurisdiction upon a mistake of law, he is clearly liable, 
apon the authorities — it may be otherwise on a mistake of 
fact. The power of exclusion is no doubl necessary, and if 
iimdjide exercised will not render the judge liable. Here 
there was no reason for thinking public business was being 
obstructed. If one of your Lordships should shy an ink- 
stand at an Advocate here, it would clearly be ultra vires. 
{CliA.BZNCB^ J.— i2ej ipsa loquitur"] So here, too, Ordinance 
Mo. II of 1868, § 85, gives every proctor a right to appear 
and be heard in Oourt, and § 20 of Ordinance No. 9 of 1S59 
permits any party in the Court of Bequests to move to amend 
at any stage. The complainant was therefore acting entirely 
within the scope of his privilege. A proctor doing the work 
of Counsel is allowed the same privileges. Mackay v. Ford 
(i). See remarks of Pollock, C. B. If therefore the Com- 
missioner made an error in law and so gave the illegal 
order, he is liable* The one question is, Hcut defendant 
reasonable ground for thinking the complainant was disturbing 
the work of the Court P Now Jonklaas swears that he did 
not understand the motion of complainant to amend the 
answer to have been disallowed, and complainant therefore 
had a right to go on speaking. Remarks of Tsntbkdibn, 
0. J., in Gamelt v. Ferrand (2). " £ven inferior justices, 
and those not of record, cannot be called in question for an 
error in judgment, so long as they act within the bounds of 

their jurisdiction Corruption is quite another matter ; 

so also are neglect of duty and misconduct in it. For themt 
I trust, there is, and always will be, some due course of 
imnishment by public prosecution.*' Can it be said here 
ihe defendant acted within his jurisdiction ? The com- 
plainant also offered to sit down, when the defendant first 



(i) 29 L. J. Ex. 404. I (2) 6 B. & C, 611. 



JI8 

gave the order to tmra bim out. If there had been* a- row^- 
in Courti and the wroeg person turned out, there wCNild be 
reasonable ground for laistake^ [Clarbncb, J. — L thought 
my self > when the appeal in the civil case came before me, 
that the motion to amend was unnecessary.]; Ta ceaame s 
Where a County Court Judge issued a process which he 
had no lisht to issue, under a mistake of lawi be was held' 
liable- Houlden v« Smith (i). Here the defendant was 
fully aware of the facts, and mistake could only have been 
of law, (See also Calder y. Halket, $ Moore P. C, a8). If 
this law be accepted,! see no way of applying it to the facts* 
that will excuse the defendants. It would be dangerous to 
give to petty Magistrates the power arbitrarily to eject from 
their courts duly qpaliiedpraQtitionera acting, in the exercise 
of their lawful powers^ 

fPithers, asked by the Court to furnish any authorities^ 
he had on the question of iurisdictiony mentioned R. v». 
BofTOHt (%) and Thomas^ v. Cfdrtan,^ (3) citing Rex v. SkifUu 
ner, (4) where a coroner was not held liable on indictment 
who told a J ury » <* you have not done your duty y you have 
disobeyed my commands : you are a seditious, scandalou8» 
corrupt and perjured jury." Lord Mamspibld there said^ 
'* Neither party, witness, counsel, jury, or judge, can be put 
to answer, civilly or criminallyt for words spoken in office." 
Kemp V* Neville, (5) was the leading oase on the civil side 
of th« question. 

Cur* adV' vulU 

(7th November)^ Gbaribncb, J.— This is a crrminaf 
prosecution for assanft. The defendants are— first defen^ 
dant, a gentleman filling the judicial office of Commisstoner 
of Requests, and second defendant, an officer of PbHce who 
acted under his instructions. Complafinant is af Proctor 
practising in the Court of which first defendant is judge, and 
the act with which the complainant charges the de£endantr 
and seeks to have them eriminaHy punished, is the removal 
of the complainant from the Court by the second defendant, 
at the bidding of the first defendant, at a time when com- 
plainant was actually^ engaged before first defendant ia 

conducting a client's defence. 

. 

(1) 14 a. B., 841, I (a) 3 H. & Aid., 43a. I C3) a B^ « S., 4'^$. 
(4) Lofft 55, 56. I {5} 10 C. B., N. S., 5*3 ; 3r I- J- C, P. i58t 



119 

This bdng a criminal protecation, the only plea open fo 
tiie defendants is the general plea of '' not guilty,*' and 
tfaey are debarred from appearing as witnesses in their own 
behalf. ^It is unfortunate that this should be so, the princi" 
pal' defendant being a judge whose defence may be that he 
directed the act complained of pursuant to some judicial 
ruling of his own on matters within his jurisdiction. A 
oomplainant, however, has the right to prosecute for assault 
ettber eivilty or criminally. But if doubts arise from the 
•evidemse that the judicial officer thus made defendant to a 
"criininai charge is thereby hampered in his defence, the 
defendant shoald have the t)enefit. 

It seems that on the lath July complainant appeared in 

'the Court of Requests of which first defendant was judi^e, 

^as Proctor for the defence, in an action which then came on 

ior t rial. Complaiaant, as Proctor for the defence, applied 

to be allowed to amend in a particular manner the answer 

which some petition^drawer had drawn for his client. The 

Commissioner, however, appears to have considered the 

application, which was opposed by the other side, aa one 

which ought certainly not to be allowed : he seems to have 

thought that the new matter which complainant wbhed 

to introduce by the aid of his amendment was matter in« 

consistent with the answer as it stood : and on complainant*s 

pressing the application, the Commissioner refused to hear 

him fttrther on the point, and at length ordered his removal 

Irom the Court, which is the act complained of. 

1 he civil case in question afterwards came before me upon 
an appeal by the defendant in the case against a judgment 
in favour of the plaintiff ; and in appeal I sec aside that 
judgmentk and sent the case back for further evidence, it 
appearing to me that the pomt upon which the defendant 
by his Proctor had desired to adduce evidence, and to which 
the proposed amendment was directed, was already open 
upon the defendant's plea of the general issue. So far, 
therefore, from complainant's application to amend being 
improper on the score of inconsistency* it was in fact un« 
necessary, the defence aimed at being already open. 

To remove a Proctor from the Court while actually en« 
gaged in conduciing his client's cause was a measure of 
extreme harshness* jusiifiable only on the supposition that 
the Proctor was misconducting himself to the extent of 
obstructing or disturbing the business. It appears to be 
cuQceded that oomplainant did not behave disrespectf uUy* 



120 

otherwise tbaw bj not sitting dawfl when desired to do atn- 
Upon perusing the materials recorded in the present caser 
including the statement made by the first defendant before 
the Magistrates, I am by no means prepared to say that the 
circumstances warranted the Erst defendant in taking the 
extremely harsh measure of turning out of Court a Proctor 
actually engaged in conducting a eVient's defence. The 
complainant seems^ under a mistaken view of the effect of 
his client's plea, to have applied to acnend* The Commis« 
sioner» under an equally mistaken view* seems to have con- 
S'dered the ap|»lication improper, and to have acted hotly 
and hastily in taking the step now complained of. 

But these considerations do not dispose of the matter. 
The defence appears to be> that the Commissioner had the 
complainant turned out of Court because he considered him: 
to be obstructing or disturbing the business of the Court. 
That is how I understand the statement which the first 
defendant is recorded as havrag made to the Magistrates f 
and if this matter is obscured by reason of the Commis« 
sioner being criminally instead of civilly prosecuted, he i9 
entitled to the benefit of the doubt so arising. I think that 
a Commissioner ot Requests has clearly power to turn out 
of Court any one who obstructs or disturbs the business of 
the Court, even though such person be an Advocate or 
Proctor actually engaged in the pending case. It is also- 
within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner, as a matter of 
course* to determine whether or not any person to whom: 
his attention may be directed is so obstruct in i; or disiurb- 
ing the business as to render it expedient that such person 
be removed from the Court. And if the Commissioner 
shall have decided that point in the affirmative and acted 
accordingly, he is protected against action, civrl or criminal,, 
and the correctness of his opinion on the facts cannot be 
reviewed by ano her tribunal in any separate action founded 
on such act. Now, in the present case* it appears that the 
Commissioner, the first defendaot, considered that the beha-- 
viour of the complainant in not at once sitting down was" 
such an obstruction or disturbance of the Court business as 
rendered it expedient that complainant be removed from the 
. Court. So far as I understand what took place, I am far 
from being prepared to say that I can take the same view» 
but the Commissioner having (no doubt londjide, though 
perhaps hastily) taken that view and acted npon it, it is not, 
as I conceive, competent for another tribunal investigating 



121 

the present charge to go behind that determination of his. 
I think, therefore^ that the first defendant and the second 
defendant who acted under his orders, are entitled to be 
acquitted on this charge of assault. 

DiAS, J. — I am of the same opinion, and I concur with 
ray brother Claubnob as to ihe rule applicable to the case 
before us. That rule appears to me to be that a judicial 
officer, acting within his jurisdiction and exercising his dis*- 
cretion, is not liable to be sued either civilly or criminally 
for any injury inflicted upon another, whatever mistake he 
may have committed. This rule is recognised in all the 
cases which were cited at the Bar. Ihe facts of this case 
are these. The first defendant was sitting as the Com- 
missioner of the Court of Bequests. A case was called on, 
and the complainant, who was a Proctor entitled to appear 
and practise before the Court, appeared before the first de* 
feiidant, the Commissioner, and moved to amend his client's 
answer. The Commissioner thought that the proposed 
amendment was inconsistent with the answer already filed. 
In this opinion he might have been wrong, but what is 
mateiial for the present inquiry is, that the Commissioner, 
though he did not make an express order to that effect, gave 
the complainant to understand that his motion would be 
disallowed. After this intimation the complainant persist* 
ed in urging his motion for an amendment, and the Com* 
niissioner thought, rightly or wrongly, that the complainant 
was disturbing the proceedings of the Court. The Com* 
missioner then waved his hand, which the complainant says 
he thought was an intimation to him to sit down. Then 
followed the order by the first to the second defendant to 
remove the complainant out of Court. I agree with my 
learned brother that the first defendant's conduct in the 
matter was hasty a ad. I may add, very undignified ; but I 
am of opinion that he acted within his jurisdiction as a 
judicial officer siMing in his Court as a judge, and that it 
is not competent to any other tribunal to review his acts 
and determine whether or not he exercised a sound discre- 
tion« 

The verdict and sentence must, therefore, be set aside 
and the defendants acquitted. 

Set aside* Defendants acquitted. 



122 

20th June and nth July, 1883. 
Present— Clarence and Dias, J J. 

D. C. > V. Don Mathes 
Matara, > v. 

31,034 J K. Punchy Hamy and 3 others. 

Title to land-^Donor conveying without title, hut suhse-^ 
quently acquiring title -^f oluntary convey ance» 

S., being owner of one half ^/«s one-fifth ot a certain land, conveyed 
the whole land by way of gift to plaintiff, his son-in-law, on a5th 
January 187a. S. acquired title to the remainder soon afterwards. 
Plaintiff now alleged an ouster from possession by defendants, the widow 
and certain children of S. 

Htld, that plaintiff was entitled to judjrment for whatever S. owned 
at the date of his conveyance to plaintiff, but that, that conveyance 
being a merely voluntary one, the title subsequently acquired by S. did 
not pass to plaintiff thereunder. 

It appearing that S. was by arrangement allowed to possess the sub. 
ject matter of the gift until his death, 

HeW, that fourth defendant, who was a lessee for an unexpired term 
under S., was entitled to be absolved from the instance, plaintiff having 
left it in the power of S. to deal with the property. 

The facts sufficiently appear from the judgment of the 
Court. 

FanLangenberg, for the plaintiff appellant, referred to 
Voet, ad Pand.y 39. 5. 10. 

Seneviratne for the defendantSi respondents. 

Cur, adv» vult- 

(iithJuly). The Judgaient of the Court was now 
delivered bj 

Clarence, J — Plaintiff, a son*in«law oE one Simaa 
deceased, claims certain land by virtue of a deed of 
gift dated January 25th, 1872, and sues the widonr and 
certain children of Siman, averring that they have ousted 
him. The defendants deny the conveyance by Siman. It 
appears that at the date of the conveyance Siman had title 
only to a certain fractional share, but he appears to have 
acquired the remainder very soon afterwards. The Notary 
leaving been called to prove Siman's execution of the deed> 
the deed seems to have been admitted in evidence without 
objection. The fact appears to be, that Siman did 'execute 
the conveyance, but that he was permitted to remain in 
possession as long ashelivedf It is admitted by defendants 



123 

that before his death he and his wife executed a deed of gilt 
in favor of their children^ not including the land now in 
qaestion, by which plaintiff got no benefit. The whole 
evidence is not very clear, but the inference which I draw 
from it is, that Sicnan executed the deed by way of gift to 
plaintiff, and by arrangement was allowed to remain in 
possession till his death. There has been no time for plains 
tiff's title under his conveyance to be defeated by prescrip*' 
tioo, in any view of the nature of the occupancy of Siman 
and defendants. Under these circumstances we think that 
plaintiff is at any rate entitled to judgment for his half plus 
one-fifth> which Siman possessed at the date of his convey- 
ance to plaintiff. But the conveyance being merely a 
voluntary one, we are disposed to think that Siman*s sub^ 
sequently acquired title cannot be availed of by plaintiff* 
and that plaintiff must take the subject matter of the gift 
as it stood at the date of his conveyance. 

The 4 th defendant is a lessee, who took a lease for 10 
months from Siman, shortly before Siman's death. We 
think that he is entitled to be absolved with costs, plaintiff 
having so far as appears allowed Siman to deal with the 
property. 

Sei aside. 

Proctor for the plaintiff,. C. H B* AUendorf. 
Proctors for the defendants, Jonathan Siha ; y. B. D. 
Keuneman. 



J^th September and i^th November , 1882. 

Present— Clare NCB and Dias, J J. 

D. C. \ Yegappa Chbtty 
Kandyi > v. 

87,506. J C. LlESGHING. 

Hscal-^Ord' No, 4 of 1867, sect- .^i—Parate execution— 
" Forikwi$h** — Applicabilitjf^ where the property sold is not 
the execution deb tor* s, but is surrendered by a friend 0/ his^ 

Plaintiff, as execution creditor in a previous suit, issued his writ, but 
his debtor having no property, S., a friend of the debtor's, surrendered 
his own property in execution of the judgment. The defendant, as 
Fiscal, sold the right, title and interest of the execution debtor in that 
property. The purchaser having failed to pay part of the purchase 
amount, the defendant, 9 months afterwards, resold the property, and 



124 

13 months after the resale applied for and obtained parate execution 
against the first purchaser and his surety to recover the difference 
between the amounts realised at the two sales, upon which levy a very 
small sum only was rrcovcred. Plaintif! now broug^ht action to recover 
the difference between the amount of his writ and the amount recovered , 
which difference he had lost by the negligence of the defendant in not 
reselling and not issuing parate execution, promptly. 

Hetdt that parate execution was a proceeding instituted for the benefit 
of the execution creditor, and that, the application for parate execution 
havin(; certainly not been made *' forthwith," a required by seel. 5 1 of 
the FUcaU Ordinance, 1867, plaintiff would have been entitled 10 at 
ver Jict ; but 

Meld^ that the procedure provided by the Ordinance applied only to 
sales of the execution debtoi's interest in property, which was a 'mitted 
ly nil in this case ; and that on this grouitrl the decree of the cour t 
below dismissing plaintiff's action and ordering defendant to pay the 
costs ought to be affirmed. 

The facts of this case safBcientlj appear from the pdg. 
nieot of the Court. 

Grenier for plaintiff, appellant. 
Layard for defendant, appellant. 

Cnr. adv. milt. 

(November 14th). Clarbncb, J. — This is an action 
against a Fiscal. The facts are these : — 

Plaintiff on the 5th June 1 879 obtained a judgement (N<k 
80,393 District Court Kandy) against one Velle Pulle and 
one Vytilingam Pulle, for Rs. 701. 25, and certain interest 
and costs. Plaintiff sued out writ of execution, which wa» 
placed in the hands of defendant's Deputy for execution. 
The execution debtors did not pay or surrender any property, 
'but one Supremanien, who seeras to have been a friend of 
theirs, carae forward and offered to surrender some property 
of his. Supremanien, on the 25th June 1879, addressed 3 
letter to the Deputy Fiscal in these terms : — *' i hereby 
surrender and authorise jou to sequester and advertise for 
sale in satisfaction of the writ No. ^o,3gi District Court 
Kandy, the following property belonging to me as per title 
deeds h^ewith forwarded, namely,*' — and then followed a 
description of a piece of land at Pannola, within the juris 4 
diction of the Deputy to whom the letter was addressed. 
Vytilingam Pulle handed this letter to the Deputy Fiscal 
with a letter addressed by himself to the Deputy Fiscal, in 
which he said : — *'In satisfaction of the writ in No. 80,393 
D. C Kandy, I beg to surrender the property appearing in 
the annexed letter, which I shall thank you to sequester 



125 

and advertise for sale ** Thereupon the Fiscal on the tSth 
Oc'ober 1879 pQcported to put. up Cor sale ^* the right and 
title of the deed of conveyance dated I3^h April 1S79 in 
favour of Snpremanien Chetty of an alloiment of land No. 
4,753 of five acres and twenty^five perches in extent, situate 
at Pannola in Oyapalata/' The Conditions of Sale were in 
the usual form, and contained this paragraph t— " Purcha- 
sers must distinctly understand that only the rtgbr., title and 
interest are sold of the person or persons against whom the 
writ of ezecmion is issued, to wit Mun-a Palaoi Welle Pulle 
and Muna Wytilingam PbIIp.'* One Kandasa>ny was de> 
clared the purchaser at the price of ds. 750, and Kanda^ 
Bamy» and one Ramen Ghetty as his security^ signed the 
roemoranda printed at the foot of the Oonditions of Sale^ 
Kandasaroy made a part payment of one.fourth of the 
Ks. 75o» but failed to pay the balance, which under the 
Conditions of Sale was due in two months. On the 2^th 
July 1880 the Deputy Fiscal purported to re«seU under the 
same description and simiUr Conditions of 8ale» when 
Sapremanien himself was declared the purchaser at the 
price of Bs. 31I In August i Si Parate Eiucuiio < was 
issued against the original purchaser and his surety, when ic 
appears ihat neither the purchaser nor any property o§ his 
were found, and the only, levy made realised but Ks. 14. 

Plaintiff now com plains that the Fiscal was guihy of 
negligence in not re-selliKig before July 1880, and again in 
Dot issuing Parate Execuition before August i83i > and 
plaintiff claims as damages the difference between the 
amount for which his writ issued and the amount realised. 

Defendant in answer to p1aintiff*8 libel demurs, charging 
that the foregoing facts disclose no cause of action. 

The learned District Judge seems to have thought that 
the Fiscal having twice purpoitedto seM» having twice, as 
the learned District Judge puts it, " undertaken the res* 
ponsibility of selling,'' corrld not now shelter himself 
behind the irregularity of the whole proceeding, but not 
being satisfied upon the evidence that plaintiff is in a worse 
position than he would have been in had the Fiscal issued 
Parage £xecution promptly, dismissed plaintiff's action, 
ordering the Fiscal, however, to pay the costs. 

Plaintiff appeals. 

Section 51 of the Ordinance clearly casts upon the Fiscal 
the duty of taking steps " forthwith" after the second sale, 
to obtain Parate Execution. This is 9 proceeding which 



126 

the Fiscal is to take for the benefit of the execation creditor. 
Ill the present instance he did not apply for Parate £xectii* 
tiun uniil more than a year after the re-s.4le. I certainly 
think that that was not applying '' fortbwith'*$ and tf this 
were all, plaintiff* in my opinion* would be entitled to the 
verdic. But I do not see how the provisions of the Ordi* 
uance with regard to Parate £xecuti<>n can be applied to 
the proceedings which have been described. The wkole 
proctedingH were utterly irregular. The procedure provided 
by the Ordinance is provided with reference to the sales of 
the execution debtor's interest in property. Here the execu* 
tioti debtor had no interest whatever m the property. If 
Supremanien had conveyed the land to the execution debtor 
for the purpose of its betn^ levied 00, there would hard 
been someihiug to selU The whole proceeding of purport- 
ing to sell the ^' right and title of such a conveyance in 
favor of Supremanien*' under Coadfttons of Sale which 
stipulated that the sale passed only the interest of the 
execation debtor, is merely an meaning. It is true that 
this absurd act was the act of the Deputv Fiscal but it ts 
also true that in no wa-y could the Fiscal as the matter 
stood levy on Su^remanien*s land under his writ agaiiist the 
execution debtor. I do noC think that the provisions of the 
Ordinance as to Parate Exccutiou can be applied to such a 
proctediug ^ and, on this ground, I am prepared to affirm 
the judgment* Defendant has appealed against the judgment 
in so far as it decrees him to pay costs f and he at any rate 

deserved no costs. 

Affifmed* 

Proctor for plaintiff^ H. Goonetilleke^ 
Proctor for defendant, W. Pompeus, 



20ih Octsber and %^ih November, 1882, 

Present— Db Wet, A. C. J., and DiASt J* 

/« re Harry Cbbasy, an Advocate of the Supreme Court. 

Grenier, on behalf of the applicant H Creasy, moved that 
he be admitted a Proctor of the Supreme Court wi«.h or 
without an examination. The applicant was an Advocate, 
who in June 1881 had had his name removed from the 
Roll, and had apprenticed himself to a proctor with the view 



127 

of becoming a proctor. The object of the present apph'ca- 
tion was to obtain a dispensation of the remainder of appli« 
cant*8 term of three years* The remaining facts appear from 
the or<ler of the Court. 

Cur> adv vult. 

{24th November). Dias, J. — In November, 1873, Mr. 
Creasy was admitted and enrolled an Advocate of this Court. 
He practised as an Advocate till May, 18^1, and daring 
that period he acted for two years as a Deputy to the 
Queen's Advocate, In June, ib8r, his name was taken off 
the Roll of Advocates on his own application, and on the 
30th of that month he bound himself as an apprentice to 
Mr. yuliusy a Proctor of this Court, and has served up to 
this day as such apprentice. He now applies to us, under 
the circumstaaces set out in his application and affidavit, to 
be admitted a Proctor of this Court, subject to any exami. 
nation which we may think necessary. 

This matter was argued last Friday by Mr Advocate 
Grenier on behalf of Mr. Creasy^ and I liad some doubts 
as to the powers of the Supreme Cour( to grant to Mr, 
Creasy a dispensation of the remainder of his term of 
service. 

The Rules and Orders which now regulate the admission 
of Proctors are those of December, 184c. (See Kules and 
Orders, pp. 12 5, 127.) The 3rd clause of these Rules and 
Orders relates to the admission of Proctors of the Supreme 
Court, and the 4th clause to tie admission of Proctors of 
the District Court. Whether Mr. Creasy was bound to Mr. 
Julius under the 3rd or 4th clause does not appear. These 
Kules and Orders do not give the Judges of this Court any 
discretion ; but according to the two cases cited by Mr. 
G enter t the Judges seem to have exercised such discretion, 
lirst in the case, of Mr G. VanderwalL This gentleman 
was apprenticed to Mr. Smithy a Proctor of this Court, 
under a deed of agreement of ipth Decamber, 1857 for a 
term of 3 years under the 4th clause of the Kules and 
Orders of 1841. Mr Vanderwall made an application to 
this Court in or about June, 1859, that is, a ter he had 
served only 18 months of his apprenticeship, to be admitted 
a Proctor of the District Court of Kandy. On the 27th of 
June, i8j9, the Judges made an order for bis examination. 
The examiners made a favorable report on the 7th July, 
1859, when Mr VawhrwiU was admitted a Proctor of the 



128 

District Court of Kandy. There is no especial order of the 
Judfi;es to be found in the Minutes, but they seem to have 
assumed that they had the power to dispense with 18 
months of the term of Mr, VanderwalVs apprenticeship. 
All the papers connected with Mr, PanderwaWs application 
were placed before us, and they fully bear out the facts above 
stated. 

The other case referred to by Mr. Grenier is that of Mr. 
y. O' Oorloffl All the papers connected with, this gentle- 
Irian's case are not before ns; but there is a Minute of an 
Order of the 8ch of April 1857, ordering the examination of 
Mr. Oorlojff- w'nh a view to his being admitted a Proctor of 
the District Court of Ratnapura. and there is another 
Minute of 26th July i8j7, admitting him to practise as a 
Proctor of the District Court; of Ratnapura We were, 
however, informed by Mr. Grenier that in Mr. Oorloff^s 
case also the Supreme Court exercised a discretion as in the 
case of Mr. FanderwalL 

No doubt the learned Judges who had to deal with the 
cases above referred to thought, and I think correctly 
thought, that, un<ler the Chsirter of 183^, clause 17, which 
gives ihem large powers with regard to the admission of 
Advocates and Proctor^, they had a discretion outside the 
Rules and Orders of 18 f I. We then come to the Ordi- 
nance II of i86^ The 1 3th clause of that Ordinance is 
as neatly as possible a re-enactment of the 17th clause of 
the Charter. It is noteworthy that, at the date of this 
Ordinance, the Kules and Orders of 1841 were, as they now 
are, in force, and if the authority given to the Supreme 
Court was intended to be exercised subject to the Rules and 
Orders of 1841, the i8ch clause of the Ordinance of i863 
wa^ unnecessary. This leaves no doubt in our minds that 
the 1 8th clause was intended to apply to cases out of the 
Rules and Orders of 184.1. No case of this kind has ariseci 
since the Ordinance of 18 38, and the two cases referred to 
by Mr, Grenier wtsre c&ses coveed by the 17th clause of 
the Charter of 1833, and as that Charter was repealed by 
the Ordinance of ib68lhe framers of that Ordinance doubc** 
less thought it proper to re-enact the provisions of the 17th 
clause of the Charter. Under these circuqn stances it appears 
to me that this Court has a discretion to admit Advocates 
and Proctors, irrespective of the Rules and Orders of 1841, 
but this is a discretion which must be very carefully exer- 
cibcd. 



129 

The next consideration i«, whether Mr. Creasy has made 
out such a case as will entitle him to call upon us to exercise 
this discretion in his favor. Mr, Creasy has been acting as 
an Advocate for nearly 8 years, and during that time he 
occasionally filled the post of a Deputy to the Queen's Advo- 
cate. Mr. Greasy more than once appeared before me as 
Deputy Queen's Advocate on circuit as well as in the Appeal 
Court, and on those occasions he acquitted himself very 
creditably, and if I have a discretion in the matter, I should 
certainly dispense with any examination 5 but I think the 
18th clause of the Ordinance of 1868 gives me no discretion. 
I think Mr. Greasy" s application may be allowed, subject to 
an examination under the 7th clause of the Rules and 
Orders of 1 84 1 . 

De Wet, A. C J.— I agree. 



11th and list December, 1882, 

Present — Clarence, J. 

D C. Cr. 1 The QujftEN S^JiiCc Lq A 

Galle, \ v. W^ 

11,075. J Arnolis Perera. Abbtbwarde.'^e. 

Prosecution, commencement of-^Timber Ordinanccy No. 6 of 
18^8 — Limitation of prosecution -^Sentence. i6 S^*^ 

The defendant was on 7th November 1879 charged before a Justice 
of the Peace with a breach of the Timber OrdinancCf 1878 comniitted 
on 16th January 1879. After evidence taken, the case was on 5th 
April 1880 laid over sifie die. Summons was re-issued on defendant in 
June 1882, and after further proceedings defendant was on 21st Sep- 
tember committed for trial, and was arraigned and tried on 2nd Novem- 
ber 1882. He was found guilty and fined Rs. 100. 

Heldf that the prosecution did not commence upon the presentment 
of the indictment at the trial, but must be regarded as having been on 
foot at the date of the committal tor trial. 

As the charge on which the defendant had been committed and been 
tried was not dehors the charge contained in the original information. 

Held, that the prosecution commenced when the defendant aopeared 
to the summons, and that therefore it had been begun within the 
period limited by section 16 of the Timber Ordinance, 1878. 

It appearing that the defendant had committed the offence in the 
bond^fide belief of ownership, and that he had been cast in damages in 
a civil suit for the land concerned, 

Held, that the fine of Rs. i«o was excessive, and ought to have been 
merely nominal, 



130 

This was a criminal prosecution by indictment by tbe 
Queen's Advocate before tbe District Court of Galle for a 
breach of the Timber Ordinance No. 6 of 1878, in felhng 
and removing certain timber from a Crown land without a 
licence. The offence was laid on the i6ih January 1879. 
The affidavit on which J. P. proceedings were begun was 
sworn on 7th November 1879 by IV. 8. Fraser, and his 
deposition was taken on a 3rd December 1879 in the pre- 
sence of the prisoner, who had previously appeared on 
summons and been held to bail. Various adjournments 
subsequently took place, some of them on account of the 
pendency of a District Court civil case in which the title 
to the land here in <juestion was to be tried, and on 5th 
April 1880 the case was laid over sine die. Summons was 
re^issned on the accused on lath June 1882, and after 
further proceedings the prisoner was on 21st September 
1 88a committed for trial before the District Court of Ma- 
tara, charged with the breach of clause 8 of Ord.,6 of 1878- 
The Supreme Court on 26th September i88a on apph'catioa 
by the prisoner transferred the trial of the case to the Dis. 
trict Court of Galle, where the trial took place on 2nd 
November i882. The prisoner was convicted by the 
District Judge of Galle (Boosmalecocq) and sentenced to pay 
a fine of Rs. 100. 

The defendant appealed. 

Grenier, for the defendant, appellant — The prosecution is 
clearly barred by ( 16 of the Ordinance, not having been 
commenced within two years of the commission of the 
offence. '' Prosecution** must be taken to mean a proceeds 
ing before a Court having power finally to convict or acquit 
the prisoner, and not a mere preliminary investigation 
by a Justice of the Peace. Ordinance No. 11 of 1868, by 
which our system of Justices is regulated, clearly draws the 
distinction between the two. Section 140, which defines 
the Justice's powers, gives no power of conviction or acquits 
tal. Section 113, which gives the Queen's Advocate the 
power to intervene and take up any " prosecution" at any 
stage, expressly mentions the District and Police Courts. 
I rely strongly on § 202, which empowers the Queen's Ad- 
vocate, in case he " elects to prosecute'* before a higher 
Court a person already under committal, to require the 
Justice to make a fresh committal ifbr the purpose. [Gla.^ 



131 

BBNCB. J.— The Timber Ordinance seems to employ the 
term " prosecouoQ" in its colloquial meaning of taking 
legal proceedings.] But we most take the true legal signi- 
cation, in construing an Ordinance, which is, to pursue to a 
conviction or acquiital. The Administration of justice Or* 
dinance clearly regards a Justice of the Peace investigation 
as preparatory 10 a *' prosecution." I contend that the 
present prosecation was commenced with the tender of the 
indictment in the District Court on 2nd November 1882. 

On the merits :-^the defendant was charged with unlaw.* 
fully possessing certain timber felled from a Crown land, in 
a case reported 5 &. C. C, 6^ The Sirpreme Court ]udg« 
meot iQ that case menttons the fact of the Crown having 
recovered judgment in ejectment against the defendant for 
the land in question y and defendant had to pay damages in 
the ejectment suit. The present fine of Rs. leo is there- 
fore excessive* If the prosecution had been commenced io 
time, the conviction seems right on the merits. 

Nell, Acting D. Q. A.,, for the Crown, contra — [He wa» 
called upon only on the question of excessive sentence] -* 
The object of the criminal prosecution is to check theft of 
Government timber, which seems to have been cat down 
on an extensive scale here* The damages recovered were 
for the actual money loss sustained by the Crown, and 
afEord no reason for mitigation ef sentence. It ts similar to 
the two •fold action open to a private party damaged by 
•larceny. 

Cur. adv. vwt» 

(21st December).— Clarence, J — Two points have been 
argued by Appellant upon this appeal. The first point made 
h, that the conviction connot stand by reason of the pro- 
secution not having been commenced within two years from 
the time of the commission of the offence. 

The indictment, preferred tn November last, charges the 
offence as committed in January 18 79^ and Mr. Grenier 
contended that the prosecution is to be deemed as having 
commenced when the indictment was preferred. The fact 
is that an information charging defendant generally with a 
breach of the 8th section nf the Timber Ordinance by felling 
timber on the land in question, was sworn by Mr. Fraser, 
forester, before Mr. Edge, a Justice of the Peace, on the 
7th November 1879* ^^ ^^ details of this information, 



132 

I may hiV3 to speak presently. Mr. Edge entertained the 
information and directed summons to issue to the defen- 
dant. Summons was issued, and the defendant appeared 
on the 8th December. Evidence was adduced on the 23.rd 
December. Subsequently, on the application of the defen- 
dant, the case was adjourned sine die, pending the decisioo 
of a civil action then in progress between himself and the 
Crown, in which the right of the Crown to the land in 
question was directly suh judice* The charge under the 
Timber Ordinance was then resumed. Mr. Edge in the 
meantime died, another Justice of the Peace took further 
evidence, and in September last defendant was committed 
for trial before the District Court. Now, under our present 
criminal procedure, the course of action adopted when it is 
sought to subject an offender to criminal trial before the 
District Court or Supreme Court is this : * First the com« 
plainant swears his information before a Justice of the 
Peace ; then the Justice of the Peace entertains the charge 
and issues process, Summons or Warrant ; investigates the 
charge, when the defendant appears before him ^ and finally 
commits for trial ; then, when the trial-day arrives, an 
indictment is presented, on which the defendant is arraign^ 
ed. This is the course of procedure in a case which actual*- 
]y comes to trial. It was decided in Moralagodalianege 
Fer'u case (i) that the Queen*s Advocate cannot arraign 
and indict a defendant who has not been committed for 
trial. f 

Such being the course of procedure in criminal cases, 
when we find the Legislature limiting, as in the Timber Or- 
dinance, the right to proceed on a criminal charge by 
requiring that the '* prosecution" shall be ** instituted" or 
** commenced" within a given time, it is reasonable to 
suppose that by "prosecution" the Legislature means not 
the presentation of the indictment, but the proceedings 
before the Justice of the Peace. I regard the indictment as 
a step in the prosecution. The prosecution in my opinion 
clearly commenced with the proceedings before the Justice 
of the Peace. 

I use the term '« proceedings" advisedly, because there 
may be a question as to what stage of those proceedings 
should be deemed the commencement of the prosecution, 
for the purposes of an enactment in limitation of action; 

(i) 3 S.C.C, i6i. 



133 

bat I think it clear that for such purpose the prosecation 
does not cotniuence with the indictment. So far as we can 
derive any asbisiaocehoai the English decisions, the current 
of aathoriiy is decidedly in favor of referring the commence'* 
ment of the prosecuion to the proceedings before the Jus* 
tice. In R. v. fPillace, according to the account of that 
casegiveti in. £ast, P. C. (vol, i. p 186) the charge was 
under the statute 8 and 9 Will. III. c 26 (since repealed)^ 
the 9th section of which barred the prosecution unless the 
prosecution be commenced within three months frona the 
date of the offence. The defendant was arrested on May 
5th and taken before a Justice, who on 8th May committed 
him for trial on a charge of suspicion of high treaso'i in 
counterfeiting the carrent coin of the realm. The Assizes 
n4)t coming on till August, more than the three months 
elapsed between the date of the offence and the perferring 
of the indictment. But it was unanimously held by* the 
Judges, according to the report in East, that "the infor 
mation and proceedings before the Magfstrate" commence 
the prosecution for the purposes of the Act. There are 
various cases reported under the Night Poaching Jet, g 
Geo. IV. c. 69 sect. 4,, the words of liini'a ion in which 
are similar ta those in our Timber Ordinance. I do not 
think it necessary to refer to those cases at length. The 
carrent of decisions seems clearly to indicate what I think 
is but reasonable, that when a defendant is charged before 
a Justice who commits him for trial on that charge, it is not 
the indictment afterwards preferred, but the proceedings 
before the Justice that are to be regarded as commencing 
the prosecution. 

Eeference was made on appellant's part to the riath, 
113th, 1 14th, 195th and 202nd sections of the Administra^ 
timqf Justice Ordinance, I do not think any of those 
sections have any bearing on the matter. They simply 
refer to the control which is given to the Queen's Advocate 
over proceedings in criminal cases. The Queen's Advocate 
for instance is spoken of as **^ electing to prosecute" and so 
forth. He takes up the prosecution already commenced. 

Then, if it is not the indictment, but some earlier stage 
in the proceedings, that commences the prosecution for the 
purposes of this enactment, wh- n precisely does the prose- 
cution commence ? In some of the English cases under the 
Night' Poaching Act the warrant of commitment seems to 
have been selected as ascer'.ainin^ a date from which the 



134. 

prosecution was to be considered as having been on foot* 
For ins ance in R. v, Austin (i) whe»e the offence was 
committed in January 1844, the defendant was committed 
for trial in December 1844, and the indictment was not 
preferred until more than twelve months from the date of 
the oflFence, but less than twelve months from the date of 
the committal, Pollock» C B., is reported to have held the 
conimittal as furnishing a date for the commencement of 
the prosecution, and so the prosecution was held to have 
been commenced in time. If we are to consider the prose*- 
cution as having^ commenced with the committal in the 
present case, it was not commenced in time, for the defen- 
dant was not committed for trial until September last, over 
three years after the commisson of the offence. The Ensflish 
cases are collected in Russ>*1t &n Crimea and in Archbold, 
After examining: those cases I do not regard them as laying 
down any role that the committal furnishes the earliest date. 
I rather regard the Judges as having decided that at any 
rate when the committal took place within the prescribed 
period the prosecution was then on foot. We must bear 
in mind that, according to the English procedure, the writ« 
ten warrant of commitment for trial fiughi be the first doctt^ 
ment in which the accusation was embodied, and conse<- 
quently the earliest available documentary evidence. It 
might for instance be that the offender was arrested »« 
flagrante delictOy and carried before Justices who proceeded 
to receive the testimony of the captors, and thereupon 
committed the prisoner for trial. /?. v. HulU (a) is perhaps 
an authority to the effect that the mere issuing of process 
against the defendant is not to be regarded as commencing 
the prosecution. It is not, however^ necessary on this 
appeal to consider how that may be, because in the present 
case the defendant appeared and evidence was taken, long 
before the expiry of the two years. And in my opinion, 
where under our procedure an raformation is sworn, the 
person charged appears to the information, and an investi- 
gation is made by the Justice of the Peaqe, culminating in 
a committal on some chai;ge identical with, or fairly com- 
prised in the original charge, it is at any rate reasonable to 
consider the prosecution as on foo% as having commenced, 
from the time when the accused person appeared before the 
Justice of the Peace to answer the original charge. If the 

(1) I C. &K,6ji. I (2) 2 F. & F., 16. 



135 

technical charge on which the defendant is committed for 
trial is one which cannot be said to be included in the 
original information, then it may very well be that the 
prosecution on the charge set out in the committal cannot 

be dated earlier than the committal. 

In the case before me I find that the original information 
charged the appellant with unlawfully and without license 
fellifig trees growing in the crown forest land in question. 
It is true that the information did not specify the kinds of 
trees felled, so as to afford any means of knowledge 
whether the trees felled were of the kinds scheduled in the 
Ordinance. Moreover, the information did not specify the 
date of the felling. But no objection whatever was made 
on defendant's part upon either of those grounds. The 
evidence adduced supplied those particulars, and after that 
defendant, claiming that the land was his own land, obtained 
the adjournment of the proceedings against him until the 
question of title should have been decided in the civil suit. 
Under these circumstances', as the charge on which the 
defendant was committed, and the charge on which the 
defendant has been indicted are not dehors the accusation 
embodied in the original information, I hold that the prose" 
cution in which defendant has been convicted was com- 
menced when he appeared to the Summons, and conse- 
quently that the prosecution is one commenced in time. 

The ground on which the conviction has been impeached 
thus* in my opinion, fails. 

The other pomt urged concerns the sentence only. There 
is reason to believe that when the defendant cleared this 
land he believed it to be his own. He purchased in 1878 
from one Lewis, and the District Court in the civil suit 
upheld Lewis' claim of title. Afterwards the Supreme 
Court in appeal adjudged that the land was Crown land. 
Moreover, it appears that in the civil action the Crown 
recovered damages from the defendant. Under these cir- 
cumstances I think that the fine imposed on defendant 
ought not to be more than a nominal one. I reduce the 
fiae to Ks. 10. 

Affirmed' 



136 

2'jth nthd zSth Novetnbery 1882 and 26tk fanuaryy 1883. 

Present— Db Wbt, A. C> J., Clabbncb and DiaS| JJ. 

Crown Case Reserved* 

and Session, > The Qubbn 
Kandy, S v. 

No. 47. J BuYB Appu. 



Evidence — Oath or affirmation^ Child of tender years f 
admissibility of the evidence of, after simple warning to speak 
the truth — Evidence improperly admitted^ 

Upon a charge of rape, the prosecutrix M., a child of between 9 and 
10 years of age, gave her evidence witliout being swora or affirmed, 
but after having been simply warned to speak the truth, and having 
promised so to do. The prisoner having been convicted, 

Htld^ upon a case reserved, that a child, like every other witness, 
must be sworn or affirmed before its evidence can be received, aad that 
therefore M.'s evidence had been improperly received. 

Held also {per C larbncb and Dias, JJ ,\dvsentiente Db Wbt, A.CJ.) 
that, this evidence having gone to the jur}, the conviction could not be 
sustained, although there might be other evidence in the case sufficient 
to support a verdict. 

This was a case reserved by Db Wet, A.« C. J., from the 
August Criminal Session of the Supreme Court at Kandy 
for 1882. The prisoner was tried on a charge of Rape 
committed upon a girl named Malluthami* Malluthami, 
a girl of about ten yeais of age, was called as a witness, and 
not appearing to the presiding judge to understand the 
obligation of an oath, was allowed to give her evidence after 
being warned to speak the truth. The prisoner having 
been convicted, on Eaton who appeared for the prisoner 
moving in arresi of judgment, the following Case was 
reserved : 

Malluthami, first witness. It appearing to the Court that this wit« 
ness did not understand the nature of an oath, she was duly cautioned 
to speak the tiuth, and also was told the consequences of not doing 
so, and, promising to speak the truth, deposed as follows :-— 
* * * * 

The question to determine is whether her evidence is admissible ; 
and even supposing that the Court would rule that I was «^rong in 
admitting the evidence, whether there was not sufficient evidence 
aliunde to justify the jury in bringing in a verdict of guilty. 

The effect of the evidence called at the trial was as foL 
lows: 
There were no eyewitnesses of the crime. Malluthami 



137 

herself depcrsed that she had been called into his house by 
the defendant and then ravished. The other evidence calU 
ed proved that Malluthami had blood on her clothes and 
that blood had been foaod in defendant's house at a spot 
pointed out by Malluthami- The medical evidence was to 
the effect that the girl had been recently violated, but that 
no corresponding indications were found on the prisoner's 
person ; and that a severe fall might have caused the injuries 
to Malluthmmu 

Seneviratne (assigned by the Court to represent the pri« 
soner)— 

The jiffir /nations Ordinance, No. 3 of 1842, makes no 
provisioo for the reception of the unsworn testimony of 
children. The Ordinance No. 3 of 1846 introduces the 
English Law of evidence for the time being into this Island. 
The Bofflish rule is, In yudicio nan creditur nisi juratis* 
Best» Evidence, § 154, 5th £dr p 220. Even an infant is 
not admitted to give evidence except upon oath. R. v. 
Powell (i). So all the Judges held in Brasier's Case {2) 
that the evidence of a girl even under 7 years of age was 
adoQissible, but only on oath, if she was found on strict 
examination to comprehend the dane^er and impiety of false- 
hood. [Thb Chibp Justicb — I think the affirmation in 
the Ordinance is in lieu of an oath, and can only be ad« 
ministered where an oath would be admissible if the wit« 
Be<is had no conscientious objection to take one* I thought 
it not right to prostitute an oath, as understood by the 
Ordinance, by administering it to a girl who understood 
nothing of its obligation, and therefore warned her to tell 
exactly what had happened. She gave her evidence, and 
the Jury convicted the prisoner, upon which Eaton, who 
appeared for the defence, moved in arrest of Judgment. ] 
The English Act, 32 and 33 Vict, c 63, s. 4, provides that 
if a witness " shall be objected to as incompetent to take 
an oath, such person shall, if the presiding judge is satisfied 
that the taking of an oath would have no binding efiect on 
^ his conscience, make the following promise and declaration : 
I solemnly promise and declare that the eui'fence given by me 
to the Court shall be the truths tlu whole truth, and nothing 
ht the truth,'* Taylor, Evidence, § i38i. [Thb Chibf 



(0 I Leach) Cr. Ca., no. — (a) 1 Leach, Cr. Ca., 199, 



138 

Justice— The leading case on the poiDt is 22. v. Bolmes 
(i). Sea also Best, Evidence, §§ iji. ij5]* In R. y. 
Holmes the witness was objected to as incompetent on 
account of youth, but Wiohtman, J., after questioning her 
on the voir dire, admitted her evidence $ trom which we 
must presume that she was sworn in due course. 

On the second point reserved,— a Court of Review cannot 
tell what evidence was believed and what rejected by the 
J ury. To raise this question, a special verdict ought to 
have been taken. If the Court for Crown Cases Reserved 
is of opinion that any evidence was improperly admitted or 
rejected, it must set aside the convictiou. Stephen, Digest 
of the Ltaw of Evidence, Article 143. 

Nell, D, Q'A , for the Crown, contra^The argument for 
the prisoner proceeds upon the assumption that by our lavir 
an oath is in all cases necessary. Now, though there are 
several Ordinances on the subject, there has all along been 
running the Common Law, which may have admitted of 
evidence without oath or affirmation. [ Clare nob, J.<— > 
But Ordinance 3 of 1842 says that '' every such person shall 
make a solemn affirmation."] The Imperial Act 32 and 
S3 Vict. c. 68, which provides a specific form of affirmation 
in lieu of oath^ was passed subsequent to our Affirmations 
Ordinance, 3 of 1842, and the form prescribed differs from 
that given in the Ordinance. This Act is in force in Ceylon 
by virtue of Ordinance 3 of 1846, and it is a question 
whether a promise in the words of the Act may not render 
the witness's evidence admissible^ though given without the 
form of affirmation, 

On the second point,«-it was held that, although upon 
a case reserved it appeared that evidence had been impro. 
perly admitted* the Judges would not set aside the convic^ 
tion if they were of opinion (hat there was other evidence 
to support the indictment. /?. v. Ball (2). See the cor. 
rection of the note to this case» in page iv of the preface to 
Denison's Crown Cases. See also R. v. Oldroyd (3). P. 0, 
Badulla 3282 (4). 

Seneviratne, called upon by the Court on the point cover« 
ed by Tinkler's Case (referred to in the note to R. ▼. Ball) 

(1) 2 F. & F., 788. 1 (3) R. & R., 89, 

(2) R. & R., 133. I (4) I Loien^ 17. 



139 

cited de Rutzen y. Farr, (i) arguing a fortiori in a criminal 
case. 

Cur. adv, vult* 

(26th Jannary, 1883). Db Wet, A. C. J — The ques- 
tions which have, upon motion tnader been reserved for the 
opinion of the Collective Court are :— - 

Whether the evidence of a female child of between 9 and 
10 years of age can be received without either the oath or 
affirmation having been administered. 

In this case, before the child was called upon to affirm> 
considering her age and condition, I questioned her as to 
her knowledge of the binding nature of an oath or affirm^ 
ation, and being thoroughly convinced of her unfitness 
either to take an oath or affirmation^ I cautioned her to 
speak the truth and to tell the Court everything that had 
occurred, having reference to the alleged rape on her person. 
She replied that she would speak the truths upon which 
her evidence was taken. 

1 here is no statute law, as far as I can see, expressly 
regulating the admission or rejection of the evidence of a 
child, where no oath or affirmation has been administered, 
either on account of immature years or of not possessing a 
sufficient knowledge of the nature and consequence of an 
oath or affirmation.* 

The only guides we have are the dicta and rulings of 
Judges in cases which have come before them. Some of 
these dicta and rulings are to be found reported in Taylor's 
and Best's Law of Evidence, while others are not found 
reported in either of those text-books. . 

One of the greatest of England's Judges^ Lord Hale, P* 
C, vol. I, p. 634, says :— "That if any infant appear unfit 
to be sworn, the Court ought to hear her information with- 
out oath, but he admits that such evidence is not of itself 
sufficient testimony to convict, because it is not upon oath.'* 

Since then there has been a departure from the dictum 
laid down by that eminent Judge. For in R. v. Powell, 
reported in Leach's Cases in Crown Law, p 100, it was held 
by Mr. Justice Qould, at the Assiza for York in the year 
1775, '^ ^ c^^ o^ I'^P^' ^^^^ 3° infant under the age of 7 

(i) 4 A.& E., 53. 

* A Cape Act, shown by the Chief Justice to Coansel, contains a 
provision enabling a judge to receive a child's evidence, without oath, 
afta adminibtering a simple, wacatog tv speak the truth. 



liO 

years cannot, under any circara stances, be adraittcd to giv^r 

evidence except upon oath. In the case of /?. v. Brasier 

charged "with an assault with intent to commit a rape on 

the body of Mary Harris, an infant under 7 years of age, 

it was held that an infant witness under 7 years of age, if 

apprised of the nature of an oath, must be sworn, bpcauso 

no testimony is legal except upon oath. The child was not 

sworn or produced as a witness at the trial. '*'The case 

against the prisoner was proved by the mother of the child, 

and by another woman who lodged with her, to whom the- 

child immediately on her coming home told all the eircum^- 

stances of the injury which had been done to her ^ and 

there was no fact or circumstance to confirm the tnforma* 

tion which the child had given, except that the prisoner 

lodged at the very place where she had described,, and that 

she had received some hurt and that she, on seeing him the 

next day, declared that he was the man. The prisoner was 

convicted. 1 he judgment was respited on a doubt created" 

by a marginal note to a case in Dyer*s Reports, and it was 

submitted to twelve Judges for their consideration* The 

Judges* assembled at Sergeants* Inn Hall on 29th April^ 

1779, vcre unanimously of opinion that no testimony 

whatever can be legally received except upon oath ; and 

that an infant, though under the age of 7 years,, may be 

sworn in a criminal prosecution, provided such infant ap«. 

pears, on strict examination by the Court,, to possess a 

su£Scient knowledge of an oath or affirmation -, for there is 

no precise or fixed rule as to the time within which infants 

are excluded from giving evidence ; but their admissibility 

depends upon the sense and reason they entertain of the 

danger and impiety of falsehood, which is to be collected 

from their answers to questions propounded to them by the 

Court } but if they are found incompetent to take an oath, 

the testimony cannot be received.*' 

The ruling of these twelve Judges has since been followed 
m all cases where the testimony of a child is concerned. I 
am therefore of opinion that tbs evidence of the child in the 
present case should not have been takea in consequence of 
her not having taken the oath or afiirmation. 

With reference to the second point reserved for the con- 
sideration of the Court, no authorities convincing to my 
mind have been cited by the learned Counsel who appeared 
on behalf of the prisoner. On the authority , however, of 



141 

the case of R, v. Tinkler (i), cited by the learned Deputy 
Queen's Advocate who appeared od behalf of the Crown >. 
2 am of opinion that the Coart has a right to consider the 
other evidence in the case^ and determine whether there wa& 
aaffident evidencer independent of the child's testimony, to- 
justify the jary in returning their yerdict of guilty against 
ibe prisoner. 

Rejecting the child's testimony altogether, I consider that 
there was sofficieat evidence to justify the Jury in finding 
a verdict of guilty against the accused »^ 

Glarbncb, J. — The primary rule of law, both here and 
m £ngland, is that no witness is admissible to testify save 
OB oath. Our Legislature, however, has permitted the sob« 
stitutioQ of an affirmation in statutory form in place of the 
oath- The law thus is that every witness rouse be swori> 
or affirmed* in order to render his or her evidence admissi- 
ble. And in my opinion there is no exception to this 
requirement in the case of a child of tender years. It 
is not necessary to enter upon any consideration as to what 
are the requisites in order that a Sinhalese child may be a 
proper subject for affirmation as a witness, because in the 
ease before us the child was neither sworn nor affirmed. 
Since the unaninous decision of the Judges in Braner's: 
Case (2), it has beea settled law that a child, like every 
other witness, must testify on oath ^ and as the Legislature 
BOW permits affirmation to be substituted in certain cases 
for the oath, I am of opinion that the testimony of a child 
18 admissible only if the child has been sworn or affirmed. 
Conseqaently^the child in the present case not having been 
either sworn or affirmed, I think that her testimony was 
inadmissible. 

Without the testimony of the child I do not think that 
the conviction ought to be sustained. But apart from that, 
no sentence, in my opinion, ought to pass upon the con« 
miction. In thiFr as in other matters not acurilly detailed 
in our Administration of justice Ordinance, concerning 
Trial by Jury, we ough% in my opinion, to administer Trial 
by Jury upon the principles by which Trial by Jury is 
governed in England, the country whence we derive it. 
And whatever uncertainty there may have been in past 

times, when procedure with regard to matters of evidence was 

• 

(i) Reported in a note to R. v. Bally R. % R., 132. 
(2) I Leach, Cr. Ca., 199. 



142 

less settled than now, as to the course to be pursued when 
ma erial has been improperly admitted as evidence, I uo. 
derstand the rule now acted upon ta be that stated by Mr. 
Jus ice Stephen in the passage cited by Mr* Seneviratne, 
viz : — *' If in a criminal case evidence is improperly rejected 
or admitted* there is no remedy,, unless the prisoner is con« 
victed, and unless the judge in his discretion states a case 
for the Court for Crown Cases Reserved : but if that Court 
is of opinion that any eyidence was improperly admitted or 
rejected, it roust set aside the conviction/* 

I think« therefore, that the conviction in this ease ought 
to be set aside^ and the prisoner discharged. 

DiAS, j .-> On the first point, whether the girl could have 
been examined without oath or af&rmation, I agree with the 
rest of the Court, but on the second point, I take the same 
view as my brother Clarbncb, and for the following 
reasons. Trial of Criminal cases by a judge and jury was 
imported into this country from England, and since its 
introduction we have always foU owed the course pursued 
in English Criminal Courts in such cases ; and one of the 
fundamental rules of the system is, that the jurors are the 
sole judges of the facts, from whose judgment there is no 
appeal. On the other hand, all questions of law and prac* 
tice which may arise in the course of the trial are to be 
decided by the presiding Judge, whose decision thereon is 
conclusively binding on the jury. But in certain cases 
power is given to the presiding Judge to reserve for the 
consideration of the Collective Court any matter of law or 
practice about which he may entertain doubts. In this 
case the jury found ihe prisoner guilty, and I do not think 
we are in a position to know what their verdict would har^ 
been if the girl's evidence was withdrawn from considera^ 
tion, and if we exclude the girrs evidence and take upoi» 
ourselves to decide the question of fact upon the remaining 
evidence, we shall, I think,, be taking upon ourselves the 
function of the jury. 

For these reasons I agree with my brother Clarbncb 
that the conviction should be quashed and the accused dis- 
charged. 

ConvicHon set aside. 



143 

2jih November, i88a. 

Present— Db Wet, A* C. J., Clarbncb and Dias, JJ. 

Crown Case Reserved. 

and Sessions The Qubbn 
Badalla, > v. 

Ko. I* J Kathiriachchige Hbndrick and another. 



Coin Ordinance^ No. 5 0/1857. >secls> 12 and 13— C7o«- 
viciion under both sections ^-Sentence* 

The first count of an indictment charged the prisoner, in the words 
of section I a of the Coin Ordinance, 1857* ^^'^ uttering 6 counterfeit 
coins. The second count charged him, also in the words of that 
section, with uttering 6 counterfeit coins while having 28 other such 
coins in his possession. The third count, in the words of section 13, 
charged a possession of a8 such counterfeit coins with intent to utter. 
The jury having convicted the prboner on all three counts, and the Court 
having sentenced him to imprisonment at hard labor for two years as 
for the conviction under the second count : 

Heldt upon a case reserved, that the offences charged by the first and 
third counts were included in that charged by the second count, and 
that no further sentence should pass as for the conviction upon the first 
and third counts. 

This was a Case Reserved by Db Wet, A, C. J., presid- 
ing at the second Criminal Session of the Supreme Court 
at B^dulla for 1882. The prisoners weie tried on the 6th 
October on charges under the Coin Ordinance, 1857, The 
first count of the indictment charged both prisoners with 
uttering 6 counterfeit rupee coins, " against ihe form of the 
Ordinance'* &c., in terms of the first part of section 13. 
The second count charged the first prisoner with uttering 
6 counterfeit rupee coins while having 28 other such coins 
in his possession, <' against the form" &c. The third count 
charged the first prisoner with having in his possession, 
with intent to utter, 28 such counterfeit coins, " against the 
form*' &c., in terms of section 13. The maximum punish- 
ment prescribed for the ofiEence charged in the first count 
is imprisonment at hard labor for one year, and for each of 
the other offences charged imprisonment for two years at 
bard labor. The jury found the first prisoner Hendrick 
guilty on all three counts, and the second prisoner guilty on 
the first count. The Acting Chief Justice then sentenced 
the prisoner Hendrick to two years' imprisonment at hard 
labor as upon the second count, and the second prisoner to 
imprisonment for one year at hard labor, reserving the 



144 

question whether the offence charged by the second coant 
did not iricladethe offences charged by the first and third 
counts, and whether it was competent for the jury to coa- 
vict on all three connts. 

Gremer (assigned by the Coart) appeared for the prisoaer 
Hendfick. 

[ He referred to 2 Will, 4. c 34, sects. 7, 8 (on which 
the Ordinance 5 of 1857 was founded) and 24 & 25 Vict, 
c. 99, sects. 9, 10, II. Rez v. Bobinson (i). Reg. v. 
Gerrish (2)]. 

NelU D' Q. i#r, appeared for the prosecution. 

Db Wbt, a. C. J.— We think that the other two offences 
«re included in that charged by the second count* and that 
»o further sentence snould be imposed as for them* 



2gth November, 1882 and iSth January ^ 1883, 

Present — Ds Wbt> A. C J , Clare nob and Dias, J J* 

C. R- \ C W. HoRSFALL S'^.sSec/^^o^ 
Pussellawa, > v« 

Lr. A. '' The Qubbn*s Aovocatb. 

CrouTii liability 0/ under rating enactment ^Police Ordi* 
^j A nance, i86j, sect. j9~ Objections to assessment — Ordinance 
5 qfiS6], sect. i^Roman Dutch Law — Vectigalia. 

Section i of Ordinance 5 of 1867 covers exactly the same subject, 
natter as sect. 49 of the PoUee Ordinance^ 1865, and a little more, 
inasmuch as it provides for an appeal. The provisions of section i of 
the Ordinance of 1867 must be regarded as substituted for the provi« 
sions of the Ordinance of 1865, and as impliedly repealingr them. 

By Proclamation of the Governor in Executive Council, dated 4th 
December 1869, under section 34 of the Police Ordinance, the percentage 
on the assessed annual value, leviable on the buildings in the town of 
Pussellawa, as tax for the maintenance of Police, was fixed at 5 per 
cent From 1871 to 1881 certain Government buildings in that town, 
occupied by the Public Works Department, were assessed for, and paid, 
the tax like private buildings. In the assessment of annual values of 
the buildings for the year 1881, under section 37, the Government 
buildings were not assessed ; and the Governor by Proclamation of 
lotb June 1881 fixed the percentage le\iableat 7 J per cenL 

H.y whose estate of Rothschild had been assessed for the tax, and oa 
whom a notice had been served under section 40 computing the tax at 
7i per cent, on the assessed annual value, objected before the Court of 



(1) 1 M. C. C, 413. I (2) 2 M. & Rob., 219. 



U5 

Requests to paying the 7i per cent., and contended that the increase 
Irom 5 per cent, was owing to the omission fioni the assessment of 
the alwvc P. W. D. buildings, which were liable to be so assessed under 
the Police Ordinance. The Court below having ordered a new assess- 
meni to be made including the Government buildings, 

Held, ihat H. had in effect required the Court below to alter the 
percentage fii€d by the Governor *a Proclamation, which it clearly had 
no power to do, no appeal being given from the determination em- 
bodied in the Proclamation. 

Upon the quesii n whether the Crown was bound by section 34 of 
the Police Ordina-tce, 1865: 

Held, that it the Crown's prerogative had not been divested by 
statute, the mere fact of the Crown having waived it for 10 years did 
not stand in the way of its now being asserted. 

HeU also (following Ex parte the Postmaster General, te Bonkam, 
L. R., loCh. D., 595)ihat the fact that sectiori 33 expressly bound 
the Crown did not necessarily render the Crown liable under section 34. 

Heldt that there was not in the Oidinance expression of a clear in* 
tention that the Crown was to be bound, and that the law must there, 
fare be considered not to have been changed by the Ordinance. 

This was an inquiry under § 49 of Ord. No. 16 of 1865, 
into the non-assessment of certain Governaienl buildings 
in the town of Pussellawa for Police purposes under this 
Ordiuance, whereby the tax payable by other and private 
buildings in the town had been increased from 5 to 7^ per 
cent, on %he '^seessed * annual value. The Governor in 
CouQcil, by Procla nation of 4th December 1869, defined 
the limits of the town of Pussellawa and fixed the lax 
leviable at 5 per cent, on the annual value. By subsequent 
Proclamation dated 2nd February 1871 the hmits of the 
town were extended so as to include the Government build., 
ings now in question. By another Proclamation, of 10th 
June iSSiy the percentage was raised from 5 107^ per 
cent. This increase was owing in part to the exemption of 
certain Government buildings occupied by the Public 
Works Department. The present objections were raised 
by lidr. C- ^. Horsjall, in respect of Rothschild Estate, the» 
property of the Ceylon Company, Limited, the buildings on 
this estate having been assessed > 

At the hearing below, the Crown was represented by 
JanderwalL proctor, and the Objector appeared in person 
at]d gave evidence on oath. The Commissioner (J, W. 
Gibson) ruled as follows : — 

Hrst, with regard to the Crown's argument, that under § i 
of Ordinance 5 of 1867 the objection could only be to the 
assessment and not to the percentage fixed under § 34 of 
Ordinance 16 of 18 5^ 3 the Court held that the present ob« 



U6 

jcclion was to the asses ment for omittinpf to tax certain 
buildings. The 34'h section rendered liable ** all houses 
and buildings of every description lo an amount equal to 
such percentage of the bond Jlde annual value" as the Gov^ 
ernor should appoint ; excepting only ''buildings appropri^ 
ated to religious worship, and such as are placed in charge 
of military sentries" It was only fair that Government 
too should pay for a benefit enjoyed equally with private 
persons, viz. that of Police protection. This was apparent, 
ly the opinion of the Government at the date of the Procla* 
mation of 1871, which first included these Government 
buildings within the town limits. And the proclamatioQ of 
30th June 1881, which fixed the rate at 7^ per cent., made 
no mention of any new exemption. 

Secondly, on the argument that the Crown had the prero- 
gative right to exempt any buildings it chose, and that the 
procedure prescribed for recovering the tax could not be 
enforced, nor costs recovered, against the Crown. Oo this 
point, the Ordinance makes the buildings not expressly 
exempted liable, and can only be repealed by another Ordi- 
nance. 

The Court below therefore ruled the assessment bad, and 
ordered a new one to be made including the buildings in 
question— the Government to pay all costs. 

The Queen's Advocate appealed, and the appeal was 
argued by Dumbleton, Acting D. Q. A., for the appellant, 
and Layard for the respondenr, on 8th November 1882, 
before Cla^eence, J., and on 17th November before Da 
Wet, a. O. J., and Clarence, J., and finally, on 29111 
November 1882, before the Full Court (Pe Wet, A. C. J., 
Clasence and Dias, J J.) 

Nell, D. Q. A., for the Crown {Bumbleton with him.)— 
The Crown is not bound unless mentioned in the Ordinance 
expressly or by implication. The fact that certain Govern, 
ment buildings are expressly exempted does not render 
other Government buildmgs liable. Ex parte the Postmaster 
General in re Bonham (i) where the decision turned upon 
§§ 32 and 49 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1869, by which the 
Crown was held not bound, though by another section 
Crown debts were made first charges. The fact that for 10 



(i) L. R., 10 Ch. D., 



595. 



147 

years the Crown has consented to pay the tax does not 
debar it from raising the question now. 

Layard, for the Objector— From 187 1 to 1881 ibe Crown 
has paid assessment on these buildings, and the objection 
is now taken. [The Chief Justice — That does not pre- 
clude the objection. There was a case in which the Crown 
owned certain Railways in a colony, and was sued for 
damage caused by the sparks of locomotives. The Colonial 
Government had been in the practice of not objecting to 
being so sued, but on the arrival of a new Attorney-General, 
he thought the Crown was not so liable and raised the 
question ; and the Privy Council held he was right. DiAS, 
J. — I do not suppose you argue the Crown is bound by its 
acquiescence hitherto?] No. The case of Ex parte the 
Postmaster General merely re-affirmed the well-known prin- 
ciple, that the Crown is not bound unless expressly men- 
tioned in a statute, or unless such liability is deducible by 
necessary implication therein, bee the Report in 48 L. J. 
Bank., 84. [The Chivp Justice — The Crown here 
seems to say to people in villages and rural districts, We 
will help you by contributing ', bat to large towns it says, 
We stand upon our prerogative : you alone mQst pay.] Not 
so : ^ ^^ specifies certain purposes for which the people pay, 
and others for which the Crown pays. The Crown pro- 
vides the salaries of Police Superintendent and Inspector^, 
all other costs being borne by the people, except where (as 
in the prestnt instance) a force has been created under § 8- 
Where such a force is established, its expenses are levied 
under § 34 by the assessment of houses. The implication 
of the Crown's liability is perfectly clear. Had it been the 
intention of the Legislature to exempt all Government 
buildings, ihey would not have specified only a few^ 
t Clarence, J. — The remarks of Jbssbl.M. R., in the 
case cited apply here : it does not follow that because the 
Crown gave up its right as to certain buildings that exemp- 
tion should be extended !io others. ] The argument there 
was that there was no necessary implication, which I con- 
tend exists here. Besides, the P. W D. buildings, not 
having the protection of military sentries, require that of 
the Police, and should pay for such protection as private 
buildings do. [ Clarence, J. — There is a difficulty in the 
way of our interfering. The Governor is empowered to fix 
the percentage recoverable, and no appeal lo us is given 



148 

from his determination/] We coold onljr object on recerpt 
of notice under § 40, which is issued after such percentage 
has been fixed. But ihe Supreme Court has the power of 
amending ihe assessment by supply ing any omissiour under 
i I of Ordinance 5 of iSI;. 

Nelly in reply— The Froclamaiton of 3rd June^pabli^hedl 
in the Gazette of loth Junp^ 1881 dtrclares the force in 
Fussellawa to have been established under § 7. [Cl\. 
BBNCR* J. — But § 8 contemplates others than large towns^ 
and Pussellawa is not a large town} Kural police is 
described in § 33, and seems to be the punitory iBeasuj-e of 
quartering a torce upon a disorderly disinct. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

The following judgments were read in Court on i8.h 
January 1883, by Clarbngb, J. :— 

Clabbncb, J. — This matter comes before us on the 
Queen's Advocate's appeal against an order made by the 
Commissioner on an objection taken before him to the 
assessment of Rothschild £state under the Police Ordinance^ 
i86j The respondent in appeal^ the objector, represents 
the owners of Rothschild Estate 5 and it appears that that 
Estate, a part of it, is wi hin the limits of the town of 
Pussellawa as defined by Proclamation for the purposes of 
the Ordinance* 

When Mr* Dumhleton opened the Q. A.'s appeal before 
me, Mr. La^ar(i raised the question, whether any appeal 
lies. I am of opinion that th^ appeal does lie, and for these 
reasons : — I regard this as a proceeding under sect» i of 
Ordinance j of 1867, which expressly gives the appe 1. 
Mr. Horsf all's objection seems to have been laid before the 
Commissioner orally, and not ent bodied in any wrkteu 
statement presented to the Commissioner, and it seems to 
have been regarded by the Commissioner as an objection 
preferred under sect. 49 of the Ordinance of i86j. But 1 
think that these objections are now governed by sect, i 
of the Ordinance of 1867. Sect. 49 of the Ordinance of 
1865 provided that any person served with the assessment 
notice under sect. 40 might object before the Court of Re-*^ 
quests. The Ordinance of 1867, sect, i, covers exactly the 
same subject-matter and a little more. It provides that any 
person aggrieved either by assessment or Ron -assessment 



149 

of any tenement may object bt^fore the Court of Ri quests, 
if the amount of the rate does i ot exceed ;f io> and btjfore 
the District Court if the raie exceeds ^lo: and then an 
appeal is expressly ^iven to ihc Supreme ('ourt. This 
covers the suDJect^tratter of section 49 of the Ordinance of 
1865 and goes a litile tarther, inasmuch as there is provi- 
sion for an appeal against non.assessment. It appears to 
me, therefore, that the provisions of section i of the Ordi« 
nance of 1867 must be regarded as substitu'ed for the 
provisions of section .«9of the Ordinance ok J 865. and as 
impliedly repealing them 1 think it only just to the res« 
pondent, there having been no specific written objection 
presented to the Court of Request s» to regard his objection 
as made under the enactment which applies^ and not under 
one which I regard as repealed -, but the cnly enactmeni 
under which in my opinion it is now competent for him to 
proceed is one which expressly gives an appeal to ihU 
Court. 

Respondent's objection is an objection to the assessment 
of certain property of his principals, the Ceylon Coaipany» 
Limited. The property in quest ion» bearing assessment 
Nos* 1 15> 1 16, and 117, has been assessed at an aggregate 
value of Rs. 4,060. A Proclamation dated the 3rd June 
188 1 fixed the percentage at ;| per cent., and the Assess- 
ment Notice on which Respondent's objection is based is 
filled in with amounts computed on that footing. Res« 
pondent does not object to the settlement of the rateable 
V iloe at Rs.4,o60i but he objects to being required to pay 
7 j per cent, on that value. The grounds of the objection 
are* that certain Government buildings belonging to the P» 
W. D.> but not otherwise ascertained in the materials before 
us, have not been rated, whereas, as he contends, they 
should have been* 

Under the Ordinance j of 18*57 persons interested may 
object to t he assessment or non-assessment of any property. 
If any one finds that some one el*^ has not b /en rate % 
whose property he considrrs liable to contribute, he 
may under this section object to the non-assessmeiit. 
Thus Mr. Horsfall may have formally objected to the 
non^assessn ent of these P. W. D. buildings. His ob« 
jectiun, however, was not so framed. His letter of notice 
to the Government Agent, sent in compliance with the 
requirements of the Ordinance shews an objection to the 
assessment of his own property, Nos. ir^, 116, 117. If 



150 

the objection had been formally made to the non-assess- 
ment of the P. W. D. buildings, the Commissioner might, if 
saiisfied that those buildings were liable to be rated, ** sup- 
ply the omission.** Those are the words of the Ordinance. 
The only question open upon the objection taken was 
whether the Commissioner had power to amend the ass* 
es^ment ol Nos. 115, 116, 117 in the manner which Mr, 
Horsjall desired. T^e fact of the non asses menl of the 
P. W. D buildings is put forward as material in support of 
the objection to the assessment of Nos. 1 15, 116, 117. 

Putting formalities aside, Mr. Horsfalls contention arises 
thus : — Up to last year the Government buildings in ques- 
tion were a*^sessed for the tax, and the percentage payable 
all round was settled at 5 per cent. The advisers of the 
Government now consider that the Government ought not 
to contribute any longer, and is not bound to contribute* 
The Committee of Assessors appointed under Ordinance 7 
of 18C6 have not assessed the Governrnent buildings, and 
H, E. the Governor, by Proclamation dated the 3rd of June 
)88i, fixed the percentage at j\ per c^^nti. Of course the 
Committee of Assessors are not under the orders of the 
Governor in the matter of assessing any property. Then* 
duty is simply to assess at such values as seem just in their 
own eyes all property wh'ch in th^ir judgment is liable to 
be rated. As a facN these P. W. D. buildings do oot 
appear in the Assessment List. Whether they were in the 
first instance omitted by the Assessors, or whether the 
Gnvernment Agent has assumed to strike them out, con^ 
sidering himself entitled to do so under sect. 37, we do not. 
know. The learned Deputy Queen's Advocate admitted on 
the part of the Crown, that the Government are advised 
that they are not bound to contribute in respect of Govern- 
ment buildings, and that the Government do not intend to 
contribute ; and Mr. Horsfall urges that the reason why 
the percentage was last year raised from jj to 7| per cent, is 
because ♦he Government resolved not to pay for Govern- 
ment buildings, and in furtherance of that intention deter- 
mined to raise the i-ecessary amount of money by an 
increased percentage to be levi-'d from the rest of the pro- 
perty in the town. Mr Horsfall contends that under the 
Ordinance of 18 5 the G >vernment build ngs are liable to 
contribute, and consequently that the percentage ought not 
to have been raised Now, it is to my mind as clear as 
anytliing can be, that evert assuming these Government 



151 

baildings to be rateable, the Court of Ri quests had no 
power on that ground to touch this assessment,. The Court 
of Requests of course had power to alter the rateable value, 
but that is not what Mr. Horsfali complains of. He coni^ 
plains of the percentage. The percentage is fixed by H. E. 
the Governor in Execuiive (Council, under section 34 of the 
Ordinance of 1865. ^^ '^ there provided that 'he Governor 
may from lime to time by Proclama ion determine the 
amount necessary to be raised ; and the Governor is also 
directed from lime to time by like Proclamation to appoint 
the percentage on rateable value by which the levy is 10 be 
actually made. There is no appeal from the determination 
embodied in the Governor's Proclamation. What Mr. 
Horsfali^ in effect, has asked the Court of Requests to do is, 
to amend the Governor's Proclamation, and that the Court 
of Requests had clearly no power to do. The Proclamation 
having fixed the percentage, neither the < our't of Requests 
DOT this Court in appeal from the Court of ii^ quests, has any 
power whatever to go behind it. 

The order which the Court of Requests has made, and 
from which the Queen's Advocate appeals, is an order 
*'that a fresh asf^essment be made" including; the Govern- 
ment buildings in question. If the objection had been 
formally taken to the non-assesj«ment of the Government 
buildings, and it appeared that in point of jurisdiction the 
Court of Requests and not the Distric Court was the 
proper tribunal to entertain the objection, the ( ouf-t of Re- 
quests would have had power under the Ordinance of 1867 
to '* supply the omission,*' which may perhaps mean that 
it might direct the assessors to assess the buildings. That, 
however, would not affect the liability of Mr. HorsfalVs 
propcty, Nos. 115, 116, 117, to pay the percentage saddled 
upon them by the Proclamation of 18 Sp, Possibly, if it 
be decided th-it the Government buildings are rateable, H. 
E. the Governor may by some future Proclamation alter the 
percentage, but that is a matter with which the Court has 
no concern. The only question before the Court of Re- 
quests was, whether the assessment of Nos. 115, 116, 117 
ought to be amended. The Court was not asked to alter 
the rateable value, and the Court, has no power to med >le 
with the percentage. For these reasons the order appealed 
against is wrong and must ht set aside. 

The substantial question, however, which the oljection 
was intended'to raise wa?, whevher, under section 31 of the 



152 

Ordinance of J 865, these Government buildings are rateable. 
1 hat question was argued at length before us; and it seenas 
to me very undesirable that we should quit this appeal 
without pronouncing our opinion upon it. It may, and 
] robably — if we do not d^rcide it — will, be raised again upon 
a formal ob)ection to the non^assessmeut of those buildings. 
'J here is no doubt whatever about the general principles. 
The Crown does not pay taxes upon Crown property. That 
is a prerogative of the Crown. Moreover, the Crown is not 
bound by a lating enactment » or any other general enact* 
ment which would divi'St any prerogative of the Crown, 
U'lless the enactment affects the Crown either by express 
( terms or by necessary implication. The question we now 
have to consider is* whether sed ion 34 of the Ordinance of 
1865 binds the Crown, thereby divesting the Crown, quoad 
this Police Tax, of its prerogative of immunity from taxa. 
lion. 

Some reference was made du*-ing the argument of this 
appeal to the fact that up to last year the buildings now ia 
qurstion always were with the assent of the Government 
assessed for the tax. But that is a matter which we cannot 
take into consideration. It merely amounts to this, that up 
to last year the Crown was wiliiug to pay* If the preroga^ 
tive has not been divested by statute the mere fact that the 
Crown may have waived it for some years does not stand in 
^ the way of its now being asserted. The simple question is 
whether this enactment divests the Crown ot the prero. 
gative. 

There are some sections of the Ordinance of 1865 which 
expressly bind the Crown. For instance, the 33rd section 
declares that certain specified expenses shall be del rayed by 
the Government. The same section also enacts that the 
expenses of the Police in rural districts shall be defrayed ia 
equal shar«;s by the iiovertiment and the proprietors of 
estates. Hut it does not follow, because some sections of 
a statute expressly bind the Crown, that all oiher provisions 
of the statute are therefore bmding. See for instance the 
able judgment of the Master of the Rolls in re Bunham, ex 
parte the Postmaster General (i). The section which we 
now have to consider is section 34, dealing with the provi« 
sion for the expenses of Police in non.municipal towns. 
That Section does not expressly name the Cro^rn as a con* 

(1) L. R., loCh. D.,595. 



153 

tributory to the tax, and it does not follow that, because thd 
Crown has been willing to contribute in rural districts, 
therefore it is to be considered as bound to contribute in 
Don-municipal towns. Section 34 enacts that in non^ 
municipal towns the tax shall be leviable upon ''all houses 
and buildings of every description and on all lands and 
tenements whatsoever." These are merely general words 
aod do not by themselves bind the Crown. But at the end 
of the section there is an exemption in favour of places of 
worship and buildings '* such as are placed in charge of 
military sentries ;*' and it was strenuously argued for res« 
pondent — and I confess to having been much struck by the 
consideration — that, on the principle expressio unius est 
exclusio alteriusy this is only explicable upon the hypothesis 
of an intention that all Government buildings except those 
under military sentry should pay. It certainly is difficult 
to understand why the exemption in favour of buildings 
under military sentry was inserted, if Crown properly in 
general was not to be taxable, but there are other provisions 
of the Ordinance connected with sect. 34, which seem to 
me entirely irreconcilable with an intention that houses, 
lands, &c , belonging to the Crown should be rateable. 
SectioBS 38, 39, 40, 41 all have reference to liability of the 
lands, houses, &c., rateable under section 34, and their 
owners and occupiers. Section 38 empowers the Commit- 
tee of Assessors to require the owner or occupier to furnish 
certain information 3 and whoever refuses or fails to furnish 
such information within one week is rendered liable to a 
fine of £^, Now it is impossible that this can have been 
intended to apply to houses, &c., owned by the Crown, and 
yet it applies to al^ houses, &c.» rateable under section 
Z^* Similarly the provisions in section 41 as to seizure of 
moveable property on the premises are provisions which it 
is impossible to consider as intended to apply to houses, Ac, 
owned by the Crown. If on the one hand I cannot ex.* 
plain the exemption of buildings under military sentry if the 
Crown is not to be bound, still on the other hand I cannot 
reconcile sections 38 and 41 with the supposition that the 
Crown is to be bound* I can only, then, fall back upon 
the principle put by Sir Oeorge Jessel in the case already 
cited, that " if it is intended to make a clear and strong 
alteration of the law, you expect to find clear and strong 
words to effect that alteration.'* If there be doubt we 
must regard the law as unchanged by the Ordinance* It 



154 

is sufficient, in mj opinion, to say that I do not find in the 
Ordinance expression of a clear intention that the Crown is 
to be bound. 

In my opinion this appeal succeeds, the order appealed 
against must be set aside, and respondent's objection to the 
assessment of Nos. 115, 116, 117 overruled, with costs in 
both Courts. 

DiAS, J.^I concur on both points. 

Dfl Wet, A. 0, J.— I agree with the judgments, and 
have only to add that by the law of the land Crown pro« 
perty is not liable to be taxed for Municipal purposes. The 
principle is that the Crown is not bound by any statute, if 
it be not expressly made to be so bound. This is the prin« 
ciple of the English Law, and nothing can be found in the 
Roman Dutch Law to contradict that priticiple: In Voet, 
39. 4, 38, it is clearly laid down that the FhcuSf which repre« 
sents the Crown to all intents and purposes, is not liable to 
pay vectigalia. The vectigalia was not only considered in 
the nature of a State tax, but also applied to Municipalities* 
lide Voetf 39- 4.91 where the word used to denote rates is 
vectigalia* 

Set aside. Objections overruled* 



jst February, 1883- 

Present*— Clarbncb, J. 

p. C, > Kathiramer Kamthbr 

Ghavagachcheri, > v. 

6,889* J Ampalavanar Koyinlar. 

jurisdiction of Police Court^Paddy, Ordinance, No, 14 of 
1840, sects. 6 and i^^Penalty of double value oj Government 
share of crop '^Queens Advocate's certificate under Ordi^ 
nance 11 of i858» sect, 99. 

Section 14 of the Paddy Ordinance, 1840 enacts inter alia that any 
proprietor, who shall thresh the crop of bis field liable to tax, withoat 
givinfr due notice to the headman, shall on conviction be fined to the 
amount of double the value of the share due to Government as tax. 

The defendant, having been charged with a breach of section 14, was 
convicted and sentenced by the Police Court to pay a fine of Rs. 69, 
being double the value of the Government share. 

Held, that in the absence of the (Queen's Advocate's certificate con- 



i 



155 

temptated by section 99 of the Administraiion of Justice Ordinancef 
i868> the Police Court bad not the jurisdictioa to cntertaio tbe charge. 

The defendant in this case was charged with a breach of 
sections 6 and 14 of Ordinance No. 14 of 1840, in that the 
defendant did on the 2nd September 1882 thresh the crop 
of his field, which was liable to tax, without giving notice 
to the complainant* who was the renter, of his intention to 
thresh the same. The Police Magistrate (Haines) after 
hearing evidence on both sides convicted the defendant and 
fined him Rs. 6g, half to be paid to cx)mp1ainant. 

The defendant appealed. 

^. Grenier, for the appellant, cited P. C. Galle 84167 (i), 
P, a Maiale 2iSss («)• 
S' Orenier for the complainant^ respondent. 

Clarbncb, J.— «Set aside and information and proceed- 
ings qnashed. In the absence of the certificate contemplat- 
ed bj sect. 99 of Ordinance 1 1 of t868, the Police Court had 
DO jurisdiction to entertain this charge, for the section of 
the Ordinance under which the charge is laid requires the 
Court to fine thd defendant double the value of the share, 
which in this case gives an amount of more than Rs. 60. 

Proceedings quashed. 



27M and 2Stk November, 1882 and ist February » 1883* 

Present— Db Wbt» A. C J.» Olabbncb and Dias, JJ. 

Crown Case Reserved* 

4th Sessional The Qubbn 
Colombo^ > V* 

No. 4. J Kathiriatchige Pxkis Appu. 

Witness who does not understand the obligation of an oath 
'^Oaih or affirmation* 

Upon a charge of Rape, the prosecutrix D. was called as a witness. 
She was about 10 years of age, understood the difference between truth 
and falsehood, and that it was not right to tell what was not true ; was 
possessed of great natural intelligence, but was wholly uninstructed^ 

(i) Gfenier(i873), 39. 

(2} Civil Minutes, Sup. Ct., 8th March 1882. 



156 

and satisfied the Court that she did not understand the obYigatidn of ait 
oath. She was affirmed and examined, and the jury convicted the 
prisoner mainly on her evidence. 

Held, upon a case reserved, (Pipy CLAnBNcs and DiAS, JJ-r di»- 
ienlienle ob Wet, A. C. J.) that to render D.*s testknony admissible it 
was not necessary that she should comprehend the nature of an oath ;. 
and that she was a proper person to be affirmed ; and that the con- 
viction should therefore be confirmed. 

Per DS Wet, A. C. J. — In all cases, no witness can give evidence 
except upon oath or solemn affirmation \ and the presiding judge 
having been satisfied that D. did not understand the obligation of a» 
oathy or its equivalent a solemn affirmation, she should not have been 
called upon to make an affirmation.. D.*s evidence having been illegally 
admitted, and the jury having convicted on that evidence solely, the 
conviction should be set aside. 

This was a Case Reserved frofti the November Session of 
the Supreme Court at Colombo for 1882. At the trial 
before Dias, J. aod a Sinhalese Jury on 20th November 
1882, Dumhletony Acting D. Q. A., conducted the prosecu^ 
lion, and the prisoner was undefended. The prisoner 
having been convicted, Df as^ J., stated the following Case 
ior the opinion of the Collective Court : 

'' The prisoner was indicted for Rape upon a girl called 
Durihamy of about 10 years of age. When this Durihamy 
was called as a witness, the interpreter asked her what her 
religion was. She answered that she had no religion. Upoa 
this I put her a few questions for the purpose of ascertain.^ 
ing whether she understood the obligation of an oath. She 
gave very intelligent answers^ but on the whole I was satis, 
fied that she did not understand the obligation of an oath. 
8he, how«ver, understood the di£Eereoce between truth and 
falsehood, and that it was not right to speak What was not 
true ; but she did not seem to understand the consequences 
of speaking what is not true. The gfrl appeared to be 
between lo and 12 years of age and possessed a great deal 
of natural intelligence^ but she was wholly uninstructed, 
and seemed to have grown up without any training at ail. 
She gave a very intelligent account of what happened to her^ 
and in all respects I was satisfied that she was a witness on 
whose evidence I might act. Accordingly I had her affirm* 
ed and examined, and on her evidence mainly the Jury 
found the prisoner guilty. Having some doubts as to the 
correctness of the course I pursued in affirming a witness 
who, in my opinion, did not understand the obligation of 
an oath, I reserved the point for the consideration of the 
Collective Courts and remanded the prisoner. 



157 

*' The qnestion which I submit for the consideration of the 
Collective Court iSr whether a witness of lo years of age» 
.•who is naturally intelligent and able to give an intelligent 
tfbconnt of what she knew> could be examined as a witness 
on her oath or affirmation though she does not understand 
the obligation of an oath." 

The case was argued in connection with The Queen v» 
Buye AppUi ante, p 136. 

Nell, D. Q. A't for the Crown. The prisoner was on- 
represented. 

Cur. adv. vvlt» 

(ist February, 1883). ^* Wet, A. C. J. — In all cases» 
whether criminal or civH, no witness can give evidence 
except upon oath, or solemn affirmation^ as provided by law. 
I bis rule applies equally to infants as well as to adults^ 
The legal consequences which flow from giving false testis 
mony» after oath taken, or affirmation made, are in both 
cases identical. If, in the case put, the presiding Judge 
was, as he says, satisfied that the child did not understand 
the solemn obligation of an oath, or its equivalent the 
solemn affirmation, I am of opinion that she should not 
have been called upon to make an affirmation. As, upon 
her sole testimony, (to my mind illegal under the circum- 
stances) the prisoner was convicted, I am of opinion that 
the conviction was bad and should be set aside. 

Clarbncb, J. — I do not think it was necessary in order 
to render this child's testimony admissible, that she should 
comprehend the nature of an oath. It appears to me that 
she was a proper person to be affirmed, and having been 
affirmed in the statutory manner, her evidence was in my 
opinion properly left to the Jury. This conviction^ in my 
opinion, should be confirmed. 

DiAS, J., concurred in the judgment of Clarence, J. 

Conviction sustained* 

[and February 1883.. The prisoner was brought up 
before Dias, J., sitting in Criminal Session, and sentenced 
to three years' imprisonment at hard labour]. 



158 

isi and Sih February t 1 88j* 

Present — Clabextci, J. 

D. C. "N W. S. Bennett and another 

Colombo. [ Niel'bow. ■^'^^/^?- 
• J//^^ 85,069. J Ex parte J. A. Robbrtson. 

A, 57S^ Contempt of Court -^Breach of Injuncttoti'^Power of Dir* 

trkt Court to issue . injunction affecting properly outside its 
territorial limits hut the subject of suit before it — Agent of 
party enjoined -'Notice^ Committal for defined period. 

In an action in the District Court of Colombo to enforce a mortgage 
of a coffee estate situated within the jurisdiction of the District Court 
of Kandy^ the District Court of Colombo issued an injunction against 
the defendant and his agents to restrain them from coppicing tbe 
cinchona trees growing on the mortgaged property. R»» the defen. 
dant*^s manager of the estate^ after tbe issue of tbe injunction, ditected 
bis subordinate the superintendent of tbe estate to uproot all the 
cinchona trees growing on tbe estate. Upon motion to commit R. as 
for a contempt of Court : 

Hild, that the District Court of Colombo, having otherwise jjorisdie. 
tion to entertain the mortgage suit, had power by injunction to restrain 
the defendant (and any aget.t of his, though not a party to- tbe action, 
and resident outside the court's territorial jurisdiction) from acts upoa 
the land concerned in the action. 

Quaert, whether, tbe defendant having submitted to tbe jurisdiction 
of the court, it was open to bb agent R. to raise the questbn of jurist 
diction. 

Held also, that the fact of R. being the manager and agent of de« 
fendant (on whom the injunction had been served) was not sufficient 
proof, upon the present motion, of notice to R. of tbe iigunction ;, and 
that it was for the plaintiffs to show, beyond reasonable doubt, that 
at the time of the alleged breach R. knew of the existence of the in^ 
junction. 

It was proved that at tbe time of uprooting tbe dncbonas R. lived ao 
miles from tbe estate and directed the uprooting by letter to the 
superintendent, who inquired whether H. bad authority to do so, and 
stated that bis reason for hesitating to uproot was the fact that there 
bad been a legal dispute about cmchona cutting. Upon this R. foCA 
warded a letter from defendant informing the superintendent that be 
bad the right to uproot, having consulted bis legal advisers. R. bad 
no direct notice of the injunction. 

Held, that though these facts did not justify the committal of R., it 
was a case in which B. should pay all the costs in the court below. 

On 17th August 188 1 the plaintiffs commenced this 
action to recover the sum of Bs. 89,652.57 due on a bond 
dated 8th October 1877, and to ha?e Ntthsdale Estate* 
Dirobula, specially mortgaged by the said bond* declared 
bound and executable to satisfy the said debt. There was 
also a prayer for provisional judgment. 



159 

Answer was filed on 17th November 188 r, denying 
breach o! conditions^ on non*-! ulfilcnent of which the action 
was founded, and setting up various defences on the merits. 
After further pleading, joinder of issue was entered of 
record on a7th March 1 882. 

On 4th May r88i, Mr. A. 0. Joseph, Proctor for the 
plaintiffs, moved on afSdavits that an injunction do issue 
restraining the defendant and his agents from coppicinsr the 
Cinchona trees on Nithsdale Estate until the determination 
of this action. The affidavit of Mr. H.H. Corfe, tendered 
in support of the motion, set out that he was Visiting Agent 
of Messrs. Sabonadiere & Co., and had been engaged in the 
business of reporting on corps, &c, for 4 years 3 that he 
knew Nit/udale Estate, which consisted of 242 acres of 
land, planted with Cinchona, Succirubra and Officinalis; 
that he had just visited Mthsdale Estate and lound that out 
of the Succirubra trees over three years old thereon, con- 
puted at a6,ooo in number, some 8, coo had been coppiced* 
and he had been informed by Mr. Kerr (who was afterwards 
shown to be defendant's Superintendent of Nithsdale) that 
it was the intention of the defendant to have all the Succi- 
rubra so coppicedj with the exception of some that had been 
shaved $ that the deponent considered that the coppicing that 
had been done and that was to be done was calculated 
seriously to depreciaie the value of the Estate as mortgage 
security, because, under any circumstances, the stools or 
stamps of the trees so coppiced would not give any return 
for 2 or 3 years after operation, and a certain percentage of 
them would die 5 and that those that lived would be of little 
or no improved value, while, under ordinary circumstances* 
they would go on improving in value for several years. 

The plaintiffs also put in an affidavit by Mr, A O. Joseph^ 
their Proctor, to prove that Nithsdale was the only security 
the plaintiffs had for their debt, and that the rest of the 
defendant's property in the Island was heavily encumbered, 
even Nithsdale having mortgages on it subsequent to plains 
tiffs'. 

At the hearing of this application on 13th May 1882, the 
defendant tendered his own affidavit to prove that coppicing 
would not depreciate the value of the Estate, and that, even 
if the .Cinchonas were all put out of the question, the plains 
tiffs had sufficient security, and that the rooting up had 
been only of plants that had struck slab-rock and were 
dying off, and that Mr. Corfe had not visited the Estate as 



160 

Visiting Agfent as alleged. In a later affidavit, in answer 
to Mr. Joseph! s^ the defendant further justified the removal 
of the Cinchonas as rendered necessary by good husbandry, 
he plaintiffs* motion was allowed, and on 17th May the 
Injunction issued, which was as follows : 

** To Niel Gow of Forest Creek Estate, Dimbula, his 
contractors, servants, workmen and agents, and every of 
them, Qreeting. 

Whereas by a certain order of Owen William Cecil Mor- 
gan, Acting Judge of the District Court of Colombo, bearing 
date the 17th day of May i832 and made m a certain action 
wherein the abovenamed William Stephenson Bennett an4 
Eliza Frances fiennett are plaintiffs and you the said Niel 
Gow are deft ndant, it was ordered that a writ of Injunction 
should is>ue to enjoin and restrain you the said Niel Gow, 
your conti actors, servants, workmen and agents, from 
coppicing ihe Cinchona trees growing on Nithsdalt Estate 
in the district of Agra Ouvah, DimbuIIa, in the Central Pro* 
vince* until after trial of this action or till further order. 
We therefore do hereby strictly enjoin and command you 
the said Niel Gow and your contractors, servants, work- 
men and agents, and every one of you, from coppicing 
the Cinchona trees growing on the said Nithsdale Es- 
tate in the aforesaid district until after the trial of this 
action, or until our said Court shall make order to the con« 
trary, and We further command you the said Niel Gow to 
pay to the said plainti£Es the costs of preparing, issuing and 
serving this writ." 

The Supreme Court, on i8th August 1882, dismissed the 
appeal which defendant had lodged against the order grant* 
ing the Injunction. {Per Clabjbncb and D1A.S, J J. Be* 
ported 5 S. 0. C, 79). 

The Fiscal returned that this writ had been served on the 
defendant at Forest Creek Estate Bungalow on 7th June 
1882. On list September 1882, plaintiffs moved for an 
Order Nisi on the defendact, and yohn Affleck Robertson as 
his aider and assistant, to show cause why they should not 
be committed *o prison for a contempt of Court in disobey* 
ing the Injunction of 17th May 18^2. This motion was 
supported by the affidavit of John Northmore, one of the 
Attornies of the plaintiffs in the Island, who deposed to 
having visited Nithsdale Estate on 13th September 1882, 
and having found nearly all t^ e Cinchonas over a year old 



1^1 

^iprooted j that deponent had been informed by 0. Minto 
Gwatkiut lately a superintendent of NilhsdaJe, that in his 
presence the defendant, assisted by 3^ohn Affleck Robertson 
of Wotton Estate, Dinibala, had caused the Cinchonas to 
be uprooted about 20lh July 1882, and subsequent days ; 
that Gwatkin had shown deponent a letter addressed by 
Robertson to Gwatkin, from which deponent inferred that 
Ki/bertson then acted as defendant's agent. 

The Acting District Judge (Liesching) on 22nd S^eptem- 
ber examined Mr. C. M. Gwatkin on oath. He deposed to 
having been Manager of Nithsdale from June ist to August 
25th 1 8 82. and to have received his orders as such from 
l^bertson, to uproot the Cinchonas, in writing, which 
iostruciions witness had destroyed on leaving the estate. 
Witness produced copies of letters written by him to Robert- 
son on 13th, I4tb, ipt^h and 20th July (C, Ci, C2, C3,) 
and proved the signatures of defendant and of Robertson 
to letters A and B, (both of 20th July). Witness wrote £ 
in reply to A. Witness proceeded on 21st July to uproot 
ttie growing Officinalis trees, and the large Succirubra 
trees of 4 and 5 years old, and the stools of trees already 
coppiced. Robertson was not present. T«7o hundred 
coolies a day were at work, some borrowed from other 
estates. Robertson was kept informed of all work going 
on. Some seven or eight hundred thousand trees, some 
only a year old, were uprooted, and the bark removed to 
Waverley Store. Defendant bad told witness verbally to 
remove the bark there before any seizure was made under 
writ of Court. Bark had not previously been stored on 
Waverley, which was another estate. Witness had never 
konwn any one to uproot trees of one year old for bis own 
profit, but considered it was devastation. It was nob 
good husbandry to uproot the stools of Cinchonas after 
coppicing. 

Upon these materials the District Judge issued the Order 
Nisiy calling upon defendant and Robertson to show cause 
on 29th September 1882 against committal for contempt of • 
Court. On 29th September Layard, plaintiff's Counsel, 
stated that defendant had left the Island under an assumed 
name before the application for the Order had been made- 

The discussion on the Order was adjourned for 5th 
October, on which day Broivne appeared for Robertson and 
cross-examined the witness Gwatkin. Layard represented 
plaintiffs. 



162 

The Court, setting out the facts, ruled as follows: Kaow^ 
ing of the eiistence of the lojunction, Robertson had 
caused an immense number of Cinchonas to be, not cop» 
fnced but uprooted, to the serious injury of the estate and of 
the mortgagees, and it was now contended he had not 
disobeyed the Court, inasmuch as he did not coppice. On 
this point, the order of the Supreme Court, in appeal from 
the allowance of the Injunction, showed their Lordships 
thought the security on the estate would be reduced by 
coppicing. It was an aggravation of the contempt, that 
Bebertson had uprooted thousands of young Cinchonas. He 
was therefore guilty of a contempt, for which the Court 
sentenced him to be imprisoned without hard labour for 6 
months and to. pay the costs of the Order Nisi. He was 
allowed bail pending appeal. 

The following were the letters produced and relied 
upon :— 

A. 
Forest Creek, Dimbula, 20th July, i88i* 
C, M. Gwatkin, Esqr., Superintendent, 

Nithsdale Estate. 

Dear Sir, — I have seen the Correspondence between your- 
self and Mr. J. A. Robertson Regarding the harvesting of 
the Cinchona on Nithsdale. I have consulted my legal 
advisers regarding this matter and I have to inform yoa 
that I am quite justified in ordering the harvesting of the 
Cinchonas as you were, instructed by me through Mr. 
Robertson. I therefore have to direct you to carry out this 
order without further delay with all hands irrespective of 
weather. I am much surprised at your questioning my 
orders as my Superintendent. — Faithfully yours, Nibl 
Gow. 



B. 

Forest Creek, 20th July, 1882. 
Charles Minto Gwatkin Esq. 

Superintendent, Nithsdale Estate, Agra Patnas. 

Dear Sir, — I enclose an official letter from Mr. 60 w re 
the harvesting of the Cinchonas as previously advised by me. 
You will please lose NO timb in carrying out my instruct 
tions regarding same with stbbt cooly you have. Your 
answer per bearer assuring me you will at once comply with 
Mr. Qow's request and nay orders will oblige> which will 



163 

««v6 time add farther dday ia the ettrryiiig oot of this most 
important work— Yours faithfully^ John A. RoBKaTSON^ 
Manager for Mr. Gow. 

[ A- was enclosed in B. ] 



Extracts from letters of Owaiiin to Robertsons 

0. 

July 13, 1881. 

Do I in any way comproniise myself by carrying out 
jour instructions with regard to the Cinchona cutting ? I 
suppose you have a right to do this, or you would not ask 
tne to do it, but if it compromise me I cannot go on. 



Cx. 

July 14, 1 88a. 

I wrote you yesterday by the coolie who went with the 
carpenter, and again repeat the purport of my letter with 
regard to the Cinchona. Are you legally justified in in* 
«tructing me to cut the Cinchona, and do I in any way 
compromise myself by carrying out your instructions ? If 
you are justified I can soon cat diem out, but if not I must 
dedioe to do so. I will not in any way mu myself up with 
the legal or private afEairs of the Estate. 

■ f* u rn 

C 2. 

July 19, 1881. 
I beg to call attention to my letter of 14th. As I therein 
3tated I would not mix myself up with the legal or private 
affairs of the estate* which are matters between yourself, 
Mr. Gow and those it may concern* and am* awaiting a 
reply to my letter with your assurance that I am doing 
nothing illegal with regard to the cutting out the Cinchona, 
Wore proceeding to do so. 



Cj. 

July ai, 1882. 
As I have Mr. Oow*8 assuranoe that he has consulted his 
legal adviser oq the Cinchona cutting, and is justified in 
doing or ordering to be done the harvesting of the Cinchona^ 
the work will be put in hand to.morrow morning. Why I 
hesitated in doing this was that I knew there had been 
some legal dispute before about the cutting of the Cinchona 
aod I wished 10 be perfectly clear on this point, that I am 



164 

doing nothing illegal by carrying out the order given by 
you. 

E. 

Nithsdale, July 21st, 1882. 

Niel Gow Esqr, Forest Creek. 

Dear Sir,— I am in receipt of your letter of 20th- The 
reason I hesitated in carrying out Mr. Robertson's instruc- 
tions was that I knew there had been socne legal dispute 
about the Succ: harvesting. But since I hare your assure 
ance that your legal adviser informed you that you. are quite 
justified in harvesting the Cinchona, as I was instructed b^ 
Mr. Robertson, the harvesting will he proceeded with with 
all possible despatch. — Yours very truly, C. Minto Gwat- 

RIN. 

Ebbenson appealed on the grounds, (i) that the Court 
had no jurisdiction to bind him by lii junction, he^ having 
been at the tinae the Injunction issued resident in the Cen- 
tral Province, and beyond the territorial jurisdiction oF the 
District Court of Colombo, and he having also beet^ no 
party to any action then pending before tha Distric& Court 
of Colombo ; (2) that no contempt had been intended,, and 
the respondent had offered to apoVogi'^e, which was sutfi* 
cient vindication of the Court's dignity and authority. 

Browne {YanLangenherg with him) for Robertson, the 
appellant. 

First, the District Court had no power to bind the 
appellant by an Injunction, he being outside its territorial 
jurisdiction, and neither himself nor his property concerned 
in any action pending before it. The Colombo Court had 
jurisdiction in the action only because the bond sued on 
was executed in Colombo, while both the obligor and the 
mortgaged property were in Dimbula, within the jeirisdic^ 
tion of the District Court of Kandy. The Court could 
certainly restrain the defendant by Injunction, and also his 
servants, but these latter, it is submitted, only while they 
were within the territorial jurisdiction, which Robertson was 
not. The District Court has a strictly territorial jurisdictioa. 
/). C' Kandy 6,61^ (j). Though that case was decided on 
the Charter and before Ordinance 11 of i358 which nowr 
regulates jurisdiction^ yet the analogy is the same, the 

(i) RamaNathan (1861), f8« 



165 

Ordinance introdQcing no new principls here. As to sum-^ 
menses, the Rules made by the J adobes under the Charter 
of 1833 (i) enabled them to be directed to the Fiscal of 
another district and served there without the intervention of 
the Court having jurisdiction over such other district. Bat 
writs of attachment and cTecution have to be indorsed by 
the Court within whose jurisdiction thej are to be executed. 
Sect. j9. Ordinance 4 of 1867. Fiscils are only bound to 
execute process directed to them, ** according to the extent; 
of the jurisdiction'* of the Court issuing them. Sect. 19;. 
Now, such jurisdiction, in the case of a District Court, is 
distinctly defined by sect. 65 of Ordinance ii of 1868. 
[ Clarbncb, J — Service of an Injtanction is not necessary t 
notice to the party enjoined would be sufficient. ] Yes, if 
the Court had jurisdiction to issue it Now, Robertson has 
been for 9 or 10 years resident outside the Colombo Oourt's 
jarisdiction, he is no party to the action, and none of his 
immoveable property is concerned therein. How then can 
that Court extend its jarisdiction outside its territorial; 
limits ? It is not like the case of the Queen's Bench in 
JSngland, whose process runs throughout England : the only 
similar question there might be as to its effect in Scotland^ 
perhaps. The present plaintiffs, besides* are not without 
their proper remedy. They nii^ht file a libel and obtain an 
Injunction from the District Court of Kandy ; or they might 
upon proper materials obtain such Injuuction from the 
Supreme Court (which certainly has jurisdiction over the 
wh >le Island) under sect. 34 of Ordinance f i of 1868. 
Bird*s Case (3). The lact of the existence of such another 
remedy is an argument against the allowance of the one 
asked for. The mere relation of principal and agent does 
not confer on a court having jurisdiction over one party 
jarisdiction over the other who is ou side its territorial 
limits. The Carton Iron Go- v. Maclaren (3). 

Second y, even if the Injunction had been rightly issued^ 
there is no proof that boherlson deliberately disobeved it. 
There is proof of s**rvice of ihe Injunction on the defendant,. 
but not on Robertson. [Clarkncb, J. — I shall assume 
that defendant's " Manager" had no«ice of it, unless he 
shows the contrary bv afiSdavlt or otherwise.] (a) la 
Northmore's affidavit Rob rtson is said to have assisted the 



(1) R. & 0', r. 2^» p. 66. \ (2) Morg. Dig., p. 203,. 

(3) 5 H. L. Cas., 416. 



16^ 

def' ndant in uprooting the Cinchonas. Nbw, Rob^rtwi^, H 
is proved, lived 20 miles off, And was not once on the 
estate while the aprooting was going on. {b) Further» tli» 
Injunction was against coppicing^ and uprooting is not » 
breach of it* [ Clarbncb* J-— It is much worse* Yoa 
may as well contend that cutting off a man's arm is not 
worse than cutting off his hand only.] It is a debateable 
point as to whether coppicing or uprooting is better hasu. 
bandry, and many planters hold opposite views. For re- 
planting is going on at the same time with the uprooting^ 
and in the rotation of crops there is a constant return* 
which is not the case with coppicing. ^CLiLBSNaJB, J.— 
i do not think it is at all debateable. 3 

Thirdly, if Robertson be held guilty of a contempt^ the 
punishment is excessive, Robertson appeared immediately 
on notice to answer for his contempt^ and after prote-stin^ 
he had meant no contempt of the Court offered through his 
Counsel to apologise. He is a European proprietor of 
estates him sell, resident 18 or 19 years in the country, and 
it is an excessive sentence to commit him ta jail without 
the option of a fine, [0L4RfeN0B, J.-^8ubject to what I 
may hear from the other side, I think the proper order 
would have been to commit him to cnstody till he should 
purge his contempt. G^efiier— That was the order we 
asked of the District Court. Clarsnob* J. (to appellant's 
Counsel)— Do you object to the general power of the 
District Court to punish a contempt not tit fo/cie curim ? 
There is the case of the Observer newspaper. Only that 
here the Court had made an order which was disobeyed* 
wbile none had been made on the newspaper writer, who 
was no party to any action.] There is also the case of the 
Times newspaper, the editor (Allardyce) and publisher 
(Widlake) of which were charged with a coutempt of this 
Court. There* on the editor* s taking itput^ himself the 
whole blame of the matter, the publisher was absolved and 
an apology was accepted, to which as full publication w^s 
given as to the objectionable matter. [ Cla.ksncs, J.-— I 
should like to see the reasoning of the Judges in the Ok* 
server case. ] 

Gr enter {Layard and (Vithers with him) for the plainttff^i, 
respondents. 

Neither of the newspaper cases has any application here. 
In the Observer case the editor was charged with having 



1€7 

pablbhed contemptuoQa matter of the District Judge tn his 
judicial capacity, and it was held that a District i.ourt, like 
Ml £nglish Count J Coi.rt) could not punish for a contempt 
not committed in rhe face of the Court. While here is an 
Injunction issued by a competent Court $ and where a 
Qoort has power to issue a process* is it impotent to punish 
for a disobedience thereof ) The power is absolutely ntces-- 
sary for the due working of the Court, and it has been so 
held in the case of English County Courts. Ex parte 
Martin (i). 80 in Ceylon, in Odayappa Chetty « iJase* 
a party was fined £ipo as for a coutempt in prosiuu. 
ting the process of the Court, because he procured 
service thereof on a person other than it was issued for, and 
obtained a false return by the server. [ Clarbncb, J •— • 
Could a Court of Requests enforce its orders by attach* 
ment ?] Certainly. Sir £dward Creasy held in a case in 
which the seizure of a public servant's salary was for the 
first time discussed, that the Court of Requests of Colombo 
c:ofild punish the Deputy Fiscal of Batticaloi for a coa«. 
tempt commirted at Batticaloa, C» R- BaUicaloa, 1055 (2)^ 
Under sect. 25, Ordinance 4 of 1867, such Fiscal is ameoa* 
hie to the Court issuing the process, but punishable by the 
Court within whose territorial jurisdiction he acts. That 
section of the fiscals Ordinance expressly provides for ser** 
vice of all processes* other than writs of sequestration and 
execution, in any part of the Island without judicial i0i» 
dorsement. 

As to the ob|ection to the regularity of the course adopt- 
ed. Lord Lyndhurst says, in Durant v. Moore (^)i ** Upon 
principle I think that the order to shew cause d^es not in 
any way prejudice a defendant ^ for as he must be personally 
served, if he has merits, he may on shewing cause be dis.. 
missed. Such an order is not more hard than an order for 
immediate committal. On the contrary, it is less so ; for 
it gives the defendant longer time to consider and answer 
the affidavits made against him by the plaintiff. Upon 
principle, I think that an order to shew cause why a party 
should not be committed for breach of an Injunction may 
be served personally $ and for this I consider the case of 
JUudge V Hughes to be a conclusive authority. These 
proceedings, therefore^ have been quite regular." [ Clab« 



(1) L. R., 4 Ql. B. D., 214. t (3) 3 R. & M., 34. 
(3) RamaNatban (186^), i6P | "*- 6ee Appendix G. 



168 

KrNCB!, J.— The point you refer to was mooted by me. I 
^as not aware that the order was ex parte. ] It is clear 
from the correspondence that Robertson knew of the InjuQC* 
lion, and yet continued his instructions to Gwatkin to 
uproot. Gwatkin demurred to carrying them out, and 
Robertson then wrote the conclusive letter B. of 20th July> 
in which he speaks of ** my orders," and signs himself 
*' manager for Mr. Gow.'* Gwatkin clearly proves that 
such uprooting of young plants is devastation and is never 
done for profit. 

The Ttijunction is against the defendant, and his con.» 
tractors, servants and agents, and Robertson as his manager 
is an agent. But even if he were not, h.* is liable as know« 
ingly assisting the defendant. U^eUesley {Lord) v. Lord 
Momngion (1), [ Olaiibncb, J. — Any stranger who did 
so with notice would be equally liable.] Had Robertson 
sworn that he did not know of the Injunction, it would 
have been different* bat such evidence is absolutely want* 
ing. 

As to jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of a District Court is 
not strictly territorial under section 65 of Ordinance 11 of 
1 863 5 for it could entertain a) action in which the cause of 
action arose in part only within its territorial limits. If ihe 
District Court had power by a mortgage decree in this 
action to bind the defendant and his prope'-ty situate in 
another part of the Island, it is idle to argue that defendant's 
manager might disregard an Injunction in regard to that 
very property, which admitedly bound the defendant him« 
self. Had it been shown that the Injunction was totally 
▼oid for lack of jurisdiction to issue i , then indeed might 
the whole world have meddled with the estate with iai« 
punity. Shatvs Case (2) decided that the District Court 
had a territorial jurisdicion, which does not preclude the 
existence of other jurisdiction also. 

As to the sentence, what we asked for was cotnmittal till 
Robertson should purge liis contempt. When he had done 
this (perhaps by depositing the value of the Cinchonas up- 
rooted), the Court might accept his apology. An apology 
alone was accepted in the Times case, because the Supreme 
Court could not be said to have sustained any damages^ 
but it would have been different had the offender smashed 
some of the Court furniture, sedente curid. The full value 



(1) II Bcav., 180. I (2) KamaNathan (1861), 



169 

v>'f socb Tarnitare would then have had to be deposited 
before acceptauce of any apology. [ Clarbncb, J.-— Have 
the English cases gone the length of requiring such a party 
to deposit the full value when he has not himself received 
the benefit of it ?] Perhaps not ; but if Bobertson had the 
money realised, be should have tendered it to the Oourb : if 
be had not* that should have been shown by affidavit* 

Browne, in reply— It has not been shown that an injunc. 
lion has binding force outside territorial jurisdiction and on 
a person who is no party to the action. A Court may 
ptinish' breach of its process, but only when committed 
within its territorial limits. The Biscals Ordinance only 
provides for service of lawful orders of the Court outside 
its Kmits. A warrant of execution against this very estate 
would be of no avail unless indorsed by the Judge of the 
Kandy Coart, in whose territorial jurisdiction it is. Had 
MolertsoH refused to appear on the notice to show cause, he 
could not have been arrested without similar indorsement 
on the back of the warrant. As to the benefit of the Gin** 
chonas uprooted, it must be presumed Gow, the defeodant^, 
got it, whose ' manager Robertson was. The bark was put 
in Waverley Store^ which it is proved does not belong to 
Sober tson» 

Cur. adv. vult* 

(8th February). Clarbncb, J.^— The Injunction in this 
case Was issued by the District Judge on the 17th May last, 
and it was served on the defendant, at Forest Creek Estate 
in Dimbula, on the v7th June. The defendant appealed ; 
this Court adjourned the appeal for further affidavit evidence, 
and eventually, on the i8th August, dismissed the appeal. 
la the meantime, on the a6th July and during the next few 
days, the Cinchona on Niihsdale Estate was entirely up^. 
rooted by Mr. Qwatkin, the Superintendent on the estate, 
who acted upon instructions which he had received from 
the defendant and the defendant's manager, the present 
appellant. 

The object of this proceeding undoubtedly was to enable 
the defendant to realise for himself the proceeds of the bark, 
ia order that it might not be available for seizure by the 
plaintifiEs, and to this end, the bark, as soon as harvested, 
was placed in a neighbouring store, belonging, not to Niths* 
dcUe, but to another estate^ It seems» therefore, that this 



,170 

ivas done before the appeal came on for hearing in this 
Court. 

It was, I confess to my surpri^, suggested in argument 
in support of the appeal> that there had been no breach of 
the injunction^ inasmuch as the Injunction forbade coppicing, 
^nd what was done was uprooting. This is an argument 
which may be simply passed over as not requiring any 
further notice. So far as the nature of the act is concerned^ 
a more flagrant violation of the Injunction can hardly be 
imagined. The injunction forbade cutting down to the 
root, and root and all were torn away. The defendant, it 
appears, has left the Island. The plaintiffs, as soon as they 
learned what had happened, moved to commit both defen« 
dant and appellant, Mr. Bobertsojii and the defendant having 
left the Island^ the application was pressed against appeL 
lant. 

It has been contended by appellant that he onght not to 
be committed for breach of this Injunction, for that the In^ 
junction is in itself a mere nullity j that the District Court 
of Colombo had no jurisdietioa to grant the Injunction in the 
matter of land lying outside the district of Colombo* The 
action is brought on a mortgage bond executed in Colombo. 
Consequently, in my opinion, the District Court of Colombo 
had jurisdiction to entertain the action, by virtue of section 
65 of Ordinance 11 of 1868, and incidentally to the action 
had also jurisdiction to issue the Injunction. The defen- 
dant himself appears never to have contested the right of the 
Court in point of jurisdiction, to entertain the action or to 
grant the Injunction. The defendant appealed against the 
Injunction on the contention that the circumstances did not 
warrant it. I may say also that it seems to me questional 
ble whether, the defendant having submitted to the jurisdic- 
tion, this appellant can raise the question of jurisdietioa. 
I need not, however, discuss this, because, in my opinion, 
the Court had jurisdiction to issue the Injunction. The 
jurisdiction of the Court to entertain the action seems to 
carry with it ex necessitate this further power to protect the 
plaintiffs interest, if necessary, by an Injunction to restrain 
the defendant and his agents from acts on the land. 

The only remaining question is the question of fact, 
whether this appellant, knowing of the Injunction, has vio^ 
lated it. Appellant lives some ao miles from Nithsdale 
Estate, and was not himself present when the Cinchona 
was uprooted 3 but if, knowing of the Injunction, he in- 



171 

structed Mr. Owatkm to uproot the Cinchona^ that was 
disobedience of the lojunctioa. And if it appear that the 
appellant has knowingly disobeyed the Inj unction » he cer- 
tainly ought to stand comcnitted to gaol, 1 could not up. 
hold the order as it now stands^ sentencing him to six 
months' simple imprisonment, but I should siitfply order 
him to be committed,, which is the proper order in such a 
case» leaving it to him to purge his contempt and move to 
be discharged. 

Eut before appellant can be commItted> we must be satis^ 
fied> beyond reasooablt; doubt^ that he knew of the In],unction. 
See Ex parte Langley, re Bishop (i). What is proved 
amounts to this : Mr. Gow^ the defendant, was living on 
Forest Creek Estatet some ao miles away from Nithsdale, and 
Mr. Robertson, the appellant, was living on an estate of his 
own, Wotton, about a miles from Forest Creek. Appellant 
managed Nithsdale for the defendant,, the resident super in« 
tendent being Mr* Gwatkin, who has given evidence. Ap" 
pellant, shortly before the 15th July, directed Mr. Gwatkin 
to uproot the Ciucbona on Nithsdale, Thereupon Mr. 
Gwalkin wrote him Several letters, asking whether he was 
*^ legally justified in instructing him to cut the Cinchona,*' 
and whether Mr. Gwatkin would be in any way compro« 
mising himself by carrying out those instructions. Then^ on 
the aoth Ju y, Bobertson wrote to Gwatkin the letter of that 
date, in which he says : ^' 1 enclose aa official letter from 
Mr. Gow re the harvesting of the Cinchona^ as previously 
ordered by me* Tou will please' lose no time (words 
doubly underlined) in carrying out my instructions**' And 
enclosed was a letter from Mr. Gow^ the detendaot^ to Gwat. 
kin^ in which defendant peremptorily ordered Gwatkin to 
carry out the instructions which he h^ received,, adding a 
paragraph evidently intended to convey (what one can 
hardly imagine to have been the case) that his legal advisers 
had advised him that he was justified in what he was doing* 
After that Mr. Gow came to Nithsdale and stayed there 
about a week,, apparently superintending what was being 
done to the Cinchona. Appellant's action in the matter, so 
far as has been made to appear,^ was confined to giving the 
first order to Gwatkin about the 13th fuly, and subse- 
quently writing the letter of July 20. If I were satisfied 
that appellant when he did that much knew of the existence 



(i) L, R., 13 Ch. D., no ; 49 L. J. Bank., i ; 28 W. R., 174* 



172 

of the lojanctioDc^ I should commit bim v but I eanncit 
commit him on the above materials. He has made no 
affidavit denying knowledge of the Injunction, but I do not 
consider that plaintiffs have made out a case calling Cor ao 
affidavit on his part, I was at first impressed with the 
suspicion ^ arising from his employment under the defendanc* 
that he knew of the Injunction ;. but I must have more 
than this before I can commit him to prison. He might 
have been examined in Courts for he attended the District 
Court in obedience to the summons issued to him, and was 
present at the discussion of this application on the 5th 
October, but plainlifis did not think it proper to take that 
step, and so put him to state on oath whether he had any 
and what information about the Injunction. 

I cannot commit appellant to prison » but I think it a 
case in which he ought to pay the costs of the application 
to commit, seeing tha^ his act,, done on behalf of the defen. 
dant,. began the njischief. (Compare Eantxen v. BothschiM 
(a)). Appellant^ust pay the costs of tl|e application in the 
District Court, but as he has to a considerable extent &uc* 
ceeded in appeal, I cannot make hrm pay any appeal costs. 
There will be no costs in appeal. 

I may point out that the plaintiffs seem to have omitted 
the precaution of giving notice of the Injunction on tho 
land itself. 

Committal set aside. 

Proctor for appellant, F, A. Julius, 
Proctor for respondents. A- O, Joseph. 



^oth June, 1882 and i^th February, 1883;. 
Present— De Wet, A. C J., Clabencb and Dias, J J. 
D. C. \ Tantrige Johanna and six others 



S^c r^///a Colombo. } 

^/^ /^^.-^ 79,606. J Tantrige H 



^/^ ^j^f^f^ 70.606. J Tantrige Harmanis, 

A 

Inheritance ab intestate— Co^/a^io«t — Donatio simplex* 

liability of to collation, 

S„ the owner of three lands, conveyed by deed to the defendant,, his 
only son (the youngest of seven children) undivided half. shares of the 

■ - - - --- I !■ II I - I II,, I 

(2) 14 W. R., 96. 



\7S 

}aadSy naarnng to liinisetf *e right of possessinn. so long as he shouJdi 
Ihre. S. having died iutcstate^ the plaiadffs (tiU wife and cbildrcn> 
raised the pfeseot action ta eject the deleiidant from oerUin encroach. 
meats made by htm on the remaining halves of the lands,, which th» 
jrfaintifik claimed to inherit ezclasively, the defendant being unwilling 
to collate the subject matter of his gift,. Defendant claimed,, in addi*. 
tion to the halves gifted to him, an undivided one-fourtcentn of the- 
estate of S» as one of seven childoen of S. 

/2r^that the gift, not having been made in consideration of maniage 
or for other special purpose,, was a donatio simpiex, and as such not 
liable to collation except in two cases, vii. Jtrsty if it was expressly 
made liable to coUaiion ; and second^ if some of the donor's children 
have received dowries, and the djuatio. simplex be given in lieu of a 
dowry. 

Ib^acoMdiogly, that the gift to the defendant was not liable to. 
collation. 

Stmait Perera deceased and his wife Annas the seventh 
plaintififs were married in community of goods and had sii^ 
daughters (represented by the first six plaintifEs) and on© 
son (the youngest child) the defendant. On i8th June 
1874, Simaa Pererf, by deed of gift cdoditioned to takd 
effect in possession after the donor's death,, conveyed to the 
defendant half shares in the three lands which constituted 
the immoveable property of Siman Pereraand his wife Anna^ 
Siman died intestate about February 1 879,. and in October 
of that year the present action was begun. The plaintiffs, 
alleged that defendant was in possession of more than his 
deed of gift gave him, having encroached on the other 
halves of the lands> and was also in the forcible possessioa 
of certain moveables that belonged to the common estace«^ 
The plaintiffs excluded defendant from the inheritance of 
hia father, on the ground that,, defendant having received by 
gift more than his Legitimate share of the inheritance,, he 
€X>uJd not claim to. inherit any portion ab intestato without 
bringing the subject of the gift into collation. The defen" 
dant claimed, in addition to the halves conveyed by the 
deed, one^fourteenth undivided share of Siman s^ estate,, as 
one of his seven children. As regarded the moveables,, 
defendant set up a family arrangement by which they wer^s 
given to him. 

The District Court (O. ^. C. Morgan^ Judge) upheld 
plaintiffs* contention as to the lands, and gave defendant 
judgment only for the shares conveyed by his deed, dismiss-. 
tog his claim to inherit ab intestato, because he was un - 



174 

wtlling to bring the subject-matter of the girt ieto coUatioA. 
PlaiatifEs got judgcneat fot Rs. 75 as the value of th& 
moveables. 

The defendant appealed. 

The case was first argued on 24th March 1882 before 
Clasbngc, A.C. J.^and Dias, J., by Browne for the appel- 
lant and Wendi for the respondents* The case was put oa 
for re*argument before Ds Wbt, A. 0- J., when he should 
arrive in the Islandf and it now came up accordingly. 

Browner for the defendant, appellant. 

FirsU On the question of Collation. The law that should 
govern this case is the Placaat of i j99 (i)* Ey a* Resolu- 
tion of the Governor of Ceylon in Council, dated 23tb 
December i758> the Letters Patent of the Dutch £ast India 
Company (dated loth January i65i) together with the 
documents thereto attached, were forwarded to the Courts 
of the Island " for their g^iidance and due observation/* 
This Flacaai was one of the five anneiures to those Letters 
Patent, the Political Ordinance oi 1580 and the Interpreta' 
tion thereof dated 13th May 1594 being two others. It was 
held by the iSuprerae Court {Sir HarcUnge Giffdrd being 
Chief Justice) in 1822 (a) that the Placaat of 1599 was the 
system of Law in force in the Island, by virtue of the afore** 
said Resolution of the Governor of Ceylon. That Placaat 
repealed the Political Ordinance so far as it concerned a part 
of Holland^ and enacted a different system of Succession. 
[DiAS, J. — That decision was overruled by a subsequent 
case (3) in which it was held that the Political Ordinance 
ought to govern in Ceylon. ] Even if the Ordinance should 
govern, its 29th section enacts that» ^' if children shall have 
received from their parents any estate or effects in dowry 
or donation on account of marriage, or for the purpose of 
aiding them in trade or merchandise, or otherwise, and shall 
on the death of their parents be desirous of sharing in the 
estate equally with the other childern, such children must 
first bring into the common estate all what they had pre^ 
viously received, or the real value thereof. ** Reading this 
section without punctuation, I submit it contemplates only 
gifts on account of marriage, or for the purpose of special 

(1) VanderStraaten's Reports, Appendix, p xvii, 

(2) VanderStraaten*& ReportF,, Appendix, p xxii. 

(3) VanderStiaateu, 172.. 



i 



175 

vssis'ance— in trade) in merohaodise^ or for any other 
special purpose ; and that the words " or otherwise" should 
not be construed as meaning '*any gift whatsoever." All 
gifts of. love or affection such as this, made (after all th») 
daughters had been married and dowried) to the only son> 
with whom the donor was living, would not be such special 
gifts nor liable to collation, but would fall under the general 
rule as laid down byBurge(i): "In the opinion of a 
numerous body of Jurists no collation of such gifts (viz> 
dwiationes simpiices) takes place ; and such may be con- 
sidered as the doctrine of the civil law." [DiAS, J. — The 
Ordinance i j of i875> sect. 39, renders liable to collation 
what children have received over and above their brothers 
and sisters either on occasion of marriage or to advance or 
establish them in life $ but that Ordinance cannot govern 
this case. ] The passage from Fan der Keessel relied on by 
the plaintiffs in the Court below (Thesi- 349) contains a 
very great advance on his text of Grotius {Introduction^ 
Lib. II. chap» xxviii § 14). Gro^iz^5only makes donations, 
which children or grandchildren have received for the 
purposes of their marriage, or to start them in trade or 
business* liable to collation, while l^an der Keessel includes 
even simple donations among those to be collated. [ He 
proceeded to read, as part of his argument on this point, the 
judgment of Mr. Berwick, District Judge, in D, 0. Colombo 
Testamentary No. 3,567 (2). ] 

Secondly, On the merits^ as regards the lands, the defen*" 
dant is entitled to all within the boundaries which he his 
proved to have existed at the date of the gift to him. 
[Clabbnce, J. — You cannot contradict your deed, which 
gives you a half irrespective of any boundaries ]. Then, the 
plaintiffs have alleged a specific ouster which they should 
prove* The evidence shows that the defendant only con* 
tinaed to possess what he had cultivated during the father's 
life time. In respect of the moveables^ the District Judge 
has found they were of the value of Rs. 75, and not Rs. 394 
as plaintiffs alleged, and he has adopted the defendant's 
list, except as to one item of Rs. i j. When the plaintiffs 
succeeded as to so small a fraction of their claim, they 
should not have had costs. 



(1) Colmial and Foreign Law, vol. 4, p 680. 

(2) See Appeodix F. 



176 

Wendl {Brito with him) for the plainliffs> Tespondents^ 
^contra* 

firstt As to Oollation. It is x:lear from the 29th section 

of the Political Ordinance that, as a rule> even simple dona« 

tioos are liable to collation when children divide an inherit* 

ance with a surviving parent. If the words of the Ordi* 

nance itself admit of any doubt, there is the authoritative 

iuterpretatiOQ put upon them by Van der Keessd (Thesis 

349) which, he says, is rendered accessary by the whole 

analogy of the Roman^Dutch Law. It was to be expected 

that Van der KeesseVs Commentary (which was published 

in the year 1800) should contain an advance on his text of 

Orotiust who wrote in i620> for to bring the Iniroductioh 

up to the present state of the law was the object of the 

Select Theses of Van der KeesseL As to Burge, he professes 

to give the doctrine of the pure Civil Law. By that lavir 

there was no collation whatever with a surviving parent, aud 

such collation was a provision of Statute Law, viz, of the 

Political Ordinance {i). Again, even assuming that as a 

general rule donationes simplices are not liable to collation, 

yet there are two cases in which they are^ vis. (a) when this 

condition has been expressly attached to the gift by the 

donor ; and {b) when some of the donor's children have 

received dowries or donations in coniemplation of marriage, 

and others simple donations — the gift in the latter case 

partaking of the nature of one ob causam accepta and so 

liable to be collated (2). The defendant hashimselt proved 

that his six sisters had been married out previously to this 

gift and had received dowries, the shares of land given to 

the defendant being an analogous gift and so bound to be 

collated, as ia / oefs second exception to the rule. Coo^ 

sidering the very purpose of collation, viz., the prevention of 

inequality among the shares of the children, it is clear the 

present donations should be collated, as the property donated 

amounts to an entire half of all the father's estate- [ Da 

• WsT, A. C.J. — That argument would apply in the state of 

the law in the time of Vbett when the principle of '' legiti.» 

mate portion'* was in force ; but my brother Dias points out 

that by Ordinance 21 of 184.4 that principle was abolished 

in Ceylon, as it has been lately at the Cape- ] That Ordi. 

nance contemplates only testamentary dispositions. Besides, 

even in the time of Voet, a father could work a great in* 

(i) Van Leeuwen, Cens, For., pt. 1, lib. 3, cap. 13, § 2i« 
(2) Vocty ad Pand,j zzxvii. 6. 13. 



177 

wjuaHly among his children, by saving to each his «' legiii- 
male portion" (which was but a fraction of his estate) and 
giving the bulk of his property to one child, which that child 
might liave refused to collate. Further, collation has never 
been. compulsory in all cases, but only where the donee 
wishes to take a share by inheritance in addition to the gift. 
The defendant here may keep his simple donations, provided 
he does not claim the additional one-fourteenth by inheri- 
tance. The very magnitude of the gift would raise a pre* 
stimption that the father intended to exclude inheritance by 
defendant. The judgnient of Mr. Berwick cited lays down 
that collation of all considerable gifts, except, where specially 
provided otherwise, is the rule of the Roman-Dutch, as of 
the Scotch, Law. 

Secondly y On the Merits --As regards the lands, sufficient 
cause of action has been shown by the proof that the 
defendant is in possession of more than his deed gave hiiii 
and refuses to give up the excess to the plaintiffs. This 
excess is more even than the one-fourteenth share which 
the defendant claims. Though the Judge has partly adopt- 
ed defendant's list of the 7/iaveahles he has not accepted it 
altogether ; and further the main cause of dispute was the 
land, and the plaintiffs having succeeded on that issue are 
entitled to their custs. 

Cur- adv' vuU. 

(13th February, 1883). Present— Clarence, J. The 
following judgments were read :— 

De Wet, A. C. J.— From the pleadings and evidence in 
this case it appears that the father of the defendant, prior 
to his death which happened in the early part of the year 
1875, donated to the defendant, by deed of gift dated ist 
June 1874, certain properties described and set forth in 
that deed. The questions to be decided are. i. Is the gift 
of the ist June liable to be brought into collation ? 2. Has 
the defendant encroached upon any portion of ground not 
iRcluded in that gift ? 3. Has the defendant taken forci- 
ble possession of the articles enumerated in List W. annexed 
to the libel, forming part of his deceased father's estate. 

With reference to the first question, Yoet {ad Pand., 37. 
6. 13) lays down the law as follows : ** But as the condi- 
tions upon which all things given by a deceased person 
during his life<tiaie to his descendants are oot the same, it 



178 

seems advisable to discuss the chief points with reference to 
the same. That cotlation ought to take place of dowry 
given by parents, and of donatio ante nuptias, is manifest 
from the foHo<ving title> De Dotis Collatione, and there the 
question will be found fully treated of. But with reference 
to the question whether a simple donatio made by parents 
to children ought to be brought into collation, we must 
separate donatio remuneratoria from donatio simplex^ A 
donatio rtmtmeratoria is one which the father confers upon 
his own son, not as his son, nor from common affection^ 
but as being the author of some benefit conferred upon him 
(the father) — that is, a donation which a father would have 
made even to a stranger, if that stranger had conferred upoa 
him the same benefit which the son had conferred upon 
him. For, as the son holds such a donation not as a dona* 
tion bnt upon a different right> and as it cannot be regarded 
as profectitia, but must be regarded rather as adventitia,^^ 
that is, property obtained by design and remarkable service 
•—it seems that collation of such a donation ought in no 
case to be made, as Pinnius following many other author! • 
ties lays down {de Collatione^ ckp. 13, num. ii). fiut con^ 
cerning simple donation itself, it seems necessary to say 
that it is not liable to collation except in two cases, one of 
which is, if the parent who gives attaches to his gift this 
condition, &c. ******* 
Vinnius lays down that, among Zeelanders, Burgundians 
and the French, collation ought to be made of a simple 
donation : but since this does not appear to be received by a 
constant practice by our customs, it is best that we should 
adhere to the principles of the Civil Law, to which view 
the opinion of Van Leeuwen is more inclined. Vide Van 
LeeuweUi Boman^Dutch Law, lib. iii, cap 16, English Trans^ 
lation (1836) p. 309, in which passage for ''single" read 
*' sitnple" gifts, the Dutch words being enkele giften* 

Again in Lybreghts, Redenerend Vertoog over't Notaris 
Ampt (vol* I, cap* 14, num. 8) we find the following laid 
down by that authority. " Simplex donatio, or simple gift» 
is not collated, cum liheri non teneantur conferre ea quce pure 
aique simpliciter Hk a parentibus donatafuerint, nisi parentes 
id expresse jusserint.** 

• Huber, (Heedendaegse Rechtsgeleertheyt, lib. 3, cap. 32, 
sect. 14) lays down the law as follows: *' If parents have 
donated anything to their children from motives of genero^ 
sity, the same need not be collated, and this has reference 



17^ 

to childreo wlio are still in patris potentate z% well as to thosfr 
who have been emancipated (extra patris poiestaiem) y for 
although gifts to children in patris potestate are invalid 
ab iuitio^ still the gifts not having, been revoked are conBrniw. 
ed by death,, so that they enure to the benefit of the chiU 
dren^ as if by virtue of a testameatary disposition, and 
coDseqjuently are not liable to be collated^'* 

Lybreghts also lays down the same proposition^ but adds> 
** Still the difficulty remains how a child will be able to 
prove that this or that has been donated to him or her. The 
safest plan is to be furnished with written proof,'* Jo 
other words^ to avoid the question whether or not donations 
are to be brought into coUation, the donees should, be 
famished with evidence of the donor's intention^ 

In this case there is the deed itself> which clearly sets 
forth the names of the donor and donee^ the subject-matter 
of the gift, and no injunction that the gift should be brought 
ioto collation^ (IP^e Deed of gift). Taking the authorities 
1 have q.noted into consideration, I am of opinion that the 
gift is not liable to be collated^ and that the defendant is 
entitled to the subject-matter of the gift, and also to his 
share of the paternal inheritance as it existed at the date pi 
kis father^s death. 

Looking at the evidence^ it eannot be denied that there 
has been an encroachment — unwittingly,, no doubt— K)n the 
part of the defendant upon the other portions of the lands set 
forth ia the libel. With reference, therefore, to the claim 
as regards the immoveable propsrty^ I am of opinion that 
the defendant is entitled to the portions only marked A ia 
the plans put in at the triaU marked X, Y> Z. 

The evidence does not satisfy me that there has been 4- 
forcible possession by the defendant of the moveables men- 
tioned in the List W.. As vegards the j^ewelry,^ there is su^ 
cient evidence to shew that a valuation was made of them, 
and that the defendant paid to the heirs the value of such 
jewelry. 

The only part of the jpdgment of the District Judge 
which can be sustained is that pact of it iiaving reference 
to the alleged trespass. 

My judgment therefore is for the plaintiffs, Re. i damages 
for the trespass. Defendant is restrained from trespassing 
upon the lands marked 0» B, and E in the plans* X, Y, 2 
put in at the trial ^ and no order will be made as to costs 
in this Court or in the Court below* 



180 

Clarence, J. — In 1874 Siman Perera, the father of 
defendant, gifted by deed to defendant portions, dtescribecf 
in the deed, of three lands named Delgahawatte, Delgaha^ 
owitte, and Potuwile Cumbnre. He died in 18751 intestate^ 
leaving him sorviving children and grandchildren and a 
widow, the mother of his children. 

The present action is brought against defendant by the- 
widow and the representatives of defendant's brothers and 
sisters,, who comptain in substance that defendant has pos. 
sessed himself of more of his kte father's estate than he is 
entitled to. They contend that defendant has encroached 
beyond the boundaries of the gift upon adjoining lands of 
his £ather*Sr that he has forcibly taken possession of certain- 
moveable property, and lastly that he is not entitled to 
participate in the inheritance ab intestato except on the 
terms of bringing into collation that which was conferred 
upon hrm by the gift. 

I see no reason to disapprove of the District Judge's 
finding with regard to the moveable property, or with regard 
to the questions of encroachment. The dv^fendant,. who 
declines to bring into collation anything taken by him under 
the gift* is entitled so far as the gift is concerned to neither 
more nor less than what is described in the gift-deed. I 
think that with regard to Delgahawatte the deed conferred 
on defendant plots A and C as shewn on plan X ; with 
regard to Delgaha-owitte, plot C on plan Y ; and with re- 
gard to Potuwile Cumbure, plot C on plan Z : and for the 
reasons assigned by the District Judge. 

There then remains the question of collation i — whether 
defendant is entitled to participate in the inheritance a^ 
intestato without bringing his gift into coUation. 

It was not disputed on the argument of the appeal, that 
the gift to defendant must be regarded as a donatio simplex. 
For what particular purpose (if any) the gilt was made, or 
what in particular moved the defendant's lather to make 
the gift, we do not know. We only know that the gift 
was made, with the intention, apparently,, that the donor 
should continue to enjoy the land as long as he should live. 

Whether or not donationes simplices are subject to colla« 
tioD, is a question which appears to have been very much 
"debated amongst Roman-Dutch Jurists, la the present 
case the acting District Judge, following a dictum of Van 
der Keessel (Thesis 349), has held that the gift should be 
collated. In a previous case decided by the present Judge 



181 

bf the same Court tin 1876, Mr Berwick held', after a rev tew 
of aathorities^ that a donatio simplex is Dot subject to col la. 
tfOD ; but held farther* that ta the absence of all evidence- 
a considerable gift given by a parent to a child should be 
presumed to be given ton^uom datii porlionem constituens< 
We have now to decide in appeal. 

The conflict of opinion among Roman-Dutch Jurists, is 
considerable. Voei. (37. 6 13) after stating that dowry 
and marriage gifts must be collated* and that donattones- 
remuneratorue need noty proceeds to deal with the donatio, 
simplex, and states his own opinion as follows :— 
** Dicendum videtur earn non. nisi duohus in casibus collationp 
ebnoxittm esse.** He then states those two case to be as 
follows :^(i) When the parent in making the gift has said 
so (i. e. that there is to be collation) y and (2) when some of 
the children have received dowries or marriage gifts> which 
kave to be collated, and the oiher children simple donations 
only }. in which case, Voei says, the simple donations are 
also to be collated, in order to prevent inequality. 

As I read sect. 39 of the Political Ordinance of 158a 
(Translation appended to Vandersiraaten's Reports,) nothing 
is- there laid down to the contrary. 

We were also referred, as authority against the collation* 
to Surge (vol* 4^ p. 680). Mr. JJfendty on the other hand» 
relied on Van Leeuwen {Cens. for. 9 3. 13. ^^ et seqq.) and 
the passage above cited from Van der KeesseL 

Mackeldeius, Sy sterna Juris Romani hodie Usitati, art. 696, 
states the rule muth as Voet states it. 

The Acting Chief Jxtsticb* whose opinion I have had 
the advantage of perusing, cites further Dutch authorities ia 
favor of the non^collation. 

The distinctmn between a donatio simplex and a gift mad& 
on marriage or for advancement in business is, I suppose, 
that the latter is assumed to be merely ao anticipation* 
prompted by the e&igence of circumstances, of the child^ii 
presumptiive share, and the former, for lack of any such 
€X>nsideration, is asstuned to be a pure and simple bonus to 
the recipie&t. 

I admit that the point is one of considerable difficulty, 
but upon the best consideration which I am able to give it^ 
the position taken by Voet — that a donatio simplex need not 
be collated— commends itself to me as the true one.. On 
this point, therefore, I agree with the Acting Chief Justick 
that the judgment of the District Court most be set aside. 



» 



162 

On the questions of fact> as I have already said, I do not 
roy way to iDterferiag with the decision o£ the Distriet 
Court. 

The decree in appeaU according to my viewi should these^ 
fore be :— 

Set aside the ^^udgmen^ appealed against*. 

« Decree that plaintiff^ a*e entitled to. 

plot B in Survey X 
plots Ai B 9> / 
plots Af B >, Z 
and that dejendant is entitled to^ 
plots A, C in Survey X 
plot » >, Y 

plot C yf. 99 Z. 

Parties to hear their own costs in each: Courts 

DiAS, J. — I bad the advantage of reading the opinions of 
the Acting Chief Justice and of my brother GlaabncjI^. 
and as I take the same view as they do on the question of 
collation, it is unnecessary that I should say anything more; 
on that part of the case. In all other respects the ijidgmenb 
of the District Court appears to me to be right, and I have- 
no objection to the decree formulated by my brother Cla^ 
B£DGB» Parties will pay their own costs in both Courts. 

Set aside. Decree in a^eal as formulated, % 
Clarbncbi J* 

Proctor for appellant, W- P. Ranesinghe. * 
Proctor foff respondents* ^ames de Liveroi, 



%2nd Felruavy and jst March, 1883^ 
Present — Claeence, J.. 

C. R. \ W. G. Hali 
Colombo, > V. 

33>634* ^ Bastian Appoohamy. 

Fiscals Ordinance, No, 4 of i857, sect 4S^Sale of mov&^ 
able property over £7s^ ** value -^ Fiscal* s commission. 

Held, that the words '• when the proceeds do not exceed the sum of 
seven iiundrcd and ftfty jwunds sterling" in sect. 48 of tbe FiacaU 



f 



188 

^Of9ifia7tee, i8'67, ftpplkd oitily to the proceeds ol the sale nf inimovea. 
ble pioDcrty, and did not aSect the rate chargeable by the Fiscal on th^ 
proceeds of the sale of moveables, 

» 

The foUowiQg Special Case was submitted to the Court 
^f EefuestSs Clolombo, for decisioa. 

I. The present defendant, being the execution-creditor 
«ad hdder of writ in the suit No. 81,760 of the District 
Court of Colombo, caused the plaintiff as Fiscal to sell on 
5rd October, i88a> by public auction under the said writ 
"Certain moveable property* to wit, an incomplete ship in the 
Colombo Roadstead, belonging to the execution-debtor, 

a. At the said sale the defendant became the purchaser 
t>f the said moveable property for Rs. 8,ioo. 

3. The plaintiff as Fiscal is entitled to recover from the 

•defendant a certain fee* in terms of the 48th section of 

Ordinance No. 4 of 1867, on the proceeds. That part of 

the said section which governs the present case runs thus : 

The Fiscal or Deputy Fiscal shall charge a fee of three per cent, oa 
tbe proceeds actuallj recovered and return thereof made to the Court in 
lespcd of every saie and resale of moveable property, and two per cent« 
on the proceeds of sale of immoveable property belonging to the debtor 
^ben the proceeds do not ex :eed the sum of seven hundred and fifty 
pounds steillng. When tbe proceeds exceed that sum, the Fiscal or 
Oepaty Fiscal shall charge a fee of fifteen pounds sterling, and of ten 
shillings for every hunilrel pounds of the proceeds over and above the 
«aid sum of seven hundred and fifty pounds. 

4. The plaintiff claimed as his fee >> under the above 
section Rs. 943 , being at the rate of 3 per cent, on the said 
sum of Rs. 8iioo. 

5* The defencfant disputed the said claim and contended 
that by the afore^recited section, in cases when the proceeds 
of Bale whether of moveable or immoveable property exceed 
^750, the Fiscal could charge only ;f 1 j, aad 10 shillings 
for every £ioq; and calculating at this rate the fee would 
amount to only Rs. 1539 and the defendant paid to plaintiff 
the said sum and refused to pay tbe balance Rs. 90 claimed 
by plaintiff, 

6. The plaintiff on the contrary, urging that the defen^ 
dant's contention would apply only in cases of the sale of 
immoveable property and not to the present case where 
moveable property has been sold^ persists iu claiming the 
balance Rs. 90 from defendant. 

The question to be decided by the Court is whether, in 
cases of the sale of a>oveable property, where the proceeds 
exceed the sum of £7^0, the Fiscal can charge his fee at the 



f 



184 

1pa^e of 3 per cent., or whether he is not hound to charge 
'«)nly;^i5 for ^750, and ten shillings for every hundred 
pounds of the proceeds over and above the sum of £7S'^* 
in the event of the Court deciding that the Fiscal can charge 
at the rate of 3 per cent., then judgment noust be entered «a 
favor of the plaintiff for Bs. 90 and costs of suit. If the 
Court "holds ockerwise. the plaintiff must pay defendant's 
costs* 

The Commissioner (i8>7/usr/) decided as follows : 
Clause 48 runs thus : '< The Fiscal shall charge a fee of 
3 per cent, on the proceeds of the sale of moveable, and 2 
per cent, on proceeds ot sale of immoveable property when 
the pioceeds do not exqeed £7^0 sterling/' Then comes a 
fulUstopy which terminates the sentence. I read this to 
mean that where property is sold. of less value than £jSo a 
fee of 3 per cent- may be charged on the proceeds if the 
property is moveable, and a per cent, if it is immoveable. 
Then follows this sentence : ' when ihe proceeds exceed 
that sum^ — that is to say, if property whether moveable or 
immoveable is sold and its proceeds exceed £]S^ — then a 
lee of ;^ 1 5 shall be charged, with j o shillings for every 
additional ^^100. If the Ordinance meant to exclude 
moveable property from this rule, then there would have 
been special mention of it as in the previous sentence. 
The clause relates to the sale of property, moveable and 
immoveable indiscriminately." 

The plaintiff appealed. 

Nell, D« Q. A., for the plaintiff, appellant^- 
The limiting words ** when the proceeds do not exceed 
the sum of ;f 750 sterling '* attach only to the words imme. 
diately preceding, providing for the sale of immoveable 
property, leaving 3 per cent, to be charged on every sale of 
moveables* The absence of a comma or other stop after the 
words ** belonging to the debtor*' clearly shows this. This 
is the punctuation in the volume declared by the Ordinance 
No. 7 of 1872 to contain the true version of the Ordioances 
up to 1870. When the language of a statute is ambiguous, 
the punctuation is a valuable guide to the meaning of the 
legislature. See remarks of Lord tomilly, M* R., ia 
Barrow v. fFadkin (i). Though there the Roll of Parlia. 



(1) 24 Bcav., 330. 



185 

taent was taken to be the best evidence, it was fonnd 
cinpanctfiilted, and the case was decided on the generkl scope 
of the Act ib question, 13 Geo. 3, c »i, s 3. If we take the 
cooima after the word ** property" as dividing the cl&nM 
fnto two parts» we have the fornaer part of it providing for 
aH sales of moveables, and the latter part for all sales of 
itnitioveables. Again, there is no provision for the resale 
of immoveables. Further, considering the reason for th6 
remuneration, there is more trouble required on the Fiscars 
part in the sale of nlioveables (involving custody, catalogu** 
ifrg, sale in lots, &c.) than of immoveables. The distidctioti 
I contend for seems carried out in sect. 49 too. 

Gremety for the defendant, contra'^ 

The Words *' when the proceeds*' after the folUstop evi^ 
detitly eover the proceeds both of moveable and immoveable 
property. The difference in the present case between (he 
Iwo rates is only Rs. 90 ; but what if the Fiscal had to sell 
A Heaoier worth over ;Cjo,ooo? Is the Fiscal then to 
charge 3 per o6nt. on that sum for what costs so little 
trouble, and to have only a per cent, on the proceeds of a 
coffee estate, where there are the formalities of noitces, ^•• 
Further, half^fees are chargeable on stay of sale of all 
property without distinction of rate. The words of the 
statute are clear, and no ingenuity need be resorted to for 
asoartaintng the intended meaning. 

[During the argument, the copy of the Ordinance in 
question, signed by the Governor and filed in the Supreme 
Coort, was brought into Court, and the learned judge 
remarked that though it agreed with the authorised volume 
in having no stop after the Word *' debtor,*' yet the punctu« 
ation on the whole in that copy was grossly incorrect, there 
being no fnlUstop after the word " sterling*' though the 
following word began with a capital letter.] 

Cur* adv. vidt 

The substance of the following Judgment was delivered 
in Court by Clabbnci, J. on ist March 1883, the written 
Judgment t)eing snbaequenilly handed in* 

Clabbmci, J.— Respondent, being execution creditor in 
a District Court action, issued his writ, under which the 
Fiscal, who is appellant^ seia^d certain moveable property> 



186 

to wit a ship, and sold it under the writ. The |>ropert7 
was bought by respondent at the price of Rs* 8tioo. 

The question which I have iiow to decide is, whether 
upon the true construction of the 48th section of the 
Fiscals Ordinance, 1867, the Fiscal is entitled to charge 
three per cent, on Bs. 8,100 ; or whether he is only entt... 
tied to charge at the rate of £1^ for the £jio plus 10 
shillings per cent, on the surplus over and above that sum. 
That is to saj, the question is> whether the words comment 
cing with line 9, '* when the proceeds exceed that sum the 
Fiscal * * * shall charge a fee of ^ 15 etc.," apply to 
^ales of moveable as well as of immoveable property, or 
whether they apply only to sales of immoveable propertf 
when the proceeds are over >f 750* 

I confess that when the question was first presented to 
me I felt considerable doubt upon the construction of the 
enactmenty so much so that I suggested to Counsel whether 
the point should not be argued before the Full Court* 
Upon consideration of the matter those doubts have beea 
removed^ and as Counsel prefer to have my decision rather 
than delay the matter by a re*argument before the Full 
Court, I will state the coholusion at which I have arrived. 

I have compared the section as printed in the 1874 
Edition of Ceylon Legislative Enactments with the cop/ 
furnished by H. E. the Governor to be filed of record in 
this Court- And 1 find that these two prints of the section 
tally in all respects except on two points of punctuation. 
In the 1874 edition there is no comma before '* when'* in 
line 7* In our copy there is a comma there. In the 1874 
edition there is a full-stop at the end of line 8. la our copy 
there is no f alLstop, but the next line begins with a capital 
letter. This merely shews that the punctuation of the 
enactment as printed in our, which is the original, copy 
has been careless* 

I find that the enactment is taken from the loth section 
of the Rules and Orders of nth July 1840, which were 
repealed by the Ordinance of 1867. Substantively the only 
difference between the enactment, as printed in the Rules 
and Orders (page 124) and as now printed in our copy of 
the Ordinance of 1867, is that in the Bules and Orders, 
after the words '' seven hundred and fifty pounds sterling/* 
there is a semicolon and the word *' but." I do not think 
that this comparison of the original Rales and Orders and 
the two prints of the pi'esent enactment throws much light 



187 

on the question ; but I think it favours the construction at 
vhich I have arrived rather than the contrary one. 

In all three prints the enactment begiipis by declaring that 
the Fiscal is to charjge three per cent, on " every sale" of 
moveable property, and that he is to charge two per cent, 
on the sale of immoveable property when the proceeds do 
oot exceed ^7 50. Now I cannot satisfactorily account for 
the use of the word *' every'* unless it was intended to in- 
clude all sales of moveable property* to whatever amount. 
Read the enactment up to that point, and it implies that all 
sales of moveables* to whatever amount, are to pay three 
per cent. 5 and that sales of immoveables up to £jSo are to 
pay two per cent. There then is something still to be 
provided f on viz. sales of immoveables over ^^750; and 
those are provided for in the next few lines. I believe this 
to be the meaning of this enactment, and that there has 
merely been a little awkwardness in the punctuation and 
the frame of the last part of the clause* The words '' every 
sale * * * of moveable property^' are to my^ mind quite 
inconsistent with the other constraction | and, moreover, 
had it been the intention of the Legislature to give 3 per 
cent, on moveables only up to £j^o it would have been so 
easy to place that meaning beyond doubt by omitting the 
'< every" and beginning the clause after this fashion— ^ 
«* When the proceeds, Ac, do not exceed ;^7 50 the Fiscal 
shall be entitled to charge 3 per cent, on the proceeds of 
moveable property and two per cent, on the proceeds of 
immoveable property, but/' &c. 

There is another consideration which was adverted to in 
argument and which seems to favour the construction which 
I am now putting on the Enactment. It was urged that 
moveable property being in general sold in a number of 
small lots» the sale is more troublesome than a sale of im^ 
moveable property, which would be sold in one lot or at 
most comparatively few lots, and that on that ground the 
Legislature probably intended that all sales of moveables 
should pay a higher rate than sales of immoveables* I 
think that that is so. Doubtless if sales of immoveable 
property were conducted on Conditions of Sale having due 
reference to the execution debtor's title, the task of mana- 
ging such sales would be one requiring far more trouble and 
responsibility than sales of moveables ; but we must consider 
the practice as it exists and has existed, and so far as my 
impression goes, Fiscal's sales of immoveable property are 



188 

not conducted in this country on conditions of sale as, ta 
title. 

As the parlies to this Sfneoial Ca$e» viz, the Fiscal and the 
eyecutioQ creditor who is the purchaser^ desired my opinioQ 
on the point, I have now stated it. I maj, hpweverj observe 
that there is a party interested in the question, viv. th^ 
^xeoqtioQ debtor, who is no party to this qase, and wbQ is 
therefore not ar n^cessitQte boand by the result of the case f 
and I may further observe that the point wovld have beec^ 
|i)or« appropriately raised^ to say the least, in the District 
Court case* Sincei however, the two parties to this appeal 
have been to the trouble and expense of contesting this 
Special Oase» I have thought it right to give my decisign* 

ThQ resnlt is^ that according to the terms of the ^rraoge^ 
ment between appellant and respondentr I find» as hetwecA 
appellant aqd respondent, that appellant is entitled to the 
Ka« 90 mentioned in tbe case, and to his costs of the cas^ 
in both Courts. 

Set a^d6^ 

Proctor for ^. Ha//, U^^ B- Bodrigue. 
Proctor for Bastian, P. CoomaraSwamy* 



m\ w \ m 



a6M S^temler and %^ih Novembert 1^82 and 
j^th March, 1883, 

Present— De Wbt, A. C» J., Clarbngb and DiAs, J J,. 

D. C. 'J F. W. Nbatb Sc SSec Izh 
Kandy^ > v. 

i^^ij.* M^ia DB Abrbw Haminey. 

8erv^^de ne Inn^inibos of&cisitur^'Aeguisition by prescript 
tm p(ww#fio«^Jnris quasi possessjo— r«PW ytarsi* uninter^ 
rupM enj^mtnt-^Ordinance 8 ^i934» ^^^^ ^-^ Ordinance 
%2 of iS] 1 9 sect' ^'^Kandyaan Provinces, law in firce £« •<— 
Regulation 13 of iSnz^Ordinanfe j 0^1852, se^t. 5. 

Pi»inti9 and defendant owned adjoining lands. Plaintiff's hoase 
^tood clqse to the boundary^ and bis sitting-room and bed- room had 
windows looking out on defendant's land, through which plaintiff baci 
for over ten years uniqlerraptedly enioyod light and air* Defendant 
began to build on her own land so as to shut oat soch light and air 
from plaintiff's windows, and plaintiff sought an injunaion to restraia 
her from ao doing. 



i 



189 

J7«2c^ th^t the. senitode claimed by the plaintiff (ne IttminiH^ •fficia* 
fvr), being a negative servitude, coOld not, under the Roman Dutch 
Law, be acquired by prescriptioB in virtue of bare enjoyment for the 
iMcesqary p«iod» 9Uflb «o]oyiiMok ii|vol%t9g bo tnvasioQ of the «cigh« 
l^oor's dominium. 

The Regulation 13 of 1823 repealed "all laws heretofore enacted or 
customs exbting" in the maritime districts of the Island ** with respect 
to the acquiring of rights or the barring of civil actions by prescription'*; 
Had this npoal was kept alive by the subsequeot QrdinanoBS, 8 of 1834 
^nd 33 of 1871. Ordinance 5 of 1852, sect 5^ provided that, on a 
^asus omissus arising in the Kandyan Provinces, resort should be had 
to the law on the sul^ect in force in the maritime provinces* 

Held, that ooeseguently the Roman Dutch Law on the tubjeot of 
piescriptbn was in effect repealed for the Kandyan Country also. 

There bciiig BQ local K&ady%n law on the subjeot of presaiption, and 
the ca89 thcrSofC f^ioff under OrdioanoB 8 of 1834 or Ordinaooe 92 
of i87i» 

field, (following C. R. Point Pedro 41 |^i), that ten years' enjoyment 
of the use, convenience or advaakagc, whien would be enjoyed by tho 
owner of the dominant tenement if there were a servitude in existence,. 
biiagt the corresponding servitude into existence, by virtue of sect. 3 of 
OnlioanoeS of 183^ (correspondbg to sect* 3 of Ordinance 33 of 1871)^ 
and that the plaintiff, haviug bad the uninterrupted enjoyment (without 
express permission or lioence> of these window^lights, deriving light 
fcon defendant's Un4» was entitled to have the defendant restiained hy 
IMVpqtD^l injunction fioQi bailding so as to obscure them. 

Cn iS. Foi^ Pedro 41 (i) disfcatqd from by Clarkncs, J. 

The libel,, which was filed in January 1882, alleged that 
^ plaintiff* as partner of J. N, D'Esterre, the owner of a 
land csUled Dewategahamulahena, had been in the possession 
of* and h^d resided in the building oni the said land^ since 
October i^jo. Thai the said building contained a drawing* 
roQ^i, and • bed>rQom» each of which obtained air and light 
Ihroogh a window from the open and vacant ground on the 
S,W, side, which op^ n^round formed pare of a land belbng^ 
inj to and in the possession of D. H. Fonseka, the defen* 
dant's late husband. That plaiatifif became sole owner on 
7th June, 1877, and had enjoyed for a period of 10 years 
^ the light and air that came into his drawing«room. 
That the defendant who had succeeded her husband in 
possession, wrongfully intending to injure the plaintiff and 
to deprive him of the use of the said window, had laid the 
foundation of a wall to be erected at a distance of 3^ feet 
from the S. W. wall of plaintiff's dwelling house, and had 
continued to build the said wall, which had attained the 
height of 4 feet, to the plaintiff's damage of Rs. 4,800. 
The libel concluded wirh a prayer for a declaration of title 

(i) RamaNathan, 1860-62, 75* 



190 

to the free and unrestricted enjoymeiit of tight and air» and 
for damages^ and for an ad interim injunctioo. 

The answer denied the prescriptive enjoyment of lo 
years, and denied that such enjoyment conferred any right 
on plaintiff, and put the alleged trespass in issue, justifying^ 
the building as on the defendant's own land. The defen^ 
dant prayed for a dismissal of plaintiff's suit and for a 
decree for Bs. 500 damages caused to the defendant's wall 
by plaintifE pulling down a part thereof, and for a dissolur 
tion of the ad interim injunction granted by the Court* 

.At the hearing in the Court below VanLangenherg and 
Eaion appeared for the plaintiff, and Beven for the defend*" 
ant. After evidence heard on both sides the District Judge 
{Lawrie) (;ave the following judgment : 

It forms no part of the defendant's case to deny that the 
building which she intends to erect will interrupt the en- 
trance of light and. air into two of the plaintiff's rooms. 8he 
may admit to the fullest extent every word which the plains 
tiff and his witness have said. But " it often happens itk 
the ordinary proceedings of life that a man may lawfully 
use his own property so as to cause damage to his neigh- 
bour which is not injuriosum, or he may, while pursuing 
the reasonable exercise of an established right* casually 
cause an injury, which the law will regard as a misfortune 
merely,, and for which the party from whose act it proceeds 
will be liable neither at law nor in the forum of conscience*'' 
(Broom's Legal Maxims, 197). One of the illustrations 
which broom gives of this is, ^ 80 a man may lawfully 
build a wall on his own ground in such a manner as to 
obstruct the lights of his neighbour, who may not have 
acquired a right to them by grant or adverse possession. H^ 
may obstruct the prospect from his neighbour's house." 

The question for decision here is. Has the plaintifT 
acquired a right to prevent the defendant from building up 
to the boundary of her own land I It is not said that the 
plaintiff has asseried such a right except by having windows 
in his own house, nor is it said that the defendant has done 
anything which infers her acquiescence in the acquisitioa 
by the plaintiff of such a right, except that she has not 
until now built on her own ground* 

I am of opinion that the mere circumstance of having 
made no objection to his having opened these windows does 
not infer acquiescence by the defendant, nor confer on the 



191 

plaintiff a right to prevent her making full use of her own 
property. 

I have not been referred to any passages in writers on 
&omaa»Dutch Law which support the plainti£E*s contention. 
The defendant's Counsel referred me to Grotius, II. 34, 22, 
33 (Herbert's Translation, p* 209). " Window right, that 
is a right to have a window looking over another's ground, 
and confers a right of free lighc or jus lummihus non offidendi 

But the sufferance of a window which overlooks 

the land does not of itself and without other aid afford proof 
of servitude." I have looked at Yoet's Oommentary, VIII, 
A. io» 1 1. I find nothing there which shows that the seryi« 
tnde fu luminibus officiatur can be acquired by the mere 
existence of windows overlooking another's ground. For. 
merly by the law of England the acquisition of this servi- 
tude after immemorial enjoyment rested on a presumption 
of a lost grant. There is no such ground here, but on 
such a question as this the old Common Law of England is 
not of authority in this Colony. Even that Common Law 
••in the words of Colbbidok, J., in TruscoU v Merchant 
Tailon^ Company (i)— has been simpiitied and almost 
•* new.found" by the Act 2 and 3 Will. 4 c, 7 r. Lord 
WaSTBTTBY in Tapling v. ^ones (2) says, ** The right to 
what is called * an ancient light' now depends upon positive 
enactment. It is matter juri; podlivi, and does not require, 
and therefore ought not to be rested on, any presumption 
of grant or fiction of a licence having been obtained from 
the adjoining proprietor." That Act of Parliament, 2 and 3 
Will. 4 c. 7 1, is of course not law here. By it nothing but 
20 years' enjoyment of light gives prescriptive right to it. 
Of the English cases there are, certainly, some which sup.* 
port the plaintiff's contention, while others favour the 
defendant's, and of the latter I refer to the reasoning in fPebb 
y. Bird (3) and Chasemore v. Bichards (4). But at the same 
time I hold that the law of England has nothing to do with 
this class of cases in Ceylon. By the law of Scotland, 
founded on Roman Law — therefore here of more weight 
than English Law — the acquisition of this servitude depend, 
ed on a presumed grant, and by that Law (see Stair 2. 7. 9 ^ 
'Ersk'me^a Insliiutes 2. 9. 10 1 Bell's Principles^ §§ 994-1005), 

(1) If Ex., 863; 25 L. J. Ex., 173. 
(») 34 ^- J- C, P., 344- 

(3) 13 C. B., N. S., 841 ; 31 L. J. C. P., 335. 

(4) 7 H. L. Cas., 349. 



192 

t)ie mere circumstaoce of having niade no objection to a 
neighbouring proprietor openiog a window will not in£^ra 
grant of servitode of light or prospect. I have not fbood 
any case in oor local Reports in which the qnesdoo as fe* 
how the servitude ne luminibus officmiur can be dcqnii^d is 
discussed. I am of opinion that by our Prescription Oi-di*^ 
nance* either 8 of 1834 ^i* ^^ ^^ ^^1"^% ^<^ ^^^ ^^ acquire A 
right in or over his neighbour's land merely by exercising 
ordinary acts of ownership over hi^ own land. To confer 
a right by prescription, there must be possession by the 
person asserting the right. 1 have read carefully the 
judgment ,of Sir Edward Creasy in 0. JB. Pom^ JPcrifa 41^ 
(6)> where he discusses the posiessio or juris quasi possessup 
of servitudes. It is, I think, a fair inference from that 
judgttient to hold thdt there must be the exerdse of a 
jus in re, something dofte tmtr to the subject over ^htch the 
servitude is claimed. Inhere must be actual enjoyment, not 
a mere claim of title, an abstract right. There Sir Edward 
Creasy defined *' possession" when applied in legal language 
to a servitude, such as the jus itbieris, to be *' the exercise 
of a jus in re with the animus of using it as your own, as of 
right, not by mefe force or by stealth, and not as a matter 
of favor, nee iw, ntc clam, nee precario,** 

I am of opinion that the plaintiff has no right to prevent 
defendant from building on her land, that the injunctioa 
should be repealled, and that the action should be dismissed 
with costs. 

The plaintiff appealed, and the appeal was argued on 26th 
September i88a, before Clabbhob and Dias, J J. 

Van Langenlergi for the plaintiff—* 

1. There is such a servitude as that contended for, 
though this appears to have been doubted in the court 
below. Henry's Van DerLinden, p. 169. [Grcnier— I 
admit that such a servitude is known to our law, but I deny 
its acquisition in the present instance*] 

2. As to acquisition by prescriptive possession. Ordi« 
naDce No. 8 of j 8 ^ must govern this case* Do servitudes 
come under the " immoveable property," for the prescrip- 
tive acquisition of which in 10 years sect. 2 provides ? 
The interpretation clause of the later Ordinance (22 of 
1871) includes servitudes and easements in ** immoveable 



(6) RamaNath^o, 1860-62, 75. 



|5TopeTty,'* die term of prescription being lo years. Il has 
been held that right of way is ^ immoveable property/* 
tinder the old Ordinance. C, M. Point Fedro 41 (i). ** By 
parity of reasoning, all easements and servitudes that issue 
out of lands are immoveable property under the Ordinance/' 
(s). 80 a person may> through enjoying the right unin« 
terruptedly for 10 years, acquire the servitude of having his 
tree overhang his neighbour's ground. C. B, Colombo 
39>97^ (3). As to English Law, Stmght v. Bum (4), 
though that Law is entirely different from the Roman 
Dutch on this point. It is proved that the lights in ques- 
tion existed uninterruptedly for over 11 years 3 so that the 
title by prescription is made out. 

Or enter ^ for the defendant, contra -^ 

Thiefe is a difference between the possession of corpo- 
real and of incorporeal property, and the term juris quasi 
possesiio was invented to cover the latter case. Further, as 
there must be the traditio of immoveable property before a 
vendee can sue a third party in ejectment, so there must 
also be the quasi traditio of a servitude before it can be 
acquired by possession, which differs in its character in the 
case of a positive as distinguished from a negative servi« 
tude. '* Modern writers on Roman Law are much divided 
in opinion whether servitudes were really constituted paction 
nihus et stipulationibus, by agreements and stipulations 
alone, or whether we are always to understand that, to 
perfect the title, what is termed quasi traditio wa$ necessary. 
That is, whether, as traditio was necessary to transfer the 
property in a corporeal thing, so it was necessary, in order 
to transfer the property in an incorporeal thing, that th^ 
person to whom it was transferred should be placed in th^ 
legal quasi^ossession of his right. If the servitude was a 
positive one, it is very easy to see how this quasi-possession 
could be established ; for directly the right was exercised 
with the animus possidendi, and permitted to be so exer^i 
cised by the owner of the res serviens, the person in favour 
of whom the i^ervitude was constituted would have the 
quasi-possession. But when the servitude was a tiegative 
one, when the owner of the res serviens was merely bound 
not to do something, the only evident mode by which poss- 
ession could be said to be gained was, when the owner of 

(i) RamaNathar, iS6o'62, 75. J (3) RamaNathap, 1863-68, 234. 
(2) a Thomson, Instit,^ )82. | (4) t. R,; 5 Ch, App.| i6j. 



194 

the res dominans successfully resisted an attempt of the 
owner of the res sermens to do the thing which he was 
bound by the servitude not to do... On the whole, it seems 
the better opinion that quasi-tradition was a necessary part 
of the constitution of a servitude" (i). •• The possession 
of negative easements may be acquired in two ways— by 
adverse user, and by legal title ; i. e,» ist, by resistance to 
the attempt to obstruct the user ; 2od, by any juridical pro« 
ceeding, which in iis form is capable of transferring the 
right ot easement." (2) [Glarbncb, J. — Under the English 
Law mere enjoyment uninterruptedly for 20 years confers 
title. You contend that by our Law here there must in 
addition be something active done by the owner of the 
dominant tenement.] Yes. If, for instance* the defendant 
put up a screen, which plaintifiE removed, and defendant 
desisted from further interruption, there would be the 
necessary action on the part of the claimant of the servi- 
tude. [Clar£NCS, J. — That may be the Otvil Law» but 
it seems inequitable that a man who has enjoyed a light for 
an indefinite length of time should be deprived of it for 
want of the quasi iraditio, ] In Bnglandi Act 2 and 3 Will. 
4 c. 7 1 expressly says that 20 years* continuous enjoyment 
is sufficient to vest title. Section 3 of that Act enacts 
« that when the access and use of light to and from any 
dwelling house, workshop or other building shall have been 
actually enjoyed therewith for the full period of 20 years 
without interruption, the right thereto shall be' deemed 
absolute and indefeasible.*' Our Ordinance speaks of 
''adverse possession** and not mere enjoyment, and we 
must resort to our Common Law and not the English Law 
to find what the possession applicable to servitudes is. 
[ Clarence, J.— The Judge in the Point Pedro case holds 
apparently that simple enjoyment would be enough.] Yes, 
but that enjoyment, to afford prescriptive title, must have 
a juridical beginning. In England the practice is to put up 
a screen opposite your neighbour's window, to prevent the 
Statute running. Here we have to interpret '* adverse 
possession." How can a man who builds on bis own land 
be said to act adversely to his neighbour ? [ Clarbncb, J« 
«— Your argument seems to amount to this, that a servitude 
can be acquired by opposition only and not by acquiescence.] 
Not so : rather by acquiescence on the part of the owner of 

(i) Sandars* JuJtiman, 6th Ed., i23. 

\%) Savigny On Fosstssion (Pary's Trans.) 3861 



195 

the res serviens after a successfal resistance by the owner of 
the res dominans to the obstruction of light. If, as in this 
caae, the plaintiff pulled down the defendant's walU 
and the defendant acquiesced for lo years, the plaintiff 
would undoubtedly acquire a servitude by prescription. 
My position is supported by Voet (i). Interim praeter^ 
miitendum hand videtur, non eo solo ijiduci servituHs prce^ 
scrip tionemy quod forte vicinorum unus jure 8uo in re sua longo 
tempore usus non est, ac inde commodum alter vicinu^ percepit* 
Quid eninif si arbores in suo non plantoveritf viridaria non 
Jeceritt altius in suo non (edificaverit, atque ita contigerit, ut 
vidua lumina diutissime remanserint non obscurata, liberiorve 
prospectus haud impeditus ? Ferperam sane vicinus inde sibi 
altius non tollendi, prospectui luminibusve non offidendU servi^ 
tutem asseruerit; cum altius exstruere in suOt et similiafaceref 
res Tnercefacultatis sint, quarum intuitu prcBscriptio probata 
non est; sed omni tempore libertas salua. Voet cites 
Neostadius, who says, Oum enim naturalis htec aeris in 
eulinam perceptio sit facultatis tantum, nullo unquam tempore 
prcescriptionem parere potuit : hoc amplius, quod negativa 
luBC servitus non nisi hominis prtecedentejacto acquiri potuit. 
Factum enim prohibitionis intercessisse oportuit et prceterea 
hukc proMbitioni obtemperatum : quorum neutrum kactenus 
intercessisse vel jaiente actore verum est (2). The light to 
which a man is naturally entitled is the perpendicular li^ht 
of the sun, not the lateral light over another's land, which 
can only be acquired by servitude. [Clarbncb, J.— 'The 
use to which the rooms are put is also an element for con< 
sideration* So a diamond merchant needs more light than 
ordinary for his trade. Then there are cases which deal 
with the right to 45 degrees of light. ] But that is under 
the Metropolitan Buildings Act, and does not apply here. 

VanLangenbergt in reply— The defendant admits 10 
years' possession, but says prescriptive possession should 
originate with some adverse assertive act on the part of the 
plaintiff, such as the bringing of an aclion to remove an 
obstruction to the light. If this argument prevail a servi- 
tude will never be acquired by prescription, for plaintiff 
could not have brought such an action successfully if he had 
not already acquired the right to the light* Had the con« 
templated obstruction been put up within the 10 years, the 

(1) Ad Pand,, viii. 4. 5. (Hoskyns' Trans.) 41. 

(2) Supr, Cur* deeis., decis. 98. 



196 

plaintiif would have had no temedy, bat oar uumterraptecJ 
enjoyment for that period confers on us a right whicb 
cannot now be resisted. 

The case was subsequently (on 29th November) put on 
for reaigument before the full Court (b« Wet, A. C. J., 
CLAREi^cB and Dias, J J.) when Counsel agreed to leave 
the case without further argument , furnishing their lordships 
with copies of the above report of the arguoient. 

Cur. €uiv* vtdL 

(i3th Marchr 1883), Db Wbt, A. C J— the libel ia 
this case alleges that the plaintiff was the -owner of a land 
called Dewetagahamule hena, and while in possession of 
the same had resided in a building in the said land since 
October 1870 y that the building contained a drawing^room^ 
and a bedd^room^ each of which* obtained- air and light 
through a window from the open and vacant ground on the 
8. W. side,, which open ground formed part of the land» 
belonging to and in the possession of D. H . Fonseka, the 
defendant's late husband ^ that pkintiff had enjoyed for a- 
period of 10 years all the light and dir that came to his 
drawing-room y that the defendant wroogfally intending to 
injure the plaintiff and to deprive him of the use of the 
said window, had laid the foundation of a wall to be erected 
at a distance of three and a half feet from the S. W. wall 
of plaintifiE's dwelling- house, and had cootinued to l»uild the 
said wall, which had attained the height of fbur feet,, to thp 
plaintiff^s damage of Rs- 4^800. The libel prayed for a 
declaration of title to the free aod unrestrieted enjoyment 
of light and air^ and. for damages, and for an ad interim 
injunction. 

The answsr denied the prescriptive enjoyment of tea 
years, anid denied that such enjoyment conferred any r^ghfi 
on plaintifiE, and put the alleged trespass in issue,, justifying 
the building as MJta the defendant's own land. The defend- 
ant prayed for a dismissal of plaintiff's suit^ and for a decree 
for Rs. 500 damages caused to the defendant's Wall by 
plarinttff pulling dow'n a part thereof,, and for a dissolutioa 
of the injunction granted by the Court. 

From ihe evidence in this case it is qfuite clear to my^ 
mind that the ob^tructidn complained of will, if proceeded 
with, interrupfthe entrairce df light and air into the fboflis 
of the plaintiff's house as alleged in his libel* That every 



197 

man 4s of right entitled to the enjoyment of light and air is 
clear law^ and it is eq^ually clear that the defendant in this 
case has no legal right to continue the obstruction com- 
plained of. To support these propositions I need only quote 
some few passages from Fa» Leeuwen^ That author^ in his 
work on Roman-Dutch Law, in treating of the right of pro^ 
perty and of urban servitudes^ lays down the following (£d» 
i820> p. 1 06 et seq^i : 

^* All rights to any goods consist either in smy property, 
or in the right of possession. Property is that right which 
appertains to every things whether it he in possession or 
not ; because it may consist of property without possession 
or possession without property : in consequence of whicb^ 
property is distinguished into full and defective property ^^ 
Pull propM*ty is that which any person has, besides the 
right of possession, and also the complete use thereof^ 
l)efective property is when a thing belongs to one person, 
the benefit of which is enjoyed by another (usufruct) \ or in 
which there is some defect^ sa that the proprietor cannot 
fully dispose of it agreeably to his desire (servitudeV* 

In page 189 of the same edition be lays down the folio w^ 
ing:-— 

^' The benefit inferior to usufruct is service, that is, the 
right of prohibiting something beyond or without the oom- 
mon right* or of doing to or in another's house or upon 
another's ground something for his own benefit : for other- 
wise, according to common rtght^ another is at liberty to do 
in or Bpon his own property whatever he pleases, without 
molestation by another. 8ervices> therefore^ are understood 
to be two. fold : commanding y in what belongs to- another f 
laad lugkringy from another in so far as respects one's own 
•property." 

Again' in fpage 192 : '' Services are usually divided into 
iiottte services and raral services, which dtiier from each 
other in- the following respects, viz. all raral services consist 
in doing or sufiEering, whi^le house services consist not only 
in doing or sufEeriog^ but also in an obligation of not doing 
something upon one's own property, which otherwise is 
permitted to be done^ such as not to build higher,, not to 
surround or prevent the lights or to do similar acts. More., 
over^ rural services may from their own nature be done by 
turns and intervals, whereas house services are lasting and 
cottttnnal.*' In page 197 the following is laid down : •' A 
set'Tic^, On account of which a person may not do whatever 



198 

he pleases out of regard for another, consists of impediment 
of building higher* of free light, free prospect ; right of 
opening windows, prohibition of sight, and the like. Im- 
pediment of building higher is that right, by which one 
neighbour may prohibit another from raising his building in 
height, as otherwise according to common right he woutd 
be at liberty to raise the same as high as he pleases eren to 
the hindrance of another, which in some respect agrees 
with the right of haring a free light and includes the ser« 
vice that the light may not be impeded by any higher 
building, by virtue of which it ought to remain so far from 
such lights that the same cannot be shaded by any buildtng 
or trees/* 

Huber (i) lays down the following : 

<* The right that my neighbour shall not build so as to 
obstruct my light. I do not lose it, even though he should 
not so build for jo years, but only if he has built and 
obstructed my light, and I have acquiesced in the same for 
lo years." 

This, amongst many other aothorities» being the law, 
and as I am clear upon the facts as elicited in evidence that 
the building which the defendant intends to erect will in« 
terrupt the entrance of light and air into two of the rooms 
of the plaintiff, I am of opinion that the judgment of the 
District Court should be set aside, and that judgment be 
given in favour of plaintiff restricting the defendant from 
interfering with the plaintiff in his right to the enjoyment 
of light and air as set forth in his libel. The appellant to 
have his costs in this Court as well as ia the Ooart below. 

Clarbncb, J.— In this case the plaintiff, the owner of a 
house iQ Nawalapitiya, seeks a perpetual injunction res* 
training defendant, the owner of the adjoining plot of land, 
from building so as to obscure certain windows in plaintiff's 
house. At the conclusion of the trial the learned District 
Judge dismissed plaintiff's action with costs, and dissolved 
an interim injunction which had been granted. Plaintiff 
appeals* 

The facts are clear. The windows in question have 
existed since 1870. They look out upon defendant's land. 
Up to December 1881 or Januaiy 1889, there was no wall 
on defendant's land within 40 feet of the windows, so that 

(1) Heedendaegse Rtchtsgeleertheyt, Bk. 2, cap. 45, sec. 5, Dutch 
Euilion 1768, p. 294. 



199 

the windows, which are those of sitting-room and bed^rootn, 
enjoyed a free access of light. In December 1881 or January 
1882, defendant began building a wall in front of the win« 
dowsy at a distance of about three and a half feet. The evi- 
dence satisfies nne that the building of this wall, which at the 
date of the trial had been built to a height of 8 feet, must 
very materially darken the looms in question ; and the sole 
point for decision upon this appeal is, whether or no( plaintiff 
had, at the time when defendant began the building, ac- 
quired a right as against defendant to the window lights 
which he now claims. It is not disputed that for a period 
of more than ten years previous to the commencement of 
the obstruction, plaintiff and his predecessors in title had 
enjoyed free access of light and air to the windows in ques^ 
tion from the defendant's ground. Plaintiff contends that 
he had thus acquired by prescription a right to these lights 
as against the owner of the adjoining land. 

What plaintiff thus claims is the servitude ne luminibus 
qfficiatur of the Roman Dutch Law, corresponding to the 
easement of window-light of the English Law. 

There can be no question but that, under the Roman 
Dutch Law a negative servitude such as this is could not 
be acquired by prescription in virtue of bare enjoyment such 
as plaintiff has had in this case. The essential difference 
between the user in the two kinds of servitude, negative 
and positive, is obvious. In the positive kind, such as way 
or path, the user is attended by an actual invasion of the 
neighbour's dominium. Every time I cross my oeighbour's 
land to get to the high-road I commit a trespass against his 
right, and a certain number of years* undisturbed practice 
of so doing conferred under the Boman Dutch Law the 
prescriptive right to do so in perpetuity, creating in fact the 
servitude of right of way. But in the negative right, such 
as window light, the enjoyment is not attended necessarily 
by any invasion of the neighbour's dominium. Yoet (ad 
Pand,, viii. 4. 5) is as distinct as possibly can be in laying 
it down that bare enjoyment will not create the negative 
servitude by prescription ; and he cites from Neostadb 
{Decis» 98) a decided case which is precisely on all fours 
with the present, in which the owner of the windows failed 
to establish his right, although until the neighbour began 
to obstruct them they had remained unobstructed from 
beyond the memory of man. 

This undoubtedly was the Roman Dutch Common Law 



200 

with regard to the •character of the enjoyrDent necessary ia 
order that this servitude mighl be created by prescription. 
The length of the necessary term might of coarse be a 
Qiatter of local legislation. 

It is, however, equally clear that the Roman Dutch Com- 
mon Law on the matter has been swept away by repeal. 
There is no local Kandyan Law on the matter. The Regu« 
lation No« 13 of 1822 repealed '* all laws heretofore enacted, 
or customs existing with respect to the acquiring of rights 
or the barring of civil actions by prescription." 1 hat re- 
peal, however, was expressly limited to laws and customs 
enacted or existing ^*wiihin and for the maritime districts of 
this Island,** The repeal was kept alive by the subsequent 
Ordinances of 1834 ^"^ 1871. The 5th section of the 
Ordinance No. 5 of 1852 enacts that *' where there is no 
Kandyan Law or custom having the force of law applicable 
to the decision of any matter or question arising for adjudi. 
cation within the Kandyan Provinces, * * * the Court 
shall in such case have recourse to the law as to the like 
matter or question in force within the maritime provinces, 
which is hereby declared to be the law for the determi.. 
nation of such matter or question." 

Consequently the Roman Dutch Law on the subject of 
prescription is in effect repealed for the Kandyan Country 
also. The only questions then remaining are, whether the 
Ordinance No. 22 of 1871 applies 10 the creation of the 
servitude ne luminibus officiatur ; and, if so, with whalb 
effect? If the Ordinance does not apply, then thete is no 
law in Ceylon under which this servitude can be aoquired 
by prescription. 

In J 8 j8 it was held by this Court (2) that the and 
section of the Ordinance No. 8 of 1834 does not apply to 
servitudes. That was a claim of right of way, and the 
Court, while holding that the Ordinance did not apply to 
servitudes, presumed ^ grant} on account of the immemo« 
rial time throughout which the way seemed to have been 
enjoyed In i860, however, that decision was reviewed by 
Sir Edward Creasy (0. B. Point Pedro 41 (3)), who held ex- 
pressly, overruling the older decision, that the Ordinance 
did apply to the creation of the servitude of right of way. 
The third section of the Ordinance No. 22 ot 1871 re-enacts 
totidem verbis the second section of the Ordinance of 1S34. 

(2) D, C. Colombo 21909, 3 Lorenz, 119. 

(3) RamaNdtban, i860, 75. 



201 

Sir E, Creasy was of opinion that the juris quasi possessio 
spoken of by jurists when dealing with servitudes fell with- 
in the scope of the phrase " possession of immoveable pro^ 
perty'* as employed i<n the Ordinance, and the conclusion of 
the Court was summed up as follows : — " Altogether, the 
Supreme Court has no doubt that the words * possession 
of immoveable property' in the Ordinance may app^y to 
enjoyment of a right of way. There must be actual en- 
joyment, not mere claim of title or abstract right j and the 
Supreme Court may define * possession,* when applied in 
legal language to a servitude, such as the jm* itineris, to be 
the exercise of a jus in re with the animus of using it as 
your own as of right, not by mere force, not by stealth, 
and not as a matter of favour, — nee vi, nee clam, nee 
j^eeario,** 

With unfeigned rospect for the eminent judge who pro^ 
sounced this decision, I am wholly unable to subscribe to 
the reasoning by which the conclusion is arrived at. I 
state my own opinion, of course, with diffidence, when I 
find mysdf obliged to di£fer from the considered opinion of 
a former Chief Justice of this Court. That a servitude is 
immoveable property is indisputable, bat the terms of the 
Enactment appear to me incapable of being by any logical 
process construed so as to e£Eect the creation of property 
of that kind. They appear to me to deal only with pro^ 
perty already in existence at the beginning of the ten years. 
.Until the servitude has somehow been brought into being, 
there is no property in it in any sense whatever : it has no 
existence. And I think that the fallacy in the judgment 
reported in RamaNathan is apparent in the extract which 
I have quoted from that judgment, in the employment of 
the phrase '* the words * possession of immoveable property* 
may apply to enjoyment of a right of way." I think the 
words *' possession of immoveable property" do apply 
to the. enjoyment of a right of way. But the words of the 
Ordinance are '' ten years' possession.'* Now in the case 
decided by Sir £. Creasy no right of way existed during the 
lo years, and therefore none would be enjoyed. The fallacy 
lies in confusing the act of using the way, with the servi** 
tude or right to do so. The servitude once in existence, it 
would DO doubt become, as property, capable of being a 
subject-matter for the Ordinance ; but in my judgment the 
words of the Ordinance cannot reasonably be interpreted as 
applying to the creation of the servitudet It is within my 



202 

recollection that Chief Justice Sir John ^hear felt himself 
unable to construe the Enactment as applying to the crea* 
tion of serritudes- 

The decision reported in RamaNathan has, however, been 
steadily acted upon ever since, so far as concerns rights of 
way ; and that being so, I feel myself bound by it, however 
much I may disapprove of the rcUio decidendi' Beine thea 
so boundi can I for the purposes of the present case distin* 
guish from the case of positive servitudes, like right of way, 
negative servitudes such as that now in question } I am of 
opinion that I cannot. For I take the decision of Sir £. 
Creasy to be, that the ten years* enjoyment of the use, coa^ 
venience or advantage which would be enjoyed by the 
owner of the dominant tenement if there were a servitude 
in existence, brings the corresponding servitude into exis- 
tence, I think the decision wrong, but I consider myself 
bound by it, and being so binding on me, it seems to me to 
apply equally to negative and positive servitudes. 

The result, then, is that the mere uninterrupted enjoy^ 
ment for ten years (not, of course, by express permission or 
licence) of windo weights, deriving light from a neighbour's 
land, entitles the owner of the windows to have the ad- 
joining landowner restrained from building so as to obscure 
them. This in effect places the matter on the same foot» 
ing (with a shorter prescriptive term) as that of the English 
Act 2 & 3 Will, iv c. 71 sect, 4, prior to which juries in 
England used to be allowed to presume a lost grant in the 
existence of which nobody believed* 

Although the result is not one at which I could by my 
own judgment have arrived had the matter been res integra, 
I think it equitable as between man and man, and am 
therefore scarcely disposed to regret the conclusion forced 
upon roe. 

For the foregoing reasons I am of opinion that the deci« 
sion appealed against should be set aside and judgment 
entered for plaintiff, and a perpetual injunction decreed as 
prayed for. I am further of opinion that leave should be 
given to plaintiff to apply to the Court hereafter to assess 
damages, if so advised* Defendant must pay plaintiff's 
costs in lx>th Courts. 

I have had the opportunity of perusing the judgment of 
the Acting Chief Justice, and while I arrive at the same 
conclusion as the Acting Chief Justice, viz., that the plain- 
tiff in this action is entitled to the perpetual injunction 



2oa 

whidi he claiaar> Ida $o on very di£Ferent groands, and { 
cannot part with the case without recording mj res pectf ul^ 
but emphatic, dissent from the view I understand the 
Aqting Chief Justice as enunciating. 

The question for decision in this case is, whether or not 
the plaintiff has, by his ten years' enjoyment of his win* 
dowst acquired by prescription as a servitude the right to 
prevent the defendant^ an adjoining owner, from building 
on defendant*s land so as to obstruct plaintiff's wiDdows, 
The question is— not whether the plaintiff has or has not 
lost through the operation of prescription a servitude pre- 
viously acquired, but whether he has acquired a servitude by 
prescription. With great respect for the present head of 
this Court, I must point out that the mere opening of win- 
dows which derive ^heir light from an adjoining land owned 
by another person does not entitle the owner of the win* 
dows to restrain the adjoining owner from building so as to 
darken them. He may acquire that right in two ways : 
either by express contract, or by prescription* 

DiiLS, J. — [ After setting out the facts.} The Kandyan 
Provinces* or so much of the Island as was not subject to 
the Dutch, were sub|ect to Kaodyan Law,, except so far as 
that Law was repealed or modified by Legislative enactment. 
The first written law on the subject in the Kandyan Pro- 
vinces> so far as 1 can ascertain, is tl&e Prockimation of the 
1 8th September 1819, which only dealt with a certain class 
of actions. This was followed by the Regulation 13 (rf 
1823, which was not confined to any particular province or 
provinces, but was applicable to the whole Island. That 
Regulation was a comprehensive measure. It was not 
confined to actions merely, bat it deak with the acquisition 
of property by prescription. It repealed all written and 
unwritten laws <m the subject in the Maritime Provinces* 
and laid down certain rules applicable to the whole Island. 
The Proclamation of 18 19 seems to have escaped the notice 
of those who framed the Regulation, and that Plroclamation» 
so far as 1 can ascertain, was the only law in force in the 
Kandyan Provinces in 1823. The manifest object of the 
Begnlatioa was to repeal all existing laws and consolidate in 
one enactment all the law written or unwritten on the 
subject of prescription. For some unaccountable reason the 
repealing clause of the Regulation of 1 8a 2 is Confined to 
1^ Maritime Provinces, Probably there was not at tlib 



204 

date of the Begalation. or the framers of it thoaght there 
was not, any law or costom in the Kaodjan Provinces oo 
the subject of prescription* and they seem to have lost sight 
of the Proclamation of the 1 8th September 1 819, which > 
however, was expressly repealed by the Ordinance 8 of i834. 
So far as I am aware, the Roman Dutch Law or» more 
correctly speaking, so moch of that law as is in force in the 
Maritime Provinces, was, for the first time, iatrodaced into 
the Kaodyan Provinces by the Ordinance 5 of i8j3. Up 
to that time the Common Law of those provinces was the 
Kandyan Law. 1 am not aware of any decision of this 
Court or any other Court in which it was held that tbe 
Dutch Common Law was in force in the Kandyan Provin^. 
ces, and I may refer to the jth clause of the Ordinance 5; 
of 185.2 in support of the opinion that the Dutch Com moo. 
Law was not in force in the Kandyan Provinces. If that 
law was in operation in those provinces in 1852, there was 
no necessity to introduce it as the 5.th clause did. I am 
therefore of opinion that the Dutch Common Law on the 
subject of prescription, or on any otber subject, did not find 
its way into the Kandyan Provinces till 1852, and then only 
so much of it as was law in the Maritime Provinces ; and 
in those Provinces, as I have already pointed out, the 
Roman Dutch Law on the subject of prescription wa» 
abrogated so far back as 1822. 

In deciding the question before us,. I do not think we caa 
go out of the Ordinance 8 of 1834 5 and if the servitude in 
question cannot he brought within the operation of that 
Ordinance, no possession, however long, will give plaintifiT 
the light which. he claims. It was conceded at the argii<* 
menc that the servitude in question falls within the 2nd 
clause of the Ordinance 8 of 1834. ^^' Grenier's argument 
was based on the Boman Dutch Law applicable to the 
acquisition of negative servitudes. If the Roman Dutch 
Law is to govern the case> I have no hesitation in saying 
that the plaintiff has failed to make out his case > but as I 
have already pointed out the Roman Dutch Law on the 
subject is not in force in this Colony. 

I had the advantage of reading the opinions of my lord 
and of my brother Clabbncb, and I am not prepared to 
hold, in the face of a series of decisions to the contrary » 
that servitudes such as this are out of the Ordinance; and I 
think we must take the Ordinance of 1834. as containing all 
the law on the subject of prescription. 



205 

By the ind claase of that Ordiaaace proof of undisturbed 
and uninterrupted possession of immoveable property by 
an adverse title for ten years gives the possessor a right to 
guch imtnoveable property, which^ as has already been 
pointed out. includes real rights or servitudes. Admittedly 
the PIainti£f possessed the light which he claims for more 
than ten years before the interruption complained of,, and 
his possession was not distiu'bed or interrupted by any one. 
Adverse title is defined in the Ordinance as a possession 
unaccompanied by payment of rent or produce or perfor- 
mance of service or duty, or by any other act by the possess- 
or* from which an acknowledgment of a right existing in 
another person may be fairly and naturally inferred. The 
first part of this definition is inapplicable to this case ; and 
it is not suggested that the plaintiff has done any act from 
which an acknowledgment of a right in the defendant or 
any other person may be fairly and naturally inferred.^ I 
therefore think that the plaintiff has established his right by 
prescription, and is entitled to a decree in his favour with 
costs in both Courts* 

Set asides yudgmentfor plaintiffs 

Proctors for the plaintiff, Rarher ^ Eastlake. 
Proctor for the defendant^ E. Beven. 



aSth Felruary and 14M Marck, 1885. 
Present— Db Wet, A. C J. 



. C. Ins. \ 
olombo, > 
I, a 16. J 



D. C. Ins. *) In re Brahmenege Martin us Fbrera 
Colombo] 

" Ex patte H. T. Pbrbra< 



Insolvent — Ordinance J o/'iS^j, sect. 15a — Certificate in 
the form R, 

P., an insolvent, had passed his examination and had his protec- 
tion extended for one month from 23rd November 1880. He applied 
on 30th May 1882 for a certificate of conformity^ but on the day fixed 
for considering it withdrew his application. No further order as to pro^ 
tcction was made. 

Held, that under these circumstances a certificate in the Form R. in 



206 

the Schedule to Ordinanae 7 of 1855 was wrongly tssutd taa proved 
creditor. 

Re r. A. Pieris (1) (oUowed. 

Brahmenege Marttnus Ptrera was adjudicated iosolvent 
00 24th September i88o» od the petition of y, M. Perera* 
The second sitting was closed on ijrd November 18809 
when the insolvent tendered his balance sheet* and his 
protection was extended for one montH. On 2:8th March 
1882, on the motion of the petitioning creditor's proctor ,. 
C. H, Gomes, was appointed Assignee* and he made his 
report on 27th May 1S82 5 and on 30th May* on the 
motion of the Insolvent's proctor, the nth July was fixed 
for the determination of the grant or refusal of certificate*. 
This meeting was adpurned to ^^Xh July, when the appli* 
cation for certificate was wi!;hdrawn. On 6th September 
1882 the Insolvent* by another proctor^ renewed his applica . 
tion for a certificate* and a meeting of creditors for the 
purpose took place on 1 7th October^ when a creditor oppos^ 
ed the granting of a certificate. The grounds of opposition 
lodged not beini; explicit enough^ the meeting was ad« 
journed^ the application of Insolvent's Counsel for a grant 
of certificate forthwith being refused. After another ad|purn« 
ment^ the certificate meeting was fixed for 3,1st October* 
when there was no appearance for the Insolvents On 14th 
November 1882, Counsel for H. T^ Peverat a proved credit 
tor to the extent of Rs. 742, moved that a certificate in the 
Form B. might be granted to him. The insolvent's proctor, 
without contesting the facts on which the motion was 
based* opposed it on the sole ground that the Buolvency 
Ordinance did not give the Court authority to grant it. The 
Court (r. Bgrwkkt Judge) thereupon made the following 
order : 

"The Form R. annexed to the Ordinance is not in harmony with 
section 153 to which it refers.. The Form as given in the Schedule is a 
bare declaration that the Insolvent has not at the time a protection order, 
a state of circumstances which might arise from a thousand causes^ 
independently of any express refusal of protection. But seaion 151^ 
avowedly only deals with the case in which protection has been 
actually refused. la the present case there has been no such refusal*, 
and therefore the Court cannot act under section 15s : in other words, 
caLiinoi under the authority of the Ordinanee gvnt tue oeitificate asked 
for. So far Mr. Pereira^s [the Insolveni'is proctor] argument is right, 
and in what the Court is now about to do it will not act under the 
Ordinance, but will exercise its own discretionary power in making a 
simple declaration of the truth when the ends of justice or the reasona* 

(1) S, C. Civ, Min,, 4th November, 1875^ 



207 

Kble inievesU t)f a party require this to be done. Now it is the truth ^ 
that the InsoHrent has no protection order. This circumstance arises 
from his own act in abstaining^ from talcing out a ctrtificate of con« 
formity. Meanwhile the creditor is remediless. Hdvin^jr proved in the 
«ase, he has %y legislative provision the status of a judgment credi- 
tor of the Insolvent, but in the present condition of matters he can 
neither (in the words of the Dutch proverb) make bis debtor pay in his 
parse nor in his skin ; and if his debtor be not legitimately protecte), 
the creditor should have at least the latter remedy so long as the- 
law tolerates imprisonment for ordinary debt. 

" I do not know or at present say that he will be anything bettered by 
what I am going to do, but at all events he is entitled to the aid of the 
Court in any reasonable effort for that end. Without, therefore, 
committing myself to any opinion as to what may be the lawful 
effect of the fvesent order, I think it reasonable and just at his request 
to certify to a fact, viz. that tbe Insolvent has at present no protection 
order. Tbe Secretary will frame the certificate in the precise words of 
the Schedtile R., because these words will declaie the truth in this case ; 
but as already said tbe declaration will not ptofess to be made under 
the Ordinance." 

The Insolvent appealed, 

BrownCf for the Insolvent, appellant — The Ordinance 
No« 7 of 1853 provides a complete system of Insolvency 
Proceedings, and the Court has no power to deal with sach 
matters outside the provisions of the Ordinance |,De Wbt, 
A. C. J**»But Boni judicis est ampliare jurisdictionem mam ; 
and in construing a statute the Court may place on it such 
a reasonable construction as will give the Court the 
most extensive power. ] The present application was 
made under the Ordinance^ and asked for a certificate 
in the form prescribed by the Ordinance, That form 
of certificate can only be issued in the cases defined by 
section 15a, viz. when the Court has refused the Insolvent 
protection, or has refused or suspended his certificate. 
Neither of these conditions precedent exists here. The 
Supreme Court has held that under these circumstances the 
certificate cannot be granted. D. C. Colombo, Ins., Si J (i). 

Layard, for the applicant creditor, contra^lt was the 
interest of the Insolvent himself to obtain an extension of 
protection) and his failure to do so ought not to be allows 
ed to benefit himself. So, in England, it has been held 
that an adjournment of the Insolvent's examination sine die, 
with protection for two months, and no further order made, 
is a refusal of further protection under the Act of 1849, 

(1) Ptr Ckbasy, C. J., Stewart and Caylby, JJ. Civil Min, of S, 
C, 4th November, 1873. 



208 

on which our Ordinance of 1853 is founded. Er parte 
Starth (i). 

Browne, in reply — The creditor's application here is not 
founded on any allegation of misconduct on the part of the 
Insolvent, while m Ex parte Scar tli the examination was 
adjourned sine die, presumably because such misconduct 
was shown. In the present case the Insolvent has passed 
his examinatioo. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

(14th March). Db Wet, A.. C J. — In this matter it is 
clear from the learned J udge's finding that the Insolvency 
Ordinance did not empower him to grant the certificate 
applied for by the applicant, one of the proved creditors of 
the insolvent estate of appellant. 

As it appears from the proceedings that che certificate of 
conformity of the Insolvent has neither been suspended nor 
refused, nor his protection refused, I hold that in terms of 
the judgment of the Collective Court in case No. 817, 
D . C. Colombo (2) the appeal must be allowed with costs 
to appellant in this Court and in the Court below. 

Appeal allowed. 

Proctors for the Insolvent, y, G. Toussaint ; H- J* C. Pereira. 
Proctor for petitioning creditor, fF- E. Mack. 
Proctor for opposing creditor, y. G. OhlmuS' 



(i) 30 L. T., 12. 

(2) Civ, Min. of 8up, Ct., 4tli November 1873, per Crbasy, C. J., 
St&wart and Caylet, JJ. 



209 

i^th February and ^rd March, 1882* 

Present— Clarbncb, A. C* J.» and Dias, J< 

D. C. ^ C. L. BooAARS 
Calle. [ V. 

4(^,340 J C. L. VanBuurbn. 



Condictio xud^hxii'^ Afoney paid under mistake of law ^» 
Costs — *• Pitting cases in evidence.** 

Sm the owner of a house which he had tnoiigstgcd to A., died, 
having by his will (of which defendant was executor) bequeathed a 
lift -interest in the house to H, Plaintiff entered into occupation of the 
house as lessee of H A. obtained judgment on his mortgage against 
defendant as executor^ and on 8th March 1879 sold the house in exe- 
cution. It was bought by J., who shortly afterwards died. In June 
1879 (plaintifi's lease expiring on 31st July) defendant, as executor, 
demanded of plaintiff Rs. 55 as rent for April and May, threatening 
legal proceedings. Plaintiff paid. Plaintiff was afterwards sued for 
the same amount, in respect of the same occupation, by J.*s represen. 
tativcs, and pleaded his payment to the executor, but was condemned 
to pay the amount and costs. Plaintiff now sought to recover from 
defendant the Rs. 55 plus the costs incurred in the action by J. 'a repre- 
sentatives. 

Held, reversing the decision of the Court below, that plaintiff (having 
paid with full knowledge of the facts, and if anything upon a mistaken 
view of the law) could not recover either the fts. 55 or the costs of the 
former action. 

Observations on the practice of '' putting cases in evidence." 

The defendant in this case appealed against a decree of 
the District Coorc of Galle (^l- H. Roosmalecocq, Judge) 
giving judgment for the plaintiff in terms of his libel. The 
facts are sufficiently disclosed in the judgment of the 
Supreme Court. 

Dfyrnhorst for the defendant, appellant, 
Layard for the plaintiff i respondent* 

Cur, adv* vult. 

(3rd March). The judgment of the Court was this day 
dcliveied by 

Clarence, J.— This is an action to recover back money 
as paid under a mistake. The action is in fact that known 
to the Boman Dutch Law as condictio indebiti. The plead, 
ings on both sides, the plaintiff's especially, are obscured by 
much irrelevant statement and pleading of evidence. The 



^10 

facts, however, as admitted or otherwise established, appear 
to be as follows : 

One Stephens owned a house, which he mortgaged to Dr^ 
Anthoniszy and died, having by his will (of which defendant 
is executor) bequeathed a life interest in the house to Mrs. 
Hilfield^ Plaintiff entered on occupation of the house 
on a lease from Mrs. Hilfield Meanwhile the mort- 
gagee put his mortgage in suit, making the executor 
of the mortgagor defendant, obtained judgment and oq 
the 8th March 1879 sold the house by Fiscal's sale 
in execution of his writ* Plaintiff's tenancy under Mrs, 
Hilfield would not expire until the ist August* The 
house was purchased at the Fiscal*s sale by one ^ansx, 
who shortly afterwards died. In June 1879 defendant in 
his capacity as executor demanded of plaintiff Rs. ^5 for 
use and occupation of the house for the months of April 
and May, threatening legal proceedings. Plaintiff paid. 
Plaintiff was afterwards sued by Jojiszs representatives for 
the same amount in respect of the same months' occupation. 
Plaintiff then pleaded his payment to the executor, but it 
being proved that he had previously received notice of the 
sale in execution, judgment went against him for the amount 
claimed, with costs* Plaintiff now seeks to recover from the 
executor the Rs« 55 which he had paid to the executor, plus 
the costs incurred by the unsuccessful defence of the action 
by yans%*s representatives. Defendant, the executor, ap« 
peals against a judgment of the District Court decreeing him 
to pay the plaintiff both the Rs. 55 and the costs, in all 
Ks. 97*87« Ic was admitted that the decree could not be 
supported as to the costs, but respondent's Counsel coq« 
tended that the decree was right as to the Rs. 55. 

The case is wholly silent as to what passed between the 
executor and Mrs. Hilfield before her dealing with the house 
by way of lease. Apparently the executor assented to her 
dealing with the house. At any rate, the whole of his 
testator's interest in the house having, as he admitted in 
bis Answer, been sold on the 8th March, it does not appear 
that the executor had any right to the Rs. 55 for use and 
occupation in April and May. The question then remains, 
whether plaintiff, having in fact paid the executor, can now 
recover the money back from him as indeUtum solutum- It 
is nowhere averred by plaintiff that his payment to defends 
ant was induced by any misrepresentation as to facts, or 
that plaintiff was in fact ignorant of any of the facts ^ and 



211 

if plaintiff*s paynsent to defendant was due merely to plain- 
tiff's ignorance of law, plaintiff oatinot recover. In facr> so 
far as appearsi plaintiff and defendant may have both been 
under the erroneous impression that defendant had a right to 
the moneyi allhough it would seem that subsequently de. 
fendant handed the money over to Mrs. Hilfidd. Nor does 
it appear that there are any circumstances taking the case 
out of the ordinary rule that money paid with knowledge 
of the facts and under a mistaken view of the law cannot be 
recovered. For all that is shown to have happened is^ that 
defendant caused to t>e sent to plaintiff a <* lawyer's letter^" 
in which defendant's proctor made a demand on plaintiff 
lor the two months' rent on behalf of the defendant,, who is 
described as ^^ executor of the estate of the late J. P. 
Stephen?/' and threatened to sae at law if '^an amicable 
settlement" were not made* Plaintiff thereupon chose ta 
pay, and we fail to' see any ground upon which his action 
to recover back the money can be supported. 

The Supreme Court regrets to find from the District 
Judge's letter of the s6th February that the Galle District 
Ooart still allows *' cases** to be put in evidence^ although 
the impropriety of the practice has been repeatedly pointed 
out by this Court. 

8ei aside,- Action dismissed. 
Costs dvuideijL* 

Proctor for the plaintiff, W. 2). de Vos^ 
Proctor for the defendant, ^. W* L. KeegeL 



^k May and Sih June^ i88a. 
p^scm— Clabbkcb, a. C J»> DiAS and Qrbnur, JJ. 

I>. €• ^ M. G. Lo&UHAM T 

Matara, > ▼• 

30^171. y S. Abbthamt. 

Practice-^ Busband and wife-^Power of wife, who has^ been 
deserted by ber husband, to suejor property constituting the- 
joint estate — Decree. 

As a g«i*-tal role, a maTried woman whose husband is alive cannot 
piq H ain ao afitk>D» but where the husband is absent and has deserted 



212 

his wife, she may commence an action in respect of property forminj^ 
part of ttie joint estate ; but the wife, before she cati proceed with the 
suit, is boaud to sammon the husband and give hiraan opportunity of 
taking up the suit if so disposed. 

The defendant appealed against a jodgment in favour of 
the plaintiff entered np rn the Court below. The facts 
material to the issue decided sufficient^ appear in the judg.* 
ment of the Appellate Court. 

y. Grenier for the defendant, appellant. 
Drieberg for the plaintiffr respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

(8th June)- The judgment of the Court was now de- 
livered by 

DiAS, J. — This is an action by a married woman,, whose 
husband is away somewhere in the Kandyan Provinces, to 
recover damages for an unlawful seizure of the property of 
herself and her hnsband. The defendant denies the plata* 
ti£E's right to the propertjr and the plaintiff's right to main- 
tain the action. The case was tried on 12th January iS82> 
and after hearing the p1ainti£E's evidence, the defendant 
having called none, the learned judge gave plaintiff judg* 
ment^ and we see no reason to think, that he was wrong. 

The principal point made by the appellant's Counsel at 
the hearing was that the plaintiff being a married womai^ 
could not maintain this action. No doubt, as a general ruJe 
a married woman, whose husband is alive, cannot sne third 
parties, but there are exceptions to the rule, and t his case is 
one of the excepted cases. It appears that the plaintiff's 
husband had abandoned her and her children some time ago» 
and that being so, she has a right to defend the common 
estate of herself and her hnsband, in which she has a* large 
interest -, but before she can maintain a a action she is bound 
to summon the husband, giving him an opportunity either 
to take up the suit himself or allow her to go on with the 
case without him. The libel in this case is framed with a 
view to meet the reqairements of the law applicable to a case 
like this. The notice was issued to the husband through 
the Court and served on him on the isth May 1880, 
When this case was argued, the notice itself was not with 
the papers, but it has been since sent op and is to be found 
at the end of the record. The rsturn to the notice is not 



213 

legible*, but the learned judge says it was served, and this i» 
boioe oQt by the joarnal entry of the i2ihMay, i88d (p 3). 
The course adopted in this case by the p^lainti£E is not aa 
unusual one, and has the sanction of Chief Justice Sir 
Charles Marshall (i). 

The judgment of the District Court on the merits is rights 
bat it will have to be amended by the decres being passed 
in favor of the plaintiff in trust for the common estate of 
herself and her husband Balahettige Don Jayan. 



Affirmed^ 



Proctor for the plaintiff^ C. H B. Altendorff\ 
Proctor for the defendant, G. E. Keuneman* 



1 31 A and 2jtk yune, 1882. 

Present— Clabknce and Dias, JJ. 

D. C ^ A. R- L. SiNNAiTA Chbtty and another 
Kundy, > v. 

87*172. J Babanis Appu and another. « 

Mortgage -^Mortgagee's remedy against third parties-^ 
transferees of mortgagor ^ in possession — Pleading -^Conti* 
nuance of mortgage debt -^Merger of mortgage in judgment 
^^Registration — Priority . 

C. and P., on 6th January 1876, mortgaged three pieces of land to 
plaintiffs to secure a debt of Rs. 7,500. Plaiatifi«, on 30th October 
1879, obtained judgment on their mortgage and a mortgagee's decree* 
Plaintiffs sued out execution against the mortgaged property but found 
the defendants *' in possession.*' The defendants had purchased the 
inierest of C. in the mortgaged pro. erty at a sale in execution of a 
money decree obtaiiied by plaintiffs^ in another suit, after the date of 
the mortgage. Plaintiffs now, setting out the above facts, and averring 
that defendants " continued in possession objecting to the plaintiffs 
selling the said lands to satisfy the amount uf the mortgage decree," 
prayed that the lands might be declared executable and liable to be 
sold under plaintiffs' writ in the mortgage suit. 

Htld^ following D. C, Malara 29. 149 (2) that this disclosed a mis* 
conception of plaintiffs' remedy, which should have been to aver and 
establish, as against the mortgagorb' ttansferees, the mortga^^e and 
tbe continuance of the debt, and to pray (not that the lands be declared 
saleable under a previous writ issued against the mortgagors, out) 
that the lands be declared simply executable and saleable as against 
.the transferees. 



(1) JudgmenlSf p 218. | (2) 1 IS. C. C, 80. 



ai4 

As to coniinHance of the debt, the ptatntifis merely averred Ihat tbef 
bad obtained a judgment againi<t the mortg^agors. Defendants did 
not demur, but denied the mottgage. The mortgage was primd faeit^ 
established by the admission in evidence, by consent, of plamti£fs' moit^ 
2;age deed. 

Held, that there wa3 no sufficient averment of the oonUnuance of th« 
debt ; and defeadaots were absolved from the instance, but without 
oosts. 

The facts material to tue decision of this case appear in 
the judgmecit of the Siiipreme Court. 

Canekeraine, for the defendants^ appeUants^ cited D. C^ 
Matara 19,149 ( i)> and Pkkavd v. Seavs (2). 
DomhorH lor the piaititi£E<), respondents. 

Cur. adv^ vuli- 

(27th Jane). The judgment of the Court was no«r 
delivered bj 

Clarence,, J.— This is an action by moitgagees against 
certain parties, not being the mortgagor, who are in poss- 
ession of the mortgaged lands or some of them. The frame 
of plaintiffs*^ action is this :— Plaintiffs aver that by deed 
dattd 6th January 1 a, 6 certain Cm^upe Naden^ and Palaye- 
Naden mortgaged to plaintiffs three several pieces of land, 
to secure a debt of Rs. 7*500 and interest. Plaintiffs then 
avdr that on 25th Ociober 1879 they instftmed an action,. 
No. 83.836, on this mortgage against the mortgagors, and 
on 30th October 1879 obtained a judgment for Rs. T>Soo^ 
interest^ and costs, and a decree declaring the mortgaged 
lands specially bound and executable for the debt. Plain, 
tiffs then go on to aver that they 8«ed out execution, bat 
found present defendants ** in possession"— the libel doe^ 
not in terms say of what, but by inference from the con«* 
text we may gather the meaning to be« that plaintiffs 
attempted to seize the mortgaged lands^ but found therein 
in the possession of defendants. 1 he libel further accounts, 
for defendants' possession by averring that defendants had 
purchased, under another m'Vy is^ued in a case No. 79,^3* 
of the same Couf t, the interest of the said Garupe Naden. 
The libel then, af ler averring that defendants ** continue 
in possession objecting to the plaintiffs selling the said 
lands to satisfy the amount of the said writ," concludes by 
asliing that, the lands in question may be declared executa> 

(1) I S. C.C„8o. I (2) 6 A. & E, 474- 



215 

ble and liable to be sold under plaintiffs* writ in the case 
No. 8i,836, 

This libel in its face discloses a misconoeption of the 
plaintifiEs' remedy. The mortgagor's interest in the land 
having passed to defendants^ plaintiffs* mortgage right still, 
of course, remains; but to enforce this as against defendants 
plaintiffs, as pointed out by the judgment of this Court in 
D. C. Ifa/ara 39,149 (4), have to establish c^e novo their 
mortgage right as against the transferee of the mongagor^* 
interest, quite independently of anything that occurred in 
any suit against the mortgagors. And after averring their 
mortgage, and the continuance of the debt, their prayer 
should be, not to have the land declared saleable under a 
previous writ issued against the mortgagors, but simply to 
have the land declared executable and saleable as against 
the transferees. The writ issued in plaintiffs* previous 
action against the mortgagors would naiurMJly include the 
eosts of that action* which, as it appears to us, plainiiffd 
have no right to recover from the transferees 

Defendants in their answer do not notice this defect in 
the prayer of the libel The matters set up in the answer 
are these :— -Firstly, defendants aver that they are each 
separately, and not jointly, entitled to one of the lands 
in question by purcha^^e under the writ already roen« 
tioned, issued against Garupe Naden, whom they aver 
to have been the owner ^ and they aver that the re« 
maining land out of the three specified in the libel 
'was purchased, not by either of them, but by one Salo^ 
hamy. But defendants do not in their answer base any 
plea, either of misjoinder of themselves or of non-joinder 
of 8al»kamyi on these averments. It would seem, however, 
from the Petition of Appeal, signed by the proctor who 
slso signed the answer, that he intended the answer to be 
construed as setting up a plea of misjoinder. No sach plea, 
however, is maintainable, since the two lands severally 
purchased by the respective defendants having been include 
ed by the original owner in the same mortgage, no reason 
appears why the transferees should not be made parties to 
the same suit. The defendants* answer next denies the 
fact of the mortgage to plaintiffs. This, however, we may 
here remark, has been primd, facie established by the ad« 
fnission in evidence, by consent of parties (as we are inform^ 
ed by the learned District Judge) of plaintiffs' mortgage 



U) 1 S. C, C, 80. 



216 

deed* The answer further pleads a conclusion of law, that 
defendants did no^ take subject to plaintiffs' mortgage 3 but 
DO facts are pleaded as the grounds of that conclusion of 
law. 

Defendants appeal against a decree declaring the two 
lands severally held by the defendants executable for the 
judgment obtained by plaintiffs against the mortgagors* and 
directing that the interest of the mortgag^ors as at the date 
of the mortgage be sold in satisfaction of the jadgment. 

It was argued amongst other matters, by the appellants' 
Counsel, that plaintiffs connot assert their mortgage as 
against these defendants by reason that the writ, in execu« 
tion of which the sale took place at which defendants pur« 
chased, was a wric issued by plaintiffs themselves in the 
action No. 79.231 against Carupe Naien and Falaye ^aden^ 
No formal proof of that fact has been noted, but we may 
assume that fact in defendants' favour. The paper-book of 
No. 79»23t> which appears to have be<n before the learned 
District Judge, seems to indicace such to have been the 
case. Appellants' Counsel then quoted to us the well 
known case of Pickard v- Sears (i). To dispose of this 
contention it is sufficient to observe, that nowhere in this 
case have defendants established or even suggested any 
representation or conduct on the part of plaintiffs, which 
could be held to estop them from setting up their mortgage. 
All we know h, that plaintiffs first, under a writ not issued 
in execution of their mortgage, seizc:d and sold the mort. 
gagors' remaining interest in the land, which was purchased 
by these defe It dants. We do not know at what price defend- 
ants purcbasied 5 and they do not inform us whether or not 
they were aware of the existence of the mortgage. In fact, 
for anything that appears^, defendants may have paid for 
what they bought no more than its fair value, having regard 
to the existing encumbrance. 

It was next contended in appeal that defendants are 
entitled to succeed because their Fiscal's conveyances are 
registered ; and although plaintiffs* mortgage was registered 
before either, appellants' Counsel contended that since the 
date of their judgment against their mortgagors, plaintiffs 
have lost the benefit of their registration, by reason of their 
mortgage being merged in their judgment* This contention, 

(1) 6 A. & E., 474. 



^17 

Iwjwever, ts tyuite antenafble. PlarntJffs' mortgage, if unpaid, 
IS still on foot for the purposes of this suit. 

It was further contended that plaintiffs have not es- 
lablished the existence of their mottgage debt, and this 
^contention nrast be sustained. Plaintiffs in their libel do 
not make any sufficient averment of the existence of the 
mortgage debt, inasmuch as they merely aver that they 
hmve had a jadgmeat against the mortgagors. Defendants 
<did not demur to the libel, but merely denied that the lands 
ever were mortgaged to plaintiffs* The frame of the decree, 
«8 it standi is open to objeclton, but if plaintiffs had dis^ 
tinctly established the existence of their mortgage debt at 
date of institution of this suit, we might perhaps have been 
disposed to give them, under their prayer for further relief, 
a decree declaring the lands liable to be sold In satisfaction 
of plaintiffs' debt and interest, not including any costs of 
plaintiffs* action against their mortgagorSt As the case 
stands, howeveri we think that the best course is to absolve 
•defendants from the instance without costs in either Court. 



S^t aside. 



Proctor for the plaintiffs, Af. C, Sidde Lthbe. 
Proctor for the defendants, Edwin Beven^ 



%Sth arid ^ist March, 1882. 
Present— Cl A RBNCB, A. C. J., and DiAS» J. 
D. C, ^ p. L. R. M. Rambn Chbtty 

^^^y' (j. D HardIb. 

8(5,5ao. J Ex parte Whittall & Co. 

Mortgage "Goffee estate — Mortgage of coffee crop with 
covenant to consign crop to mortgagee for curing, shipment 
and sale — Right of unsecured creditor to seize and sell such 
crop in execution'-^ Preference and concurrence — Moveables t 
right of mortgagee to foUow-^Maxim Mobilia non habept 
sequela m. 

On I St October 1880 plaintiff obtained judgtnent on a cheque against 
the defendant, the owner of a co£Eee estate. On snd October defendant, 
by a deed which was registered withtn one week of its execution, 
'* specially hypothecated, assigned and set over to the appellants, as a 
first charge free from ail encumbrances/' the crop of the estate for the 



218 

season 1 880-8 f, to secure certain advances to be made by appellants 
to defendant, andertaking to consign such crop to appellants for curing, 
shipment and sale, defendant to be credited with the net piroceeds. 
Appellants made certain advances in pursuance of this arrangement. 
7laintif! thereafter issued his writ, seized and sold part of the hypothe- 
cated crop. 

Held, that appellants, having a preferent right of hypothec over the 
coffee, had a right to prevent the plaintiff, who had no such hypothec* 
from selling such coffee in execution of his judgment. 

The coffee having been sold under plaintiff's writ, and the proceeds 
deposited in Court : 

Held, that, as long as the money remained in Court, the appellants 
as hypothecary creditors had a right to be paid thereout the amount of 
their advances in preference to the execution creditor or any others 
claiming concurrence with them. 

In this case Messrs. J^kittall & Go, appealed against an 
order of the District Court of Kandy (A. C* Lawrie, Judge) 
discharging a Rule Nisi which tbej had obtained agaiost 
the plaintifiE and the purchaser of certain coffee sold in 
execution under plaintiff's judgment* calling upon them to 
show cause why the proceeds of such sale should not be 
paid over to appellants. The facts appear at length in the 
judgment of the Supreme Court* 

Layard for J^hittaLl tsf Co,, the appellants. 
VanLangenherg {Domhorst with him) for the plaintiff, 
respondent. 

Cur. adv. vuU. 

(3fst March). The judgment of the Court was now 
delivered by 

Clabbncb» a* C. J.— In this case a sum of money is 
standing in Court to the credit of the cause, being the pro- 
ceeds sale of certain coffee sold by the. Fiscal under writ 
issued in execution of the plaintiff's judgment. The ap^ 
pellants, Messrs. Uhittall ^ Co , claim a right to the whole 
of this fund, upon the strength of an instrument by which, 
as they contend, the coffee had been hypothecated to them. 
Appellants applied to the District Court to have the fund 
paid out to them. This application) which is stated by the 
learned District Jadge to have been made with the consent 
of the execution debtor, the defendant to the action, was 
opposed* by the plaintiff. The learned District Judge after 
hearing both the plaintiff and Messrs. TPhittall ^ Co, dis« 
missed the application with costs> and it is against that order 
that Messrs. Ifhittall ^ Oo> now appeal. 



219 

The facts appear to be these. The defendant, Mr. y, 

D. Hardie, was in 1880 the owner of Dambagasialawa 

coffee estate, subject to certain mortgages in favour of two 

mortgagees named Sikes* It would further appear that the 

Oriental Bank Corporation claim to be mortgat^ees of the 

estate to the extent of nearly Rs. 12,000 by virtue of a 

mortgage bearing date the' 12th October j88o, and at one 

time claimed a mortgagee's right over this coffee. No 

farther notice, however, need be taken of the Oriental Bankf 

since the application of appellants is made with their eon** 

sent 

On the 9th August f 880, the plaintiff instituted this action 
against the defendant, suing on a cheque. Provisional 
judgment was entered up on the 20th August, and final 
judgment on the ist October « The judgment is for 
£s. 5,075 with interest and costs. 

On the 2nd October defendant executed the instrument 
under which appellants claim. It recites an agreement that 
appellants should on the execution of the instrument pay 
defendant a sum of Bs. 19500 ^' to meet the expenditure 
already incurred in connection with the working of the 
said estate** (that is, Dambagasialawa estate) *' from the isc 
day of July 1880 to the 3isb day of August 18S0,'* and that 
appellants should from time to time make further advances 
to defendant for the purposes of the estate, the whole of 
the advances not to exceed Rs. 7>500, and appellants not to 
be under any obligation to make any advances after the 
crops and produce of the estate for " the season iSSoa&i** 
should have been picked and gathered : and for the purpose 
of securing such advances defendant by this instrument 
purported to hypothecate to appellants *^ all the coffee crop 
growing and to be grown on or gathered from the said 
estate for and during the season 1880-81.^' The operative 
words of the instrument are, '* specially hypothecate, assign 
and set over unto the said Whittall ^ Oo* as a first charge 
free from encumbrances." The defendant further covenant, 
ed with appellants that he would not without their consent 
harvest any cinchona bark, and further covenanted that as 
soon as the coffee crops should have been gathered, he 
would convey and deliver the same to appellants in Colombo* 
The instrument further provided that appellants were to 
cure the coffee so to be consigned to them, and at their 
option either sell it in Ceylon or ship it away for sale, 
defendant to be credited with the net proceeds. The 



220 

mortgagees^ the Messrs. Sikes^ are parties to> the instrutneBt,. 
and assent to the hypothecation. 

We suppose that by the "coffee crop of the se^soa 
18^80.81*' was meant the crop of coffee which would be the 
result of the blossoms of the early p^rt of the year 1860^ 
and whioh would be ripening on the trees about Christmas 
188c, and would in ordinary coarse be gathered^ pulpedv 
and seat down to Cdombo early in »88i- This, as it will 
be Seen, is the construction which appellants place upoa 
the record^ and it seems to ns the only constr action pos.. 
si'bl6« 

Plaintiff issued writ in execution of his judgment^ and 
seized the coffee, the proceeds of which are now in ques** 
tion. It is admitted that the coffee was seized as it lay ia 
the estate store, after being gathered. We do not find in- 
the paper book anything shewing precisely when the seizuro 
Was made^ and the Counsel who appeared on the appeal* 
were not able to inform ns on that point. It appears froni> 
the note made by the learned District Judge that the proi*^ 
ceeds of the coffee was Rs. 5,580*50. The sal6 was madfr 
on three successive daySr the I3th^ 14th, and 15th January; 
These latter dates are ascertained by the joint agreement o£ 
the Counsel who appeared on the appeal. 

We now come to the action which has been taken by the- 
appellants with regard to the seizure of the coffee. 

The Fiscal reports the receipt of a letter d'ated the 13th 
January from appellants*^ Proctor^ notrfying that appellants 
^' claim all proceeds to be realized by the sale of the said 
crop." According to the tenor of this letter appelliants made- 
no objection to the sale^ but made a claim to the |>roeeeds. 
We do not know when this letter reached the Fiscal. 

On the 2oth January appellants filed a libel in the I>'strir*t 
Court against defendant Mr Hardie, the present plaintiff,, 
and the Fiscal, praying for an injunction to stay the sale. 
The learned District Judge, however, in his note made in 
the present case, states that in consequence of the applica^ 
tton being ah urgent one he heard Counsel before the libel 
was filed, and on the 14th January refused the application 
for an injunction. An appeal was taken against that refusal,, 
which was argued before me on the 1 7th February, and on 
the 1 8th February I reversed the order of the District Court 
and directed the issue of an injunction to restrain the Fiscal 
from selling after that date any of the coffee in question* 
As we haye already 8eeo> all tfaie €offee had in fact beea 



221 

already sotd. We regard this iojarction merely as an lo* 
junction ad interim. 

It appears by the Fiscal's return chat the Damhagastalawa 
estate itself was. also seized imder the plaintiff's writ and 
sold OB. the 1 3th January to a Mr. Joseph, for Rs. 6oo« 
The low price was no douht due to the circumstaace of the 
estate being eacnrobered by mortgages* 

On the 15th April appellants applied for and obtained a 
Kule Nisi calling on the plaintiff and yoseph " to shew 
cause why the sum of Rs* 5*470 Si levied by virtue of the 
writ^ issued m this case should not be paid over to appeL 
lants.'* This Rule appears to haTe been afterwards made 
absolute as against Joseph for default of appearance to shew 
eanse* bat plaintiff appeared and shewed cause- There- 
would seem to have been a slip in the framing of the 
appelhints' application > inasmuch as their claina was really 
pmferred only to the proceeds of the crop hypothecated to 
Ihem, which wer# only Rs» 5>53o'5o» whereas their appli*. 
oatioD purported to lay claim to more. The Role did not 
come on for discussion as between plaintiii and appellants 
uotil the 3rd Augusts when the District Judge heard Coun« 
M. Counsel were also heard again on the 9th September^ 
and 00 the a7th September the learned District Judge made 
the order against which Messrs. WhittcUl & Oo» now appeals 
discharging tjie Rule with costs* 

The learned District Judge held it proved that on the 
4th April i88t> defendant owed appellants Rs» 6,454-39.;. 
but* as the District Judge observes> appellants do not show 
when the payments were made so as to enable the Court 
to ascertain how much was due at the date of the Fiscars 
seizure or of the sale. If it should prove desirable an in., 
quiry might be directed upon that point. Meanwhile we 
notice that appellants when askinu^ for their injunction 
claimed only Rs. 5^192*19 as advanced up to the 10th 
January. 

The contract made between defendant and appellants 
may be stated as a contract by which defendant agreed to 
hypot hecate to appellants certain Jructus: vndustriales thea 
growing on the cofEee trees on bis estate^ and further agreed 
to deliver the same to appellants when harvested. There 
was ilo sale of the coffee to appellants^ no transfer of the 
property in the coffee and no delivery of the coffee by way 
of pledge. Without going into the Roman Dutch authori^ 
ties with regard to hypothecation of moveable property, it 



222 

was held by the Privy Council io Tathamv, Andree (i)» 
that a charge over moveable property might be created iO' 
Ceyloo without delivery. Since then the Ordinance 8 of 
J 87 1 has enacted that no pledge or conventional hypothec, 
cation of moveables shall be valid and effectual so as to giva 
the pledgee or mortgagee any lien,. charge» claim, right or 
priority, over, to or in respect of such property ,. unless there, 
shall have been delivery, or unless the pledge or hypotheca- 
tion shall have been created by writing, and such writing 
registered in the Land Registry within 7 days. We take it^ 
then, that in Ceylon a charge over moveables may be created 
although the moveables remain io the owner's possession*, 
if the charge be created by mere instrument in writing, 
duly registered. The present iostroment was registered 
within the 7 days. 

The learned District Judge appears, to have thought that 
there was inherent in the transaction something vicious^. 
which precluded appellants from now asserting the contract 
as against plaintiff, a previous creditor of the defendant. 
We are not quite sure that we follow the reasoning of the 
learned District Judge. No question of fraudulent pre« 
ference seems to arise^ since the defendant does not appear 
to have become insolvent. Nor do- we think that the trans*-- 
action could be regarded as an act of bankruptcy. It does 
not purport to deal with the whole of defendant's property, 
and it does not seem calculated necessarily to delay or pre^ 
judice the defendant's existing creditors^ of whom plaintiff 
was one. On the contrary it was an arrangement which, 
might very probably benefit defendant's creditors by en* 
abling defendant at a moment o£ pecuniary pressure to keep 
up the cultivation of his estate. One knows how quickly 
a coffee estate loses value If the cultivation be not properly 
attended to* The case seems one to which we may apply 
therenaark of Eblb, J.^in Bittlestone v. Gooke (2) that the 
power of raising a small sum on an emergency may often» 
in the exigencies of trade, be of immense value. Defendant^ 
in order to obtain the means of discharging an existing 
debt and of carrying on his estate until the growing crop, 
should have been got in, agreed with appellants, that ia 
consideration of their advancing him the necessary funds* 
by future advances not to exceed a certain limit, he ^ould 
hypothecate to them the growing crop, and would in due 



(i) iN. R., 554, I (2) 6 E. & B., 309. 



223 

time deliver it, when gathered, to them in order that they 
might sell it and oot of the proceeds repay their own ad- 
Tances. This seems to us a perfectly unimpeachable 
iransaction. 

We take the instrument ta question therefore to have 
effected a hypothecation in appellants' favour of certain 
moveable property9 which, however, remained in defendant's 
possession, and which defendant covenanted thereafter to 
deliver to appellants^ and we take it that the hypothecation 
would take effect as a security to the extent of the advances 
thereafter made by appellants pursuant to the agreement, 
at any rate up to the date of the seizure in execution. 

But as mobilia non kabtnt sequelam, the appellants acquired 
no right to follow the coffee into the hands of a purchaser, 
should it have been dealt with in the interim contrary to 
their agreement with defendant. They had, as we think, 
a right of hypothec over the cofiEee as it lay in the store at 
the time when the Fiscal seized it, and consequently a right 
to prevent the plaintiff, who had no such preferent right* 
from taking and selling the coffee in execution of his writ. 
Therefore, we think that the injunction to restrain the 
Fiscal from selling was rightly issued. 

But the coffee having in fact been sold before the injunc- 
tion issued, and the proceeds being now in Court to the 
credit of this action, have appellants the right by virtue of 
their hypothec over the coffee to claim the money ? Upon 
this point we desired further argument, and the matter was 
again argued on this point. 

The coffee was sold by the Fiscal in execution of a ]udg« 
ment obtained by a creditor against the defendant. Now 
it seems to have been a principle of the Roman Dutch Law, 
that a sale once made sul hastd, in execution at the hands 
of the Fiscal, conferred on the purchaser a complete title, 
good as against all encumbrances, and, according to Pander^ 
Linden and others, especial care was taken by means of 
advertisements to give all persons concerned an opportunity 
of opposing the sale $ and as we understand the general prin« 
ciple (see Foet, xx. i. 13) the purchase money succeeded in 
place of the thing sold, and the hypothecary creditor had a 
right of preference to be paid out of the money* We have 
now for many years allowed mortgagees of land to follow 
the land in the hands of the purchasers to whom, under our 
Fiscals Ordinance, the debtor's interest has been sold in 
execution of some simple money judgment. Asto movea- 



224 

bles^ which cannot be followerl, we think that the hypotfae* 
cary creditor^ as long as the money remains in ou^tody of 
the Court, has a right to t>e paid thereout the amoont of 
his debt in preference to the execution creditor or any 
f)ther creditors claiming in concurrence with him. 

We think) therefore, that appellants have a prefereat 
right over this fund* but to what extent we are not in a 
position to say, because we do not kooW) and Counsel were 
fiot able to inform us. on what dates appellants made their 
several advances, 

S^i aside* 

Proctor for the plaintiff, F, FanLangenlerg. 
Proctor for ffkiUall ^ Co.^ Thomas & Julius* 



2 1st and ^ 1st Marckf 18^2, 

Present-*CLAREN€B> A* C J., and Dias, J. 

D. C. \ S. L. M. loRoos Lbbbb Mark.ar and another 
Matara, > v. 

32,285. J The Deputy Fiscal of Matara and two others. 

Fiscal* s Sale - Ordinance 4 of 1867, ^^ct. ^^-^ Irregularis 
ties — Action to set aside sale ongrounds falling under sect, 53. 

Section 53 of the Fiscals Ordinance^ 1867, prescribes the sole procedure 
open to a party considering^ himself a.ggticsed by irregularities in the 
publishing or conducting of a Fiscal's sale, and such sale cannot be 
set aside in a sepacate action on grounds falling within the puiview of 
section 53. 

Plaintiffs appealed against an order of the District Judge 
(A, H. Roosmalecocq) dismissing their action with costs. 
The facts sufficiently appear from the judgment of the 
Supreme Court. 

Dornhorsl lor the plaintiffs, appellants. 
Roosmalecocq for the defendants, respondents. 

Cur. adV' vult- 

(31st March). The judgmetit of the Court was deliver^ 
ed by 

Clarence, A. C. J. — Plaintiffs are the execution debtors 
in an action B. 0. Galle Np. 44,676, in which judgment weat 



225 

^srainst them, and untier writ issued in execution of the 
judgment certain immoveable property of plaintiffs' was 
seized and sold, the present third defendant becoming the 
purchaser. Plaintiffs now bring this action against the De- 
puty Fiscal and a subordinate Fiscal's officer (who are the first 
two defendants) and the third defendant, praying that the 
sale may be cancelled, or in the alternative that defendants 
may be decreed to pay plaintiffs the difference between the 
anction price, which was Rs. 106, and Rs. 420, which 
plaintiffs aver to be the real value o( the property. The 
reasons alleged in the libel for avoiding the sale are all 
matters falling within the purview of the 53rd section of the 
Fiscals Ordinance* 

The defendants answer that the sale took place on the 
28th August 1880, and plead the5)rd section of the Fiscals 
Ordinance- Plaintiffs do not dispute that the sale took 
h»lace on 28th August 1S80. The present action was insti- 
tuted on the 39th January i88i. 

The District Judge dismissed the plaintiffs' action with 
costs* holding that the 53rd section of the Fiscals Ordinance 
prevented plaintiffs maintaining this action. Plaintiffs 
appeal. 

We think the decision of the District Judge was right) 
and that this appeal should be dismissed with costs. 

In our opinion the intention of section 53 was to pre. 
scribe the sole procedure which should be open to a party 
considering himself aggrieved by irregularity or informality 
in the conduct of a sale. 

appeal dismissed. 

Proctor for the plaintiffs, C. H, fi. Allendorff. 
Proctors for the defendants, G. E. Keuneman, Jonathan 
Silvtt' 



226 

%6lk May and Sth June, 1889. 
Present — Dias and Grbnibr, JJ« 
D. C ) S. R> M. Ibrahim Saibu 
WiRAPPBN and two others* 



Kand79 > v* 

88,616. J 



Fiscal-~Qr4mance ^x^ 1867, sects. 5,83 — Bond to Fiscal 
•of Province — Assignment t/tereof hf Deputy Fiscal of Dis^ 
triet. 

Upon a seizure of certain property in ezecatioo, two persons claimed 
it as their own, and were allowed to retain possession on giving' a bond 
to the Fiscal of the Central Province, undertaking to deliver the pro- 
perty to the Fiscal when called upon. The Deputy Fiscal of Matale 
preffessed to assign thb bond to the plaintiCP by indorsement as direct* 
cd by seedon 83 of the FUeaU Ordimance, 

Hddy that the assignment was bad, having been made by a pacty 
having no interest in the bond. 

This was an action by plaintiff, as the assignee of a 
. security bond for Rs* joo given in favoar of the Fiscal of the 
Central Province, to recover that saoi from the obligor and 
his sureties, as upon a breach of the conditions in the bond. 
Plaintiff appealed against an order of the District Court 
(A. <7. Laivrie, 3^dg&) dismissing his action with costs. 

The facts sufficiently appear from the judgments in 
appeal. 

There was no appearance of Counsel. 

Cur. adv. vult» 

(8th Jane). Dias> J.-~This is an action on a secoritj 

bond granted to the Fiscal of the Central Province. The 

plaintiff issued exocution in D. (7. Kandy 6^,2^6 against 

one Phoosa and seized a growing coffee crop, when the first 

. defendant and one Kammachchi, a minor, claimed it. The 

l^ijt^ fr h*^*^ Fiscal for the Central Province allowedthem to retain pos* 

r> v^.. £-X<..^.M4(i< session of the crop on their giving security to take care of 

the crop and deliver it to the Fiscal when called apon. 
The bond is in the form of a penal bond for Rs. joo, and 
it is iu favor of the Fiscai for the Central Province. The 
and and 3rd defendants are sureties under the bond. On 
the 7th June 1881, the Deputy Fiscal of Matale assigned 
this bond to the plaintiff. The and and 3rd defendants 
answered, and in the 6th paragraph of their Answer they 



227 

deny the validity of the assignment. On the face of the 
bond, the assignment is bad, as it is an assignment by a 
party who bad no interest in the bond. 

The fitcais Ordinance, No. 4 of 1867, section 83, refers 
to assignments of security bonds, and it clearly contemplates 
assignments by Fiscals as well as by Deputy Fiscals -, and 
though the 5th section of the Ordinance empowers Deputy 
Fiscals to exercise the powers and perform the duties of 
the Fiscal for the Province within the district of such 
Deputy Fiscal, I do not think that nnder this 5th section 
the Deputy Fiscal of a district can assign a bond made m 
favor of the Fiscal of the Province. This section doubtless 
authorisesi a Deputy Fiscal to take a bond like this in his 
own favor, but I do not think it delegates to the Depnty 
Fiscal the right and authority of the Fiscal as in this case. 
The learned District Judge has entered upon the considers* 
tion of several matters of law and fact, bttt we need not 
enter on these topics, as we think the assignment of the 
bond by the Deputy Fiscal of Matale did not convey any 
right to the plaintiff, and on this ground we affirm the dis« 
missal. 

GsviTlBB, J«— I am of the same opinion. Not only is 
the assignment to the plaintiff essentially defective* but» 
even assuming it to be a valid assignment, the breach of the 
conditions of the bond has neither been properly pleaded 
nor properly proved. 

Affirmed, 

Proctor for the plaintiff, M- P. Sameresinghe% 
Proctor for the defendants, F. A. Prims. 



I2lh and i^tk September t 1882. 
Present— ^Clabbncb and DiAS, JJ. 



D. 0. 1 V. p. D« Mbll 

Pbbbba and another. 



D. 0. -J V. p. 

Sandy, > 
87,824. J M. P. 



Mortgage ^Mortgage effected after accrual of Crown debt 
''^Right o/* Crown to ** preference of payment* ^'Ordinance 
x^qf 1843, sect. ^^ Sale of execution debtor s ** interest**'^ 
S^zure, continuance of^ 



228 

In 1^73 the first defemfant was the owner of certain laii<*. In Noveni'-> 
ber 1873, S. obtained judgment for a large sum of money against the: 
first defendant. In July 1879 the Queen's Advocate obtained judgment 
against the first defendant for certain money due by him to Govern^, 
mcnt upon bis pniebase of an arrack-rent. la December 1879 first 
defendant mortgaged bis land to plaintiff. In 1876 d. seized the land 
in execution of bis judgment, but did nothing further under bis writ. 
In January 1881 the first defendant's interest in the land was sold bjr 
way of a joint levy under the writs of S. and the Crown^ and was 
purchased by the second defendant. Plaintiff now sue'i the defendants 
on the mortgage contract, praying that the mortgagor's interest as it 
stood at the date of the mortgage might be decldied specially ezecuta^ 
ble for the debt. 

Htld, that the seizure of the land effected by S. in 1^76 roust be 
taken to have been abandoned by 1879 when the mortgage was creat- 
ed ; and that the mortgage was therefore not affected by such seizure^ 

The Fiscal having, at the sale at which second defendant purchased, 
sold the execution debtor's interest in the land :. 

Held, that this sale passed only the debtor's interest as at the date o^ 
seizure, when plaintiff's mortgage was in existence. 

Held therefore, (affirming the decision of the Court below) that plains 
tiff was entitled to judgment.. 

Per Claabmcr, J. — ^The Ordinance 14 of 1843, ^f giving the 
Crown a " preference of payment" over other creditors, did not give it 
power to sell the property of its debtor free from all encumbrances 
created after the accrual qI the Crown debt ; and it is questionable 
whether the privilege of the Crown amounts to more than a right to 
preference quoad any assets which may from- time to time have been 
realized and brought into Court, including perhaps a levy by a mort- 
gagee under a mor^agee's decree* 

The secoDd defendant In this case appealed againsfc a de^. 
cree of the District Court of Kandy in favour of the plain* 
tiff,, declaring the mortgaged land specially executable for 
j;j^ the mortgage debt. The land had since the mortgage beea 
sold under a Crown writ against the mortgagor and par- 
chased by second defendant. The remaining facts of the 
case appear in the judgments in appeal. 

Ferdinands, A, Q A,^ for the second defendant, appellant. 
Grenier (Bornhorst and Seneviratne with hrm) for the 
plaintiff, respondent. 

Cur, adv. vult. 

- (19th September). Cl^lrbkcs, J.— I take the facts foL 

lowing as stated in the judgment of the learned .District 

> Judge. It was not suggested upon the argument of the 

appeal but that the learned District Judge's statement of 

facis is correct* 



229 

In 1873 Pedro Perera owned certain land, and in NoTem. 
ber 1 87 3, Harmanis Soyza obtained a jud&[ment against 
Perera for a l<rge sum of money (case Z). C, Kandy^ 59,848), 
In 1878 Perera purchased from Government an "Arrack, 
rent.*' In May, 1879, he made default in the payments 
dae by him to the Guvernment under that purchase, and in 
July* i879> the Queen*s Advoca'e obtained judgment 
against him for a sum of money. (Case D. 0, Kandy- 
82,i4.5)- In December, 1879, ^^^'a mortgaged the land 
to present plaintiff, de MdU who at once registered his 
mortgage. Meanwhile Harmanis Soi/iza had issued writ in 
J 876 in execution of his judgment, and under that writ the 
land now in question was seized, but the seisure was noti 
followed up by any sale ; and it is admitted by the learned 
Acting Queen's Advocate, who appears for the appellant, 
that there is no proof of anything further as done under thac 
seizure.. In January, 1881, Harmnnia £>oy^aV judgment, 
and the Crown judgment against Pm^era were both unsatis - 
fied. 1 he land in question appears to have bsen seized 
about the end of 1880 ia execution of both these ^dg men ts; 
and the land was by some joint arrangetDent sold on the 
footing of a levy under both judgments, and bought by 
Migel Soyza, present appellant, it. appears that aU the 
Fiscal then purported to sell was the debtor Perera^s interest 
in the land, which without more would mean his interest 
as it stood at the date of the seiiure. A contest then took 
place between the * Crown and Harmanis Soyza for the 
proceeds of the levy, and it was held by this Court, afSrm^ 
ing a decision of the District Court, that the Crown claigi 
fell under section 5, and not section 4, of Ordinance 14 of 
3 843» that Harmonu 5'oy«a5 claim must be dated back to 
1866, when Perera' s debt to him was held to have been 
contracted, and that, consequently, the Crowa claim had no 
right to preference over Harmanis Soyza^s, and both must 
be paid in concurrence. 

In the present action, de Ve/Z, the mortgagee, sues Perera^ 
the mortgagor, andMigel Soysia, appellant, on the mortgage 
contract. The moitgage debt is still owing, and the relief 
which plaintiff priyed against appellant is a declaration that 
the land is specially executable under the mortgage, that is, 
liable to be sold as it stood at the date of the n^ortgage, or 
in other words, plaintiff seeks to sell the land over the head 
of appellant, who purchased subsequently to the mortga^sje. 

Two points were a-gued in appeal by the lea»'ned Acting 



230 

Queen's Advocate, as the grounds on which we were askecl 
lo reviTse the decision of the District Court. 

The first point was that when plaintiff ^s mortgage was 
made in Dfcemher, 1879, the land was still under seizure 
under Harmanis Soyzas writ issued in 1876. We know 
nothing more of that seizure than that the land was seized 
in June, 1876, and that no sale ever took place under that 
seizure. It would in my opinion be absurd to accept this 
as establishing that the land was still under seizure ia 
December, 1879. 

The second point, which was the poiat pressed, was that, 
having regard to section 5 of Ordinance 14 of 1843,. the 
sale to appellant overrides plaintiff's mortgage. 

It was not contended in appeal on respondent's part, that 
anything turns on the registration of plaintiff's mortgage. 

Plaintiff's mnrtg:age was made subsequently to the accFU« 
ing of the Crown debt. 

Whatever difficulty there may be in construing the 
English Law term " specialty" as employed in this Ceyloa 
Ordinance, it is sufficient for the present purpose to say that 
it evidently was intended to include mortgages* and coaee^ 
quently, applying the enactment (sect. 5) to this mortgage 
and this (Jrowo debt, the enactment amounts to a declara* 
tion that the Crown debt is entitled " to a preference of 
payment" over the mortgage debt. The que^tion thea is» 
What does that amount to ? 

The learned Acting Queen's Advocate contended that 
it gave the Crown the power to sell the land free of 
the mortgage and of every encumbrance created subse- 
quently to the Crown debt. For my own part, as 
at present advised, I think it questionable whether the 
enactment does more than confer on the Crown a right to 
preference quoad any assets which may from time to time 
have been realized and brought into Courts e, g. money ia 
Court as the proceeds of a levy (incfuding probably a levy 
by ibe mortgagee under a mortgagee's decree) or assets 
under an insolvency. But it seems to me unnecessary to 
discuss this question, because it does not appear ihat at the 
joint levy made under the two writs, the Crown writ and 
Harmanis Soyza^St the Fiscal sold or professed to sell the 
debtor's interest in the land as it stood at the date when the 
Crown debt accrued, but merely the debtor's interest in th^ 
land, without more, and that would be his interest as k 



231 

stood at the time of the seiffure^ Now at. the time of thab 
seizure plaiotiff^s mortgage was in existence. 

DiAS, J.— ^This is an appeal by the second defendant 
3gainst the judgment of the District Court of the 6th March 
18S2. The plaintiff sues on a mortgage bond of nth 
December 18; 9. against the first defendant as mortgagor, 
and against the second defendant as a party in possession 
of the mortgaged property. The plaintiff prays for a rnort^ 
gage decree against both defendants. Interlocutory judg- 
ment was entered against the first, defendant, who does not 
defend the actioni bat second defendant justifies his posses- 
sion. He bought the mortgaged property at a FiscaPs sale 
in execution of two writSf Nos. 83,145 and 59,848. The 
first writ is a writ in favor of the Grown, but the Fiscal 
sokl and the second defendant bought on 6th January 188 1* 
The decrees in both cases are mere money decrees. It was 
contended for the second defendant that, as he bought under 
a Crown writ, he bought the estate free frona all encnm- 
braoces created by the first defendant after the Crown debt 
had accrued. Under the 5th clause of the Ordinance 14 of 
1 84.5 the Crown has a tacit hypothec over all th» property 
of its debtors from the date of the accruing of the debt. 
The Crown debt in question seems to have accrued before 
the date of plaintiff's mortgage, and if the decree in favour 
of the Grown is founded on that hypothec no doubt pur. 
chasers at a Fiscal's sale in execution of such decree will 
take the property so purchased free from all encumbrances 
subsequently created by the Crowo debtor j but in this case 
the judgment in favor of the Crown is a mere money 
judgment agamst the first defendant, and all the Fiscal sold, 
and the second defendant bought, was the interest of the 
first defendant at the date of the sale, viz. 6th January i8S£. 
At that date first defendant's right and title were subject to 
the plaint ifiE's mortgage of 1879. ^^ ^^ further contended 
lor the second defendant that at the date of the plaintiff^s 
mortgage the estate was in custodid legis under the writ 
^o. 59*848. All that need be said on this point is that the 
seizure, which was made on the joih June 187 61 must be 
taken to have been abandoned. Besides, the decree in 



2f-2 

j</S^^ was a fDOoey decree on a simple monej claim. 
For tbe abo«e leasoos the judginent appealed from mast 
be affirmed* 

Proctor for tbe pbiotiffy Edwin Seven. 

Pioctor for tbe seoood defendant, fiPl Gooneiilleke. 



tSlh August and ^glk September^ 1882. 
Present— Clare HCB and Dias, J J. 

D. C 1 K. R. A. MuTAPPA Chittt 
Kandf, S t. 

87,945, J P. W. Cohoi.lt. 



Piscalt action against- Jar neglect of duty '"Prescription^^ 
Ordinance 4 of 1867, sect, 21 — Accrual oj cause of action, 

Plfltntiff, the hoMcr of a wiit against two persona, placed it in the 
bands of defendant, a Fiscal, for execution. Defendant paqx>rted to 
seize certain land of the execution debtors, but the seizure was bad for 
tirie omissirn of certain formalities. Between tbe sdzure and the day 
fixed for sale, viz. on soth January 1879, ^^ execution debtors con« 
veyed the property seized to A., who claimed the land and stayed the 
sale. 'Plairtifl broufrht an action to set aside A.'s claim as made 
pending seizure, which action was finally decided against plaintiff ia 
appeal on 7th September, 1880, on the ground that there had been no 
valid seizure pnor to the conveyance to A. Plaintiff brought the present 
action, for damages, against the defendant in February i88i. 

Held (;iffirming the decision of the District Court) that plaintifiPs 
cause ot action accrued on defendant's failure to make a valid seizure, 
and that plaintiff's action, not having been brought within nine months 
of such accrual, was barred by section 21 of the FiscaU Ordinance, 
1867. 

The plaintiff appealed against a judgment of the Coart 
below holdiQg that his action was barred by prescription. 
1 he facs of Ihe case fully appear in the judgment of the 
Supreme Court. 

Van Langenlerg for the plaintiff, appellant. 
Lfjyard foi the defendant, respondent. 

Cur. adv vu/t. 



233 

<29th September). The jadgment of the Coart was 
lielivered by 

Clarsnob, J.-^Thisisaa actioo against a Fiscal. The 
<|uestion raised oa the appeal is one of prescription. To 
plaintiff's libel defendant pleaded that the cause of action 
did not accrue within nine months of action brought, and 
pleaded the 21st section of the FUcals Ordinance. 

The substance of plaintiff's complaint is as follows:— 
Plaintiff, in January 1879, held a judgment obtained in a 
Eandy District Court action for a sum of money against 
two men named Loktt Banda and Punchy Banda, Defendant 
then being Fiscal for the Central Province, plaintiff issued 
his writ and placed it in defendant's hands for execution, 
with instructions to seize and sell certain land of the judg- 
ment debtors. Defendant purported to seize the land, but 
in consequence of defendant's officer having omitted ceitain 
necessary formalities, there was no valid Seizure. Mean* 
while, between the date of the ostensible seizure and the 
date appointed for the sale, viz. on the 20th January 1879, 
the judgment debtors conveyed the land to one Appuhamyt 
who thereupon laid claim to the land, whereupon defendant 
did not sell the land, and plaintiff brought an action against 
Appuhamy for the purpose of setting aside Appuk amy's 
conveyance, but failed in that action by reason that, there 
having been 00 valid seizure prior to the conveyance, the 
conveyance was not obnoxious to section 42 of the Ordi- 
nance. Plaintiff's action against Appuhamy was dismissed 
on 1 2th January 1880, and that dismissal was affirmed in 
ihe Supreme Court on the 7th September 1880. 

Plaintiff's present action was brought in February 1881. 
Plaintiff contends that his cause of action did not accrue 
until the Supreme Court judgment was passed. On the 
contrary, we think that plaintiff's cause of action accrued 
when the Fiscal failed to seize. Plaintiff had then a dis- 
tinct right to have the land seized. The Fiscal, according 
to plaintiff's averments, failed to seize, and plaintiff had at 
onoe a cause of action and a right to be placed in the same 
position, by means of damages^ as if the Fiscal had done 
his duty. 



234 



We think ih^t when the fiscal failed to seize, there was 
at once a breach of his daty to plaintifiF, and damage to 
plaintiff. We think, therefore, that the decision of the 
learned District Judge was right and should be affirmed. 



Affirmed^ 



Proctor for the plaintiff, C7. Panderwall^ 
Proctor for the defendant, £• Beven. 



St. />/^^^ a?'* January and i^ih February^ 1882. 
^^t;^ /S-^^ ? Resent^.CLABJiBCB, A. C* J , and Dias, J. 

V 

C. R. •) 8. B. DB SlLVA 

Galle, > V. 

60,977. ^ T. y* E. Pkrbba and two others. 

Practice ^Lessor and Lessee ^Action by lessee against tres^ 
passer '''joinder of lessor as defendant to tvarrant and defend 
title. 

Plaiatili, a lotiee who bad been daly put in possession of the prope|ty 
leased, sued bis lessor and two others, averring that second and third, 
defendants bad trespassed upon the property and forcibly av propriated 
eertain goods of plaintiff's, and calling upon bis lessor (tbe first de« 
fendant) to warrant and defend tlUc, and, in failure^ to pay plaintiff 
tbe rent advanced and tbe value of tbe goods appropriated by tbe 
trespassers . Tbe trespassers baving claimed and proved tide to tbe 
property leased, first defendant was by tbe Court below decreed (o repay 
tbe advance rent and cast in damages and costs. 

Held (reversing tbe derisbn of tbe Court of Requests), that the firsfc 
defendant bad been improperly joi ned in tbe suit and was entitled to bo 
absolved from tbe instance witb costs. 

A 0, Negombo 7,744 (i) approved quoad hoe, 

Th^ first tlefendant appealed against a judgment of the 
Court of Requests (y* D- Mason, Commissioner), decreeing 
him to repay to plaintiff certain rent received from him, and 
to pay Rs. j as damages, and plaintiff's costs. 

The facts of the case are sufficiently disclosed in the 
judgments in appeal. 

RoQsmalecocq for the first defendant, appellant. 

Cur. adv. vult. 



(1) 1 S.C. C, 54. 



285 

(i4ib February). CLiLBBNCB> A.. C. J. — Plaiatiff avers 
a lease from first defendant of a cocoanut pit for two years 
from 22nd September 1880. He further avers that on ijih 
July 1 88 1 second and third defendants forcibly ousted him 
and threw out his cocoanut husks and appropriated them. 
He thus joins these three defendants in one action ■: ha adks 
that first defendant might be c^led on to warrant tiile* and 
on failure thereof may be condemned not only t» return the 
rent paid by plaintiff, but to pay for the husks^ appropriated 
by second and third defendants 3 and ici> the alternative 
plaintiff asks for damages against second and third defeii« 
dants for the husks. 

The first defendant answers that he has performed his part 
of his contract with pkiniiff,. and objects^ to being sued id 
this suit jointly with second and third defendants. The 
second and third defendants allege title to the pit. 

The Commissioner, in spite of first defendant's obfectioU'j 
called on him to warrant his tkle to lease^ and holding on 
the evidence that he had failed to do so». decreed him to pay 
one year'd rent already received from plaintiff id advance^ 
and to pay Rs. 5 damages, and to pay plaintiff's costs. The 
second and third defendants^ who according to the Com. 
missioner have defended themselves succe^fully, are thus 
left to bear their own costs^ 

The first defendant appeals* 

- I think that the first defendant's objectiem to the eonsti^ 
tntion of plaintiff's suit was rightly taken in the Court 
below and Should have been upheld. It is a mistake to 
suppose that a purchaser or a lessee, when suing a tres^ 
passer^ has a right to join his vendor or lessor as a defen^ 
danc party and calf upon him to warrant title. As betWeeiV 
plaintiff and first defendant aU that appears on the pleadings 
is that firat defendant leased to plaintiff, that plaintiff was 
in possession >■ and that the other defendants trespassed^ A 
purchaser in possession, against whom an attempt is made 
to evict htm by process of law, has a right to call on his 
vendor to defend the title* but it is no sequence of this that 
a purchaser coming into Court as a plaintiff to claim 
damages from a trespasser should be able to join his ven. 
dor as a co-defendant. This was in effect pointed out 
by Sir John Fhear in D. 0. Negomho 7^744 (i)f and 
although upon another point (the right of a vendee who has 

(1) I S. C. C, 54. 



236 

not obtaiaed possession to naaintain ejectment) there is a 
subsequent contrary decision of this Court, I do not 
understand the later decision as throwing any doubt on the 
principle just mentioned. 

DiAS, J— -This is an action by a lessee against his lessor^ 
who is the first defendant, founded on a tortious act of the 
second and third defendants. The plaint avers that on the 
32nd September 18S0 the fkst defendant leased to the 
plaintiff a cocoanot busk pit tor two years ; that on I7tb 
Jaly i88>i the second and third defendants forcibly took 
possession of the pit and appropriated the husks. The 
second and third defendants claim the pit as their property^ 
and the first defendant denies his liabilky on the ground 
that he put the plaintiff in quiet possession of the pit, which 
plaintiff continued to possess uninterruptedly tilL the date 
of the alleged trespass* After hearing evidence on both 
sides, the Commissioner gave judgment for the plaintiff as 
against the first defendant, who now appeals. The jadg- 
ment of the Commissioner is erroneous in law.. The lease 
imposes no obligation on fisst defendant to prevent the 
second and third defendants from taking the plaint iff 'is. 
cocoanut husks or, in default, to pay damages. If the 
first defendant is responsible for the tortious act of the 
second and third, every landlord will be liable to pay 
damages to his tenant whose house has been robbed. 

Bet aside* First defendomt 
absolved. Flaintiff ia 
pay all costs* 

Proctor for the plaintiff. A* T, Weerasoorta. 

Proctor for first defendant, D. O. Goonesekere. 

Proctor for second and third defendants^ D. Samarawtkrama^ 



287 

^rd and zSth March, i88a« 

Present— Clabbncb» A. C J.> Dias and Orbnibr, JJ» 

P. C. \ £. £. MODDBR 

Chilaw, > V. 

14,398. J Thomis cLiias Shadracb, 



Vagrants Ordmancet 4 0/ 18 4.x » sect, 4* smhsect. O^Foutut 
in house for unlawful purpose ^Fwmication. 

The purpose of committing secret fornication i» not an *' unlawful 
purpose** within the meaning of subsect. 6 of sect. 4 of the VagranJU 
Ordinance, 1841. 

The defendant was charged with being found in the eom« 
plainant's honse for an unlawful purpose. The Magistrate 
found he was there for the purpose of committing fornica^ 
tion with an inmate of complainant^s house, and acquitted 
defendant^ holding that this was not an *' unlawful purpose^ 
within the purview of the Vagrcmts Ordinance, 1841,. sect.. 
4> subsect. 6, The complainant appealed. The facts are 
fully disclosed in the judgments of the Supreme Court. 

(ij^th February). The case first coming on before 
Clarbncb, J., it was by. his order put on for the full 
Court. 

Ko CoiiDsel appeared on the appeal. 

Cur> adv. vult 

(aSth March). Gbbnisb, J.— ^I think that the judgment 
of the Magistrate in this case is right, although I cannot 
adopt all his reasoning in support of it. The charge is laid 
under the 6th subsection of section 4 of Ordinance 4 of 
1841* Ihat subsection is copied almost verbatim from 
section 4 of the Vagrant Act (5 Geo. 4 cap. 85), and 
the judicial interpretation which has been placed upon the 
■words '• unlawful purpose,*' which occur in the English 
statute, will apply to the same words as used in our Ordi- 
Dance. In Hoy es v* Stephenson {i) the Court of Queen's 
Bench decided that being in a garden (the term ** garden" 
occurs both in the Statute and in out Ordinance) for the 
puipose of fornication is not being there for an ** unlawful 
purpose" within the meaning of the Vagrant Act; that 

every immoral purpose is not necessarily an unlawful pur^ 

i< ■ ■ ■ - ■ I ■ ■ I 

(I) 9 W. R., 53. 



238 

pose ; and that the troe cooatmction te- be placed upon the- 
words " unlawful purpose" '* is a purpose to do something 
forbidden by the statute or common law«*' 

Now, the facts of the case, as I gather from the record,, 
are» that the defendant was found» on the nigbt of the idih. 
of November last, in the complainant's dwelling house in a 
room occupied by a maid servant. The defendant had not 
been {orbidden the house by the complainant, and his visit 
on this occasion was no doubt with the consent, if not at 
the invitation, of the servant, who in her evidence says, ''He*^ 
(the defendant) " is my husband, and had come to see me.''* 
She, however, adds, " We are not married," The Magis^ 
trate has found as a fact (and I see no reason to differ from 
his finding) that the defendant's purpose was to commit 
fornication with the maid servant* There Is no statute law- 
forbidding secret fornication of this kind, nor in my opinioa« 
is it forbidden by oor common law. What the later Roman 
Dutch Law regarded as a criminal offence was public iomW 
cation (i). 

It is unnecessary*, in my opinion^ to review in this case- 
the decision of Justice Stewart in /^ 6. Panadura 22,247 (^)v^ 
as the evidence does not establish that the servant, at the 
time of the alleged offence* was a married woman. True 
she says, '* I was married to another man, but left h'lca. 
some three or four years ago at Negombo*' y but she does- 
not say that she was lawiully married* or that her husband 
is living ; and lor aught that appears on the record he may 
be dead. The Magistrate> moreover, has expressly held., 
that there is uo reason to snpp€»se that defendant was aware 
that the servant had previously been married. The facts as 
proved in the Panadura case were entirely different* 

Clarbnos* A» 0. J.— 'I am clearly of opinion^ that this^ 
defendant is not shewn to have been on the premises ia 
question for an unlawful purpose within the meaning of the 
Vagrants Ordinance^ The case reported in 3 Grenier being 
at all events distinguishable, it is unnecessary now to coa-- 
sider whether it was rightly decided. 

DiASf J. — I am of the same opinion. 

Affirmed* 

(i) Van dec Linden, Instk^ bk. 2„cap. 7,. sect. 5.; Henry *^ Transla- 
tion, 356. 

(2)3 Grenier, P. C, 6. 



239 

T^tJi May and Uh yune, 1882. 

Present^DiAS and Grbnibr, JJ, 



J. ?. \ C, MilLTTHBW 

Colorabo, > V. 



K), > 
L. Jo. 



3,994. -^ C. Oabolis and others. 

Security to keep the peace ^0rdinanc9 ir of 1S6S9 secik 
%2g^ Refusal to require security -^^ppeaktbie order* 

Held^ (per DiAS, J., dubilante Grbniir, J.) that the order of a 
Justice of the Peace, refusing to require the defendants to gi?e securit7 
to keep the peace, was an appealable order. 

The complainant in this case^ upon affidavit that the 
defendants had used towards him threats likely to provoke 
m breach of the peace, prayed that they might be required to 
find security to keep the peace. The Justice* believing 
there was no reason to fear a breach of the peace* refused to 
require such security* and complainant appealed against this 
refusal. The matter was first argued before Gbbnibb, J., 
by whose order it was put on before a fuller Bench. 

Browne {Tempter with him) for the complainant, appellant. 
Layard for the defendants, respondents. 

Cur^ adv, vult. 

(8th June). D«as, J. — On the 6th April last the com. 
plainant swore an affidavit charging the five ace ised with 
using threats, and prayed that they might be bound over to 
keep the peace. The matter was investigated on the 15th 
April, when evidence was called on both sides, and in the 
result the* Justice of the Peace discharged the accused, 
i^ gainst this order the complainant appeals. It. appears that; 
the complainant and another are rival dubashes, or persons 
supplying ships with provisions. The party opposed to the 
complainant is supported by some persons who are beaded 
by Carolist the and accused. Disputes and cases and 
counter^cases seem to have been going on between these par- 
ties for some time* On these proceedings it is difficult to say 
which party is in the wrong, but one thing is clear beyond 
all doubt, that if some steps are not taken at once, these 
disputes are likely to result in a serious breach of the peace* 
The Justice of the Peace himself thought that the accused 
might have used threats towards the complainant* but he 



240 

did not think those threats were serioas. From this opi- 
nion I entirely dissent, and it appears to me that ist» sod 
and 3rd defendants should be booad over to keep the peace. 
No case, however, has been made out as against the 4th and 
5th accused, who were properly discharged. 

An objection was taken at the hearing of this appeal by 
the learned Counsel for the respondeat, that the order 
appealed from is not an appealable order. This question 
depends on the construction to be placed on the a 29th clause 
of the Ordinance No. 11 of i368. That clause provides, 
that in every case in which any person considers himself 
aggrieved by the proceedings of any Cour^, Magistrate or 
Justice, in having required or refused security to keep the 
peace or for good behaviour, &c. In this case the Justice of 
the Peace discharged the accused, or in other words, refused 
to require the accused to give security to keep the peace. It 
was contended for the respondent that the words '* refuse 
security" meant the rejection of security on the ground of 
insufficiency or for some other cause. This construction does 
not seem to me to he borne out by the context. The clause 
seems to me to suppose two cases, viz. ist, the case of a 
party accused who is required to give security, and 2nd, the 
case of the complaining party who prays that the accused 
party may be required to give security. The construction 
contended for by the respondent would only give an appeal 
to the accused party, and there is nothing in this clause^or 
in any other clause of the Ordinance to shew why the com** 
plaining party should be in a worse position than the 
accused party. In my view of the Ordinance the order 
appealed from is an appea able order. 

Gbbnieb, J. — When this case originally came before me, 
sitting alone, I entertained grave doubts as to whether the 
order complained of by the appellant was an appealable 
order or not. The appeal was re-argued before me and my 
brother Dias, and I cannot say that the arguments of the 
learned Counsel for the appellant have altogether removed 
those doubts. But I feel bound by the judicial interpreta" 
tion which this Court has by several decisions placed upon 
the 229th section of the Administration of justice Ordinance^ 
and I will not therefore say that the appeal should be 
rejected. 

Upon the merits of the case, I agree with my brother 
DiAs that the interests of justice demand that the first 



241 j 

three^defeodaots should be required to give security to keep ^ 

the peace. I should have felt disposed to require the com^ ! 
plainant also to give security if the evidence had disclosed 

that he had in any way provoked the threats used by the | 

defendants, or had himself evinced an intention to commit a I 

breach of the peace. Bur> as it is, the evidence is all one | 

way and affects only the defendants* j 



S^t aside. 



isl and i6ih yunct 188 a. 
Present"— Clarence, J. 
I). C. \ Saibo Mbeba Mabkab 

Colombo, ^ ^ ^ ^ g^j^g^ l^ni^is, Maekab 
SjySjj. ' Ex parte J. L. Mohamado Lebbb Mabkab. 

Insolvency ^ Injunction — Assignee* s right to restrain execu- 
tion creditor of insolvent from selling moveables of insolvent 
in execution — Summary application. 

Defendant was adjudicated insolvent on 10th January) and appellant 
was appointed bis assignee on 14th February. Plaintiff obtained in 
this suit a money judgment against defendant on i6ch January, issued 
writ, and on 33rd February seized in execution certain shop goods of 
defendant then in the custody of appellant as assignee, and advertised 
them for sale* Appr Uant, upon afiBdavit o! these facts and notice to 
plaintiff and defendant, moved (in effect"^ in this suit that the Fiscal 
might be restrai>.ed by injunction from selling the goods in execution. 

Held, that the application had been rightly refused by the District 
Court 

3emble, that the Court might have granted an injunction, had the 
application been made in the ordinary course upon a fresh libel filed. 

Plaintiff in this action obtained judgment for Rs. 460, 
interest and costs, on j6th January 18 ia, against the de^ 
fendant by default. The defendant was on loth January 
j8d2 adjudicated insolvent. The appellant was on 14th 
February appointed assignee of his insolvent estate, which 
was placed under sequestration. On the 21st February the 
Fiscal delivered oyer to appellant as such assignee certain 
shop goods of the insolvent which had been sequestered 
with the rest of his estate. On writ issued by plaintiff in 
execution of his judgment, the Fiscal, on 23rd February, 
seized these shop goods in spite of the assignee's protest. 
On 13th Marcbi upon affidavit of these facts by the assignee, 



US 

fiia klie^ aftiito H the j>iaibtitf, iU defendant, knZ i)U 
tiiiiU the ^Migh^ moved tor a riile nisi oh \he plaiiitiff. 
Ihe defetiaanty and the Fiscal calling upon them to sho^ 
^^lise why the seizure should not be set aside and the writ 
of execution riecalled. The District Judge {T. Berwick) 
disallowed the motion, holding that the questions involved 
could not be disposed of upon Nummary proceedidgs like tfaS 
present. 

The assignee appealed* 

Dornkorst for the assignee, appellant. 
Layard for the (ilaibtiffi r68|;idndehfc^ 

dkr. adv. vuli* 

(t6th June). OLAREKbl, J.-^This is kiA appeal by kn 
assignee in insolvency against a dismissal by the learned 
District Judge of ah applibaiion which is rightly characteriz- 
ed by the District judge as an application for an injtonctibii 
to stay a sale in execution* 

Plaintiff got judgment on the i6th January against ihm 
. defendant tor RS' 460, claimed as rent due lor a certain 
shop at Kayman^s Gate* On the 23rd January plaintiff 
issued writ in eiecution 6t that judgmefcit. On the 13th 
iblarcb the present Appellant upon notice to plaintiff and 
defendant made his present application* The affidavit ia 
^uppotrt of the motion ^t^tes that defendant was adjudicated 
insolvent on the loth January, that appellant was appoint- 
ed assignee on the 14th February, and that while certain 
Shop goods of the defend^iit Were in actual custody of the 
appellant as assignee, the Fiscal on the 23rd February seized 
them in execution of plaintiff s judgment, refuses to with* 
draw, and is about to sell* 

The plaintift's case ih oppokitiot^ to th6 motion wais not 
called for by the learned Districft Judge ; there dre therefoird 
no affidavits in answer to appellant's affidavit, and no mate'** 
Kal od #bich I can arrive at any conclusion on an impoi-i 
l:atit question of fact, which seemed to be shadowed forth 
fn the argomebt Bef olfe mh, vr<* whether the houis^ in which 
the Ishbp goods Wr^ seized is the hotise c<^ud5rhed in plain* 
tiff^sac'ion for rebt* i ^sked whether in order to save 
tfotible and cijtettse coiinsel dould boriie to any agreement 
d% t6 the tact with reference X6 that. Counstel, however, 
wiere unable to agree to anything* I do not know therfefbrft 

"Whether {Sl^imiB'i daltn Ms ^itbtn die {^vrHrien^ t>f se6tfo\al 



m 

53 of the Insolvency prrf^M^iff • I ap not prepared to saj 
that under no circumstances can an assignee in insolvency 
obtain an injunction to restrain a judgmant creditor of the 
insolvent from selling under his writt It is quite true that 
IB the ordinary case in which goods s&ized by a plaintiff in 
execution against his defendant are claiiped t>y ^ third party, 
the Court woul() be ino3t pnwilling to iot^rfpre pt the i(f« 
stance of such third party by injunction. See for instanco 
(ktrfiin T* 49pli9 (i)« And the assignee will of course have 
his action after the sale. But the c(aim of an assignee i^ 
insolvency stands on rather a different footing from that of 
the third party in the simple case just now pnt» inasmuch 
8$ the facts on which his claim Qf title to i\x^ good^ i$l 
based are ao much more easily ascertained. Our InsQlveney 
Ordinanctt based on the Eni^lish Act of 18491 appears to 
confer no power on ti^ Dij^tri9t Court tq issue injanctions 
in the master of the iosolvebcy* The ^nglbh QaQ|croptc;r 
ppifrt has that p9Yer an<;l,er the Act of 1^69* and it is | 
powpr frequently eyer,cised. See fop instance /!^ Bishop .(a)* 
I am not prepared to say that wes might t^ot /^pcor in 
yrhich the Qistrict Coort if appealed ;to duly by libel mig^t 
be justified in re^tr^ini^g pn fin a3sigoeis*s appliiQatipn ^q 
execution creditor's 99l9* 

Bolt in the case before m^ I jtbiok that the assignee has a| 
all events mistaken his proceedings* Whatever migh^ hRVt 
been his right had he made his application by filing a libel» 
I think he went wrong in preferring it summarily by way 
of motion in an aoiioo to whioh he is no party. 

appeal dismssed* 

Proptjor tpf tb9 pf^tiff, 3^. ». Vandfifffiraai^n^ 
Proctor for the applicant, fohn QklmM* 




244 

Present— Clabbnck and Dias, JJ. 
K. R. Sbtadu Mohamaih} 

V. 

Mac Caroghbr 
parie G. A. Mao Caroghbr. 

FUcal:^ Execution^^Ordinance ^ sf tS6jf sect. 44— fW/r 
' of debts — Common law proceedhng. 

Tbe procedure for the attachment of debts prescribed by section 44 of 
the Fiscals Ordinance, 1867 does not preclnde a plaintiff from selling 
in the ordinary coarse of execution debts due to his execution debtor, 
but simply provides an alternative and summary proceeding^ foe the pur- 
pose. 

The plaintiff in this case, upon a mortgagee decree» seised 
and sold tn execotion the defendant's interest in a mort* 
gage granted by one Burke to defendant. T. W> Halt 
became the parchaser. Defendant moved, under section 53 
of the Fiscals Ordinance, 1867, to set aside the sale, on the 
ground that the procedure prescribed by section 44 should 
have been adopted by the plaintiff. The District Judge 
(i4. C, Lawrie) having set aside the sale, the plaintiff and 
Hall appealed. The facts more fully appear in the judg^ 
ment of the Supreme Court, 

VdnLtngenherg for the plaintiffs appellant. 
Browne for the purchas^er (T. W> Hall), appellant.^ 
Dornhorst for the defendant, respondent. 

At the close of the argument, their Lordships delivered 
^he opinions embodied in the following written judgments^, 
which were subsequently handed iut 

Clarence, J.— It seems in this^ case that the plaintiff 
got judgment against his defendant and proceeded to 
execution. It is not disputed that the property h^po. 
thecated by defendant to plaintiff included a mortgage 
granted to defendant by one Burke* Plaintiff in executioa 
of his judgment seized that secured debt and sold it, the 
purchaser being Mr Hall. Within 30 days after the sale 
the defendant applied to the District Court to have the sale 
set aside on the ground that there was irregularity in the 
sale, in that the Fiscal did not <' comply with the require- 
ments of sect. 44 of the Fiscals Ordinance'* That sect, say^^ 



245 

** VThen the person against whom execution U decreed t9 
entitled to money due to him by some other party, it shall 
l>e lawful for the party in whose favour such execution is 
decreed to call on the person owing money to his debtor to 
show cause why he should not pay the money due by him 
into Court* If he does not dispute thedebt^ he shall pay 
the saoae into Court within such time as the Court shall 
allow him, of which the Court shall make record, and if 
he fails to do so^ t he Court may issne execution against 
him without any further action or process.^ 

Then follows some procedure applicable to the case in 
which an execution debtor's debtoi disputes his debt« It 
seems to me that this provision dimply offers to the execc^ 
tion creditor an alternatLve> which he may it he pleases 
adopt, but which he is under no obligation to adopt it ho 
prefers to sell the debt as it sta? ds. Acctoding; to the law 
of this couniry debts are saleable. The Fiscals Ordinance 
expressly recognises that. Section .^9 pr vides the means 
and prescribts the manner in which ^uch choses in Rction 
are to be seizedt and section 76 cleaily contempla'es not 
merely the seizure of the debt but also the sale- 1 his 
execution creditor has got judgment against his defendant 
for this money and is forced, by reason of his defendant not 
voluntarily paying of! the judgment, to resort to the FiscaKs 
action, and in my opinion he is entitled to deal with his 
defendant*^ property wherever he finds it and sell it in satis- 
faction of his debt» unless the Ordinance has subjected him 
to any resriction. I think that the 4.4.th clau*<e imposes no 
such restriction* but simply offers him an alternative mode 
of procedure, which he may or may not adopt iu his dis* 
creiion. 

DiAS^ J* concurred. 

Set aside with cosU^ 

Proctor for the plaintiff, f, H. de Saran. 
Proctor for the defendant, fV GoonetULke^ 
Proctor for T. W> BalU 0. VanderwalU 



Present— Di Wit, A. C. J , Clarbmci and l^^ if* 

P. C. \ D. J. 8BMBVIRATHB 

k>]ombo, ? Y. 

6»3ie, J Thesis Sibobo and 5 odMrs. 



tf offence M'^ConvUim^ ofassauii ai common lam^ 

Where a warrant of arrpst against an aocnscd party ga?c the p^m^ 
of the eoroplainin); and abased parties, and stated the cbaige to be 
*^tbrcaUiiing to c?o bodily harm'* : - y . ^ 

BtUL {per Da WbT, A. C. J. and Dias, J.) that the wanant soft* 
dcntly dc^criied a oiminai offence. 

Held also {per CManifci and Pi^9. JJ.. following F» G, K^UnUm^ 
(491818 (1)) that iipon a charge of assaulting a police o^cer in tbfi 
execution (f nis duty, in breach of section 165 of the AdminiMtratioA ^ 
fua ee OrdiHemee^ 1868, tbe aocuaed coald be convicted of a^ aseauli 
at ccmmon law* 

The six defepdants were charge^ wkb ftt assault npon 
the poooplainan^i a Peace OQker, whea engaged in lt|9 
execution of hi^ dotj as snch, vis. in attmnptiQ^ to ||rre8| 
9ne Sameretf(tt^ upon a warrant of arrest issned in J. P* 

Colombp c^ Np. ^»H7» T^^ varrant w^ in the fp)l9ir; 
iof t^rii^s ; 

WARRANT or AFPREHEN610N. 

TlIF 0»W* pn t^ Qpmpl^jnt of Pflo Andi^ de J^lvf^ 

Samfretun^a of Cowdane ••• ••• ••• .j^* •« Coipplaiaaat, 



iatpLfl^o- s*4j 



Don William de Silva Sameretnaga of WaraUppola •«• ••• Aceated* 

T* *» F«««l Qflfew o^ Cowdane 
Take into your custody the body of the above named aocoaed, charg* 
cd with threatening to d« bpdily J^rm ^nd bring him before ^ae pr ap.i^ft 
other competent Just^ pf the Pea^ forthwith. Wrt. retble. i4tb 
April next. 
Given under ray hand at C ei om b a Ibie 31 at day al Marob J889* 

(Signed) J. E. Smart, 

Justice oJ the Peace 
for CoU Dt 

The Police Magistrate (1^. y. 5. Boake) aoqaitted the 



(0 4&C.C.» ii7< 



the arrest was attempted, was bad» tas it did bbt ^Afficicnd^ 
describe the ofiFence with which the ^arty against whom 
It issued was charged. 

The complainant appealed. 

The appeal first came on before ClabbncIs /•* hjr whoa* 
direetton the case was put on for the Full Beach. 

Domhorst, for the complainant, appellant-, cited P. 6; 
Xahtiara 64^188 (i). 

Browne for the defendants^ respondeatSi 

Th^if Lo^ds&tpSi ut the ctose of the «r|(umeiit, delivered 
the o)>tnidn% ebtitained m the following jndgmentSy wliieh 
wtfb kmiditd in on 13th July. 

Di Wsn A.. C. J.^In this case^ which is an appeal from 
tlie Police Goort of Colombo* ft appears that oertain defen" 
dants were eharged before the Police Mas^istrate of thai 
Gourt with having on the and April 1882 assaulted one 
29on fforonis Stnevitainef Peace Oifi^ier of Cuwdane, in the 
execution ot hi< dby, at a time when he went to arrest one 
Don iPHliam De SilvaSam retunge^ Who was charge 1 under 
a warrant dared 31st March 1882, issued by a justice of 
%^ Peace upon th^s complaint of one Don Andris BeSiiva 
Samtrttunget and with having contravened the provisions of 
Section 16^ of Ordiaarrce No. ii of iS68- 

After hearing the evidence of tlie compluinant^ and upon 
Hid warrant of arrest being produced^ the Magistrate ac- 
<}nitted the defendants, holding that the warrant was bad 
foasmuoh as the allegation therein contained, namely 
'* threatening to do bodily harm" was an insufficient de8« 
^ription of a criminal offence. The principal contention 
Msed by respondents* Counsel in this Court was» that the 
Dtme of the person Against whom the threat was uttered 
should have appeared in the warrant. I am of opinion that this 
was not necessary, as the warrant sufficiently described the 
narufeof the offence, the name of the person complaining* 
ifnd the name of the person complained against. Under 
these circumstances, therefore, holding as I do that the 
warrant was perfectly legal, the Police Magistrate is ordered 
to proceied with the case No. 6,310 instituted by the appeU 



(s) 4 ac.€, Yi;. 



248 

lant against Tkegis Singho aad others lor assaulting him in 
ihe execmtion of his duty. 

ClabbkcB) J. — As the other members of the Court 
think that this case should be sent back to the Police Court 
for further proceedings) I am content that that course 
should be adopted, Ic will at any rate foe open to the 
Magistrate^ should the evidence justify such a courset to 
deal with the case after the precedent reported in 4 S. C. 
Rep., 117. But if I were called upon to pronounce a 
decision as to the legality of this warrant, I should wish to 
take time to cou aider that point. 

DiAS, J.-«-The question in this case is, whether the war« 
rant of apprehension under which the prosecutor acted was 
or was not legal. Two questions were argued at the bar 
viz. first, whether or not the defendants could be convicted 
of resisting the complainant in the execution of his duty as 
a Peace Otficet : (this question depends upon the validity oC 
the warrani) 5 and secondly, assuming that the warrant was 
illegal, whether the defendants should have been convicted 
of an assault at common law« On the first question I am 
of opinion that the warrant was legal. lb is a warrant ia 
the form £, given in the Schedule to the Ordinance 11 of 
i86S. It was objected that the warrant was bad inasmuch 
as it did not state the name of the party against whom the 
threat was used. The answer to this object ioh is, that the 
Stat utory form of the warrant does not require it. Eveu if 
the form required it, I think there is sufficient on the face 
of the warrant to indicate the person against whom the 
threat was used. The names of the complaining and accused 
parties are inserted in ihe warrant, and it may be reasonably 
presumed that the threat was used by the accused party 
against the complaining piriy. On the second question I 
agrte with the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Cayletft reported 
in the 4th Volume of the ^Supreme Court Reports, p. 118, 
that the defendants can be found guilty of common assault 
on this plaint* 

Under these circumstances I agree with the rest of the 
Court that the case should be sent back to be proceeded 
with in due course. 

Set eiside- 
I The defendants were on 14th August 188a tried by the 



same Magistrate and conricted both of the resistance 
charged and of oonnmoQ aasaalt, but ** iinder 'circamstances 
oi great aggravation*" Tkejr were fined one rupee each.] 



if^ mid 2nd Marchf i88j^ 

Present^OLARUrci) J. 

D. C. \ F. M. Arookiamvuiab 
Colombo, > V. 

^ ^^45^ ^ ^- ^* Sambo and another. 



Hscal-^Pvcedure to set aside sale in execution'^ Or dintpic^ 
4 of 1M7, sect' i3 ^Summary proceedings ^'Stalemeni of 
injections* 

Observations on the coarse to be adopted in proceeding tinder aection 
^ of the PiseaU Ordinaneej 1867 to have a Fiscars sale in execution 
set aside for irregularity. 

This was an action on a promissory note for Rs. jco 
against a man and wife* and judgment was on 12th June 
1 8Sa catered for the plaintiff in default of defendants ap- 
peiring* Upon writs of execution issued the Fiscal of 
Kandy seised and sold, on 17th October i88i> certain land 
iA the defendants'* On 23rd November 1882, the first 
<Sefendant moved (with notice to the purchaser at the 
Fiscars sale) that it might be entered of record that he im- 
peached the Fiscal's sale, and moved to read and file the 
affidavit of ist defendant. This affidavit averred that, 
though the land sold was worth over Rs. i^ooo, there had 
been no advertisement of the sale in the Gazette or any 
newspaper ; and that there had only been two bidders at 
the sale* 

The District Judge (T. Berwick) disallowed the motion 
10 the following terms : 

This motion is a superfluity (and therefore a mischief) and made 
under a misconception of the nature of the action intended and the 
{»ropcr procedure thercta. 



250 

The Coait b itaforlned that the defendants' propcrtjr Has been aeiied 
and sold under the writ o{ oecation on the judgment in this suit, and 
tl^at the defendant desires to get this sale set aside on grounds o{ irie« 
gularity and tnforn]a.lity» which be intends to allege and prove in doe 
course. There are two— or I should rather say, three-^modes of pro« 
oedure appropriate to this action : the defendant might, on satisfying 
the Cooit by et parlt proof that there are sufficient grounds primA 
facie for the proceeding, mo?e the Court for a Rale Nisi on the various 
parties interested, to have the sale set aside and fresh proceedings taken 
on the writ ; or, second, he might simply move the Court to set aside 
the sale, givmg due notice of his motion, when parties would be heard 
thereon. In either of these cases, if the matter be contested, the Court 
would hear evMence on both sides if necessary, either by affidavit or vivA 
voce. To neither of these modes of procedure is the present motion 
appropriate. 

There is a third mode of procedore, however, which is that which 
probably lurks in the defendant's mind, and connected with the provi. 
sion in the FUeals Ordiuanetf which is in these words ; '* It shall be 
open to the debtor impeaching such sale on the ground of irregularity 
or informality to state or report to the Court his objections to the sale 
being confirmed, and the Court having inquired into the same sum- 
marily shall either confirm or disallow the sale as to it shall appear 
just and reasonable.^* The intended meaning of the word ** sum ma* 
lily'* baffles roe. In England it means without the jury which the 
Common Law requires. The words " disallow the sale*' I fancy to 
mean, * Set aside the sale." If the defendant desires to proceed under this 
provision bis course is simple and plain. He ought to file a paper or 
pleading setting out the grounds of law or allegations of fact on whicti 
he relies in support of the setting aside or non-confirmation of the sale. 
This Court will not inquire into these summarily, but will require the 
presence of both parties (or notice to them) before it either confirms or 
disallows the sale ; and therefore the hearmg of any testimony either 
vitd voce or by affidavit, when or before these allegations are filed* 
would be altogether out of time. Having filed his allegatiops (upon 
the proper stamp which pleadings require) which should conclude with 
the prayer that the sale be set aside and cancelled (or, in the cu rious 
language of the Ordinance, ** disallowed"), he can next use the ordinary 
procedure for bringing the other parties mterested into Court, and for 
obtaining a decision on his prayer. If they do not appear on due 
notice, bis application will t>e allowed as of course, or on such ex parte 
evidence as the Court may think proper. If they do appear, the Court 
will hear and decide upon such evidence, if any, as is offered on the 
respective sides. 

It is obvious that the first branch of the motion before me, viz. that 
the defendant impeaches (or intends to impeach) the sale, is altogether 
inappropriate to the procedure just pointed out, and it is therefore dis- 
allowed. 

In disallowing, as I also do, the second branch of the motion, viz* 
for liberty to read and file certain affidavits, I take the opportunity to 
make the following observations. First, premising that the motion was 
originally made simply to file, and not to read and file, the affidavits-— 
By filing affidavits you record testimony. No testimony can be recorded 
unless it has been given, whether vivd voce in the witness box, or 
otherwise. Therefore no affidavits can be filed until they have been 
read. It was therefore very necessary to insert the word '* read** ' in 
making the motion, and I draw the attention of the local profession 
to ibis, because of the prevailing mis^oonce^ition on the subject. 



251 

As Id " reading'* the affidaYits that is to say as to oflerinff certain 

testimony— (whether vivd voee^ by witnesses in the box^ or document 

tary, is of no consequence)— there is only one class of cases in which 

testimony can bcreceived behind the backs of the other parties interest* 

cd ; anH that is, where it is offered as primA facie e?i(ience to justify 

the granting ot a conditional Rule, or other purely tx parte proceeding : 

a.', for example, an application for injunction very commonly is. You 

do not file your proof with an action for ejectment, but you reserve 

your proof till the day of trial. When both parties are before the 

Court, or have been cited, and the question b cotUesUdt is the proper 

time to offer your testimony. If there is no contest and the point is 

yielded, no evidence is required except in the few cases when the party 

is absent on citation and the Court thinks ex parU evidence desirable.. 

It b only necessary to state these propositions to show that the propo« 

sal to tender affidavits in the present proceeding at the present time is 

altogether misconceived and a waste of stamps. 

The plaintiff and first defendant appealed.. 
De Saram, for the appellants. 

Cur. adv. vtdt, 

(and March)* Clarbnov, J.«-I do not think that there 
need be any difficulty in carrying into effect the provisions 
of the 53rd section of the Ordinance with regard to the im^ 
peaching of execution sales- The party who desires to 
impeach the sale is to place his objections before the Court f 
within the 30 days. The intention is> that he should lay 
before the^ Court a definite statement of his objectiooa^ 
committing himself definitely to specific objections* 1 he 
best method of doing this will undoubtedly be to present j 
to the Court a written statement of the objections relied on* 
The words of the enactment are ^ state or report*^ The 
^Legislature probably had in contemplation that cases wouM 
arise (and in Courts of Requests actions* for example* such 
instances are probably not luicommon) in which the party 
may be without professional assistance and may be unable 
to write. It is no doubt open to a party in such case to 
present his objections to the Court orally, when the Court 
will of course reduce them to writing. The best course 
undoubtedly is to present to the Court a written statement 
of the objections, and this in District Court cases there will 
usually be no difficulty in doing* 

I am informed by counsel that this is the course which 
was adopted by the appellants in the present instance, but 
as no written statement of objections is now to be found in 



*he paper book,* I ain tmable to eipreaa atiy •piiuoll oa tfta^ 
docameoi ao preaen'ed to the Coart- 

The objecting party haviag tbos lodeed bia objectiooa» the 
next atep ta to take order for their disenssion, always aap^ 
poaing that the Court does aot fiod them to be an their face: 
nntenablcr in which caact of coorae* thej maj be at once 
repelled. Notiee most, of coorse, be giten to all other par« * 
ties interested, and on the day fixed for the discossion the 
aereral partiea may adduce their evidence in aapport of and 
in opposition to the objections. It hardly needs to be said 
that when a party intends to ase affidavits the proper course 
IB to give copies beforehand to the other side. '1 he ioqairy 
into the objections is to be ^summary.*'' There is, [ Ihinki^ 
ao reasonable doobt as to what is meant by '* sammary** 
proceedings, vis. proceedings as brief and as devoid of techni^ 
calities or formalities of procedare as may be foand com« 
patible with the folt investigation of the matter. The 
learned District Judge ha^ referred to an instance, and 
nothing more, of proceedings in England which fall .withio 
the category of summary proceedings. 

If it be the fact that appellants tendered to the Bistrict 
Court a written statement of the objections in virtue ot 
which they proposed to knpeach this sale, they adbpted ar 
proper coarse. The motion noted as to be made by plain.^ 
tiflE'a Proctor, Mr. O. Perera, however, is ilLconcetved. 

I have already pointed out the proper course to be taken 
in lodging the objections. I suppose that the District 
Judge has rejected that motionr but if I were simply to dis* 
miss this appeal the objecting panics would be out of time 
with their objections if any order has been made rejecting 
them. It does not clearly appear what order has beei> 
made. I shall assume that appellants have laid before the 



* The followitifir docunient is stitched into the paper, book (p 34) r 
110.86,645 16th Nov. 1883. Mr. Charles Perera 6les a stateoiciu of 
objections to the sale o{ defendant's prouertyr, to wit, Bin^apitiya Wcll- 
candaCumbure ... ^ .„ held on 17th Oct 1 88 3» being 

Statement of Objections irrespective of Arguments to be urged' 
at discussion. 



I. The above property is worth from Rs. 1.000 to Rs. 1,500 and „_ 
t published in the Government GavetU as required by.tbe Ordinance. 
a. No notice of sale of the said property was given either to- the 
plaintiff or to his proctor. 

5. The Fiftal of Kandy was asked by plaintifTs agent not to sell 
Ibt said property* 

(Signed) J.W. Macx, 

Sccfctavy. 



258 

District Ocmrt saase •bjeocioai» not noir t« be fonod to «b^ 
|Niper-book. 

8ei aside' 
Vnitor for the plaintiff i Charles Pm-era. 



i^h Septemher, 1882, gih March and i%th Aprils 1883. 
Pre96nt--Dft W«t, A. C. J.»Clabbngi and Dias, JJ, 



D. C. % Q. MaoCarqohbr 
Eandy» > v, 

89' 797* ^ J* P- Bakbr aod another. 

Possessory action^ Nature of the possesnon necessary-^ 
AHliiy of an agent, who has possessed in right of the domioBS^ 
io maintain possessory action* 

M^ the dWMr of tfvo ooflee estates, sokl an unditided half ahare dt 
Haesn to B , «ho aave M. a morti^ge for ttie purchase aroonnt over the 
prcpcrrty so sold on and July 1876. M. died. leaYtn^; his brother the 
plaintiff (who was In England) his eiecutor, and thereafier B. continued 
in the sole occupation and management of the estates* At B.*s request 
plaintiff c-irae out to Ceylon, and toolc charge of the two estates ia 
January 1880. and continued with B.'s consent in the sole occupation 
knd management of them till Septemoer i88i» plaintiff himself finding 
«U necessary fands tor their upkeep. In July 1880 plaintiff raised such 
lands on a mortgage of M/s half share, which (in Auf^u^t 1881) was 
aold in execution under the mortsrage debt* and purchased by second 
defendant. In June 1881 plaintiff bad again mortj^fred M.'s half 
share to first defendant. In Septeroier 1881 plaintiff was deprived of 
his possession of the estates by T, who adrd as the agent of the de« 
fendants and with B.*s knowledge and consent, to plaintiff's knowledge. 

Held {per Da Wbt, A. C. J. aod Clarbncs, J , disseutunitt Dias, J.) 
^att plamtiff's occupation of B.'s half share having been in the charac 
ter of agmt for B., the right to mainutn a possessory actbn In respect 
■of that shate was B.*s and not plaintiff's. 

Per UiAs, J ^-Plaintiff, having been in possession of an undivided 
•half share of the estates for a year and a day, when be was forcibly 
dispossessed, was entitled to be restored to posvession, and to recover 
damages for the forcible dbpossessbn. 

This was a possessory action, ia which the plaintiff 
sought to be restored to the possession of an nndivided half 
share of each of two estates, Esperanza and Eringobragh* 
The facts are sutiicisntly disclosed in the following jadg - 
ment of the Court beloWt and in that of the appellate 
Oonrt. 

(5rd April 1882). Lawrib, D. J.— -There are two quea* 



254 

ttoos of fact to be determined here : First, was the plaintiff 
in possession of Esperanza and Eringobragh estates for a 
year and a day prior to September iSii ? And, secondly 9 
was he forcibly dispossessed by the defendants ? If he has 
succeeded in establishing both these facts, then, it follows, 
1 think, that he is entitled to a possessory judgment, even 
though the plaintiff's right to the land is doubtful. As to 
possession, I think there can be no doubt that Mr. Mac 
Carogher was in sole possession of the estates from Janu- 
ary 1880 tiM September 1881. He was owner of an en« 
divided half, and held a mortgage over the other half, and 
the owner and mortgat^cr of that half had speciallv requested 
him to come from England and take charge* The plaintifiTis 
right, title and interest in an undivided half share of the 
estates was sold by the Fiscal on the a 3rd August 1881, 
and was purchased by Mr. Hall. I am not aware whether 
Mr. Hatl has got a transfer from the Fiscal. None has 
been produced. On ipvh September 1881, Mr. Tytler 
arrived on the estate and handed to plaintiff a letter ia 
these terms : — ^*This is to inform you that the bearer, Mr« 
W, A. Tytler » calls to take over charge of Esperanza and 
Eringobragh estates, and we have to request you will be 
good enough to hand over the properties to him.'' This 
letter was signed by Mr. Hull, purchaser at Fiscal's sale» 
and John F. Baker, mortgagee* Plaintiff objected to give 
up possession, and it was not until the 29th September* 
when Mr. Burke came to the estate, that the plaintiff so far 
yielded as to give to Mr. Tytler the keys of the store. To 
these keys, Tytler, as acting for the owners of an undivided 
half, was equally entitled with the plaintiff. I have read 
the accounts of what happened, as narrated by the three 
persons present, the plaintiff, Mr. Tytler, and Mr. Burke, 
and I am of opinion that nothing was done by the plaintiff 
which implied consent to his losing possession. Indeed, 
by giving up the keyp, which he could not well retain ex* 
elusive possession of, he was not giving up possession of the 
land. The ouster was not committed then, but afterwards 
gradually by Tytler*s taking the whole management, in pick" 
ing all the crop without consulting the plaintiff or account" 
ing to him. Notwithstanding the evidence called by the 
defendant, I decide the second question of fact for the plain- 
tiff. 1 hold it proved that the ouster was by Mr. Tytler 
acting |pr defendants, assisted no doubt by Burke, but 
a&sisted by him on behalf of these defendaints. They have 



255 

atiice then got all the crop, and it is, I think, mere 'pretence 
to saj that Burke possesses or that Tytler acts Cor hicn. 
Since the plaintiff lost possession, his right, title, and in- 
terest as creditor in a mortgage over an undivided half of 
these estates granted to his deceased brother by Burke was 
sold by the Fiscal, and was purchased by Hall on the 3rd 
March 1882. Some months afrer, this action was raised. 
The position of Mr. Burke with regard to the estate, and 
with regard to the mortgage, seems full of doubt. With 
regard to the estate, he never paid a penny for it, but still 
he holds (or held) a transfer for half share. He threatened 
to abandon it after Mr. Robert MacGarogher*s death, and it 
was at his urgent request that the plaintiff came out from 
home, and took charge- Since then Burke seems to have 
contributed nothing to the upkeep, but to have let the whole 
burden fall on Mr. George MacCarogher. With regard to 
the mortgage bond, just when the plaintiff's interest on i^• 
as creditor was about to be sold. Mr- Burke objected to the 
sale on the ground that the debt had been discharged* The 
plaintiff seems to me to be in some risk of losing every- 
thing. I am bound in this case to give him a part of the 
remedy he claims. I think he should have a possessory 
judgment for an undivided half of the land. The defen* 
dams have no right or title to deny him that. They have 
shewn no right to possess more than half. They have 
without right obtained possession of the whole, possession 
gained not qui'e, perhaps, by physical force, but with a 
threat of force and under compulsion of a kind quite as 
formidable as force. If the p ainn'ff gets this judgment, he 
will at least be in a position to raise questions between him 
and Burke. The defendants now interpose between Burke 
and the plaintiff ; when their interposition is removed, the 
parties will be on a fairer relative position. During the 
possession by Mr. Tytler, the plaintiff has not contributed 
anything to the maintenance of the estates. Indeed it 
seems clear that his funds were exhausted, and I cannot 
give him any substantial damages. Indeed, it does not 
seem to me to be a case for daroaees at all. 

Possessory judgment to be entered for plaintiff without 
damages, and with costs in the second class. 

Both partjes appealed against this juds^ment. The appeal 
was first argued on 19th September 1882 before Cljlrbncb 
and DiAS, JJ. Their lord^-hips differing in opinion^ Coun' 



256 

9el sabseqaently agreed to take the decision of Db Wky, 
A. 0- J.f witfaoat further argament. 

Gremar for the plaintiff, appellaol. 
Browne for the defendants, appellaots* 

Cvr. adV' vulL 

The Court delivered jadgment on nth April 1883. 

Clarbmgk, J.— This is in sabstance a poa a egaoiy action, 
in which plaintiff seeks to be restored to possession of sea 
nndivided half share of two coffee estates^ and also prays 
for damages against the defendants, viz., a sam of Rs. 6»500» 
which he claims as the value of half the crop, they havings 
taken the whole. 

The facts which led up to the acts complained of appear 
to be these: Plaintiff's brother owned the two estates and 
sold an undivided half share to one Burke- Burke paid 
down none of the purchase money, but gave plaintiflTs 
brother a mortgage for the amount, Bs. 40,000, bearing 
date the 2nd July, 1876. Plaintiff's brocher died, it does 
not appear precisely when, and plaintiff is now Itis Executor* 
In ib79 Burke had no funds wherewith to work the estates* 
and solicited plaintiff to come out from home, threatening 
to abandon the estates. Plaintiff came out in July 1879, 
and in Januaty i88o entered i to occupation of tbe estates, 
and continued in the occupation and management of the 
entirety of the estates until September 1881, when occurred 
the acts of which plaintiff now complains. While plaintiff 
was thus in occupation Burke found no funds for the up* 
keep of the estates, and such funds as were provided were 
provided by plaintiff. 

All this was with Burke's assent. In July i880| plaintiff 
obtained advances for ihe upkeep of the estates from one 
Seyado* to whon he mortgaged his brother's remaining 
half of the estates. The crop, however, did not meet the 
expenditure, and in August ihSf that remaining half of the 
, estates was seized under writ of Seyados and sold to second 
defendant. In June 1881 plaintiff executed a mortgage 
bond in favor of 1st defendant, by which he purported to 
mortgage his brother's remaining half of the estates to ist 
defendant in consideration of xst defendant guaranteeing a 
debt due to the Oriental Bank Corporation by Burk^ and 
plaintiff's brother or plaintiff* 



257 

This bond parported to secure sucb payments as nsight 
thereafter be made by jst defendant, and recited that plains 
tifif was in possession and had found funds for working the 
estates 

On the v7th September 1881 a Mr. lytler came to the 
estates, wiih the Jetter set out in the learned District 
Judge's Judgment, in which 2nd defendant as " purchaser 
at Fiscal*s sale*' and ist defendant as '* mortgagee'* inform^ 
ed the plaintiff that Mr. Tytler had come to take over 
charge of the estates, and requested plaintiff to hand over 
Uie properties to him* The purchase here referred to 
seems to have been 2nd defendant's purchase of plaintiff's 
brother's half share, and the mortgage seems to have been 
the security created by Burke in June ! 881, in favour of ist 
defendant. What followed is described by plaintiff (pp lot 
I j). The learned District Judge finds upon the evidence 
that both Tytler and Burke acted on behalf of defendants* 

At the tia^ when this interference with plaintiff *s occu<« 
pation of the estates took place, the plaintiff's right to the 
unsold half was good^ but defendants certainly had no right 
to interfere with the occupation of any one who might be 
in occupation in respect of Burke's half. I fail, however, 
to see that a possessory action is maintainable by plaintiff 
in respect of Burke's half. Plaintiff by arrangement with 
Burke lived on ihe estates and worked them, and found all 
the money which was found for that purpose. When 
plaintiff's own half was taken from him, there remained to 
him nothing except his mortgage over Burke's half for the 
Rs. 40,000, and Burke^s debt to him in respect of the funds 
which he had found. His occupation of (he estates was 
merely in the character of agent for Burke, and though 
Burke would be entitled to assistance against any interfere 
ence with his enjoyment, either in person or by deputy, of 
his half share, the right is in my opinion Burke's and not 
plaintiff's* 

The case is probably a hard one on plaintiff, who seems 
to have expended money on the entire estates. The truth 
probably is that the estates were worth little, if anything* 
when plaintiff's brother sold the half to Burke, a transaction 
which on its face amounted to a loan of Rs. 40,000 on the 
security of coffee property worth the same amount, at six 
per cent. Bat however that may be, it appears to me that 
plaintiff is not entitled to the remedy which he seeks in the 
form of a declaraiiou of his right to remain in possession^ 



258 

or an order restoring him to possession* I am not* how* 
ever, clear that plaintiff bad not, to the amount of half the 
sam which he may have expended on the raising of the crop 
which defendants took, some right of lien or legal hypothec 
over that crop* which he should still retain if his deprivation 
of control over the crop is to be considered as having been 
effected by compulsion. There seems, however, to have 
been no attempt to ascertain how much is due to plaintiflf 
for outlay, and no account decree is asked for. I think, 
therefore, that we must regard plaintiff as having failed to 
establish any title to relief on this head also* T think that 
the order in appeal should be :^ 

Set aside. Dismiss plaintiff*s claim to a declaration that 
he is entitled to possession of one half of " Espeianza** and 
*' Eringobragh" estates. 

Absolve defendants from the instance imth regard to plains 
tiff's claim of damages. Plaintiff to pay defendants* costs in 
loth Courts* 

DiAS, J.— This is a possessory suit by the plaintiff to be 
restored to possession of an undivided half of two coffee 
estates, of which he has been forcibly dispossessed. The 
plaintiff also claims Rst 6,500 as damages. The entirety of 
the two estates originally belonged to the plaintiff's brother, 
who somewhere in 1876 sold an undivided half thereof to 
one Burke, who entered into possession and reiAained in 
possession till iSjg* In 1879 Burke, beiag unable to carry 
on the cultivation, wrote to plaintiff who was then in 
England to oome and take charge of the property. Plain, 
tiff came out in July 1879, ^^^ iQ January 1880 entered 
into possession and carried on the cultivation till September 
188 1, when he was forcibly dispossessed by the defendants 
or their Agent, one Mr. Tytler, The plaintiffs brother 
having sold a half to Burke, the remainder passed to p1ain« 
tiff under his brother's will ; that half seems to have been 
sold on a writ of execution and purchased by the snd defen^ 
dant. 

The question for consideration is, whether in September 
1 88 1, when he was forcibly dispossessed by the defendants, 
the plaintiff was in lawf al possession of an undivided moiety 
of the estates* This issue was found by the District Judge 
in the affirmative, and that finding is fully borne out by the 
recorded evidence. 



259 

This case is governed by the Roman Dutch law, there 
being no Kandyan law on the matter. All the Dutch 
aathorities agree on this, that a person who has been in 
lawful possession for a year and a dav, and has been unlaw* 
fully and forcibly dispossessed by another, is entitled to be 
restored to possession if application should be made to a 
Court within one year of such dispossession (i). The po8« 
session upon which such a remedy can be furnished is 
defined by FanderLinden as " a possession obtained neither 
secretly, nor by force, nor on condition of quitting on first 
notice." This definition of Pander Linden's is founded on 
the interdict unde vi (a). All the Dutch authorities which 
I had access to agree that the possession must be a lawful 
possession. This is reasonable enough, as otherwise the 
possession of a robber will entitle him to the same remedy 
(3). FanderLinden, however, goes further and lays down 
that even a maidjide possessor is entitled to this remedy 
(4). I am, therefore, of opinion that in September 1881 
the plaintiff was in lawful possession of an undivided 
moiety of the estates* when he was unlawfully and forcibly 
dispossessed by the defendants, and that the learned Judge 
was right in decreeing restoration to plaintiff. The defen^ 
dants' appeal must, therefore, be dismissed. 

The plaintiff also appeals against that part of the judg^ 
ment which disallows his claim for damages. I think the 
plaintiff's appeal must succeed, and he is entitled to dama.. 
ges consequent on the wrongful dispossession on the part 
of the defendants. The case, I think^ should go back for 
further hearing and adjudication on this points The de- 
fendants should pay all costs in both Courts. 

Db Wbt, a. C. J.^This case was argued before the 
Senior and Junior Puisne Judges,, and as they cannot agree 
upon their Judgment, the matter has been referred to me. 

After a careful perusal and consideration of the evidence 
and the Judgments of both my learned brethren, I am of 
opinion with my brother Clabbncb that there should be 
absolution from the instance, considering, as I do, that the 

(i) VanderUnden, InstiL, Henry's Trans., p 185. 

(3) Trayner's Latin Maxims, p 597^ Voet, ad Pand,, 43. i6. 3. 
Ortolan's Raman Law, para. 1310, P39i. Hunter's Roman Law, ist 
Ed., p 105. 

(3) See farther 3 Menzies' Cape Reports, 343, 343. Trajnei's Laiin 
Maxims, 6o3. 

(4) Van Leeuweo, Comm,, Kotzc*s Trans., p X98L 



260 

plaintiff has entirely mistaken his remedy. I am, moreOTer, 
of opinion that plaintiff should be ordered to pay defen- 
dants' costs in this Court as well as in the Court below. 

Set aside. Decree as formum 
lated by CLABBiiCB> J. 

Proctor lor the plaintiff, Edwin Beven. 
Proctor for the defendant, Wm. GoonetilUke. 



12th and 26th April, 1885. 

Present'-'DiAS, J. 

C. R. 1 J. W. A. Wright 

20,351. 3 The Municipal Council ofKahdt. 

Assessment for Police tax, objection to^^Ordinance 5 of 
1867, sect- i^IAmitation — Notice of action'^ Ordinance ij 
of i%6 insect. 177. 

PlaintifP, on ist March 1883, received ootioe tbat the Manicipal 
Council of Kandyy the defendaat, bad assessed plaintiff's bouse as of 
the annual value of Rs. 900, for the purposes of the^taK for maintain « 
ing the Police in the town. On 3rd Marcfo, and again on ^t\\ and 
33rd August, 1882, the plaintiff protested against this assessment as 
excessive; and on I9tb September was informed that the assessment 
had been reduced to Ks. 800. On 3rd October 1882, plaintiff brought 
the present action, praying that the assessment might be reduced to- 
Rs. 600, tb£ real value of the house. 

Held ^affirming the decision of the Court below), that the action wa» 
not maintainable, no notice of action having been g^ivcn to the defen. 
danf, as required by section 177 of the Municipal OoundLs Ordinance, 
1865. 

Held also, that the present action, embodying the objection to the 
assessment, was barred by section i of Ordinance 5 of 1867, not having 
been commenced within 15 days of the receipt of uotice of assessmenu 

Plaintiff sought by this action to have the assessment of 
the annual value of his house at Rs. 800 reduced to its real 
value, Rs. 600. Plaintiff had on ist March 1881 received 
notice of an assessment at Rs. 900, and had objected to its 
as excessive oh 3rd March, and on 7th and 23Td August,. 
1882, He received no reply to his letters till 19th Sep- 
tember, when ha was informed that the assessment had 
been reduced to Rs. 800. The present action was then 
brought on 3rd October i88a. The Court below (T. M. 



261 

Gibson, CommissioQer) dismissed f>laintiS's ac*ion, holding- 
that it was not maintaioable* by reason of no notice of action 
having been given in terras of section 177 of the Municipal 
Councils Ordinance, 1865* and by reason that it h-id not 
been com roeoced within 15 days of ist March 1882 (when 
plaintiff had received notice of the original assessment) as 
required by sect* i> Ordinance 5 of 1867. 

Plaintiff appealed. 

8ampayo (Domfwrsi with hira)> for the appellant— -The 
Ordinance of 1867 rt quires the householder *' to object*' : 
plaintiff, by bringing an action in ordinary course^ has in 
effect objected to the assessment* If, then, the action be 
treated (as it evidently was meant to be) as an '^ objection'* 
to assessment, it wonid be absurd to require one month's 
notice, when the objection haa to be taken within 1 5 days. 
Again, the objection was taken in time, because the assess^ 
ment to which the aciion takes t*xception is not the assess- 
ment of whidi plaintiff received notice on ist March, but 
the new assessment fixed by the defendant's letter of jpth 
September. That letter reduced the annual value from 
Rs. 900 to Rs. 800, and was therefore a new assessment^ 
to which plaintiff was entitled to object anew* 

Fan LoMgenhergt for the de^endant^ respondent— The 
Court, before which the objection is lodged^ has to ^ decide 
upon such objection in a summary way.'* This clearly con- 
templales some proceeding more short and simple than an 
cx-diaary action. Plaintiff's original objection was to the 
excess of ils* 300 over the Bs. 600 which he considered 
the true value. That objection was lost by not being taken 
within I j days. Plaintiff now seeks to repeat his objection 
to Rs* aoo of those Rs. 300. The action {quA action) is 
also barred by section 177 of the Municipal Councils Ordi^ 
nancBi 1865, not having been begun withiu 3 months of the 
cause of action accraing* 

Cur, adv. vulL 

(a6th April). Dias, J.— This is a proceedin&r under the 
ist section of the Ordinance No. j of 1867. That section 
gives a summary remedy to a party dissatisfied with the 
assessment of his land for the maintenance of the Police 
Force. But the plaintiff in this case proceeds against the 



262 

Manicipal Coancil by action* No objection on this score 
was taken by the defendant, and I shall treat the plaint as 
a sammary application nnder the Ordinance* The plaintiff's 
house was assessed by the Manicipal Coancil at lis 900 a 
year. Of this assessment notice was given to the plaintiff 
on the 1st of March i88a. The plaintiff protested against 
the assessment on the 3rd March 1882 and again on the 
7th and 93rd of August, and on the 19th of September he 
was informed by the Manicipal Coancil that the assessment 
would be reduced from Rs. 900 to Rs. 800 per annum* 
The plaintiff says that the proper annual value of his honse 
is Rs. 600, and he prays the Court to reduce the assessment 
to that amount. The defendant pleads that he did not 
receive the notice required by the 177th clause of Ordinance 
17 of 1865, and he farther pleads that nnder the 1st sectioa 
of Ordinance 5 of 1867 the plaintiff's right» if any, is 
barred. The learned Commissioner decided in favour of the 
defendant, and I think that decision is right. The plaintiff 
had notice of the assessment on the ist of March 1882 and 
he did not lile his plaint till the 3rd October, and under the 
ist section of the Ordinance the plaint or application to the 
Court should have been made within ij days of the assess" 
ment and notice thereof. It was urged for the appellant 
that the delay is owing to the defendant who did not answer 
the plaintiff's letter of the 3rd of March till the 19th of 
September. The Ordinance, however, makes no distinction, 
and there is nothing in the Ordinance which will ope« 
rate as an excuse for not taking action within 15 days. 
I think the opinion oi the learned Commis^oner on the 
two objections taken by the defendant under the 17 7^^ 
section of the Ordinance 17 of 1865 and the ist sectioa of 
the Ordinance j of 1867 is right. 



Affirmed^ 



Proctor for the plaintiff, y. D. yonklaas- 
Proctor for the defendant^ y* W. Swan* 



263 

j^ih and iSth March, 1883. 

Present-— Db Wet, A. C. J., Clakence and Dias, J j. 

D. C. > A. A. I. Pbbera and another 
Chilaw, > ▼. 

33>482. J 0. WijBSiNOHS and others. 

Stamp — Deficiency of stamp ^Stamping at trial on pny* 
ment of penalty — ** Original** " Duplicate^* ** Notary* s Pro' 
tocol** — Evidence -^Ordinance ig of iv> ^ h-^ Ordinance 2^ of 
1871, sects* $6y 39 and 40. 

The value of the stamps to be affixed to an instrument must be 
determined by the law in force at the date of the instrument. But 
when an instrument, upon its tender in evidence, is held to be insutf- 
ciently stamped, the procedure for stamping it at the trial, and the 
amount of penalty payable, must be deiermined by the stamp law in 
force at the time of such tender. 

When a notarial instrument has been executed in three copies (called 
respeaively the "Original," "Duplicate," and "Notary's Protocol";, 
neither of these copies is receivable in evidence unless and until the proper 
stamp duty has been paid upon each and every copy. 

The plaintiffs in this case appealed against a judgment of 
the District Court (ff. Neuill, Judge) nonsuiting them with 
costs. The facts material to this report appear in the judg- 
ment of Clarbnob, J. 

Ferdinands* A. Q. A., {Grenier with him) for the plain« 
tiffs, appellants. 

VanLangenberg (Seneviratne with him) for the defendants' 
respondcQis. 

Cur* adv. vult- 

(a 8th March). Clabbncb* J. — This case comes in ap« 
peal under the tollowing circumstances- The action is one 
in which the title to land is in issue. Amongst the matters 
upon which plaintiffs seek to found title is a certain docu- 
ment, which is described by the District Judge as marked 
" letter F," and which would appear to bear date the 15th 
September 1857. The plaintiffs, it seems, have to prove 
that deed, if it be necessary for the purposes of their case 
that it be received in evidence. The District Judj;e has 
expressed himself as unable to decide without the instru. 
ment. There being as yet no finding on any other pari of 
the evidence, no finding at all in fact, we are not in a posi- 
tion to say how the case stands. If it be the fact (whether 
or no it is the fact we do not know) that plaintiffs cannot 



264 

establish their title wkbout tbis iostrament» then in the 
absence of the instrument the plaintiffs' action must fail ; 
and plaintiffs in fact are appealing^ against a nonsuit* 

J t seems, however, that there has been some misunder* 
standing in the District Court with respect to the proof of 
this instrument. Tie plaintiffs first of all tendeied what 
has been referred to on the argument of this appeal as ** the 
Duplicate,*' vis that copy of the instrument which the 
Notary had to regain for the purpose of sending it later oa 
to the Registrar General or to the District Court* to be thers 
filed and indexed. Notarial instruments were in 18579 
under the Ordi ance of ]8<;a, asthey now are under the 
later Ordinances, executed in triplicate, the three copies con« 
sisting of, first, the copy delivered out by the Notary to the 
parties, which has been referred to in the argument of this 
appeal as ** the Original*' ; second, the copy which the 
Notary retains for the purpose of sending it in to be filed 
at a Central Office, and which has been referred to as *' the 
Duplicate"; third, the copy which the Notary retains in 
his own possession^ which in this country is popularly styled 
*'the Notar\*s Protocol.'* It appears that at the trial on 
September ist lai»t, thtt plaintiffs produced what has been 
described as *' the Duplicate.'* It is admitted that this was 
insufficiently stamped ; but plaintiffs were and still are 
ready to pay the deficient duty and the penalty, and so 
stamp the instrument and render it admissible. An an- 
fortunate misunderstanding, however, seems to have arisen 
with reference to the procedure and requirements m that 
behalt\ 

The Stamp Ordinance now in force is the Ordinance 23 
of 187 1. So f»r as there may be any question, what value 
of stamps does this instrument require, we must have re« 
course to the Ordinance 19 of 135a, which was the Stanap 
Ordinance in force at the date borne by the instrument* 
But in my opinion all questions as to the procedure neces- 
sary for supplying a deficiency of stamp duty, and so 
render'Ug the instrument admissible in evidence, must be 
determined by r* ference to the OrJinance in force at the 
time when the instrument is tendered iu evidence* I think 
also that the in'ention of the Legislature is that the penalty 
payable should be the penalty prescribed by the Ordinance 
of 1 87 1. Little, however, turns on that, since the penalty 
is the same under each Ordinance> subject to a possible 
reduction. 



265 

It is agreed that the " Duplicate" is not sufficiently stamp-. 

ed. The District Judge then had to ascertain, by reference. 

to the Ordinance of 1852, what was the proper stamp duty. 

For the procedure to be adopted after that, we must go to the 

Ordinance of 1871, The Ordinance of 1871, as Counsel 
observed during the argument of the appeal, is not very, 
clearly framed, but I think its intention can be discovered* 
Sections 39. 40 deal with instruments tendered in evidence 
at the trial and then discovered to be insuificiently stamps 
ed. The party tendering the instrument is to pay into. 
Court the amount of the deficient duty (which amount the 
Judge is to determine) plus the penalty required by this 
Ordinance, |7/if5 an additional penalty of five rupees. Sec* 
tion 41 empowers the Judge to allow the party seven days' 
time to find the money, but with that provision we are not 
now concerned. The party, then* has to pay the deficiency 
of duty, plnf Rs. 5, plus the penalty required by the Ordi^ 
fiance. Now there is> no doubt> a little difficulty about the 
determination of that penalty. We have to go to the 36th 
section to find what the penalty is. That section is some* 
what obscure, but the intention seems to be this-^that the 
party may apply to the Commissioner of stamps, who may 
stamp the instrument on payment of the deficiency of duty* 
plus a penally of Rs. 100, and who may also, with the 
Governor's sanction* reduce the penalty of Rs. 100, This 
is the only provision defining the penalty to which we Can 
resort when called upon to d^jtermine what is the '* penalty 
required by this Ordinance,*' within the meaning of sectioa 
39. The difficulty is this—the penalty contemplated in 
section 39 seems to be the penalty prescribed by section 
36, but the penalty prescribed by section 36 is a penalty 
which may amount to Rs. 100 and which may be reduced 
by the Commissioner to a lower amount^ a penalty, in facS 
seeming to require for its determination a decision of the 
Commissioner of Stamps. There is, no doubt, a difficulty 
here. The only way out of the difficulty, which occurs to 
me, is to suppose that inasmuch as the Ordinance makes no 
provision whatever for any reduction of penalty by a judge* 
at the trial, the intention was that the full penalty of Rs. 100 
should be paid, unless indeed within the seven days which 
may be allowed under section 41* a remission of penalty 
should be obtained from the Commissioner of Stamps. 
Unfortunately, in the present case, it seems to have been 
assumed in the District Court that the procedure to be 



266 

adopted was that prescribed by the Ordioanoe of 1852; 
and» instead of the Judge himself determiniog the defi* 
ciency of doty and then dealing with the matter ac« 
cording 10 the provisions of seciions 39, 40 of the Ordi- 
nance of 187?, the hearing was adjourned in order that 
the party might procure the instruoient to be stamped bf 
the Commissioner of Stamps. I he Commissioner of 
Stamps, so it is said —whether that be accurate or not I do 
not know^-refnsed to stamp the instrument* What were 
the grounds for such refusal we do not know| but it is 
suggested that there was some difficulty as to who was to 
determine the penalty. There does not seem to have beem 
any suggestion during the proceedings in the District Couitt 
but that the deficiency of duty was owing to a mere mis* 
take. The District Judge, it 8eems> declined to deal with 
the matter under the Ordinance of 18; i« After this tho 
plaintiffs, it seems, discovered in the posses<^ion of a mem* 
her of their family what has already been referred to as the- 
** Original." That document bears a stamp of one rupee 
which is the amount of stamp duty required by the Ordi- 
nances alike of 18 ji and 187 1 for such an " Original.'* 
The plaintiffs then asked to have that ** OrigiDal*' admitted 
in evidence* and so to avoid the necessity of stamping the 
document previously tendered. The District Judge declin- 
ed to allow that, and plaintiffs stand nonsuited. 

I am very clearly of opinion that the ''Original*' ought 
not bs admitted so long as the " Duplicate" is insufficient* 
ly stamped. These two words *' Original** and *' Duplicate,*' 
as thus employed, are somewhat misleading, so far as 
stamp duty is concerned. The stamp denoting the ad 
valorem duty is affixed to the ** Duplicate," no doubt because 
that copy is afterwards filed in a Public Office : so that 
copy is really the principal copy so far as concerns stamp 
duty. The copy delivered out to the parties is required to 
bear merely a uniform stamp of one rupee, and that only 
where the ad valorem duty exceeds Rs. 2*50. The " No« 
tary's Protocol" needs no stamp whatever. In these provi« 
sions the Stamp Ordinances of 1852 and 1871 are atke* 
The procedure prescribed for the Notary requires him to 
prepare three copies of the instrumenS each of which is 
signed by the necessary parties and witnesses. Then, for 
the sake of convenience, the ad valorem stamp is affixed to 
one only of those three copies, viz. the copy which is ulti. 
mately filed in a Public Oflice. The ** instrument" in fact 



267 

consists of three copies^ to one of which the ad valorem 
stamp is affixed. The instraroent is sufficiently proved by 
proving any one of the three copies, because so far as con* 
tent9> execution and attestation are concerned* the three are 
equally alike. But. it seems clear to my mind that the 
mstrutnent pannot be proved by the admission of either 
copy unless the proper ad valorem duty has been paid* 
Otherwise* indeed, the consequences would be these :— -A 
deed requires an ad valorem stamp of^ say, Rs. i,ooo«; quite 
a possible case. The '* Original" needs only a single rupee 
stamp. Without paying -the ad valorem duty at all, a party 
would be able to prove the deed at the cheap cost of one 
rupee by tendering merely the '' Original" : which» I think, 
is absurd. 

' Therefore, in this cas^« it being brought to the notice of 
the Court that the ad valorem duty due upon the deed has 
not been paid, the .deed cannot, in my opinion, be proved 
by the production of either of the three copies until the 
deficiency has been duly atoned for* 

I think that this -case should be sent back to the District 
Court in order that the plaintiff ^ may have due opportunity 
of procuring this instrument to be properly stamped under 
section 40 of the Ordinance of 1871, that Ordinance casting 
on the District Judge the task of determining the deficient 
amount of duty« 

There should, I think, be no costs of this appeal. Other 
costs may by left to be costs in the cause. 

Db Wst, a. C. J.— 1 coneui in this judgment. 

DiAS, J. concurred. 

Proctor for the plaintiffs, H- Ball. 
Proctot for the defendants, T. Cooke- 



268 

2yd February and 2i5f March, 1885- 

Preseot — Db Wbt« A. C. J., and Cxjirbncb, J. 

D. C. ^ K' CoKKBiiis and three others 
Kandj, > ▼. 

90,056. i U. Babanis snd two others* 



Voluntary donation of Umd^-^Suhsequent lease Jar vuluaBla 
consideration hy donor ^Contest between donees and lessees. 

H'« in 1 87 If conveyed to her minor children, the plaintiff% certain 
land, with a declaration of irrevocability, re5«ervin^ to herself the 
manageiaent of the property daring the plantifts* oHnorky, and tbc 
po«per to lease it for terms not czoceding one year, on the eipiratiofl of 
a present lease then having 5 years to run. Upon the donees attaining 
majority, they were at iherty to divide the property. }n 1S79 H. leased 
the property to third defendant for a teror ending in ^ga«t 1878 ; 
and in 1875 to first and second defendants for 4 years from 1878 (with 
recital of the gift to plaintiffs)y the entire rent being paid in a^'vance. 
H. having died shortly after this,, the present action was began in iSSSy 
during the minority of one of the plaintiffs, the first two defeodaius 
being in possession under their lease. The plaintiffs alkged a Hiff^iw^ 
oaster in November 1875, ^^ prayed cjeament. 

Heldf that the deed of gift was intended to operate opon all the 
plaintiffs attaining thck majority* 

It aopearing also that the greater part of the proceeds of the lease to 
the first two defendants had been applied to the discbarge of a debt (pro- 
bably contracted before the gift) due by the donor to first defendant : 

Heldy affirming the decision of the Court below, that plaintiffs were- 
not entitled to recover. 

The plaintiffs in this case appealed against a dismissal of 
their action with costs. The facts are sutficientlj disclosed 
in the judgments in appeal* The I>istrict Judge (it. C- 
Lttwrie) held that the ouster alleged bad not been proved,, 
and was of opinion that Helenahamit plaintiffs' mother, had 
had power to execute th^ lease under which defeodaots 
claimed the land. 

Grenier for the platntiffsr appellants. 
Panlxingenberg for the first defendant, respondeiit. 
Senemratne for the second defendant, respondent. 

Cur, adv» vult* 

(aist March). Db Wbt^ A. C* J. — In this case it ap- 
pears that during the minority of three children of one 
Dona Helena Hamy^ siooe deceased , she gifted to them 
certain properties mentioned in a Deed of Gift bearing date 
17th January, 1871, subject to the conditions therein cod- 



269 

tained. While the deed was still io existenoe and during 
the minority of the donees, she sabseqaently» by her deed 
marked F.» annexad to the libel» and for consideration there. 
in expressed leased the said lands and premises, th^ subject 
matter of the gift* to the defendants, for a period of four 
years commencing from the i ith Augusr^ 1878 The lease 
was still in existence at the time of action brought by the 
donees. 

On doe consideration I arn of opinion that the donees 
were entitled, at the death of the donor, to the property 
mentioned in the deed of Gift, subject, however, to the 
lease — a burden or encumbrance wbich was imposed upon 
the property gifted by the donor herself subsequent to the 
date of the deed of Gift. 

The appeal must, therefore, be dismissed with costs. 

Clarbnce, J.-— Omitting irrelevant matters, the facts in 
this case are simple- 

In 1871, Helenahami and her second husband executed a 
voluntary deed, dealmg with the two houses in quHstion» 
in favour of ist, 2nd and 4th plain(iffs, who are children of 
Helenahami by her first husband. The deed is not a " deed 
of assistance.*' It simply purports to gift the property to 
ist, and and 4th plaintiffs, who were then all minors. 
There is an express declaration that the gift shall never be 
revoked. There is also a proviso that; until the donees 
attain majority (meaning I have no doubt until they should 
all have attained ma jorit)) ife/^/ia^a/nt should manage the 
property in order to provide maiutenance for the donees 
until they should come of a&;e ; and for that purpose a 
power is reserved to Helenahami of granting leases for terms 
not to exceed one year each, on the expiration of a subsisting 
lease which then had 5 years to run. When the donees 
should have attained their majority, they were to be at 
liberty to divide the property between them. 

In 1872, Helenahamiy her second husband being now 
dead, executed a lease in favour of 3rd defendant,* for a 
term ending in Angust, 1878. In June 1873, Helenahami 
execated another lease in favor of ist and and defendants 
for a term of 4 years from August r8;6. That lease recites 
that the rent for the full term had been paid in advance on 
the execution of the lease. Helenahami died very shortfy 

after execnting the lease. 

I ■ I I I I I I 111 , , I ^ 

* He never appeared to the action. 



270 

This action was institoted in Janoaiy 1882, at which date 
the 1st and and defendants were in occupation under the 
last mentioned lease. At the date of action brought ist 
plaintiff had a'tained as and plaintiff had married 3rd 
p ainMff, and 4th piain-iff was, aod still is, a minor. The 
libel avers thafc defendants forcibly took possession of the 
property in November 187 5> and prajs that they maj be 
ejected, and for mesne profi's- 

No attempt whatever was made at the trial to prove the 
forcible en<ry averred in the libel ; and there is no doobt 
that defendants did not get into possession forcibly as 
alleged , bnt came in qnietly as lessees under HeUnakami, 

The lease under which the defendants are in occupation 
is not within the powers reserved to Helenaham by the 
gift-deed } but the position of defendants is this— they are 
in occupation of the property as purchasers, pro tanto, for 
value, under an instrument granted by Helenahami after the 
making of the voluntary instruifaent. The contention put 
forward by plaintiffs is— that the voluntary instrument 
operates to entilethem now to possession in preference to 
the subsequent instrument made for value in favour of ist 
and and defendants. 

The lease to ist and and defendants recites that the pro- 
perty had already been gifted to ist, 2od and 4th plaintiffs, 
and that the consideration for the lease was applied in 
greater part to the discharge of a debt due by Helenahami 
to ist defendant upon a judgment. The lessees, therefore, 
had notice of the gift. The consideration for which the 
lea^e was made is distinctly averred in defendants* plead- 
ings, and not even a suggestion is made by plaintiffs that 
the consideration was not a reality. 

The English cases upon the subject of contests between 
volunteers and subsequent purchasers for value are based of 
course upon the statute of Elizabeth, which is not in force 
here. Without, howeve»*, entering upon any genera? con- 
sideration of the qoestion^ how far there may be Roman 
Dutch Law or Equity going to the same length as the 
English cases, I am of opinion that plaintiffs shew no right 
to recover in this action. 

It is, at any rate, a principle of the Roman Dutch Law, to 
compel restitution of property alienated in fraud of creditors* 
See Voet^ xlii. 8. Then, what are the circumstances here* 
Setting out of consideration the question whethei: plaintiffs 
under the gift have any right to the benefit of possession 



2?1 

antil all have attained their majority, the circamstaaces are 
these :—> Plaintiffs declare that defendants took possession 
forcibly in 1875* That is nntrue. The truth is that a couple 
of years after making the gift the donor owed ist defendant 
a sum of money for which he had obtained judgment, and 
to provide for the discharge of that debt she sold to ist and 
and defendants the leasehold interest by virtue of which 
they are now in possession. 

When that debt was contracted, we do not know, but, 
having regard to the dates that we do know, the proha« 
bility is that it was owing at the date of the voluntary deed. 
If Helenahami in 1873 was unable to pay that debt by reason 
of her having deprived herself of the property in question, 
the creditor could have insisted on avoiding the voluntary 
deed* in order that this property might become available 
for him. That is an action perfectly well known to ihe 
Roman Dutch Law and corresponds to ihe Actio Pauliana 
of the Roman Law. The ^debtor, however, in fact did not 
force the creditor to sue for the av>>idance of the voluntary 
deed, bat granted him a lease, and t^e beneficiaries under 
the voluntary instrument now come forward and claim to 
turn him out before the expiry of the lease- They do not 
pretend that the ist defendant was not a creditor when the 
lease was executed, but they come forward with a false story 
of the defendants having forcibly taken possession of the 
property. I think that the judgment appealed against 
should be affirmed and this a{)peal dismissed with costs. 

Appeal dismissed. 

Proctor for the plaintifTs, Edivin Beven. 
Proctor for the 6rst defendant, y. B- SieheL 
Proctor for the second defendant, C- yayetileke. 



2^th April, 1S83. 

Present — Clarence, J- 

p. C. \ Anthonipulle Saverimutto 
Mannar, > v. 

5,785. J Thommai Bastiast. 

Toll^ Ordinance No i^of 1867, sections 17, 1 S'^ Evasion 
of toll^** One mile from the ferry.** 

Section 18 of the Toll Ordinance, 1867 enacts that ** if any person, 



272 

not being a dol^ a|>pointBd tolUkceper, shall convey any gfoods, ••....^•' 

or any passenger not in his service, across any river or stream • 

either at or within a distance of one mile above or below any road, 
bridge, ferry, canal, or place at which tolls shall be leviable such 
person shall be goilty of an offencr." 

Heidf that the intention of the Ordinance seemed to be to mark out 
a bell of two miles of water* one mile on each side of the ferry, within 
which two miles no person b to cross from one bank to the other except 
by the ferry. 

Odb of the toU.houses in the present case was situated at the end of 
a causeway prcjrcting from the mainland into the sea. the other bein^ 
on an island opposite. The defendant's boat, starting at a point half a 
mile from the root of the causeway, passed between the toll-houses, and 
landed its cargo on the island at a point two miles from the tolUhooM 
on the i^Und. 

Held^ that defen'fant had not committed a breach of section i8. 

SembUt that if the landing-place had been within the mile, the de» 
fendant would have been liablr, notwithstanding that his starting-place 
at the root of tke causeway wai mitre than a mile distant from the 
toll -house at the end of the causeway, but within the two* mile belt. 

Plaint — That the defendant not being a duly appointed 
tolLkeeper did on the 17th instant convey across the Man- 
nar Channel goods not being his own by means of a boat 
within a distance of one mile from the Mannar Ferry, ia 
breach of the 17th and i8lh clauses of thei^0rdinance No. 
14 of 867. 

The facts sufficiently appear in the following judgment of 
the Police M^gistra'e (5*. Haughton^) 

** The question at issue in this case is one merely of the 
interpretation to be p-u on the wordingr of clause 18 of 
Ordinance No. 14 of iSS/, the facts being admitted by the 
defendant. The ferry .renter complained to me in my capa^* 
city of Assistant Agent with reuard to the conduct of the 
defendant and others, in consequence of which he was 
cheated, he believed, out of toll payable to him under the 
Ordinance. The offences appeared to me to be provided 
for ia the 17th and i8ih clauses of the Ordinance, and I 
instructed him to prosecute the offenders accordingly in the 
event of the continuance of the <»ffence. Five cases were 
accordingly instituted by him, and four of them including 
the presenf case came on for trial yesterday* I reserved 
judgment, wishing to consider the question raised, and ia 
the evening the defendants in the tour cas^s presented to 
me Petition A tiled in the case. The question which I am 
DOW called upon to decide in my capac ty as Police Magis- 
trate is not without difficulty. I have referred to the old 
case, No. ao65, referred to by the Petitioners. It was one 
brought by the ferry^rentei ia i8j2 against three mea for 



273 



breach of the 13th and 14th clauses of the old Ordinance, 
No. 9 of i845> (^hich are practically identical with clauses 
17 and 18 of the existing Ordinance.) I find from the 
rccordbook that the case was dismissed by Mr. Walker, the 
Magistrate at that time» and that the ferry .renter appealed 
against his decision, bat the resalt of the appeal has not 
been recorded. 

" The annexed sketch of the locality will serve to explain 
the circumstances of the present complaint by the ferry- 



renter. 



Erufcelempitti 



W 



> 

Z 

> 
pi 



CO 

> 



o 

c 




Causeway 



Pakupitti 



2 

> 

O 

•as 
Q 

O 



*' The lines A B and C D are lines at the distance of a 
mile from the Ferry and the Causeway* North and South 



274 

of it. The dotted line is the line tak^n by the defendiat*s 
boat in conve3ring goods between Pakupiut and Erukelem- 
pitti. The distance between the h'nes A. B and C D is two 
miles, i. e. a mile on each side of the Causeway. The dis- 
tance from the island toll- house to the mainland of Ceyloo» 
across the ferry and along the Causeway, in about two miles 
also. The dotted line taken by defendant's boats is some 
five miles long from Pakupitti to Erakelempitti. 

** I maintain that defendant in this case has committed a 
breach of clauses \*j and iS of the Ordinance in the matter 
of the conveyance of goods by him from Pakupitti to Era- 
kdempitti under the circumstances. He conveyed goods 
not being his own across a stream (arm of the sea in this 
case) by means of a boat, within a distance of one mile from 
a ferry, in breach of the i8th clause of the Ordinance, and 
in doing so he evaded payment of toll, in breach of the 
latter part of the 17 th clause, which enacts, *'orifanj 
person shall do any other act whatsoever in order to tvade 
or reduce payment ef toll, and whereby the same shall be 
evaded or reduced,*' &ca. The fact that defendant had 
obtained a coast. wise, permit from the Customs authorities 
in no way exempts him from the consequences of evasioa 
of the toll. Of coarse the case is different as regards ships 
and large boats which leave the ports of Mannar on coast- 
wise or other permits. Such boats, it is true, convey goods 
within a mile of the ferry, but they do not do so * in order 
to eoade toll* It is a fallacy to suppose that the local 
canoes which convey goods across. the channel within a mile 
9I the ferry on purpose to evade toll, are, merely because 
tiiey have obtained a permit at the Customs, therefore ta 
the same category as the vessels referred to in the last para- 
graph. Moreover, if the preseiit evasion of toll now com- 
plained of were to become general, all the canoes in the 
place might take out Customs permits, lo the abandonment 
of the ferry altogether, and the consequent ruin of the 
ferry-renter, loss to Government in the ferry revenue, and a 
corresponding loss of funds for the maintenance of the 
Mannair Causeway, only recently much damaged by a severe 
storm. 

** Defendants, in addition to the possession of a coast- 
wise permit, lay stress on the fact that the places at which 
they load or unload the goods are more than a mile from the 
Mannar ferry ; but the Ordinance is silent on the subject 
of loading or unloading within a mile of the ferry : it' is the 



275 

** conveying" within a mile of the ferry that, is the offence. 
Both places, it is true, are more than a mile from the tolU 
house* but if the Cause waj be regarded as part of the ferry, 
which I consider it to be in a certain sense, then Pakupitti 
is barely half a mile from the Causeway at the mainland 
side. For every reason^ therefore^ I am inclined to think 
the clauses in question must be interpreted against the 
defendant, the alternative involving as it does the possible 
loss of the Mannar ferry revenue in future years in the 
event of the offence becoming more general* Defendant is 
accordingly found guilty and sentenced te pay a fine of 
twenty rupees, half to informerr namely complainant. 

** As defendant is likely to appeal, the eomplaifiant is 
iostructed if he (defendant) does appeal, net to pro$ecnt6 
the other cases further antit the result of the appeal is made 
known.'* 

Defendant appealed. 

J. Grenier, for the appellant — To cons+ftnte a bri?ach of 
the 1 8th section of the Ordinance both the places between 
which the goods have been conveyed must be within a mile 
of the ferry* Ccirtigeser v- Mur^gappen (r). That case was 
decided on a construction of section 14 of the Ordinanpe 
No. 9 of 184J, which seetion is ptactically identical with 
section 18 of the Ordinance of 1367. In the present case* 
the landing place certainly was beyond the mile from the 
ferry. 

No Coonsel appeared for the conaplaiQant,:tlie respondent* 

Clabbncb, J. — I think this appeal entitled to succeed. 
I say nothing about the starting point of these boats, because 
I am by no means prepared to say that if a boat Started 
near the root of the Causeway, travelled tHong the side, ao^ 
landed its passengers within a mile of the f drry^hotlise od 
the island, that would not be an evasion of the toll within 
the meaning of the Ordinance. It appears that the boats in 
question, starting somewhere near the root of the Cad^- 
way, go through the narrow passage between the end of the 
Caudeway and the toll house, and then before landing' 
ti^avel along the coast to a point about two miles from the 
toll-bonse. I think that a boat going through the passage 
on such a coastwise voyage as this, a voyage of which the- 

— ^ I - 

(i) I Lorenz, 142. 



276 

end is two miles from the ferry* is not within the Ordi- 
nance» even although the boat originally started from the 
opposite side of the waten The intention of the Ordinance 
seems to be this : taking the instance of a river^ferry by way 
of illustration* it marks out a belt of two miles of water, one 
mile on each side of the ferry, within which two miles of 
water nobody is to cross from one bank to the other except 
by the ferry. But all boats are perfectly free to start 
outside the two«mile belt, traverse the two miles of water^ 
and land beyond the two-mile belt, on the opposite side ^ 
and that is reasonable cmough. Otherwise you might have 
had this : a man starting in a boat ten miles belqw it an<f 
landing on the opposite bank would be liable to punishment,, 
which is absurd. This seems to me the natural construe* 
tion of the OrdtnaDce> and the case decided under the re« 
pealed Ordinance (x Lorenz, 142) is to the same efkct. 

I will Dot part with the case without exfMressiog my obli- 
gations to the Magistrate for the very clear manner ia 
which in his judgment he has shown the position of the^ 
locality. 

Set aside. Defendant acquitted^ 



2,nd Mayy 1883. 

Present— Clabbnoe,. J. 

C R. \ Valipullb 
rincomalie, \ v- 

35>9^ J* ^ KONAMALB PoyKlAB* 



Consideration^ tenlawful'-^Compounding criminal offenct^^ 
Robbery. 

In a suit to recover a sum of money agreed to be paid by the de> 
fendantiQ oonsideration of plaintifi^s withdrawing a Justioe of the 
Peace charge against the defendant of assault and theft from the 
person of the plaintiff, 

HeW, that the contract was against public policy, and thewforc 
invalid. 

Plaintiff brought suit to recover the sum of Rs. jo, and 
Rs; 35 the value of a necklace, which defendant had agreed 
to pay plaintiff in consideration of the latter withdrawing 
a charge she had lodged against the defendant before the 
Justice of the Peace charging him with assaulting her and 



277 

stealing from her person a necklace of the ?alae of Rs. 3 j. 
Defendant denied both the assaalt aad theft and the pro. 
mise aaed on* 

After evidence called on both sides on the qaestion of the 
promise, the Commissioner (G* Haughton) holding the 
plaintiff entitled on the evidence to Rs. ao^ gave her jadg^ 
ment for that sam with costs in the first class. 

Defendant appealed. 

Driehergt for the appellant~-The consideration for the 
promise was anlawfaU being a compounding of a felony. 
D* C* C7Q/om^(>3i)>92o(i). Plaintiff cannot therefore recover* 

No Counsel appeared for the respondent* 

Ci.ABBiicB» J.— This is an action on a promisot the con- 
sideration for which is stated in plaintiff^s libel to be that 
plaintiff should withdraw a criminal prosecution for a rob* 
bery* Plaintiff avers that she was assaulted and robbed by 
defendant and compromised the prosecution upon defen« 
dant's making the promise now sued on. I think this was 
an agreement against public policy > which cannot be en« 
forced by action. The case cited by Mr. Druberg is a 
decision of this Oourt which covers this case. 

The judgment is set aside and plaintiff's action dismiss. 
ed. Defendant should have demurred to the libel instead 
of falsely denying that he made any promise. I give no 
costs of appeal. I may poiot oat that this decision will 
not affect any action of plaintiff^s based directly upon the 
assault and robbery alleged* 

Set aside. Plaintiffs action dismissed- 

Proctor for plaintiff, C. Gandappa' 

Proctor for defendant, yohn R. Ganagaratna 

(i) Leg. Mise,f 31st July 1866, p 53. 




278 

2jth April and ^ih May, 1883. 
Preseat^ — Clarbmcb^ J* 

D. €• \ Abram Saibo & Co. 
>^ Kaody. „. ^. /,,,. -r. .r^a M. 

Mortgage^Oqffee estate with the ** /ttf« and dead stoek** 
thereon '^ Bungalow furniture on estate* 

Bungalow farniture, kept on a coffee estate for the use of the Super^^ 
inte'ndent, is prim A faeie not coveced by a mortgage of the " dead 
stock" on the estate. If any person be interested in maintaining the 
contrary, it is for him to satisfy the Coiin of any particalav usage or 
circumstances, by reason of which such furniture does form part of the 
<* dead stock." 

PlaintifiE haTing obtained provisional ymdgnient (for 
Bs. 701.25 and interest) on a promissory note» issued wr^ 
and caused to be sold certain property of the defeodadt* 
7*. 0. Kerr, the daioyant, having claimed the proceeds' as d 
mortgagee, the following statement of facts was submitted 
by the plaintifiE's and the claimant's proctors tor the deci* 
aion of the Court upon the claim : 

Under D. C. Kanidy writ No. 914173 the *^ fumiture" in the Bunga* 
low on Kinrara Estate was seized. The plaintiffs in this case ace 
unsecured creditors. 

Under D. C. Colombo writ No. 88,171 the Kiorara Estate with M 
the Uve and dead slock thereon was seized. The plaintiff ta that case 
holds a special mortgage of the Estate and ot the Uve and dead stock 
thereon* 

The sale under the mortgagee's writ b fixed for the ^Tth instant. 
He wishes the furniture to be sold as forming part and parcel of the 
Estate. 

Mr. Bevett, on behalf of the plaintiffs in D. C. Kandy 9r,,573, and 
Mr. Fanderwally for the plaintiff in D. C. Oolombo No. 88,371, solicit 
the opinion of the Court as to whether the furniture is to be regarded 
as part of the Estate and sold under the mortgagee's writ as such. 

Mr. Fanderwall contends that furniture on the Estate comes under 
the denomination of '* dead stock.*' Superintendence being necessary 
to the management of a coffee estate, it follows that furniture for the 
Superintendent's Bungalow would be as indispensable in most cases 
as machinery or implements. ^ See judgment of Mr. Berwick in D.C. 
Colombo No. 7 if 450(1)9 copy of which is annexed. Moreover, the 
term ** dead stock" covers everything that is opposed to *' live stock.'* 
Mr. Kerr states that with a few exceptions the articles of furniture now 
on the estate were purchased by him with the Cftate, 

Mr. Beven contends that, assuming Mr. Berwick** judgment to be an 
authority on the point (which he denies), it is not applicable to the case 

(1) See Appendix H. 



279 

tm which an opinion is now soaj^ht. In thia judgment the question 
was whether the furniture belongoi to the proprietor or the Superinten- 
dent ; in this case it is admitted to be the property of the proprietor, 
tb« only question being whether it was mortgaged or sold. No men^ 
tion b made specially of the furniture in the Bond, and it is submitted 
IJhat it eanoot be rsgiuded as "dead stock.*' Furniture is no more the 
fliock of an estate tbanyth^ .fot« and pans of the coolies. To bold as a 
Siattcr of law that all furniture in a bungalow belongs to the estate— 
foi Mr. Bertriek^s constniction comes to that— -would have the effea of 
dcftiving the Superintendent of the right to any moveables that he 
BMiy biing into his bmgalow* 

The District Judge (A* 0. Lawrie) gave it as his opiaioa 
'^ that the f arniture in a bungalow on an estate mortgaged* 
which mortgage includes live and dead stock, is not in-' 
eluded in these words, and is liable to be seized and sold on 
the writ of an unsecured creditor.*' 

The daimant appealed. 

Brownef for the appellant, cited Voet, ad Pand.^ xz. i* 3, 
6 (i)« He referred to OuUunck v. SmndM (2) f Ex parte 
S^^ (5) ) Mather v. Eraser (4) ; U^almtsieif v. Milne ( j) ^ 
MeMX V. yacofys (6). He read, as part of his argument, the 
jadgment of Berwick^ D. ^.> in D. 0* Colombo 7x9450 (;)• 

The plaintiff did not appear upon the appeal. 

Cur. adv, vuli. 

(4th May). Clarbncii, }•— Plaintiff sued the defendant, 
H, A. Ken , on a Promissory Note, and obtained provisional 
Jadgment for Rs 701*25, under which judgment plaintiff 
issued writ, and the Fiscal in execution of that writ seised 
sod sold certain household furnitare in the bungalow 
on Kinrara £state. This levy seems to have produced 
'Ba' 21 1.; 3 net, which sura appears to be in Court to the 
credit of this action. The money was afterwards claimed 
by a Mr, T". C. Kerr^ who claims in the character of a mort. 
gagee of the Kinrara £state, and a kind of Special Case 
was submitted by the Proctors of plaintiff and Mr. 7*. 0, 
Kerr for the decision of the District Court. It is not ex^ 
pressly stated, but I presume, that the mortgage under 
which Mr. T. G. Kerr claims is a mortgage made by the 
defendant to this action in favour of Mr. T*. G- Kerr or some 



(1) Berwick's Trans., pp. 263, 269. 
(a) 36 L. J. Ch. 173. 

(3) 18 L.J. Bk. 16. 

(4) 25 t. J. Ch. 361. 



(5) »9 L. J. C. P. 97. 

(6) L Rm 7 H. L,48l. 

(7) See Appendix H. 



280 

one in whose shoes Mr. T. G. Kerr stands. The mortgage 
deed is not before me> but it is agreed by both parties that 
the mortgage purported to hypothecate the estate with ** the 
live and dead stock on the estate." Mr. T. 0. Kerr con* 
tends that " live and dead stock'' includes the bungalow 
furniture seized and sold under plaintiff's writ. The learned 
District Judge held the contrary and made an order allow- 
ing plaintiff to draw the money> and against that order Mr* 
y. 0. Kerr appeals. 

The sole question contested was> whether appellant's 
charge extends to the furniture' I have looked through the 
list of the furniture, and I find that it consists of ordinary 
household furniture, such as chairs, tables, almirahs> lamps» 
glass, crockery, and so forth, tn my opinion the term 
*' dead stock*' as applied to a coffee estate does not prima 
fade include such things as these« It is suggested on ap* 
pelknt's behalf that bungalow furniture on a coffee estate 
is a kind of stock in trade kept on the premises for the use 
of a paid Superintendent. All I think it necessary to say 
as to. that is, that in my opinion articles such as these ia 
the bungalow of an estate owner do not primA facie answer 
to the idea of *' dead stock** on the estate | and if any one 
is interested in maintaining that by reason of any particular 
usage or circumstances I ought to regard such articles as 
comprised in the description, it is for such party to satisfy 
me by laying before me some materials warranting me in so 
far extending the purview of the phrase. All that appears 
in this case is, that the furniture was on the estate* and was 
seized on plaintiff's writ against defendant. 

I think that the decision of the District Judge was right 
and see no reason for taking away this sum of money from 
plaintiff at appellant's instance* 



Appeal dismissed. 



Proctor for plaintiff, E- Beven* 
Proctor for claimant, C. VanaerwalL 



281 

2^rd and $ist Mayt 1883. 
Present— BuRNSiDB, C, J. 

P. C. -J A. SiLVA 

Jiegombo, > v. 

5<>383. J N. £• SiLVA and nine others. 



Pagrants Ordinance^ 4 q/' 1841, sect. 4, suhseci- 4 — Gani' 
iBg —Alternative charges ^Naming of defendants in plaint ^^ 
Conviction, uncertainty of— Accomplice, evidence of. 

P/ain<— That in breach of the 4th section of the 4th clause of the 
Ordinance No. 4 of 1841 the ist and 3rd 4th 5th 6tb 7th 9th 9th and 
loth did game, play or bet with dice on the night of the 26th Janu- 
ary instant at Timbirigascotua in a shed kept or used by ist defendant 
for common and promiscuous gaming. 

Upon appeal against a general verdict of " guilty," 

Heldf that the conviction was bad for uncertainty, and (there beinor 
nothing on the record by which it could be amended) must be quashed. 

Observations on the form of plaints, and on the evidence ot accom* 
plices. 

The facts material to this report are disclosed in the 
judgment of the Appeal Court. 

Dornhorst for the defendants* appellants* 

Cur* adv' vult. 

(31st May). BuRNSioE, 0. J.— -The conviction in this 
case mast be set aside on more than one ground. 

In the first place, I cannot find that the complainant 
charged any one with an offence* The complaint is in these 
w.ords, so far as can be gathered from the mutilated form 
in which it appears : " That in breach of the 4th section of 
the 4th clause of the Ordinance No 4 of 1841 the ist 2nd 
3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th and loth did game, play, or 
bet with dice on the night of the 26th January instant at 
Timbirigascotua in a shed kept or used by ist defendant 
for common and promiscuous gaming.*' If by t 2 3 4 5 6 
7 S 9 and 10 it is intended to designate the defendants, all 
I can sa3r is that such a designation is one which a court of 
appeal cannot recognize. Again, the charge is laid in the 
alternatiye> " game> play, or bet." Now under the Ordi- 
nance it is an ofiEence under certain circumstances to do any 
one of these acts» and it has been repeatedly pointed out 
that a charge of all three acts in the alternative, as one 
ofiEencei is bad for uncertainty. The Police Magistrate has 



282 

not found of which act the defbndaiUswere guilty -» whether 
of ••gaming," " playing,*' or ** betting/' Such a con?ictioa 
is therefore bad for uncertainty, and there is nothing in the 
record by which I could amend it so as to cure the defect. 

Again, the Magistrate has convicted the ist defendant of 
keeping the place in question for *' eommoa op promiscuous 
gaming,*' an offence under a wholly different section, and 
with which the fifst defendant w^is not charged. 

Again, the Magistrate frnds that &ome of the defendants 
** took part in the gaming.** Now it may well be that a 
person take3 part in the doing of an act and is not guilty of 
the act itself ^ and althcnigb^ if this objection stood alooe» 
I would not perhaps let it disturb a conviction otherwise 
good, yet in this case when the conviction is so. essential!/ 
bad in other partioulars» it is well that I sliould call attention 
to. what might be urged as a fatal objection* I feel leas 
scruples in quashing tbia conviction than I would have feltt 
bad the evidence upon- which it is founded been of a less 
doubtful character than it appears to me to be. 

In the first place, the entire evideuipe is that of informers, 
if not accomplices, who, although they went to the place 
for the purpose of detecting crime, assert that they them- 
selves gambled, and for this reason their evidence required 
corroboration, which it does not appear to have received ia 
any material particular. Whilst I agree with the Police 
Magistrate in the evils which result from common and 
promiscuous gaming, it is my duty upon appeal to be care« 
iul: that* where the law creates an offence like this attended 
with highly penal consequences^ the convtetion of an ac« 
cusedr shall be subject to those recogAJzed^ principles and 
roles of law and evidence which are wisely conserved as 
safeguards, aod the violation of which is bazard«Mis to the 
administration of justice, 

OanmcUon: quashed^ 



283 

8lA yume, 1883. 

Present^Ci^EBHCBi J* 

P. C. ^ B. M. Kbith 
Negombo, > ?• 

5f>756. i W. J. Fbrhahoo and two others* 

PensHr^ Police ojffker in execuHon tfkis duiy^^ Ordinance 
16 of 186^, sect J ^-^ Ordinance 18 of r86r, itcf. 13—- 
Presence r^ complainant at trial ^Using indecent language in 
^ke street. 

Where defendant was cbargod bj an Inspector of PoUoe wilh resist- 
Ing^ a police constable in the ezecution of bis duty, 

Beld^ that the presence of the constable at tbe trial iras a presence of 
4be oomphunant within the meaainj; of sect. 13^ OcdinanQe No. *8 
of 1861. 

The evidence showing that the duty the constable was engaged in at 
Che time of the resbtance was the arresting of one Jas?*, who -was 
brawling in the street and refused to desist at the request of the con* 
stable, 

Htld^ that, apart from any special statutory power, the constable 
was JBstified in arresting Jasa and taking bim into his custody. 

P/oin/— That the defendants did on the night of the 26th 
day of March 1883 at Main Street, within the jurisdtctioa 
of the Court, assault, resist and obstruct P. C 564, Juanis 
Appu, in the execution of his du'y as a Po ice Constable, 
whilst conducting W. J. Fernando, who was arrested for 
disorderly conduct in a public street, Negombo, to the 
Poh'ce Station, in breach of cl. 75 of Ord. No. 16 of 1865. 

The constable No. 564 in hise?idence stated : '' On 2 5th 
March last Jusa 8inno was using indecent language on the 
Chilaw Road* I went up to him twice and told him not 
to. He did not listen, so I took him up." He then went 
on to state an assault upon him by the defendants. The 
next witness, Alexandria stated, " yusa Sinno was making a 
disturbance when the constable (complainant) arrested him, 
and took him as far as the Secretary's house," when the 

alleged resistance took place- 

The 3rd defendant, who alone was tried, was convicted 
by the Police Magistrate (Tf- E. Davidson) and sentenced to 
six weeks iiisprisonmdnt at hard labour. 

The defendant appeal^. 

Be Saraniy for the defeadant, appellant— It is noted that 
the complainant on the record, £• M Keith, was absent at 



284 

the trial. The charge should then have Jbeen dismissed, and 
not tried. ( See' ion 13, Ordinance 18 of 1861). It is a4so 
aot proved that the person now calling himself Policeuian 
No. C64 was a Police Constable at the time of the assault. 
Farther, the Court is not in a positron to judge whether the 
words used amounted to ** indecent language," none of the 
witnesses specifying the actual words ased. It is possible 
that the constable was mistaken in thifikiog the words were 
indecent, they not being so in reality. [Clarbncb, J. — It: 
is undesirable that witnesses should be uiade to repeat ia 
the box all the obscene language they may have heard used 
in the street]* The witnesses should, at least, have ex- 
plained what they meant by ^ making a disturbance.** 
There is, again* no law that casts on a police officer the duty 
of arresting a- person using indecent language in the street* 
Neither sect. 7 of the Vagrants Ordinance^ 1841, nor sects* 
52, 55 of the Folice Ordinance, 1855, imposes this duty. 

The respondent did not appear. 

Clabbncb, J.— In this case I think every point has been 
urged which could be taken for the defence. The first 
point is that complainant (inspector Keifk) was not present 
at the trial. Now, I do not think that sect. 13 of Ordi- 
nance No- 18 of 1^61 requires (at any rate in such a case 
as this) that complainant should be personally present. 
The expression used is. *'if complainant shall not appear.'' 
Now, complainant is an Inspector of Police, and the sub^ 
stance of his complaint is an offence committed by resisting 
one of his officers in the execution of his du^y. I think 
complainant appeared within the meaning of the Ordinance 
by being represented by his Police Officer, No doub^, if 
the actual presence of complainant in Cocn't were necessary 
for the defence* it would be required > but there is not the 
slightest suggestion that defendant has in any way been pre- 
judiced by the absence of the nominal complainant. In 
fact, everything in the case favours the contrary supposition. 

The next point is that the policeman does not distinctly 
say be was a policeman at the date in question. This is 
probably an oversight, but I find the deficiency supplied by 
the evidence of other witnesses. I do not doubt that de« 
fendant struck the constable and rescued the man y^usa 
from his custody. The question then is, whether the 
constable had any right to arrest ^usa. Now, ft is proved 
that the man 3^usa was brawling in a public street and 



285 



fefased to desist when required to do so by the constable, 
and in mj opinion a constable, under those circurnstances^ 
irrespective of any special statutory permission, has a right 
to arrest a party so disturbing the public peace. 

Affirmed, 



i6th February and 2\st March, 1883. 

Present — Dt Wbt, A. C jMOitABBHct and Dias, JJ< 

D. C- \ W. M« Karuvarathb 
Kandy, > ▼. 

dg*^6i» i J. W* H* Andrbwbwb and five others. 



Kandyon law — Adoption Jor purposes of inheritance, re* 
quisitef JoT'^ Marriage ^Ordinance 6 of 1847, *^^'- * (^nd 
a8 — Ordinance 13 of 185,, sect 35. 

Iff. (a Kandyan Singtalese) and B. (a woman of European dcscent>, 
professing Christianity, were in 1S36 married according to the rites of 
that relis^ion in Gampola. After 7th December 1849 (when the Ordi- 
nance 6 of 1847 ^^' confirmed by Her Majesty by notice in the 
Gazelle), B. being £till alive, M. cond acted as bis wife M. M.- (a Kandy. 
an woman) according to Kandyan customs. 

Held, that M 's second marriage was mvalid and bigamoas, under 
Ordinance 6 of 1847, sent. 28. 

The requisites for a Kandyan adoption^ for purposes of inheritanoe« 
discussed. D. C. Kandy 531309 (i) approved. 

This was an action broui^ht by the plaintiff for the pur- 
pose of establishing his ri^ht as the adopted son and sole 
heir at law of Henry Marty n decf*ased. I'he first defen^ 
dant was the Administra>or of Martya*s intestate estate* the 
other defendants representing Martyns children. The 
second, third and fourth defendants, and three minors rp« 
presented by the fifth defendant (being; the issue of Mortyn's 
second marriage) set up a counter claim to bfing the sole 
heirs ; and the sixth defendant, a nephew of Martyns, also 
claimed to have been adopted by Martyn as son and sole 
heir to his property. 

The facts, and the natnre of the evidence adduced to 
prove adoption, appear in tbe judgments of the Court below 
and of the Appellate Court. 

(loth July, 1882). Lawrib» D. J — I find as matter of 

(1) Grcnier (1873), D. C, 117. 



>■ 



286 

fact: (i) That the deceased Hmry Martyn wias by birth 
a Kandyao. (3) '' hat he was, when a boy, tent to a 
Chrisiaa (school and was for the rest ol his life a Ohrtstian, 
and was known as Henry Martyn. (3) That in 1836 he 
was married at Gampola (after publication of banns) by the 
i %^d* ^^- Oakley to Mary Anne Brackenburgt a woman of 

European descent. (4) That Martyn and his wife had two 
»' children, who died when young ; aRd about 1847, itnme.* 

diately ofter the death of the younger child, HQartjin applied 
to Babappuhamy, alias Abraham JPetasinghe^ and his wife 
Elizabeth MacDtmahi. to give him one of ifheir childfea 
to be brought up by him and that fPetasinghe gave over the 
plaintiff to Martyn. (5) That at that time Martyn was a 
Conductor ou Pinhayapitia Coffee Estate under Colonel 
Byrde, and so far as appear;*, bad not then acquired much 
property. (6) That the plaintiff's father gave bicn oref to 
Martyn on the understanding or promise expihessed bjr 
Martyn that he would provide lor the hay^ (y) Thai* 
M rtyn (probably about 18 jo) told Dr. Skipton, in answer 
to a question, that the plamtiff Was his adopted soii. (8) 
That Martyn told Abraham tHmaUsooria Mohaodiram that 
he was bringing up the plaintifiE as an heir to his property, 
(9) I'hat about the time wheA these statements wer6 made 
by Martyn^ 6th defendant was given up to him by his 
parents on the understanding that Martyn would educate 
and provide lor him. (10) That Martyn often told Mr. 
JDe Saram (Police Magistrate o> Gampola from i8j2 
lili i8C>o or 1861) that he had adopted the 6th de' 
iendant and would make him his heir. ( 1) That 
Henry Martyn and bis wi(e took care of both the plaintiff 
and sixth deieodant, and that both of them were sent to 
school by them and spent their holidays at Martyn's hou<«e* 
(12) That when both boys were still young, Henry Martyn 
conducted as his wife, according to ICandyan customs, a 
Sinhalese woman, Miittu Menika, oi cas^e equal to his own, 
the daughter ot a L kaii , a.d ihac whatrvor unpleasantness 
this may have c .used at tirsc, his wife Mary Anne Bracken-' 
burg btcame reconciled io MuUu Menika's presence, and 
thai 4 hey lived together with Martyn until their respective 
deaths. (13) That Muttu Menika bore to Henry Martyn 
several children of whom six suivive, viz. 2nd 3rd 4th and 
the three minor defendants. (14) That these children were 
recognised bv Martyn as his own, that he maintained them. 
Sent them to School, had them baptized, and he and his 



287 

wife Mary Awne Bracienburg represented to the Clergyman 
who- bap^ ii&-c& tbem that tht;y were her own cbildrea (15) 
That the pluimiff after hia leafing school, whea he whs 
aboot 16, spent some little time at Martins house ; that 
tkeveafter he was employed on the Rail way t ri^tuining oCten 
tO' Martyn't^ bat that in 1869 he received an appoiotoienl in 
Badalla, and from that time unt it Marty n*n dea»h in J 880 he 
w^s seldom at Ifariys '5 house* (16) That there is no evi- 
denoe to show tbat after Martian had had children by Muttttk 
Mnikch ha ever spoke of the plaintiff aa his adopted sun or 
heir ; that in one letter* dated March 1874, he signed himself 
'' your affactiooate father/* (17) That it is not clear from 
Mr. Be Saram*s evideuce» whether Martyn spoke of Sennvi* 
ratne as his. adopted son after he had children by MuHu 
Menika- (18) Thai Senewiratne was at one time turned out 
o| MfKiyrCs, house* but that he was afterwards recouciled to 
him. and that during the late years of Marti^nks life Senewk- 
ratne lived either in ov near Martyn*s huu^a and assisted 
lum in several way-s 5 that the letter addressed to Captn. 
JSy/fdes m 1 880 was> not written by H Martyn and cannot be 
taken as his statement. ( £9) That Mariyn uiarried his eldest 
diaiighter to Androivewe, then a clerk in the Fussellawa 
Court » whe is now Katemahatmaya, and that Martyn 
treated his other children by Muttu Meniha as legitimate 
chikkren. (^o) That Henry Martyn survived both his wife 
and Muttu Menika and died intestate in i83o. (21) There* 
a'ter Andrewewe, R M', was appointed Administrator of 
his £state. (33) That the present action has been raised by 
n^illiam Martyn claiming the whole property as the sole 
adopted son and sole heir. That the and 3rd 4th and 5th 
defendants* the children of Muttu Menikay claim the whole 
estate as the legitimate children and svjle heirs of Martyn^ 
and that Senewiratne, 6th defendant, claims as sole adopted 
son and sole heir. 

On these facts I am oE opinion that the plaintiff and 6th 
deteoidant have proved tbat they were origiually adopted by 
Henry Martyn at a time when he had no children of his 
own j thai their informal adoption by Martyn was not 
irrevocable ; that it depended on his good will and pleasure ; 
that there is evidence that long before his death, Martyn, 
having children of his own whom he treated as legitimate* 
had ceased to treat the plainiiiE and 6ih defendant as his 
sole heirs and adopted sons» though there was reason to 
believe he intended to leave them aomethiag if he made a 



288 

will ; that; in the circumstances described in the proof 
neither plaintiff nor 6th defend int has right to succeed to 
the Estate of the deceased, either separately or jointly, as 
adop*ed sons and heirs. That thouu[h the deceased treated 
his children by Muttu Menika as legitimate, and probably 
believed that in law they were legitimate, still they are by 
the Ordinance of 1847 illegitimate. 

I hold that in 1836, when Henry Martyn was married in 
Kandy. there was no Ordinance which regulated marriages 
in the Kandyan Provinces, for the Regulations 7 of f 81 j 
and 9 of 182a applied only to the maritime settlements. 

In 1836 Kandyanscculd be married in either of two ways : 

(1) According to their own laws, manners, and customs. 

(3) By a Christian Minister and according to the forms 
of any Christian Church. 

Any doubts which might have existed as to the validity 
of marriages by clergymen prior to 1847 were removed by 
the Ordinance 6 of 1817, sect. a. I hold that the marriae[e 
of Henry Martyn and Mary Anne Brackenburg in Katkf^y ia 
1836 was (a) a good and valid marriage (sec. a), (b) No 
subsequent marriage by Martyn, solemniz^'d after the not fi« 
cation in the Gazette of the confirmation of the Ordinance 
by Her Majesty, could be valid. The Ordinance of 1847 
was confirmed by the Queen, by Gazette Notice, 7th Dc* 
cember 1849* The Ordinance provided that any person 
married according to that Ordinance, and thereafter con* 
tracting ano'her mariiai>e before the prior marriage had been 
dissolved, was guilty of bigamy and liable to imprisonment 
for three years. 

The Ordinance 13 of 1859, sec 35, declared that the 
Ordinance 6 of 1S47 at no time extended to marriages con^ 
tracted in the Kandyan Provinces, by residents thereof, 
accordimr the latus* manners ana customs heretofore existing 
and in force among the Kandy ans. 

But as the o^arriage of Henry Martyn and Mary Anne 
Bracktnburg was not contracted according to the laws, man-* 
ners and customs heretofore existing among Kandyans, the 
Ordinances 13 of 1859 ^^^ 3^^ '^7^ ^^ °^^ affect the 
question as to the validity and effect of that marriage, for 
it was a marriage between a Kandyan and a woman of 
European descent. 

The only Ordinance then which regulates the validity and 
legal consequence of the marriage in 1836 is 6 of 1847, and 
that Ordinance, scc, 2 3, declares that any subsequent 



289 

marriage shall be void if the prior marriage shall not have 
been legally dissolved. 

1 hold it proved that Martyn condacted Mutiu Menika 
af 'er the confirmation of the Ordinance of 1847, and that 
there was no valid marriage between them* 

1 am thus obliged to hold that the childrent and. 3rd» 
4th, and 5th defendants* are illegitimate* I am of opinion 
that Candyan law applies* and that these children are entitled 
to all the acquired property of the deceased* bat in the 
absence of his nearest legitimate heirs I cannot prejudge 
the questions which might arise between the children and 
them. 

I dismiss the plaintiff's action. I refuse to enter ap 
judgment as praved for by the snd, 3rd, 4th, jth, and 6th 
defendants* and I find the ist defendant entitled out of the 
Estate to the eosts to which he has been put. I find no 
costs due to or by other parties* 

The plaintiff, and all the defendants with the exception 
of the first, appealed. 

Ferdinands, A. Q A*, for the plaintiff, appellant. 
Domhorst {Withers with him) for the 2.nd, 3rd> 4th and 
5th defendants* appellants. 

Grenier {FanLangen6erg vfiih him) for the 6th defendant* 
appellant. 

Authorities cited : — Marshall's judgments, pp 352, 353 ; 
Austin, p 74; Z). 0. Kandy 53,309, Grenier (1873), 117} 
Sawers' Digest, p 25* 

Cur» adv, vult* 

(2 ist March). Clarbnce, J.— The circumstances out of 
which this appeal arises are these :— - 

The deceased, Henry Martyn, concerning whose property 
the parties are contcndiner* was a Kandyan Sinhalese, who 
was supposed to have embraced Christianity. He married 
in 1836 an Eurasian woman, by whom he had no children 
who survived a tender age* 

He then received into his family the present plaintiff, 
who claims to inherit the whole of the property as aa 
adopted child. 

Shortly after this, Henry Martin went through the form 
of marriage accordiag to Kandyan usage with one Muttu 



290 

Menika, a woman of his own caste. The learned District 
Judge finds on the evidencei and I see no reason to dis. 
approve of the finding* that this took place after the Ordi^ 
nance 6 of 1847 came into operation j and if so, then by 
virtue of section 28 of that Ordioance* Henry Martyn and 
ULuttu Mentha were not legally married, in as much as the 
Eurasian woman was still alive. By Muttu Mentha Henry 
Martyn- had six children, viz. Sophia^ Henrys and Charles, 
who are the and, 3rd and 4th defendant s^ and three minors, 
who are assumed to be represented in this suit by the 5th 
defendant as guardian. 

The 6th defendant, who is the son of a brother or half- 
brother of Hemy Martyn, also claims the whole of the 
property, as having been adopted by Hemy Martyn some* 
what before the alleged adoption of plaintiff. 

Henry Martyn died in April i88o» and administration to 
his estate was granted to ist defendant, who is the husband 
of the daughter Sophia. 

The present action is instituted by plaintiff, praying an 
account as against the administrator, and a declaration that 
he alone is entitled to the whole estate, to the exclusion of 
Muttu Mentha* s children and 6th defendant. 

The foregoing circumstances raise several questions of 
Eandyan Customary Law> viz. :^ 

Whether plaintiff has been legally adopted for purposes 
of inheritance. 

Whether 6th defendant has been legally adopted for pur- 
poses of inheritance. 

If so, has such adoption been in effect annulled, so far as 
inheritance is concerned, either as to the intestate's heredi« 
tary or acquired property^ by the birth of Muttu Mentha* s 
children ? 

Do Muttu Mentha* s children» though illegitimate^ inherit 
the acquired property ^ 

AU the parties are appellants, except the ist defendant, 
the Administrator. 

The learned District Judge has found that both plaintiff 
end 6th defendant were " adopted*' by intestate, but that 
long before his death he ceased to treat them as sole heirs 
•and adopted sons. Plaintiff's action has been dismissed 
with costs. The Administrator has been declared entitled 
to be paid his costs out of the estate, and the other parties 
are left to bear their own costs. 

So far as plaintiff is conceraed, the fgundation of his 



i 



291 

action is his claim to sacoeed as an adopted heir. The 
requisites to a claim of that kiod are well expbined in the 
judgment of Sir Richard Cayley, when District Judge of Sl^ 
Kandy, which was adopted by the Supreme Court in 
Appeal (i). It is necessary to establish, not merely that there 
has been adoption, but that the adoption was with the view 
of the adopted child's inheriting. No special formalities are 
necessary, but some kind of public declaratioa or acknow- 
ledgment is necessary. The materials adduced on plaintiffs 
behalf appear to me insufficient for the purpose. They are 
as follows: — 

PlaintifiE himself says generally : — " He (intestate) looked 
to me as his heir. He always said that all his property would 
come to me.** Mr. Imray, who knew intestate well, says :•— 
** My impression was that he (plaintiff) was adopted by Mr. 
Martyn. I always understood that.** This is but faiht» 
and, moreover, there is nothing concerning heirship. 

Dr. Shipton knew Martyn well, as his Medical man. 
He says :-»" Plaintiff lived with Martyn. Martyn told me 
that he was his adopted son * * * They treated him as 
their child." 

Plaintiffs father speaks of Martyn's promising to make 
plaintiff his heir» when the father gave him up* 

Abraham Wimalasuriya Mohandiram knew Martyn for 
41 years, and was intimate with him. This witness says :— 
" He (Martyn) was bringing up this child as an heir to his 
property. He said that onoe on my asking him.** 

It further appears that Martyn educated plaintiff as well 
as 6th defendant. 

This material appears to me insufficient to establish affirm 
matively that plaintiff was adopted by Martyn for purposes 
of inheritance. The occurrence spoken to by Tfimalaswriyd 
Mohandiram is the only direct acknowledgment d adoption 
as heir spoken to by any of plaintiff s wttncisses, and doefs 
not appear to have been made in public or an any notable 
occasion. There is nothing answering to the emphatic and 
solemn declarations established in the case adjudicated by 
Sir Richard Cay ley. 

This being so, plaintiff's action is not maintained ; but I 
am unwilling under the circumstances to shut him out from 
all farther chance of estfkblishing his claim. 

(1) /). C, Kandy 53,309, Grcnier (i873)> i«7- 



292 

Diis, J.— la my opinion the evidence adduced does not 
establish plaintiff's adoption bj Henry Martyn. 

The taw of adoption is a very old Kandyan custonei and 
has fallen into disuse of late. Henry Martyn, the alleged 
adopting parent, was a Eandyan Sinhalese by birth. He 
married a Burgher lady* became a Christian, and was for 
some time Interpreter of the Gampola Court He seems 
to have withdrawn himself from all Eandyan social infia- 
ences* He married a Kandyan lady* by whom he had 
children^ and he seems to have lived and died under the 
belief that these children were legitimate. 

The platntiJBT is in no way related to Henry Martyn^ and 
IS the son of a low^country Sinhalese man. His mother 
was a Miss MacDonaldy who seems to have been a schoof 
friend of Henry Martyn^s Burgher wife. Where a Eandyaa 
adopts a child with a view of making him his heir, he 
generally takes a nephew or some such near relation ; and 
it is extremely unlikely that Henry Martyn should adopt an 
ntter stranger, a son of a low.country Sinhalese man, though 
he had several children of his own. The probabilities are 
all against the adoption. The evidence adduced consists of 
certain statements said to have been made by Henry Mariyn 
to some strangers, some of them being Europeans. These 
statements were not made on any special occasionr bat 
casually in conversation* 

According to Eandyan law, as I understand it, the inten« 
tion to adopt must be clearly evidenced by declarations or 
ether overt acts made in as public a manner as possible* 
Henry Martyn seems to have been a man of intelligence^ 
above the average Eandyan, and if he really intended to 
follow the old fa$hioned law of adoption he would have done 
it by some writing about which there could be no dispute. 

Under all the circumstances* the conclusion that I come 
to is, that Henry Martyn lived and died in the belief that his 
V ^ children by Muttu Mentha were his heirs. 

Di Wbt, a. C* J. — After reading the evidence in this 
case and the judgment of the District Judge, and having 
had an opportunity of perusing Mr. Justice Clarbmcb and 
Mr. Justice Dias* opinions, I am clearly of opinion that the 
plaintiff has failed in proving that he was the adopted son 
of Henry Martyn* Under these circnmstancea the judg^ 
ment of the District Court must stand, and plaintiff be 
adjudged to pay the costs incurred by the administrator io 



29S 

defending the action, leaving the other defendants to pay 
their own costs. 

Proctor for plaintifiF, M> 0- Sidde Lehhe. 

Proctors for the ist defendant. Barber tsf Easilake. 

Proctor for the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and jth defen daots, C. Van* 

derwall. 
Proctor for the 6th defendant, 0. Jayetileke^ 



%6ik April and ist May^ 1883. 

Present— Clabbncs, J. 

C. R. ^ M. Mahamadu Tambt 
Ifatale, > v. 

3»747* ^ Mahamadu Ali and another. 



- Mortgage^'' Mortgagee plaintiff purchasing property mart^ 
gaged in execution— Ejectment — Non-joinder of parties in 
possession in mortgage suit. 

Ptainliff obtained jadgment in a {ormer action oa a mortgage bond 
against his debtor, and bought the mortgaged property in execution on 
iStb January 1882. Plaintiff brought the present action against Hwo 
defendants to obtain a declaration of title to, and possession of, that 
property, alleging that defendants had taken the crop cff the land 
after plaintiff's purchase. The second defendant had on 19th April 
1881 purchased the same land in executi >n of a money judgment 
against plaiotiff*s mortgagor during the subsistence of the mortgage. 

Held^ affirming the decision of the court below, that plaintiff^ not 
baving joined in bia mortgage suit the purchaser in execution of the 
money judgment (the present second defendant) could not succeed in 
the present suit. 

PlaintiCf sued to recorer possession of a f share of a ^eld 
which he had purchased on 18th January 1883 tnexecatioQ 
of a decree in his own favour passed in a suit on a mortgage* 
bond, in which present plaincifiE was plaintiff, which decree 
had declared the land in question specially bound and 
executable to satisfy the mortgage debt. The present 
defendants were alleged to have taken the crop off the land 
and to be disputiog plaintiff*s title. .The defetuknts in 
answer alleged that the land had been purchsed by and 
defendant on 19th April ]83i in execution of a money 
judgment against plaintiff's mortgagor daring the subsis* 



294 

fence of the mortgage, and that and defendant had been ia 
possession since his purchase. 

At the triali parties' proctors agreed upon the following 
points : 

I. That 2nd defendant purchased this land under writ 
in 0. R. Matale 45,341, on 19th April 1881. 

a. That the land was specially mortgaged to plaintiff, 
and that plaintiff having obtained jndgment on his mortgage 
bond sold up the specially mortgaged field and purchased 
it under writ in D- 0* Kandy 88,859, on i8th January 1881. 

3. That defendants disputed plaintiff's rights. It is 
disputed whether defendant did 6t did not take possessioQ 
of the field after his purchase ia April 188 1« 

4. The institution of D. 0. Kandy 88,859 was on 31st 
July 1881. 

The Commissioner (L. 6. Tate) gave judgmeoi ^s fol« 
lows :— 

^' In this case I am of opinion that the purchase by Jnd 
defendant on 19th April 1881 tnust be upheld. He pur« 
chased the land subject to plaintiff's naortgage, and the 
mortgage would therefore follow the land. The suit oa 
the mortgage bond would have to be taken against the 
purchaser at that sale. Plaintiff is noix-stiited with cdsts/' 

Plaintiff appealed. 

Dornhorstf for the appellant, contended that whether or 
not the defendant was in possession at the institation of the 
mortgage suit was a question of fact, and required evidence 
to prove it in the absence of admission. Even if the de* 
fendant had been then in possession » all be could now 
demand of the plaintiff was proof of the mortgage debt as 
against defendant. The omission of plaintiff to join in his 
mortgage suit the purchaser under the money judgment Aid 
not for ever deprive plaintiff of his right to obtain posaes.*^ 
sion of the land which he had bought in execatioa of his 
mortgage decree. 

The defendants were not represented in appeaK 

Cur, adv» vulU 

(ist May). Clarence, J.—- 1 think this judgment right. 
Defendant's purchase is» of course, subject to plaintiff^s 
ttortgage, but, according to previous decisions of this Ootirt» 



295 

plaintiff's judgment against the mortgagor <loes not bind 
this defendant. 



Affirmed^ 



Proctor for plaintiff, F, A. Prins. 
Proctor lor defendants, f. B. WiUiamson. 



12th Junet 1883. 
Present— BuRNSiDB» C, J., and Olabbnca, J, 



DO 1 '^^^ Quvxn's Advocatb 



Colombo^ ^ Mutatantrige Hbndrick Curb and others* 
I jBr parte C. LissOHiNa, Fiscal for the Wes- 
'•5'5®* J tern Province. 

ParcUe execution ^^Fiscals Ordinance^ sect, ^i'^^ Necessity 
Jbr separate iuit^^Notice of motion to parties affected' 

Parate cxccotion, under sections 50 and 5 1 of the Fi*caU Ordinaneet 
1867, shouH issae in the suit in which the original execution issued. 
No notice of the motion for parate execution need be given to the party 
affected, who may be heard upon motion to recall the writ. 

In this case judgment by default was entered for the 
plaintiff for Rs. 687.48 and interest and costs against the 
second defendant! on 23rd March i88i, and against ths 
first and third on 1 6th August 1882. Upon writ issued, 
the Deputy Fiscal of Panadura seized and sold in satisfac- 
tion of the judgment a share in a land called Ambegaha- 
watte, the property of the first defendant. At the sale on 
i6th November 18 32, Mututantrige Marselino Gure became 
the purchaser for Rs. 17+0. His sureties were Colembe' 
patthendige Grigoris Pereray Dadegamiiwage Bon Bjstian 
Peirist -^Jututantrige Arnolis Cure, and Mututantrige Hen* 
drick CurC' The one^fourth purchase money was paid, but 
default was made in the payment of the balancei Rs, 1305, 
within two months of the sale* as stipulated in the Gondii 
ttons of Sale* The property was accordingly resold on 27th 
February 1883, at the risk of the original purchaser* and 
was bought by one Samuel Cure for Rs. 512* On 19th 
March 1883, the Fiscal for the Western Province filed an 
e^avit setting out the above facts, and moved that parate 
execution might be issued against the first purchaser Marse^ 



296 

Una Curt and his soreties» to recoTer the difference between 
the amoants realised at the two sales> viz. Bs. 1228. The 
District Judge (T. Berwick) disallowed this motion for want 
of nottccy and the Fiscal appealed- 

Layardf for the appellant — The application for parate 
execution has rightly been made in the suit in which the 
original execution issued. See remarks of Catlxt» C. J« 
in Liescking v* Silva (i)> It is of the very nature of parate 
execution that it should issue without notice to the party 
to be affected by it. Voet (ad Pand,^ 42. i. 48) speaks of 
**executio parata sine forma judkii*^ 

The Supreme Court, considering the question of parate 
execution, said as follows (Marshall's judgments, p 179): 
''Though the creditor, who took upon himself to aver the 
necessary facts, was permitted to arrive per solium at that 
stage which in ordinary cases is only to be attained by 
regular steps, there was no reason why, from this point* 

the proceedings should differ from other cases 

As an execution, obtained by regular and gradual proceed* 

ine, might still be challenged, and might be ''taken 

off" by the Court from which it issued^ if it appeared to 
have been improperly or irregularly obtained, so a fortiori 
such power of revision ought to exist in cases of parate 
execution •.•••. in which the seizure of the person or 
property is the initiation of the proceeding, previouslv to 
which the defendant has no opportunity of contest ing the 
claim.** And again (p 181): " Such right of opposition 
was the more necessary in a case like the present, where 
the defendant had no opportunity of opposing the applica* 
tioD at the time of making it, since the Regulation was im- 
perative on the court to issue the writ on the plaint (true or 
false) of the auctioneer, without further pleading or process." 

The learned District Judge has himself pointed out that 
the right course for the party against whom the writ issues 
IS to come in and move for its recall on proper notice to 
the plaintiff and Fiscal. Davithami v. Meera Lehhe (2). 

BuRNSiDB, C J«-^I think the writ should go. It is an 
old form of proceeding engrafted on our Fiscais Ordinance* 
The very term parate seems to show that it must issne 
without notice and in the original suit. There can be no 
costs, of course* 

(1) 4 S. C. C, 142. I (,2) 3 S. C.C, 11, 



297 



Clarbncs, J. — I also think this writ should have issued 
cr parte* The purchaser against whom- i( issues will have 
an opportunity of cootesting it by moving to have it re- 
called. 



Set aside. 



Proctor for the plaintiff, H* Van Cuylenhurg* 
Proctor for the Fiscal. R. F. de Saram. 



1st and igth ^une, 1883. 
Present — Busnside, C. J., and ClasencK) J. 

C. R. \ KUMASAYALOS 

itticaloa,> v, 

6,209. J MoHiDiK Bawa and two others. 

Bond — Prescription. 



The plaintiff sued od an instrament which, after acknowledging the 
Roetpt of a sum of money, provided for the recovery of it with interest 
In case of default of payment. The parties, in the body of the instru" 
inent, called it a " money debt bond," " this bond," " this unprofes- 
aional bond" ; it bore the stamp proper to a bond for the amount 
mentioned, and professed to create a general mortgage over all the 
property of the obligors. Plea, prescription. 

Htldj that this instrument was not a " bond." 

Held also, that regard being had to the intention of the parties, as 
evidenced by the use of a bond 'Stamp and by other circumstances, it 
would be inequitable to allow the defendants to set up the shorter 
term of prescription as for a promissory note. 

Observations on the requisites to constitute a '* bond" in this country* 

This was an action, begun on 29th August 18821 by the 
obligee against the obligors upon the following instrument* 
dated 5th September 1874 : 

^'To Sidam|)eranatfaer fiomaravelo of Navelkuda «»*..«••. .the 

money debt bond granted by Isooboo Lebbe Mohadeen Bawa and 
Isooboo Lebbe Mohamado Tamby of Kattankudiaripu is to the follow- 
ing effect : — We have now received the stim of Rb. 45 from the said 
Kumaravelo,. and in failure to pay the amount in full as .prin^ip«l 
within one month's time, wc allow interest to be recovered by suing at 
the rate of 35 per cent per annum from the expiration of the time for 
payment till recovery, along with the principal from us and from all 
our property. Having thus consented we have written and granted 
this bond to Kuraaravelo by Mohadeen Bawa and the other. ^ Witnesses 
-whereof are [here follow 3 names]. At the consent of the parties this 
unprofessional [informal, simple] bond was written by affixing a stamp 
of 15 cents." 



298 

The defdn^atits Ifirst filed an answer in person, wherein 
tbciy pleaded that they had in 1873 granted to plaintiff a 
4>ond for the debts of plaintiff's sister, after which they had 
made certain payments on that bond, and for the balance 
granted the bond in i|ue8tion» which they had paid and 
settled. An amended answer was subsequently filed, 
pleading that the cause of action was prescribed under sec- 
tion 4 of Ordinance No. 8 of 1834 and section 7 of Ordi- 
nance No. 22 of 187 1> 

At the trial) the Court (£• C Pole, Commissioner) upheld 
the plea of prescription and nonsuited the plaintiff. 

Plaintiff appealed* 

The appeal was first argued before Clabencb, J , by 
Domharsty for the appellant, and 8amp'iy% for the respoa- 
4enU By direction of Clarrncb, J., the case was put on 
for argument before the Full Court, and, Dlils, J., being 
absent on Circait, now came on* 

Browne, for the plaintiff, appellant*-* A bond in our law 
is the equivalent of the Uterarum ehligatio of the Roman 
Dutch Law. This is defined by Van der Keessel, Thesis 
Dxzi (commenting on Grotius, Bk. 3, cap. 5, section i) as 
follows : — " Literarum BbligatWy which is used by Grotins 
in a wider sense than under the Roman Law, is any pro* 
mise reduced into writing, to do something arising from any 
just cause or consideration, and even from any other nomi- 
nate contract: and differs therefore essentially from the 
mere acknowledgment of a debt made in writing, to which 
no promise is annexed.*' The present instrument falls 
within this definition. It also professes to create a general 
iportgage over the obligors' property^ which (though gene« 
ral mortgages are now abolished) indicates that the parties 
intended to enter into a bond* This intention 16 further 
borne out by the fact that the stamp of i j cents affixed is 
that proper to a bond, a j cent stamp sufficing; for a pro- 
loissory note. If the present document be a *' bond," the 
iaction on it will only be prescribed in 10 years* (Section 
6, Ordinance 22 of 1871.) 

Sampayo, for the defendants, ron/ra— The old Prescription 
Ordinance, No. 8 of 1834, spoke in section 3 of bonds 
*' whether notarial or not, and whether under seal or not.** 
The corresponding provision in the new Ordinance, 22 of 



29» 

1871, section 6^ says nothing of bonds not under seal* 
apparently attaching ta the word ^'bond** the meaning it 
bears in English Law» frooa which the term is derived. 
[Cl4SSHOB» J.— -The Ordinance of 1834 seems to recog^ 
nise such a thing as a bond not under seaU which is a con«- 
tradiction in terms^. As to the stamp» it is not open ta 
parties to entirely change the character of an instrament 
by affixing a higher stamp duty | in this iostaaoe* to convert 
a promissory note into a. bond» by affixing a bond stamps 
to it. 

CuF> ado. tfttZ/.* 

(19th June)^ BuRiiSfi>«».0. J.-*The question for dect«. 
sion in this case is, whether a particular instrument not 
under seal is a bond or only a written security wtthiO' 
clauses 3 and 4 of the Prescription Ordinance 8^ of 1 834. 

By the 3rd section of that Ordinance, which is the pre^ 
scription Ordraance applying to the present case^tbe instru« 
ment in qaestion having been executed before it was re^ 

* At the first argamentt before CLAtBNCB, J^ Grenier as omteiUv 
oirtar referred the Court to the two following cases^ in which a simi- 
lar question had arisen. 

In a 12. Cblomto^^^, (Civ. Min. of Sop. et^ 13th Feb. 1866) 

the material part of the instniment (which was in Tamil) was as 
follows ^ 

^ This debt bond whicb was caused to be written and granted to 

Gabriel Gomis - is as- follows, to wit^^owtngr to m? neoes« 

sitf I have this day borrowed and received the sum of £. 6-on interest^ 
which sum of ^6 is to be paid on 6th September next ensuing with 
interest at the rate of i^ per cent and after satisfying the same receive 
back this bond/^ 

6. SUwarty Conunissioner, held this to be a bond, '' beinjif simply an 
undertaking to pay an existing debt with interest.** The plaintiff 
refusing to stamp the instrument as a bond, his action was dismissed^ 
and on his appealing^ the Supreme .Court . simply afflrmed the judg- 
ment. 

In 0. R^ Colomba $o6i^y (Supreme Ct. Civil Min., ijtb June 1867 )< 
the above case was ated and relied on. Here the instrument (whicti 
was also in Tamil); was as follows i. 

^The debt, bond which was caused to be written- and granted on 

this ist June 1866 to ....•• ..,« to the following purport, to wit, I do 

hereby declare to have in a case of my necessity borrowed and received 
this day from the above person the sum of £ 3, equal to rix dollars 40» 
Therefore I do hereby agree to compute interest thereon at the rate of a; 
per cent and to pay both the said sunv of rix dollars 4fy and interest 
on demand of the said creditor.^'*' 

The question here too turned on the stamp» and the Commissioner 
{H. IV, GUlmoH) after carefully considering the meaning of the Tamil 
words employed, held the instrument to be a promissory note» la 
appeal, the Supreme Ooart simply affirmed this {udgnnift too* 



soa 

pealed) an action or clainr on certain instrnments, and 
amongst them a " bond" conditioned for the future pay* 
ment of money, whether under the seal of the obligor or 
not, is prescribed after lo years ; whilst by section 4» aa 
actron or claim npon a written security not falling within 
the description of instrnments set forth in section 2I» is 
presortbed af ter 6 years. 

The plaintiff in his pleadings described the instrmnent as 
a ** bond/' and so contended at the trial. The defendant 
in the first instance filed an answer in person, in which he 
himself ealledf the instrunient a ** bond/' the execution of 
which he admits, and pleads payment. Subsequently he 
was allowed to put in a further answer* which he did by a 
proctor, and he then pleaded prescription under the 4tb 
clause of the Ordinance. The learned Judge of the Court 
of Requests, without giving any reason, upheld the plea of 
prespriptioui and the plaintiff thereupon appealed. In the 
instrument itself (I quote from the translation which I 
find as a part of the record in the case — I do not myself 
know anything of Tamil — ) it is stated that the obligor had 
granted this '* money debt bond," and *' had caused this 
bond to be written and granted," and in the attestation " at 
the instance of the parties this unprofessional bond was 
taken." 

Althongh by the law of this Colony sealing is not neces^ 

. sary ta the validity of any instrument, it seems to be a 

' contradiction in terms to call an instrument not under seal 

•i a ^ bond,'' a word which has a recognised legal meaning, 

\ indicating an instrument under seal. In 2X C* Colomla 

00,998, 4 S. C, 0., 8 j, a case in which I appeared a» 

Counsel, I find it stated that ** a bond is a bond and a deed 

is a deed, whether it has a seal or not,, if in other respects 

it is executed as required by law." It is my misfortune 

that I am unable to see how this statement advances the 

argument* I can find no principle by which we can be 

guided in arriving at a conclusion on this pointy and I am 

afraid that the question is more one of fact than of law. 

The parties to this instrument evidently treated it as 

a *' bond>" until the proctor for the defendant appears 

npon the scene ; and taking this fact in connection with 

the fact that, by the translation of the instrument, it is 

declared to be a ** bond," I think we most as ' a matter of 

fact treat it as a " bond." 

The judgmont of the Court of Requests is therefore set 



301 

aside with costs* aad the case seat back ta the Commissioiiep 
to deal with the issaes raised by the first answer, the plain* 
tifiE being entitled to judgment on the plea of prescription. 

Clabekgb* J« — The question raised by this appeal is„ 
whether the instrument upon which the plaintiff sues is a 
<* bond" within the meaning of section 6 of Ordinance Nov 
22 of 1871. . 

The instrument is in Tamil attested by three witnesses 
bat not notarially. Its purport is that the defendants ac^ 
knowledge to hare received Rs» 45 from the plaintiff |i»ayable 
in one month from the da'e of the instrument (5th Sep* 
tember 1874) aad they agree that in default of such pay* 
ment the principal may be recovered with interest at 25 per 
cent per annum. 

The defendants first of all answered in person, admitting, 
that they granted the instrument* but setting up what seems 
to have been m^ant for a plea of satisfaction. They after- 
wards filed a fresh answer signed by a proctor, which set 
up simply the defence non accrevit intra sex annosp. and 
pleaded the 4th section of Ordinance 8 of 1834 and the 7th 
section of Ordinance 22 of 1871. The Commissioner 
without assigning any reason upheld the plea of prescription,, 
and plaintiff appeals* 

The instrument having been made in 1874, it falls». so fav 
as prescription is concerned, under the Ordinance 22 of 
i87i. It certainly is a '* written promise or contract,** and 
as such must fall under the seventh section of that Ordi4. 
nance if there be no other part of the Ordinance governing 
the matter. If section ) is the section that applies, the 
present action is barred, not having been brought within six 
ye2LX%* Plaintiff, however, contends that the instrume;it 
falls under section 6, the term of prescription in which is 
ten years. The actions embraced by that section are actions 
" for the recovery of any sum due upon any hypothecation 
Or mortgage of any property, or upon any bond conditioned 
for the payment of moneys or for the performance of aqy 
agreement or trust or the payment of penalty.*' Plaintiff 
contends that the instrument sued on is a ^* bond condition.* 
ed for the payment of money.*' 

*' Bond" is an £nglish Law term having a specific mean- / 
ing. It means a written obligation or acknowledgment of .' 
debt under seal. Bat as the English distinction between f 
specialties or acknowledgments or contracts under seal and ] 



902^ 

promises not mndler seal has no plaee in the law •f this- 
Island, it becomes » difficult taak to ooQ|ectcire what was 
the intentioo of our Legislature in using the term ^ bondv."^ 
The term is also used in the Ordinance &o§ 1834* There 
has been undoubtedly^ in countries governed by the Romaa 
Civil Law^ a distinction drawn l)etween instruments private 
and instruments authenticated by judicial officees or notaries* 
f but there is not in our system anything like the Englisb 
{ distinction between instruments under seal and instruments 
\ not under seal. It is therefore very dkficult to find anir 
principle on which we ean interpret here a technical term: 
borrowed from the English Law, ixh which its meaning had 
reference to a distinction which does not exist here. I think 
it best not to attempt to guess at the questton,. but to con- 
tent myself by saying that, whether the word ^ bond" has 
been used by our Legislature in simple heedlessness, or with, 
some definite intent, so far as eoncerns the instrument before- 
me I see no reason why the instrument shouki.be placed on a« 
different footing from the simplest class of acknowledgments 
of debt or promises to pay. It is simply an acknowledg- 
ment of debt signed before witnesses* with an undertaking 
that if the debtor fails to pay on< a specific date the creditor 
may recover it with specified interest. Wba4;ever may have- 
been meant by " bond" in our Ordinance, I see no reason 
why such an instrument as this should be called a bond and 
so placed on a different footing to a simple promise to pay. 

If this instrument had been written in English,, and being 
so written had styled itself a *^ bond," it might have beea 
reasonably argued that the parties should be regarded as 
having mutually intended that it should entail the rights and 
liabilities attached by our Legislature tethe word *' bond.'* 
The instrument however i^ in Tamil, and the Tamil eitpres^ 
sion which has been translated " bond" means, so far as I 
understand it, simply particulars of debt. 

By the kindness of Mr. Greniery amicu& curuB% I was 
furnished, when this case first came before me, with refers 
ence to two previous cases which came up in appeal to thia 
Courts and in which the point was moetod, what meaning 
is to be assigned to the term " bond" as employed by our 
Legislature. These cases however throw no light upon the 

question. In the first, ^5|^ C. R. Colombo, S^ 0. Civ. 

Min., 17 th October 1865, the instrument was in Tamil». 
witnessed but not notarial, and styled itself «t.cir SiLQ- 
or << debt note.** It was in fact a simple acknowledgment 



903 

t>t debt with promise to f>ay. The qoestioa arose under the 
Stamp Ordinance* and the Commissioner held as follows : 
^' The Court thinks that the instrument is a bond, it being 
simply an undertattiag to pay an existing debt with in- 
terest*'' In appeal that judgment was simply affirmed, the 
Supreme Court stating no reasons* This is certainly a very 
UDsatisfactory case. 

In No. jo,6i7 0. R. Colombo, S. C. Civ* Hin., 13th 
May 18679 the question also arose under the Stamp Ordi« 
nance. Here the instrument was also in TamiU witnessed 
but not notarial ; it styled itself Mi^tk 9iL(S and mi^mr 

Qfi^^enr and was a simple acknowledgment of debt with 
a promise to pay. The case just quoted was cited, but the 
Commissioner held the instrument to be a promissory note, 
which decisioQ was in appeal simply affirmed. 80 that this 
latter decision overrules the former, but in neither was there 
any discussion shewing that the difficulty of the question 
had been entertained. There is an older case reported in 
Morgan, Condsrlag and Prins, No. 18, p 4, in which the 
Supreme Court said, ** An instrument, which though in- 
consequentially termed a bond (for in words there is no 
magic) is but a mere acknowledgment of a certain sum of 
money lent and advanced, to be recovered from the debtor 
personally upon a condition, is no actual bond, and does not 
require ten years to be prescribed.*' 

• Thus, so far as authority goes, although there has been 
no discussion in this Court of the difficult question : — what 
did the Legislature mean by " bond*'? — such authority as 
there is supports me in holding that at any rate such an 
instrument as this is not a bond* 

but I do find one circumstance from which I infer that 
the parties when they made it supposed it to be a bond. It 
bears a i j cent stamp, which having regard to the amount 
of the debt would be the proper stamp if it were a bond» 
whereas if it were only a promissory note t^ cents would 
have been enough. I do not attach much importance to 
the circumstance that in their first answer, drawn for them 
by some illiterate petition drawer, the instrument is styled 
a bond ; but I can only explain the amount of the stamp by 
supposing that the parties considered the instrument to be 
of a more solemn character than a promissory note 3 and 
the inference which I draw is that they supposed it to be a 
bond. As I have already said :— Whatever a bond may or 
may not be# I do not think this is one, but siace in my 



304 

<!^inioD the parties joined in supposing it to be one wben 
they made it» I think h would be inequitable to allow de« 
fendants to set up the shorter term of prescription. I mdy 
also observe that the defendants' first answer suggests the 
existence of matters subsequent to the making of the iastru<» 
ment, which having regard to section 13 of the Ordinances 
would operate to postpone the commencement of the pre- 
scriptive term. 

I agree that the judgment be Set aside and the case sent 
back to the Court of Requests in order that defendants may 
have opportunity of supporting the pleas raised in iheir first 
answer. Defendants must pay the costs of this appeal and 
of the trial day . 

Set isiside. Further trial* 

« 

Proctor for plaintiff, F. A, Speldemnde. 
Proctor for defendants, C» Suppramanian* 



20th and 16th yune^ 1883. 
Present^-^CLARBNCB, J. 



C. R. -J F. C. Loos 
Colombo, > V. 

32>334- ^ Sbkana. Lbbbe. 



Insolvency — Property acquired pending insolvency ^ sale of 
in execution -^yudgment on debt contracted pending insolvency 
-^ Right of purchaser to sue for rent ^Surrender by assignee 
to Insolvent — Ordinance 7 of 1853, sect. 7/./. 

Pending the Insolvency and before the certificate of K., wko bad a 
life^interest (acquired pending the insolvency) in a house occupied by 
defendant, plaintiff purchased K.*s interest in the house ' at a sale in 
execution of a judgment against K. obtained upon a debt contracted 
pending the insolvency Plaintiff now sued defendant for use and 
occupation. Defendant admitted occupation, but pleaded the insolvency 
and bis liability to the assignee for the rent. 

Heldf that the right to recover rent had passed to and was vested in 
the assignee, and that plaintiff's action bad been rightly dismissed. 

Qu(Br€f whether, if the assignee had surrendered the property in ques- 
tion to the insolvent, the plaintiff would have acquired any right by his 
purchase prior to such surrender. 

Plaintiff began this action, on i6th August 1881, to 
recover Rs 98 for the use and occupation during seven 
months of plaintiff's house by defendant, *' as a monthly 



305 

tenant** Defendant admitted the use and oocopationi but 
went on to deny that plaintiff had purchased the right and 
title of ^. G. de Kroes, and that Kroes had any right in the 
house ; and set out» among other immaterial matters, that 
defendant had received from J^. L. A, Phebust Kroes* 
assignee in insolvency, a notice that all Kroes* right had 
▼esled In his assignee, to whom all rent was payable } that 
the house was held subject to B^fidei commissumt and Kroes* 
interest was therefore not alienable. 

At the first trial (before ^. E. Smart, Oommr) it was 
proved that Kroes had been declared insolvent on 14th Oc. 
tober 1879 1 ^^^^ ^^^ judgments (Nos. 82,953 and 83* 14^ 
2). C Colombo) in execution of which plaintiff had purchased 
Kroes* right to the house, had been obtained on aoth 
December 1880 and 17th January 1881 respectively; that 
the debts on which these judgments had been obtained had 
been contracted after the insolvency ; and that at the time 
of the insolvency Kroes had no interest in the house. De- 
fendant further proved that since the judgment in 0. R. 
Colombo 28,460 (June 1882) he had been making Kroes a 
subsistence allowance at the assignee's request. 

The Court having given judgment for the plaintiff* on 
appeal by the defendant, the Supreme Court set the judg- 
ment aside and sent the case back for further trial. At the 
second trial (before W. y. 8, Boake, Commr.) the evidence 
previously recorded was read of consent, and the assignee 
proved that the iosolvency proceedings were still pending, 
that the inaolvent's life interest in the house hiad been 
acquired pending the insolvency, that he had not surrendered 
the house to the insolvent, and that he had requested de* 
fendant (who had been in occupation of the house for 4 or 5 
years) to pay the rent to Kroes as an allowance pending ia« 
solvency, but that, had such payment not been made to 
Kroest he (the assignee) would have claimed the rent. Kroes 
obtained a certificate on 12th September 1882, his creditors 
being still unpaid. 

The Court held that there had been no surrender by the 
assignee to the insolvent, and that (had there been such 
surrender) the assignee had not the power to make it : 



806 
foriher, tint the sale pendio^ insolvaocf was invalid. 
Plaiodffs actioQ was dismissed* and he appealed. 

VanLangenherg for the plaintiff* appellant. 

Browne {ff it hers with him) for the defendant* respondent. 

Cur. adv, vuli^ 

(26th June). Bctkvsidi* C. J.— Pendingthe insolvency and 
before the certificate of one Kroes, who had l>een the owner 
of a house and premises in the occupation of the defendant, 
the plaintifE purchased Kroes* interest at a Fiscal's sale* and 
now sues the defendant for use and occapation. The 
defendant admits the occapation* but pleads the insolvency 
of KroeSf and says that be (defendant) is liable to the 
assignee for the rent. 

He also says that the property was held by Kroes subject 
to a Jidei commissum and therefore could not be sold as 
Kroes' property. If this were so* then the property wonld 
not have passed to Kroes* assignee* bat as there has been no 
evidence on this latter point* I need not farther notice it. 

The learned Commissioner has given judgment for the 
defendant on the ground that* the property having passed 
to the assignee, the plaintiff has no title to sue. The plain^ 
tiff has appealed At the bar the plaintiff relied, as an 
estoppel, on a previous jadgment obtained by him against 
the same defendant for the use and occupation of the same 
premises for some months previous to the action. 

If the jadi(ment operated as an estoppel, the plaintiff 
should have pleaded it. I do not find that it has been either 
pleaded or put in evidence^ I am not therefore called on to 
decide upon its effect. It is clear that* upon the insolvenoy 
of Kroes, all his real estate* of which it is admitted the pro. 
L periy in question forned a part* vested in his assignee 
'7/ ^ under the 7Qt h section of Ordinance 7 of 1853. 

1 he plaintiff being a purchaser after the insolvency and 
before the certificate* acquired no right to claim rent from 
tiiti defendant* who was in the occupation of th6 premises- 
Such rfght possed to and was vested in the assignee, and 
even supposing that the assignee had the right to snrrendi^r 
and had surrendered the property to the insolvent* of which 
there is no proof, it would be very questionable whether 
snch surrender Would give the plaintiff any rights against 
the defendant on the purchase which had been made pre^^ 



Ti'aus to the wrreiider. The aisignoe, howeyer, jays that 
he has not saireadered. snd that he told the defendant aat 
to pa; the rent. 



Proctor for the plaintiff, H- VanCuyisnburg. 
Proctor for the defendant, Jf. B- Rodrigut;. 




landlord and tenant -~-]S(itice I 
holding 0, 



quit — Increated rent for 



: pUi, 



t the plaintiB'a 



s. 51.50 per mamh (or sucli time as the dcfcnilant 
■hoiili bolU OTcr. The defEndaat quitted Cbc liouM uD I5tb 01 iStli 
Apiil, ajiil plaintiff bcuugtit this aciian to lecovet Rs. 50 a.s leat lor 
April. 

Btld, that plaintiS was entitled to leravcr. 

Defendant was plaimlff's monthly tenant of a hoasci pay- 
ing Ks- 31.50 rent per nionih- Def«ndaat entered at tho 
end of March, 1S81, paying a moocti'a rem in advance- Oa 
aoih February i88j, plainLifE gave dt^fendant notice to qiut 
the house at the end of the following March, intimaliag 
that ill the eveat cf defendant's holding over after 31st 
March he wouid be charged rent at the increased rate of 
Bs. jo a month. Plainiifl, alleging that defendant had held 
orer till iSth April, claimed rent at the old rate for March. 
~ ' ~ . 50 for the period held over in April. The 
receipt of the notice to 
e soch notice, as there 
nt brought into Court 
^rate for only 15 days in 
pinued in occupation -, 
F March, 1883. 
Ft Gommissianer) held 
ftcoyered the rent for 




308 

March 1883; but gave jodgmeot for the plaintiff lor 
Rs.50 as rent at the increased rate* lor the days held over 
in April* 1883. 

The defendant appealed. 

Browne (Layard with him) for the appellant— A landlord 
cannot recover for the period held over any sntn he pleases 
to fix. His action is for damages for ase and occupation, 
which must be assessed in the usual way. Again, he can 
only recover for the precise number of days during which 
the tenant held over— not for a whole mouthy when the 
tenant has held over only 15 days. 

Where the tenant* has given notice of his intention to 
quit, and holds over, he is liable under an English Statute, 
II Geo. a» €• ipy 8. 18, to pay double rent, but that Statute 
does not operate here. 

He also referred to Yoet> ad Pand»r 19* 2. 32, Berwick's 
Transln.y p 227. 

Wendtt for the plaintiff, contra — The landlord^ at the end 
of March 1883, was enlitled to delivery of possession. He 
said to the tenant, " If you suy on beyond that time, I 
shall charge you at the rate of Rs. 50 a month." The 
tenant, having continued in possession without objection^ 
must be taken to have acquiesced in the new terms. Wood« 
fall^ L. isf r., I ith Ed., p 698. Roberts v. Hayward (r). 
The action is clearly for rent, not for damages for use aod 
occupation f and where the tenancy was from month to 
month, and the notice given extended over the whole month 
of March, it is only reasonable that plaintiff should recover 
for the whole of April, although defendant was in oocupa^ 
tion only for fifteen or eighteen days in that month. 

He also referred to Voet, ad Pand., 19. 2. 9, 10, ip 
Berwick, pp 197^ i98> 201. I>igest, 19. a. 13. 11 in fin. 

Cur* adv. vuU. 

(13th July). Clarbnob^ J>— -I think that this judgment 
is right. Defendant was a monthly tenant at a rent of 
Bs. 31.50 per month* the tenancy beginning from the ist 
March 1S81. In Februaiy 1883, plaintiff g^® defendant 
notice that he should require defendant to quit on the 31st 

March following or pay an increased rent of Rs. 50 per 

I ■ — • ■ * • 

(i> 3 cat P., 431, 



309 

month. Defendant so far as appears made no reply to 
plaintiff's notice, bnt simply continued to occupy the ftionse 
until the 15th or i8th April (it does not appear which) when 
he left. The judgment appealed against gives plaintiff 
Ss. 50 for the month of April, defendant having paid up to 
|he end of March, and of that defendant in my opinion is 
not in a position to complain. If we are to regard him as 
having assented to plaintiff's offer to let him the house at 
the increased rent, there is of course nothing more to be 
said ; but if we are not to regard him as having actually 
agreed to a new tenancy, he is m the positron of a tenant 
who has overheid after the determination of his term. 
Thus* taking the case on that footing, this is an action for 
use and occupation. It is no doubt (o be presumed in the 
absence of material to the contrary that an over holding 
tenant continues to hold at the old reht, but that presump^* 
tion may yield to circumstances* As Lord Denman puts 
it in Mayor of Thetford v. Tyter (t), it is a question for the 
jury^ what the use and occupation are wortb| and the fact 
that the landlord had given notice that he should require an 
increased rent of Rs^ 50 in the event of the tenant staying 
on is very fair material on which to assess the use and 
occupation rent at Rs. 50 per month* See Elgar v- fPat' 
son (3)« 



J^firmed* 



Proctor for the plaintiff, 3f. N. Keiih^ 
Proctor for the defendant. H. MarskalL 



4<A and ijtk yuly, 1885. 

Preaent'^Ci.ARBNCB^ J* 

C. R. \ G. Cotton 
Nuwara £liya, ? v. 

8,387. ^ A. H. Cakpbbll and others. 

Cluhf action against for goodt supplied-^ lAmbility, ofSicre* 
iary to be sued — Fractice'^ Execution. 

A Clab is not a partnership, neither is it a corporation capable of 
being sned through the representation of any officer or member of its 
iKxly. The remeidy of a tradesman who has supplied goods to the 

. (1) 8 a 8., 95, i (a) Car. & M., 494. 



810 

Club is sitnplf an action afirainst tbose persons wbo ha%e eontractfid 
with bim ; and Wibaiever Judgroeot be may obuin is enforceable 
against those persons and their property. 

Where the defendants were C, Secretary of the N B. €lub^ three 
other persons named, " and others members of the said Cluu^" and 
judgment was entered against C. wiih a direction that it should be 
enforced only against the common property of the Club ;. 

Held^ that this judgment was an absurdity,, and that a {.udgment 
against C. was legally leviable on C *^s own property and on nothing 
else. 

The facts of this case sufficiently appear from the judg* 
meat of the Appellate Court. 

The first defendant^ appellant* was not represented upon 
the appeal. 

De Saram for the plaintiff,, respondent. 

.Cur, adv» vult* 

(17th July). Ci.ABBNCB», J.«*>The plaintiff in this action 
sues to recover a sooi of Rs. 9449 for dairy produce sup-* 
plied to the Nuwara Eliya Club. So far as appears there 
seems no doubt that plaintiff supplied the goods and that 
he has not been paid. It is certainly nK)St discreditable to 
the Nuwara Eliya Club that a tradesman stiould have been 
compelled to sue for the amount of a small undispu-ed bilU 

Unfortunately the proceedings which have taken place 
in this action have been entirely misconceived* and seem ta 
have been founded in a complete ignorance uf what is a 
very simple and well known matter of law. A Club is 
not a partnership : neither is it a corporation capable of 
being sued through the representation of any officer or 
member of its body. The remedy of a tradesman who has 
supplied goods to the Club is simply aa action against those 
persons who have contracted with him ; and whatever 
judgment he may obtain is enforoeabte against those per« 
sons and their property. The parties so responsible to the 
tradesman are those who have contracted with him either 
personally or through some authorised agept. The qnes^ 
tions which arise in such cases — whether a defendant has 
contracted with the tradesotan^-^whether he has authorised 
some other person to pledge Jiis Qris(iMli*-?and the like, aitq 
simply questions of fact to be determined according to the 
circumstances. 

Unfortunately for the plaintiff the :pcoctor who represent^ 
«d him tn the </ourt of Requests seems -to have -oompUtely 
misconceived the nature t)f the platntffi^s remedy. When 



i 



311 

this appeal came on More me, I adjourned the hearing for 
a short tioiey in the hope that some settlement might be 
arrived at by which the unfortunate plaintiff would get hia 
money without its being necessary for a Court of Appeal to 
deal with the confused mass of misconceived proceedings 
vrhicb has taken place. No snch arrangement having been 
made, I am obliged to deal with the appeal in the ordinary 
manner. 

The plaint states* as the defendants to the action, Mr. 
Campbell (ihe Secretary of the Club) three other gentle* 
men named, and concludes with the absurd item, '' and 
others members of the Nuwara £liya Club.** 

Under date November 3oih, the Commissioner [G> A. 
Baumgartner] sit^ned this entry in the paper-book : *' Ju<ig- 
ment for plaintiff as prayed against defendant against whom 
summons was served, with costs/* It appears that at that time 
one of the defendants, frlr. H- S Saunders, had been served, 
and this entry probably relates to him. The Commissioner, 
however, proceeded to modify this entry by a memoran* 
dum in which be directed that no writ should issue till 
that particular defendant's share of the debt should have 
been determined. 

On the 8th January, the plaintiff's Proctor applied for 
execution against the common property of the Club, an 
application which can only be accounted for by supposing 
that the Praetor was under the singular impression that a 
Club is a kind of corporate body, and that any member of 
the Club is a peisonage through whose representation the 
corporJition may be sued. The Commissioner refused the 
application. 

After this the appellant, Mr. Campbell the Secretary, was 
served, and he not having answered, the Commissioner 
proceeded to an ex parte hearing. Plaintiff wa« sworn, and 
from what he said it appeared that Mr. Campbell had suc^ 
ceeded Mr. Hearn as Secretary, that Mr. He am and Mr. 
Campbell had both been in the habit of ordering supplies 
from plaintifft and th^t some of the goods in question in 
the case (how much plaintiff did not say) had been supplied 
before appellant assumed office* The Commissioner, how.* 
ever, appears to have viewed the action as an action against 
the Club sued by the representation of their Secretary. He 
pronounced judgment against Mr. Campbell, but directed 
that it should be enforced only against *' the common pro. 
perty of the Club." This of course was an absurdity. 



312 

Under a jodgnaent against Mr. Oampbell levy might have 
been made ou Mr. OampbeWs properly, but it coald be 
legally made on nothing else. This took place on the 6th 
March. 

On the xath April, Mr. Campbell applied to have the 
judgment reopened. So far as appears by the Commis- 
sioner's note, the only material pat forward as ground for 
reopening the judgment was a completely insufficient and 
scarcely intelligible attempt at an excuse for not filing 
answer. The Commissioner refused to reopen the jadg« 
roent. Mr. Campbell now appeals against that order* 

Other proceedings are minuted in the paper.book which 
need not be further noticed here. The Court and the two 
Proctors engaged seem to have gone astray upon the idea 
of execution against '' the common property of the Club.*' 

After consideration of this unfortunate mass of proceed- 
ings, I deal with it in appeal as follows: — I decline to 
interfere at appellant's instance with the judgment for 
Rs. 94.49 entered against him for default of answering. 
He has Completely failed to excuse his default, and I shall 
not interfere simply on the merits with the judgment for 
this paltry sum. It appears by plaintiff's evidence that 
appellant has been in the habit since he assumed office of 
ordering goods o\ plaintiff, and although it was not made to 
appear at the ex parte bearing how much of the Rs. 91-49 
worth of butter &c. was supplied on appellant's orders, and 
how much on ^those of his predecessor, Mr Hearn, I atn not 
going for the sake of a defendant who is in delault to take 
up the time of the Court of Requests or this Court in appor^ 
tioning this paltry total of ks- 91- 49* The judgment 
against appellant for that siim will stand, and I must point 
out that as a judgment against appellant it is enforceable 
simply against appellant and appellant*s property. Plaintiff 
has no right to levy under it upon any other property than 
that of appellant. 

With regard to costs, appellant will bear his own costs in 
the Court of Requests, and will pay plaintiff's costs ia 
appeal. As at present advised, I am of opinion that plain* 
tiff's costs in the Court of Requests should be paid by his 
Proctor, whose incompetence appears to have been the 
primary cause of these mistaken and embarrassing proceed, 
ings, and I direct that plaintiff's costs in the Court of 
Bequests be paid by his Proctor, unless within 13 days of 



S13 

this date, and upon notice to plaintiff and to appellant* he 
shows cause before this Court to the contrary. 

Affirmed* 
Proctor for the first defendant, A. Thomasz^ 



i2lh and igik July^ 1883. 
Present — Dias, J. 

C. R« ^ Meragalpedegedera Hawaoia 

Kandy, \ ^' 

aj>032. J £lamalpategedera Sarana. 

Bond — Mortgage — Joint and several liabilUy-^Co^olligees 
'^Recovery of share of one of the obligees* 

Whete a roortgrag« bond, purporting to secure a sum of Rs. 380 
to four mortgagees, provided that in failure of payment " from this 
** mortgage and from the heirs and assigns of me the said debtor 
**tbe said principal and interest due the said four creditors or one 
** of them or any person assigned and authorized by the sAid four 
*' persons are or is empowered to recover in full" ; and plaintiff as the 
assis^nee of one of the creditors sued to recover Rs. 70 as the share due 
to the said creditor ; 

Held, that the plaintiff as representing one of the four creditors was 
entitloi to recover the full amount of the bond, and was therefore clearly 
entitled to recover one fourth. 

The facts sufficiently appear from the following jadgment 
of the Court l>elow (T* Jlf. Gibson, Commissioner) : 

It appears that the defendant borrowed a certain sum of money from 
foar persons on a mortgage deed No, 2^76, and in that deed there is a 
clause stipulating '' that the said principal and unpaid interest shall be 
^'recovered in full by the said four obligees or one of them or any one 
** oHhem who may be assigned and authorized by the others to recover 
*' the same.*' It is therefore quite clear that the case should be brought 
for the whole amount by all -the four persons or by any one of them 
who may be authorized by the three others in some legal manner to tlo 
80. But one of these four persons without any legal authority has 
' assigned over the fourth share of the whole amount to the plaintiff, and 
plaintiff relying on this assignment deed has brought this case for 
}th the amount appearing in the bond. There is nothing to shew 
that the four persons contributed an equal share to the loan an J that 
the assignee is entitled to ^th. Besides, the whole bond should be piit 
in suit and the cause of action should not be split 

The English Law on this point is very clearly laid down in Addisou 
on Contriicts (6th Ed., Chap, zzx, sect. 2, p 1044) : *' A covenant with 
seveial peudns for the payment (k a sum of monejr is a joint covenatft 
with all, in the performance of which they have a joiat idtciest, so tbatt 
One of them cannot sue for his particular share or proportion of the 



314 

eoliKty, l«it afl mo* joiA in toe jomt aotioo lor the whole 5 and tbe 
poioUne out ol the share which each is to take of the entire amoant 
f^U not create a separation of interests so as to enable the parties to 
maintain separate actions." Plaintift's case dbmissed with costs. 

Plaintiff appealed. 

[The material words of the bond in the original were as 
follows: g^d^S C5)<D(5c^^2090 fiefoa^CDied 6«! e^m^as^ 

These words were reodc^red, in the translation used in the 
Court below, *' the said principal and unpaid interest shall 
•* be recovered in full by the said four obligees or one of 
'* them or any one ot them who may be as&igned and 
** authorised by the others to recover the same " The 
translator who gave this version sent up an amended trans - 
latioa with the record* in which he said the transladoa 
should run, ** the four obligees or otherwise by any other 
person who may be assigned and authorized by the said four 
obligees to recover the same." By order of the Supreme 
Court a translation was made by the interpreter attached to 
that Court, which rendered the words as given in the head« 
note to this case]. 

Dvmhorsty for the plaintiff, appellant — It is the privilege 
of the debtor to have only one action brought against him. 
That privilege he has renounced^ and the obj ruction to one of 
the creditors suing for his proportionate sh ire does not lie in 
his mouth. Apart from the bond and its special stipulation, 
the plaintiff would have been entitled to recover, as one of 
four creditors, by the iioman Dutch Law. Van der Linden* 
Instil , Bk. i» sect. 99 § 7 (Henry's Trans., 203). Pothier, 
Obligations, vol. T,,pl. 2, cap. 3, p 144 (Evans's Transl.). 
Van Leeuwen, Oomm., Bk, v, chap, 3, § xi (p 524^ Engl. 
Transl.^ 1820). 

, No Counsel appeared for the respondent. 

Cur» adv* vult* 

(ipth July). DiAs, J.— This case stood over from time 
to time for a correct translation of the bond. The defendant 
granted the bond in favour of four persons, one of whom 
assigned his interest in the bond to the plaintiff, who 
instituted this suit to recover one-fourth of the principal 
and interest due on the bond. In the amended answer 
the defendant denies the plaintiff's right to sue 00 the 



315 

assignment The leanied judge dismissed the case on the 
ground that the plaintiff cannot sue alone. Whether lie 
can do so or not must be determined by the contract whioh 
is embodied in the bond, in that document the defendants 
admits to be indebted ta four persons in Rs. 280. and ia 
failure of payment the defendant authorizes the four credi- 
tors or one of them or any person assigned and authorized 
by the said four persons to recover the whole of the amount. 
According to this stipulation, the plaintiff as representing 
one of the four creditors, is entuled to recover the full 
amount of the bond. This being so, the plaintiff is clearly 
entitled to recover one-fourth. 

Set aside and judgment entered for the plaintiff as prayed 
for with costs of suit in both Courts- 



Set ande. 



Proctor for the plaintiff, Edward Swan* 
Proctor for the defendant, y. D. Jmklaas. 



%oth and. %Jth Jidy^ 1883. 
Present— Clarbncb and Dias, JJ» 



D. C. % P. 1 

Galle, \ 
48,33<5. J W. 



D. C. ^ P. D. J. DB SiLVA. 

V. 

Hbmdrick and others. 



Preference and concurrence'^ Fund in hands of third party ^ 
*^^xet** by notice to pay creditor ^-^ Debt due by Municipality 
''^Notice to Secretary''' Ordinance 17 of 1865, seets. 52 ana 
44- 

Plaintiff, and A., and W. had each obtained judgnsent against the »^ 

present defendant. The Ifunicipaltty of Galle owed defendant a debt. , ^^ ( ^^ ^ j ^It/^' . 
On a4th Jttln the dctendant by word of mou«h and by written notice*' /t^Ury^ 1^^ ^HJ 
requested the Secretary of the Municipality to pay his debt to A. Thei ^ ' i ^ JU 

debt not having been paid owtn^ to the absence of the Chairman of '"'»*'^.'' ^ k 
Ibe Municipality, the plaintiff (on 26th July) and W. (on the a 7th) J^**^* ft^^ '^^ 
attached the debt aodef their respective jiidgments. Plaintiff hayings Cy\ jii^i {^. ^ fC^^t^f* 
obtained a rule on A. and W. to show eause ag^ainst the money being 
applied^ solely or in concurrence, to the satisfaction of plaintiff's jadg« 
menty the District Judge discharged it with costs. 

Beld^ that the notice to the Municipality had been rightly served on 
the Secretary t that the fond bad thereby been '' filed** as the property 
of A. ;, and that plaintiff- bad shown no right to it« 

The plaintiff in this case appealed against an order of the 



316 

District Judge {A. H. Roomalecoeq) discharging with cost* 
a rale obtained by plaintifiE on one Abdtd Kad^ and one 
. U^rakoottf calling upon them to show cause w)»y a debt doe 
to their common defendant by the Municipality of Galle 
should not be applied (eatirely or in concurrence) to the 
satisfaction of plaintiff's judgment. The facts of the case 
sufficiently appear in the judgment of Clabbvob, J. 

Withers for the plaintiff, appellant. 
Damhorst for Abdul Kader, respondent. 

Cur. adv. vuli* 

(27th July). Clarbmcb, J.— The point raised upon 
this appeal is a very simple one- The plaintiff * in this 
action, one Abdul Kader, and one If'irakoon, had each ia a 
separate action obtained judgoieni against the same debtor, 
one Hendrick, Hendrick had a sum of money owing to 
him by the Galle Municipality. Abdul Kader appears. to 
have pressed Hendrick for payment, and Hendrick agreed to 
provide for Abdul Kader^s claim with the money to come to 
himself from the Municipality. Hendrick in pursuance of 
that arrangement went with Abdul Kader to the Secretary 
of the Muuici^aiity, and having staled to the Secretary the 
arrangement that had been made between himself and 
Abdul Kader, handed to the Secretary a written order to pay 
the money to Abdul Kaier, at the same time handing in his 
own receipt for the money. This took place on the 24.th 
July. A clerk of the Municipality wrote out a cheque for 
the amount, but the Treasurer (Government Agent) who 
alone could sign the cheque, not being in the way, no 
cheque wa^ then handed to Abdul Kader. Next day, July 
25th, the plaintiff in this action served the Municipality 
with notice attaching the debt under his judgment* and oa 
the 27th Wirakoon did the same. In consequence of this 
action on the part of present plaintiff and ff'irakoon, the- 
money was not paid to Abdul Kader. Customary delay 
seems then to have taken place, and at length the plaintiff 
In this action obtained the issue of a rule in this action call- 
ing on Abdul Kader and Wirakoon to shew causs why the 
money should not be applied in satisfaction of plaintiff's 
writ or in coQci^rrence. Thereafter the matter was discuss- 
ed in presence of those three parties upon that rule, and the 
District Judge adjudging that Abdul Kader was entitled to 
the money discharged pbiatiff*a rule with cpsl^« 



817 

When the facts are thus ascerteiaecl, it becomes pTain 
that plaintifiTs claim is altogether an maintainable* The 
debt due by the Municipality to Hendrick had become fixed 
as the property of Abdul Kader before plaintiff purported to 
attach it. It would be difficult to conceive a more com* 
plete 'a$$ign(nent of the debt than that which here took 
place. The moment Bendrkk^s order to pay Abdul Kader 
was shewn to the Secretary the monej (to use ths expres.* 
sion employed by Lord Thurlow in ) eates y. Groves (i)) 
was fixed. Mr. Withers in arguing the appeal very properly 
confined himself to the question of notice, and upon that 
point there oaf], we think, be no doubt but that the notice 
given to the Secretary was sufficient. It is true there is % 
Treasurer, by virtue of sect, sj of the Ordinance, who has, 
so to speak, the key of the money box, but the notice was 
properly given to the Secretary. Fide sect. 44 of the Ordi- 
nance, which distinctly recognises the Secretary as the 
proper ofilicer to receive noHces, by enacting that all process 
in actions against the Municipality shall be served on him* 

We do not know whether Abdul Kader is still unpaid by 
the Municipality. If not, all that can be said is that either 
lie or his legal adviser has b^en unnecessarily supine. 

Plaintiff's rule was rightly discharged by the District 
Judgei and plaintiff must pay Abdul Kader* s costs of the 
rule, ^irakooji wilt pay his ow,u costs of the rule « he need 
not have appeared* 



Affi/rmed* 



Proctor for the plafntiff, W. H. Dias. 

Proctor for Abdul Kader, W, E. de Voa. 
Proctor for Wirakoon, A, jf. f^eeresooriya 

(1) I Yes. Jan. aSi* 



318 
2nd amd jtk August, iSSf. 
Present — Dias, J. 
D C. Ins.^ Tn re A. C. Chambbrluu 

886. y Ex parte T. C. A vdbrsoh^ and J. W. Holt. 

Intoheruy — Mortgage cr ditor, who has realised seeurii^r 
proving for balance debt after one dividend has been paid — 
Right to payment ofjasi divid nd out of f>nds in Assignee's 
hands before payment of second dimdend to other creditors^-' 
Ordinance 7 of iS^5, sections loS, log ^District Court 
rescinding its own order allowing proof of claim, 

C. was declared insolvent on 5tb September 1879. On 26th Novem* 
ber A. and H., niortj^ajirees of a co&e estate belonging to the insolvent, 
commenced an action for realizing their secarityu Thev sold the estate 
under a mortea^ee's decree and parchased it themseWes for Its. lo. 
Meanwhile a dividend had been declared and paid to the proved creditors* 
On 21st April 1882 A. and H. were alh>wed to prove a daim of 
Rs. 35,344.51 against the insolvent estate, being balance dae on their 
mortgai^e, deductint^r certain payments already received by- them oat of 
the estate. On nth September A. and H* moved that oat of the 
monies in the Assignee's hands they might be paid (before any payment 
on acwunt of second dividend) an amount equal to what they would 
have received as first dividend on the debt they had now proved had 
ttey been proved ci editors at that date. The Court below refused this 
motion, and also refused to altow the mortgagees to prove any bal&nce 
sum due on their mortgage bond, against the insolvent estate. 

Held, that the District Court could not set aside its own order pre« 
viously permitting the proof of the mortgragees' claim. 

He/dalsOy that by seetion 109 of the Insolvency Ordinance the act of 
proving a debt which is the subject of a suit is a relinquishment of 
that suit, and that appellants were rightly allowed to prove .for their 
balance debt. 

Held also, that in equity a creditor, wiio proves after a dividend has 
been made, is entitled to be put on the same footing as the creditors 
who have already recrived the previous dividends, [provided hie does not 
disturb any dividend already paid]. 

JSa parte Stiles (i) and Re PPheeler (3) followed. 

Archibald Charles Ohamberliw was adjudicated iasoWent* 
on his own petition, on 5th September j879> He estimated 
his liabilities at Rs. 181,565.45 and his assets at Rs. i8r>437>^ 
the latter consistiog of Annfield Estate and some debts due 
to the Insolvent, On ip^h September 1879, T. C- Anderson 
and y- W. Holtt professing themselves to be mortgagees of 
Annfield Estate, moved for and obtained the appointment of 
T. 0- Anderson as Provisional Assignee, with power to take 

(i) I Atk,y 108. I (3) I Sch. & Left, 242. 



319 

possession of the Estate and all other assets of the Insolvent. 
On ^6th NoTembeff Anderson and Holt commenced a suit 
No. 84>343 for realising their mortgage* the Insolvent and 
his Assignee Ambrose being defendants. 7*. 0. Anderson 
had previously been removed at his own request from being 
Provisionftl Assignee* Judgment was entered for the plain- 
tiffs by consent of the Insolvent and his Assignee. The 
Assignee having sold some coffee found on Annfield Estate, 
deposited the proceeds in Court, and the sum of Rs 2866.94. 
was on A6th May drawn by Anderson and Holt as rnort** 
gagees of the orops. 

On 21st April 1882, Anderson and Holt proved a claim of 
Rs. 25,244.51. They filed an affidavit .of F. 0. Anderson, 
setting out that they were creditors of the Insolvent m the 
sum of Rs. 25,000 and interest secured by a secondary 
mortgage of Annfield Estate ; that on judgment obtained 
on their mortgage tbe Estate was sold by Fiscal and pur.* 
chased by the mortgagees for Rs* io» some coffee being 
bought by them for Rs. 445$ that there was a balance sum 
due of Rs. 28,11 1.45, from which the sum of Rs. 2,866.9^ 
already drawn was to be deducted ^ and that they had no 
other security for the balance due. They moved on i ith 
September 18S1 that; out of the monies in the Assignee's 
hands, ihey might be paid as first dividend the sum of 
Rs. 274.67 before any payment was made to other creditors 
on account of a second dividend, as they had not proved at 
the date of the first dividend. 

On this motion, which was opposed by certain proved 
creditors, the District J udge {A, 0. Laivrie) made the fol- 
lowing order: 

** The first question is whether Messrs. Anderson and Holt 
can ptove ai all. The ic9th section of the Ordinance pro- 
vides that *' no creditor who has brought any aciion against 
any insolvent in respect of a demand prior to the filing of a 
. petition for sequestration, or which might have been proved 
as a debt under the insolvency, shall prove a debt under 
such insolvency, or have any claim entered upon the pro« 
cesdings, without relinquishing such action." I hold that 
this clause excludes Messrs. Anderson and Holts claim from 
being received under the Ordinance. They had the choice, 
either of proving their claim, of allowing the Assignee to 
realize the Estate, and of ranking as preferential creditors on 
the price obtained for it| or of ignoring the insolvency proceeds 
logs altogether, and by raising action on their mortgage and 



^20 

r^alixiogr ^t a time of their own choosing thd mortgaged 
£stace and (as they did) of purchasing it of themselvos at 
a nofDtnal price of Re. i. They chose the lattes' course^ 
which doabtless was the one which hest suited the circam^ 
atances in which they were placed^ They were justified in 
what they did, bat having chosen this course they eannot^ 
in oiy opinion, now claim to be ranked on the proceeds of 
lands and property mortgaged to them^ for the apparent 
balance of the secured debt (which, be it remarked, is not the 
real balance | for the Estate was worth more than a rupee). 

" The clause of the Ordinance which I have quoted 
seems to me unambiguous : no creditor shall prove a debt» 
or have any claim entered upon the insolvency proceedings^ 
without relinquishiog any action against an insolvent for a 
debt proves ble under the insolvency. Messrs. Anderson and 
Holt's debt was one proveable under the insolvency : that» 
of course, is admitted, for they now seek to prove it. They 
raised an action for its recovery; they did not relinquish 
that action— the Ordinance says distinctly that they cannot 
prove. 

" Had I been of a difiFerent opinion, if I had held that 
thei^ claim could now be entered on the proceedings, I 
should have held that they were entitled to the same rate of 
dividend as the other proved creditors. 

*' A creditor who comes in late, after a dividend has been 
declared and paid, cannot disturb that declaratioa and pay^ 
ment ; but if there remain unallotted in the Assignee*^ 
hands a sufficient sum to give him an equal dividend with 
the other creditors, I think he is entitled to get it. The 
principle which underlies all insolvency proceedings is, to 
secure an equal distribution to all creditors of an estate in- 
sufficient to meet the claims of all in full. And bad Messrs. 
Anderson Siud Holt here been entitled to claim at a I, I 
should have held that they were entitled to the same num- 
ber of cents for each proved rupee as any of the other credit 
tors. I refect the claim of Messrs. Anderson and Holt ; I 
refuse to allow them to rank as creditors of this insolvent 
estate, or 60 receive dividends therefrom* The Assignee i^ 
directed to prepare a new dividend sheet, omitting their 
claim, and I further order the Assignee within one week to 
bring into Court the sum of Rs. 252 deducted sind retained 
by him as Commission without the authority of Court.** 

Anderson and Holt appealed* 



321 

Layard, for the appellants,— The District Judge on%ist 
April J 882 allowed the appellants to prove their ciaim of 
Us, 25,244.51* and he could not in January 1883 cancel 
that order and refuse to recognise the appellants' claim. 

If Anderson and HoU be allowed now to prove for the 
balance due under their mortgage^ they are entitled to a 
dividend equal to what they would have received had their 
claim been proved when the first dividend was declared 5 
and if there be sufBcient funds, they are entitled to be fireft 
paid such previous dividend, and the balance is to be divided 
among all the creditors, including those who have last 
proved, i Griff. & Holm., Ed. 1869, p 730. Ex parte 
Stiles (1). £e Wheeler (2), When they have realised their 
security, the mortgagees may prove for the balance left due* 
and are entitled to dividend on such balance, provided they 
do not disturb any dividend already made, i Griff. & 
Holm., 631, 648. Ex parte Siiles, and Be IP heeler were 
decided under the Act 6 Geo. 4 c. 16, which was repealed 
by Act 12 & 13 Vict. c« 106. Section 108 of our Ordi- 
nance is almost verbatim taken from section f 88 of the Act 
of 12 & 13 Vict,» which had adopted similarly the 109th 
section of the Act of Geo* 4. 

Cur. adv, vult» 

(7fch August). DiAS, J.— In this case Messrs. Anderson 
and Holt, who are the appellants, were mortgage creditors of 
the insolvent* On this mortgage they obtained a decree, 
and caused the mortgaged property to be sold in execution, 
and themselves became the purchasers for the nominal sum 
of Re. I. For the balance of their judgment, to wit 
Bs. 25,244.51, they proved in the insolvency proceedings* 
Subsequently, on the nth of September 1882, the appel- 
lants' Proctor made the following motion : ** Messrs. Ander- 
son and Holt not having proved their debt before the first 
dividend, Mr. Thomas moves that they may be paid out of 
the Rs, 2,100 in the hands of the Assignee the dividend 
they have failed to receive^ amounting to a sum of Rs. 274.67, 
before any part of the said Rs. 2,100 be applied to the 
payment of the second dividend." This motion was dis« 
cussed on the 22nd of January 1883, and the learned jodga 
refused the motion on the ground that the appellants cannot 
be treated as creditors of the insolvent estate, as they had 

(i) I Atk., ao8. I (2)' I Seh. & Lef., 242. 



922 

T10 n'glit to -prove as they 4id without previously relinqutsh- 
iDg the action which they brought on their mortgage bond* 
It roust be observed that this order deals with a matter not 
brought before the Court by the appellants' motion of the 
iith September 1M2. They proved their debt in the 
f)revious April. That order has Clever been set aside, and 
the order now appealed from has the effect of setting it 
«aside ahogether. Independently of the power of the District 
Court to set aside its own €nal order, the District Judge 
proceeded to give his opinion on a matter which was not 
before him. On this ground alone that part of the order 
must be set aside 5 but f think the District Judge's order is 
substantially bad. 

The District Judge relies on the lopth section of Ordi- 
liaqce^of 1853. That section onacts that ^'no crtjditor 
who has brought any action against any insolvent in 
respect of a demand prior to the filing of a petition for 
sequestration^ or which might have been proved as a 
4ebt under the insolvency! shall prove a debt under such 
insolvency^ or have any claim entered upon the proceediags^ 
without relinquishing such action 5** and the clause goes 
on further to enact that the act of proving a debt under a 
petition for sequestration shall be deemed an election by the 
creditor to take the benefit of the petition for sequestration ; 
er, ia other words, the act of proving a debt which is the 
subject of a suit is • relinquidunent of that suit This 
clause seems to me to cover the case now in hand* The 
appellants were holders of a decree for a large sqoi of 
money. They realised their security, but there ia still a 
considerable balance due to them* As regards this balance 
they must be taken to have relioquisbed tbeir auiti and 
placed themselves in the position of general creditors of the 
imaolvent estate and as such they are entitled to prove as 
they did for the balance still due to them* Ex parU U^o^lUy 
(l)« I am therefore of opinioo that their proof of the aiat 
April 1882 should stand. 

I now come to the question raised by the the appellants* 
notion, which isi that they are entitled to receive a previous 
dividend oat of the monies ia the hands oi the Assignee 
before it is applied towards the payment of the second divi« 
dead. In respeot of thisprevions dividend they claim a anas 
of Rs. 274.64, This amount may be rtght> but it will have 

(t) I Rose, 394; 3 y. * &, %s^ 



92» 

to be verified by the District Ooart before it b paid ovep. 
I shall only decide the point, whether or not they are en- 
titled to the ptyoieat which they ekicn. Oar ImolverUsi 
Ordinance is founded on the English Act of 184$^ and that 
Act, with regard to the qaestiofi ttow in hand, {s foanded 
on a previous Act, 49; Geo. iii* c. iftx f and dodef these 
acts it was held that in equity a creditor who proves after a 
df vidend has been mide is eatitledi to be put on the sam^ 
footiiig as the creditors who have akeadj reoeived the pre- 
vious dividends. Ex parte Stites- (t) ^ Be Wheeler (2). I 
am therefore of opinion that ont of the monies bow in the 
hands of the Assignee the appellants most in the ilrst 
instance be paid a sum e<)oaI to the previous dii^idend which^ 
they failed to reoeive, and as to the balanoo thcjr irtU bo 
entitled to a share of the second dividend with the redt of 
the general creditors* 

The order appealed fro» is therefore set aside, aikddie 
appellants are declared entitled to receive from tlie fund*- 
now in the hands of the Assignee a sum eqoal to- their share 
of the previona dividend (the amount of wbidi is to he- 
ascertained by the Conrt]^ and to a farther dividend ubA ofi 
the balance* The ooais in both Ooorts will ba paid by the 
opposing creditors* 

Otrder set oMe* 

Proctor for the Appellants, K Dumaresf T%amas, 

Proctor lor the Insiolventy £. Seven. 

Proctors for the opposing creditors, y. B. Siehel; W. Goane^ 

fiUeke. 
Proctors for otdier proved cnediioiv, A* Fan Twest ; F. Vam 

JLangenberg* 



I 



(i) I Atk^ io8. |, (3) I Stih. & IcL, z^Zr 



324 

22nd yune and 2Sth August, 1883. 
Present— BuBNSiDB, C. J. and Olabbkcb, J. 



D. C. ^ F. G. 

85,981. J D, J. 



D. C. 1 F. G. Morgan 
Colombo, > V. 

WijBYEGOONBTiLLBKE and another. 



Mortgagc^Purchase by mortgageet under third party^s writ, 
of part of mortgaged property ^'Merger -^Extinction of debt. 

Plaintiff, who held a mortgage over eleven of defendant's lands to 
secure a del>t of Bs. 4.000, obtained, on 23rd February 1882, a mort. 
gagee^s decree, and levied a sum of Rs. 596 by sale of part of the 
mortgaged property. A tlnrd party, having previously obtamed a 
money judgment against defendant, seized and sold another part of 
the property mortgaged, expressly subject to plaintiff's mortgage, and 
plaintiff purchased for Rs. 100. The greater part of the mortgaged 
property still remained undiscussed. 

Hddf that defendant's motion, to have satisfaction of plaintiff's mort* 
gage judgment entered up, bad been rightly refused under these cir- 
cumstances. 

The facts of this case are disclosed in the jadgments in 
appeal, and in the reasons for the order of the Court belovr as 
shown in the note to the jadgment of the Ghibp Justici« 
The judgment of the third party* under which plaintiff 
purchased, was a money judgment lor Bs. 492.47!, dated 
20th February 1882, obtained in D9 C* Colombo 86,178 on 
promissory notes. 

Layardi for the defendant, appellant— The plaintiff, by 
purchasing subject to his own mortgage, must be taken to 
have extinguished his own debt He has succeeded to the 
place of his debtor, and Vbet (i), treating of the modes in 
which a mortgage debt is extinguished, includes such suc« 
cession in that category. Si debitum principale solutione ... 

^ vil confusione dum creditor debitori succedit^ aUove 

simili modo, quo obligationes aut ipso jure aut ope exceptions 

dissoUn solentt sublatum sit The debtor has aa 

equitable right (ope exceptionis) to have the debt declared 
satisfied. 

The purchaser at the sale knew (for the mortgage was 
notified in the Conditions of Sale) that, in order to free the 
land which ho was buying, he would have to pay the mort- 
gagee Rs. 4»ooo. The plaintiff^ though the mortgagee, can 
be in no better position than any stranger who purchased 

(i) Ad Fond, f zz.6. a. 



S25 

at the sale. The plaintiff ta fact declared by his acts that 
he considered the land worth the Rs. loo over and above 
the encumbrance on it* 

Equity is strongly in the defendants' favour. Here was a 
mortgage of eleven parcels of land to secure the large 
amount of Rs. 41OOO. The phintifiF could have each parcel 
sold separately, and could scare off intending purchasers (as 
he seems to have done here : for he purchased 13 acres of 
land for Rs. 100) by causing the Fiscal to give notice of 
his mortgage. In the present rastancer the judgment on 
which the land was sold was for Rs. 461.35, and the levy 
has brought only Rs* 100^ Each remaining parcel of 
mortgaged property could be sold seriatim till the balance 
was realised. The mortgagee becomes the purchaser of the 
mortgaged lands at one-tenth their market value, and yet 
the mortgage debt remains untouched. This entails utter 
rnin to the mortgagor. In view of these circumstances £ 
would ask the Court to reconsider the judgment in C- R. 
Ratnapura 4*192 (i) which, in a parallel case, decided thafe 
the purchase by the mortgagee did not extinguish the debt. 

Domhorstt for the plaintiff, respondent — Assuming the 
law to be as contended^ the defendant is still not entitled 
to have satisfaction of the entire debt entered up, because 
this particular land did not carry the entire encumbrance of 
Rs. 4,000, which was leviable on ten. other parcels of land. 

ybety in the passage cited, lavs down the universally 
recognised proposition, that upon the extinction of the 
debt the mortgage goes with it. The ** succession*' he 
mentions is clearly succession by inheritance : that is to say, 
where the creditor becomes the heir of the debtor and takes 
upon himself the rights and liabilities of the deceased* See 
Berwick's Translation of the passage (2)« 

Cur»> adv. vulL 

(aSth August). B0RHSIDB, 0. J. — On the 13th of De- 
cember 188 1 the plaintiff filed his libel against the defen. 
dants» alleging that the first defendant by his bond dated 
the 20th May 1879 became bound to the plaintiff in the 
sum of Bs. 4,000 with interest ; that as secnrity he mort« 
gaged to the plaintiff eleven distinct lands, which were 
described in the libel i and that the second defendant bound 



(1) 3 S. C. C, 106. I Cs) Page 444. 



326 

himself as security for the pajcneot of the amount ; that 
the priDcipalsDin with iaterest was still due : add he prajed 
that it be decreed that the defendants jointly and severally 
pay the suai 9o doe with ioterest^ and that the lands so 
specially mortgaged be Iwnnd and executable for the mort^ 
gage de^. Judgment on the a3rd February 1882^ in default 
of appearance» passed against the defendants^ and it wa» 
decided that the plaintiff recover against the defendants^, 
jointly and severally, the sum of fis< 4,000, with interest at 
12 per cent. , with costs of suit, and that the eleven lands> 
mortgaged be and were thereby declared executable for the 
decree upon the footing of the mortgage. 

Upon this judgment and decree execution issued and a 
portion of the lands mortgi^fed was seiaed and sold, the 
proceeds whereof, amounting to Rs. S9^7^» ^^^^ applied 
towards the plaintiff's judgment. 

Another judgment was recovered against the first defea* 
dant (but whether before or »fter the platntifiE^s j,udgment 
does not appear, nor is it material} for the sum of 
B.S. 49243^, upon whkh execution issued for that amount 
Under this writ the Fiscal seized one of the lands specially^ 
mortgaged, and decreed bound and executable for the 
plaintiff's judgment, and it was on the 2 jth May put op* 
for sale upour amongst others^ the following conditions : 
Notified mortgage in favor of Mr. F, G. Morgan,. 

plaintiff in case No. 8 j,j^ i D. C. Colombo^ bond being 

dated 20th May 1879,. lor Rs. 4,00a and interest and 
*' costs of suit." 

The plaintiff at such sale became the purchaser for the 
sum of Rs. 100. 

Upon an affidavit disdosing the abbve facts a> motion was 
made on the 28th February for an order directing the pecali 
of the writ against property issned in this action at the 
plaintiff's instance on the 26th February ^883, and a decb- 
ration that the judgment debt by way of principal, interest 
and costs recovered by the plaintiff against the defendant in 
this action had been fully satisfied and discharged. 

On the argument of this motion on the 5tk March 1883,^ it 
was disallowed with costs, but the learned District Judge 
gave no reasons whatever for his order. The defendants 
thereupon appealedr and upon the argument Counsel direct- 
ed their attention solely to the point whether the purchase 
by the pl a i n t i ff of a portion of the mortgaged land operated 
as an extingiushment of the entire judgment debt^ so as to^ 



4* 



327 

entitle the defendants to have a declaration that the plains 
tifTs jadgment and execution against them bad been satis- 
fied. 

Before deciding that poiot, which is a new one and one 
of great importance, bearing upon the law of mortgage in 
this Colony, i thought it right that we should have before 
us the reasons and grounds upon which the District Judge 
refused to make the order. The case having been referred 
back to the District Court with that view, it has been 
returned to us, and having now perused the reasons* record- 
ed by the District Judge for refusing to make the order, 
I think he was right and that we cannot interfere. 

Before the question raised before us is ripe for decision 
more facts than those disclosed in the affidavit upon which 
the motion in the Court below was refused must appear^ 
The plaintiff's judgment included in it a persoual liability 
from the defendants beyond the mere mortgage debt for 
which the lands were specially liable 5 and although it may 
well be that the lands were discharged from the mortgage 
when the mortgagee became the owner, yet before they 
could claim to have the jadgment and execution declared 
satisfied, they must show that their peraonal liability, not 

* These reasons were contaioed in the District Judge's letter to the 
Sttpreme Court, dated 9th July 1SS3, and were as lollows : 

*' I have not any very dbtinct recollection of the reasons for which 
the motion of 5th March last was disallowed, but as it was one to 
enter up satisfaction of judgment and was opposed, I presume that the 
defendant had failed to adduce evidence sufficient to convince me that 
the judgment had been satis^fied. This supposition is confirmed by the 
contents ot the Petition of appeal : for it admits that the judgment was 
for Rs. 4tOOO, interest and costs ; and the only satisfaction alleged is 
the proceeds of a levy in execution realising Rs. 596.70 besides the 
argumentative satisfaction supposed to depend on the circumstances^ 
that on mnolker writ against the defendant at the instance of another 
creditor the present plaintiff bad purchased for Rs. 100 lands which were 
sold to him subject to a mortgage over them in his (the plaintiff's) own 
favour for the very bond debt for which he holds the present judgment. 
The lands were up to the moment of his purchase of course only worth 
their gross present market value mimts the amount of the plaintiff's 
incumbrance: and I presume that the lands ceased to be affected by 
the mortgage when the mortgagee became owner, but that though the 
fnoriga§:e and the liability of the lands was thus wiped out, the debt 
and the personal liability of the debtor to the creditor remain unaffect* 
ed, at all events to the extent to which the present gross value of the 
lands, minus the price paid to the Fbcal for them, may happen to be 
less than the amount due upon the mortgage. But what that * results 
ing value may be, there appears to have been no evidence offered 
either in the affidavit filed or otherwise: and neither does there appear 
to have been evidence of the amount due for costs, not embraced in the 
mginal mortgage. 



828. 

onlf in respect of the mortgage debt but on the entire 
judgment debt, had been extinguished. 

The appeal must be dismissed with costs. 

Clabekcb, J — Plaintiff has a judgment for Rs. 4,000, 
interest and costs against the two defendants, who are 
principal and surety. This judgment is founded on an 
instrument by which the first defendant as principal became 
bound to pay the Rs. 4,000 and interest, and mortgaged by 
way of security eleven various pieces of land and undivided 
shares of land. The second defendant bound himself as 
surety. 

Plaintiff got his judgment, with the usual mortgagee's 
decree, on the 23rd February 1882, and it would appear that 
thereafter plaintiff seized and sold soqae of the mortgaged 
property, the proceeds of which, amounting to Rs. 596.70, 
were applied in reduction of plaintiff*s judgment debt« 

It would further appear that after this another creditor 
of the 1st defendant's, having a judgment against ist defen- 
dant, purported to seize another item of the property which 
was comprised under plaintiff's mortgage, when the present 
plaintiff beame the purchaser for Rs« 100. 

On affidavit of these facts the defendant moved the Dis* 
trict Court to enter up satisfaction of present plaintiff's 
judgment ; plaintiff opposed the motion, and defendants 
appeal against a dismissal of the motion with costs. 

It appears to me that we are not in a position to interfere 
with the order appealed against. It is not as though plain* 
tiff being mortgagee of a single item of land had simply 
bought the mortgagor's interest when sold under some other 
creditors' writ. The defendant's contention would then, I 
presume, have been, that plaintiff, having presumably 
acquired the mortgagor's remaining interest at the price of 
the marginal value over and above the mortgage debt, it 
would be inequitable were he allowed to recover the amount 
of the mortgafife-debt and still retain the land. But in the 
present instance plaintiff has so bought the mortgagor's 
interest in a portion only of the mortgaged property still 
remaining unsold. Defendants did not ask for any inquirys 
but simply for a declaration of entire satisfaction* To that, 
upon the materials disclosed, they could not in my opiaioa 
be entitled. I therefore think that this appeal should be 



829 

dismissed with costs, leaviog it open to defendaiits tQ 
renew their applicatioD in some other form. 

Appeal dismissed* 

Proctor for the plaintiff, J. W. Vanderstraaten. 
Proctor for tlie defendants, IP. P. Ranesinghe. 




jih and i2ih Oc^er, 1883. 

Present*— Clare NCB) J* 
V. 8. T. Bahbk Chbtty 

V. 

A. Bastian Silva and another 
Ex parte The Queen's Advocats. 

Preference and concurrence-^Fund in Court ^^ Order of pay* 
ment^ Property passing to payee ^ Fund **Jixed" 

Claims of preference or concurrence in the proceeds of a levy can be 
lirougbt forward so long as the money remains in Court, and no 
longer. 

Plaintiff levied a sum of money on a mortgagee's decree founded on 
a special mortgage of his defendant's property, and on i itb October 
188a obtained an order of payment in his favour for the amount of the 
levy. The Government Agent refused to pay the proceeds to plaintiff, 
on the gromnd that the Crown had a preferent claim to them in virtue 
of a debt due by defendant to the Crown. On 19th March 1883, and 
subsequently, the Gtueen's Advocate moved for, and on 35th J uly ob- 
tained, an order for the payment of the money. 

Held, that the Queen's Advocate's claim to preference had been 
wrongly entertained, as the money must be regarded as baVtng got 
home to the plaintiff at the date of the order of payment to him, and 
as bdng no longer in Court. 

In this case plaintiff obtained by default a simple money 
judgment against ths second defendant on 5th June 1883* 
and against the first defendant on 22nd June 1882, for the 
sum of Rs. 500 and interest^ due upon a mortgage bond 
whereby the defendants had bound themselves jointly and 
severally. The latter judgment contained a declaration that 
the property specially mortgaged was specially bound and 
executable to satisfy the judgment. Upon writ of execution 
issued the Fiscal levied a sum of Bs. 332.64, which he 
deposited in the Kachcheri on 7th and 28th September 
1882. On 1 2th October, the plaintiff moved for and oba 
tained an order of payment for the Rs. 332.64, in part 
satisfaction of the judgment. On 19th March 1883) the 



^a.^*« Aa^wate wared for an lardef of pjywcot for the 
R». 33a 64 which. It was alleged, had been sei^d w the 
hands of the Government Agent nnder the Crown s writ m 
D. O.Ooiombo 183*^ After several postponements, on aoth 
June ]883. the Queen's Advocj^te renewed his motion, 
filing a Petition of Intervention, which averred that the 
Crown had obtained judR^^^^ ®° *9^^ ^^^ ^^^* against 
the defendants for Bs. 37^-^^ '^ ^^'^ ^^ '^3*, and pray- 
«d to have the sum in depcssit paid oat to him. The plain- 
tiff having been heard ^inst the motion, the Court after 
cof.sidt-ratioo ruled <on the assuraptilm that the money was 
Still in deposit in the Kaclieberi) that the Crowa In virtue 
of its prior general legal hypothec over the propertv of its 
debtors, was entitled to preference ov^r the amount levied, 
even if levied upon property specially mortgaged to the 
plainiiffj andjiUowed the (Jueen's Advocate to draw the 
money in case it was still unpaid to the plaintiff. The 
<aueen's Advocate took cut an order of payment on a 5th 
July. 

The plaintiff appealed. 

Wither^ for t^ie appellant* 

FmdimmdM* D.Ct A.* for liie Ctueen'a Advocate, respoo^ 
denu 

Cmf' mdn* vult* 

(^ath Octobef). Clarbwob, J.— It is agreed that the 

snm of money, aboi^t which plaintiff and the Crown are 

disputbf , is the proceeds of plaintiff's levy under his naort* 

gage decree founded on d« fend«mt Beutian's mortgage. The 

Crown claims preference ^aoad the proceeds of this levy, 

tclaiming a legal hypothec in virtue of a debt due by Bastian 

to the Crown, for which tbie Crown got judgment on the 

:»i6Lh May 18S*. Claims of preference or concurrence in 

the proceeds of a levy can be broii,ght forward so \on% as 

the money remains in Court and no longer. Now this 

n^oney came into Coutt in September 1882, and on the 

ji;^h October the then Acting District Judge* on plaintiff's 

4ipplication» m.ad^ an ^rder for paym^eut in plaintiff's favoijir. 

It i3 agreed by Counsel at the bar that the money never h||s 

ip fact been banded over to plaintiff, and that the ceasop 

Hiihy it has not is that the Government 4gent^ on plaintiff's 

^ypply,ipg ^ the Kaf hcheri for the monejf,, ref ii^sc^d ^o boxtonr 

^ Qrcl^f of ^. ]i)iij»tript Cqnrt, on the grctvnd ti^l tlie 



881 

Ctown Ind a daino agtiosl the eteeatioa 4bbtot Bttstm^ 
The first reeord of any ste^s taken by the Crown in this 
c:ase occurs wider date the lytb liarch i&S^^ when the 
Queen's Advocate is recorded as having nsade an applicaiioo 
for the money. Nothing farther ssems then to haite b6ea 
done until the 51st May*, when that application was renewed. 
The matter was ultioiately discussed on the a.7th June^ 
after five postponements* with the result that the Drscrict 
Judge made the order against which plaintift appeals. 

Thb is not a seiaore by the Cvown ia Execution, but • 
simple claim of preference, and the claim in my optniott 
faiis^ because the money ia my opinion must be considered 
as having got home oa the data of the order of payment ia 
favour of plaintiff. After that date I regard the money as- 
no loager in Court, although the Government Agent (as it 
seems to me wrongfully)' refused to make the actual catl^. 
payment* 

Disposing^ of the nsatter upon this ground, it is nnneceS*^ 
sary for me to express any opinion on the question, whether 
in fact the Crown has, by virtue of the debt due to th6 
Crown by Bastion^ a legal hypothec ranking over plaintlfPs 
mortgage* On that question, and on the further questioti' 
involved, viz, when Bastions debt to the Crown is to be* 
considered as having accrued due, I express no opinion* 

Sei oM^i 

Proctor for the platatiff, P; Muiiucwkatu, 

Proctors for the Queen's Advocate* Loos ^ VanOu^lenburgL 



26th October and 6^ November, 1885. 
• Fresent-^CLXBBNCE and Dias,.JJ« 
D* C. ^ The Qitbkh's Adtocatb 

^° ^*^ k Abayakun Bajakaruna Wahala Mudianaelage 
85^1 io* ) LoK.17 BiiHOA and others. 

Trincvpal and Surehf'^Oontinuing guaranteBf revocation q/,. 
hy death of guarantor -^Lv' bitty of guarantor's heirs'^ 
Negligence of principal obligor's employer. 

Tkto first tfefenilaat atf ptiodpttl, aad the tbMS eth^ Men^ats as 
hU suittics, WffS0 the obHgMS tfpoli a boofld caadit l on<d for the 4«fr 



333 

accoDnting by first defendant to the Crown for all moneys reoenred by 
him in the performance of his office, l^he Crown now sued the first 
defendant and the heirs of the sureties to recover an amount unaccount* 
ed for, being sams received by the first defendant for the four years 
1878-81. 

Answer i 1st, that no debt was due by the principal. The Court 
below found there was. 

2nd, that the sureties had* died before the defaults relied upon had 
been committed by the prmoipal. 

Held bad for not averring notice of such death to the obligee ;. also 
not established by pr( of of such notice. 

3rd, that the gross negligence of the obligee^ in continuing for four 
years the principal's employment, when be bad failed to account for the 
receipts of the first year, relieved the sureties from liability. 

It appearing that the sum unaccounted for, for the first year, was 
Rs. 3.66, 

Heldf that the defence was not sustained^ 

This was an action brought by the Qubbh's Adtocatb 
to recover from the first defendant, as principal debtor, and 
the second, third and fourth defendants, as his sureties, the 
sum of Bs. 2343.39 as due upon a penal bond, dated 29th 
June 1874, for Rs. 5,940> given by the defendants (bind, 
ing their heirs, executors, administrators and assigns) in 
favour of Her Ma],esty, in order to secure the due perfor. 
mance by the first defendant of hfs duties as Korala of 
Maturatta. The Ubel averred that the first defendant had, 
in pursuance of his said duties,, collected the commutation 
money for the Government share of the paddy crops of 
certain fields for the four years i878''i88i, and had failed 
to pay or account for the sum of Rs. 2,343.39. A decree 
was prayed for declaring the property mortgaged by the 
bond specially bound and executable for the judgment. 
Judgment was entered by default against the first defendant 
and his wife the fourth defendant. The second and third 
defendants were dead at the time of action brought, and 
their heirs were added as parties to the record in their room. 
These heirs filed an Answer, in which they denied the 
existence of the debt by first defendant, and pleaded that, 
the sureties having died before the accrual of the debt, they 
were not liable to pay it ; and that the obligee (the Crown) 
had been guilty of gross negligence in not calling the first 
defendant to account, and the sureties were thereby absolv* 
ed from liability. 

The Court below {A, C Lawrie, Judge) found that 
the debt was due by first defendant 3 that one of the 
sureties had died in 1876, before any debt existed, and the 
other in J878, when the debt was only Rs. 3-65, and no 
breach of the obligatioD had been committed ; that this 



888 

amonnt was 90 small that there had been no negligenoe on 
the part of the obligee in not calling for an account ; that in 
1879 ^^ first defendant owed Rs, 581.62, and shoald ^oer. 
tainly have been called upon to accoant for that sum earljr in 
iSSo, which was not done 1 that, emboldened by impunity, 
the first defendant had in 1880 kept back Rs. 1,6^6 a^i, 
and was only suspended from office in 1881 after he had 
collected Rs. a 1.86^ for that year. The Court held that 
" the negligence was not so great as to absolve the sureties 
if they had been alive and to render inoperative the mortgage 
bond/' Judgment was accordingly given wiih costs against 
the first and fourth defendants personally, and agaiust the 
substituted defendants (representatives of the deceased sur&* 
ties) to the extent of making them parties to the decree 
declaring the mortgaged property (some of which the Court 
assumed to belong to the sureties) specially executable for 
the debt. No costs were payable to or by the substituted 
defendants. 

The following authorities were referred to in the above 
judgment z-^fnsCit.^ 3. 20. d ; Dig,, 46. 1.4^.1; Smith's 
Mercantile Law, Chap, xi, section 3, 9th Ed- p. 474 ; Brad^ 
hury V. Morgan (1) ; Qffimi v. Davies (2) j Bell's Commen^ 
taries, Bk. iii> Pt. i. Chap. 3 i S i Marshall's Judgments^ 
P 53»- 

The first and third substituted defendants appealed. 

VanLangenherg, for the appellants — There is not suffict« 
ent proof (as the Court below seems to have felt) of the 
extent of first defendant's debt. The evidence is only that 
obtained by summing up certain indorsements made by the 
£rst defendant on the counterfoils of receipts granted by 
him. These entries may be admissions against first defen- 
dant bimselfr but are certaiuly insufficient as against the 
sureties, who are entitled to demand strict proof of their 
principal's indebtedness* Again» the sureties* death revoked 
the guarantee they had given of the first defendant's debt* 
Bradbury v* Mwgan (3), relied upon by the Court below 
to the contrary, has been questioned and its authority con^ 
siderably weakened in Harriss v. Fawcett (4), which was 

0) 31 L. J Ex. 463 ; I H. & C. 349. 

(a) 3« L. J- C. P. 3«9 ; " C. B. (N. S.) 748. 

(3) I H. & C. 349. 

(4) L R. 15 Eq. 311, 



tArmed io appeal (j). OmUikmri ▼. Clmeiu$mi (6) ii « 
later case, decided in 1879^ io the same effect. The Crotni'a 
codtioding to employ the first defeodant, after his ,dcfali& 
cations and without the eonsent of the sareties* dischargee 
the sureties from liahiKtj to make ^ood any loss arishig 
trom the dishone«ty of the first defendant daring the snbse* 
qoent service. PhUlips ▼. Foxall (7) ; Sanderson ▼. A^Mlk 
(8). A safety is released by the creditor giving the princi** 
pal time to pay, withoot the sorety's knowledge ; and it is 
only eqaitable, as pat by Sir Charles Marshall (9), thM 
** unnecessary delay on the part of the creditor, in cona^ 
pelling fulfilment by the principal, inasmuch as the oppor^ 
tunityof recovering against the principal may thereby h6 
lost, operates as a release of the surety and throws the ristt 
of ulttma^e failure io obtain satisfaction from the prioeipal 
on the negligent or indnlgent creditor.'^ 

Ferdinands, D- Q. A., for the plaintiff, respondent— The 
evidence of debt is sufficient to bind the sureties. An account 
delivered by a principal charging himself is evidence againsk 
his surety Lysaght v. Walker ( la). It is neither alleged 
nor provied that the obligee had nottee of the sureties* d«ath* 
As tQ negligence, the mere giving of time to a principal will 
not discharge the surety (i i)* and the surety is not discharg- 
ed by the delay of the creditor in suing. Eyre v. Everett 
(12); Trent Naiigition Co. v. Harley (13). Mere negli. 
gence, even if gross, on the part of a creditor, unaccompanied 
by positive acts of Concurrence in the defalcation of a debtor* 
will not discharge the surety, and is no ground of equitable 
defence. Madden v. M^Mullett (14)* And here the eoart 
below finds there was no negligence* 



FanLangenherg in reply. 



Cur. ttdu. vuU. 



(6th November). C&ABBtrca^ J«^-Tbis, «o far as OOQ* 
earns appellants, is an action upon a Goaraotee, By the 
obligation declared on^ which was made iit X874, tbd ist 
defendant Loku Banda* as principal* dnd three other obli* 



-«-i- 



(5) L. R. 8 Cb. App. 866. 
<6) L. R. 5 Q. B. D. 43. 
(7^ L. R. 7 Q. B. 666 



(8) L. R. 8 Ex. 73. 

(9) Judgments, p. 53*. 

(10) i BitgfrN. S. I. 



(11) Van der Linden, JnHU., Bk. t, sect, fo, 16 ; Hcmfi ThU&Sln; 

p 311. 

(13) 3 Rasa. 381. I (13) io Bast 34. [ (14) 4 ^ T-f ^' ^' ^^ 



885 

gorSf aa •oreties* purported to hypotlieeate certain landa. 
The eonditioQ of the obligation waa, that Loku Banda, wha 
had been appoioted as Acting Kerala, shoald whenever re^ 
quired daly account fpr ail moaeys coming to hia hands as 
XLorala. The libel averred that L^ku Banda received on 
account of the Crown certain paddy rents of the years 1878^ 
1875^ 1880 and 18B1, and tha:> he had failed to account for 
Ae moneys so received, and was thus indebted to the 
Crown in an amount of Rs. a, 343. 3 9, for which sum 
plaintiff asks for judgment against the obligors, and for the 
usual mortgagee's decree. The Fiscal having reported that 
two of the sureties, Kalu Banda and Punckirala, were dead, 
(he present appellants, their heirs, were by amendment sub^ 
Stiiiited as parties defendant in the room of KtUu Banda 
and Punchirala- So far as concerns appellants, the judg* 
ment of the District Court is a decree declaring the lands 
mortgaged by the obligation specially bound and executable 
for a debt of fia. a,343«39. 

It is a remarkable circumstance, that although the deed 
on which plaintiff founds purports to mortgage sixty four 
items of land^ it is completely silent as to* the title to and 
ownership of the property mortgaged. Four obligors, the 
principal obligor and three sureties, purport to mortgage 
these sixty four pieces of land. Whether they were all 
jointly entitled, and if so in what shares-— *or whether some 
of the lands belonged to the principal obligor and others to 
tliis or that surety— as to aU this the mortgage deed is com« 
pletely silent. It is to be supposed, since appellants have 
ooosidered it worth their while to appeal, that some of the 
mortgaged lands belonged to the obligors whom they repre- 
sent : if that be so. and if appellants succeed in establishing 
their defence to the action, an inquiry will be necessary to 
determine which are the lands to be excludtKi froui the ope^ 
fation of the mortgage decree. 

The defence set up by appellants in their answer is cocu 
tained in these pleas:— 

First, appellants deny that ** first plaintiff" (a clerical 
error, probably, for *' first defendant'*) is indebted to the 
Crown at alk On that issue the learned District Judge 
has found upon the evidence in favour of the Crown, and it 
has not been contended in appeal, that there is any reason 
for disturbing that finding. 

Secondly, appellants aver that Kalu Banda and Punchirala 
died before *' the allege deffjcatioas/' apd thereupon appeL 



386 

lants state, as a conclusion of law, that *' the Crown hat no 
claim Against these defendants, as representing the Estates 
of the said deceased/' It appears that Kalu Banda died ia 
August 1878, and Punchirala in 1876, and that the monejs 
for which the principal obligor has failed to account to the 
Crown are due— Rs. 3.66 in respect of the year 1878,. 
Rs. 581.62 in respect of 1879, ^s* 1,636.24^ in respect of 
1880, and Rs. 21.86J in respect of 1881, the year in which 
he was dismissed from office : so that the defaults in respect 
of which these appellants are now sued occurred after the 
death of the sureties whom they represent. The Guarantee 
sued on is a continuing Guarantee. It is not suggested that 
any notice was given to Loku Bandars employers of the 
death of the two sureties, Kalu Banda and Punchiraloy and 
without entering upon any question as to what might have 
been the case had such notice been given, I am decidedly of 
opinion that this hypothecation by way of Guarantee was 
not terminated by the Guarantors' death, of which no notice 
was given to the Employers. 

Thirdly, appellants have pleaded '* that the Crown has 
*^ been guilty of g^oss negligence in allowing the ist defen- 
*' daot to continue the collection of taxes for four consecu" 
** tive years, when the accounts of the ist year were not 
'' closed," and *' that by reason of such negligence the de« 
** fendants are relieved from the obligation of paying for any 
** alle^ed defalcations of the first defendant." This, it will 
be obserTed, is a very different kind of plea from the plea 
which was upheld in Fhillips v.. Foxcdl (i j)* Defendants 
say that they are absolved by the negligence of Ijoku Bandars 
employer in having continued Loku Banda in his employ^ 
ment for four consecutive years when the accounts of the 
first year were not closed. 1 he four years here referred to 
appear to be the years 1878, 1879, 1B80, i88i. During the 
year 1878 Loku Banda failed to account for the trifling sum 
of Rs 3.66. I certainly can see no ground on which the 
conduct of the Grown in continuing Loku Banda in office 
because he had not accounted for Bs. 3.66 can be consider* 
ed as material for the exoneration ot his sureties* In the 
year following, in 1879, ^^^ Banda failed to account for 
Rs. 581.62 and was still continued in office, which led ap 
to his default of nearly three times as much in 1880. We 
need not speculate as to whether appellants could have 
founded a successful contention on the continuance of Loku 

(15) L, R. 7 Q. B. 666. 



337 

JBanda in office aftet his defaalt o! 1879 wilhoat notice to 
the sureties* because appellants have not in their plea set up 
any such contention. Aye cannot go outside the language 
of the plfa. 

For these reasons it appears to me that, there being no 
defence pleaded which avails to exonerate appellants from 
the Ouaraniee» their shares in the hypothecated lands, what« 
ever they may be, ari^ rightly decreed to be bound and exe- 
cutable. 

As the Queen's Advocate on his side has not appealed 
upon the question of costs, ic simply remains for us to dis- 
Oiiss the appeal. 

DiAS, J., concurred. 

Appeal dismissed. 

Proctor for the plaintiff, f, B. SieheL 

Proctor for the substituted defendants, Edwin Seven. 



2Sih and ^ th November, 1883. 
Present — Bubnside, C. J. 



P. C. 1 F. 
Utticaloa, ? 
19,718. J V. 



P. C. \ F. W. O. MODDKR 

Batticaloa, ? v. 

MUTTUKUTTY. 



yudge, ijhterest of ^Prosecution at instance of the Court. 

Upon a charge of theft coming oa for trial against cIcFendant in the 
Fokce Court, the complainant was absent. The Magistrate dismissed 
the charge, but (considering the charge too serious to be dropped) direct- 
ed tt^e Police ofticer attached to the Court to present a fresh plaint in 
bis own name against the defendant. Upon this new plaint the Court 
tried and convicted the* defendant. 

The Supreme Court, upon appeal by the defendant, quashed the 
proceedings, holding tiiat the Magistrate, havi'ig identified himself 
with the prosecutor, had rendered himself incapable of dealing with 
the case as a judge. 

This was an appeal by the defendant against a conviction 
and sentence of the Police Court (P. TF. CcmoZ/y, Magis- 
trate). The facts sufficiently appear in the judgment of the 
Supreme Court* 

Vanlangenhe^g {Weinman with him) for the defendant* 
appellant. 

Cur, adv» vult. 



338 

(30th Novcrobcr). Burnsios, C, J. — In this case a 
complaint was at first laid in F. C. Case No. 19.701 bj 
the owner of a piece of cloth against the defendant^ charg- 
ing him with theft and with onlawfuUy receiving the cloth 
knowing it to be stolen. The case was fixed for hearini; on 
the a6th October. It was called on that day, and the de« 
fendant was present^ bat complainant was absent. The 
Police Magistrate then very properly recorded that a charge 
of that nature should not be allowed to drop ; and what he 
should have done was to have adjourned the hearing and to 
have issued process concipelling the complainant to appear 
and give evidence. In this way he would have been free to 
have dealt judicially with the case. Instead of doing this. 
he dismissed the case, and then directed the Police Sergeant 
of his Court to file a plaint in bis own name against the 
accused charging him with theft* The Sergeant of Police 
did as he was directed^ and the present plaint was lodged^ 
which was heard by the Magistrate himself, and upon which 
be convicted and sentenced the accused. I cannot support 
the conviction* The Magistrate by directing the proseca« 
tion identified himself with the prosecutor and has rendered 
himself incapable of dealing with the case as a Judge. He 
would have been placed in a very difficult and embarrassing 
position if it had turned out that the charge was false or 
frivolous or vexatious. The officer acting under his direc. 
tions would have fallen back on the instructions of his 
superior, and the Magistrate would have had the delicate 
task of deciding how far he himself was responsible for the 
penalties of a vexatious prosecution. On the other hand, 
the atcused would have had just reason to complain that 
his rights against the complainant were prejudiced by the 
part whidi the Magistrate had taken in directing him to 
prosecute* The Police Magistrate has evinced a very 
praiseworthy desire to prevent the very improper practice of 
compoanding o&noes without the permission of the Court, 
but 1 cannot too earnestly impress on Magistrates the 
absolute necessity of keeping the functions of judge and 
prosecutor distinct* Their proceedings as judges ' are open 
to the grossest objection when the essential difference 
between the two duties is not regarded. 

Proceedings quashed. 



839 

l^thand icth November and iitk December, 1885. 

Present— BuRNSiDE, C. J. 



P. 0. \ GoVfNPAI 

Haldommolla^ > v. 

- J Karpsn. 



Police Court- Practice^ PresentaHon 0/ plqint by com- 
plainant in person --Proctor, right of, to appear he/one plaint 
entertained -Ordinance i8 of iSjty section 2. 

A plaint in a Police Court mast br presented to the M«eistrate by 
the complainant in ^»e^son^ and not through a proctor, unlesr the 
Magistrate dispenses with the personal appearance of the complainant.. 

The plaint in this case charged an assault upon the com - 
plainant, and was presented lo the Police Magistrate by 
Mr. y. D* Bartholomeusz (a proctor practising in the Hal- 
dummulla Courts) acting as proctor (pr the complainant. 
The Magistrate {L O. Pyemont) indorsed th«^ ioilowing 
order upon the plaint :— ' 

This plaint is submitted by Mr. Proctor Barthotoneusz,. 1 decline ta 
accept the plaint, as l hold that a proctor cannot appear in a Police 
Court case until the plaint has either been accepted or r j^cted br the 
Court. Complainant should pre^nt the plaint.. 

The complataanc appealed. 

Wendt, for the appellant — 

The Magistrate does not record that the complainant wa^ 
not in Court and ready to be exanaiined if necessary^ as re* 
Quired by Ordinance 18 of 1871, sect, a } and the plaint dia« 
closes an offence cognizable by a Police Courts being in tb9^ 
form prescribed by Ordinance 18 of x 851. A party, in the ab* 
sence of special provision to the contrary, would be entitled 
to professional assistance* The acceptance aiid rejection of 
plaints is a proceeding in open Court, as sect. 2 of the Ordi« 
nance of 1871 does not direct that this shall take place in 
cbambers. Again> information of the date fi^xed for the 
hearing of the conplalnt is to be given to ** the complainant,. 
Of his proctor or advocate" (Ordinance 18 of 1861, sect. 5) j 
and under section 13, which provides for the dismissal of 
the charge in case *' the complainant shall not appear*' at 
the hearing, it has been held that appearance- by proctor is 
sufficient* P* (7. Pasyala 9,913 (i)« Moreover, where the 

(I) Civ. Mio. of S. C, loth August iB^a. 



340 

plaint is drawn and presented by a proctor, one of the chief 
reasons for examining the coniplainant no longer exists, 
viz the possiblity that he does not understand the nature 
ot the charge he is making. See the remarks of Catlbt, 
C. J., in P. C.yafina Lr. A (i). So the provbion as to 
examining the complainant has been held not to apply to a 
case in which the plaint is signed by the Queen^s Advocate. 
P. G. GolomBo 3,1 16 (2). 

Cur* adu. vult. 

(aoth November)^ The record w^s sent dowa to the 
Court below with a request to the Magistrate to state 
whether, at the time the proctor presented the plaint^ the 
complainant herself was present. The Police Ma|istrate 
replied that " the complainant was not before him when the 
plaint was presented to him by her Proctor Mr. Bartholo^ 
meitsxr^* An affidavit of Mr. Bartholomeusx was forwarded 
with this letter, in which he deposed that when the plaiot 
had been refused by the Magistrate, he (the, proctor) had 
informed him that the complainant herself was standing 
outsixle the Court and could be called ia for examination i 
but the Magistrate required the complainant alone i a present 
the plaints and refu*>ed to have the proclor or allow him to 
represent the complainant in any way. 

(latb December). BuRNSIDB^ C. J. — The Magistrate 
was, in my opinion^ right in not accepting the plaint from 
the Proctor^ the complainant herself not being before the 
Court. In Police Court cases a complainant may no doubt 
be advised, and to a certain extent be represented, by a 
Proctor 'y but a Proctor would have no right, except in the 
presence of the complainant^ to present a complaint on his 
behalf. The complaint is a personal one. The complain* 
ant's appearance before the Court, except the Police Magis- 
trate chooses to dispense with it, should be personal ^ 
otherwise the Magistrate is prevented from doing that 
which by law he is authorized to do, i.e. examine the com- 
plainant on the presentation of the plaint. It was not the 
duty of the Magistrate to call the complainant in for exami- 
nation : and until the Magistrate had accepted the plaint 
there was no proceeding before him on which the com- 
plainant conld be represented by a Proctor. 

Affirmed. 



(1) 4 S. C. O, 36W t (I) 4 S. C. C. MO. 



S41 

Jtk September, n^rd Octoher^ and ^oih November y 1883, 

Present — Bubnsidb, C. J.,, and Clarbncb, J. 



D. C. 1 Abep 
!^olombo, > 
85,440. J T. D. 



D. C. 1 AbEPPIK AHilBiA.T 

Colombo, > V. 

Martin us and another. 



jurisdiction — District Court or Court of Bequests —^5.1 OO' 
and interest —Practice in commercial matters — Costs. — Procton, 
status of, independent of client* 

A» action to recover Rs« loo and interest thereon' must be brought in 
the District CourL 

The Court will follow the Bnsriish practice in commercial (natter?^, 
and will not give interest on claims for goods sold and delivered, on 
account stated, and such like, unless a s|>ecific agreemerU to. pay in- 
terest be shown. 

Where a proctor has appeared in the case simpIjK as proctor for the 
plaintifif,, and has signed plaintiil*^ petition of appeal against an order 
directing plaintiff's proctor to pay the defendants^ costs, such proctor //./? 
has no status to appeal on- his own account against thai, order. ^ ' 

The plaintiff,, and his. proctor, filed ia this case separate 
petitions of appeal against an order of the District Judgje- 
(7. Berwick) casting the plaintiff's proctor in the defendants' 
costs. The facts, are safficbnlly disclosed ia the l^udgmeot 
of the Appellate Goiurt;. 

Browne for the plaintiff,, appellant* 
Layird for the plaintiff's proctor, appellant. 
Dofnhorst for the defendants,, respondents. 

Cur. adv. vult» 

(30th November)^ The j;udgment of the Court was> 
delivered by 

Clabbncb.. J, — The plaintiff's libel clamed Rs. no • 
for goods sold aad delivered and on the common money 
counts. DefendantSy who are Executors^ pleaded the 
general issue. At the trial tlie plaintiff produced a docu- 
ment which the District Judge accepted as genuine* anfd 
as establishing an account stated between plaintiff and 
defendants* testator to the extent of Rs. ico indebtedness. 
The additional Rs. 10 was claimed as money len^ but 
plaintiff offered no proof whatever in support of that claim. 
Thereupon the District Judge gave plaintiff judgment for 
Ks* 100 with interest at 9 per cent per annum from d^te 
of action, and considering that the action for Rs. i>oo and 






842 

interest should have been broaght ia the Cbart of Ref oetts^ 
and suspecting that the Rs. lo item had been improperly 
added to found District Court jartsdiciion, he ordered de« 
iendants' costs to be paid by plaintiff's Proctor. 

Plaintiff's Proctor presented a petition of appeal on his 
own account, as proctor, against that order* and also pre* 
sented another petition of appeal^ signed by him as plaintiff's 
proctor, purporting to be the petitiott of appeal of plaiatiff 
against the order* 

There is no appeal by the defeDd9iits against the JQdgiDeoi 
Both the appeals before us seek to relieve plaintifiE*s Proctor 
of defendants* costs. If the e£Eect of that woald be to 
throw them on the plaintifiE, we could not entertain the 
question in the absence of distinct assurance satisfying us- 
that the Proctor who has signed both appeal petitions had 
placed himself at arm's length from plaintiff. But in my 
opinion plaintiff's Proctor ought to be relieved of defendants' 
costi without throwing them on plaiatiff, and therefore we 
may entertain as plaintiff's appeal the appeal petition pre* 
sented by him as the appeal petition of plaintiff*. The 
appeal presented by him on his own account ought not to 
have been presented, since so long as he appeared io the 
suit simply as proctor he had no status independent of plaini^ 
tiff. That appeal must simply be rejected. 

There being no appeal by defendants against the judg* 
ment for Rs. joo and interest, we mast uke it that that 
judgment is right, and I may observe that were that matter 
open, I should not be prepared to say that judgment was 
wrong in giving interest. We must, m my opinion, foUowr 
the English practice in commercial matters, which does not 
allow a plaintiff interest on claims for goods sold and 
delivered, account stated, and the like, unless a specific 
Si^reement to pay interest is shown ^ but in this case the 
document which the District Judge accepted as proving the 
account stated contains mention of interest. 

The question, then, simply is». whether it would have- 
been within Court of Requests lurisdiction to decree pay- 
ment of interest over and above the Rs loo* There is at 
any rate a judgment giving plaintiff Rs. 103 and interest on 
Rs. 100 at 9 per cent per annum from the institution of 
the action to the date of the judgment. That is a judgment 
for more than Rs. loo. 

^ In my opinion, therefore, the Court of Requests had no^ 
lurisdiction, and therefore; irrespective of the Rs. io,.the 



943 

action cimnot be said to have been improperly brought in 
the District Ooart. There is, therefore* no valid grouod for 
gtring costs to the defendants. Bdt in the complete ab« 
seooe of explanation of the iosenion in the libel of the claim 
of Bs* io» which no attempt was made to sabstantiate, I 
do not think that we should take upon us to interfere with 
the District Judge's order to the length of giving costs to 
platnt>i£f. 

I think that the order in appeal should be varied by ex* 
pangmg the -order decreeing plaintiff's Proctor to pay de- 
fendants' costs» and in lieu thereof decreeing that plaintiff 
«nd defendants respectively bear their own cost$. 

Whether plaintifiE*a Proctor is entitied to recover costs 
Iffom his clientf is a question not now before us. 

Mo costs to be given of this appeal* 



Farutd* 



Proctor for the plaintiff, B ^F. Ferera^ 
Proctor for the defendants, ^ Ohlmus. 



6lh and nth December, 1883. 

Present— DiAS, J. 

C. R. \ T. Amaris Appu 
>lombo^ \ v. 

250. i W.^Sadris Pbrbra and others. 



Husband and wife ^Surviving spouse giving bond for debt 
ofdtceased spouse — Liability of land belonging to the com^ 
munity to be sold under judgment of» the bond^OhUdren of 
the marriage, rights of. 

The surviving spouse of a marriage contracted in the cooim unity of 
{roods bad (witbouc the consent of the children of themarriage> granted 
a peisooal debt-bond for the amount of principal and interest due to the 
same obligee upon an older bond of the deceased spouse. 

Held, that the entire property of the community was liable to sale in 
execution of the judgment obtained upon the survivor's bond, though 
the children of the marriage were no parties to -it, or to the action 
founded upon it 

The purchaser px such sale takes an imperfect title, subject for its 
validity to proof on his part that the obligation of the survivor had 
been incurrel for the purpose of paying off the debt of the community* 

Ederemanen'ig4im*s Case (1), and /). (7. Caltura 179064(2), speci- 
ally considered. 

(1) Vandtcsciaaien, 264. | (2) 3 Lotenz 235. 



S44 

Tins iras an actton for a declaratioa of title to> and eject- 
fnent of the defendants from, certain land purchased by the 
plaintiff in execution of a judgment passed in (7. R. GoUmio 
^,756, upon a debt bond dated i6th March 1878 executed 
in favour of the plaintiff in that suit by his defendant, 
Nonohamy The Fiscal seieed and sold (and the present 
plaintiff bought) in execution of this judgment, the land ia 
^question, which had belonged to the common estate of the 
obligor (Nonohamy) and her late husband. Nonohamy* s 
children, the present defendants, who were minors at the 
time, were no parties to the bond and to the suit founded 
upon it. Plaintiff alleged that the defendants disputed his 
title to one^half of the land, and were in possession. 

1 he Court below (G- 8, ff'illiame^ Oommr.) found that 
the bo« d. on which judgment, had been obtained in O. R. 
Colombo 29,7569 was granted by the widow Nonohamy in 
consideration of the obligee's cancelling a previous bond 
granted to him by her deceased husbands and was for the 
amount of principal and interest due upon the previous 
tH>nd I but that the whole of the land in question had been 
improperly sold in execution of the personal bond of the 
widow, to whom an undivided half only of the land belong* 
ed, the other half being the property of the children of the 
marriage. The plaintiff was therefore nonsuited with cost8, 
and he appealed. 

Dornhorst for the plaintiff, appellant. 
VanLaagenberg for the defendants* respondents. 

The following cases were referred to, in addition to those 
mentioned in the judgment :— IPijeratna v. Abeyweera 
(1) ; Ferdinandis v. Fernando (2). 

Cur, adv. vult. 

( 1 2th December). Dias, J. — The facts of this case are 
these : — The land in dispucp, an undivided half of Goraka- 
gahadeniai originally belonged to ^eronis Appu and his wife^ 
who were married in communi(.y. yeronit Appu in his 
life. time was indebted to Sidoris on a bond of 24th April, 
1877. ^^s widow Nonohamy paid off her husband's debt. 
by giving another bond of 16th March 1878 to the same 
creditor Sidoris, who put the bond in suit against Nonohamy ^ 
obtained judgment and execution, and caused the Fiscal to 

(0.^5 S. C. C. 70. I (2) s S. C. C, 162, 



845 

sell the laad in question! and at the sale the plaintiff became 
the purchaser. The defendants^ who are the heirs of yeronis 
Appu, dispute the plaintiff's right to the whole of what he 
bought. They only admit the plaintiff's right to half* 
Upon these admitted facts a question of law arises for con- 
sideratioDy viz. whether the survivor of two spouses has a 
right to create liabilities on the common estate for the pur^ 
pose of paying off the debts of the community. The right 
of the survivor of two married persons to alienate or encum* 
ber jthe property of the common estate for the purpose of 
paying off debts for which the common estate was liable* is 
recognised by the Homan Dutch Law, and I may refer to 
two cases in which this law was upheld and acted upon by 
tbe Supreme Court collectively. In the first case, which is 
Ederemanmagam*s Oase (i). tbe Supreme Court* says; **We 
come then to the second question proposed for our consider** 
atioD, viz. what power has the surviving parent (who has 
not taken out administration) to alienate or encumber 5 and 
this question is also answered by the authorities cited above. 
He may alienate for the payment of debts incurred during 
the subsistence of the community, or for their necessary 
purposes, probably also for other purposes plainly beneficial 
to the estate.'' In this appeal we are only concerned with 
the first part of this opinion, viz. the payment of the debts 
of the common estate. In Ederemanesingam's Case the 
question was whether alienation by the survivor of immovea.* 
ble property of the common estate for the payment of the 
debts of that common estate was good as against the heirs 
of the deceased spouse. This question the Supreme Court 
answered in the affirmative and upheld the right of the 
survivor to deal with the assets of the common estate for 
the payment of debts. The same proposition was laid down 
by the Supreme Court collectively in another case (2). In 
the present case the survivor incurred a debt to pay off a 
debt of the commnnityj and in the two cases above ceierred 
to the survivor alienated the estate property for the sanus 
purpose : but the principle which underlies all these cases is 
the same. In all the three cases the property of the com- 
mon estate was sold — in the two cases above referred to by 
a private conveyance by the survivor, and in this case by 
the Fiscal in execution of a -judgment founded on a bond 
executed by the survivor. The plaintiff's purchase under 
the Fiscal's sale stands on the same footing as if he had 

(i) Vanderstraaten 264. | (2) 3 Lorenz 235. 



846 

:^urchased from the survnror direct. It was urged for the 
defendaats that they were no parties to the jadgoaent and 
the execatton noder whieh the plaintiil pare based. 1 his 
contention) I think, is not soand^ yet, ff it was, the same 
objection might have been urged in the two cases already 
referred to, on the ground that the suryivor's eonveyance 
was. not binding on the heirsi as they were no parties to it. 
The Surrivor is supposed to represent aH the parties in« 
terested ife the com man estate* and it is only on this ground 
^hat the -survivor's acts were upheld as against the heirs. 
The surviving widow was the only debtor on the botid, and 
the creditor can ooly sue her on that bond, for the very 
obvious reason that he had no * cause of action against the 
defendants. . If the widow had a right to charge the pro. 
perty ot the cammon estate with payoient of the debts, it is 
plain that that -charge can only be enforced by a levy on 
estate property. A purchaser under the above circumstances 
doubtless takes an imperfect title, and io the language of 
the Supreme Court in Ederemanesingarns Case, the plaintiff 
bought from the Fiscal ** an imperiecc title, subject for its 
validity to the proof on his part that the sale was for the 
payment of the debts" {of the common estate). That proof 
is forthcoming in this case, and the principle of the two 
cases already referred to applies. 

It was admitted at the trial that the 2nd and 3fd deten- 
danis were married women, add the 4th and jth defendants 
were minors; ind they having relied on coverture and mino^ 
rity in their ansv^ers, they must be absolved from ih6 
instance with costs in both Courts as against the plaintiff. 
As between the plaintiff and the ist defendant, the judg^ 
meat appealed from must be reversed. 



Set aside. 



Prootor for the plaintiff, ^. £. R. Pereira* 
Preetor for the defeodaaUy 1^. P* Rantnngt^* 



APPENDIX, 



.^ < 



* > /. > > ^ ^. 



349 
Appendix A* 

(To Hendrick v. Frederick^ ante p «,) 
Present— Morgan, A. C. J., Stewart and Catley^ J J. 

D. C. 1 L* Difigiappu 
I4atara, > v 



latara, > 



a($) 5^9^ J L. Ct Bon Andris, 

Party paying off mortgage'^Swcesnon ta rights of mori't 
gagee — Necessity Jbr cession of action, 

Ferdinands for the defendant, appeUani. 
Browne lot the plaintiff, respandent, 

(34th Jane 1S75). ^^ Curiam— The Dislriet Judge haft 
not stated any reason for giving jodgmeot in plaintiff's. 
favQor f bat the plaintiS's Counsel's contention before the 
Conrt is that his client is entitled to jadgment as being 
placed in the position of the mortgagee, whose mortgs^e 
he paid off in 187a* But no^ transfepr of the. mortgage or 
cession of action in favour of tbs plaintiff has been prpved 
apd it has been decided by this Oourt that such transfer or 
cession is necessary ta entitle a person paying off a o^ort* 
gage debt to the rights of the mortgagee. 

Judgment of 33rd January 1875 ^^^ aside, and plaintiff 
nonsnited with costs. 



Present— AHpiBBSON', A. C. J., Stewart and 

OtABIiNCBy JJ. 

■ ;■'... .. ■ ' 

D. C. 1 A' E, Sayadu Mahammado 
Badcdla, > • v. 



} 



23,149. J A. A* Assan Alyar. 

Stranger paying off^morigageT'JEUgkt to s tand in tm>rtg<»^ 
gee's shoes '^Necessity Jot notarial ossignMeni'^Oritinance J 
of 18409 sect. a. . ^ 

Plaintiff declared upon aparol agreement to buy land of tb^ 
defendant, in pursuance of which plaintiff bad paid defen" 



3S0> 

dant coDsid^ratioo, which it Wfis now sougbt tq recover as^ 
defendant had failed to convey. Part of the caoney paid by 
plaintiff bs^i been applied to discharging a mortgage on the 
lands» and plaintiff prayed a decree declaring the lands^ 
specially executable for his ]a4gmeat« Judgment was^ 
entered by default, and the kmds sold- 

These lands had been vaoff^f^geA toi Skpr^mamm^ who- 
assigned his tsterest by deed to Perva Karuppen» to whom 
the laQds were «lao affterwavda aeaondarily mortgaged. 
With a view to his purQba^o of Ul9 l<Hi49, uodei the agreo* 
ment^ plaintiff paid off IPma Karuppen^ but got no cession 
of action or assignment of hi^ tights. Beiofe this-paymoat 
defendant had made . a tarti^j / mortgage of the \ukd to- 
Abubaker, who assigned it by deed to Annamalak Anna^ 
mulai now contested the .plaintiffs. righli ^o idraw the pro- 
ceeds realised by sale of the laqds* 

The District Judge (€, Bj £K Pmnyctdok) held, that, in. 
view of Ordinance 7 of 1840^ plaintiff was not entkledl to- 
priority, but that ** as a matter of plain right and wrong^^ 
Annamabd should not be givea prefe«eno#» as he knew that 
the mortgage assigned to i him was only a» tertiary one and* 
that Ptria kapuppen\ two bonds had preterence.^ Plain«^ 
tiff was thereiote allewed to' draw the procaeds,. and. Amuu* 
maUd and his assignor appended. 

Ferdinands, for the appelknts. 
Ondaatje for the plaintiff^ respondent. 

(17th November 1876). "The judgment of the Court 
was delivered by 

Stb^A^t, J.*i^t asHley.apd ^ is ofdf led tbat thf claim, 
of the appellants Ann^nuUai ^nd 4iubo^ to be paid ia 
preference by virtue of the mortgage to the latter and the 
assignment thereof t(^tl9(^ ^j;«ier» b^.4lllowed« To m^le 
plaintiff to stand in the place of Perta Karuppen- 'Vk w^fl 
essential that he should hairci hbtaiACSi 4^ ti:4psfer oC.tiie 
mortgage to Feria Karuppen or a legal cession of Perio' 
Jfar»)Df6nV sight of abtipa» n«itt|9E^ of owl|ici|\ ^ : plaiotiS 
poaaaases* ) Sea the judigmant ot th^ S^opseaaft Oonri iia jDi 
O. Maiara 26>949i 24th June 1875, 



351 

<(To Cannen Assary v« Amna^alem Aisary^ ante p. 43). 

D- 0. 1 wl. £. V. Moorogappa Cketty 
7olombo» 5 V, 

'<53»498. ^ Simon 4e SUva. 

Stttmp, cancdlation rf^^Adoption. of stamp 'Vendot's date* 



Berwick^ D. J. — The first iqaestion the Coart has td 
decide is whether when a pefson givei another his stg« 
natare to a stamped docameoty aathorising him to fill it 
ap as a Proinissory Note for a oertoin sato, he naay 
afterwards repodiate what is done ta acoordaoce with 
his own aathority and directions* and deny that there 
is a valid obligation. For the decision of this qoestion il 
makes no difiEerence whether the document so authorised 
to be so created be a Promissory Note or some other 
species of obligation, such as a Bond or a Cheque. We 
have frequently, for instaocft, heard of this kind of autho* 
Tity to fill up blank Cheques. 

There is no plea or evidence in this case that the plaintiff 
abased the power deputed to him by fiiJing Up the docuraent 
of obligation for a larger amount than he had been authOi^ 
rised to insert— *no plea- or .evidence of any fraud or impo^ 
silion praciise<l-^od no plea or evidence of want of 
consideration. 

I am of opinion that a man is not entitled to repudiate an 
ftct of this nature^ done by his own authority* and in precise 
compliance with that. And that Wheri, as in this case, the 
blank cheque or note was given for a debt actually due, a 
man is guilty of a fraud and imposition on his creditor, who 
gets his forbearance by the indulgence oi an intended 
Promissory Note, with the intention of abusing that for. 
bearance foy taming round and disputing its validity. I 
hold that the docnment creates a Talid obligation. 

The other questions turn on the technical requirements 
to the validity of a Promissory Note under the Stamp Or« 
dinanoe t that is to say, have the stamps been duly cancelled 
bf the person on whom the Ordinance casts the duty of 
doing so, viz. in this case, by the defendant P On this part 
of (he case I have merely to repeat the words of my judi;. 
ment in case 62,495 (ajrd October, 1873) in which I held 
that when a note is eiecated on the day which the stamps 
vendor's memorandum on the stamp shews to have been 



852 



the <iate of the sala of the stamp, the maker may ad4ipt 
the writiag he finds already oq the stamp aad need not 
repeat the entry of the date* aqd multo magis when he 
cannot write, as is the fact here* where the maker can only 
sign by a mark» and cannot write a date. He- cannot even 
cipher. In all other respects the facts are identical. The 
judgment in 62,495 is appended and is to be taken as herein 
incorporated. 

Judgment will be entered fpr the Plaintiff with costs. 

^ote.^ Defendant's counsel moyed to be- allowed to 
amend bis pleadings by pleading fraad and want of con.* 
sideration— which* being objected to by plaintiff's Proctor» 
the Court disallowed. 

Judgment in No, 62,495* 

(2jrd. October 1873). B«rwick, D, J.— It l^ objected 

to the Promissory Note sued upon that it is invalid, 
inasmuch as it has not been duly stamped at the time of 
execution, and that it caooot now be stamped. The first* 
quesiion that arises is a general one applicable to all docu« 
ments requiring stamps, namely » whether la order to bemg 
deemed *' duly stamped?, it is necessary that the date of 
cancellation should be written accross the stamp, (i) by 
the very hand of the person who cancels ti by writing his 
name or initials or mark thereon; and (a) simultaneously 
with his doing this. In the present case the stamp bears 
on it the date •« 20th Novr. /72" written by the stamp- 
vendor : the document to which it is affixed was executed 
on the same date : and at the time of execution the maker 
of the Note simply wrote his name across the stamp 
without adding (or repeating) the date of doing so. It is 
contended for the plaintiff that he adopted the '* true date" 
he found already on it. 

The words of the 9th section of Ord. No. 13 of 1871 
which apply are as follows :—«' An idstroment is not to be 
deemed duly stamped unless the affixed stamp be of not 
less than the proper amount of duty required by this Ordi- 
nance, and unless the person required by this Ordinance 
to cancel the adhesive stamp! affixed to the instrument 
cancel the same by writing or marking in ink, on or across 
the stamp, his name or initials, or the name or initials of 



353 



his firm or principal, together with the trae date of his so 
writing or marking, so that every state p may be effectually 
cancelled and rendered incapable of being, used for any 
other instrument." 

This clause (with some modifications) was copied from 
the 24th section of 3J and 34 Vict. c. 97, which however 
had the very essential addition; which our legislators (for 
what reason I know not) have omitted, '* or unless^it is 
otherwise proved that the stamp appearing on the instru.* 
ment was affi&ed thereto at the proper time 9*' words which^ 
though they refer to the various subsequent provisions for 
the different times when different instruments must or may 
be stamped, also seem to me to shew that the finglish 
Legislature did not mean to make the dating of the cancel - 
la I ion imperative. 

(^1) I will first dispose of the question, whether the 
date of cancellation must be written by the very hand of th^ 
person who writes his name, initials, or mark across the 
stamp for the purpose of cancelling it* Now* when I siga 
or seal a document or deed which a Notary or clerk has 
'previously written out and dated for my signature, the 
dating^ and every word in it becomes, by my signing, as 
much my yet as if I had written out every word with my 
own hand* although in truth the penmanship was that of a 
clerk. This is so obvious, thati it is difficult to imagine^ 
<aod would require very conclusive evidence and unmis" 
takeable language to shew) that the legislature intended 
CQore from the cancellor of a penny stamp than the law re« 
quires from the grantor of a solemn deed 3 and so, it is a 
perfectly reasonable presumption that the enactment in 
question did not mean to insist that the date, like the 
signature, need be iu the parties* own handwriting, although 
such may be the strictly grammatical construction of the 
sentence. But the context and the very reason of the case 
clearly shew that the strict grammar must be disregarded 
and that the other is the just interpretation. For the enact- 
ment contemp4ates the case of persons who are unable to 
write, as it was to be expected that the Legislature would 
do in a country where a comparatively small number of 
peasant proprietors and other persons who have constantly 
to deal with stamped documents, can sign th^r names* 
People are therefore required by the Ordinance to write or 
mark their *< name or initials,*' which (though a somewhat 
inaccurate expression) evidently means that people who 



354 
JLppradix S- 

cannot write their name or initials are to sign by making 
their marks. The conpHng of the two distinct verbs ia the 
phrase '' write or mark*' ne^ssarilj implies distinct mean* 
ings or shades oi meaning, and it mast be taken that the 
liberty to *• mark*' id for thos3 who cannot " write" and 
who can only sign by a mark. But sucb persons are not 
likely to be able to write or cipher a date, which must 
therefore in their case be done by others than the persons 
required by the Ordinance to cancel by their marks the 
stamps on docamenis they sign, issue or deliver. 

The intention and true interpretation may be ascertained 
from another section of the same Ordinance, viz. sect. 15 ; or 
at all events it aids this interpretation. This is the section 
which is intended to enforce the due stamping of instrnments 
by the sanction of a pecuniary penalty : and all that It 
requires is that it shall be the duty of every person signing 
as a party, or issuing or delivering any instrument Ac, to see 
[which evidently means to take care] that the stamps arcs 
distinctly [not '* duly"] cancelled before he si^ns, issues or 
delivers such instrument. It seems to me thao an indict*, 
ment framed on the only section which defines a specific 
pecuniary penalty for breaking the substance of the rule» 
vizu the cancellsltion of the stamp before ei^cutioQ or 
delivery of the insrrument, would be bad if it charged the 
accused with not filling up the date with his own hand, 

(2) As regards the necessity for the date of cancellatioa 
being noted at the time of cancellation^ — there is nothing 
either in the English Act or the Ceylon Ordiuance whicli 
expressly requires this (although the 13th section of the 
latter requires that the stamps must be cancelled before the 
signature, issue, or delivery of instruments, on pain of a 
pecuniary penalty for default). They simply provide that 
an instrument shall not be deemed '* duly stamped*' until 
it has been cancelled in the manner provided ; and assum- 
ing the insertion of the true date of doing so to be a part of 
the requisite cancellation, the purpose of the Ordinance is 
satisfied by the true date being written at any time, whether 
that purpoise be to aid in preventing the same stamp being 
subsequently used for another document, or whether it be 
to indicate whether the stamp was affixed " at the proper 
time." For either of these purposes it cannot matter what 
interval of time elapsed between the signing and the dating : 
only, till the true date is there, the stamp is not dulj can* 
cell^. £speciaUj, for either of these purposes, it canaot 



3^ 
Appendix R 

matter that tbe date of cancellation was written some 
minutes or some hours previous to the writing of the ipl* 
tials or signature ; i.e. whether unico contexts with ir, or 
otherwise. Mere simultaneousness is* therefore*. I think, not 
I necessary : at all events, not if the date was inserted or 
adopted with the object of canceUatioa ^ and this last re. 
mark suggests the only real difficulty i have on this part of 
the case- 
Here the date was not put on the stamp unico contextit 
with the cancellation* hot for quite a di£ferent object, vizc. 
by the stamp^vendor in order to shew iha date of sale*. 
which happened also ta be the very date of making the 
instrument and the true date of cancellation j. and the diffi^ 
culty simply arises from the circumstance that in the event 
of the stamp being subsequently used on aaothec document, 
either bv the same person or by a person bearing the same 
came or initials as he who cancelled it* his fraud on the 
revenue would not be apparent on the face of the stamps 
itself » for the stamp- vendor's date would staad for its ori" 
|{inal purpose only* and the second user might add a new 
date of use to those initials which he found corresponding 
with his own. In this view*, mere initialing* without a 
date distinct from that pot by the stamp^vendor would not 
effect what the Ordinance desires* namely that every stamp. 
' may be rendered incapable of being used for any other 
instrument*" It was perhaps on this account that the 
alternative provision in the corresponding, clause of the 
fnglish Act (which appears to admit of other proof) was 
omitted in our Ordinance. But on the wbole^ seeing the 
remoteness of this continge^cy^ which indeed involves that 
there be not onlv identity in the name or initials* but that 
the ordinary handwriting and signatures of two persons 
should be nndtstinguishable 3. seeing also the weighty con- 
siderations on the other side* the universality of the rule 
which enables a signatory to adopt that which he finds 
re^y written and subscribes to ^ that, moreover* in this 
case being the '* true date^* of his own signature y seeing the 
absolute impossibility that ^ marksmen** should write the 
date with their own hands $. I might almost add, seeing. 
the great inconvenience to the public of having, as in my 
own case* constantly to date as well as initial 30 to ^o 
stamps on a single official or judicial document^ an incon- 
venienca which it is difficult to think the legislature con- 
templated } and keeping in view that enactments of this 



JLppendis: Vir 

kind shonld be construed so as to press as little as possible 
on tbe subject, consistently with their plain and rational 
interpretation, and withoat doing manifest violence to theoa > 
—I inclrae to think that in a case such as thisr where a man 
adopted and subscribed to that *' true date'^ which he found 
on the stamp when he cancelled it by signing his name 
across it on the actual day on which he executed the in* 
strnmentf the stamp was ** duly cancelled*' withia the 
intention of the Ordinance* 

Another question raised in this case is, whether the 
Ptomissory Note may now be stamped at the trial under 
sections 58, 39, and 40, if held to be insufficiently cancelled* 
Strictly speaking the above finding makes it unnecessary 
for me to give a decision on this point at present, but it is 
better that I should do so now, as it will save tbe expense 
of a second appeal in the event of the Supreme Court 
taking a different view from this Court on the other ques^ 
tion, and will enable the whole cause to be finally disposed 
of at once in each Court, for the stamping now would 
practically end the case, there being no defence besides that 
founded on the Stamp Ordinance> 

I am of opinion that even if the Note has not already 
been duly stamped by proper cancellation, it may now be 
stamped under sections 38, 39, and 40 by order of the Judge 
and then given in evidence : whereupon judgaient would 
necessarily follow for the plaintiff. 

Under these sections all documents tendered in evidence 
at a trial may be post-stamped by leave of the District 
Judge, provided only that the instruaoent in question *^ is 
one which may legally be stamped after the execution 
thereof." These words, however, I think contemplate 
instruments which, though they may be legally stamped by 
the Commissioner under certain circumstances and within a 
certain time in virtue of sections 23 and 36, cannot i^ur* 
wise be legally stamped after execution. The question 
here, therefore, is whether a Promissory Note more than 
14 days old may legally be stamped after its execution. 

Now, the 8th section, which provides that no instrument 
•• shall be pleaded or given in evidence or admitted to be 
good, useful or available in law unless it is duly stamped,*' 
does not invalidate or render void, though it suspends the 
operation of, an instrument : the invariable construction of 
similar English provisions having been that the word " un- 
less" means merely " until." But until the recent Ordi- 



857 

naoce No: 23 of 1871, Promissory Notes as well as Bilk of 
£ichaage stood here as at home oa this peculiar footing,, 
that they w^re absolutely wnd if nob stamped at the lime of 
their being made (or within 14 days, in case of urgent necas- 
8}ty)> and could never be subsequently stamped so as to be 
made available in law for any purpose whatever. This was 
provided for in the previous Ordinance 11 of i86x by the 
words at the end of sect. 15 : " No person who shall uke or 
receive fr6na any other person any such Bill, Draft, Cheque^ 
Order, or Note as aforesaid, either in payment or as a 
security, or by purchase or otherwise, shall he entitled to 
recover thereon, or to make the same available for any pur- 
pose whatever.*' There is a similar clause in the new 
Ordinance, but with this difference, that either by accident 
or design (I cannot say which) the word No^e is omitted, 
and the question comes |o this. Can the Court supply the 
otitission } or> Is a promissory note identical with^ or 
intended to be included in, any (and if so in which) of the 
things described as ** bill of exchange, draft, cheque, or 
order," in the 24th clause (art. 3) of the new Ordinance ? 

A Promissory Note is a very different thing in its nature 
and some of its legal incidents from a Bill of Exchange,, and 
no lawyer would intentionally confound them. Indeed it 
was not contended that a Bill of Exchange is a Promissory 
Note. But it was argued by the learned Counsel for the 
defendant that a Promissory Note is comprehended in the 
term ** draft.'* If so it is contrary to the plain meaning of 
the term. Drafts and Cheques are identical with l^ills of 
Exchange : they are directions to a third person to pay 
money, but not so are Promissory Notes. The English 
Act has closely adhered to this distinction ; for sect. 53 and 
sect. 54 (of 33 and 34 Vict. c. 97) provide that ** except as 
aforesaid" (ihe exception referring to the case of an instru^ 
meat bearing an impressed stamp of sufficient amount but 
improper denomination) ** no Bill of Exchange of Promts^ 
sory Note shall be stamped with an impressed stamp after 
the execution thereof j" and that a person who takes or 
receives such ** hUlor note^** not being duly stamped, •• shalt 
not be entitled to recover thereon or to make the same 
available for any purpose whatever"} and sections 48 and 
49 respectively define the terms ** Bill of Exchange" and 
** Promissory Note" for the purposes of the Act ; the one 
as including drafts order, cheque, and letter of credi% and 
documents entitling a person to draw upon any other person 



358 
Appendix B. 

for a sntn of money, and orders for payment of any^ sum of 
money in certain modes } bat define a Promissory Note as 
** any document or writing (except a Bank note) containing 
a promise to pay any sum of money." 

As our Ordinance was framed on that Act, the statutory^ 
definitions in the one are proper canons for interpretation 
of the other in case of any doubt or peculiarityr or yariance- 
from the ordinary legal meaning of words, — bu^ indeed 
(so far as concerns the present case) there is no variance in^ 
the English Act from the ordinary legal distinction between 
bills of exchange and promissory notes* Neither by Com- 
mon Law nor statutory law is a promissory note the same 
as a draft or Bill of Exchange, or order on another person. 
I cannot therefore consider it inchided in any of these 
terms. 

Then can I supply the omission ? I cannot tell whether 
the omission was designed or accidental. It may have beea 
designed. It is by no means clearly known to nie what is 
the ground on which the English Legislature excepted Bills 
and Promissory Notes, and Bills of Lading from the gene- 
ral rule, and the local legislature may well have applied a 
different policy in view of the peculiar circumstances of this 
colony where Promissory Notes bear such a remarkably 
disproportionate excess to Bills of Exchange in ordinary 
inland transactions. Is the Court to impose a new tax or 
burden on the subject which the Legislature has not thought 
fit to impose? 

Again, assuming the omission to have been an accident 
and oversight, has the Court the power to remedy it, or 
should this be left to the Legislature P I think clearly the 
latter. The leading rules on the subject are that effect 
should only be given to a presumed intention when it is such 
an intention as the Legislature has used fit words to express 
(Dwarris, p- j6i) > wordsiare not ta be extended to compre- 
hend a case within the supposed ^meaning of the Legislature* 
[with two exceptions, neither of which apply in this case} 
.(Dwarris, 583) ; e£fect is not to be given to an intention 
not expressed, when it is an instance of quod voluit non 
dixit: a casus omissus can in no case be supplied by a Court 
of law ; for that would be to make laws (Dwarris, 598) f 
and lastly, acts imposing burdens on the public, including 
Stamp Acts, are.in favour of the public to be strictly constru- 
ed (Dwarris, 646, and Lord Tenterden*s judgment in Tom-^ 
hns V. Ashby, 6 B. and C.> 5^2), Doubtless^ Courts have 



359 
Appendix B. 

sometimes supplied words ia a statute, but I know no case 
where they have doue so in order to cause or extend a 
burden on the public | and however I might be disposed to 
supply new words oeoessary to give effect to the unmis. 
takeable intention of a clause, I cannot supply a new penal- 
ty in addition to the pecuniary penalty (as I am asked to do 
here) which the Ordinance has not provided ; nor will I 
isupply a merely presumed or an omitted intention* 

The argument drawn from the cirsumstance that the 
Ordinance makes it penal to make or issue a Promissory 
Note not duly stamped proves too much» for it would 
apply equally to receipts* acquittances and other documents 
which are clearly not void for want of being duly stamped, 
and may be poststamped by direction of the Judge, and then 
received in evidence* For these reasons I think that pro* 
missory. notes may be stamped after execution under sec. 
39, and I would direct this to be done in the present case, 
if I thought the document already insufficiently stamped. 
But in view of the opinion already expressed on the latter 
point such direction is unnecessary. 

Judgment will be entered for the plaintiff for the amount 
of the Note in suit with interest thereon at la per cent, per 
annum froip its date till judgment, and interest on the 
whole at the same rate from judgment till payment. Th e 
agreement to pay 24 per cent, has in other cases been held 
illegal. 

It is to be particularly regretted that our Legislature has 
not followed the provisions of sect. 5 if subsection 3, pro* 
visoes a and b, of the English Act, with respect to caocelL 
ing adhesive stamps on Bills and Notes. 



In Apfbal, before Moboan, A. C. J., Stewart and 
Catlbt, }}', Affirmed for the reasons given by the learned 
District Judge, but interest allowed at the rate stipulated 
for. (Civil Minutes, 13th July 1875.) 

This decision was followed (so far as concerns the Stamp* 
ing of promissory notes after execution) by the same learned 
Judges in D. C. Colombo, 6j,823> decided the same day 
ia appeal. So far as regards the adoption by the maker of 
the stamp vendor's date, the above judgment was followed 
by DiAS, J. in D. C. Kandy, 84,050 {Civil Minutes, 26th 
May, 1880,) and by the Supreme Court in very many 
subsequent c^ses* 



360 
Appttodiz C. 

(To Bawa v. Askmore, ante p nj). 

iitk and ztnd March, i88i. 

Pre8ent-*0AYLB¥, C.Jo CLARBNOi^and Diks, JJ* 



D. C. 'J guards de Soyxa 
^alutara* > v. 

34,61 !• -''Cj. Z). L. Browne, 

The facts sufficiently appear from the judgments in appeal* 

Van Langmberg for the plaintiff, appellant* 
Broume for the defendant, respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult» 

(amd March). Caylit, 0. J.— We do not think that 
plainiiff was guilty of any contempt of Court in entering 
the Police Gouri when he did. A Police Court is open, 
So long as their is fair room, to any one who will behave 
himself properly and not disturb the proceediags, and if 
the effect of the Police Magistrate's order was to exclude 
the public generally from his Court we think that such 
•order was ultra vires. The publicity of Courts of justice is 
«n important safe-guard for the dne aduainistratioa of 
justice, fnd should be maintained. It may, however, be 
that the order was only intended to exclude persons froca 
;flome particular part of the Court, where their presence 
might interfere with the business. It is not, however^ 
necessary to decide upon the legality of the order. Tha£ 
the defendant bona fide thought that the plaintiff had com^ 
mitted a contempt m coming into the Court in spite of this 
order, we have no doubt, though there is nothing to show 
that plaintiff was aware of the order \ but the faet that the 
defendant made a mistake in treating as a contempt that 
which was not a contempt will not render him liable to an 
actioq for damages, tf be acted in his judicial capacity and 
"within the scope of his jurisdiction. Now, the 107th 
section of the Ordinance No. 11 of i858 confers upon 
Police Magistrates the power of causing persons who com-* 
mit contempt of Court to be apprehended ; so that appre- 
hension for contempt is within the scope of a Magistrate's 
jurtsdictton 5 and although in this case he may have acted 
(as we think he did) upon an erroneous view of the law, his 
act, though ilLadvised, is not actionable. After causing the 



361 
Appendix C* 

plaintiff to be afyprehended, the defendant ought in ordinary 
course to have charged him with the contempt, and theq 
have taken bail from him to appear the next day and answer 
to the charge, or have remanded him if he could not give 
bail. Instead of this, the defendant caused the plaintiff to be 
detained in the Court, until he had finished hearing the case 
which he was then trying as Police Magistrate. It appears 
from the judgment of the District Court that the plaintiff 
was thus detained for about lo minutes, when the defend- 
ant, thinking it unnecessary to take further proceedings, 
released him. A judge or magistrate must have some con<* 
trol over the arrangement of the business of his Court, and 
we do not think that the defendant acted beyond his powers 
in keeping the plaintiff in Court for lo minutes (while he 
finished the case he was then hearing) before taking the 
proper proceedings for contempt j nor was he liable to an 
action for releasing the plaintiff without taking these pro^ 
ceediogs. We accordmgly think that the judgment of the 
Court below must be affirmed. 

It need hardly be observed that the remarks of the 
plaintiff's proctor in the petition of appeal as to the manner 
in which the defendant in his (the proctor's) o)»inion gave 
bis evidence are altogether impioper. Ihe plaintiff's proc 
tor's opinion as to the demeanour of the defendant in the 
witness-box can have no possible bearing on the appeal ; 
and the expression of such opinion, if inserted with the 
object of prejudicing the defendant's case, amounts to a 
contempt of this Court. Moreover, it appears from the 
District Judge's letter, which is filed in the case, that these 
comments of the proctor have no foundation in fact. 

Clabbncb, J., concurred. 

DiAS, J. — ^This is an action by the plaintiff against the 
defendant, Mr. Browne, who is the Mai^istrate of the Police 
Court of Panadura, to recover damages for causing the 
plaintiff to be assaulted when he entered the Panadura 
Court, and for illegal detention. The defendant pleads 
'* not guilty," and says that, aeting in his judicial capacity, 
he caused the plaintiff to be detained for misconduct in 
disturbing the defendant in the discharge of his judicial 
duties* The case was tried on the 31st May 1880, and it 



362 
JLppendiz C. 

appeared that on the day the plaintiff is said to have been 
detained, vis. the ^8th January i83o> the defendant was 
engaged in hearing a Police Court charge, when plaintiflf 
entered the Court and made a noise and came between the 
defendant and the accused parties in the Police Court case 
which was then being heard^ when the defendant ordered 
the plaintiff to be detained as for a contempt of Coart. It 
also appears that the Polioe Magistrate^ Mr« Broitme^ had 
issued a general order last year that the Court house should 
be kept clear during the hearing of the cases* and that all 
p§rties not aoiually engaged in the Court should remain in 
the outer verandah. There can be no doubt of the right of 
a judge to do such acts as are necessary to preserve order in 
the Court) but a general order like the one issued by the 
iSdagistrate is not right* as every Court of justice is open to 
the public» who have a right to enter it not only as parties 
concerned in suits but even as spectators, provided they 
conduct themselves in a proper and orderly- manner^ so as 
not to disturb the proceedings of the Court. The question 
which the District Judge had to decide was, whether the 
defendant in doing what he did was acting in his judicial 
capacity. This issue was found in favor of the defendant, 
and the plaintiff's claim was accordingly dismissed. This 
dismissal, I think, is right and should be affirmed. 

The District Judge in a letter calls our attention to some 
improper remarks in the petition of appeal. This petition 
of appeal U signed by plaiutiff*s proctor, and I agree with 
the District Judge that the proceedings do not warrant the 
remarks in the appeal petition, aad I think that the conduct 
of the proctor, who attached his signature to the appeal 
petition, is highly reprehensible; but I do not think it 
necessary to take any further notice of such conduct thaQ 
to express my disapprobation of it* 

Affirmed* 



S6a 

(To B€ttva Y. AshmorCf anle p 1 1 1)-. 



C. R. -J Af. 27. Oa 
Kandy, > 

10,830. J r. iv: ikf. 



C. R- 1 Af . N. Coder Mohiadeen 

V. 

Ismail Ledbe. 



P/aiW— -The plaintiff io person sues the defendant for the 
recovery of the sum of Ks 70 being rent due by defendiinc 
to plarntifE for the use and occupation by defendant with 
plaintiff's permission of house No. 36situated 2X Trincomalie 
Street^ Kandy, belonging to plaintiff » from a and March 
iSSi to a 5th May 188a, at the rate of Rs. j per mensemt 
which sum defendant has failed to pay though often de» 
manded. And plainiiff prays for judgment against the 
defendant for the said sum of Rs« 70 and costs of suit, 

iiftste^fr --The defendant in person answering says that he 
never occupied a house in rent belonging to the plaintiflE» 
and that he was neves indebted to him ia the amount 
claimed or any part theceof as house rent. Wherefore 
defendant prays that plaintiffs actioa may be dismissed 
with costs. 

fudgmenf {%$i\^ ]\x\y 188 a). 

In this case defendant originally filed* answer denying the 
«se and occupation of plaintitf^s house — that is, as I' under- 
stand, it,, the house alluded to in the Libel y for if it has not 
that meaning,, then it is without meaning at all. At the 
day of trial defendant by his Procter moved to amend, his 
Answer by admitting being in possession (i.e. ia use and 
occupiM.ion). of the house, and claiming it as his own pro« 
perty. 

This extraordinay application was, as a matter of course, 
disallowed^, and the case went to trial on the pleadings. 

The defendant then admitted being in occupation, and 
judgment must necessarily go against hin^ Hie has by 
amendment shown himself unworthy of belief, and the 
Court will believe the plaintiff. 

The order of the Court is thai the defendant do 



864 
paj plaintiffs the sum ot Rs. 70.00 and cogts of soit* 

A* M. ASHMORE, 

CoflQiniBsioner. 

The defendant appealed » 

No Counsel appeared for hrm. 
Domhorst for the plaintiff* respondent. 

(17th August i88s). Clarence, J — The Libel and 
Answer appear to have bath been drawn by petition- 
drawers. The term *• rent'* is used in both, but the inten^ 
tion of the Libel seems to be, to sue defendant for use and 
occupation of a certain house, and the intention of the 
Answer seems to be to plead jtunquam indeHtatus, under 
which plea it would be open to defendant to set up the 
defence that the house was his and not plaintiff's. 

A Court of Requests case of this kind, however, is best 
not disposed of upon considerations as to the nature of the 
English action for use and occupation* or of the Ongltsh 
plea of the general issue, — a plea which, I hope, may ere 
long be banished from our Courts. . 

It would seem that plaintiff claims the house in question 
as plaintiff's, and defendant claims it as de'endant^s. Both 
parties should have further opportunity of adducing evidence 
directed to that issue. Defendant's occupation seems ^o l>e 
admitted. As plaintiff does not appear to have taken any 
objection to defendant's going into the qaedtion of title, 
there will be no costs in appeal. 

Set adde. Further triaL 

Proctor for the plaintiff* J. D* ^onklaas. 
Froctor lor the defendant* A» Bawa. 



365 



(To Ast^mru ?. ymfetm Ouru, qmU p 40). 

Colombo, f ▼• 
83,181. ' Ferera* C 

^jurisdiction of Court io grant costs where it has i»junsiic^ 

turn to try the actiom. 

The facts are Bafficieotlj discloBed in the jadgofeeot of tho 
District Jadge {Berwick^. At the trial on dth Deoember 
tS^, Ihimbletony instrocted by J. B« R. Pefein^ oppeared 
for the ptaintifF, and Weinman, instraeted by £• F. Perera^ 
for the defendant. The following >adgmem wm deliforad 
in Court on nth January, 1883:-^ 

This is an action at the instance of a hasband* eonclod^ 
ing for a dfvoroe > und a plea to the territorial lorisdictioQ 
of the Court has be«n pot in on behalf of the «rife. It has 
been agreed by Counsel lor the respectiYe parties that this 
plei^ mast be sustained, and it will, therefore^ be decreed 
that this present suit by the plaintiff be dismissed for want 
of jurisdiction in the Coart to deternMne it* 

It remains to decide as to the questioa of costs,, and this 
was the only question rirtually argued before me, defendant's 
Counsel contending that she is entitled to costs» and plains 
tifi^s Counsel opposing on the ground that if the Goart has 
no jurisdiction to grant the prayer of the libel it has no 
power to award costs — no jurisdiction in the salt at aH. 
Obviously the argument for the plaintiff seems opposed to 
reason and logic. It does not foUow in reason or logic that 
because a Coott has no jurisdiction to award the prayer of 
the libel it has no jurisdiction in the suit at alt. If it were 
so, it would not have jurisdiction to decide that it had n6 
jurisdiction : which is absurd. 

It has. however, been decided in England that under the 
Common Law of that Kingdom a Court has no power to 
award costs when the subject or the object of the sttit is 
out of its jurisdiction^ It was in effect so ruled in the 
Court of Exchequer by Chief Baron Pollock and Baroft 
Watson in 1857 in Lauford v. Partridge (26 L. J. Ex., 
N. 8., 14) 5 the gist of the ruling is summed up in the 
Chief Baron's words : •• The Conrt has merely the powrt' 
to declare its own incompetency at the trial, and direct 



S66 

the suit shall abate." Agaia, in the following year, 
1858, in Peacock v. the Queen (27 L. J. 0. P. 225), 
the Court of Common Pleas having dtsmissed an ap. 
peal on the ground of its want of jurisdiction^ the 
defendant's Counsel applied for costs, " but the Court 
thought that under the circumstances they ought not to be 
granted.*' This decision does not seem to be of much 
value on the general question, because it does not profess 
to be founded on any general principle»^ but on some peculiar 
circumstances, which seems to indicate that under othen 
circumstances the Court would have decreed costs. la 
another case which occuried nearly 20 jrears later, Brown v. 
Shaw, decided in 1876 (L.. R. i Ex. Div. 425)^ the de- 
fendant in a County Court suit appealed against a judgment 
of that Court, and the superior Court refused costs, Bramwell, 
B., giving what appears to me the extraordinary reason^ 
that *<the plaintiff need not have appeared. If we have no 
jurisdiction it is a matter coram non judiccy and I think we 
have no power to grant costs. We must take it, then, thak 
plaintiff's counsel has appeared simply as amicus curias to 
point out that we have no jurisdiction." We may take it 
as a matter of fact that plaintiff's counsel had not appeared 
as amicus curus, but that he appeared before it as plaintiff's 
Counsel on a retainer to plead for his client, and that he 
appeared on behalf of his client purely j and notbing can. 
more conclusively demonstrate the inherent unsoundness of 
a settled principle than the necessity for bolstering it up^ 
with palpably false assumptions. The true test, whether 
a person was bound to appear to contest jurisdiction, or 
was to treat the suit with impunity as a mere nullity, is- 
whether the incompetency of the tribunal depends on a 
special privilege per^^onal to the party himself, as in the case 
of Consuls, Ambassadors, and the like, in which case the 
party must appear and specially plead his privilege. How« 
ever, Brown v. Sliaw virtually followed Lawford v. Partridge^ 

But in the very same year that Brown v. Shaw was thus 
decided, the highest tribunal in England, the House of 
Lords, in Mackintosh v. the Lord Advocate (L. R., 2 App^ 
Ca. 41-78), when refusing td entertain an appeal from the 
Scotch High Court of Justiciary on the ground of their owa 
want of jurisdiction, gave the respondent his costs. The 
Queen's Bench afterwards, in Diss Urban Sanitary Authority 
v. Aldrich (L. R., 2 Q. B.D., 179) expressly followed this 



867 
▲ppMidiat X. 

decision of the House of Lords 5 and again in G* N. tSt 
L. W JV: IP. Joint Oommittee v. Tnett (L, R.. 2 Q. B. D., 
285) L. C J. Cockbarn laid down a doctrine entirely dif- 
ferent from that laid down by Harons Pollock and Brarowell 
in the case above cited. Lord Chief Justice Cockburn said^ 
** The respondent is obliged to come here to inform ns of 
the absence of jurisdiction ; for if he did not, the objection 
would not appear^ and judgment would be given against 
him. If he is obliu^ed to come here by the action of the 
appellants he is entitled to his costs. It is clear that, to 
some extent^ there is jurisdiction to hear and determine 
whether the appeal will lie or not. 1 am of opinion that, 
under these circumstances, there is jurisdiction to give 
costs.'* Thus exploding, I dare say, for ever in £ngland 
the other illogical and irrational doctrine* 

But as we are bound by our own Common Law, and not 
by the Common Law of England, reference must be made 
to it, and it speaks clearly and decidedly upon the point, 
"There is no doubt," says Voet, ''that a judge, whose 
jurisdiction is declined, can so far take cognisance of the 
suit as to condemn in costs a plaintiff rashly suing before 
him, when he thinks that his is not the proper tribunal ; 
for as he is the proper judge to decide the question of the 
competency of the tribunal, it follows that he can also con« 
demn a party in the costs incurred in respect of that ques- 
tion, although he is incompetent to decide the principal 
subject of the action {etsi in principali negotio incompetens 
sit), just as a judge can condemn an appeliauc in the costs of 
an appeal, if he decides that the appellant has abandoned his 
appeal". Ad Fand., 5. i. (dejudiciis) § 65. 

Against this weight of authority — our Common Law 

concurring with the most recent and authoritative decisions 

on the English Common Law— have been cited certain 

local decisions* of the Supreme Court, all very probably in 

ignorance of, or at all events without any express reference 

to, our own Common Law on the subject, and based appa** 

rently on the erroneous notion formerly entertained of the 

English Law on the subject ; for they ars all, I believe 

prior to the House of Lords and Queen's Bench cases ; and 

one of them, reported in Grenier, C. R. Reports for 1873 

- t ' 

* C. R. Ratnapura 5,789, Yanderstraaten p. 34 ; C, /?, Panadura 
16,129, C. R, Anuradhapura 954, Greoier for 1873 (0. R.) p. 20 ; C» 
R» Colombo 30,813. 3 S* C* ^* 23* 



368 

{Afmradhafura 9J4) expressly refers as an authority to tho 
now eiploUed case of Lawford v* Pcrtridge. This has been 
Of er-roled and superseded by the highest English tribonal* 
I do pot think the Supremo Court would now follow it in 
opposition to our owa Oonnaioa Law and the manifest 
reason and logic of the question as demonstrated both by 
Voet and Lord Chief Justice Cockbum, 

The decree will be that the plaintiff's suit in this Court 
be dismissed, and that he do pay defendant's costSb 

£NoTB — No appeal was taken against this judgment.] 



3G9 

7. 

(To yokammm ▼• Hanmamis, wiU p 175). 

D. C. Testy. CoiowUfo 3*567. 

The following Order and Jadgment of the District Coart 
(T. Berwick^ Judge) set oat the facts of this matter. 

iMTBBuKnrToftT Ordbr. 

loth Jooe, 187a* 

The question raised on the special case sahmitted to the 
Court iSf whether three of the children of two spouses who 
have died intestate are bound to collate a gift of land re* 
ceived from them, in order to share in the succession to the 
deceased's estate. It will be well to note, though I do not 
think it will affect this particular case, that two of the 
deYtsees are children of their father's first marriage and one 
of them the onlr child of his second marriage. The other 
heirs are children of the first marriage. The gift is by the 
common father and his second wife. 

There is no question of the law, that whatever is given 
bjT parents to children for their advancement and settlement 
in life, either on the occasion of their marriage or to set 
them up in trade or bosiness» must be collated, if the 
recipients desire to partake in the general sacoession* The 
disputed question in this case is, whether they must collate 
«^A«r gifts called "simple gifts,*' i. e., mon oh causam acceptae' 
The point has never before arisen, so far as I am aware, in 
onr Courts, and it is a much disputed point among our 
Civil Jurists. The weight of authority however seems to 
be in favour of the doctrine that collation of such gifts does 
not take place under the Civil Law. It is so stated by 
Burge, vol. iv. p. C8o ; and I find that this is the view 
taken without comment by Warnkoeaig, Inst^ § 654, and 
also in a recent and learned English work on the Modetn 
Roman Law by Tomkins and Jencken, p. 263. 

Van Leeuwen, in the Censura (3.13. § 16) states that this 
is the more commonly received opinion, although he adds 
in § 17 that the rule is different in Zeeland, Burgundy, &c ; 
and Voet expresses himself in the same sense as to the view 
entertained in Holland {nostris moribus) at the end of § 13 
of his great work, lib. xxxvii, tit, 6. 

The principal anthority with which I was pressed to the 
opposite conclusion was that of an American edition of an 
Boglish translation of Domat's great French work) § 2957. 



37a 

But v/henever Domat is cited it mast be rene^embered what 
his work really was, viz. an attempc to rearrange such doc" 
trines of the Roman Civil Law as had been adopted into 
the Fre(ncb system $ and I have referred to the original 
Authorities relied on by him^ and i am bound to say (though 
with aH the reverence that is due to his name) that if his 
words are correctly translated (and I have not access to a 
French edition) the texts cited by him appear not to war.» 
rant his wide proposition but to be limited to the cases of 
gifts on account of marriage* Indeed the Rubric both to 
the Novel (i 8> c. 6) and the chapter (Code, 6» c. 20) cited by 
him expressly and in terminis refer only to collatioos of 
dowry and donations on account of marriage. 

I should therefore have no hesitation in adopting what is 
8tat«d to be the better and more commonly received doctrine 
by the high authorities already cited* were it not for a pas* 
sage ill Van der Keessel, a work of the very highest valae 
here. In his Thesis 349 he lays down that, besides whaC 
has been given by the parents to the children on the occa^ 
sion of their marriage or in advancement of trade or the like, 
^* simple donations*' must also be collated, and adds " this 
oonstmction of the Art. %g of the Political Ordinance of 
Holland being rendered necessaty by the whole analogy of 
our law.'* And in Thesis 352 he mentions** what has cer.. 
tainly a very important bearing on this case-* that the fiast 
Indian Colonies are governed by the Political Ordinance of 
1580 and not by the Placaat of 1599- (For a good histori- 
cal account of these two Acts and the Provinces to which 
they respectively apply, see Grotius, book 2, c. a 8, and also 
Van Leeuwen's Comm-,.p* 2B9). 

But Vaa der Keessel unquestionably referring to collar 
tion with a surviving parent and not to collation among 
children where both parents are dead» his Thesis J^ therefore 
not in point to the present case. But if he means his 
doctrine to extend to a case like the present, then it must be 
observed that his words contain a very long advance on 
anything id his text, which is Orotius 2« a8* 14 ; and he 
cites as bis authority no judicial decision or commentator, 
but only certain collections of local customs 1 and I am 
inclioed therefore to think that his construction of the Ordi*- 
nance is entirely rested 00 his own view of the *' analog/*' 
(as he says) of the law» Bat both Grotius, in the very text 



371 
Appnftdix F. 

Van der Keessel is treatiog oo, cites the Political Ordinance 
and so does Yoet^ bat neither of these higb authorities ^uts 
any such construction «n it t on the contrary both Voet 
and Van Leeuwen give their opinion in a precisely opposite 
sense, and both admit i^hal the kocal laws of Zeeland (the 
custom of which Van der Keessel cites and rests on) are 
different. Van Zurck {(M Bat. Coliaik wfn Goederkn m 
•ffiefm^ $r I, n. 8 ; Ed. 1758» p. ai6) is express on the 9ab<« 
ject : Simple donaHei bviten de voorsckreve uitxetting, en 
iosten toi studie,. ten xy de vader anders gewUi keeft, konU idt 
geene collatie, maer in Zeeland weL In Holland kwnen dan 
0ok niet in coUaHie Brnilqfts'kosken, nog TilUgtiven, '* Sioif. 
pie donations, other than those aforesaid for advaneeoleat 
.in life (stariiag, in the world) do .not con >e into collation^ 
ualess the father has desired otherwise." Considering: then 
that this has been » much disputed <|aestion, if Vian der 
£eessers meaning is that children collate among themselires^. 
apart from collafeioa with the surviving parent on the divi» 
sion of the matrioKinial €ommunio bonarum^ not only donar 
tiims ob €ausam hot *' simple donations/' then I ao) not dis^ 
posed to look on his opinion, valuable as it is,, as amounting 
to more than that of an individual opposed to the general 
weight of opinion : and it appears to ipe that in a case of 
this kind I ought not to attempt to form any decision for 
myself, whieh among diverse opinions is the best, but 
ought simply to follow that of which it can be said, in the 
words of Van Leeuwen, eommunior et recepiior' est sentenlicn 
Following this rule^ I consider that if the gift in question is 
to be viewed as a donatio simplex it need not be collated. 

Whether it should be so considered is a cyiestion on which- 
1 havd not before me materials on which to form a sound 
opinion. If it was gfiven to tins three children who are the 
lieneficiflries out of sptcud pariialky and. a^eiioni ^^^n ^ 
■think it ought not to be cotkled« Especially so* if the 
other children were then msrried or provided for otherwise 
or were subse^ently provided for before the father's death. 
On the other hand there may be circumstances which would 
shew that the gift was really intended simply to be a provi- 
sion for them in anticipation oi what they would get at their 
father's death ; an which case it ougltt to be collated an4 
ceases to be a d9natia> simplex -y and I therefore wisb> th& 



372 
Appendix F. 

case to be set down for evidence on this point before judg- 
ment. 

I willy however, dispose at once of the ground on which 
it was raainly attempted to resist collation, v'^x. that the 
deed was not a deed of gift at all but executed for valuable 
consideration, viz. the discharge of a mortgage to which the 
land was subject. It was unquestionably a free and abso« 
lute gift of land subject to a mortgage, and I do not think 
that the personal covenant to discharge this debt in the 
least alters its character. There was at the least a gift of 
the differenee of value to the donor between the value o£ 
the land and the amount of the debt* Indeed the deed 
truly calls itself a gift, and contains the usual clause of 
acceptance of it as a *' gift.'* The only questions, therefore, 
are ist, one of fact— -was it a gift for advancement in antici- 
pation of inheritance, or was it a ^* simple gift,'' i. e., non ok 
causam i and 2nd> one of law, viz. must gifts of the latter 
class be collated* On the point of law I have stated the 
view which I think the Court will most safely adopt. On 
the point of fact the case will be set down for evidence. 
Costs to. stand over. 



9th September, 1872* 

It is stated by counsel that no evidence is forthcoming 
on either side— Judgment reserved. 



JUDOMBNT. 

loth Septeimber, 1872. 

It only remains, therefore, to decide whether, in the 
absence of all evidence, the presumption of law is in favonr 
of a gift (that is to say, a considerable gift) from parent to 
child being a donatio oh causam, (viz. for piitting out into 
life) or a simplex donatio, that is to say, as something extra 
to this mere purpose and from a special generosity or affec 
tion. I have not been able to find any authority in Roman 
Dutch Law which is directly to the point, but there is a 
great deal from which it may be inferred that such dona- 
tions are> in case of doubt, to be presumed to be for ad- 
vancement in life and therefore liable to be collated. Indeed 



373 
Appendix F. 

collation appears to he the rule or general proposition ^ and 
all other cases of considerable gifts which are not collated, 
mere exceptions grafted on the rule. Consequently the rale 
should be followed till authority be adduced for an excep« 
tion. Thus in the Censura the principal proposition is laid 
down in these words before the author proceeds to details : 
Huic collationi suhjecta sunt omnia quae a parentibus, de 
quorum • successione quaeriturt sunt prqfecta (pt. i. 3. 13 }; 
and prqfectitia bona omnia conferenda sunt .* adventitia non 
utique : the distinction taken by these terras being between 
gifts received from parents and those received from strangers, 
(Ibid § 16)5 and this distinction drawn by the later Civil 
Law between prqfectitia and adventitial which were both 
collated by the early Roman Law, reminds one of the uni- 
versality of the rate in its first origin and application, when 
the law was introduced for the very purpose of enabling 
the forisfamiliated or emancipated children, who had ac* 
quired separate property or adventitia^ to partake of an 
inheritance with those who remained partners in the com* 
mon family and in patema potestate, from which inheritance 
they would otherwise have been excluded. (See Qroenewe^ 
gen, ad God. vi« 20.) So by the Scotch Law, which is so 
parallel, not to say constantly identical, with Roman Dutch 
Law in matters of Civil Law origin, every provision given 
by father to child falls under collation (not including bow« 
ever the expense of suitable maintenance and education, nor 
inconsiderable presents) except where it appears (as by the 
provision being made on death-bed or otherwise) evidently 
to have been the grantor's intention that the child should 
have the provision as a praedpuum over and above his share 
of legitimum : Erskine's Inst. p. 940 : and this rule of 
Scotch Law is adapted if not adopted from the Justinian 
Code, Lib. 3 tit. a8 § 29, and based on it. I also find iu 
Zlirck's Batavian Code, in the place where the Dutch Law 
is particularized as to what expenses on the occasiou of 
marriage are included among those liable to be collated by 
the child, the following quotation, which I have been unable 
to trace to its source (as the reference is either not given or 
given at second band) but which no doubt justly states 
the Civil Law on the precise point there discussed, and by 
a very fair application of the same principle would apply to 
other than gifts or disbursements on the occasion of mar- 
riage— ^^muf prqfecta est^ ul in dubio haec omnia statuamus 



374 
jLp9«iidiJc Tm 

esse conferendat iafujFuam dotis pmriiauem coristitueniiat fuam* 
fHu non apparet alius parentis animus. Van Zurck, p. 217* v. 
Collatiel 

For these reasons I think that the gift which is the sub* 
ject of the special case should be collated* and it is ordered 
accordingly. Costs of the special case and arguments to be 
paid out of the estate. 

[NoTE—No appeal was taken against this judgment]. 



\ 



375 

(To fir parte Robertson, ante p 167-) 

D< C. \ S M Oieyappa Chetty. 
Colombo, > V 



nbo, > 

16. J /?. JIf. c. 



67>ft 16. '^ /?. Jlf. C* Muttayak Chetty^ 

The facts sufficiently appear from the judgments of the 
Court below and of the Appellate Court. 

(rst September 1875). Berwick, D J.— Mr. Layard 
firged mainly two points on behalf of his client. The first 
being his right to hare a postponement of the hearing to 
enable him to subpoena witnesses to prove that the defend- 
ant himself had talcen the copy of the Rule to the Fiscal's 
oifice and that therefore the process must (by inference) 
have been served upon him, and that the witnesses examined 
on the 27th must therefore have committed perjury : and 
the second being that the present proceedings are irregular. 

On the first point be urged that his client is takea by 
surprise by the rule of the 27th instant whereby the pro** 
ceedings subsequent to the filing of the libel were quashed 
and the plaintiff committed to answer for contempt, inas 
much as on the 27 ih and until the conclusion of the hear* 
ing on that day he bad no no ice that he would have to 
answer for a contempt, and had only appeared to answer the 
allegations of non^service of process contained in the de^ 
feo<iant*s affidavit of 30th June, and to prosecute his own 
motion for judgment for default of appearance ; and that 
that is a distinct question from the question of contemptf 
which he ought now to be allowed to disprove by calling 
witnesses to contradict the evidence given for the defend-* 
ant on the 27th instaat, on which the proceedings wgre 
ordered to be quashed and on which he is now charged 
with contempt. It is quite true that the questions whether 
he should have judgment for default of defendant's appear* 
ance and whether he should be prosecuted for contempt are 
distinct questions but they involve one and the same issues 
of fact, which came on for hearing atid evidence on both 
sides and trial and decision on the 27 th instant. The defends 
ant then called evidence which clearly proved that neither 
the summons nor the rule had been served on the defend* 
ant, and the plaintiff called no evidence to contradict that* 
though the defendant had filed his list of witnesses so far back 
as 3oih June. The issue of fact being identical and having 



376 
Appendix CK 

been solemnly tried and adjadioated oo upon full trial and 
examination of witnesses and their cross examination by 
by plaintiff's proctor* the issue roust be taken as tes judicata^ 
and the Court thinks that the plaintiff is not no«r entitled 
to reopen it. Still injavorem libertalis the Court would be 
disposed to indulge the plaiatiff if it had the slightest reason 
to think it even possible that the ends of justice would be 
thereby advanced. But everything points exactly the other 
way. In the first place the circumstances that he did not 
call his witnesses on the 37th instant and never filed any 
list during the two months the matter was standing for trial 
makes it highly improbable that honest testimony of the 
kind suggested can be produced. In the next place, when 
the plaintiff was committed on the 27th. he was allowed till 
the 30th to shew cause, and yet neither tendered affidavit 
nor asked for subpoenas. Again on the 30th the matter 
was allowed on the application of his Counsel to stand over 
for another two days and yet no affidavits from the witnesses 
are filed nor steps taken about the witnesses for their 
attendance to.day. To-day his Counsel states that to-ddy 
(since the case was first called on in the evening) his wit. 
nesses have been asked by his proctor Mr. Obeyesekere to 
make affidavits to this effect: that defendant was seen at the 
FiscaPs ofifice with the copy of rule (inferring service) but 
that his witnesses have refused to do so : and also refuse 
to come to Court unless forced by subpoena. The circum- 
Stances that the witnesses would not make voluntary affi« 
davits to that effect is pretty nearly conclusive that they are 
unable honestly to do so. Further his Counsel has informed 
the Court that it was almost so late as ^ past 3 p.m- 
to day or yesterday, (I am uncertain which day was stated) 
that the witnesses were asked to swear, and <t is not sug- 
gested that the plaintiff was aware of their ability (if they 
be honestly able) to depose to such and such an effect long 
before. There is absolutely nothing to shew this Court 
either that these witnesses could not have been called on 
the 37th or that this plaintiff did not have knowledge till 
now of what they could depose to. As already said, and had 
the plaintiff any reason to believe that the proposed witnesses 
were in a position to prove what he statedi I would adjourn 
this matter that the subpoenas might be issued to them, 
even though affidavits would be the more proper mode of 
purging the contempt charf^ed* Under these circumstances 
I think I went as far as I could go in the interests of 



377 
ikppindiz Cb 

jaatioe in iatimatiog my willingness to adjoara the hear- 
ing if Mr. Obeyesekere ooold pat in a precise affidavit and 
motion, of which I aaggested the terms as follows, which I 
drafted, adapting them to the facts alleged for plaintiff a% 
the bar: 

** That from oonversations he has had preyioasly with A» 
B and C he has reason to believe and does believe that they 
are in a position to give credible evidence of facts which 
woold shew the evidence given oa the a7th ultimo by D, E 
and F to have been false, perjared. and which could purge 
his client of the conteoipt charged against him :— and that 
the said A» B and C decline to make affidavit thereof^ and 
that he has reason to believe that such refusal is vexatious 
and obstructive of justice. Therefore prays that the said 
A^ B and C be cited and compelled to give the evidence in 
open Court which they decline to give voluntarily by aflL. 
davit" 

Mr. Obeyesekere would not make such an affidavit and the 
circumstances prove that there is not the slightest reason to 
anticipate that the suggested witnesses either could or would 
give the evidence required. There was therefore no ground 
whatever fot an indulgence to which the plaintifiE had no 
legal claim and which would only have been a farce and 
hardly consistent with the decency due to legal proceedings. 
And it is preposterous to say that the plaintiff has been taken 
by surprise in any respect whatever. 

The second matter urged was that the proceecyngs were 
irregular inasmuch as they were not grounded on an affi^ 
davit charging plaintiff with conteoipt. The plaintiff had 
the return of the Fiscal stating that service had been made 
on a person " pointed out by a man on behalf of the plain* 
lift** 9 and the evidence taken in his presence after due notice^ 
on the a 7 thy and the order of that date, as well as the de- 
fendant's affidavit of 30th June> and I do not think that 
anything more was necessary. 

The last objection taken by his Counsel was that there 
was nothing to connect plaintiff with the " man" who 
pointed out the party as defendant. It is sufficient in res* 
pect to this defence to say that besides the Fiscal's return* 
and besides the fact that no one else but the plaintiff could 
have any interest in the commission of the fraud, we have 
the broad fact that he himself moved to take the bene6t of 
the frauds and that the whole matter came before the Court 



878 
Appendiit O. 

on his own Proctor's motion for judgment on the false and 
frandolent service. 

The Court has not the slightest doubt that the false ser- 
vice was made by the procuraoce of the plaioti£F> and ad« 
judges the plaintiff to have been guilty of a high contempt 
of Court and of the administration of justice in abasing the 
process of this Court by wilfully and falsely procuring a 
summons, and rale for judgment for default of appearance, 
to be served on the wrong party as defendant, with intent 
to deceive the Court, defraud the defendant* and pervert 
the course of justice. 

In determining the punishment, the Court has in view 
that it is inundated with motions to open up judgment or 
avoid rule for judgment being made absolute, on the ground 
of false returns of service on the wrong party : and that 
this has become—notably among the chetties — one of the 
most crying curses of the country, and is rapidly converting 
the Courts of Justice into temples of injustice and fraud : 
that it is therefore necessary to impose such a punishment 
as may tend to check the alarming progress of this kind of 
fraud ; and to adapt the nature of the punishment to the 
nature of the offence : to punish the party convicted in his 
purse, seeing that greed was the motive of the offence ; and 
to make the punishment also disgraceful to him, as the crime 
is one of the most disgraceful character* He is therefore 
sentenced to be imprisoned for the term of nine months and 
to pay forthwith into Court for the use of Her Majesty a 
fine of one thousand rupees, and to be further imprisoned 
with hard labour till the whole of the fine be paid, provided 
that such further imprisonment is not to exceed the term of 
twelve months in addition to the former term of nine 
months* 

In appeal by the plaintiff, the case was argued before 
Catlbt and DiikS, JJ. by Ferdinands {Layard with him) 
for the appellant, and Grenier for the respondent* 

(ist October, 1875). Their lordships affirmed the judg- 
ment of the Court below save as to the imposition ot impri- 
sonment at hard labour in default of payment of the fine, 
and directed the Court below to proceed as provided by 
sect. 5 of Ordinance 5 of 1855, in case the fine was not 
paid as directed. The judgment proceeded as follows : 



S79 
Jgppendiz Q* 

The appellant complains that his motion for subpoenas 
to two of his witnesses was improperly rejected by tha 
District Court. This motion was made on the ist Septem* 
ber» two months after the appellant had notice of the nature 
of the proceedings against him. The- defendant's affidavit^ 
on which the proceedings are founded^ was filed on the 
joth jnne, and the case came on for hearing on the 37tb 
August, on which day the appellant was committed to be 
brought up on the 30th. On the 30th the hearing was 
adjourned to the ist September on the application of the 
appellant^s Counsel, so that the appellant lias no reason to 
complain that the proceedings were hurried, and that he 
bad no time to subpcena witnesses. Mr. Obeyesekere in his 
affidavit says that he was instructed by two persons to dtaw 
an affidavit to the effect that Muttaya Chetty,. during the 
latter end of June last, came to the Fiscal's office with a 
translation of the rule served on him in this case. A draft 
affidavit is produced, and it is alleged that the two persons 
named in it have refused to come to the District Cionrt to 
swear ta it withoat being daty subpcened. This- seems to. 
be a mere excuse to avoid swearing the affidavitt which 
could have been sworn to befose any Justice of the Peace. 
Every safeguard to which a person charged with contempt 
b entitled appears to us to have been observed; and in view 
of the serious nature of the offence disclosed in this case*, 
and its prevalence in this' Island,, we do not think the 
punishment too severe. 



380 
Appendix 9!. 



(To Ex parte Kerr^ ante p 278). 

D. C. -J H. 5". Saunders ^ Co. 
Colombo, ? V. 

71,450. i H. W. Banner. 

** Dead^stock" -^Bungalow furnUure^^Mortgage* 



(3rd July 1879). ^* Berwick, D. J-— I have had to 
delaj giving judgmeot in this case until I should be farnish* 
ed with a copy of the deed of sale under which Oie plain* 
tiff purchased the estate mentioned in the pleadings, and 
this I only received two days ago. This document marked 
A is put in by consent. The amended Libel states the 
.plaintiff purchased the Derry Clare Estate from the defend- 
ant and claims the value of certain furniture then in the 
Bungalow of the said estate as having passed under the 
deed of sale. * It also alleges the usage that the *' ordinary" 
furniture in an Estate Bungalow passes with the estate. 
.The defendant does not claim the furniture in question i 
be denies that he sold it to the plaintiff, denies the alleged 
usage, and alleges "that it was tlie personal property of his 
son who had been his superintendent of the Estate and who 
died there, as it would appear, shortly before the sale. 

According to the terms of the Deed of sale the defendant 
sold "all the coffee Estate called Derry Clare bounded^' 

" together with all the buildings^ machinery, fixtores, 

tools, implements, live and dead stock, standing thereon 
or belonging thereto." There is no express mention of 
Bungalow furniture in the Deed and there does not appear 
to have been any express agreement in any form respect, 
ingit. 

I think all the ordinary and necessary furniture kept in 
the Bstate Bungalow by the proprietor for the use of the 
superintendent must be eon s idcFc d kept for the use of, and 
for the furtherance of the cultivation and management of, 
the Estate and must pass with it as a part of the "dead stock 
standing thereon*' or " belonging thereto''; but that it passes 
in virtue of these terms in the deed, and without any regard 
to any usage. The usage of which evidence has been given 
only confirms the construction put upon these terms as that 
ordinarily put on them by the purchasers and vendors of 
coffee estates 3 but this contraction of these terms is I think 



381 
Appendix S. 

the natural and rational construction, and mast stand indepen- 
dently o{ any usage. Obviously, ordinarily (though perhaps 
not invariably) a bungalow Jor the residence of the Superin* 
tendent is essential to the proper management af a Coffee Estate; 
and so is a reasonable amount of what is understood by 
*• ordinary" furniture. And whatever ,** ordinary" furniture 
is brought into the Estate by tbe proprietor for the neces^ 
sary use of his superintendent is as much brought there for 
Che use and benefit of the estate as any purely agricultural 
implements, machinery, or cattle- A distinction may of 
<K>arse have sometimes to be drawn between ordinary furni^ 
tare absolutely necessary for the use of the superiotendenf^ 
that is to say for the use of the estate, and any articles of 
iuzury-— say, for example* a piano, which the proprietor may 
choose to send to his superintendent from either personal 
mr liberal considerations, and which may be found on the 
4}nngaIow at the time of sale. But it is impossible to hold 
that the vendor is bound to make good to his vendee any- 
thing not on or belonging to the estate at the time of the 
^le, and still more impossible to hold that he is bound to 
'make op to his vendee the value of any furniture which did 
not belong to himself lor the use of the Estate, but which 
happened merely to be in the bungalow at the time of salot 
and was the private property of the superintendent or any 
one else- And this brings me to the only real poitit in this 
case which is a pure question of fact, namely, Was the 
the furniture in question the property of the defendant and 
also placed there for the sole use and benefit of th^ estate, or 
was it the personal and private . property of his son and 
Superintendent ^ The evidence does not afiEord sufficient 
materials to enable me to decide this question with any 
degree of certainty. And the mere allegation in the answer 
that it was the property of the son unaccompanied by any 
oath or direct evidence of any 1:ind has no legal weight. It 
must be remembered, too, that the defendant is out of the 
Island and does not appear to have ever been in it. He is 
represented here by an Attorney, a man of business, and 
it does not appear that either the defendant himself or his 
Attorney is at present in possession of any data on which 
he can have any exact knowledge whether the farniture had 
been purchased and charged against the estate (that is- 
against himself) or not. The plea in question has therefore 
no other &igaificaace morally as well as legally than that of 



882 
AypMidir K. 

throwing on plaintiff the burden of establishinji^ a doabtfal 
question. In the absence of better evidence I shall have to 
be guided by the most probable presumptions. It may fair« 
ly be assumed from what has been said of young Mr* 
Banner's habits and position that he would surround him- 
self with articles of luxury for his purely personal use and 
enioyment» which hid no relation to the needs of the estate^ 
and which had been purchased or acquired by himself or 
given to him by his father for his own personal nse. But 
in the absence of positive evidence either way I think it 
must also be presumed^ especially in view of the evidence 
as to what is usually done in such ca8es» that the bungalow 
contained a certain amount of furniture supplied by the pro. 
prietor for use of whoever might happen to be there as super* 
intendent at the time — supplied at the proprietor's eost for 
the use of the estate — and that upon the whole this presump* 
tion overrides any presumption arisiog from the aegativa 
evidence that as yet no entry has been found in the estate 
accounts of any charge against the estate on this account. 
That there was furniture in the bungalow of an ordinary 
character such as is generally supplied for the «se of Estates 
has not been questioned. All things considered,. I think 
the amount claimed for this, RS..650, is reasonable. Plain-< 
tiff will therefore have judgment for this sum and any costs 
of suit. 



i 



383 

j'gth and 26th bctoifer, 1883. 
Present— Clarbncb and Dias, J J. 



D. C. \ S. A. G. SiLVA 

i3>73o. i M. Sarah Hamt. 

Registration'-^ Priority --Ordinance 8 of 1863, section 39-^ 
Horiflicting sales ly the Fiscal of the same land — Brand -^ 
Mortgage created pending seizure — Ordinance 4 of i86jy sec* 
iion 42. 

The defendant, on 14^1 September i88o» bought a piece of land at 
a. sale in execution of a money judgment recovered by him against S., 
and obtained a conveyance from the Fiscal on 21st February 1882, 
which was registered on i ith March following. Pending seizure under 
defendant's writ, S. mortgaged ttie land to plaintiff. Plaintiff put 
this bond ia suit on 3rd December 1880, obtained a simple money 
judgment on it, had the land sold in execution on 17th February 
188 1, and purchased it himself. Plaintiff obtained his conveyance 
from the Fiscal on 24th February 1882. and registered it on the 27th. 
Plaintiff now sought to be quieted in possession against (defendant, 
who set up her own title. 

Beli^ that though plaintiff's mortgage was invalid by the operation 
^f section 42 of the PUcats Ordinance^ yet his money judgment was not 
"affected thereby. 

Held also, that in the absence of any proof of fraud, plaintiffs con- 
veyance prevailed, by virtue of section 39 of Ordinance 8 of 1863, and 
he was entitled to the decree prayed for. 

The plaintiff in tbis case appealed against a judgment of 
the District Court (F. J. de Liverat Judge) nonsuiting him 
M^ith costs on the ground that the sale to plaintiff, under 
a mere money decree* of the land which had previously been 
sold to the defendant, did not give plaintiff a superior 
title. The facts sufficiently appear in the judgment of 
Clarbncb, J. 

VanLangenherg for the plaintiff, appellant. 
Domhorst for the defendant, respondent. 

Siripina v* Tikiria (i) was referred to in the argument. 

Cur. adv. vult* 

(2i6ih October). Clabbncb, J.— The land in question 
in this action was the property of one Gregoris SUva* 

(1) I S.C. Ct 84. 



384 

On the 14th Aagast 1880 it was seized ander a writ issued 
agaiost Gregoris by present defendant. On the 8th Sep- 
tember following, the land being still under seizare> Silva 
purported to mortgage the land to present plaintiff. The 
land was sold ander defendant's writ on 14th September 
and purchased by defendant, but for some reason which 
does not appear defendant did not get her conveyance from 
the Fiscal until 2i8t February 1882. Meanwhile, plaintiff 
put his mortgage bond in suit on 3rd December 1880, and 
on the 17th December 1880 obtained judgment by default ; 
not, howeveri a decree declaring the laid specially bound 
or executable, but a simple judgment for a sum of money. 
Under this judgment plaintiff had the land in question sold 
by the Fiscal on the 17th February i88l. Plaintiff him- 
self purchased and got his Fiscal's conveyance on the 24tli 
Febiuary idSa- Plaintiff's conveyance was registered oa 
the 27th February i88», and defendant's on the nth 
March following. Plaintiff now claims to be quieted ia 
possession as against the defendant* who sets up her owa 
title against plaintiff ; and the sole question contested 
between the par ies is, which title is to prevail P No issue 
is raised by either party as to the actual cause of action ia 
the shape of ouster or trespass, nor do the pleadings raise 
any issue as to the factum of either Fiscal*s sale. Plaintiff'js 
mortgage was invalid by the operation ot the 42nd section 
of the Fiscals Ordinance* but that does not affect plaintiff's 
judgment lor a sum of money- Having got a judgment ia 
December j 880 against Silva for a sum of money, plain tifiE 
had a right to levy on Silva's property, and the Fiscal sell. 
ir.g under his writ any property ol Silva s would make a 
good title to the purchaser. But when the Fiscal purport, 
ed to sell this land in February 1881 under plaintiff's judg<* 
menty the land had in fact been already sold in September 
1880 to the defendant. Plaiotiff's conveyance therefore 
passes nothing to him, unless it derives effect from the 
RegislrcUion Ordinance- But in our opinion the effect of the 
39th section of the Ordinance is to sink defendant's prior 
purchas^y and thereby give effect to plaintiff's. When an 
owner of land conveys it to A for value, and subsequently 
executes another conveyance of the same land in favour of 
B also for value, it is true at the date of the second con^ 
veyanee the owner has nothing left in him to convey, hut 
by the operation of the Ordinance fi's conveyance overrides 



885 

A*a if registered before it. Unless the Ordinance has this 
effect, it has none at all, and this seems the actual construc- 
tion of the enactment. We can see no difference in prin« 
ciple between a conveyance executed by the land owner in 
propridpefsondt and one executed for him by the Fiscal. It 
therefore appears to us in the absence of, at any rate, any 
proof of fraud, that plaintiff's conveyance prevails, and that 
he is entitled to the decree for which he asks. 

There must be a declaration of title in plaintiff's favour 
as prayed for with a decree quieting him in possession^ and 
defendant must pay all costs in both Courts* 

DiAS, J., concurred. 

Set aside- 

Proctor for plaint ifiF, H. Ball. 

Proctor for defendant, IP, N* Rajepakse* 



DIGEST. 



Accomplice 

See Yagbant, 2. 

Aecmal of cause of action 

See Fiscal, 5, 

Action 

See Fbacticb, 3. 
-— Administbatiok. 

Administration 

Admmiatration, neceiiiiy far*^Aetion by tur- 
vvoi/ng epouae to recover movedblea belonging to 
the commtimty'^Mvnor chUd, rights of. 

In an aotion by a husband to reoover certain 
vioveablea that belonged to the eommonity be- 
tween himself and his deceased wife, whidi 
property the defendant detained,, the defendant 
pleaded non debimab and that the plaintiff could 
not recover without obtaining administration to 
his wife's cist&te ; there being also issue of the 
marriage. 

HMi revennng the decision of the Oonrtf 
below, that plaintiff could recover the half to 
which he wi» himself entitled, and should be 
allowed time to obtain administration or to have 
Mmself appointed guardian, ad K^evft of his minor 
child. 

D. G. Matara, 32,371. Samarawera y. De Siha 83 



See Fbactigs, 4. 
Adoption 

See KAjn)Y4» Law. 

AdTOcate. admiwiioii of» aa Proctor 

jSf^e C&BA9T. 



ii DIGEST. 

Aflniiation 

8ee Evidence, 1. 
— Evidence, 2. 

See OONTEMFT OF GOVKT. 
— POSSE88QBT ACTION. 

AltematiTe oluurges 
See Yagjiant, 2. 
Aniinus fturandi 

See TuEPT. 

Appeal 

See PsACTicx, 2, 

AppealaUa order 

See Secubitt to tSEF the peace* 
Jirrack 

Arrcbdc 'Ordinance, 1844f— Breach ofeeeUen^d 
•^Proof ofpoeeeseion af Uc&iMe^''-^dm(mee 5 of 
1881» eeetiwi 3. 

Upon a construction of section 3 of Ordinftnce 
l!9o. 5 of 1881, 

HdA, that the word " condition" in this section 
might be constmed to include the possession of 
' the license contemplated by section 26 of the 
Arrack Ordinimce, 1844; ana accordingly 

HM, that the section under construction cast 
the burden of proving the poBsession of such 
license on the defendant. 

P. D. Panadura^ 4,275. Foneeka ▼ Perera ••• 62 

Aseaidt 

l.-^ABBoult on Policeman in the execution of hds 
duty-^Abeenee of count for Assa/idt at Common 
La/vO'^CowoiGtion of AneiM dt Common Lom, 

The defendants were indicted for cutting and 
wounding two polioemen while in the execution 
of their duty. The jury, under the Judge's 
direction, found that, (1) u the policemen were 
acting in the execution of their duty, the 1st de- 
fendimtwas guilty on the indictment, and the 






B I G £ S T. lU 

Assault— conAcT. 

'2ad^ drdy 5th and 8th dafendants were gail^y o£ ^ 
assault and battery on a police constable in the 
execution of his duty, and 4thy 6th and 7th d(3- 
fendants were not guilty ; but (2) if the police- 
men were not acting in the lawful execution of 
their duty, the 1st defendant was guilty of cut- 
ting and woundingj and the rest were not guilty. 

Held, that, it being admitted at the bar that 
the policemen could not be regarded as having 
been in the lawful execution of their duty, the 
oonvibtion of assault at Common. Law could not 
be sustained. 

Tke Queen y. JJrcmelia ..« 1 

2.— ^MflWiS on 'police offioer in the iBxecution ofKia 
didy — Ordinance 11 of 1868, sect, 165^— TTarrow^' 
of arrest, description, of offence in^^Oonviction of 
assault at Common Law, 

Where a warrant of arrest against an accused 
party gaye the names of. the complaining and 
accused parties,, and stated the charge to be 
" threatening to db bodily harm" : 

Held (per Db Wet, A. G. J., and Dus, J*) that 
the warrant sufficiently described a criminal of • 
fenop. 

Hdd^BO {per GjJiBXSC^ and "Dias, J^ follow- 
ing P. a Kahdara 64^88 (4 S,O.C„ 117)) that 
upon a charge of assaulting a.polifie officer in the 
execution of his duty,. in breach of section 165 of 

the AdwA/rdstration of Justice Ordm^nce, 1868, ' 

the accused could be convicted of an assault at \ 

Common Law. i 

P. C: Colombo, 6,310. 8eifieoiratne v. Thegia ' 

Singho^.,, ... ... ... ..« ..« ..« 24^ j 

^.•-^Besistvng police officer in eesecution of h4s d/uty 
'^Ordina/nce 16 o/ 1865, sect, 7b--^0rainarhce 18 
o/1861,8ec<. 13 — Presence of compladnam,t at triaX 
•^Usvng indecent la/ngua^e in the street. 

Where defendant was charged by an Inspector 
of Police with resisting a police constable in <±t& 
execution of his duty. 

Held, that the presence of the constable at the 
trial was a presence of the complainant within • 

the meaning of sect. 13 of Ordinance No. 18 of 
1861. 

The evidence showing that the duty the coUi- 
stable was engaged in at the time of .the resis- 
tance was the arresting of one Jnsa,. who was 



I 






iv B I G E S t: 

Assault— con^d. 

brawling in the street and refused to desist at 
request of the constable, 
Reld, that, apart from any special statutory 

Jower, the constable was justified in arresting 
usa and taking him into ma custody. 

R a Kcgombo, 51»75e. Keith Y.FetMmdQ,., 28S 

AssessmAMt for Police taat 

A»$0$mi/9eftki fi>r PoUw iasB, Section to-'^di' 
na/nce 6 of 1867, sect, 1 — ikndtaiionr^NoUeB of 
acUoiv^Ordmcmee 17 of 1865» sect, 177. 

Plaintiff, on 1st March 1882, received notice 
that the Municipal Council of Kandy, the defend- 
ant, had assessed plaintiff's house as of the 
annual value of Bs. 900, for the purposes of the 
tax for maintaining the Police in the town. On 
3rd Maxoh, and again on 7th and 2^rd Aug^t, 
1882, the plaintiff protested against this assess- 
ment as excessive ; and on 19th September was 
informed that the assessment had been reduced to 
Bs, 800. On 3rd October l682, plaintiff brought 
the present action, praying that the assessment 
might be reduced to Bs. 6W>, the ii^l value of the 
house, 

Seld (afimling the decision of the Oourt be- 
low), that the action was not maintainable, no 
notice of action having been given to the def en-» 
dant, as reqttired by section 17/ of the Mwmm^aZ 
OounoUs Ordmcnue, 1865. 

HeZd also, that the present action, embodying 
the objection to the assessment, wiM barred by 
section 1 of Ordinance 5 of 1867, not having been 
commenced within 15 days of . the receipt of 
notice of assessment. 

0. B. Kandy, 20,351. WrigU v. Tks Muniei- 
]^dl Oov/Mdl of Kand/y « 260 

See Gsowk, 1. 

Assignee 

See Ihsolvbnct, 2. 

— Insolybncy, 3. 

Assignuent 

See Mo&TeiOE, 1. 

— MOUtGAOB, 3. 

mm Ti&CAJCf 4. 



Autrefois acquit 

See Maintenance. 
Bond 

1 ,-^B<md — Prescription. 

The plaintiff sued on an instrament which, 
after acknowledging the receipt of a sum of 
money, provided for the recovery of it with in- 
terest in case of default of payment. The par- 
ties, in the body ci the instrument, called it a 
"money debt bond," "this bond," "this unpro- 
fessional bond" ; it bore the stamp proper to a 
bond for the amount mentioned, and professed 
to create a general mortgage over all the pro- 
perty of the obligors. Plea, prescttption. 

Held, that this instrument was not a " bond.*' 
Held also, that regard being had to the inten- 
tion of the parties, as evidenced by the use of a 
bond-stamp and by other circumstances, it would 
be inequitable to allow the defendants to set up 
the shorter term of prescription as for a promis- 
sory note. 

Observations on the requisites to constitute a 
" bond" in this country. 

C. B. Batticaloa, 16,209. Kwnaravaloe y. 
Mohiddn Ba/iva 297 

2. — Bond-^Mortgager^oint cmd several UahiUty'-^ 
Co-ohligee»~~Beeovery of share of one of the ooli' 
gees. 

Where a mortgage bond, purporting to secure 
a sum of Bs. 280 to four mortgagees, provided 
that in failure of payment " from this mortgage 
" and from the heirs and assigns of me the said 
" debtor the said principal and interest due the 
" said four creditors or one of them or any per- 
** son assigned and authorized by the said four 
" persons are or is empowered to recover in 
" luir' ; and plaintiff as the assignee of one ot 
the creditors sued to recover Bs. 70 as the share 
dne to the said creditor ; ) 

Held, that the plaintiff as representing one of 
the four creditors was entitled to recover the full 
amount of the bond, and was therefore clearly 
entitled to recover one fourth. 

0. B. Kandy, 21,032. Hawadia v, 8(vrana ... 313 

Bond to Fiscal 

Bee FifiCAL, 4. 



Burden of proof 

8ee Akback. 

Bye-law 

Bye-loAjOf MunicipaXf dealing with same tuhied 
matter as earlier Ordinance — Ordinance No. lo of 
1862—By64a/w wnder Ovdma/nce No. 17 o/1865. 

Where an Ordinance of 1862 madia it an offence- 
punishable with a fine of Bs. 50 to obstruct cer- 
tain officers in the execution of their duty in con> 
nection with the abatement of nuisances, and a 
bye-law made by a Municipal Council under an 
Ordinance of 18^ entitled its officers to the 
protection accorded by the Ordinance of 1862 to 
the first-mentioned omcers, and made resistance 
to them in the exercise of their duty^ punishable* 
with a fine of Bs. 20 ; 

Held, that a charge of resisting an inspector 
appointed by the Municipal Council, while m the- 
exercise o^ his doty, was rightly laid undisr the 
Ordinance of 1862. 

B. M. Kandy, 1^,820. Frarudke Y..Meya Lehhe.. . 97" 
See Local Boaadv 

Cattle treapasv 

CaMle damage feaaarU-^Gustody ofeaJttls seized 
—Publicum Stabulum — A^ortionment of dama^ 
ges. 

A herd of plaintiff's cattle had on several occa- 
sions trespassed on def endantV land and done 
damage, and one head of this herd was seized 
damag^^ feasant and detained by defendant. 
Plaintiff, having tendered Bs. 2.50 (as the amount 
of damage done on the day of seizure by the 
animal seized), which was accepted as part pay- 
ment and the cow notj:*eleased, sued to recover 
his animal. Defendaot claimed right to detain it 
till payment o£ the full amount of damages. 

Held, that there was nxy p^UtmWf stahuVukm, or 
public pound, in Ceylon, and that defendant was 
entitled to detain tne trespassing cattle in his 
own custodiy. 

Held also, that it was for the plaintiff,, as the 
wrong-doer, to apportion the damages among the 
several head of trespassing cattle ; and that, 
proof on this point being wanting, everything 
would be presumed against him. 

C. B. Kandy, 19,410. 8angera/valo v. Chray,,, 11 



DIGEST. VU 

f^rbifteate in the form B. 

8ee Insoltbnct, 1. 

Certificate of Queen's Advocate 

See JuBi&DiCTiON, 3. 
CeaaSson of Action 

See Psi2k;ipal anb Subett, 1. 
Cliild of tender years as witness 

See Evidence, 1, 
dab 

1.— CZt*&--Bi<j'fei of Seerdary to represent in Court. 

Plaintiff sued for wages for work and labour 
done for the defendant, a Club, and served sum- 
mons upon the Club's Secretary ; 

Held, that the Colombo Club was not author- 
ised to sue or be sued by any corporate name, 
and that plaintiff's right of action, if any, was 
against the mdividual persons who had contract- 
ed the debt. 

0. R. Colombo, 32,332. Peris v. The Colombo 
Club ,.. «.. ... ... ... ... ... 100 

2. — Club , OfCtion agcdnst, for goods sv/ppUed^^Liar 
biUty of Secretary to be sued-^PracUce^'Execu^ 
tion, 

A Club is not a partnership, neither is it a 
corporation capable of being sued through the 
representation of anv officer or member of its 
body. The remedy ot a tradesman who has sup- 
plied goods to the Club is simply an aotioa 
against those persons who have contracted with 
him ; and whatever judgment he may obtain is 
enforceable against those persons and their pro- 
perty. 

Where the defendants were C, Secretary of 
the N. £. Club, three other persons named, '' and 
others members of the said Club," and judgment 
was entered against C. with a direction that it 
should be enforced only against the conmion pro- 
perty of the Club ; 

Meld, that this judgment was an absurdity, 
and that a judgment against C. was legally 
leviable on C.'sown property and on nothing 
else. 

C. B. Nuwara Eliya, 8,387. Cotton v. Camp- 
oeifv ,ii «•« ,11 ••« • tt\ vit •«• vUi7 



vili DIGBST. 

Coifee estate 

See Mortgage, 5. 

— Mortgage, 7. 

« 

Coin Ordinance 

Coin Ordinance, No. h o/1857, sects, 12 and 
13 — Conviction under both section9''^8eniencs. 

The first count of an indiotment oharaed the 
prisoDer, in the words of section 12 of the Coin 
OrdinoMce, 1867, with uttering 6 cbuntorloit 
coins. The second count charged him, also in 
words of that section, with uttering 6 counterfeit 
coins while having 28 other such coins in his 
possession. The third count, in th^ words of 
section 13, charged a possession of 28 such 
counterfeit coins with intent to utter. The jury 
having convicted the prisoner on all three counts, 
and the Conrt having sentenced him to impri- 
sonment at hard labour for two years as for the 
conviction under the second count ; 

Held, upon a case reserved, that th^ offences 
charged by the first and third counts were in- 
cluded in that cliarged by the second count, and 
that no further sentence should pass as for the 
conviction upon the first and third counts. 

The Queen Y, Hea&rick „. .„. .,, ,».. 143 
Collation 

See Inheritance. 
Commencement of proseontion 

See Prosecution, 1. 
Commercial matters 

See Jurisdiction, 4. 
Commission 

See Fiscix, 2. 
Committal 

See Contempt op Court. 
Common Ziavr 

See Assault, 1. 

— Assault, 2» 
*— Fiscal, #. 



Digest* ix 

Community ^i goods 

Page 
See Administration. 
— Husband and Wepe. 

Complauant, nominal 

See Assault, 3. 
Complainant's presence at trial 

See Assault, 3. 
Compounding offence 

See Consideeation. 

Condictio indebiti 

Condictio indebiti — Money paid under mistake 
of law — Coats — **PutttAig cases in evidence." 

S,, the owner of a house which he had mort- 
gaged to A., died, having by his will (of which 
defendant was executor) bequeathed a life-inter- 
est in the house to H. Plaintiff entered into 
occupation of the house as lessee of H. A. ob- 
tained judgment on his mortgage against defend- 
ant as executor, and on 8th March 1879 sold the 
house in execution. It was bought by J., who 
shortly afterwards died. In June 1879 (plaintiff's 
lease expiring on 3l8t July) defendant, as execu- 
tor, demanded of plaintiff Bs. 55 as rent for 
April and May, threatening legal proceedings. 
Plaintiff paid. Plaintiff was afterwards sued for 
the same amount, in respect of the same occu- 
pation, by J.'s represent^atives, and pleaded his 
' payment to the executor, but was condemned to 
pay the amount and costs. Plaintiff now sought 
to recover from defendant the 18i8. 66 pltus the 
costs incurred in the action by J.'s representa- 
tives. 

Held, reversing the decisi^m^ the Court be- 
low, that plaintiff (having p JPiritl^f ull know- 
ledge of the faces, and if anywing upon a mis- 
taken view of the law) could ftot* reaver either 
the Es. 55 or the costs of the ioridibr action. 

Observations on the practice of, ^putting cases 
in evidence." 1^' ^ 

D. C. Galle, 46,340. Bogaa/rs ^m VanBuv.r&ri,.. 209 
Conflicting sales in execution 

Ste Registhation. 



K 



X DIGEST. 

« 

Confasio 

Pagk 
See MeRgeBt. 

Consideration 

Consideration^ unlaivful — Compounding crimi* 
nal offence — Bohhery. 

In a suit to recover a sum of money agreed to 
be paid by the defendant in consideration of 
plaintiff's withdrawing a Justice of the Peace 
charge against the defendant of assaalt and 
theft from the person of the plaintiff, 

Seld, that the contract was against public 
policy, and therefore invalid. 

0. R. Trincomalie, 36,985. Valipulle v. Pon- 

WV VlAf V • 9 • t*« ••• ••• ••• ■•■ ••• • • V 

Consignee 

Consignees, liability of, for landing charges-^ 
Charges of the Wharf Sf Warehouse Co. — Ord. 10 
o/ 1876, Schedule -tl— " Consolidated landing and 
shipping charges.'* 

* Plaintiffs were the consignees of certain rice 
which defendants had undertaken to carry upon 
Bills of Lading which gave them the right to 
land the rice at consignees* risk, with a lien on 
the goods for charges, according to a scale visible 
at defendants' agents' office. Defendants em- 
ployed W. to land the goods, who detained 5 per 
cent of them till payment of landing and storage 
charges. Plaintiffs now claimed damages for 
this detention alleging a tender of a reasonable 
amount for such charges, no scale of charges 
being visible at defen(£knts* agents' office. The 
scale there visible was that contained in Schedule 
A to Ord. 10 of 1876, (being the scale charged by 
W.) which prescribed a " consolidated landing 
and shipping charge" of 10 cents per bag of rice, 
with a reduction of 10 per cent, when the goods 
were taken from the Wharf by Consignees and 
not stored. ' W. claimed 9 cents a bag for the 
goods in question, which had been removed from 
the Wharf. 

Held, that the charge of 9 cents per bag was 
for the processes necessary to be gone through 
in order to place the goods on the Wharf free to 
be removed by the owner, which processes must 
(in the absence of evidence to the contrary) be 
presumed to be covered by the expression " land- 
ing charges" in the Bills of Lading. 

Held, therefore (there being no eyidence that 



DIGEST. XI 

Coiiaign^B—contd. 

Page 
the amouBt tendered by plaintiffs was a reasona- 
ble payment for such " landing") that the deten- 
tion by defendants' agent, W., of part of the 
goods till payment of 9 cents per bag on the 
whole consignment was justified, and that plain- 
tiffs' action failed. 

D. 0. Colombo, 86,684. Guzdar ^ Co. v. The 
British India Steam Ncuvigation Co^ 84 

Contempt of Court 

Contempt of Court — Breach of Injunction-^ 
Power of District Court to issue injunction affect- 
vng ^property outside its territorial limits hut the 
subject of suit before it — Agent of party enjoined-^ 
Notice — Commdttal for. defined period. 

In aa action in the District Court of Colombo^ 
to enforce a mortgage of a coffee estate situated 
within the jurisdiction of the District Court of 
Kandy, the District Court of Colombo issued an 
injunction against the defendant and his agents 
to restrain them from coppicing the cinchona 
trees growing on the mortgaged property. B., 
the defendant's manager of the estate, after the 
issue of the injunction, directed his subordinate, 
the superintendent of the estate, to uproot all 
the cinchona trees growing on the estate. XJpoa 
motion to commit B*. as for a contempt of Court : 

Held, that the District Court of Colombo, 
having otherwise jurisdiction to entertain the 
mortgage suit,, had power by injunction toresi- 
train the defendant (and any agent of his, though 
not a party to the action, and resident outside 
the court s territorial jurisdiction) from acts 
upon the land concerned in the action. 

Quaere, whether, the defendant having sub- 
mitted to the jurisdiction of the court, it was 
open to his agent B. to raise the question of 
jurisdiction. 

HeZdalso, tha^ the fact of B. being the manager 
and agent of defendant (on whom, the injunction 
had been served) was not sufficient proof, upon 
the present motion, of notice to B. of the injunc- 
tion ; and that it was for the plaintiffs to show, 
beyond reasonable doubt, that at the time of the 
9.11eged breach B. knew of the existence of the- 
in junction. 

It was proved that at the- time of uprooting 
the cinchonas B. lived 20 miles from the estate, 
and directed the uprooting by letter to the 
superintendent, who inquired wheth^ B. had 
authority to do so, and stated that his reason for 



Xll 



F» I a Z S T. 



Contempt of Coxat—contfl. 

hesitating to uproot was the fact that there had 
been a legal dispute about cinchona cutting. 
Upon this B». forwarded a letter from defendant 
informing the superintendent that he had the 
right to uproot, having consulted his legal ad- 
visers. R. had no direct notice of the injunction. 

Meldf that though these facts did not justify 
the committal of R., it was a case iu which B. 
should pay all the costs in the court below. 

D. 0. Colombo, 85,069. Bennett v. Gow, Eic 
parte Robertson 

Conveyance without title. 

See TiTLB. 
Gonvictiott 



rAftJB: 



158: 



See AssA^ULT, 1. 
^ — Assault, 2. 
— Coin Ordinanck. 
•— Vagrant, 2, 

Co-obUgees 



Se(j Bond, 2. 



Costs 



See CoNi>iCTio indebitiv 

— Jurisdiction, 1. 

— Jurisdiction, 4.. 

— Practice, 3. 



Court 



See Judge. 



Court of Requests 

See Jurisdiction, 4. 



Creasy^ Harry, I'ih re 



... 12S* 



Cropv mortgage of 



See MoBiOAOE, 5. 



©: I fl E 8 T. XUl 

Crowxt. 



Crown^ liability of, under rating ewactment' — 
Police Ordinance, 1866, sect. 49 — Objections to 
asaesament — Odinance 5 of 1867, sect. 1 — B^man 
Dutch Law — ^VectigaLia. 

Section 1 of Ordinance 5 of 1867 covers exactly 
the same snbject-matter as sect. 49 of the Police 
Ordinance, 1865, and a little more, inasmuch as 
it provides for an appeal. The provisions of sec- 
tion 1 of the Ordinance of 1867 must be regarded 
as substituted for the provisions of the Ordinance 
of 1865, and as impliedly repealing them. 

By Proclamation of the Governor in Executive 
Council, dated 4th December 1869, under section 
34 of the Police Ordinance, the percentage on the 
assessed annual value, leviable on the buildings 
in the town of Fussellawa, as tax for the mainte^ 
nance of Police, was fixed at 5 per cent. From 
1871 to 1881 certain Government buildings in 
that town, occupied by the Public Works De- 
partment, were assessed for, and paid, the tax 
like private bnildings.. In the assessment of 
annual values of the buildings for the year 1881, 
under section 37, the Government buildings were 
not assessed; and the Governor by Proclama- 
tion of 10th June 1881 fixjed the percentage levi- 
able at 7^ per cent. 

IS.., whose estate of Bx)thschild had been ass- 
essed for the tax, and on whom a notice had been 
served under section 4^' computing the tax at 7|. 
per cent, on the assessed annual value, objected 
before the Court of Bequests to paying the 7^ per 
cent., and contended that the increase from 5 per 
cent, was owing to the omission from the assess- 
ment of the above P.W.D. buildings, which were 
liable to be so assessed under the Police Ordi- 
na/nce. The Court below having ordered a new 
assessment to be made including the Govern-. 
ment buildings, 

J?eZ(2; that H. had in effect required, the Court 
below to alter the percentage fixed by the Gover- 
nor's Proclamation, which it clearly had no. 
Sower ta do> no appeal being given from the 
etermination embodied in the Proclamation. 

Upon the qnestion whether the Crown was 
bound by section 34 of the Police Ordmatbce,. 

1865: 

Held, that if the Crown's prerogative had not 
been divested by statute, the mere fact of the 
Crown having waived it for 10 years did not 
stand in the way of its now being asserted. 

Held sAso (following Ex parte the Postmastfiv 
€iener(ilyre Bonham,Ij.R.W Ch. D., 595) thsik 



Page 



XIT T) I G T. S C. 

Qrown—emtd. 

the fact thab section 33 expressly bound the 
Crown did not necessarily render the Crown lia- 
ble under section 34. 

Heldy that there was not in the Ordinance ex- 
pression of a clear intention that the Crown was 
to be bound, and that the law must therefore be 
considered not to bibve been, changed by the 
Ordinance. 

C. R. Pussellawa, Lr. A. Morafall v. The 
Queen's Ad/vocate 14?4 

See MoRTGAGB, 6. 
Pamage feasant 

See Cattle Tbespass. 
Pa]iia(fe» 

See Cattle Trespass. 
Oate of canceUing stamii. 

See Stamp> 1. 
Pebts, sale of 

See Fiscal, 6. 
Pecreo 

See Husband and WiiBj i.. 
Pelivering judgment 

See Practice, 1. 
Pepnty Fisoal 

See Fiscal, 4. 
Posoription of oifenoe 

See Assault, 2. 
Pistriot Conrty powers of' 

See Contempt op CotrBT.. 

— Insolvency, 4. 

— Jurisdiction, 4. 
■^ Practice, 1. 



1)IGEST. XV 

Bividend 

Pagk 
See Insolvency, 4. 

Boitf tax upon 

See Local Board. 

Bomiiliis 

See FossESSO&Y action. 

Donation 

Volunta/ry donation of lanct-^uhsequeni lease 
for i)aluable consideration by donor — Contest be- 
tween donees and lessees. 

H., in 1871, conveyed to her minor children, the 
plaintiffs, certain land, with a declaration of 
irrevocability, reserving to herself the manage- 
ment of the property during the plaintiffs' mino- 
rity, and the power to lease it for terms not ex- 
ceeding one year, on the expiration of a present 
lease then having 5 years to run. Upon the 
donees attaining majority, they were at liberty 
to divide the property. In 1872 H. leased the 
property to third defendant for a term ending in 
August 1878 ; and in 1873 to first and second 
defendants for 4 years from 1878 (with recital of 
the gift to plaintiffs), the entire rent being paid 
in advance. H. having died shortly after this, 
the present actiop was begun in 1882, during 
the minority of one of the plaintiffs, the first 
two defendants being in possession under their 
lease. The plaintiffs alleged a distinct ouster 
in November 1875, and prayed ejectment. 

Heldf that the deed of gift was intended to 
operate upon all the plaintiffs attaining their 
majority. 

It appearing also that the greater part of the 

Eroceeds of the lease to the first two defendants 
ad been applied to the discharge of a debt (pro- 
bably contracted before the gift) due by the 
donor to first defendant : 

Held, affirming the decision of the Court be- 
low, that plaintiffs were not entitled to recover. 

D. V Kandy, 90,056. Comelis v. Babanis ... 268 
See Title. 
Donatio simplez 

See Ineebiiance. 



xvi 1> 1 G E S T. 

DoiM>r without HtV^ r^bsequ^ntty acquirililt title 

Page 

See Title. 
Duplicate of deed 



See Stamp, 2. ' " 

lEjectment 

See MpETGAGE, 8. . 

JBqnitable assignment 

See JiOKTGAOE, 1. 

J&Stoppel 

See Si:amp, 1. . * ' . 

ISvasion of toll 

See Toll. 

IBvidence 

l.'-^E'Oidence — Oatki)r afhrmaiion-^Child of tender 
years., admissihility of the evidence of after sinvple^ 
warning to speak the truth — Evidence improperly 
admitted. 

Upon a charge of rape, fche prosecutrix M., a 
child of between 9 and 10 years of age, gave her 
evidence without being sworn or affirmed, but 
after having been simply warned to speak the 
truth, and having promised so to do. The pri- 
soner having been convicted. 

Held, upon a case reserved, that a child, like 
every other witness, roust be sworn or affirmed 
before its evidence can be received, and that 
therefore M.'s evidence had been improperl/ re- 
ceived. 

Held also (per Clarence and Dias, JJ., dissen- 
tiefnte De Wet, A.C.J.) that, this evidenqe having 
gone to the jury, the conviction could not be 
, sustained^ although there might be other evi- 
dence in the case sufficient to support a verdict. 

• The Queeii y. Buye Appu. ... 136 

2. — Witness ivho doen not understand the obligation 
uf an oath — Oath or o/ffinnation. 

Upon a chaiKfi of rape, the prosecutrix D. was 
railed as a witness She was about 10 years of 
age, understood the difference between truth and 



f 



Digest. xyii 

Page 
falsehood, and that it was not right to tell what 
was not true ; was possessed of great natural in- 
telligenc'^, bat was wholly nninstmcted, and 
satisfied the Court that she did not understand 
- the obligation of an oath. SHe was affirmed and 
examined, and the jury oonvicted the prisoner 
mainly on her evidence. 

Hdd, upon a cskse reserved, {per Glabence aiid 
DiAS, JJr, ii88entiente Ds Wet, A. G.J.) that to 
render D.^s' testimony admissible it was not 
necessary that she should comprehend the nature 
of an oath ; and thafc she was a proper person to 
be affirmed ; and that the conviction should there- 
fore be confirmed. , 

Per Be Wet, A.G.J.— In all caseis, no witness 
can give evidence exoept upon oath or solemn 
affirmation ; and the presiding judge having been 
satisfied that D. did not understand the obliga- 
tion of an oath, or its equivalent a solemn affir- 
mation, she should not n|bve been called upon to 
make an affirmation. D.'s evidence having been 
illegally admitted, and the jury having convict- 
ed on that evidence solely, the conviction should 
l>e set aside. 

. TheQiieenY.Peria Appu 166 

See GoNDiCTio indbbiti.. 
. — Stamp, 2. 

— Vageant, 2. 

Szecntion 

See Club, 2. 

— Fiscal, 6. 

— Fiscal, 7. 

— Insolvency, 2. 
—^Insolvency, 3. 
•—^Mortgage, 6. 
— - Mortgage, 8. 

Bstinetioii of delyt 

See MoBTGAGE, 9. 

Tp%s 

See Fiscal, 2. 



See Toll. 



ZTUl DIGEST. 

Fiscal 



Page 



l.'-Fiscdlr^Ord. No, 4 of 1867, sect bl— Pa/rate 
execution — " Forthwith" — AppUcdbility where the 
property sold is not the execution dehtor'St but is 
surrendered by a friend of his, 

« 

FlaiotifE, as execution creditor in a preyious 
suit, issued his writ, but bis debtor having no 
property, S., a friend of the debtor's, surrendered 
his own property in execution of the judgment. 
The defendant, as Fiscal, sold the right, title and 
interest of the execution debtor in that property. 
The purchaser having failed to pay part of the 
purchase amount, the defendant, 9 months after- 
wards, resold the property, and 13 months after 
resale applied for and obtained parate execution 
against the first purchaser and his surety to re- 
cover the difference between the amounts realis- 
ed at the two sales, upon which levy a very small 
sum only was recovered. Plainti£E now brought 
action to recover the difference between the 
amount of his writ and the amount recovered, 
which difference he had lost by the negligence 
of the defendant in not reselling and not issuing 
parate execution, promptly. 

Held, that parate execution was a proceeding 
instituted for the benefit of the execution credi- 
tor, and that, the application for parate execution 
having certainly not been made " forthwith," as 
reouired by sect. 51 of the Fiscals Ordinance, 
18o7, plaintiff would have been entitled to a ver- 
dict ; but 

Held, that the procedure provided by the Ordi-, 
nance applied only to sales of the execution 
debtor's interest in property, which was admit- 
tedly nil in this case ; and that on this ground 
the decree of the court below dismissing plain- 
tiff's action and ordering defendant to pay the 
costs ought to be affirmed. 

D. C. Kandy, 87,506. Yegappa Chetty v. 
Lieschi/ng 123 

y» 2.'^Fiscal8 Ordinance, No. 4 of 1867, sect. 4&^ 
Sale of moveable property over £ 750 i/n value-^ 
FiscaVs comndssion. 

Held, that the words ** when the proceeds do 
not exceed the sum of seven hundred and fifty 
pounds sterling," in sect. 48 of the Fiscals Ordi- 
nance, 1867, applied only to the proceeds of the 
sale of immoveable property, and did not affect 
the rate chargeable by the Fiscal on the proceeds 
of the sale of moveables. 

C. R. Colombo, 33,634, HaU y, Bastia/n ... 182 



Digest. xix 

Fiscal— eon^c?. 

Page 

3. — FtacaTs Sale-^Ordinanee 4 of 1867, aec^. 53 — 

IrregulcuriUeg — Action to set aside scHe on grounnds 

faUmg tmder sect, 53. 

Section 53 of the FiacaU Ordina/nce, 1867> pre- 
scribes the sole procedure open to a part^ con* 
sidering himself aggrieved by irreguLftrities in 
the publishing or conducting of a FiscaFs sale, 
and such sale cannot be set aside in a separate 
action on grounds 'falling within the purview of 
section 53. 

D. 0. Matara, 82,285. Id^ooa Lehhe v. The y 

Befputy Fiscal of Ma;tara 224^ ^ 

4. — Fiscal — Ordina/nce 4 o/1867, sects, 5,83 — Bond 
ta Fiscal of Province — Assignment thereof by 
Deputy Fiscal of District 

Upon a seizure of certain property in execu- 
tion, two persons claimed it as their own, and 
were allowed to retain possession on giving a 
bond to the Fiscal of the Central Province^ under* 
taking to deliver the property to the Fiscal when 
called upon. The Deputy Fiscal of Matale pro- 
fessed to assign this bond to the plalntiS by 
indorsement as directed by section 83 of thje 
Fiscals Ordi/nance. 

Held, that the assignment was bad, having 
been made by a party having no interest in the 
bond. 

D. C. Kandy, 88,616. Ibrahim Saibu v. TTtrop- y 

pen 226 *^ 

5. — Fiscal, OAstion agaAn8t,for neglect of duty — Pre- 
scription — Ordinance 4 of 1867, sect, 21 — Accrual 
of catise of action, ^ 

Plaintiff, the holder of a writ against two per- 
sons, placed it in the hands of defendant, a 
Fiscal, for execution. Defendant purported to 
seize certain land of the execution debtors, but 
the seizure was bad for the omission of certain 
formalities. Between the seizure and the day 
fixed for sale, viz. on 20th January 1879, the exe- 
cution debtors conveyed the property seized to 
A., who claimed the land and stayed the sale. 
Plaintiff brought an action to set aside A.'s 
claim as made pending seizure, which action was 
finally decided against plaintiff in appeal on 7th 
September, 1880, on the ground that there had 
been no valid seizure prior to the conveyance to 
A. Plaintiff brought the present action, for 
damages, against the defendant in February 
. 1881. 



XX DIGEST. 

TiMCBl—cotUd. 

Paok 

Held (affirming the decision ol tbi» District 
Court) that plaintiff's cause of action aoeraed on 
defendant's failure to make a valid seiznre> and 
that plaintiffs action, not having been brought 
withm nine months of such accrual, was bured 
by section 21 of the Fisccds, Ordmancef 1867. 

D. 0. Kandy, 87,943. Mutappa Chetty v. 
ConoUy ... ... ... ... ... 2532/^ 

/ ^.'^Figcalr^Executiort-^OrcUnanee 4 of 1867, Beet, 
^ 4A — Bide of debts — Common Icuiv^ proceedmg. 

The procedure for the attachment of debts pre* 
scribed by section 44 of the Fisccda Ordinance^ 
1867» does not preclude a plaintiff from selling 
in the ordinary course of execution debts due 
to his execution debtor, but simply provides an 
alternative and summary proceeding for the pur- 
pose. 

D. 0. E[andy, 88,489. Mohamado v. Mae 
Carogher, Ex peHe MaeGa/rogher ... 24t 

T.'^Fisealr^Procedv/re to set aside sale in exeeution 
'^Ordmcmce 4 of 1867, sect. ^S-^Stmrnary pro- 
eeedi'ngs'^Statement of ohjeetions^ 

Observations on the course to be adopted in 
proceeding under section 53 of the Fiscals OrcU- 
na/nce, 1867, to have a Fiscal's sale in executioa 
set aside for irregularity. 

D. 0. Colombo> 86,645. Arookiaw/pviXle v. 
Samho ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 249^ 

8. — Fa/rate exeeuUon-^Fiscals Ordvnancet^ sect, 51 — 
Necessity for sepa/nxte smfr-^Notice of motion to 
paaiies ejected. 

Parate execution, under sections 50 and 51 of 
the Fisoals Ordmam^ce, 1867, should issue in the 
suit in which the original execution issued. No 
notice of the motion for parate execution need be 
given to the party affected, who may be heard 
upon motion to recall the ¥FFit. 

D. C. Colombo, 1,950. The Queen's Adooeate 
V. Cwre, Ex parte Liesi^ing ... 296^ 

See Mortgage, 2. 
— Bbgist&ation. 

Fiadng ftrnd by notiAe 

See PSEPEKENGS Am) CoKCUBBEKCE, 1. 



Page 
Vomication 

See YAeBANT, 1. 
7oirti]iwiti]i 

See Fiscal, 1. 
Fraud 

See &E6ISTBATI0V. 

Fund ia Court 

See Prefebencb aio) Cokgusbencb, 2. 

Fund in tbird partgr's liaada 

See Prsfebbnce axd Cokcubjbejbncz^ 1. 
Fiiniitiir« on estate 

See MoBTaAGB, 7. 
Gaming 

See Yagbaht. 
Quarantee, oontinning 

See PlUKCIFAL AND SUBBTT, 2* 

" Bear, tcsr and determine'' 

See Tbansfeb op pbosecution^ 
Beirs, lialiiUty of 

See Pbincipal abb Subbtt, 2^ 
Bolding over 

See Labdloxb abd Tenant. 

Bneband and wife 

l.-^Prcketice—Hushcmd cmd wife^-^Power of wife^ 
who has been deserted by her husbcmd, to sue for 
property constituting the joint estate^-^Decree. 

As a general rule, a married woman whose 
husband is alive cannot maintain an action, but 
where the husband is absent and has deserted 
his wife, she may commence an action in respect 
of property forming part of the ioiji:t estate ;. bub 



Xxii DIGEST. 

Husband and wife—eoiud. 

Pagv 

the wife, before she can proceed with the snit, is 
bound to summon the husband and give^him an 
opportunity of taking up the suit if so disposed. 

D. C. Matara, 30,171. Lohuham/y v. Abeyhaimf 211 

2. — Husband and vdfe — Sv/rviving spouse giving 
bond for debt of deceased spouse— Liability of 
land belonging to the community to be sold under 
judgment on the bond — ChUd/ren of the marriage, 
rights of. 

The surviving spouse of a marriage contracted 
in the community of goods had (without the con- 
sent of the children of the marriage) granted a 
personal debt-bond for the amount of principal 
and interest due to the same obligee upon an 
older bond of the deceased spouse. 

Held, that the entire property of the commu- 
nity was liable to. sale in execution of the judg- 
ment obtained upon the survivor's bond, though 
the children of the marriage were no parties to 
it, or to the action founded upon it. 

The purchaser at such. Rale takes an imperfect 
title, subject for ita validity to proof on his part 
that the obligation of the survivor had. been in- 
curred for the purpose of paying off the debt of 
the community. 

Ederema/nesinga/m's Case (Vand. 264), and D, 
C. Caltura 17,064 (3 Lorena 235), specially con- 
sidered. 

0. B. Colombo, 250* Amcms Appu v. Perera... 343L 

See Admiitisteation. 
Bypotbecatioa of mortgage to mortgagee's creditor- 
See MOBTGAGE, 3. 

Improper admission of evidence 

See Evidence, 1. 

— EVIBENCE, 2. 

Increased rmit 

See Landlord and Tenant. 
Indecent language 

See Assault, 3. 



DIGEST. .xxiii 

Inheritance 

Page 
InheTitcmae ab infcestato—OoZZa^tow— Donatio 
simplex, UahiUty of to collation, 

S., the owner of three lands, conveyed by deed 
to the defendant, his only son (the youngest of 
seven children) undivided half-shares of the 
lands, reserving to himself the right of posses- 
sion so long as he should live. S. having died 
intestate, the plaintiffs (his wife and children) 
raised the present action to eject the defendant 
from certain encroachments made by him on the 
remaining halves of the lands, which the plain- 
tiffs claimed to inherit exclusively, the defendant 
being unwilling to collate the subject matter of 
his gift. Defendant claimed, in addition to the 
halves gifted to him, an undivided one-fourteenth 
of the estate of S. as one of seven children of S. 

Held, that the gift, not having been made in 
consideration of marriage or for other special 
purpose, was a donatio simplex, and as such not 
liable to collation except in two cases, viz. first, if 
it was expressly made liable to collation ; and 
second, if some of the donor's children have 
received dowries, and the donatio simplex be 
given in lieu of a dowry. 

Held accordingly, that the gift to the defen- 
dant was not liable to collation. 

D. 0. Colombo, 79,606. Johanna v. Harmanis 172 

See Kandtan, Law. 

ZxJ unction 

See Contempt op Cotjet. 
— Insolvency, 2. 

Insolvency 

1. — Insolvent — Ordinance 7 of 1853, sect, 152— 
C^tificate in the Form R. 

P., an insolvent, had passed his examination 
and had his protection extended for one month 
from 23rd November 1880. He applied on 30th 
May 1882 for a certificate of conformity, but on 
the day fixed for considering it withdrew his ap- 
plication. ITo further order as to protection 
was made. 

Keld, that under these circumstances a certifi- 
cate in the Form R. in the Schedule to Ordinance 
7 of 1853 was wrongly issued to a proved credi- 
tor. 






Xxiv DIG EST. 



Pa6b 



Be r. A, FierU (S. G. Min., 4th Ntyv. 1873) 
followed. 

D. 0. Ins. Colombo, 1>216. Be M. Perera, Mix 
paaie H. T. Perera 205 

2,--^Insoheiu^'^Itijtm(sUorir-^As8iffnee'8righ4 to t&- 
stram execution credUot of vnaoheni from seUing 
^ moveables of ineohent in execwtion^SumMncufy 
application. 

DefendaDt was adindicated insolTetit on lOth 
January, and appellant was appointed his a«- 
signee on 14th February. Platntiff obtained in 
this suit a znone^ judgment against defendant 
on 16th Janaa«7, issued writ, and on 23rd Febru- 
ary seized in execution certain shop goods of 
defendant then in the custody of appellant an 
assignee, and advertised them for sale. Appel- 
lant, upon affidavit of these facts and notice to 
plaintiff and defendant, moved (in effect) in this 
suit that the Fiscal might be restrained by in- 
junction from selling the goods in execution. 

'Held, that the application had been rightly re* 
fused by the District Court. 

Semblef that the Court might have granted an 
injunction, had the application been made in the 
ordinary course upon a fresh libel filed. 

D. C. Colombo, 85,853. Meera 2£arkcur y. 
Barney Lehhe, Ex paHe Mohamado Lehbe 241 

S,'— Insolvency — Property acquired pending insol- 
vency, sale of in execution — Judgment on debt 
contracted pending insolvency — Bight of pwrduuer 
to sue for rent — Surrender by assignee to Insol- 
vent — Ordinance 7 o/1853, sect. 79. 

Pending the insolvency and before the certifi- 
cate of K., who had a life-interest (acquired pend- 
ing the insolvency) in a house occupied by de- 
fendant, plaintiff purchased El's interest in the 
house at a sale in execution of a judgment 
against K. obtained upon a debt contracted pend- 
ing the insolvency. Plaintiff now sued defendant 
for use and occupation. Defendant admitted 
occupation, but pleaded the insolvency and his 
liability to the assignee for the rent. 

Held, that the right to recover rent had passed 
to and was vested in the assignee, ana that 
plaintiff*s action had been rightly dismissed. 

Queers, whether, if the assignee had surrender- 
ed the property in question to the- insolvent, the 
plaintiff would have acquired any right by his 
purchase prior to such surrender. 

C. E. Colombo, 32,334. Loos v. Sehana Lehbe. 304 



DIGEST. XXV 

lUBOlvenCJ—contd, 

Pagb 

4:,---In8oloency — Mortgage creditor^ who has realised 
security, provi/ng for balance debt after one divi- 
dend has been paid — Bight to payment of first 
dvuidend out of funds in Assignee's hands before 
payment of second dividend to other cred/iiors — > 
Oraina/nce 7 o/1853, sections 108, 109 — District 
Court rescinding its own order allowing proof of 
claim. 

C. was declared insolvent on 5th September 
1879. On 26th November A. and H., mortgagees 
ot' a coffee estate belongmg to the insolvent, 
commenced an action for realizing their security. 
Thej sold the estate under a mortgagee's decree 
and purchased it themselves for £s. 10. Mean- 
while a dividend had bean declared' and paid to 
the proved creditors. On 21st April 1882 A. and 
H. were allowed to prove a claim of Bs. 25,244.51 
against the insolvent estate, being balance due z 
ou their mortgage, deducting certain payments 
already received by them out of the estate. On 
11th September A. and H. moved that out of 
the monies in the Assignee's hands they might 
be paid (before any payment on account of 
second dividend) an amount equal to what they 
would have received as first dividend on the debt 
they had now proved had they been proved credi- 
tors at that date. The Court below refused this 
motion, and also refused to allow the mortgagees 
to prove any balance sum due gu their mortgage 
bond, against the insolvent estate. 

Meld, that the District Court could not set 
aside its own order previously permitting the 
proof of the mortgagees' claim. 

Held also, that by section 109 of the Insolvency 
Ordinance the act of proving a debt which is the 
subject of a suit is a relinquishment of that suit, 
and that appellants were rightly allowed to prove 
for their balance debt. 

Held also, that in equity a creditor, who proves 
after a dividend has been made, is entitled to be 
put on the same footing as the creditors who 
have already received the previous dividends, 
[provided he does not disturb any dividend al- 
ready paid]. 

Ex parte Stiles (1 Atk. 108) and Be Wheeler 
(1 Sch. and Lef. 24^) followed. 

D. C. Ins. Kandy, 886. Be Chaiitberlin, Em 
parte Anderson.. .., .., ,., ,., ... 318 

See Mo&iGAG£, 1. 



Xxvi D I 6 E S T« 

Interest 

See JtJEiSDicTiON, 4. 

Interest of J' 

See Judge, 2. 
Irregularities la Fiscal'* sale 

See Fiscal, 3. 

Joint and several liability 

See Bond, 2. 
— Judgment. 

Joint estate 

See Husband and Wife. 

Jn^e 

l.-^udge — Power to order remot>al of proctor ap* 
pearing in cause — Bond fide heUef tkcU Courfs 
husineaa was being obstructed* 

A Commissioner of Bequests has clearly power 
to turn out of Court any one who obstructs or 
disturbs the business of the Court, even though 
such person be an Advocate or Proctor actually 
engaged in the pending case. It is also within 
the jurisdiction of the Comrmissioner, as a matter 
of course, to determine whether or not any per- 
son to whom his attention may be directed is so 
obstructing or disturbing the business as to 
render it expedient that such person be removed 
from the Court. And if the Commissioner have 
decided that point in the affirmative and acted 
accordingly, he is protected against actiou, civil 
or criminal, [unless he have acted with malice], 
and the correctness of his opinion on the facts 
cannot be reviewed by another tribunal in any 
separate action founded on such act. 

B. M. Kandy, 17,879. Bawa v. Ashmore ... 110 

2. — Judge, interest of-^Prosecution at instance of 
the Court, 

Upon a charge of theft coming on for trial 
against defendant in the Police Court, the com- 
plainant was absent. The Magistrate dismissed 
the charge, but (considering the charge too seri- 
ous to be dropped) directed the Police officer 
attached to the Uoort to present a fresh plaint in 



»i&B.sir. xzvii 

Page 
hLs own name against ihb defendant. Upon thi» 
neir plaint the Court tried and conyicted the 
defendant. 

The Supreme Court, upon appeal by the de« 
fendanfc^ quashed the proceedings,, holding that 
thfi Magistrate, ha\dng indenti&ed himself with, 
the prosecutor, had rendered himself incapable 
of dealing with the case as a judge. 

P. C. Batticaloa^ 19,718. Modder y. MuUu- 

mtttty. ••• (•• ,., ,,« ••• •«, ,•«. ooc 

Judgment 

Jomt and several UahilUy onjtidgment. 

Where a judgment decreed that plaintiff should! 

/recoyer a sum specified fiouLthe defendants and 
oat of the estate of aa intestate person, in their 
hands, 

Helcl, that under this judgment the plaintift 
might recoyer the whole amount from either de- 
fendant. 

D. C. Kandy, 81,309, De Silva y. Banhamy. 8^ 

Judgment fi^r e^bnitted amonsit. 

Bee Pbacuce,. 4. 

Jnriediotion 

l.-'-^wnsdiction to give coeta where the Court haa.- 
no juTXBdictiim to try the action'^Plea to the 
jwnsdiction* 

PlaiatiS sued the defendiuats for damages for 
breach* of an agreement to marry. The defen- 
dants pleaded to the merits, justifying the 
breach.. At the trial the Commissioner,, holding 
he had no jurisdiction to try a matrimonial, 
action,, dismissed plaintiff's suit with costs. 

Held^ (without expressing any opinion as to> 
the power of the Court in case the defendants 
had taken the plea to the jurisdiction) that, the 
plea not b&ying beei:^ taken, by the defendants 
but originated by the Court, costs were impro- 
perly decreed to the defendwts. 

HeldaLBOf that the proper order would haye 
been that the suit do abate. 

0. B. Balapitiya, 29,712. Asagurur y. Jayeiu 

trttTU. ^t^t a»« |«| III III* III ,»f o^ 



XXviii DIGEST. 

Jurisdiction— ^o?i^e/. 

2.^-^Turl9diction of Supreme GonH over ca»t in 
which ncetised have been committed for trial before 
itr^Case not yet on Calendar. 



Paqe 



The two parties committed for trial in this 
case before the Supreme Court at Colombo oa 
charges of theft, 8tellionatus» &c., moTed the 
Court for a transfer of the prosecution to the 
current Se8si(Mi of the Court at Kandy, on the 
ground that the first defendant's medical advi- 
sers had directed him to leave the Island as soon 
as possible ; and that the Colombo Session would 
delay his departure over two months. 

Held, that, the Justice of the Peace being 
functus oj/ida, the Supreme Court hadjurisdic- 
tion to make the order asked for. 

Held also, that sufficient cause had not been 
shown for making such order. 

J. P. Colombo, 3,111. The Queeu v. Amdtage. 44 

/* Z. '-Jurisdiction of Police Cov/rt'^Paddy Ordinance, 
No, 14 of 1840, sects, 6 and 14 — PenaMv of double 
value of Government share of crop—Queen*s Ad* 
vocale^s cen'tificate under Ordinance 11 of 1868, 
sect, 99. 

Section 14 of the Paddy Ordinance, 1840 enacts 
inter alia that any proprietor, who shall thresh 
the crop of his field liable to tax, without giving 
due notice to the headman, shall on conviction be 
fined to the amount of double the value of the 
share due to Government as tax. 

The d^endant, having been charged with a 
breach of section 14, was convicted and sentenced 
by the Police Court to pay a fine of Bs. 69, being 
double the value of the Government share. 

Held^ that in the absence of the Queen's Advo- 
cate's certificate contemplated bv section 99 of 
the Administration of Justice Urdvnanoe, 1868, 
the Police Court had not the jurisdiction to en- 
tertain the charge. 

P. C. Chavagachcheri, 6,889. KoMiher v. 
Kovinlar 154 

^.--Jurisdiction — District Court or Court of Re^ 
quests — Rs. 100 and interest — Practice i/a com^ 
merdal matters — Costs-^Proctor, status of, vnde" 
pendent of client. 

An action to recover Bs. 100 and interest 
thereon must be brought in the District Court. 

The Court will follow the English practice in 
commerfiial zaAtters» and will not give interest 



DIGEST. IXIX 

Jurisdiction— ca»<</. 

Page 

on claims for goods sold and delivered, on no- 
count stated, and such like, unless a specific 
agreement to pay interest be shown. 

Where a proctor has appeared in the case sim- 
ply as proctor for the plaintiff, and has signed 
plaintiff's petition of appeal against an order 
directing plaintiff's proctor to pay the defendants' 
costs, such proctor has no status to appeal on his 
own account against that order. 

D. G. Colombo, 85,440. Ahamai ▼. Mai'tmus... 341 
See OoliTBicPT of Court. 

— T&AjrSFJSK OF F&OSECUTIOIf. 

Juris ^uasi possessio 

iSfee Sbrvitudb. 
Xaadyaa law 

Kcmdycm law-^ Adoption for purposes ofinhe^^i- 
tcmee, requisites for — Marrtage — Uvdvna%ce 6 of 
1847, sects. 2 cmd 2B--'0rdinance 13 of 1859, 
sect. 35. 

M. (a Kandyan Singhalese) and B. (a woman of 
European descent), professing Christianity, were 
in 1836 married according to the rites of that 
religion in Grampola. After 7th December 1849 
(when the Ordinance 6 of 1847 was confirmed by 
Her Majesty by notice in the Gazette), B. being 
still alive, M. conducted as his wife M. M. (a 
Kandyan woman) according to Kandyan customs. 

Held, that M.'s second marriage was invalid 
and bigamous, under Ordinance 6 of 1847, 
sect. 28. 

The requisites for a Kandyan adoption, for 
purposes of inheritance, discussed. D. C. Kand^ 
53,309 (Grenier, 1873, p 117) approved. 

D. C. Kandy, 89,562. Ka/runaraMe t. Andre- 
v}€we. ... ... ... ... ••• ... ... 2oM 

Saadyaa Vzovineiis 

See Sbevitude. 
Labour Ordinance 

See Mastek and Sebvant. 
Iianding charges 

See CoNSiGJiBB, 



XXX DIGEST. 

Landlord and Tenant 

Landlord atid tenant^Notice to qwit^^Increased 
rent for holdi/ng over. 



PAftE 



Plaintiff as landlord gave notice on 20th 
February to the defendant his tenant to qmt the 
plaintiff s house on 31st March, in d^nlt of 
which the plaintiff would charge the defendant 
rent at the rate of Bs. 50 instead of Bs. 31.50 per 
month for such time as the defendant should 
hold over. The defendant quitted the house on 
15th or 18th April, and plaintiff brought this 
action to recover Bs. 50 as rent for Apnl. 

Held, that plaintiff was entitled to recover. 

C. B. Colombo, 35^4254 Jacobs y. Eh^ ... 307 

^Lease 

S(^e Lessor and Lessee. 
— Donation. 

Lessoraad Lessee 

Fractice — Lessor wnd Lessee— ^Action by lessee 
against trespasser — Joinder of lessor as defendant- 
t9 warrant and defend title. 

Plaintiff, a lessee who had been duly put in 
possession of the property leased, sued his lessor 
and two others, averring that second and third 
defendants had trespassed upon the property and 
forcibly appropriated certain goods of plaintiff's,. 
«and calling upon his lessor (the first deiendant) 
to warrant and defend title, and, in failure, to 
pay plaintiff the rent advanced and the value of ^ ; 

the goods appropriated by the trespassers. The- 
trespassers having claimed and proved title ta 
the property leased, first defendant wad by the 
Court below decreed to repay the advance rent 
and cast in damages and costs. 

Be W (reversing the decision of tho Court of 1 

Bequests), that the first defendant had been im- ] 

properly joined in the suit and was entitled to be * 
absolved from the instance with costs. 

D. G. Negorribo, 7,744 (1 S. C. C. 54) approved 
quoad hoc, 

C. E. Galle, 60,977. De Silva r, Perera. .., 234 
Licence 

See Akrack, 



DIGEST. XXXI 

Limitation 

Pagk 
See Assessment for Police tax. 
— Pkosecution, 1. 

Live and dead stock 

See MoKTGAGE, 7. 

Local Board 

Local Board Bye-law — Ordinance No. 7 of 1876 
'^-Power to create criminal offences bypassing hyc' 
laws for purposes not specified in the Ordina/nce'^ 
Ultra vires. 

A Local Board established under Ordinance 
No. 7 of 1876 had passed a Bye-law making it an 
offence for any person after the 30th June of 
each year to keep a dog, for which the tax levied 
by the Board had not been paid, within the limits 
of the Board and without notice thereof to the 
Board. The Bye-law professed to have been made 
under section 35 of the Ordinance, and was pub- 
lished in the Gazette as having been approved by 
the Governor in Executive Council. 

Held, that the bye-law in question did not fall 
under any of the eighteen purposes specified in 
section 35 ; and accordingly, 

Held, that the bye-law was ultra vires of the 
Local Board. 

P. 0. Grampola, 3,477. Ambrose v. Slema Lehbe 95 

Maintenance 

. Non-maintenance of illegitimate child — Plea of 
autrefois acquit. 

Defendant on a charge of not maintaining his 
illegitimate child (in breach of subsect. 2 of sect. 
3 of the Vagrants Ordinance, 1841) pleaded aw^re- 
fois acquit, showing that he had in a previons 
case been acquitted on a charge tendered by 
complainant of not maintaining the same child. 

Held, that though there was no special verdict 
on the point the previous case must be taken to 
have disposed of the question of paternity, which 
was of the essence of the charge. 

Held also, that, the non-maintenance of illegiti- 
mate children being a criminal offence, the pre- 
vious verdict rendered the matter now in issue 
res adjudicata. so that the special plea ought to 
have been sustained. 

P. C. Colombo, 7,874. Baichyhamy v. Pier is... 93 



XXXn DIGEST. 

Marriage 

Page 

See Kaxdyan La-w. 

Vaster and Servant 

Ordinance No^ 11 of 1865, sect, 11—" Quitting 
service" 

On a charge under sect. 11 of the Labour Ordi' 
nance of quitting service without notice or 
reasonable cause, the evidence showed that de- 
fendant was complainant's cook, having also to 
work in the bungalow, and that one evening, 
after preparing the dinner, he went away withoub 
leave (leaving his boxes behind) and returned 
the next morning. 

Seldf that these facts did not amount to a 
• quitting of complainant's service within the 
meaning of the Ordinance. 

P. C. Dimbula, 6,550. Belly, Dillo 102 

Mohilia nan habent sequelam. 
See MoBTGAGE, 5. 

aSerchant Shipping Act 

See Ship. 
aSerger 

See Mortgage, 4. 

— MOETGAGE, 9. 

asinorsy rights of 

See Administration. 
— Husband and wife. 

aSistake 

See CoNDiCTio indebiti. 
IConey paid under mistake 

See Co^DicTio ixdebiti. 



Uortgage 



Digest. xxxm \ 

i 

1 

PAGlfi 



1. — Equitable assignment of mortgage debt^^Inaol- 
vency-'* Order and disposition* of InsoJ/venU^ 
Trust, 

M., the owner of a coffee estate, mortgaged it 
to W. & Co. as security for fands supplied and 
to be supplied to him by W. & Oo. for the work- 
ing of the estate. W. & Co. subsequently, with 
notice to M., entered into an agreement with Q. 
B. & Co. that the latter should advance to W. & 
Co. the monies necessary for them to keep their 
engagement with M., W. & Co. undertaking to 
hold the securities created by the mortgage bond 
as trustees for H. B. & Co. to the extent of their 
advances to W. & Co. W. & Co. having become 
insolvent, their assignees (the defendants) claim- 
ed the sum due upon the bond (which had been 
deposited in the hands of a stakeholder) for the 
benefit of the general creditors as against H. B. & 
Co. 

Held, that the agreement of W. & Co. with H. 
B. & Co. constituted an e<]^uitable assignment to 
the latter of the former's nghts under the mort- 
gage though the indMa of title had remained 
with W. & Co. 

Held, that therefore the right of action on the 
mortgage (which had been a chose in action in 
the order and disposition of the insolvent) did 
not pass to the assignees for the benefit of the 
general creditors, and that H. B. & Co. were 
entitled to the sum deposited as due under the 
mortgage bond. 

D. C. Colombo, 30. Harvey, Brand Sf Co, v. 

^2 fSwifvO •••, ..• *•• ••• ••• ••• ..t 4t/ 



2.— Ptwcfeflwe in exeaitiou of land subject to mort- 
gage'—Subsequent pwrchase wndefr the mortgagee* a 
writ^-'Bighi of first ptMrchaser to refund of pur- 
chase money. 

Plaintiff on money judgment obtained issued 
writ and caused the !Fiscal to sell (subject to a 
mortgage in favor of C.) an undivided interest in 
land belonging to the defendants, which was 
purchased by the respondents. This sale was 
never confirmed by the Court. Subsequently C„ 
having obtained a mere money judgment on his 
mortage bond, caused the same propertv to be 
sold m execution and purchased it himself. 

Meld, that under the 53rd clause of the FiscaU 
OrdwMmce, 1867, confirmation by the Court was 
necessary only for those sales which had been 
impeached, and S. no objection to the sale were 



» 



kxxir 1)i»£«t. 



Pagh 



lodged within SO dliys it was confirmed ipso facto. 
Held accordingly, that respondents were not 
under section 55 entitled to a refund of their 
purchase money. 

D. 0. Colomlx), ^7,900. Pererd ▼. Diaa, Ex 
parte Ja/yeiekere 78 

3^ — Mortgage, hypothecation and part assignment 
of, to inortga^geee ereditor-^uU to enforce such 
mortgage against thdrd party in possession of 
properfy mortgageir^Froof of debt due hy party 
assignmg, 

&., the owner ol Grotto Estate, mortgaged it in 
1875 to W. to secure a debt and future aavances. 
in 1876 W. by deed acknowledged a debt due to 
p|>laintifE, and as security hypouieoated to plain- 
tiff W.'s mortgage on &rotto,^ying plaintiff a 
Power of Attorney to sue on W.'s mortgage to 
recover such part of S.'s debt to W. as would 
cover W.^s debt to plaintiff. In 1878 S. sold 
Grotto to A. who re-sold to defendant. Plaintiff 
having in 1880 obtained judgment against W. 
and 8. on the bond of 1876, declaring S.'s debt to 
tW. executable pro ta/nto in satis&ction of that 
judgment, and declaring also the property mort- 
»Vged b^ S. to W. so executable, sought to sell 
Grotto in execution, and brought the present suit 
to set aside defendant's objection to such sale. 

Held, that plaintiff's iud^ent against W. and 
S. did not bind the defendant, and that before 
she could seek to enforce S.'s mortgage to W., 
she was bound to establish as against the defen- 
dant that a debt was owing to her from W^ ; and 
this she had neither averred nor proved ; and 
that plaintiff was therefore not entitled to the 
relief prayed against defendant. 

D. C. Sjttidy, 88,445. \Barry v. AUah PUcke. . . 106 

4.'^Mortga^e'^Mortgagee^s remedy against pUrd 
pa/rUes, i/ransferees of mortgagor, in possession'^ 
Pleadiiig'^Continuamce of Mortgage debt — Merger 
of mortgage injudgment-^Begistration^~Prior%ty* 

C. and P., on 6th January 1876, mortgaged 
three pieces of land to plaintiffs to secure a debt 
of Bs. 7,500. Plaintiffs, on 30th October 1879, 
obtained judgment on their mortgage and 4 
mortgagee's decree. Plaintiffs sued out execu- 
tion against the mortgaged property but found 
the d^endants " in possession." The defendants 
c had purchased the interest of C. in the mortgag- 
ed property at a sale in execution of a money 






DIG 1ST. 

Xertgage— coned 

decree obtained by plaintifEs, in anotber tuit» 
after tbe date of tne mortgage. Plaintiffs nowv 
setting out tbe above &cts, and averring tbab 
defen£tnt8 "continued in possession objecting 
ta tbe plaintiffs selling tbe said lands to satisfy 
tbe amount of the mortgage decree>!' prayed tbat 
tbe lands migbt be dec£red executable and liable 
to be sold under plaintifb' writ in tbe mortgage 
suit. 

BM, foUowing D. 0. Matara 29,149 (1 S. C. G. 
80) tbat tbis disclosed a misconception of plain- 
t^s' remedy, wbicb. sbould baye been toa^cer and 
estabUsb, as agfunst tbe mortgagors' transferees, 
the mortgage and tbe continuance of tbe debtC 
and to. pray (not tbat tbe lands be declwred sale- 
able under a previous writ; issued against the 
mortgagors, but) tbat the lands be declared sim- 
ply executable and saleable as against ti^e trans- 
ferees. 

As to continuance of tbe debt, tbe plaintiffs 
merely averred thattbey bad obtained a judg- 
ment against tbe mortgagors. Defendants did 
not demur, but denied the mortgage. The mort- 
gage was wimdfcbcie established!)^ the admis- 
sion in evidence, by consent, of plaintiff s' mort- 
gage deed. 

Meldr that there was no sufi^ient averment of 
the continuance of the debt ; and defendants 
were absolved, from, the instance, but .without 
costs. 

. D. G. Edondy, 87,172. Swmaiak Chetty v. 
HahamM,, ... ... ... ... ... ... 21^ 



h^.r-^2£6ri^nge-^offe6 eslaie'^Mortgage of coffee 
crop wUh covenwnt to consign crop to mortgagee 
for cwrvng, shipment <md saZe—lUght of tm^ecw- 
ed creditor to seize cmd seU such crop in execution 
-^Preference and concurrence — MoveaMee, right 
of mortgagee to folloTv-^Maxiiny Mobilia non 
habent sequelam. 

On l«t October 1880 plaintiff obtained: judg^ 
ment on a cheque agamst the defendant, the 
owner of a coffee estate. On 2nd October de- 
fendant, by a deed which was registered within 
one week of its eisecation, ** specially hypothe- 
cated, assigned and set over to the appellants, as 
a first^Dbarge free from, all encumbrances," the 
crop of the estate for the season 1880-81, to secure 
certain advances to be made by appellants to 
defendant, undertaking to consign such crop to 
appellants for curing, shipment and sale, de- 
fendant to be credited with tbe net proceeds. 



ZXXTl DIGEST. 

Pags 
Appellants made certain adTaooes in pnmianoe 
of tnis ammgement. Plaintiff thereafter iasned 
his writ, 8ei»dd and sold part of the hypothecat- 
ed crop* 

HM, that appellants having a pieferent right 
of hypothec over the co&e, had a right to pre- 
Tent the plaintiff, who had no snch hypothec, 
from selling snch coffee in execution of his 
judgment. 

'Phe coffee having been sold nnder plaintiff's 
writ, and the proceeds deposited in Gonrt : 

HM, that, as long as the money remained ia 
Conrt, the appellants as hypothecary creditors 
had a right to be paid thereont the amount of 
their advances in preference to the execatioiL 
cr^tor or any others claiming concurrence with 
them. 

D. C. Kand^, 86,520. Barnen Chetty v. Bardie, 
Ex parte WfnUaiU i- Co 217 

d.-^Mortgage^^Mor^age efected after accrual of 
Crown deht-^IUgnt of Crown to ** preference of 
payment' — Ordinance 14 of 1843, sect. 5— fifofe of 
execution debtor's " interest^'^Seizure, continu- 
ance of. 

In 1873 the first defendant was the owner of 
certain land. In November 1873, S. obtained 
judgment for a large sum of mon^ against the 
fiirst defendant. In July 1879 the Queen's Advo- 
cate obtained judgment, against the first defend- 
ant for pertaiu monejv due by him to Govemmenti 
upon his purchase of an arrack-rent. In Decem- 
ber 1879 first defenduit mortgaged his land to 
plaintiff. In 1876 S. seized the land in execution 
of his judgment, but did nothing further under 
his writ. In January 1881 the first defendant's 
interest in the land was sold by way of a joint 
levy under the writs oi Su and the Crown, and 
was purchased by the second d^endant. Plain- 
tiff now sued the defendants on the mortgage 
contract, praying that the mortgagor's interest 
as it stooa at the date of the mortgage might be 
declared specially executable for the debt, j 

Held, tiiat the seizure of the land ^ected by 
S. in 1876 must be taken to have been abandoned 
by 1879 when the mortgage was created ; and 
that the mortgage was therefore not affected by - 
such seizure. 

The Fiscal having, at the sale at which second 
defendant purchased, sold the execution debtor's 
interest in the lan d : y 

Held, that this ^sak passed Qa\j the debtor's 



DIGEST. XXXvii 

Mortgage— cofUd. 

Page 
interesfc as at the date of seizure, when plaintiff's 
mortgage^ was in existence. ) 

Seld therefore, (Arming the decision of the 
Court below) that plaintiff was entitled to judg- 
ment. 

Per Clabence, J. — ^The Ordinance 14 of 1843, 
by giving the Crown a ** preference of payment" 
over other creditors, did not give it power to sell 
the property of its debtor free from all encum- 
brances created after the accrual of the Crown 
debt ; and it is questionable whether the privi- 
lege of the Crown amounts to more than a right 
to preference qtuoad any assets which may from 
time to time have been realized and brought into 
Court, including perhaps a levy by a mortgagee 
under a mortgagee's decree. 

D. 0. Kandy, 87,824. De Mell y, Per&ra ... 227 

X 7. — Mortffctge^^Gojfee estate with the **live and dead 
stocks* ^hereon^-Bimgalow furniture on estate. 

BoBgilow furniture, kept on a coffee estate for 
the use of the Superintendent, is prima facie not 
covered by a mortgage of the " dead stock'' on 
the estate. If any person be interested in main- 
taining the contrary, it is for him to satisfy the 
Court of any particular usage or circumstances, by 
reason of which such furniture does form part 
of the " dead stock." 

D. C. Kandy, 91,573. Ahram 8aiho ^ Co. v. 
Kerr, Ex foxte Kerr 278- 

B,~^Mortg<ig^^Mortgagee plaintiff purchasing pro- 
perty mortga>ged in execution — Ejectment — Non- 
joinder of parties in possession in mortgage suit.. 

Plamtiff obtained judgment in a former action 
on a mortgage bond against his debtor, and 
bought the mortgaged property in execution on 
18th January 1882. Plaintiff brought the present 
action against two defendants to obtain a decla- 
ration of title to, and possession of, that property, 
alleging that defendants had taken the crop off 
the land after plaintiff's purchase. The second 
defendant had on 19th April 1881 purchased the 
same land in execution of a money judgment 
against plaintiff's mortgagor during the subsis- 
tence of the mortgage. 

Meld, affirming the decision of the court below, 
that plaintiff, not having joined in his mortgage 
suit the porohaser in ezecatioii of the money 



XXXViii DIGEST. 

judgment (the present second defendant) cottld 
not succeed in the present suit. 



Pagb 



C. B. Matale, 3,747.. Mahamadu Tambyi. v, 
Mdluxmadu Ali 293i 

9. — Mortgage — Turchase by mortgagee, imder third 
party* 8 writ, of part of mortgaged property^^Mer* 
ger — Extinction of debt. 

Plaintiff, who held a mortgaee orer eleren of 
defendant's lands to secure a debt of Bs. 4»D00« 
obtained, on 23rd February 1882, a mortga* 
gee's decree^ and levied a sum of Bs. 596 by 
sale of part of the mortgaged property. A third 
party, having previously obtained a money judgr 
ment against defendant, seised and sold another 
part of the property mortgaged, expressly sub- 
ject to plaintiff's mortsfage, and plaintin pur- 
chased for Bs. 100. The greater part of the 
mortgaged property still remained undiscussed. 

Hhldf that defendant's motion, to have satis** 
faction of plaintiff's mortgage judgment entered 
up, had been righth^ refused under these circum- 
stances. 

D. G. Colombo, 85,981. Morgojn t. Wij&yegoone' 

tlLleiCe ... ... •.« ••• ••• •(• ••• nXOat: 

See Bond, 2. 

— Insolvency, 4. 

— Practice, 4. 

— puncipal and subbtt, 1. 

— Bbgistration, 

Xortga^aa proving in iiisolvency 

See Insolvency, 4. 

Mortgagaa purchasiiiLg property mortfagad. 

See MoBTGAGB, 9. 
Xovaablas 

See Mortgage, 5. 
, , . Xnnicipal bye-lawa 

L , lio ^ See Bye-law. 






t '' See Preperbnce and Concurrence,. 1, 



B I G E S T. ixxix 

Xmnicipalii^ oi iCandy 

Page 

See Btb-li-W. 

Naming of defendant* 

See YxesANT, 2. 

Negligence 

See Pkincipal and Sukbty, 2> 

Ne Ituninibns oAciattir 

See Sbevitude. 
Non-jbinder 

See MoETGASE, 8. 
Notary's pirotocol of deed 

SeB S^iAXB, 2. 
Notioe of action 

See Assessment foe Police tax* 
Notice cff motion 

See Fiscal, 8. 
Notice to pay 

See Peefeeence and Goncueeence, 1. 

Notice to quit 

See Landloed and Tenant. 

Oath or affirmation 

See Eyidence, 1. 
— Evidence, 2. 

ddection to aMewnnent 

See Assessment foe Police tax. 

— GSOWN. 

Otj^ction to ezecntion sale 

See Fiscal, 7. 



xl 



DIGEST. 



Obstructing Court's business 

See Judge, 1. 

Onus probandi 

8ee BuEDBN of fboof. 



Page 



<i 



S^I^m" 



Order and disposition 

See MOATGAGE, 1. 

Order of piayment 

See Frefebence and Cokcuerxvce, 2. 
Ordinance dealing with same suligect as b7e4aw 

See Bye-law. 

Ordinances 

No. 8 of 1834, sect. 2. See Sebvitttde. 

No. 14 of 1840, sects. 6, 14. See Jurisdiction, 3. 

No. 4 of 1841, sect. 3, subsect. 2. See Mainteitancb, 

, sect. 4, subsect. 4. See Vagrakt, 2* 

sect. 4, subsect. 6. See Vagrant, 1. 



No. 14 of 1843, sect. 6. See Mortgage, 6. 

No. 10 of 1844, sects. 26, 65. See Arrack. 

No. 6 of 1847, sects. 2, 28. See Kandyan Law. . 

No. 5 of 1852, sect. 5. See' Servitude. 

No. 19 of 1852 [repealed.] See Stamp, 2. 

No. 7 of 1853, sect. 79. See Insolvency, 3. 

, sects, 108, 109. See Insolvency, 4, 

sect. 152. See Insolvency, 1. 



No. 5 of 1857, sects. 12, 13. See Coin Ordinance. 

No. 13 of 1869, sect. 35. See Kandyan Law. 

No. 18 of 1861, sect. 13. See Assault, 3. 

No. 15 of 1862, sect. 16. See Bye-law. 

No. 8 of 1863, sect. 39. See Registration. 

No. 11 of 1865, sect. 11. See Master and Servant. 

No. 16 of 1865, sect. 49. See Crown. 

' , sect. 75. See Assault, S, 

No. 17 of 1865. See Bye-law. 

, sects. 44,. 52. See Prbpbrhnce and 

Concurrxnce, 1. 

, sect. 177. See Assessment for 

Police tax. 
No. 4 of 1867, sects. 6, 83. See Fiscal, 4. 

— , sect. 21. See Fiscal, 5. 

■ , sect. 42. See Begistration. 

, sect. 44. See Fiscal, 6. 

, sect. 48. See Fiscal, 2. 

— , sect. 51. See Fiscal, 1. 

, -. See FiscAi*, 8. 



.D t G E 8 T. ' Xii 

Ordinances— con^(/. 



Page 



No. 7 of 1853, sect. 53. See Fibcal, 7. 

^ee Fiscal, 3. 



*, sects. 53, 55. See Mobtgage, 2. 



. No. 5 of 1867, sect. 1. See Assessment pob Police 

TAX. 

. ^ . See Ckown. 

. No. 14 of 1867, sects. 17, 18. See Toll. 

No. 11 of 1868, sect. 22. See Jusisdichok, 2. 

, , See Tbansfer of fbose- 

CUTIOK. 



, , sect. 52, subs. 3, 11. See Practice, 2. 

' -—, sect. 75. See Practice, 1. 

• ^ sect. 99. See Jubisdictiok, 3. 

. , sect. 119. See Transfer op prose- 
cution. 

^ sect. 165. 8^ Assault, 2. 

, sect. 229. See Security to keep 

THE PEACE. 

No. 18 of 1871, sect. 2. See Police Court. 
No. 22 of 1871, sect. 3. See Servitude. 
No. 23 of 1871, sect. 9. See Stamp, 1. 

'■ , sects. 36, 39, 40. S^e Stamp, 2. 

No. 7 of 1874, sect. 1. See Transfer of prosecution. 

- N^ 7 of 1876, sects. 35, 79. See Local Board. 

- No. 10 of 1876, Schedule A. See Consignee. 
No. 6 of 1878, sect. 16. See Prosecution, 
No. 5 of 1881, sect. 3. See Arrack. 

• 

Original of deed 

See Stamp, 2. 
Paddy 

See Jurisdiction, 3. 
Parate execution 

See Fiscal, 1. 

— Fiscal, 8. 

Parties 

See Husband and wife. 

— Lessor and Lessee. 

— Mortgage, 8. 

Penalty 

See Stamp, 2. 

Plaint 

See Yagrant, 2. 



xUi DIGEST, 

Plaint, presentation of ^ 

Pa&e 

See Police Couet. 
Plea 

See Jurisdiction, 1. 
— Maintenance. 

Pleading 

See MoETGAGB, 4. 

Polioe Court 

Police Court — Practice — Presentation of plaint 
by complainant i/n person — Proctor, right of, to 
appear before plaint entertained — Ordinance 18 
of 1871, section 2. 

A plaint in a Police Oourt must be presented 
to the Magistrate by the complainant in person, 
and not through a proctor, unless the Magistrate 
dispenses with the personal appearance of the 
complainant. 

P. C. HaldummuUa, . Govindai v Karpen 339 

See Jurisdiction, 3. 
Policeman 

See Assault, 1, 3. 
Police ofBlcer 

See Assault, 2, 3. 
Police tax 

See Crown. 

Possession 

See Possessory action. 
— Servitude. 

Possessory Action 

Possessory adion — Nature of the possession 
necessary — Ability of an agent, who has possessed 
in right of the dominus, to maintain possessory 
OAstion, 

M., the owner of two coffee estates, sold an un- 
divided half share of them to B., who gave M. a 
mortgage for the purchase amount over the 



* DitflST, xliii 

PoBsassory Action— con^. 

property so sold on 2nd July 1876. M. died, 
leaving bis brother the plaintiff (wbo was in 
England) bis executor, and thereafter B. continu- 
ed in the sole occupation and management of the 
estates. At B.'s request plaintiff came out to 
Ceylon, and took charge of the two estates in 
January 1880, and continued with B.'s consent 
in the sole occupation and management of them 
till September 1881, plaintiff himself finding all 
necessary funds for their upkeep. In July 1880 

Elaintiff raised such funds on a mortgage of M.li 
alf share, which (in August 1881) was sold in 
execution under the mortgage debt, and pur* 
chased by second defentSnt. In June 1881 
plaintiff had again mortgaged M.'s half share to 
first defendant. In September 1881 plaintiff* 
was deprived of his possession of the estates by 
T., who acted as the agent of the defendants and 
with B.'s knowledge and' consent, to plaintiff's 
knowledge. 

Held (per Db "Wet, A. 0. J., and Clakence,. J., 
cUasentiente Dias, J.) that, plaintiff's occupation 
of B.'s half share having been in the character of 
agent for B., the right to maintain a possessory 
action in respect of that share was B;'s and nofe 
plaintiff's. 

Per Bias, J.— Plaintiff, having been in posses- 
sion of an undivided half share of the estates for 
a year and a day, when he was forcibly dis- 
possessed, was entitled to be restored to posses- 
sion, ^nd to recover damages for the forcible dis- 
possession. 

D. 0. Kandy, 89,797. MacOarogJier v. Baker. . . 253: 



Power of ji 

See Judge, 1. 
Practice 



l.-^Distrid Cov/rt reaervvr^ jttdgrnent^^DeUv&ry 6v> 
Jtidge in open Court^Ordincmce 11 «/ 1868, 



section 75. 



^e District Court, after the trial of this case 
on 25th January 1881, reserved judgment. The 
judge, having been removed to another station, 
sent his judgment in the case to his successor, 
who caused it to be read in Court by an officer of 
the Court as the judgment in the case, on 27th 
September 1881. 

Meldf that this ooald not be regarded as tha 



.y. 



xliir 1» I O 8 i t; 

Practic«~«ont<2. _ 

Page 

jndgmMit of the DistriotrOooH witiiin the mean- 
ing of Ordinance No. 11 of 1B68. 

D. 0. Batnapura, 1,828. Swrnouagala v. Ficb- 

€ii€LS8€b <•• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• " 

2.^^Pr(ictice-^Appeal to the Prwy Coa/ncU — Ord. * 
11 of 1868, sect. 52, suhsocta. 3 ovuZ 11. 

The Supreme Court delivered a iodgment in 
this case on 22nd November 1881, which did not 
pasfi the seal of the Court till 28th March 1882. 
Appellant (the plaintiff) Bled his petition of ap- 
peal on 8th April, and tendered his bond for 
security in appeal (the acceptance of which waa 
Huopposed) on 7th July, 1882. 

Held, that the 14 days within which (under 
aubseot. 3) the petition of appeal had to be ^ filed 
were to be reckoned fnna the date of the jndj^r^ 
inent sought to be appealed against passing the 
seal of the Court, axsd not from the date of its 
delivery in Court ; and that therefore the petttioa. 
was filed in time. 

Held also, that the bond for aeeutity in appeal 
had been tendered wi&in the three months of 
fiUng the petition of appeal, and was therefore 
in time. 

D. C. KegaUa, 4^026. Casaiim Lebht v. DoumM 1 6 

Z,'^8eeond action for gtrnn^ Bvhjeei'maMer^^Btayviihff 
proeeedmg» in, tiUpayaneiU of eoete of former 
action. 

Plaintiff brought an action to recover from the A 

three present defendants possession of a vihara j 

and its endowments, and obtained judgment, | 

which was reversed in Appeal by the Supreme 
Court, and his suit dismissed. PlJEiintiff then 
commenced the present action for the same sub- 
ject-matter and declaring on the same cause 
of action, though tracing his title somewhat 
differently from the previous suit. 

' Held, following Thomas v. Brai/ae (reportedx 3^ 

S.C.C. 149), that the District Court has a dis- 

I cretionary power to stay proceedinga in a seonad 

I action till payment of the costs of the formep 

action by the unsuccessful plaintiff. 

Held also, that that discretion had been right-* 
ly exercised in the present case in making th0 
order staying further proceedings* 

D. C. Kandy, 90,099. Dhammaifef^iy. Paremct- 
iota ,,« #n - Ml III It I, »•« I,, «^ 



'A 



I 



oiexsT. xW 

Braetioe— eon^. 

Faob 

4,^-^AdmM9toiir-^Mortga4f&^Int&^ judgment for 
amount admitted — aaXe of mortgaged property to 
gaiisfy part of mortga>ge debt, 

Flaintiff sned to recover Bs. 1181.25 as princi- 
pal and interest due upon a mortgage bond, 
befendant admitting the bond impugned it as 
invalid for stipulating for usnrions interest, and 
set oat several different transactions, out of 
vhich in connection «vith the bond he admitted 
Ks. 283.52 to be due to the [plaintiff. Plaintiff 
applied by Rule NUi to have judgment entered 
up in his favour for the sum admitted, which rule 
was discharged. 

Held, that the answer did not contain such an 
absolute admission of part of plaintiff's claim as 
entitled him to judgment therefor. 

Held alsoj that plaintiff conld not have a mort- 
gagee's decree declaring the mortgaged land 
specially executable, enforceable piecemeal ; but, 
if anything, only a judgment for a mere sum of 
money. 

D. C. Colombo, 87,285. As&rappa v. Be Zoyea 74 

Bee Club, 2. 

— Contempt of Coubt. 

— Husband anb wipx» 1. 

— jubisdiction, 1. 

— Jurisdiction, 4. 

— - Lessor and Lbssxe. 

— FOLICB CoUBT. 

Preference and Concurrence 

1.— rPr«fere»ce and eonfswrrenee^^Fimd in hands of 
third party f **fia^ed^* Bp^-notiee to pay creditor-^ 
Debt due oy MtmicipaMty^'^oUce to Secretary'^ 
Ordinance 17 of 1865, aecta. 52 and 44. 

Plaintiff, and A. and W. had each obtained 
judgment against the present defendant. The 
Municipality of Galle owed defendant a debt. 
On 24th July, the defendant, by word of mouth 
and by written notice, requested the Secretarv of 
the Municipality to pay his debt to A. The debt 
not having oeen paia owing to the absence of the 
Chairman of the Municipality, the plaintiff (dti 
26th July) and W. (on the 27th) attached the 
debt under their respective judgments. PIkd- 
tiff having obtained a rule on A. and W. to show 
cause against the money being applisd, solely or 
in concurrence, to the satisfaction of plaintiff's 



Araforenee and Concnrrance— coneei. 

Page 

judgment, the District Judge ^scharged it with 
costs. 

Held, that the notice to the Municipalitj had 
been rightly served on the Secretary ; that the 
fund had thereby been " fixed" as the property of 
A. ; and the plaintiff had shown no right to it. 

D. 0. Galle, 48,336. De 8ilva v. Hendrick ... 315- 

2,'-~'Preference and concurrence — Fimd in Court-^ 
Order of payment — Property passing te payee^^ 
Fund ** fixed." 

Claims of preference or concurrence in the 
proceeds of a levy can be brought forward so 
long as the money remains in Court, and no 
logger. 

Plaintiff levied a sum^ of money on a mortga- 
e*8 decree founded on a special mortgage of 
is defendant's property, and on 12th October 
1882 obtained an order of payment in his favour 
for the amount of the levy. The Government} 
Agent refused to pay the proceeds to plaintiff, 
on the ground that the Crown had a preferent 
claim to them in virtue of a debt due by defend* 
ant to the Crown. On 19th March 1883, and 
subsequently, the Queen's Advocate moved for, 
and on 25th July obtained, an order for the pay- 
ment of the money. 

Held, that the Queen's Advocate's claim to 
pVeference had been wrongly enterbained, as the 
money must be regarded as having got home to 
the plaintiff at the date of the order of payment 
to him, and as being no longer in Court. 

D. C. Colombo, 86,619. Bamen CheUy v. Silva, 
Ex parte the Qusen*8 Advocate 329* 

See Mortgage, 5. 

— MOETGAGB, 6. 



ff. 



Pr«80ription 

See Bond, 1. 

— Fiscal, 5. 

— Peosecutiok. 

— Sbbyiiude. 

FresaAoe of complainaat at trial 

See AssATTLT; 3. 



j>roi8T. xlvii 

TPrineipal and Snrety 



1.— C/eaat&OT- o/ Action — Surety paying off debt — 
Cession necesswry for surety to reach immoveables 
mortgaged. 

Plaintiff (a surety), bringing the amount of the 
debt into Court, prayed in a previous suit that 
the defendant, the creditor, be decreed to accept 
the money and hand over to plaintiff the deeds 
hypothecated. Defendant drew the money out 
of Court. Plaintiff's Rule Nisi calling upon de- 
fendant to execute in his favour a cession of action, 
having been discharged on the ground that his 
libel was defective, plaintiff brought the present 
action to compel defendant to cede to him his 
right of action against the principal debtor. 

Held, that plaintiff must be taken to have de- 
posited the money conditionally on defendant's 
executing a cession of action. 

Held also, that though the plaintiff could re- 
cover the mere money debt from the defendant 
without such cession, it was equitable that 
plaintiff should be given' recourse to the mort- 
gage security, which he could not reach (being 
land) without such cession in writing. 

Held also, that cession, [if not made the con- 
dition of the payment], must be claimed within 
a reasonable time after payment. 

D. C. Kalutara, 36,176. Hendrich v. Frederick 

2. — Principal and Surety — Continuing guarantee, 
revocation of, by death of gu-aranfor — Liahility of 
guarantor's heirs — Negligence of principal obli- 
gor's employer. 

The first defendant as principal, and the three 
other defendants as his sureties, were the obligors 
upon a bond conditioned for the due accounting 
by first defendant to the Crown for all moneys 
received by him in the performance of his office. 
The Crown now sued the first defendant and the 
heirs of the sureties to recover an amount un- 
accounted for, being sums received by the first 
defendant for the four years 1878-81. 

Answer : 1st that no debt was due by the 
principal. The Court below found there was. 

2nd, that the sureties had died before the de- 
faults relied upon had been committed by the 
principal. 

Held ^ad for not averring notice of such death 
to the obligee ; also not established by proof of 
such notice. 

3rd, that the gross negligence of the obligee, in 
ooutinuing for four years the principal'a employ- 



Page 



xlviii DIGEST. 

.Principal «d Bur^-ca^ ^^^^ 

ment, when he had faOed to aeooant for ike 
receipts of the first year, relieyed the sureties 
from liability. 

It appearing that the sum tmacconnted for, 
for the first year, was Bs. 8.66, 

Held, that the defence was not sustained. 

D. 0. Kandy, 89,110. The Queen's Advocate v. 
Jjokii Ba/ndcL ... ... ... ... ... ... 381 



See MoETOAGE, 4. 

— BEGISTBi.TI0N. 

FHvy Council 

See Fbactice, 2. 
Proctor 

See Ckeast. 

— JUBISDICTIOir, 4. 

— Police Couet. 

Promissorj note 

See Stamp, 1. 
Proof of claims 

See Insolvency, 4. 
Property mortgaged, third party in possession of 

See MoBTGAGE, 3. 

Property sold other than debtor's 

See Fiscal, 1. 

Proseention 

Prosecution, commencement of — Tvmher Ordi^ 
nance, No, 6 of 1878 — Limitation of prosecution 
"^Sentence, 

The defendant was on 7th November 1879 
charged before a Justice of the- Peace with a 
breach of the Timher Ordinance, 1878, committed 
on 16th January 1879. After evidence taken, 
the case was on 5th April 1880 laid over sine die. 
Summons was re-issued on defendant in June 
1882, and after further proceedings defendant 
was on 21st September committed for trials and 



i 



D I G It S T. Xlil 

Prosacntion—con^. 

Page 
was arraigned and tried on 2nd November 1882. 
He was found guilty and fined Bs. 100. 

Held, that the prosecution did not commence 
upon the presentment of the indictment at the 
trial, but must be regarded as haying been on 
foot at the date of the committal for trial. 

As the charge on which the defendant had 
been committed and been tried was not dehors 
the charge contained in the original information, 

Meld, that the prosecution commenced when 
the defendant appeared to the summons, and 
that therefore ic bad been begun within the 
period limited by section 16 of the Tvmber Ordi- 
nance, 1878, 

It appearing that the defendant had committ- 
ed the offence in the hond fide belief of owner- 
ship, and that he had been cast in damages in a 
civil suit for the land concerned, 

Held, that the fine of Bs. 100 was excessive, 
and ought to have been merely nominal. 

D. C. Or. Galle, 11,075. The Queen v. Perera. 129 
See Transfer of prosbcutiok. 
Prosaention at instaaoa of tha Gonrt 
8ee Judge, 2. 

Pablioum stabnlnm 

See Cattle Trespass. 

Pnrchasa in axecution 

See Mortgage, 2. 
— Mortgage, 9. 

Pnttmg casas in avidanca 

See Condictio inbebiti. 
Quaan'a Advocata 

See Jurisdiction, 3. 
service 

See Master and servant. 
Bating Enactment 

See Crown, 



1 D I G S S t. 

Bfoftmd of piireluuie^monay 

Pags 

See Mo&TeAGX, 2. 

Svgifltration 

BegUtraHon-^PHoHty'^Ordmance S of 1863, 
section Z^-^ConflicHng sales hy the Fiscaf of the 
same land — Fraud — Mortgage created pendmg 
seizure^^Ordn/nance 4 of 1867, secUon 42. 

The defendant^ on 14th Septemher 1880, 
bought a pieoe of kmd at a sale in execution 
of a money jndgment reooiTOTed bj him against 
B,, and obtained a conyeyance from the Fiscal on 
i!2l8t Febraary 1882» which was registered on 
( 11th March following. Fending seisore under 
defendant's writ, S. mortgaged the land to plain- 
tiff. PlaintifE put this bond in suit on 3rd 
December 1880, obtained a simple money judg- 
ment on it, had the land sold in execution on 
17th Febmary 1881, and purchased it him- 
self. Plaintiff obtained his conveyance from 
the Fiscal on 24th February 1882, and register- 
ed it on the 27th. Plaintiff now sought to be 
quieted in possession against defendant, who set 
up her own title. 

Held, that though plaintiff's mortgage was 
inraiid by the operation of section 42 of the 
Fiscals Ordina/nce, yet his money judgment was 
not affected thereby^ 

Held also, that in the absence of any proof of 
fraud, plaintiff's conveyance prevailed, by virtuo 
of section 39 of Ordinance 8 of 1863, and he was 
entitled to the decree prayed for. 

D. C. Negombo, 12,730. Silva v. Sarah Hamy 383 

See MOETGAGE, 4. 

— Ship. 
Regulation 13 of 1822 

See Sbevitude. 
Rent 

See LAin)LOKD Aim Tenaitt. 
ReBcission of order 

See Insolvency, 4. 
Resistance 

See Assault, 



Uriels St. li 

'^ Bight, iaM« tatdL intevejit''' 

Pagi 

See MoKTGAGE,. 6. 
BQtbberjr 

See OONSIBXRATIOK. 

Botmaji Dutch Law 

See Gbown. 

Sale ht ezeeiitioifc. 

See Fiscal, 2. 

— Fiscal, 6. 

— Fiscal, T. 

Secretary ef oluh 

See Oltjb. 
Secretary of Ktuticipality- 

See Pbetsbence Aim CoKctr&AEKCE, tw 
Security in appeal 

See Fbachcb, 2. 
Security to keep the peace. 

Securihf to Jee&p ihe peace^^Ordmance 11 of" 
1868, sect 229 — Be/used to^ require secwrity'^ 
Aj^peaZdble order* 

Eeld^ {per DiAS, J., duhittmte Gbenier, J.) that 
the order of a Justice of the Peace, refusiag to« 
require the defendants to give secoritjr to keep- 
the peace, was an appealable order^ 

J.P. Colombo, 2,994. Matikm y. OarolU ..« 239 
Seisure 

£fee MoBTOAGE, 6. 

— ESGISTBATIOK. 

Sentence 

See Conr OfiBnrANOE* 

••• PlbOflBGITTQK. 



lii DIGEST. 

Servitude 

Servitude ne laminibus officiatur—- ^c^itm^on. 
by preacripime posseBsicfn — ^Juris quasi possessio 
'•^Ten years* unrnterrwpted enjoyment — Ordi' 
ncmce 8 of 1884, aeist, 2 — Ordmance 22 of 1871, 
sect. 3 — Kcmdyan Provmcea, la/uo in force in-^ 
Regulation 13 of 1822- — Orddm^ance 5 of 1852, 
«eci. 5. 

Plaintiff and defendant owned adjoining lands. 
Plaintiff's house stood dose to the boundarj, 
and his sitting-room and bed-room had windows 
looking out on defendant's land, through which 
plaintiff had for over ten years uninterruptedly 
enjoyed light and air. Defendant began to build 
on her own land so as to exclude such light and 
air from plaintiff's windows, and plaintiff sought 
an injunction to restrain her from so doing. 

Held, that the servitude claimed by the plain- 
tiff (ne hindnihua officiatur), being a negative 
servitude, could not, under the IU>man Dutch 
Law, be acquired by prescription in virtue of 
bare enjoyment for the necessary period, such 
enjoyment involving no invasion of the neigh- 
bour's domimum. 

The Regulation 13 of 1822 repealed '' all laws 
heretofore enacted or customs existing" in the 
maritime districts of the Island " with respect to 
the acquiring of rights or the barring of civil 
actions by prescription" ; and this repeal was 
kept alive by the subsequent Ordinances^ 8 of 
1834 and 22 oi 1871. Ordinance 5 of 1852, sect. 
5, provided that, on a casus onUaaua arising in 
the Elandyan Provinces, resort should be had to 
the law on the subject in force in the maritime 
provinces. 

Hhld, that consequently the Boman Dutch 
Law on the subject of prescription was in effect 
repealed for the Kandyan Country also. 

There being no local Kandyan law on the sub- 
ject of prescription, and the case therefore fall- 
ing unaer Ordinance 8 of 1834 or Ordinance 22 
of 1871, 

Heid, (following C. B, Point Pedro 41), that 
ten years' enjoyment of the use, convenience 
or advantage, which would be enjoyed by the 
owner of the dominant tenement if there were a 
servitude in existence, brings the corresponding 
servitude into existence, by virtue of sect. 2 of 
Ordinance 8 of 1834 (corresponding to sect. 3 of 
Ordinance 22 of 1871) ; and that the plaintiff, 
having had the uninterrupted enjoyment (with- 
out express permission or licence) of these win- 
dow-lightSy deriving light from d^fendaat's laad^ 



Page 



J) I G E S T. Hm 

Servitnde^-cofi^c?. 

PiLGJB 

was entitled to have the defendant restrained by 
perpetual iojunctioa from building so as to 
obscure them. 

0. B, Point Pedro 41 (Bam. 1860-62, 75) dis- 
sented from by Clabencs, J. 

D. C. Kandy, 89,917. Neate v. De Abifew.. ... 188; 
Setting aside Fiscal's sale 



Ship 



See Fiscal, 3. 
— Fiscal, 7. 



British Ship — Begiatration — 17 <md 18 Vict. a. 
104, 8, 107 — Fraudulent BegistrcUion. 

Plaintiff sued to have a declaration of title to 
one-half of a dhoney, of which defendants were 
in the unlawful possession, the first defendant; 
being entitled to the other half* The Court 
below found that the defendants had repaired 
the dhoney and fraudulently had it registered a^ 
their exclusive property under a different name; 

Held, that plaintiff was not shut out by the 
registration from showing her title, notwith- 
standing that she had taken no steps to have 
her own title registered in accordance with the 
f£erch(mt SMpping Act, 1854. 

D. 0. Elalutara, 85,733. Ana v« Vieaenty Naide 21 



Stamp 



1. — Stamp, cancellaiion of, tmder sect 9 of Ord. 23 
of 1871 — Adoptum hy maker of promissory note 
of Stamp'Vendor^s date on stamp— Completed note 
handed hy maker to payeer^-Estoppel, 

Plaintiff as payee sued the maker of a promis- 
sory note dated 21st April 1879, which defendant 
impugned as a forgery. The stamp on the note 
was affixed at the left-hand top corner of the 
paper and had the maker's name written across 
it. It bore also some illegible initials and 
under them the date 21-4-79 apparently put 
by the stamp-vendor. The Court below after 
evidence called for the plaintiff held the note not 
duly stamped and nonsuited the plaintiff. 

Held (following D. 0. Colombo 63,498, Civ. 
mm, ofS.G., 13th July 1875) that, the stamp- 
vendor's date on the stamp being even with the 
date of execution of the instrument, the maker 
must be taken in cancelling the utamp with his 



VlV M6BST. 



Stamp — c(mtd. 



Pagb 



signatnre to hare adopted the date ab^ady o& 
the stamp as his date of cancellation, and that 
therefore the stamp was duly cancelled as re-' 
qnired by section 9 of the Stamp Ordinance, and 
consequently the note was duly stamped. 

Semhle, that if the maker had tendered to the 
payee the note in question as a note dufy stamp- 
ed and signed by himself — the appearance of the 
note itself being consistent with its being such 
— the Court would accept the not© as duly 
stamped, until defendant showed the contrary, 
subject to any question of estoppel. 

0. B. Colombo, 30,492: Cannen A%sary v. 
ArwniQAalemh AB%wr% 41 

2j~'8tamp'^Deficiency ofaiannp — Stamvpmg at trial 
onpayTnent of penalty-^" Original" "Duplicate" 
" Notary* 8 Protocol** — Evidence-^Ordn/nance 19 of 
Id^^^Ordinance 23 of 1871, sects, 36^ 39 and 40. 

. The value of the stamps to be affixed to an in- 
strument mast be determined by the law in force 
at the date of the instrument.. But when an 
instrument,, upon its tender in evidence, is held 
to be insufficiently stampedj the procedure for 
stamping it at the trial, and tne amount of .. 
penalty payable, must be determined by the 
stamp law m force at the time of such tender. 

When a notarial instrument has been ezeeuted 
in three copies (called respectively the " Origi- 
naU** "Duplicate," and *-Notary*^B Protocol"), 
neither of these copies is receivable in evidence 
unless and until the proper stamp duty has been 
paid upon each and every copy. 

D. 0. Chilaw, 23^482. T^wa y. Wijesvnghe..,, 26$ 

Stamping^ at trial 

See Staup, 2. 

Stamp-vendor's date^ 

See Stamp, 1. 
Statement of olpectioas 

See PiflCAL, 7. 

Stay of prooeediags 

See P&ACTICB, 3. 



Fags 



DIGEST. 

Stock, liv« and dead 

See M0BT6A6E, 7. 
Succession 

See Inhsritancs. 
Summary proeeedings 

See Fiscal, 7. 
.--* Insolyxnct, 2. 

Surety 

566 Fbinoipal and Surety. 
Surrender of property to Insolvent 

See IN80LVENCT, 3. 
Surviving spouse 

See Administeation. 

— Husband and wife. 

Territorial jurisdiction 

See Contempt op Court. 

— Tbanspsr OB prosecution, 

Theft 

Theflr^Amnms iuvandi-^Debt dt^e lo defendant 

Defendant was charged with the thef fc of certain 
jewels and a snm of Bs. 17. The evidence 
showed that the property had been taken from 
the dead body of a woman who at the time of her 
death was defendant's debtor on a promissory 
note. Defendant had also taken the jewels in 
the presence of neighbours, to whom he had de- 
clared that he took them as security till his debt 
should be paid. 

Held, that this evidence disclosed an absence 
of the an/imua furandd, and that defendant was 
entitled to be acquitted on the charge of theft. 

D. C. Cr. Kurunegala, 2,036. KddirawaU t. 
, Kader Mee&in 103 

Third parties in possession of mortgaged property 

See Mortgage, 3. 

— Mortgage, 4. 

— Mortgage, 8. 



Ivi DIGEST. 

Tlireatening l>odily harm 

See Assault, 2. 
Timber Ordiaanee 

See Fbosbcution. 
Title 

Title to land — Donor conveymg without title, 
hut subsequently acquvring titl&^-'Volunta/ry con- 
veyance, 

S., being owner of one half plvs one-fifth of a 
certain land, conveyed the whole land by way of 
gift to plaintiff, his son-in-law, on 25th January 
1872. S. acquired titltf to the remainder soon 
afterwards. Plaintiff now alleged an ouster from 
possession by defendants, the widow and oer* 
tain children of S. 

Held, that plaintiff was entitled to judgment 
for whatever S. owned at the date of his convey- 
ance to plaintiff, but that, that conveyance being 
a merely voluntary one, the title subsequently 
acquired by S. did not pass to plaintiff there- 
under. 

Tt appearing that S. was by arrangement al- 
lowed to possess the subject matter of the gift 
until his death, 

Heldf that fourth defendant, who was a lessee 
for an unexpired term under S., was entitled to 
be absolved from the instance, plaintiff haying 
.left it in the power of S. to deal with the pro- 
perty. 

D. C. Matara, 31,034. Mathes v. Punchyhamy 122 



ToU 



Toll— Ordinance No, 14 o/1867, sections 17, 18 
^-Evasion of toll — ** One mile from the ferry J'* 

Section 18 of the Toll Ordinance, 1867 enacts 
that " if any person, not being a duly appointed 

toll-keeper, shall convey any goods, 

or any passenger not in his service, across any 
river or stream either at or within a dis- 
tance of one mile above or below any road, 
bridge, ferry, canal, or place at which tolls shall 
be leviable such person shall be guilty of an 
offence." 

Held, that the intention of the Ordinance 
seemed to be to mark out » belt of two miles of 
water, one mile on each side of the ferry, within 



DIGEST. Ivii 

Toll— con^. 

Paob 
which two miles no person is to cross from one 
bank to the other except by the ferry. 

One of the toll-houses in the present case was 
situated at the end of a causeway projecting 
from the mainland into the sea, the other being 
on an island opposite. The defendant's boat, 
starting at a point half a mile from the root of 
the causeway, passed between the toll-houses, 
and landed its cargo on the island at a point two 
miles from the toll-house on the island. 

Held, that defendant had not committed a 
breach of section 18. 

Semble, that if the landing place had been 
within the mile, the defendant would have been 
liable, notwithstanding that his starting-place at 
the root of the causeway was more than a mile 
distant from the toll-house at the end of the 
causeway, but within the two-mile belt. 

F. 0. Mannar, 5,785. 8<wervmwtto v. Baatian 271 
Trangf«r of proseoiition 

Tromafer of Prosecution hy Sttpreme Court-^^ 
Ord, No. 11 0/1868, aecU. 22 avhd 119— Od. No. 
7 of 1874, sect 1—^' Try." 



Upon a transfer of a prosecution by the 
Supreme Court from the District Court of Ne- 
gombo to that of Colombo after information filed 
in the former court by its Secretary, the District 
Judge of Colombo quashed another mdictment for 
the same offence tendered by the Deputy Queen's 
Advocate, holding that the accused should be 
tried, if at all, on the information originally filed 
in the Negombo Court, and holding also that 
under sect. 1 of Ord. No. 7 of 1874« he had power 
only to l/ry, and not to hea/r <md detervnme, any 
prosecution before him by virtue of that section. 

Held, that the order quashing the indictment 
was wrong, and that the Queen's Advocate could 
prosecute either on the original information or 
on any other he chose to tender. 

Held also, that the word ** try" in sect. 1 of the 
Ord. of 1874 must be construed as giving the 
District Court power also to hear and determine 
the matter of any prosecution before it by the 
Queen's Advocate. 

D. C. Cr. Negombo, 537 \ The Queen v. Herat 

D. C. Cr. Colombo, 356 j Singho 67 

See JuBiSDicTioi^j 2. 



iTlii J) I S 1 1 T. 

Trespasser 

Page 
BeB LmoR and Lissm. 

Trial 

800 Absault, S. 
Trust 

See Mo&TOAfis, 1. 

Ultra vires 

See Local Boabd. 

Unoertaiiity of ee&vietionL 

Bee YAfAAHT, 2. 
Unlawftil oonsiA ^ra ttOBi 

See CoNSID£EATION. 

imiawftil purpose 

Bee Vagkaht, 1. 

ITsLseoiired oreditorSf rights of 

Bee MoKTGAOE, 5. 

Vagrant 

X.-^Vagrante Ordinance, 4 qfl841, sect. 4, evhseei. 
&^-^Found in Jioueefor unlouwful ptMrpoee-^Farni' 
caiion. 

The purpose of committing secret fomication 
is not an '' nnlawfal porpose^^ within the mean- 
ing of subsect. 6 <£ sect. 4 of the Fo^ronts Or^ 
tiance, 1841. 

P. 0. Chilaw, 14,398. Modder ▼. Tfeomw ... 237 

^^-^Va^Ta/rds Ordmcmee, 4 of 1841, sect. 4, sinheecL 
4i~~Qammg'^Alternaiwe chargee-^Naming of d&- 
fendawts in plaint^^CoivoicUon, wa,certaiiity of-^ 
AccowpUce, evidence of. 

P{a^<— That in breach of the 4th secti<^n of 
the 4th clause of the Ordinance No. 4 of 1841 thp 
the 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th and 10th 
did game, play or bet with dice on the night of 
the 26th January instant at Timbirigasccftoa in 
a shed kept or used by 1st defendant for com- 
mon and promiscuous gaming. 



I DIGEST. lis 

Vagrant— con/d. 
Pah Pa»k 

Upon appeal against a general verdict of 
•* guilty," 

Held, that the conviction was bad for uncer- 
tainty, and (there being nothing on the record 
by which it could be amended) must be quashed. 
Observations on the form of plaints, and on 
the evidence of accomplices. 

P. 0. Negombo, 51,383. Silva v. 8iha, ... 281 
Yeotigalia 

See Obown. 

Voluntary donation 

See Donation. 
— Title. 

Warrant and defend title 

See LsBSOs and Lessee. 
Warrant of arrest 

See Assault, 2. 
Wiiarf and Warelionee Compaay 

See Consignee. 

Witness 

See Evidence, 1. 
•— Evidence, 2. 



37 



< H 



