i I I I I I I I I I I IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA In the matter of an application for mandate, in the nature of a writ of Certiorari under Article 140 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. ******* 1. Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage Ekanayake Banda Kabilla, Makulwewa. 2. Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage Rathnayake Banda C.A. Application No.577/2011 Kabilla, Makulwewa. PETITIONERS Vs 1. Divisional Secretary Ganewatta. 2. Registrar of Land Kurunegala 3. Weerasinghe Seelawathie Walpola, Nelumdeniya. 4. Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage M udiyanselage Dissanayake (deceased) Kabilla, Makulwewa. 1 t I f t t I 4A. Obberiyalage Manikhami I 4B. Weerasinghe Mudiyanselage Aruna ~ f Chaminda l Both of I ~ Kabilla, , I Makulwewa. i i , 4C. Weerasinghe M udiyanselage ~ i i Nishanthi Kumari , No.6, Walasgala Road, Palugolla, Hiriyala, r Ambagaswewa. t RESPONDENTS i I I t t t : Deepali Wijesundera J. [ I BEFORE t COUNSEL : Chula Bandara with f M.L.R. De Silva for the I ~ i. Petitioners. f Yuresha Fernando S.S.C. for the I I 1 st Respondent. ! l Nuwan Bopage with ! ! ! I l Lahiru Walgama for the 4A, 4B ! I And 4C Respondents. I I I DECIDED ON : 11th November, 2014 I : 26th February, 2016 ! I I ARGUED ON I , I I ! I 2 r ~ ! ; I I 1 I I Deepali Wijesundera J. The petitioners have filed this application praying for a writ of certiorari to quash the decision of the first respondent to treat the land grant KuruIPral24975 date 23108/1990 marked P2 as cancelled in view of P4 dated 27/09/1997 and also to quash the decision to issue P7 and P8 both dated 27/09/2000. The father of the petitioners and third and fourth respondents W.M. Ranbanda was granted a land in terms of the provisions of the Land Development Ordinance for the land shown as lot no. 29 in plan marked as R1 and R2. The said Ranbanda had nominated the third respondent namely W.M. Seelawathi as the successor to the property. The third respondent by a letter dated 25/05/1988 has given her consent for the first petitioner to construct a house and occupy a portion of the land. By P2 on 23/08/1990 the third respondent was given a grant by the President. The third respondent in 1997 by a declaration had renounced all her rights and given the land back to the state. At the same time she has requested the first respondent to transfer the said land to the first and second petitioners and the fourth respondent, all her siblings. The first respondent after registering and accepting the said 3 renunciation by the third respondent after surveying the land had issued permits to first and second petitioners. The first respondent has also issued two permits to the fourth respondent marked as P7 and P8. The learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that first respondent did not have legal authority to accept the surrender of the grant P2 given to the third respondent. He stated that in terms of section 3 of the State Land Ordinance the grantee has to apply to the President to accept the surrender of the land and to re grant the land. The petitioners further submitted that the first respondent has failed to indicate the manner in which he had decided to accept the surrender of the grant as per R6 circular. He stated that the first respondent had acted in excess of authority to hold and inquiry and issue new permits under the provisions of the Land Development Ordinance. He said the actions of the first respondent are illegal, arbitrary and ultra vires. Learned counsel for the respondents stated that the petitioner's nomination was never registered under Sec. 58 (1) and Sec. 60 of the Land Development Ordinance therefore they have no rights from the 4 original permit holder. He cited the judgment in Madurasinghe vs Madurasinghe 2 SLR 1421988. The respondents stated that as the land grant was surrendered to the state, the first respondent being the competent authority to deal with state land could issue permits on the said land. The respondents further submitted that all permits and grants issued under the Land Development Ordinance are subjected to the provisions of the said ordinance and in the event of any such instrument is surrendered, cancelled or deemed void ab initio it is the prerogative of the respective functionary to once again issue permits under the relevant sections (sec. 19). The fourth respondent stated that the petitioners are guilty of laches and that the fourth respondents were given land by the state (Q1 and Q2). Section 58 (1) of the Land Development Ordinance states thus; 5 "A document (other than a last will) whereby the nomination 0/ a successor is effected or cancelled shall not be valid unless and until it has been registered by the Registrar 0/ Lands 0/ the district in which the holding or land to which that document refers is situated". Sec. 60 of the Land Development Ordinance (as amended) states thus; "No nomination or cancellation 0/ the nomination 0/ a successor shall be valid unless the document (other than a last will) effecting such nomination or cancellation is duly registered be/ore the date 0/ the death 0/ the owner 0/ the holding or the permit holder". Under the above provisions the petitioners nomination by the third respondent has not been duly registered therefore they do not get any rights on the third respondent's nomination. Document marked P2 which the petitioners are seeking to quash by way of a writ of certiorari is a State Grant given by the President which cannot be quashed by way of a writ. Documents P7 and P8 are 6 I i t I ~ f i t. { i I ! I f I ; t i f ~ t I i f ~ f ! , f ~ i ! I I I ! ! I ! ! I I I I I i f , 1 ! I j f 1 J I I i I I I I i I I I I I I ! permits given by the first respondent in the year 2000. This was given after an inquiry and also after the third respondent renunciated her rights which were duly registered. Thereafter the first respondent who was the competent authority to issue permits has granted P7 and P8. The petitioners after waiting for almost eleven years after permits were issued have filed the instant application. As stated by the fourth respondent it could be said that the petitioners are guilty of laches as well. In Madurasinghe vs Madurasinghe Chief Justice Parinda Ranasinghe has confirmed the mandatory nature of this provisions and the inability to rectify administrative lapses retrospectively. The nomination of the petitioners by the third respondent was not registered as required by the Land Development Ordinance. For the afore stated reasons this court decide to refuse the application of the petitioners with costs fixed at RS. 25,000/= JUDGE OF THE COURT OF APPEAL 7