OJomrll  IGatu  irtinol  ICtbrary 


3   1924  084   191    414_^ 


The  original  of  tinis  book  is  in 
tine  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924084191414 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  GASES 

OF      CEYLON: 


BEING 

Reports   a(   Cues  decided  by   the  Supreme  Court  of   Ceyloa  in   its  Original  and 

Appellate   Jurisdiction,    and   sitting   as   a  Colonial   Court    of 

Admiralty  and  by  His  Majesty's  Privy  Council 

on   Appeal   from   Ceylon. 


EDITED    BT 

A.     St.     V.     JAYEWARDENE. 

BarHster-ut-Luiv. 
L.     H.     De    ALWIS, 

JAMES    JOSEPH, 

"  I 
E.     G.     P.     JAYETILEKE, 

Advocates  of  tlie. 

SUPREME    COURT. 


Vol.  I.,    Part  12.  OCTOBEI^,  1912. 


COLOMBO- 

PBINXUD  AT   THE    CEYLON' EXAMINE K   PUESS 


19  18. 


•c.  E.  p."  laaa 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES 

OF    CEYLON: 

BEING 

Reports  of  Cases  Decided  by  the  Supreme  Cotjbt  of  Ceylon  in 

ITS  original  and  appellate  jurisdiction  and  sitting  as  a 

Colonial  Court  op  Admiralty  and  by  His  Majesty's 

Privy  Council  on  appeal  from  Ceylon. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASBB 

OP   CEYLON 

BEING 

Cases  Decided  by  the  Supreme   Cotjst   of  Ceylon,  the  Cotjet  op 

Vicb-Admiealty  of  Ceylon,  and  by  His  Majesty 

THE  King  in  the  Peivy  Council. 

-^    -   •■»• 

DEONIS  ~w7  MISvSI    NONA. 
Samarasiaghe — Intervenienl. 

No.  7931  D.  0.  Galle. 

Present:  Lascelles  C.  J.  and  MMdleton  J.  I 

ISth    November   19  11. 

Jiidg nient — Decree — Amendment  after  pasnini)  the  seal  nf  the  Court, 
see.  1S9  Civil  Procedure  Code — Inherent  Jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme  Court- 

A  decree  cannot  be  amended  except  as  provided  by  section  189  of 
the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  Apart  from  the  provisions  of  the  Civil  Pro- 
cedure Code,  the  Supreme  Court  has  power  to  amend  its  decrees  so  as  to 
bring  them  in  accordance  vrith  its  intention  as  expressed  in  the  judgment. 
But  it  has  no  povrer  to  supply  an  omission  which  has  occurred  through 
inadvertence  after  the  decree  has  passed  its  seal. 

This  action  was  one  for  partition  of  land.  The  present 
applicant  intervened  claiming  a  portion  of  the  land  sought  to 
be  partitioned,  and  prayed  that  it  be  excluded  from  the 
partition.  His  claim  was  dismissed  with  costs.  On  appeal 
the  Supreme  Court,  on  the  28th  August  1911,  varied  the 
judgment  of  the  District  Judge  by  allowing  the  appellant's 
claim  with  the  costs  of  appeal ;  but  no   order  was  made  as 


2  COURT     OF    APPEAL     OASES 

Deonisv.  to  the  costs  of  the  contention  in  the  lower  Court.  Decree 
«-'  '^o" '  was  thereafter  duly  drawn  up  in  conformity  with  the  judg- 
ment, stamped  with  the  seal  of  the  Supreme  Court,  and 
the  record  was  returned  to  the  District  Court.  On  the  8th 
November  1911,  the  appellant  made  the  present  application 
to  amend  the  decree  of  the  Supreme  Court  by  inserting  an 
order  directing  the  respondent  to  pay  his  costs  of  the  con- 
tention in  the  District  Court. 

Bawa  for  appellant.— In  all  cases  of  appeal  where  the 
costs  are  not  mentioned  ia  the  decree  of  the  Supreme  Court, 
the  rule  is  that  the  appellant  shall  be  entitled  to  recover  his 
costs  when  the  decree  of  the  lower  Court  is  entirely  reversed. 
I.  Thomson  485.  When  a  decree  is  entered  omitting  an  order 
as  to  costs,  it  may  be  amended  by  adding  such  order. 
Sinmppu  v.  Punchappu;^  Garlill  &  Co.,  v.  Bawter.z 
This  Court  has  inherent  power  to  make  the  amendment 
asked  for.  The  order,  as  it  stands  now,  is  absurd,  as  the 
appellant  has  to  pay  the  coats  of  a    contention   in    which    he 

has  been  successful. 

f 
A,  St.  V.  Jayewardene  (Jayetileke  with  him)  for  res- 
pondent.— 1.  Thomson  485  refers  only  to  costs  of  appeal 
when  the  judgment  of  the  Supreme  Court  makes  no  order  at 
all  as  to  costs.  The  judgment  was  pronounced  in  open  Court 
as  required  by  §  774  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  that 
provision  is  intended  to  give  parties  an  opportunity  of  point- 
ing out  any  error  or  omission.  If  no  error  or  omission  is 
then  pointed  out  and  the  decree  passes  the  seal  of  the 
Court  the  Supreme  Court  cannot  amend  the  decree  except  as 
provided  by  §  189  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  The  Court, 
in  adjusting  the  payment  of  costs,  is  influenced  by  various 
considerations,  and  it  is  difficult  to  recall  at  this  distance  of 
time  what    tranpsired   at  the  argument  of   the   appeal.     It 

Z     (ZS92)  I.  8.  C.  R.    121  2.     ilf!99)    I.  Tarn?)  IS. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 


may  be,  the  Supreme  Court  thought  the  appellant  who  inter- 
vened several  years  after  the  institution  of  the  action 
should  pay  the  Respondent's  costs  in  the  lower  Court.  The 
head-note  to  Sinnappu  vs.  Punchappu^  is  misleading.  It  is 
no  authority  for  the  proposition  that  a  decree  can  be  amend- 
ed, but  it  only  provides  that  a  decree  cannot  be  amended  on 
an  ex  parte  application.  The  Supreme  Court,  as  it  now 
atands,  was  constituted  by  Ordinance  No.  1  of  1889  and  has 
the  powers  which  are  expressly  or  impliedly  given  to  it  by 
that  statute  and  no  other.  In  the  matter  of  the  Election  of  a 
member  of  the  local  Board  of  Jaffna.^ 
Bawa   in  reply.  c.   a.   v. 

Lascelles  C  J. — This  is  a  motion  by  the  appellant  to 
*mend  the  decree  of  this  Court  by  ordering  the  respondent  to 
pay  the  appellant's  costs  of  contention  in  the  District 
Court.  In  the  District  Court  the  appellant  had  failed  in  his 
contention,  and  was  ordered  to  pay  the  respondent's  costs. 
On  appeal,  however,  the  appellant  succeeded  in  his  contention 
and  was  allowed  the  costs  of  appeal,  but  the  judgment  and 
decree  of  this  Court  are  both  silent  as  to  the  costs  in  the 
Court  below,  with  the  result  that  the  order  of  the  District 
Court  stands  and  the  appellant  is  still  liable  to  pay  the  res- 
pondent's costs  in  the  Court  below. 

There  can ,  I  think,  be  no  doubt  but  that  the  omission  to 
make  order  with  regard  to  the  costs  in  the  Court  below  was 
due   to   an  oversight. 

Judgment  was  pronounced  in  open  Court  on  the  28th 
August  1911  at  the  close  of  the  argument,  and  the  present 
motion,  if  made  on  that  date  or  at  any  time  before  the  decree 
was  perfected,  would  almost  certainly  have  been  successful. 
The  question  for  decision  is  whether  the  application  can  be 
Allowed  at  this  stage. 

Seetion  189  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  empowers  a 
1.    I.  S.  C.  R.  121.  2.    I.  A.  C.  B.  lis. 


Oeonis  v, 
Missi  Nona 


Lascelles 
C.  J. 


COURT    OP    APPEAL     GASES 


Deonis  v, 

Missi  Nona. 


Lascelles 
C.J. 


Court  to  amend  its  decree  on  certain  specified  grounds,  name- 
ly, if  the  decree  is  at  variance  with  the  judgment  .or  on 
account  of  clerical  and  arithmetical  errors,  but  obviously 
none  of  these  grounds  are  available  in  the  present  case. 

The  question,  in  substance,  is  whether  it  is  competent 
to  a  Court  to  amend  its  decree  on  grounds  other  than  those 
stated  in  section  189. 

The  correction  which  is  now  sought  for  appears  to  be 
one  which  could  have  been  made  under  the  English  Slip 
Order  {0.  28  r.  II,)  in  re  Budd,i  but  that  order  is  wider  in  its 
scope  than  section  189  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  in  as 
much  as  it  provides  for  errors  arising  from  accidental  slips 
or  omissions  and  is  not  limited  to  the  correction  of  variations 
between  the  judgment  and  decree  and  clerical  or  arithmetical 
errors. 

The  question  then  arises  whether  the  Supreme  Court 
possesses  inherent  power  to  make  an  amendment  of  this 
nature.  That  this  Court,  quite  apart  from  the  provisions  of 
the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  has  power  to  amend  its  decrees  so 
as  to  bring  them  in  accordance  with  its  intention  as  expressed 
in  its  judgment,  can  hardly  be  doubted.  But  it  is  another 
matter,  after  a  decree  has  passed  the  seal,  to  supply  n 
omission  which  has  occurred  through  inadvertence. 

In  India  it  has  been  held  under  the  corresponding 
Sec.  206  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  of  1882  that  a  Court 
should  not  amend  except  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the 
section,  Abdul  Hayai  Khan  v.  Ghunia  Kuar.^  and  in 
England  it  has  been  held  that  a  Court  cannot  correct  a 
mistake  of  its  own  after  the  judgment  has  been  perfected 
even  though  the  error  be  apparent  on  the  face  of  the  judge 
ment.  Charles  Bright  &  (lo.,  Ltd.  v.  Sellar.^ 

In  the  face  of  these  authorities  and  in  the  absence  of 
any  provision  in  the  Courts  Ordinance  from  which  it    can  be 

J.    (.?SS7)    W.  TV.  p.  251.  (2)     «  ^u  p.  377 

(J)     (190f)     I.K.B.p.G.  ^ 


J.J. 


ABDUL    RAHIM     v.     HASAMAL 
No.  3,1848  D.  C.  Colombo. 

Present :    Wood-Renton  and  Grenier 

1st    December    1911. 

Overholdiwi    Lessee —  Trespasser — Vi  nd  lot  I  iv    I)a  ni  mjex . 

A  lessee  who  overholds  the  leased  premises  after  the  expiry  of  ths 
term  of  his  lease  is  a  trespasser,  and  in  actions  of  trespass,  even  when 
there  is  no  special  damag-e,  the  court  or  jury  are  no4  limited  to  the 
actual  injury  inflicted,  but  may  take  all  the  circumstances  of  the  case 
into  consideration. 

Both  under  the  Roman-Dutch  and  under  the  English  law  a 
trespasser  is  treated  as  a  person  who  may  suitably  be  punished  with 
Tindiotive  damages. 

This  was  an  action  instituted  by  the  plaintiS  for  the 
recovery  of  R421"23,  being  damages  sustained  by  him  by 
reason  of  the  defendant's  over-holding  certain  premises 
leased  to  him,  after  the  30th  September,  1910,  the  date  of 
the  expiry  of  the  lease.  The  plaintiff  having  re-leased  the 
said  premises  to  one  Tholchichand  for  a  period  of  two  years, 
commencing  from  1st  October  1910,  at  a  monthly  rental  of 
RICO,  was  unable  to  put  the  latter  into  possession,  owing 
to  the  defendant's  failure  to  quit  the  premises  on  the  expirat- 
ion of  the  lease,  In  an  action  brought  by  Tholchichand, 
the  plaintiff  was  condemned  to  pay  the  sum  of  R154'23  as 
damages  for  failure  to  put  the  lessee  into  possession  and 
the  lease  was  declared  cancelled.     The  plaintiff  subsequently 


Middlcton 
J. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES  i 

iia{)lied  that  the  Supreme  Court  possesses  inherent  power  to     °™°'^  '■ 
make  a  correction  of  this  nature,  I  am  obliged  to  hold,  with 
some  reluctance,  that  we  are   unable  at  this  stage,    to  accede 
to  this  motion.      The  motion  is  dismissed  with  costs. 

Middleton  J.     I   agree . 

Proctor  for  Appellant — W.  E.  W eerasoariya, . 

Proctor  for  Respondent — Henry  Gooneratne. 


COURT    OP    APPEAL    GASES 


Abdul 
Rahim  v, 
Hasamal' 

Wood 
Renton  J. 


leased  the  said  premises  for  a  period  of  three  years,  at  a 
rental  of  R125  a  luonth,  commencing  from  1st  December^ 
1910,    to  one  Alagappa  Chetty. 

In  his  answer,  the  defendant  denied  liability,  alleging 
that  the  plaintiff  had  suffered  no  damages  but  had  rather 
gained  by  reason  of  the  second  lease  bringing  him  a  higher 
rental. 

The  learned  District  Judge  dismissed  the  plaintiff's  action 
upholding  the  defendant's  contention.  The  plaintiff  appealed. 

^.  M,  de  Saram  for  plaintiff-appellant. — The  case  of 
Wertheim  v.  Ghicoutime  Pulp  Gompany^  relied  on  by  the 
learned  District  Judge  does  not  apply,  as  it  was  an 
action  for  breach  of  contract.  The  present  action  is  one 
of  trespass.  An  overholding  lessee  is  in  the  position  of  a 
malicious  trespasser  from  whom  exemplary  damages  can  be 
recovered.     See   2  Nathan's    Common  Law   of  South  Africa 

916  ;  3  Maasdorp  215. 

• 

Van  Langenberg  (with  Tisseveresinghe)  for  Defendant — 
Respondent. — The  action  is  one  for  the  breach  of  an 
agreement  and  therefore  the  case  of  Wertheim  v.  Chiooutime 
Pulp  Company^  a.-pTpliea.  The  plaintiff  suffered  no  damage 
whatever  by  reason  of  the  defendant's  overholding.  On  the 
contrary,    he  was  considerably  benefited. 


c.  a.  V. 
Wood  Renton  J.— The  plaintiff  appellant  sued  the 
defendant  respondent  in  the  District  Court  of  Colombo  for 
the  sum  of  Rs.  421-23  as  the  alleged  damages  sustained  by 
him  by  reason  of  the  failure  of  the  respondent  to  deliver  up 
possession  of  certain  premises  leased  to  him  by  the  appellant. 
The  lease  which  was  dated  12th  September,  1908,  was  for  a 
period  of  two  years  commencing  from  1st  October,  1908,  at 
a  monthly  rental  of  Rs.  85,  and  it,  therefore,  expired  on  30th 


1.  0911)  A.  C.  301 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 


September,  1910,  The  appellant  alleged  that,  in  the  belief 
the  respondent  would  deliver  up  possession  of  the 
premises  on  that  date,  he  had  on  1st  April,  1910,  granted  a 
second  lease  to  one  Doulatram  Tholchichand  for  a  period  of 
two  years  from  the  date  of  the  expiry  of  the  first  lease.  The 
respondent  did  not  deliver  up  possession  of  the  premises  till 
4th  November,  1910,  and  as  the  appellant  was  unable  to  give 
Doulatram  Tholchichand  possession  on  the  day  when  the 
second  lease  commenced,  the  latter  was  compelled  to  pay  him 
the  sum  of  Rs.  154*23  as  damages,  and  the  lease  was  cancelled. 
On  2lst  November.  1910 ,  however,  the  appellant  leased  the 
premises  in  question  to  Alagappa  Chetty  for  a  period  of 
three  years  from  1st  December,  1910,  in  lieu  of  2  years,  the 
term  of  the  lease  to  Tholchichand,  and  at  a  monthly  rent 
ofRs.  125.  instead  of  the  rent  of  Rs.  100.  received  under 
the  latter  lease.  The  appellant  admitted  in  his  plaint  that 
4iho  respondent  had  paid  him  a  sum  of  Rs.  85.  by  ,  way  of 
rent.  The  amount  originally  claimed  by  him  was  thus 
reduced  to  a  sum  of  Rs.  421*23;  The  practical  result  is  that, 
if  the  appellant  is  entitled  to  recover  damages  only  for  the 
loss  that  he  has  actually  incurred  in  these  transactions, 
viewed  as  an  aggregate,  his  action  musj}  fail,  inasmuch  as  he 
has  gained  by  the  cancellation  of  his  lease  to  Tholchichand, 
which  put  him  in  a  position  to  grant  a  longer  lease  at  a 
higher  rental  to  Alagappa  Chetty. 

The  learned  District  Judge  has  held  that  for  the  purpose 
of  the  present  case  the  appellant's  gain  or  loss  on  the 
transactions  in  question  as  a  whole  must  be  taken  account  of 
of,  and  has  accordingly  dismissed  the  appellant's  action 
with  costs.  Both  sides  agree  that  if  the  appellant  is 
entitled  to  succeed  on  the  law  judgment  shall  be  entered  in 
his  favour  for  the  sum  of  Rs.  321*23.  I  am  unable  to  agree 
with  the  view  taken  by  the  learned  District  Judge  of  this 
case.     We    were   referred    in  the    argument  to   the  case  of 


4.bdul 
Ilahim  t. 
Hasamal. 

Wood 
Renton  J. 


THE    COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 


Abdul 
Babim  V. 
Hasaiual. 

Grcnier  J 


Wertkeim  v.  G/iicoutime  Pulp  Gompany^  in  which  it 
was  held  by  the  Privy-Council  that  the  general  intention 
of  the  law  in  giving  damages  for  breach  of  contract  is  that 
the  plaintiff  shoald  be  placed  in  the  same  position  as  he 
would  have  been  in,  if  the  contract  had  been  performed, 
and  that  consequently,  in  the  case  of  late  delivery  of  goods, 
while  the  ordinary  measure  of  damages  is  the  difference 
between  the  market  price  at  the  respective  dates  of  due 
and  actual  delivery  of  the  goods  purchased,  if  the  purchaser 
has  resold  them  at  a  price  in  excess  of  that  prevailing  at 
the  date  of  delivery,  he  must,  in  estimating  his  damages, 
give  credit  therefor.  The  present  action,  however,  is  not 
one  for  breach  of  contract.  On  the  expiry  of  the  term 
of  his  lease  the  respondent  became  a  trespasser,  and 
it  is  clear  law  that  in  actions  of  trespass,  even  when 
there  is  no  special  damage,  the  Court  or  Jury  are  not 
limited Jto  the  actual  injury  inflicted,  but  may  take  all  the 
circumstances  into  consideration  [Mayne  on  Damages  p.  523, 
Marest  v.  Harvey  f  and  Nathan  s  Common  Law  of  South 
Africa,  Vol.  2  section  916.] 

Both  under  the  Roman  Dutch  and  under  the  English 
law,  as  will  appear  from  the  authorities  just  cited,  a  tres- 
passer is  treated  as  a  person  who  may  suitably  be  punished 
with  vindictive  damages.  (See  also  the  recent  English  case 
of  Cope  V.  Sharpe  (No.  2).3 

On  the  grounds  above  stated,  I  would  set  aside  the 
decree  of  the  District  Court  dismissing  the  appellant's  action 
and  direct  judgment  to  be  entered  for  the  appellant  for  the 
sum  of  Rs.  321-23  with  the  costs  of  the  action  and  of  the 
appeal . 

Grenler  J.— I  am  of  the  same  opinion.  The  defendant 
must  be  regarded  as  a  trespasser,  not  necessarily  malicious,  and 


1     U911)  A.   C.  301. 


0011)  3  K.  B.  537. 


2     {1814)   5   Taunt  ;   44S. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    OASES 

is  clearly  liable  in  damages  to  the  plaintiff,  I  cannot  see  how 
the  fact  of  plaintiff  having  been  materially  benfited  by  the 
lease  to  Alagappa  Chetty  can  enter  into  the  question  of 
damages  in  which  the  defendant  had  made  himself  liable 
in  law  by  reason  of  non  delivery  of  possession  of  the  de- 
mised premises  at  the  expiration  of  the  lease  to  him.  The 
right  of  the  plaintiff  to  recover  damages  in  the  circumstances 
of  this  cise  is,  I  think,  unquestionable  under  the  Roman 
Dutch  law. 

Proctors  for  appellant — de  Livera  and  Jacolyn. 

Proctors  for  respondent — Prins  and  Swan. 


SENANAYAKE  v.  COORAY. 
1762.  D.  C.     Ratnapura 

Present  Lascelles   C-  J.  and  Middleton  J. 

30th    August     1911. 

w 

Pructof — Physical  presence  in  Court — Appearance — Injunction — Proof 
of  service — Sees.  85  and  88  Cieil  Procedure  Code — Observations  on 
character  of  litigants  in  judgments  on  facts  not  elicited  in  evidence  im- 
proper. 

Where  on  the  day  fixed  for  the  trial  of  a  case  the  defendant  was 
abaeut  and  his  Proctor  on  the  record,  who  was  present  in  Court,  stated 
that  he  had  no  instructions,  but  the  District  Judge  proceeded  to  hear 
the  pl«inti£E's    case  and  entered  a  final  judgfment  for  the  plaintiff, 

Held  that  the  casual  presence  of  the  Proctor  in  Court  without  any 
instructions  to  represent  his  client  at  the  trial  is  not  an  appearance  so 
as  to  make  the  trial  an  inter  partes  one  and  enable  the  Court  to  enter 
final  judgment. 

Per  Middleton,  J.  1  Where  an  injunction  is  granted  there 
should  be  a  copy  of  it  together  with  proof  of  service  in  the  record. 

2  A  judge  who  by  being  long  stationed  in 
a  District  has  become  acquainted  with  the  idiosyncraoies  of  litigants 
frequenting  hie  Court  should  not  introduce  into  his  judgment  facta 
within  his  knowledge  applying  to  them  which  hare  not  been  elicited 
in  evidence. 


10  COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES 

Senanaynkc  rpj^jg  ^^^  ^^  action  for  declaration  of  title  to  a  J  share  of 

V.    Oooray 

a  land,  and  for  an  injunction  restraining  the  1st  defendant 

from  mining   for  plumbago  therein,  and  also    for   damages 

on  account  of   plumbago   which   defendants   had   wrongfully 

removed.     The  1st  defendant  filed    answer   alleging   title   in 

himself  to  the  share  claimed  by  the  plaintiff.     At  the  trial, 

on  the  4th  May  1911,  the  1st  defendant  was    absent,  and  his 

Proctor,  who  happened  to   be  in    Court  at   the   time,   stated 

that  he  had  had  no  instructions  from  his   client.     Thereupon 

the  learned  District  Judge  proceeded  to  hear  the   plaintiff's 

case  and  entered  final  judgment  in    favour   of    the   plaintiff. 

On  the  I5th  May,  1911,  the  1st   defendant  filed   an    afSdavit 

moving  the  Court  to  reopen  the  judgment  and   to   set   aside 

the  decree  entered  in  the  case.     The  learned  District   Judge 

dismissed  the  application    with  costs,  and  the  1st   defendant 

appealed  from  that  order. 

Vail  Lamgenberg  (with  him  de  Sampayo,  K.G .)  for  the 
1st  defendant-appellant. — The  presence  of  the  appellant's 
Proctor  oif  the  day  of  trial  was  a  mere  accident.  He  had  no 
instructions  from  his  client,  and  it  cannot  therefore  be  said 
that  he  appeared  on  behalf  of  his  client.  The  mere  state- 
ment by  a  Proctor  thai  he  has  no  instructions  from  his  client 
cannot  be  taken  to  be  an  appearance  within  the  meaning 
of  §  24  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  The  Proctor  mentioned 
that  he  had  no  instructions  merely  out  of  courtesy  to  the  Bench. 
Mohammadu  Lebbe  v.  Kiri  Banda     is  in  point. 

Bawa  (with  Samerewickrame  and  Jayetileke)  for  the  plain- 
tiff-respondent.— It  cannot  be  said  that  the  Proctor's  presence 
was  casual.  He  appeared  in  Court  and  stated  that  he  had  no 
instructions.  It  is  submitted  that  this  is  a  sufficient  ap- 
pearance in  law  to  make  the  judgment  an  inter  partes  one.  See 
Gargiil  v.  Somasundaram,^  and  Perumal  Chetty  v.  Gunetilhke.^ 

1.    (1907)    3.A.C.R.170.  S.  (1005)  9  jX.L.S.  86 

3.  {190S)  4  Bal.  2. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    OASES 


11 


Van  Langenberg  in  reply.— The  cases  cited  do  not  apply; 
There  the  Proctor  appeared  on  behalf  of  the  client  and 
applied  for  a  postponement.  [Lascdles,  C.J.— What  order 
would  you  ask  us  to  make  in  case  we  are  disposed  to 
interfere  1]  The  appellant   should  be  placed  in  statu  quo. 

a,  a.  V. 

Middleton  J. — This  was  an  action  for  declaration  of 
title,  damages  and  an  injunction  in  respect  of  a  half  share  of 
plumbago  land  against  the  1st  defendant,  the  plaintifi  allot- 
ting to  the  2nd  defendant  the  other  half  share  in  the  land. 

Upon  the  acceptance  of  the  plaint  the  court  ordered 
an  injunction  to  issue  returnable  forthwith  and  on  the  8th 
March,  1910,  it  was  ordered  to  be  issued,  but  I  can  find  no 
copy  of  it  or  any  proof  that  it  was  served  on  the  1st  defen- 
dant in  the  record. 

The  1st  defendapt's  answer  denied  the  title  of  the 
plaintiff,  and,  alleging  title  in  himself,  sought  the  dismissal 
of  the  action  and  claimed  damages  in  reconventifjn  for  un- 
lawful restraint  from  mining  for  plumbago. 

The  replication,  it  was  alleged,  did  not  traverse  the  7th 
paragraph  of  the  answer. 

On  the  25th  April,  1911,  an  application  by  the  proctors 
on  both  sides  for  an  adjournment  of  the  trial  day  was  re- 
fused, and  the  case  came  on  for  trial  on  the  4th  May. 

On  that  date  the  1st  defendant  was  absent,  and  his 
proctor  on  the  record  who  was  present  in  court  stated  he 
had  no  instructions,  but  the  District  Judge  proceeded  to 
hear  the  plaintiff's  case,  and  entered  a  final  judgment  for  the 
plaintiff  as  claimed. 

On  the  17th  May,  1911,  an  application  and  affidavit  by 
the  1st  defendant  were  filed,  and  motion  made  to  set  aside 
the. decree  "from  the  step  of  default,"  and  notice  having 
been  served  on  the  plaintiff  the  question  was  discussed,  and 
the  1st  defendant    cross-examined    on    his    affidavit  on  the 


SeiKiuayake 
V    Oooray 


Middleton 


12 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES 


Senanayake 
V.  Oooray 

Middleton 
J. 


5th  July    and    the  application  to  re -open  the  judgment  dis- 
missed with  costs  on  July  6th. 

Against  that  order  the  1st  defendant  now  appeals, 
and  the  main  question  for  our  decision  is  whether  the 
physical  appearance  of  the  lat  defendant's  proctor  in  the 
Court,  coupled  witli  what  he  said  on  the  trial  day,  con- 
stituted, technically,  an  appearance  for  the  1st  defendant 
which  would  give  the  proceedings  the  character  of  an 
inter  partes  trial  and  so  enable  the  District  Judge  to 
enter  a  final  decree.  The  cases  of  Gargial  et  al :  v.  Soma- 
sunderam  Ghetty,^a,nd  Aha-naio  Lebbe  v.  Kiri  Banda^ , 
were  cited  by  counsel  and  it  seems  to  me  that  those 
cases  are  quite  reconcileable  and  afford  good  bases  for 
the  decision  of  the  question  now  before  us.  In  the  former 
case  the  circumstances  as  detailed  by  Chief  Justice  Layard 
shewed  that  a  proctor,  whose  position  was  questioned, 
did,  in  fact  and  law,  appear,  while  in  the  latter  it  was 
clear  that  he  did  not.  It  is  somewhat  difficult  to  say  in 
such  a  ctfse  what  is  the  principle  upon  which  a  Court 
should  act  in  deciding  whether  there  is  an  appearance  or 
not,  but  I  think  each  case  must  be  determined  upon  its 
own  circumstances.  In  the  present  case  it  seems  to  me 
that  the  1st  defendant's  proctor  was  casually  present  in 
Court  but,  probably  through  his  client's  negligence,  with- 
out any  instructions  to  represent  his  client  at  the  trial, 
and  I  would  hold  that  this  is  not  an  appearance  so  as  to 
make  the  trial  an  inter  partes  one  and  enable  the  Court  to- 
enter  final  judgment. 

I  think  also  that  the  application  to  the  District  Couit 
decided  on  the  Gth  July  was  rather  an  application  to  set 
aside  the  judgment  entered,  on  the  ground  that  it  was 
wrongly  entered  in  a  final  character  than  an  application  to 
set  aside  a  decree  nisi  which    the    learned  counsel  for  the 


1     Q905)  9  N.L. 


(1907)  2  yi.r.  V.  no. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 


13 


respondent  argued  was  the  case. 

It  is  true  I  think  that  the  affidavit  made  by  the  1st 
defendant  or  his  cross-examination  on  it  does  not  afford  by 
any  means  a  sufficient  excuse  for  his  absence  or  his  failure  to 
instruct  his  counsel  to  appear  for  him  and  summon  tha 
witnesses  mentioned  in  his  list. 

I  think  also  it  is  clear  from  the  pleadings  and  on  the 
•evidence  adduced  for  the  plaintiff  that  it  was  an  extremely 
hazardous  thing  for  the  District  Judge  to  enter  a  final 
judgment  for  the  plaintiff  in  a  matter  of  title  to  im- 
movable property  as  he  did. 

In  my  opinion  therefore  the  appeal  should  be  allowed 
and  the  order  and  judgment  of  the  District  Court  set  aside 
with  the  direction  to  try  the  case  de  novo. 

The  1st  defendant  ought  to  have  the  costs  of  his 
appeal,  but  I  would  order  him  to  pay  his  own  costs  of  the 
application  and  all  the  plaintiff's  costs  incurred  by  the 
abortive  trial  on  the  4th  May  as  between  procto;  and  client, 
as  he  has  adduced  no  sufficient  reason  why  he  did  not 
instruct  his  proctor  to  appear  and  defend  his  case  oa  the 
day  he  knew  was  fixed  for  the  trial  of  the  case. 

As  regards  the  injunction,  although  it  was  prayed  for  in 
the  plaint  and  apparently  granted  as  a  matter  of  course,  it 
seems  to  me  that,  if  it  was  granted  there  should  have  been  a 
copy  of  it  with  proof  of  service  on  the  Ist  defendant  to  be 
found  in  the  record,  and  in  the  absence  of  this  it  is 
difficult  to  say  if  it  was  in  fact  issued.  The  argument  ad 
miiericordiam  on  the  ground  of  the  magnitude  of  the 
damages  accumulated  against  him  on  the  judgment  may 
therefore  have  some  foundation. 

I  take  occasion  also- to  suggest,  with  reference  to  the 
learned  Judge's  observations  on  the  character  of  the  1st 
defendant,  that  although  it  is  inevitable  that  a  District 
Judge  who  has  been  long  stationed  in  one  District   must  be- 


Senanayake 
V,  Oooray 

MiddletWK 
J. 


14 

Senanflyafce 
V,   Oooray 

Lascelles 
c.  J. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL     CASES 

come  acquainted  with  tlie  idiosyncrasies  of  the  litigants 
frequenting  his  Court,  it  is  advisable  not  to  introduce  into 
a  judgment  facts  within  his  knowledge  applying  to  them 
which  have  not  been  specifically  elicited  in  evidence  in  the 
particular  case  before  him.     The  appeal  is  allowed. 

LaSCelleS    C.J. — I  entirely  agree  in  the  judgment   and 
order  proposed  by  my  brother  Middleton. 

Proctor  for  appellant — J .  Vandenberg . 

Proctor  for  respondent—  A.  Wijetileke. 


In  the  Matter  or  The  Last  Will  and  Testament  of 

Indtjruwe  Sumanqala  Piyadasi  Nayake 

Tekxtnnanse,   deceased. 

MED  ANKARA  VNAlii&E— Petitioner-Respondent 

V. 

*  ANDRIS — Petitioner-Appellant 
No.  592  D.  0.  Ratnapura. 

Present:  Wood  Renton  and  Grenier  J.  J. 

nth  December,  1911- 

Testamentary  proeeedings — Party  imjjeacldng  will— Status — Besidenee 
outside.  Jurixdiciion  of  Court — Plaintiff — Defendant — Seowity  for  easts 
— Testamentary  capacity —  Undue  influence— Onus  of  proof— Sees.  41€,  3SG, 
533  C'iril  Procedure  Code. 

A  party  resident  out  of  tlie  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  who  files  a 
petition  of  opposition  to  the  errant  of  probate  of  a  will  and  himself 
applies  for  probate  of  another  will,  is  not  in  the  position  of  a  plaintiflE 
within  the  meaning  of  §  116  and  is  not  liable  to  give   security  for   costs. 

Per  Grenier,  J. — The  wording  of  §  416  Civil  Procedure  Code 
contemplates  a  regular  action  in  whieh  the  parties  are  described  speci- 
ally as  plaintiff  and  defendant Testamentary   actions  and 

proceedings  stand  on  quite  a  different  footing  from  regular  actions  as 
the  term  has  been  understood  since  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  came  into 
operation,  and  the  provisions  of  §§  533  and  386  cannot  be  construed 
in  such  a  way  as  to  place  the  appellant  in  the  position  of  a  plaintiff 
within  the  meaning  of  §  '116.    It    is   only   in  case    the   appellant    fills 


Anclris 


COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES  15 

that  position  completely  that  lie  can  be  required  to    yive    security    for        Medankara 
costs.  "ETnanse  v, 

A  person  wlio  has  not  been  mada  a  respondent  to  an  application  for 
probate  and  on  whom  no  order  nisi  had  been  directed  to  be  served 
but  who  claims  a  grant  of  probate  for  himself  of  another  will  admitted- 
ly executed  by  the  testator  cornea  within  the  words  ''any  person  then 
appearing  to  be  interested  in  the  administration  of  his  deceased's 
property"  in  §  533  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  is  tntitled  to  oppose 
the  application  for  probate. 

-Pec  Wood  Rcntim  J. — No  proposition  of  law  is  more  clearly  settled 
than  this,  that  the  person  who  propounds  a  will  must  show  that  it  is  a 
valid  testamentary  act,  and  that  although  the  incidence  of  proof  may 
change  in  the  course  of  a  trial,  it  is  on  his  shoulders  that  the  burden 
of  proving  testamentary  capacity  ultimately  rests. 

The  respondent  applied  for  probate  of  the  will  of  one 
Induruwe  Sumangala  Piyadasi  Nayaka  Terunnanse,  and  an 
order  nisi  was  entered  in  terms  of  his  prayer.  The  appellant 
filed  a  petition  impeaching  the  will  already  produced  and 
applying  to  have  another  will,  in  which  he  had  been  ap- 
pointed heir,  declared  the  last  will  of  the  deceased. , 

The  appellant  being  resident  beyond  the  jurisdiction  of 
the  District  Court  of  Ratnapura,  the  respondent  moved  for 
an  order  on  the  appellant  to  deposit  security  for  the  costs  of 
the  contention  under  §  416  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code, 
The  learned  District  Judge  allowed  the  iapplication  and  the 
present  appeal  was  taken  from  that  order. 

Samerewickrame  for  appellant, — Testamentary  pro- 
ceedings are  proceedings  in  rem  and,  as  such,  should  be 
decided  on  the  merits  and  not  on  objections  of  this  nature: 
see  §  533,  Civil  Procedure  Code.  Probate  must  be  granted 
to  the  person  really  entitled,  and,  when  a  dispute  arises, 
it  must  not  be  decided  as  a  proceeding  between  two  parties: 
see  §  519  and  §534  proviso.  Civil  Procedure  Code.  The 
term  "action"  as  defined  in  §  6  of  our  Code  applies 
to  regular  actions  and  not  to  testamentary  proceedings. 
Moreover,  the  appellant  was  really  in  the  position  of  a  defen- 
dant.   As  soon  as  the  appellant  filed  his  petition  of  objections 


16 


OURT     OP     AP      AL     CASES 


Medankanv 

TJnause  vi 

Audris 

Wood 
Renton  J. 


the   onus    of  proving  the  will  in    solemn  form   was   on   the 
executor.     {Pieris  v.  Piiris.^) 

Bawa  for  respqndent. — The  appellant  cannot  rely  on  §  533 
inasmuch  as  he  is  not  a  beneficiary  under  the  will.  {Wood 
Renton,  J.  :  He  is  a  person  "  appearing  to  be  interested  in 
the  administration  of  the  deceased's  property."]  No,  he  is  a 
petitioner  asking  for  probate.  He  is  in  the  position  of  a 
plaintiff,  inasmuch  as  he  brings  a  will  into  Court  and  asks 
the  Court  to  accept  it  as  the  real  will. 

c.  a.v. 
Wood  Renton,  J. — ^The   material   facts   of    this  case 
are  shortly  as  follow  : — 

Induruwe  Sumangala  Piyadassi  Nayaka  Terunnanse 
died  on  7th  October,  1910.  The  respondent  propounded  in 
the  District  Court  of  Ratnapura  what  purported  to  be  his 
last  will  and  testament.  It  was  dated  12th  July,  1902. 
The  respondent  is  the  sole  surviving  executor  appointed 
under  it.  .  In  support  of  his  application  for  probate  he  put 
before  the  District  Court  a  sufficient  prima  facie  case  of  the 
due  execution  of  the  will,  and  an  order  nisi  declaring  hia 
status  and  granting  probate  was  made.  The  appellant  filed 
a  petition  of  objections  to  the  order  nisi  being  made 
absolute  on  the  ground  of  the  existence  of  a  prior  will  in 
his  favour  dated  17th  January,  1899.  This  latter  will  is 
revoked  by  a  general  clause  of  revocation  in  the  will  of 
12th  July,  1902.  The  respondent  does  not  deny  its 
execution,  but  relies  on  its  revocation.  The  appellant,  on 
his  side,  does  not  dispute  the  fact  of  the  execution  of  the 
will  of  12th  July,  1902,  but  contends  that  the  testator  was 
not  of  sound  mind  at  the  date  of  its  execution,  and  was 
induced  to  execute  it  by  the  undue  influence  of  the  res- 
pondent. It  would  appear  that  both  the  appellant  and  the 
respondent    are    pupils   of    the    testator.     The   point  to  be 


Z     (;.Wfi)     9  jT.i.i?.  14. 


'COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 


17 


decided  in  the  present  appeal  is  whether  or  not  the  District 
Judge  was  entitled  to  make,  as  he  has  made,  an  order  re- 
quiring the  appellant  to  give  security  in  Rs.  2,500  with  one 
surety  for  the  codts  of  the  respondent  in  the  testamentay 
proceedings.  The  appellant  is  not  resident  within  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  District  Court  of  Ratnapura.  Before  the 
order  under  appeal  was  made  two  issues  had  been  framed  : — 

1.  Had  the  testator,  at  the  time  of  the  execution  of 
the  will,  a  sound  and  disposing  mind  ? 

2.  Was  the  execution  of  the  will  due  to  coercion 
and  undue  influence  exercised  on  the  testator  by  the  res- 
pondent ? 

The  burden  of  proof,  in  regard  to  the  first  of  these 
issues,  is  clearly  on  the  respondent.  The  plea  of  undue 
influence,  however,  must  be  established  by  the  appellant 
(I'ieris  v.  Fieri ».)  ^  The  learned  District  Judge  has  held 
incorrectly  that  the  onus  probandi  as  to  testamentary 
capacity  rests  on  the  party  who  impeaches  it.  No  pro- 
position of  law  is  more  clearly  settled  than  this,  that  the 
executor  who  propounds  a  will  must  show  that  it  is  a 
valid  testamentary  act,  and  that,  although  the  incidence  of 
proof  may  change  in  the  course  of  a  trial,  it  ia  on  his 
shoulders  tliat  the  burden  of  proving  testamentary 
capacity  ultimately  rests.  The  District  Judge,  however, 
rightly  held  that  it  was  for  the  appellant  to  prove  his  plea 
of  undue  influence.  His  reasons  for  ordering  the  appel- 
lant to  give  security  were,  that  he  is  practically  in  the 
position  of  a  plaintiff  in  the  testamentary  proceedings  J 
that  §  633  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  directs  tha' 
the  issues  arising  in  such  proceedings  between  parties  in 
the  position  of  the  appellant  and  the  respondent  respec- 
tively shall  be  tried  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
§336,  that  is  to  sjiy,  as  nearly  as  possible  in  con" 
formity  with  the  rules  prescribed  for  the  taking  of  evi- 
1   q.d06^  y  y.LM.  u, 


Medankara 

XJuaDSe  V. 

Andi-u 


Wood 
Renton  J. 


18 


COURT    OF     APPEAL     CASES 


Medaukarn 

Unanse  v. 

Audris 


Wood 
ReMon  J. 


dence  at  the  trial  of  a  regular  action,  and  that,  as  the 
appellant,  is  not  resident  within  the  jurisdiction  of  th^ 
District  Court  of  Ratnapura,  he  should  be  called  upon 
under  §  416  to  give  security  for  costs.  No  authority 
directly  bearing  on  the  point  of  law  raised  in  this  appeal 
was  cited  to  us  in  argument,  and  I  am  not  aware  of  any. 
But  on  general  principles,  and  in  view  of  the  language  of 
the  sections  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  above  referred  to, 
I  am  of  opinion  that  the  order  under  appeal  was  wrong. 
The  burden  of  proof  of  testamentary  capacity  is  not 
upon  the  appellant,  and  even  if  it  had  been,  that 
fact  would  not  have  put  him  in  the  position  of  a 
plaintiff,  for  the  purpose  of  the  te3tam.entary  pro- 
proceedings.  The  real  plaintiff  in  these  proceedings  is  the 
respondent.  The  only  application  with  which  the  Court  has 
directly  to  deal,  in  the  first  instance,  is  his  application  that 
probate  should  be  granted  of  the  will  of  12th  July,  1902. 
The  appetlant's  direct  and  primary  object  in  coming  before 
the  Court  is  to  prevent  that  probate  from  being  granted, 
although,  no  doubt,  he  prays  in  his  petition  that  the  earlier 
will  should  be  allowed  to  remain  good,  and  §  534  of 
the  Civil  Procedure  Code  empowers  the  Court,  if  it  holds 
that  the  objections  to  the  probate  of  the  will  of  12th  July, 
1902,  have  been  made  out,  to  grant  probate  of  the  will  of 
1899.  It  was  argued  by  Mr.  Bawa  that  the  appellant  had 
no  status  under  §  533  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code, 
inasmuch  as  he  had  not  been  made  respondent  to  the  appli- 
cation for  probate  of  the  will  of  1902 ;  the  order  nisi  had  not 
been  directed  to  be  served  upon  him,  and  he  could  not  bring 
himself  within  the  words  "  any  person  then  appearing  to  be 
interested  in  the  administration  of  the  deceased's  property." 
No  objection  to  the  status  of  the  appellant  was  taken  in  the 
District  Court  and  apart  from  that,  it  seems  to  me  that  he 
does  come  within  the  clause  just  quoted.  He  declares  in 
his  petition  of  objections  that  he  is  interested  in   the  proper- 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES 


19 


ty  of  the  testator  under  the  will   of  1899.     The  existence  of 
that  will  is  not  disputed  by  the  respondent. 

On  the  grounds  above  indicated  I  would  set  aside  the 
order  of  the  District  Judge  requiring  the  appellant  to  give 
security,  and  send  the  case  back  to  the  District  Court  for 
trial  on  the  issues.  The  appellant  is  entitled,  in  any  event, 
to  the  costs  of  the  appeal,  and  to  the  special  costs,  if  any, 
of  the  argument  in  the  District  Court  on  the  points  which 
the  appeal  raises.  All  other  costs  should  be  costs  in  the 
cause. 

Grenler  J. 

The  facts  are  fully  stated  in  the  judgment  of  my  brother 
which  I  have  had  the  advantage  of  reading.     I  may  add  that 
in  the  whole  course  of  my  experience,  both  at  the  Bar  and  on 
the   Bench     of    the    District    Court    of    Colombo,     I    have 
never  known  of  any  case  similar    to  the  one    now  before  me, 
in  which  the  Court  required  security  for  costs    from  a  person 
in  the  position  of  the  present  appellant,  on  the    ground  that 
he  was  not  resident  within  the     jurisdiction   of  the  Court. 
The  will  of  1899  propounded     by  the  appellant  is    earlier  in 
date  than  the  one  produced  by  the  respondent,  and  I    under- 
stand the  appellant  impeaches  this   later    will  on  the  ground 
that  the  testator  wa«  not   at   the  time   of  its  execution    of    a 
sound  and  disposing  mind,    and  that    the  execution    of  the 
will  was  due  to  coercion  and  undue  influence  on  the  testator 
by  the  respondent.     1  fail  to  see  how  the  order  requiring  the 
appellant  to  giva  security  for  costs  can  be  justified.     Such  an 
order  would  work  manifest  injustice  and  wrong  in    numerous 
cases  in  which  wills  are  impeached  either   as     forgeries  or  on 
other  sufficient  grounds.     It  will  place   an    embargo    on  the 
full  and  free   investigation  into    testamentary  dispositions  of 
property,  both    movable  and   immovable,    and   will  offer  a 
premium  to  persons  so   inclined,  to    put    forward    false  and 
fictitious  wills.     Apart,  however,  from   these    considerations. 


ACedaukara 

■Dnanse  v. 

Andris 


Grenier  J 


20 


Medanktra 

Unaose  v 

AuGris 


Grenier  J 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    OASES 

there  is  no  warrant  for  tbe  procedure  adopted  by  the  District 
Judge  in  any  sections  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  that  have 
been  cited  to  us.  I  doubt  very  much  if  the  appellant  in  this 
case  can  be  assigned  the  position  of  a  plaintiff  and  the  res- 
pondent that  of  a  defendant  within  the  meaning  of  §  416. 
The  very  wording  of  this  section  contemplates  a  regular 
action  in  which  the  parties  are  described  specifically  as  plain- 
tiff and  defendant.     The  section  is  as  follows  : — 

"  If  at  the  institution  or  at  any  subsequeat  stage,  of 
the  action,  it  appears  to  the  Court  that  a  sole  plaintiff,  is 
or  (when  there  are  more  plaintiffs  than  one)  that  all  the 
plaintiffs  are  residing  out  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court, 
the  Oourt  may  in  its  discretion,  and  either  of  its  motioa  or 
on  the  application  of  the  defend  out  order  the  plaintiff  or 
plaintiffs to   give    security   for  the   payment    of    all 

costs " 

Testamentary  actions  and  proceedings  stand  on  quite  a 
different  footing  from  regular  actions,  as  the  term  has  been 
understood  by  us  since  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  came  into 
operation ;  and  I  do  not  see  how  the  provisions  of  §§ 
533  and  386  can  be  construed  in  such  a  way  as  to  place  the 
appellant  in  the  position  of  a  plaititiff  within  the  meaning 
of  §  416.  It  is  only  in  case  the  appellant  fills  that 
position  completely  that  he  can  be  required  to  cive 
security  for  costs.  I  am  distinctly  of  opinion  thit  the 
appellant  is  a  very  long  way  off  from  it,  and  that  neither 
§  533  nor  §  383  has  any  application  here.  The  suc^- 
gestion  was  a  very  ingenious  one,  and  that  is  the  only 
merit  it  has. 

As  regards  the  appellant's  status,  I  think  there  can  be 
no  question  that  he  was  a  person  interested  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  deceased's  property,  and  he  has  rightly  been 
admitted  into  these  proceedings. 


COURT     OP    APPEAL     CASES  21 

The  i appeal  must   be   allowed   with  costs,  as  directed  in      " ^BllSpakse''' 
the  judgment  of  my  brother. 

Proctor    for  Appellant — G.  F.  Dharmaratne  . 
Proctor  for  Respondeat — Daniel  Jayatillekt, 


RAJAPAKSE  V  RAJAPAKSE. 
No.  10,353  D.  0.  Galle, 
Present :  Lascelles  C.  J.  and  Middleton  J- 

29th    November   1911. 

Proctur— Iiien  for  costs — Sees  75  and  212  Ciril  Procedure  Code— 
Mnflish  Law  introdumd  impliedly. 

Where  the  defendant  paid  money  into  court  for  the  plaintiff's  use, 
but  the  plaintiff  waa  decreed  to  paj  defendant's  costs,  the  plaintiff's 
J?rootor  is  entitled  to  a  lien  over  the  money  paid  into  Court  in  respect 
of  costs  payable  to  him  by  his  own  client. 

No  distinction  can  be  drawn  between  the  costs  nhich  the  opposing^ 
party  is  orderd  to  pay  and  costs  which  the  Proctor  is  entitled  to  have 
taxed  and  to  recover  from  his  own  client. 

Perera  v  Persia  I  followed . 

The  principle  of  the  English  Common  Law  with  regard  to  a 
solicitor's  Hen  for  costs  has  beea  impliedly  introduced  into  Oeylon. 

SemhU,  The  Roman-Dutch  Law  would  not  allow  such  a  lien. 

Per  Lascellet  C.  J.  —The  lien  which  is  recognised  not  crested,  by 
§§  76  and  212  can  hardly  be  any  other  than  the  lien  allowed  by 
English  Law  being  a  right  depending  upon  the  principle  that  a  Proctor 
IS  entitled  to  a  charge  upon  property  recovered  or  preserved  where 
meritorious  services  of  the  Proctor  result  in  such  recovery  or 
preservation. 

In  this  case  the  defendant -respondent  deposited  in 
Court  for  the  plaintiffs'— use  the  sum  of  Rs.  200,  and  judgment 
was  entered  in  favour  ol  the  plaintiffs  for  that  sum  on  the 
I6th  March,  1911,  but  they  were  ordered  to  pay  the  defen- 
dant's costs.  On  the  4th  May  1911,  the  defendant  got  his 
bill  of  costs  taxed,  and  on  the  9fch  May,  the  9th  appellant, 
(0  J7.   If. L.R.I. 


22  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 

Eaiapakser,     ^jjo  is    the  prootor  for  the  plaintiflEs,  moved   the   Court  that 

Bajapakse  ^  ^ 

his  lien  as  proctor,  onthe  amount  deposited  in  Court  be 
made  matter  of  record,  and  soon  after  tendered  his  bill  for 
taxation  on  notice  to  his  clients.  There  was  some  delay  in 
serving  notice,  and  in  the  meantime  the  defendant  issued 
writ  on  the  17th  July,  1911,  and  seized  the  amount  deposited 
in  Court  on  the  1st  August,  1911.  The  question  of  the 
proctor's  lien  came  on  for  discussion  before  -the  learned 
District  Judge,  who  by  his  order  dated  13thj  September, 
1911,  disallowed  the  proctor's  lien  with  costs.  The  appeal 
is  against  this  order. 

Bawa  for  the  plaintiffs-appellants. — The  lien  contended 
for  by  the  3th  appellant  is  recognised  by  §§  75  (e)  and  212  of 
our  Code ;  also  in  Perera  v  Perera,^  The  legislature  in  framing 
these  sections  had  in  view  the  solicitor's  lien  under  the 
English  Law  and  the  principles  of  the  English 
Law  apply.  A  proctor  who  by  his  efforts  obtains 
judgment  for^is  client  has  a  charge  in  the  nature  of  salvage 
upon  any  property  recovered:  See  Annual  Practice  (iSll)  ii. 
552;  Gfreerv.  Young^  ;  Inre  Suffield^;  Gharlion  v.  Charlton*; 
Hunt  V.  Austin^  and  Emden  v.  Carte^. 

A.St.  V ,  Jayewardene  ioi  the  defendant-respondent. — 
The  lien  claimed  does  not  exist  under  our  law,  nor  does  the 
Roman-Dutch  Law  recognize  it:  1  Thomson  556;  2  Pereira's 
Institutes  416;  Groenewtgen  0.  IV.  333;  3  Surge  602;  2  Van 
Leeuwen,  330,  444 ;  2  Maasdorp  254.  Sections  75  (e)  and 
212  only  recognise  a  lien  of  a  limited  character.  They  con- 
template the  existence  of  a  decree  for  costs  in  favour  of  the 
party  whose  proctor  is  claiming  the  lien.  In  both  sections 
the  words,  "in  respect  of  the  costs  payable  to  him  under  the 
decree"  are  used  and  the  lien  is  therefore  recognised  only  as 
regards  costs    payable  under  a  decree.     In    the   present  case 

1.  (1901)  11  N.  L.  R.  1.  4.     C1883)  5S  L.  J.  Ch  .971. 

2.  (1883)  Si  Ch.  D.  587.  5.     QS88)  47  L.  T.  300. 

3.  (1888)  SO  g.  B.  D.  G93.  O!    QSSl)  4S  L.  T.  3S8. 


COURT    OP    APPEAL    CASES 


23 


there  is  no  decree  for  costs  in  favour  of  the  clients  to  give  the 
proctor  his  lien.  In  Perera  v.  Perera^  there  was  such  a 
decree.  In  this  case  therefore  §§  76  e)  and  212  do  no* 
apply.  The  proctor's  costs  cannot  be  recover  d  except  by- 
separate  action  as  provided  for  by  §§  214  and  215  of  the 
Code,  The  lien  cannot  be  sustained  in  this  case,  because 
at  the  time  it  was  claimed  the  9th  appellant's  bill  of  costs 
had  not  been  taxed.  A  lien  can  only  be  claimed  in  respect 
of  an  ascertained  amount. 

Bawa  in  reply. — Sections  75  (e)  and  212  have  been 
badly  worded.  The  words  "under  the  decree"  ought  to  be 
considered  as  surplusage,  otherwise  the  sections  are  mean- 
ingless, as  pointed  out  by  Hutchinson  C.  J.  in  Pertrd  v. 
Perera.''  The  mere  absence  of  a  decree  for  costs  in  his  client's 
avour  should  not  deprive  ^the  proctor  of  his  lien  over  pro- 
perty recovered  through  his  exertions.  The  limitation 
contended  for  by  the  respondent  would  nullify  the  effect  of 
the  lien  conferred  by  §§  75  (e)  and  212.  The  fact  thsift  the 
bill  was  not  taxed  at  the  date  of  the  claim  is  no  bar  :  De  Bay 

V   Griffin^ . 

e.  a.  V. 

Lascelles  C.  J. — This  appeal  raises  the  question, 
whether  the  plaintiff's  proctor  is  entitled  to  a  lien  for  the 
costs,  on  a  sum  paid  into  Court  by  the  defendant  in  discharge 
Of  the  claim  in  a  case  where  the  plaintiffs  were  ordered  to 
pay  the  defendant's  costs. 

On  the  21st  December,  1910,  the  defendant  deposited 
Es.  200  in  Court  for  the  use  of  the  plaintiffs.  Judgment 
for  that  amount  was  entered  in  favour  of  the  plaintiffs  on  the 
IStli  March,  1911,  the  plaintiffs  being  ordered  to  pay  the 
defendant's  costs.  The  defendant  on  May  4th  got  the  bill 
of  costs  taxed,  and  on  the  9th  May,  the  9th  appellant,  who 
is  the  plaintiffs'  proctor,  moved  the  Court  that  his  lien  on  the 
sum  of  Rs.  200  be  made  matter  of  record. 

l.IIN.  L.  R.  I.  2  rJ875;    2.  L.  B.  Ch.  391. 


Rajapakse  v. 


LksceUcs 
C.  J. 


24 


RajapakBev, 
Rajapakae 


Lascelles 
C    i. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 

Some  delay  took  place  in  taxing  the  9th  appellant's  bill 
of  costs  and  before  taxation  the  defendant  on  17th  July 
seized  the  sum  of  Rs.  200  under  his  writ.  When  the  matter 
came  on  for  discussion  the  learned  District  Judge  decided 
adversely  to  the  lien  claimed  by  the  9th  appellant,  and  the 
present  appeal  is  against  this  decision. 

It  appears  to  be  at  least  doubtful  whether  the  Roman. 
Dutch  Law  would  allow  the  lien  for  which  the  appellant 
contends. 

According  to  Maasdorp, '  an  attorney  or  conveyancer 
has  a  lien  on  documents  in  his  possession  for  the  costs  of 
professional  services  rendered  by  him  or  expenses  incurred 
by  him  upon  or  with  respect  to  such  documents,  but  it  does 
not  appear  to  be  settled  that  a  legal  practitioner  has  such  a 
lien  for  his  costs  upon  the  amount  of  a  judgment  obtained  by 
him  in  favour  of  his  client. 

The  appellant's  case  thus  depends  upon  the  view  thaj 
the  Civil  Procedure  Code  has,  by  implication  ,  introduced  the 
principle  of  the  English  Common  Law  with  regard  to  a  soli- 
citor's lien  for  costs  rather  than  upon  any  principle  of  the 
Roman-Dutch  Law. 

The  only  sections  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  which 
bear  on  the  question  are  sections  75  (e)  and  212.  These 
sections  run  as  follows:  Section  75  (e):  "When  the  defendant 
sets  up  a  claim  in  reconvention,  the  answer  must  contain  a 
plain  and  concise  statement  of  the  facts  constituting  the 
ground  of  such  claim  which  the  defendant  makes  in  recon- 
vention. A  claim  in  reconvention  duly  set  up  in 
the  answer  shall  have  the  same  effect  as  a  plaint 
in  a  cross  action  so  as  to  enable  the  Court  to  pro- 
nounce a  final  judgment  in  the  same  action  both  on  the 
original  and  on  the  cross  claim ;  but  it  thall  not  affect  the  lien 
upon  the  amount  decreed  of  any  proctor  in  respect  of  the  costs 

J.     X  Masdorp,  S54. 


THE     COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES 


25 


payable  to  him  under  the  decree.  Section  212:  '•  The  Court 
may  direct  that  the  costs  payable  to  one  party  by  another 
shall  be  set  off  against  a  sum  which  is  admitted  or  is  found 
in  the  action  to  be  due  from  the  former  to  the  itter 
But  such  direction  shall  not  affect  the  lien  upon  the  amount 
decreed  of  any  proctor  in  respect  of  the  costs  payable  to  him 
under  the  decree." 

The  construction  of  these  sections  is  not  free  from  diffi  - 
culty,  as  decrees,  under  the  practice  which  prevails  in 
Ceylon,  do  not  specifically  direct  the  payment  of  costs  to 
the  proctor.  The  difficulty  appears  to  arise  from  the 
phraseology  of  §  111  of  the  Indian  Civil  Procedure  Code 
of  1882  having  been  adopted  without  the  modification  re- 
quired by  the  procedure  in  force  in  Ceylon, 

la  Perera  V.  Perera*^  Hutchinson  C.J.,  commenting  on 
these  sections,  observed:  "What  are  the  costs  payable  to  him 
under  the  decree  1  The  decree  never  orders  any  costs  to 
be  paid  to  the  proctor.  I  do  not  see  what  the*  phrase  can 
mean,  unless  it  means  such  of  the  costs,  which  the  other 
party  is  ordered  to  pay  to  the  proctor's  client,  as  the  proctor 
is  entitled  to  recover  from  his  client.  These  enactments 
appear  to  me  to  assume  that  for  those  costs  the  proctor  has 
a  "  lien"  or  charge  on  the  amount  decreed,  and  to  enact  that 
that  charge  shall  not  be  affected  by  a  claim  in  reconvention 
or  a  set  off.  I  do  not  see  how  any  effect  can  be  given  to 
those  enactments  without  holding  that  a  proctor  has  such 
a  charge.  I  therefore  hold  that  a  proctor  has  such  a 
charge.     .     .     ." 

For  the  appellant  it  is  contended  ths^t  it  is  a  necessary 
inference  from  the  language  of  §§  75  and  212  that  the 
principles  of  the  English  common  law  as  embodied  in  the 
Solicitors'  Act  ^  have  been  recognised  and  incorporated  into 
our  system,  and  that  the  proctor  has  a  charge  in  the  nature 
1     ildOT)  11  .V.Z.R.2,  2-  23  .^-  2iVict  121 


Rajapabse  v. 
Rajapakse 


LasceUem 
C.  J. 


26  COUKT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 

of  salvage  upon  property  recovered  or  preserved  by  him 
and  we  were  referred  to  Cheer  v.  Young^ .  In  re  Suffitld  ^ 
Charlton  v.  Gharlton^  and  other  oases  cited  in  the  Annual 
Practice. 

It  is  true  that  §§  75  and  212  assume  the  existence 
of  the  lien  contended  for  only  as  regards  costs  directed  to 
be  paid  by  the  decree.  But  assuming,  as  we  are  bound  by 
the  decision  in  Perera  v.  Perera^  to  assume,  that  a  proctor 
possesses  a  lien  on  the  fruits  of  litigation  for  costs  decreed 
to  be  paid  to  his  client,  can  a  distinction  be  drawn  between 
costs  which  the  opposing  party  is  ordered  to  pay  to  the 
proctor's  client,  and  costs  which  the  proctor  is  entitled  to 
have  taxed  and  to  recover  from  his  own  client  ?  It  seems 
to  me  that  such  a  distinction  would  be  artificial  and  unfair. 
The  lien  which  is  recognised,  not  created,  by  §§  75  and 
212  can  hardly  be  any  other  than  the  lien  which  is  allowed 
by  English  law,  a  right,  depending  upon  the  principle  that 
a  proctor  is  entitled  to  a  charge  upon  property  recovered 
or  preserved  when  meritorious  services  of  the  proctor  result 
in  such  recovery  or  preservation. 

It  is  difficult  to  think  of  any  good  reason  why  a  plain- 
tiff's proctor  should  be  entitled  to  a  charge  for  his  costs 
when  the  action  succeeds  and  the  Oourt  orders  the  defen- 
dant to  pay  the  plaintiff's  costs,  but  that  he  should  not 
have  such  a  charge  if  the  defendant  brings  into  court  the 
amount  claimed  and  so  saves  an  order  as  to  costs.  In  either 
case  the  principle  of  salvage  is  involved,  for  it  is  by  reason 
of  the  proctor's  service  that  the  money  has  been  made  avail- 
able. I  would  set  aside  the  order  of  the  District  Judge  and 
declare  that  the  appellant  has  a  charge ,  to  the  extent  of 
his  taxed  costs,  on  the  money  brought  into  Court  by  the 
defendant.     The    appellant   is   entitled   to   the  costs  of  this 

/.     <il883-)  24  Ch.  D.  545.  3.     {1883)  5S  J.  L.  Ch  .971, 

S.    (18SS)  SO  g.  B.  D.  693.  4.    (,1907)  11  N.  L.   R.  1. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    OASES  27 

appeal    and  to   costs    of    the    application  In    the  District      "^^^^5^^  ■ 
Court. 

Middleton  J. — This  was  an  appeal  against  an  order  of  ^"'•y'**"* 
the  District  Judge  holding  that  the  plaintiff's  proctor  had 
no  lien  for  costs  as  against  his  clients  upon  a  sum  of  R200 
paid  into  Court  by  the  defendant  in  satisfaction  of  the 
plaintiffs'  claim  in  the  action,  on  the  ground  that  the  Proc- 
tor had  no  lien  against  a  creditor  of  his  clients  and  that  the 
Proctor's  bill  had  not  been  taxed. 

In  the  action  itself  the  plaintiffs  had  been  given  judg- 
ment for  the  R200  paid  into  Court,  but  had  been  ordered  to 
pay  the  defendant's  cost,  and  the  defendant's  Proctor  had 
taxed  his  bill  and  moved  for  a  charging  order  on  the  money 
in  Court  and  having  subsequently  obtained  a  writ  seized 
the  money  in  Court  when  the  plaintiffs  moved  for  and  ob- 
tained discussion  of  the  question  of  their  Proctor's  lien  on 
the  money  in  question,  upon  which  the  order  appealed  from  . 
was  made,  subsequently  to  this  order  the  plaintiffs'  proctor 
taxed  his  costs. 

The  Roman-Dutch  law  would  not  appear  to  give  a 
proctor  a  lien  on  the  instruments  of  the  cause — presumably 
documents — except  for  expenses  incurred  on  such  documents, 
Voet.  3, 1,6;  Thomson  Vol.  l,p  536  ;  Pereira,  Vol.  2,  p  486. 

The  decision  however  in  Anderson  v.  Loos  A  and 
§§  75  and  212  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  seem  to 
recognise  the  Proctors'  lien  for  costs  both  as  regards  docu- 
ments and  upon  the  amount  of  a  decree,  derived  no  doubt 
from  the  principles  of  the  English  common  law  on  this 
question  now  embodied  as  regards  a  lien  on  a  fund  re- 
covered in  the  Solicitor's  Act  1860,  section  28. 

Kay  L.  J.  in  ex  parte  G oilier.  In  re  Taylor^ 
quotes  Sir  Thomas  Plumer  as  saying  in  1820  {Worrall 
V.  Johnson  ')   "  there  jj  are    two    kinds    of    lien    which    a 

1    ilS9a)  g.  C.  L.  JR.  66.  2  (1S91)  1  Ch.  599. 

3  1S20  2  J.andWSU,  SIS. 


28  COURT    OF     APPEAL     CASES 

'nijapHta"      solicitor     has    for   his    bill     of    costs,   one    on    the    funds 
recovered    and    the    other    on  the    papers   in    his   hands" 
'  J*  ...     and     the    Lord     Justice    added     that    the    lien 

extends  to  all  those  items  which  are  [  properly  included 
in  the  bill  of  costs,  or  as  the  learned  Lord  Justice  amplified 
it,  to  all  such  claims  against  his  client  as  the  taxing  mastar 
has  a  right  to  consider  and  if  necessary  moderate. 

In  Mackenzie  vs.  Macintosh ,  '  it  was  held  that  a  solicitor's 
lien  on  a  fund  recovered  extends  only  to  the  costs  of 
recovery  of  the  particular  fund,  while  a  lien  on  documents 
may  extend  to   all   costs  due  to  him  from  his  client. 

The  wording  of  the  sections  of  our  Code  in  regard  to  the 
question  before  us  is  unfortunate,  but  in  my  opinion  the 
reading  suggested  by  Mr.  Bawa  is  the  correct  one  t.e.,  that 
the  words  "  under  the  decree  "  are  both  surplusage  and  out 
of  place. 

It  is  clear,  no  costs  are  ever  decreed  to  be  paid  to  a 
Proctor,  and  that  the  words  "  under  the  decree "  are  un- 
necessary even  if  they  were  placed  following  the  word 
"decreed,"  but  in  that  position  they  do  no  more  than 
excessively  emphasize    and   reiterate   the   .preceding   word. 

I  cannot  see  that  the  point  raised  by  Mr.  Jayewardene 
is  applicable,  i.e.  that  there  must  be  a  decree  to  create  the 
lien.  There  is,  in  fact,  a  decree  in  the  action  itself  to  the 
effect  that  the  sum  brought  into  Court  be  paid  by  the  defen- 
dant to  the  plaintiffs. 

It  must  be  remembered  also  that  under  the  English  law 
the  right  of  lien  is  said  to  be  a  charge  in  the.natureof  salvage, 
Greer  v.  Young, '^^  and  applies  to  property  of  the  proctor's 
client  and  sometimes  even  to  money  paid  into  Court  for  his 
benefit.    Hunt  vs.  Austin  ^ ;  Etnden  vs.  Carte.  ■*■     Under  the 

A  64  Z.T.  706  CCA.)  3.     QSSSy  47  L.T.  300. 

2.  Q1SS3)  S4  Ch.  D.  545  {at  jj.  55S)  4.     Q18SJ).  45  Z.T.  3S8. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL     CASES  29 

decree  in  the  action  here  the   plaintiffs    are   held  entitled    to 

have  the  Rs.  200   paid  out   of    Court   to    them.     I    cannot      Ra^apik?" 

therefore  see  that  it  is  proposed  to  extend  the  lien  as  against 

„  MiddUton 

the  creditor  of  the  plaintiffs  as  the  District  Judge  holds.  J- 

In  Perera  v.  Perera^  Hutchinson  O.J.  construed 
the  words  of  §§  75  and  212  as  enacting  that  a  proctor 
has  a  lien  or  charge  on  the  amount  decreed  and  that 
that  charge  was  not  to  be  affected  by  a  claim  in.  re- conven- 
tion or  a  set  oS  and  that  no  effect  could  be  given  to  the 
enactment  unless  it  was  held  a  proctor  had  such  a  charge. 
With  his  view  not  only  do  I  entirely  agree  but  we  are  bound 
by  it. 

Here  the  defendant  seeks  to  set  off  his  order  for  costs 
against  the  plaintiffs,  as  against  the  sum  decreed  by  the 
Court  to  be  paid  by  him  to  the  plaintiffs,  and  I  think  §  212 
preserves  the  plaintiff's  proctor's  lien  on  that  sum. 

Aa  regards  the  Proctor's  costs  not  having  been  taxed 
at  the  time  the  motion  was  made  asserting  the  right  of  lien, 
I  cannot  see  how  this  would  prevent  the  right  of  lien  arising, 
which  apparently  extends  no  further  than  for  the  amount 
of  costs  as  taxed  :     -De  Bay  v.   Griffin^ 

In  my  opinion  the  order  of  the  District  Judge  should  be 
set  aside  and  the  motion  of  the  plaintiffs  and  the  proctor 
allowed  to  the  extent  of  the  taxed  costs  in  this  action  for 
the  recovery  of  the  money  now  in  Court. 

The  defendant  must  pay  the  costs  of  this  appeal  and  of 
the  discussion  and  order  in  the  Court  below. 

Appeal  allowed. 
Proctor  for  appellants — W.  E.  W eerasooriya . 
Proctor  for  respondents— G*.  Ranasooriya. 


1.    (1907)    U.  N.L.R.  1.  2.  Q875)  L.R.  10.  Ch.  S91. 


30  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES 

PRIVY    COUNCIL. 

CO  HE  A    V    ISERIS     APPUHAMY  et  al 
No.  3934,  D.  C.  Ghilaw. 

Present:    Lord  Macnaghton,    Lord  Mersey, 
Lord  Robson. 

14th    December    1911. 

Co-heir — Unity  of  title  and  possession— Possession  of  one  co-heir 
possession  of  all— Prescription — Legal  title — Secret  iMention — Adverse 
Possession — Ouster. — Long -continued  Possession — Presumption  of  ouster — 
Sec  3  Ord.  93  of  ISll. 

On  the  death,  of  a  person  intestate  hi«  heirs  haTe  unity  of  title  as 
well  a3  unity  of  poaeession . 

A  person  who  enters  into  posaession  of  immoveable  property  having 
■a  lawful  title  to  enter  cannot  divest  himself  of  that  title  by  pretending 
that  he  had  no  title  at  all  or  by  any  secret  intention  in  hia  mind.  A  oo- 
proprietor's  title  enures  to  the  benefit  of  all  his  co -proprietors  and  his 
possession  is  in  law  the  possession  of  his  co-owners. 

A  co-heir  who  has  had  undisturbed  and  uninterrupted  possession 
for  over  ten  years  cannot  acquire  a  title  by  prescription  unless  he 
gives  proof  of  adverse  or  independent  title.  The  title  of  a  coheir 
is  not  independent.  Nothing  short  of  ouster  or  something  equivalent  to 
it  could  make  the  possession  of  co-owners  adverse. 

The  principle  laid  down  byiWood  V.  C.  in  Thnmas'v,  Thomas^  "Possession 
is  never  considered  adverse  if  it  can  be  referred  to  a  lawful  title'*' held 
applicable  in  Ceylon. 

Semble,  In  certain  circumstances  a  court  might  presume  from  long 
continued  possession  if  undisturbed  and  uninterrupted  that  there  had 
been  an  ouster  or  something  equivalent  to  it. 

The  whole  law  of  limitation  is  now  contained  in  the  Ordinance 
of  1871. 

Tbis  was  an  appeal  by  the  plaintifE  in  D.C.  Chilaw  3934 
to  His  Majesty  in  Council  from  a  judgment  of  the  Supreme 
Court  dated  the  26th  May  1910  which  affirmed  a  judgment 
dated  the  15th  August  1909  of  the  District  Court  dis- 
missing plaintiff's  action  with  costs, 

1  a  K.S,  1,38. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES 


31 


The  facts  are  fully  stated  in  the  judgment  of  the  Privy 
Council. 

Lawrence,  K.  C,  with  him  Dornhost,  K.C,,  and  Barring- 
ton-Wara,  for  the'.plaintifE — appellant. 

Athifl&y  Jones,  K.C,  with  H.E.  Miller    for  the  defendants - 
respondents. 

Lord  Macnaghten: — This  seems  to  be  a  very  plain'caae . 

The  action  out  of  which  the  appeal  has  arisen  was  an 
action  for  partition  of  certain  lands,  part  of  the  estate  of 
one  Elias  Appuhamy  of  Galmuruwa,  in  the  district  of 
Chilaw, 

Elias  died  in  July,  1878.  He  was  never  married  and 
he  died  intestate.  His  heirs  were  his  brother  Iseris  and 
three  sisters.  Taking  by  descent  the  heirs  took  as  tenants 
in  common  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  18 
of  the  Partition  Ordinance  of  1863.. 

Elias  came  originally  from  Baddegama,  in  Galle  district, 
about  120  miles  from  Chilaw.  His  father  and  mother  and 
the  rest  of  his  family  lived  there  apparently  in  somewhat 
humble  circumstances.  Elias  prospered  in  Chilaw.  After 
a  time  he  was  joined  by  his  brother  Iseris,  who  says  that  he 
left  home  alone  when  he  was  10  years  old,  though  he  was 
probably  three  or  four  years  older  at  the  time.  The  two 
brothers  kept  a  shop  or  store  in  Chilaw,  in  which  they  seem 
to  have  been  jointly  interested.  But  it  is  admitted  that  the 
lands  in  question  in  this  action  were  the  separate  property 
of  Elias. 

At  the  time  when  Elias  died  Iseris  was  in  jail  under 
sentence  of  imprisonment  for  assault  and  robbery. 

The  property  being  thus  left    derelict,     possession     was 
taken  by  officials  of  the  District  Co  urt.    It  must  be  presum- 
ed that  such    possession    was    taken    for   the  benefit  of  the 
persons  rightfully  entitled. 

Iseris  came  out  of  jail  in  December,   1878.    Thereupon 


Oorea  v, 
Iseiis  Appu- 
hamy 


Lord  Mac 
naghten 


32 


COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES 


Oorea  t. 

Iseris  Appu- 

hfimy 


Lord  Mac- 
naghten. 


or  soon  afterwards,  he  entered  into  possession  of  the  intes 
ate's  lands.  The  circumstances  under  which  the  officials  o^ 
the  Court  relinquished  possession  in  his  favour  do  not  ap- 
pear in  evidence.  It  seems,  however  to  be  immaterial 
whether  there  was  an  order  of  the  Court  on  the  subject,  or 
whether  the  officials  who  must  have  known  who  Iseris  was, 
and  must  have  been  aware  of  his  relationship  to  the  intes- 
tate, retired  in  his  favour  without  any  specific  directions. 
The  trial  Judge  says  that  they  were  "  ejected  "  by  Iseris, 
but  no  statement  or  suggestion  to  that  effect  is  to  be  found 
in  the  evidence. 

Some  time  after  the  death  of  Elias  two  of  his  sisters 
made  their  way  to  Chilaw,  They  seem  to  have  been  kindly 
treated  by  Iseris,  who  gave  them  small  sums  of  money  from 
time  to  time,  and  allowed  them  to  obtain  provisions  from 
his  shop  without  payment.  Indeed,  one  of  the  sisters, 
named  Balohamy  lived  for  a  long  time  in  a  house  on  Meda- 
watta,  which  was  one  of  the  plots  or  parcels  of  land  belong- 
ing to  Elias  and  part  of  his  estate. 

In  1907  Iseris  by  deed  settled  the  intestate's  land  on 
his  son,  reserving  a  life  estate.  This  action]  on  the  part  of 
Iseris  was  the  talk  of  the  neighbourhood.  Balohamy,  who 
was  then  the  only  survivor  of  the  three  sisters,  became 
alarmed.  Lawyers  were  consulted.  Under  their  advice 
Balohamy  brought  an  action  for  partition  against  Iseris.  The 
action  was  confined  to  Medawatta,  on  the  score,  it  was  said, 
of  expense,  in  order  to  save  the  stamp  or  fee  which  would 
have  been  payable  if  the  whole  estate  had  been  the  subject 
of  the  action.  Then  Iseris  turned  her  out  of  her  home. 
Being  without  means  Balohamy  and  other  co-proprietors  in 
the  same  interest  sold  their  rights  or  claims  to  the  plaintiff 
Corea,  who  was  Balohamy 's  legal  adviser  and  advocate.  He 
brought  this  action  against  Iseris.  Iseris'  son  was  after- 
wards made  a  party  to  the  action. 

Iseris  in  his  defence  claimed   the   benefit    of    Ordinan  o 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES,  33 

No.  2'  of  1871,  entitled     "an  Ordinance  to  amend  the  laws   ,  corea  v. 

IsensAppu- 

regulating'  the  pi-tscription  of  actions."  *'*'">'• 

It   is  not  disputed  that  by    that  Ordinance,  or   by  an  Lord  Mac- 

naghten. 

earlier   Ordinance    of    18i$4    which    \Yas    repealed   by    the 

Ordinance  of  1871,  the  old  law  was  swept  awav.  The  whole 
law  of  limitation  id  now  contained  in  the  Ordinance  of  1871. 

Section  3  enaccts  that   ''  proof  of  the  andistai-Led  and 

nninterrupted  possession  by  a  defendant  in  any  action 

of  landtj  or  immovable  property  by  a  title  adverse  to  or 
independent  of  tliat  of  the  claimant  or  plaintiff  in  such 
action  ...for  10  years  previous  to  the  I)ringing  of  such 
action  shall  entitle  the  defendant  to  a  ib'cree  in  his  favour 
with  costs."  The  section  explains  what  is  meant  by 
undisturbed  and  uninterrupted  possession.  It  is  ''possession 
unaccompanied  by  payment  of  rent  or  produce,  or  per- 
formance of  service  or  duty,  or  by  any  other  act  by  the 
possessor  from  which  an  acknov/ledgment  of  a  right  exist- 
ing in  another  j)ersoii  would  fairly  and  naturally  be 
inferred."  Then  follows  an  analogous  provision  in  favour 
of  a  plaintiff  claiming  to  be  quieted  in  possession  of  lainls 
or  other  immovabhi  pro|)erty  under  similar  circumstances. 

In  the  present  action  the  plaintiff  Corea  offered  some 
evidence  tending  to  prove  that  Iseris  took  out  administration 
to  Elias.  There  certainly  was  a  testamentary  case  in  the 
District  Coui't  relating  to  th..-  iniestiite's  estate.  But  the 
record  of  the  case  is  missing,  and  ii  is  not  clear  whether  the 
ciisi'  was  concerLie<l  with  an  application  hy  iiffieials  of  the 
Court  or  witli  an  ap[ilication  by  Iseris  for  administration. 
The  District  .ludtre  held  thai  it  was  not  proved  that  Iseris 
ti>ok  oui  admiiiistratioii  to  his  l)i'<nhei''s  estat". 

The  plaintiff  also  en  l"a\ourerl  to  prove  that  Isei'is  had 
aoknow^dged  the  title  of  his,  e.o-projirietors  within  ten  year? 
of  the  commencetnent  of  the  action.  On  this  point,  also,  the 
Dir-rrict  Judge  was  agaiii.^t  the  plaintiff^ 


34  COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES. 

iSrirAppu-  Their  Lordships    accept  the   decision  of  the    District 

'*'™^-        Judge  on  these  twopoitits.  In  their  Lordships' opinion  they  are 

Lord  Mac-  "o*  material  to  the  real  question  at  issue.    Assuming  that  the 

nagnten.  possession  of  Iseris  has  been  undisturbed  and  uninterrupted 
since  the  date  of  his  entry  the  question  remains  :  has  he 
given  proof,  as  he  was  bound  to  do,  of  adverse  or  independ- 
ent title  ?  Hi.i  title  certainly  was  not  independent.  The 
title  was  common  to  Iseris  and  to  liis  three  sisters.  On  the 
death  of  Elias  his  heirs  had  unity  of  title  an  well  as  unity  of 
possession.  Then  oomes  the  question  :  was  the  possession 
of  Iseris  adverse  ?  The  District  Judge  held  that  Iseris  "enter- 
ed in  the  chiu-acfer  <>f  sole  heir  or  plunderer."  "  Whichever  it 
was."  sp.ys  tlie  learned  Judge,  "  so  he  continued,  and  ac- 
knowledgedno  title  in  any  one  else.  He  has  acquired  a  good 
prescriptive  title."  It  is  difficult  to  uudei-staml  why  it  should 
be  suggested  that  Iseris  may  have  entered  as  "  plunderer.t 
He  was  iii;t  witliont  his  faultM.  He  is  described  by  the  learned 
Judge  who  decided  in  his  favour,  as  "  a  convicted  forger  and 
thief,"  and  "expert  not  only  in  ci'ime  and  incarceration  but 
also  in  perjury."  l^ut  it  is  perhaps  going  too  fur  to  hold  that 
lie^was  so  fond  of  crooked  ways  and  so  bent  on  doing  wrong 
tliat  he  may  have  scorned  to  take  advantage  of  a  good  legal 
title  and  may  have  preferred  to  masquerade  as  a  robber  or  a 
bandit  and  to  di-ive  away  the  officers  of  the  Court  in  that 
character.  It  is  not  a  likely  story.  But  would  such  conduct 
>Vfre  it  cimceivable,  have  profited  hiui  ?  Entejing  into  pnhs- 
tssion,  and  having  a  lawful  title  to  enter,  he  could  ncjt  divest 
himself  of  that  title  by  iiretendiug  that  he  hiul  no  title  ,U  all. 
His  title  innst  have  enured  for  the  benefit  of  his  co- 
pniprietiirs.  The  principle  n'rugnised  by  >V'i)inl,  V  Q,.  in 
Thomr/.i  r.  T/inmi/.-.,'^  holds  gijod  :  '  ru?si.\-siijn  is  ne^■er  con- 
MilriT.l  adM'tM.-ir  it  (;:iul)M  n-'1'eri-Md  Inn  lawftil  titb'.' 

The  two  learned  Judges  in    the  Uourt  of  Appeal  did  not 
adopt  in  its  cntitfty  the  sutjuestion  of  the  trial  Judge.    They 

J.  2  K.  4-  J.   '.'j.  as. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CARES.  35 

both  held  that  Iseris   entezvd  as    "  sole    heir,"  and   that    his    ,  ^-''^^  ^'■, 
title  has  been  adverse  ever  since  he  entered.  They  hekl  that        '''■'^^•j- 
he  entered  as  "  sole  heir,"  apparently    because  he  had    it   in   Lord  Mac- 
his  mind  fi'om   tlie    first  to  cheat  his  sisters.    But    is  saoli    u      naghten, 
conclusion  possible  in  law  ?  His  pnssess^ion    was  in  law    the 
possession  of  his  co-ownera.     It  was  not  possible  for  him  to 
put  an  end  to  that  possession  by  iinj'  secret  intention  in    his 
mind,     Nothing  short  of  ouster  or  something    equivalent  to 
ouster  could  bring  about  that  result.  There    is  no    provision 
in  the  Oi-dinance  of  187L  analogous  to    the    enactment   con- 
tained in  Section  12  of  the  Staruti'    of  Ijimitations,  3   aiul  4 
Will.  IV.  c.  27,  which  makes  the   title   of    persons  "  entitled 
as  co-partners  joint  tenants  or  tenants  in  common  "  separate 
from  the  date  of  entry.     Before  that  Act  was  passed   it    was 
a  settled  rule  of  law,  that  the  possession  of  any  one    of  such 
persons   was   the  possession   of    the   other  or  others  of  the 
co-proprietors.     It  was  not  disputed  at  the  Bar   that  such    is 
now  the  law  in  Ceylon. 

The  learned  counsel  for  the  respondent,  who  argued  the 
case  with  perfect  candour,  and  said  all  that  could  be  said  on 
l)ehalf  of  his  client,  did  not  of  course,  question  tlie  principle 
on  which  Wood,  V.  C,  relied  in  Thomas  v.  Thomas  J  His  sub- 
mission was  that  the  Court  might  presume  from  Iseris'  long- 
continued  possession,  undisturbed  and  uninterrupted  us  it 
was,  that  there  had  been  an  ouster  or  something  equivalent 
to  ouster.  No  doubt  in  former  times  before  the  statute  of 
William  IV.,  when  the  justice  of  the  case  seemed  to  require 
it,  juries  were  sometimes  directed  that  they  might  presume 
an  ouster.  But  in  the  present  case  the  learned  Judge  did 
not  make  any  presumption  of  that  sort.  Nor  indeed  did 
Iseris  before  this  action  was  brought  attempt  to  rely  on 
adverse  possession.  His  pretence  was  that  he  was  sole  heir. 
In  the  first  partition  action  he  swore  that  he  did  not  know 
the  name  of  his  father  or  that  of  his  mother.  He  swore 
that  Baloliamy  was  only  a  cousin  ;  he  knew  nothing,  he  said, 

1    $  K.4-  J.    79.  83. 


r 


3'6  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

'^^?''<i~avr'    a-bont  his  family  except  that  he  w;td  the  only  bi-otherof  Elias. 

b'or  this  aurlafioiirJ   statenit-ni  hi-    was   iinlir^ted   for  perjury 

Wood-      ^j  j.|,j,  instance  of  the  Judge.  He   was  coiivitned  aiirl  sentenc- 
Renton,  J.  ^  *= 

ed  to  fine  ami  imprisonment,  The    Judije    who    pronotinced 

ricnteiice  obsei'vel  :  "  It  is  clear  that  he  was    determined    to 

lirf)VH  that  he  was  the   sole    lieir.    and    stivmionsly    to    deny 

anythiiio'  that  might  count  aLrainst  him.''    !>  that  as    it  may, 

this  is  not  a  ease  in   which  the   cireuinstanees    conkl    justify 

the  iiresumptioii  of  ouster  in  favoitr  of  sucli  a  man  as  Iseris. 

Thiir    Lordshii'S   will     therefore    liumhly    advise    Hir< 

Majesty   that  the  appeal  shdiild  be  all')W('i!,  the   judgment  of 

the  Supieiiie  Court  and  the  julgmfiit  of  the  District    Judge 

set  aside,  with  costs    in  both   Courts,   ami    decree    made    fo 

partition  of  tlie  lands  which  on  the  death  of  Elias  passt^d  l)y 

descent  to  his  lieirs.  The  respondents  will   pay  the    costs   of 

the  appeal.* 

Appeal  all.otied. 

Solicitors  for  Appellant— B////A.  Diittoii,  Hartlci/  <i.  hhjtii. 
Solicitors  for  Eespondent— <SVrr«/^<'  &  Mttllis. 


*  The  following  is  the  argument  of  Counsel,  asrepoited 
in  (1912)  A.C.  p.  232  :— 

P.  0  Lawrence,  K.C.,  Dortihorsf,  K.C.,  and  Barringlon-  Ward 
for  the  appellant,  contended  that  on  the  evidence  the  fii'st 
respondent's  possession  was  throughout  permissive  and  pre- 
carious and  was  held  as  co-owner  on  liehalf  of  himself  and 
his  co-owners.  In  Ceylon  a  co-owner  cannot  acquire  a  title 
to  land  by  prescription  against  the  other  co-owners.  They 
referred  to  Ordinance  22  of  1871  Sections  2  and  3.  The 
English  Act  :'.  and  4  Will.  4,  e.  27.  which  by  Sec.  12  dealt 
with  co-owners'  rights,  did  not  apply  to  Ceylon.  The 
English  Law  before  that  section  and  Ceylon  Law  recognized 
that  possession  by  one  eo-paroein'r  was  ixissesnion  by  all. 
The  strongest  evidence  shoiilil  be  given  of  a  distinct  claim 
by  the  defendant  to  hold  adversely  to  his  co-heirs   persisted 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  37 

ill  to  their   kn')wl.'<i<j;e.     He    must  show    chat   lie  held    by  a    ^^7"f,'^Y'' 

title  adverse  to  and  indt'peiidont  of  tln'  plaintiff.     Keference 

was  made   to    Barbij  ami    Bngniiqiifl'n   Lair  of   Liiniinfioii    2nd    ngTl^Jl  j 

ed.  [I    'Ml:    Ci/Nvi/    r     Doe    d.    Tai/hr-ion^  ;     a  judgment    of 

Bonser    C.    J.    in    an    iinname«l     case-  :    Punrliirala    v.    Bam 

Mmilitr^  :    AniPie^tkn  <i  r.  Rain  itcjnhi.' 

Atlifiicii-Joni'.i.  K.  ('.,  and  Hortire  Miller,  tor  the  lir.~r  res- 
pondent, Iseris  Appnhainy.  ctintended  that  tlip  evidence 
provpil  iiiat  lie  had  been  in  nndisputed  possession  for  more 
than  the  statutory  period  ut  domintis  and  without  any 
acknow  ledgment  direct  or  indirect  of  a  title  under  which 
(lie  apjjellant  could  claim.  He  entered  into  possession  as 
sole  heir  to  Elias  and  l)y  a  long  series  of  acts  known  to  the 
appellant's  vendors,  exercised  all  the  I'ights  of  sole  and 
beneficial  owner  during  the  whole  period  of  his  possession, 
which  lasted  for  about  thirty  years.  Evidence  of  actual 
oaster  or  its  equivalent  was  not  necessary  ;  if  it  were  it 
might  l)e  presumed  from  the  con<lnct  of  the  [larties.  They 
referred  to  S'lijiidii,  M'l.rikar  v.  Mnhannn'ubi"  and  Terunnanse 
V.  Jle/iikf."  It  was  contended  that  the  law  of  Ceylon  was 
analagons  to  the  English  Law  as  laid  down  in  ,^  and  4  Will. 
J-,  c.  27,  Sec.  12  and  I'eference  was  made  to  Hobbsr.  WaJe.'' 

Counsel  for  the  appellant  were  not  heard  in  reply. 


ABEYESEKKRA     v.     SILVA. 

No.  8,23S  C.  R.  Balapitiya. 

Premii :     Wood  Renton,   d. 

'lQi\i  December  1911. 

Partition — Lcn.ie  nf  nil  vndivided  shun-  pe/idini/  jm rtitiun—Alieiiiition 
-Void— Sec.  11  of  Ord.  10  of  1S63. 

A  lease  of  a  share  of  a  land  wliu-li  i<  tlie  subject  matter  of  partition 
proceedings,  during  the  ]iendency  of  such  proceedings,  is  void, 

1  {1S40-)  II  Ad  and  E  lOOS  .}   (_1S97)  S  Ciijlon  \.L.B.  137. 

2  (1899)  KocKs  Rej)  61,  62  3  {1903)  7  Ceylon  N.L.B.  91 

3  (1878)  1  Crylon  S.C  R.  64.  6   (1895)  1  Ceylon  N.L.R.  200 

7  (1887)  36  ch.     .  5i3 


38  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES, 

Abeyesekera  The  priiioiple  that  a  lease  is  ;i  pro  trinfo  atieuaiion  ought  not  to  be 

V.  Silva         limited  to  the  special  kind  o£  ownership  involved  in   a  possessory  action 
brought  by  a  lessee,  but  is  a  general  principle  applicable  to  all  cases. 

Oiwncumrdene  v.  Jlajapakse'i  followed. 

•'Undivided"  in  §  17  of  Ordinance  10  of  luttS  mnst  be  taken  to  n^ean 
undivided  in  the  eye  of  the  law. 

The  facts  are  set  out  i'ully  in  the  judginent  of  Wood- 
Renton  J.  as  follows  :— 

"The  questions  for  decision  in  this  case  arise  under  the 
lollowing  circumstances.  One  Simon  de  Silva  Wijesekera 
instituted  an  action  for  the  partition  of  the  land  described 
in  the  appellant's  plaint  on  the  25th  June  1908.  The  preli- 
minary decree  was  entered  on  the  10th  February  1909.  On 
the  24th  December  1908  Wijesekera  granted  a  mortgage  of 
an  undivided  share  of  the  land  in  question  to  the  lessor  of 
the  defendant-respondent.  On  2nd  September  1909  he 
leased  to  the  plaintiflEs-appellants  ^  share  for  five  years. 
Final  decree  in  the  partition  case  and  the  mortgage  decree 
in  favour  of  the  defendant  respondent  were  entered  up  on 
Ist  December  1909.  The  plaintiffs  appellants  rely  on  their 
lea^e ;  the  defendant-respondent  on  his  mortgage.  The 
property  was  seized  under  the  mortgage  decree  on  7th 
December  1909.  The  lease  to  the  appellants  was  registered 
on  14th  December  1909.  The  seizure  under  the  mortgage 
decree  was  registered  on  15th  December.  There  was  a  sale 
under  the  mortgage  decree  and  purchase  bj'  one  James  on 
l.")th  June  1910  and  a  Fiscal's  transfer  was  issued  on  his 
favour  on  24th  October  1910.  James  leased  to  the  respondent 
on  26th  April  1911  and  his  Fiscal's  transfer  was  registered 
on  13th  June  1911.  The  learned  Commissioner  of  Requests 
in  a  contest  between  the  appellants  aTid  respondent  has  held 
that  the  deeds  on  which  they  both  rely  are  void,  having 
been  executed  bj'  Simon  Wijesekera  after  he  had  instituted 
partition  action  and  before  final  decree  had  been  entered  up. 
He  has  accordingly  dismissed  appellants'  action  with  costs 

1.    (1805)    1  N.L.B-  S17. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  39 

and   the  present  appeal   is  brought   against   the  <lecree  in     ''"''^''^Ifiva" 
which  that  decision  has  been  embodied. 

Baiva  K.G.  for  the  plaintifiEs-appellantR.— A  lease  is  not  an 
alienation  and  therefore  §  17  of  the  Partition  Oi'dinaiioe  does 
not  apply.  The  term  "alieualion"  as  defined  in  Stiuiura  JtuU- 
cial  hktiniiarij  cannot  be  taken  to  include  a  h^asn.  Voet  defines 
"alienation"  as  every  act  by  which  dominium  iy  tran.sferred. 
See  Jaybwardene  uit  Partition  jk  91,  Under  a  lc;isi'  no  dinui- 
nium  passeH  to  the  lessee  and  the  lessor  is  still  the  owner 
of  the  property.  >>'o  doubt  a  lease  was  held  to  be  a  firu 
taiUu  alienation  (Goonewardene  v.  Rajapakse'^)  but  that  was  for 
tiie  purpose  of  giving  the  lessee  tlie  rights  of  a  possessor  and 
such  finding  should  be  restricted  to  possessory  actions. 
The  lease  although  made  before  the  final  decree  is  uf  a 
divideil  shai'e  and  §  17  prohibits  only  an  alienation  of 
undivided  shares.  In  Ap/tJiami/  r.  Paiiclu  Banda^  it  was 
held  that  an  alienation  during  the  ()endeDcy  of  a  partition 
suit  of  a  shave  or  interest  to  which  a  person  may  become 
entitled  under  the  final  decree  is  not  obnoxious  to  §  17. 
Applj'ing  that  reasoning  the  ^-resent  lease  e\en  if  an 
"alienation"  would  be  valid.  Sec.  13  has  made  special  p»-o- 
vision  in  the  case  of  a  lease.  \_Wood  liento/i,  J. — Bat  that 
refers  ta  leases  in  existnuce  before  the  partition  suit  was 
instituted.] 

Wadsivortk  for  the  Respondent. — The  decision  in  Goone- 
icanhne  v.  Rajapakse'^  lays  down  a  general  principle  as 
appears  from  the  judgment  of  Bonser  C.  J.  ;  this  case  has 
been  followed  in  a  number  of  later  cases.  The  principle 
cannot  be  restricted  to  possessory  actions.  The  lease  in  the 
present  instance  is  of  a  divided  share  of  the  land  — a 
lease  of  an  entity  which  at  that  time  had  no  existence 
as  the  land  was  still  undivided,  therefore  it  is  invalid. 
The  decision  in  Louia  Appuham;j  v.  Pimehi  Banda^  does 
not   apply    to  the    present  case   us  the   lease    here    is  not 

V{1S9'S)  1  y.  L.  R.  217  ^  {190Jt)  10  N.  L.  B.  19S. 


40  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES, 

■^''t'^suva"    "f  ^lie  rii,'hts  Of  iuterestt!   which   might  be   allotted  to  the 
lessor  under  the  decree. 
Wood- 

Renton,J.  ,^  ^y/.  |'.  Jai/ewanieni'  {'At  amicm    ruriai)  in  reply. —The 

absence  of  decisions  on  this  p(jiiit  shows  that  a  lease  does  not 
come  within  the  purview  of  §  17.  The  object  <if  the 
prohibition  in  §  17  is  to  |;revent  iiitei  ventions  in  and 
interference  with  partition  proceedings  by  persons  who  had 
acquired  title  to  shares  in  the  land  after  tlie  coinmencement 
of  the  action  ;  but  a  lease  has  no  such  effect,  it  is  a  mere 
mode  of  possessing  the  property.  If  it  were  held  otherwise 
absentee  owners  would  find  it  impossible  to  possesstheir 
properties.  Where  a  statute  creates  a  prohibition,  the  prohi- 
bition should  be  strictly  ennstrued  and  should  not  be  ex- 
tended by  analogy.  If  the  fi-amers  intended  to  include  a 
lease  nothing  would  have  been  easier  than  to  add  the  word 
"lease"  especially  as  they  have  included  the  word  "mort- 
gage". A  decision  that  a  lease  is  an  alienation  would  entail 
considerable  hardship  on  the  owners  of  propertj-. 

Wnchirorth.  If  the  reason  given  by  counsel  is  correct, 
hckW  is  it  that  persons  who  purchase  property  at  Fiscal's  sales 
during  the  pendency  of  partition  proceedinu-s  are  allowed  to 
intervene  y  *  . .  a.  i\ 

WOOd-RentOn ,  J.— (after  having  set  out  the  facts  as 
above,  continued): — Thei'e  has  been  no  contention  liere  that 
the  mortgage  in  favour  of  the  Defendant-Hespondent  was 
invalid.  We  ai'e  concerned  only  with  the  question  as  to  the 
li-ase  in  favour  of  the  appi'liants,  and  the  point  for  determi- 
nation is  whi-th^-r  it  is  voiil  in  ^iew  of  the  provisions  of 
section  17  of  Ordinanet-'  No.  ]n  of  1863.  The  api^ellants' 
counsel  argued  ihat  that  section  did  not  apply  on  two 
L'l'onnds  ;  in  the  tirsi  place,    thai    for   tlie   iinr])oses  of  Ordi- 

*■  See  Huhm  Cltand's  Res  Judicata  p.  723: — "The  pendency  of 
a  suit  for  the  partition  o£  land  does  not  withdraw  the  land  which  is 
sought  to  be  partitioned  from  the  reach  of  an  execution  at  law  against 
the  interest  of  a  part  owner."  Otherwise  a  debtor  by  instituting  parti- 
tion proceedingii  might  daky  his  creditors  ind6fihitely-^EI>IT0R&. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 


41 


nance  No.  10  of  1863,  a  lease  is  not  an  alienation,  and  in 
the  next  place,  apart  from  that,  that  Bectioi'  17  applies  onlj- 
to  nndivideil  interests,  and  that  it  appears  from  the  terms 
of  this  lease  itself  that  it  dealt  with  a  defined  portion.  I 
have  carefully  examined  the  authorities  which  were  cited 
to  me  in  the  course  of  the  argument  and  it  appears  to  me 
that  the  principle  laid  down  bj^  the  Supreme  Court  in  the 
case  of  Ooonewardene  v.  Rcijepahse^  a  principle  which  has 
been  followed  in  many  later  decisions — that  a  notarial  lease 
ii  a  pro  taiito  alienation— ought  not  to  be  limited  to  the 
special  right  of  ownership  which  was  directly  involved  in 
the  case  just  referred  to,  namely,  the  bringing  by  the  lessee 
of  a  possessory  action.  It  appears  to  me  that  it  is  because  a 
notarial  lease  is  a  uro  taiito  alienation  that  the  court  held  in 
Qooneioardem  v.  Bajapakse^  that  the  lessee  was  entitled  to  the 
ordinary  legal  remedies  of  an  owner  and  possessor.  I  do 
not  think  that  the  English  cases  as  to  the  meaning  of  the 
word  "alienation"'  can  give  us  much  help  in  interpreting 
the  term  here  in  Ceylon.  I  hold  that  the  first  point  taken 
in  favour  of  the  appellants  fails.  The  second  point  depends 
on  the  meaning  that  we  attach  to  the  word  "undivided"  in 
section  17  of  Ordinance  No.  10  oi  I'^GS.  I  wcs  impressed) 
in  the  course  of  the  iirgumont  by  the  decision  of  thb 
Supreme  Court  in  the  case  of  Louis  Afifuhamy  v.  Punchi 
Baiida.^  It  was  there  held  that  a  sale  or  mortgage  executed 
during  the  pendency  of  a  partition  suit  in  respect  of  a  share 
or  interest  to  which  a  person  may  become  entitled  after  the 
termination  of  such  suit  is  valid,  and  is  not  affected  by 
section  17  of  Ordinance  No.  10  of  1863.  "I  do  not  think," 
said  Sir  Charles  Layard  in  that  Cu,se,  "that  that  section  was 
"  intended  to  embrace  or  affect  or  to  hinder  or  prevent 
"  persons  from  alienating  or  mortgaging  the  right  to  which 
'•they  might  become  entitled  after  a  partition  had  been 
"  decreed  in  respect  of  the  land,  the  subject  of  partition  stiit 
"towhicli  they  were  parties."  On  further  consideration, 
however,  it  seems  to  me  that  that  decision  cannot  help  the 


Abeycsekeo 
V.  Silva 


Wood- 
Renton,  J 


i2  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Co'>netnie!(e 
V.  Saineria 


apppllnnt-'  here.     The  e;liare  lefevred  to  would    be  a  divided 

shaie  lit   tlie  iime    wiien    the    sale    oi' the  ruoi  tgage  became 

Word       effi'Clive.     In  the  ine^-eut  case  wliile  the  lease  speaks  of  the 
Rentei»,J,  .     ,       ,      .  ,   r.       ■ 

Biil>ject  matter   ot    tlie    letting   as   a  denned  portion,  it  was 

still,  I  think,  "undivided"  wiihin  the  meaning  of  fc^ection  17 

,  of  Ordinance   No.    10    of    1863.      In    iny  opinion,  the  word 

"nndivided"  for  (he  purpose    of    that   section  must  be  taken 

to  lueai)  undivided  in  the  eye    of    the   law.     I  have  not  been 

able  to  obt;tin    ariy    direct    authority    to    guide    me   in   the 

decision  of  this  case.     But   I    have  considered  all  those  that 

were  cited,  and  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  appeal 

should  be  dismissed  with  costs 

Appeal  Dismissed. 
Proctor  for  Ap).)ellant— B.  Ampra-iekfra. 

Proctor  for  Res[Hmdent — W.  E.  de  Silva. 


GOONETILLEKE  v.  SAINERIS 

No.  15S76  P.  C.  Xegombo. 

Present :    Wood  Slesiton,  il. 

I2th  October,  1911. 

Arracli — Pogsesiiitn.  of  less  thax,  tiw  tiuai'ts—&  3$  3;  SS  of  Ordinance  10 
nf  18U. 

The  pobsePision  of  less  than  two  quarts  of  spirits  \%  not  an  offence  under 
§  33  ot  Ordinance  10  of  18i4, 

In  this  case  the  accused  was  convicted  under  §  32  of 
Ordinance  10  of  1811:  of  having  possessed  ';)  gills  of  arrack, 
not  legally  sold  to  him  by  the  licensed  I'etail  dealor  and  was 
ordered  to  pay  a  fine  Rs.  50.     He  appealed. 

D6  Alwk  (with  f/fl  Zoijsa)  for  the  aocused-appellant.^r^ 
Although  the  Ordinance  is  silent  on  the  point,  §  33 
seems  to  imply  that  the  removal  of  less  than  2  quarts  of 
arrack  wiihout  a  .permit  nray  be  done  without  any  offence 
being  ciuijuiitted. '  The  whole  Ordinance  must  be  I'ead 
t'lu-lljf'p'.  Ill  Eiiilorlx  :lf  Si'ra  /■.  Slwna'^  it  was  held  that 
lK).>bi-br;i(in  of  arrack  in  It  bs  quantity  than  2  quarts  is  not  an 
r.ffencv  tinder  §  32.  •        -  • . 

1.     (1878)     Mam  187a--10r$,  p:  0l€. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES.  43 

Walter    Pereira,    Zv.0,;5.  g',  was  heai-d   contra  as   Amicus    '^"l'^^^^^" ■ 
Curies. 

Wood- 
Wood-Renton,  J. — The  accused  appellimt  lias  been    Rentcn,  J. 

convicted  under  section  32  of  Oi'dincnce  Xo.  10  of  1844,  of 
having  possessed  9  gills  of-  arructj-  not  l<<;all3'  sold'  to 
liiQi  by  a  licensed  a'etail  dealer,  and  has  been  ordered 
to  pay  a  fine  hI:  Rs.  5('.  It  was  iiruned  on  behalf  of  the 
appellant  tluit  the  conviction  was  bad  on  tbe  ground  that 
the  possession  of  less  than  two  qnaits  ofspiiits  is  not  an 
offence  under  section  32  of  tbe  Ordinance  of  1841,  After 
hearing  his  counsel,  and  the  learned  i^olicitor  General  as 
ainicus  curi(E,  I  feci  bound  to  uphold  this  contention. 
Section  32  itself  says  nothing  as  to  the  quantity  of  spirits, 
the  possession  of  which  is  unlawful  unless  it  can  be  brought 
within  one  of  the  exceptions  which  are  embouied  in  the 
section.  It  was  held,  however,  in  the  case  of  Eruloris  de 
Silva  V.  ShoiKt,'^  that  possession  of  arrack  in  less  quantity 
than  two  quarts  is  not  an  offence  within  tlie  meaning  of 
section  1^2  of  Crdinance  10  of  184i.  I  am  not  aware  of  any 
other  authority  directly  in  point.  But  that  case  is  one  of 
old  standing,  autl  I'  think  that  I  ought  to  follow  it.  I  am 
all  the  more  disposed  to  do  this  because  section  33  of  the 
Ordinance  allowf4,  by  implication,  arrack  in  any  quantity 
not  exceeding  two  quarts  to  be  removed  without  a  permit, 
and  thereby  seems  to  imply  that  such  a  quantity  of  arrack 
may  be  possessed  without  any  offence  being  committed.  I 
set  aside  the  conviction  and  sentence  and  direct  the  acquit- 
tal of  the  accused. 

Conviction  quashed. 

Proctor  for  Appellant. —  D.  J.  S.  Gumwardeiie 


1.     (1S76)     Earn.  IS73—1S76,  p.  Sib. 


44  COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 

WIJKSOORIYA     V.     MEPI  NONA 

No.  8919  D.  0.  Galle. 

FTesent :— IVIidcileton  &  Wood  Ronton,  J.J. 

r)th  February   1912. 

Costs— Sereral  diifendn iiis  employing  one  Proctor— Defeiu-es  separate— 
night  of  proctor  to  recorer  costs  from  each  defe>id»,nt—One  defendant 
successful  —LiabiHty  of  plaintiff  to  pay  costs  to  successful  defendant. 

When  two  defendants  supporting  their  defences  entirely  independent 
of  each  other  employ  the  same  proctor,  each  defendant  would  be  separately 
liable  in  costs  to  the  Proctor  ;  and,  if  judgment  is  given  in  favour  of  one 
defendant  with  costs  against  the  plaintiff  auoh  defendant  is  entitled  to 
recover  from  the  plaintiff  the  full  costs  to  which  he  has  been  put  In 
defending  the  action. 

Abdtd Iio,h,im  r .  Ameresekera.i  distinguished. 

P»r  Middleton,  J,— The  criterion  of  liability  to  the  defendants  in  whose 
favour  the  order  for  costs  is  made  is  the  liability  of  the  defendants  them- 
selves to  their  proctor. 

In  this  case  thf  L— 7  defendants-iippellants  were  sued 
bj-  the  plaintiff  for  a  partition  of  land,  the  appellants  objecting 
to  the  inclusion  in  the  partition  of  a  lot  marked  \i.  The 
appellants  were  represented  by  a  proctor  who  was  subse- 
quently retained  for  the  16th  defendant  who  hud  been  added 
as  a  party  on  the  ground  that  he  claimed  a  planter's  interest 
in  the  land  and  whose  claim  was  independent  of  that  of  the 
other  defendants.  The  Court  dismissed  the  action  and  order- 
ed the  plaintifiE  to  pay  the  costs  of  the  1 — 7  defendants,  and 
the  16ch  defendant  to  pay  the  costs  of  the  plaintiff.  Upon 
taxation  of  costs  the  plaintiffs  objecteion  the  authority 
of  Abdul  Rahiman  v.  Amerasekera'^  that  1—7  defendants 
were  only  entitled  to  pay  half  their  costs  against  them, 
and  the  District  Judge  upheld  this  view  against  which  the 
1 — 7  defendants  appealed. 

Bawa  K.  G.  foi-  appellants.— This  is  not  a  case  of  joint 
defence.  Our  claim  to  costs  should  not  be  affected  by  the 
conduct  of  the  proctor  in  allowing  himself  to  be  retained  by 
parties  who  had  nothing  to  do   with  us.     Abdul   Uahmmi  v. 

\.    (1911)    14    N.  L.  B.  ^6. 


COXTRT     OF     APPEAL     CASES.  45 

Amarasekora  '  ^vonl'l  not   apply,  bwc  Beaumont  v.    Senior   irnd  ^'^Jf^p'^? "„';^ ' 

Middle-ton 

Waihworth  for  respondpfit. — The  true    test    is     in    what  J. 

amount  is  a  party  liable  to  his  proctor  [Fow?  Renlon  J 
Suppose  three  persons  retain  the  same  proctor  at  three 
different  times  in  the  course  of  a  case,  wcjuld  they  not  each 
be  liable  lo  the  proctor  in  the  full  amount  of  co.-rs?]  Abaui 
Rahiman  v.  Amar.isekera  stiys  that  they  would  be  liable 
only  in  tlie  absence  of  any  agreement  {_WoocI  Benton  J.  But 
here  there  was  no  agreement].  It  is  submitted  that  a  proctor 
who  allows  himself  to  be  retained  by  more  persons  than  one 
sliould  not  be  alloweii  to  recover  full  coats  from  each  of  them- 

c.  a.  V. 
Bawa  K.  C.  in  rei)l> 

Middleton  J.  (after  stating  the  facts  said) :  The  principle 
laid  down  in  Beaumont  v.  Senior  and  Bull  ^  upon  which  the 
decision  in  Abdtd  RitMmanv.  Amarasekera  *  is  founded  is  that 
a  successful  defendant  is  entitled  to  recover  from  the  plain- 
tiff the  costs  he  has  incurred  in  defending  the  action,  and 
that  those  costs  must  depend  on  the  liability  of  the  defend- 
ants to    their  proctor. 

If  two  defendants  supporting  a  similar  defence  employ 
one  proctor  and  have  no  agreement  as  to  how  the  costs  are 
to  be  borne  I  think  on  the  authority  of  the  case  cited  that 
each  of  the  defendants  is  liable  to  their  proctor  foi  half  the 
costs  of  the  defence  and  that  would  be  the  amount  which 
the  plaintiff  would  have  to  pay  the  snecessful  defendant.  If 
however  two  defendants  are  supporting  their  defences  en- 
tirely independent  of  eacli  other  it  seems  to  me  that  though 
each  has  employed  the  same  proctor  the  liability  of  each  to 
the  proctor  may  be  distinct  and  separable. 

Here  the  16th  defendant  though  he  supported  the  1 — 7 
defendants'  defence,  yet  got  himself  added  on  the  ground 
that  he  had  a  planter's  interest.  'J  he  District  Judge's  order  was 

1.  (1911)  14  N.  L.  B.  S36.        S,  (1903)  1  K  .B.  SSS. 


46  (JOtJRT   OF   APPEAL   CASES. 

wijesooriya     [hat  wheie  the  proctor  and  advocate  appeared    for  the  1 — 7 

.wepiNona.      defendants  Solely  the  fall   costs    of   their   appearanco    were 

'  ^    ^     to  be  paid  by  the  plaintiff,  bnt  if  they  appeared  for  all    the 

Renton,  J.,  defendants  then  the  plaintiff  was  to  p.iy  only  half   the  fees. 

This   does   not   seem   to  rae    to    be  in  accordance  with    the 

ruling  of  this  Court  in  Ahihd  nahimaii  v.  Amerutiekera.^ 

The  criterion  of  liability  to  the  defendants  in  whose 
favour  the  order  for  costs  is  mad?  is  the  liability  of  the 
defendants  themselves  to  tht-ir  proctors. 

The  1—7  defendants  whose  defence  was  put  forward 
entirely  independent  of  the  IGth  defendant  though  it 
happened  to  be  the  sami%  would  be  liable  to  (heir  proctors 
quite  separate  from  the  IGth  defendant,  and  to  this  extent 
they  are  liable  to  their  proctors  for  taxed  costs  and  would  be 
liable  to  claim  such  costs  on  taxation  against  the  plaintii?. 

I  would  therefore  vary  the  order  of  the  District  Judge 
by  directing  that  the  1—7  d.;fen  hints  be  entitled  to  be  paid 
by  the  plaintiff  all  such  costs  as  are  properly  payable  by  the 
1 — 7  defendants  to  their  pi-octnr  and  advocate  in  defending 
the  action  quit'^  apart  from  the  retainer  by  the  16tJi  defend- 
ant of  the  same  legal  advisers. 

The  appellants  will  have  the  costs  of  the  appeal  and  of 
the  proceedings  upon  taxation  and  review  in  the  District 
Court. 

Wood  Ronton  J. — The  question  at  issue  in  this  case 
is  whether  the  learned  District  Judge  has  rightly  applied 
the  principle  laid  down  by  the  Supreme  Court  in  the  case  of 
Ahdul  Uahiman  v.  Ajiifiraae^'era  >,  following'  the  case  of 
Beaumont  v.  Senior^,  to  the  circumstances  of  the  present  case. 
In  those  cases  two  sets  of  defendants  jointly  retained,  and 
were  jointly  represented  by,  the  same  proctors  and  solicitors 
respectively  for  the  purpose  of  the  trial.  It  was  held  that 
where  judgment  was  given  in  favour  (>f  one  defendant  and 
against   the    oilier,    the    successful    defendant   was,   in    the 

I    (1911)  UN.  L.B.  S2S.  2,  (1003)  83  L.  T.  S3I, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES.  47 

alipcnce  of  nny  iifrfrrnpi  t  between  biinjmd  liin  co-defendnnt      ''sjfv"  "' 

as  to  huw  till  ir  co^ik  \\'(  le  to  lie    boi-ne    iiUer  sc,    entitled    to 

recover  Iroiij  ilie  ijluii^till  Ijulf  the  cohlB  of  the  ilel'eiice.  Weed 

^  Ronton,  J,. 

]n  iiiY  opiiiii  u    tliaf    j)i'iiici)ile    has    no  upplicatioii  to  a 

case  like  tlie  present  wliei'i',  idthoiigb  the  appellants  an<l  the 

■,idiie(i  (lefendaiit  wne  in  fact  repi-eseiited  at  the  trial  by  the 

same  proctor,  they  did  not  retam  biu)  jointly  nor  were  they 

ia  any  sense  acting  jointly   in  their  defence.     I  agree  to  the 

order  proposed  by  my  brother  Middleton. 

Appeal  allowed. 

Proctor  for  Appellant — IF.  E.  Wenrasooiiya 
Proctor  for  Respoudeut — Sam.  Weerasooriya. 


_    MODDER  »,..SILVA. 
No.  11,9,'5  P.  C.  Kurunegalle. 
Present:    Wood     Renton,  d. 
2Cth  February  1912. 

Uidau-fuC  Oame    of  skUl—Vlayifig  for  a   Stoke — EUmerd  of  chance — 
Gaming — Gaining  Ordiyiance  17  of  1889  Sec.  6  (a.) 

Playing  a  pure  gnme  of  skill,  where  it  ia   for  a  stake  ie   unlawful 
gaming  within  the  meaning  of  Sec.  5   (n)  of  Orel.  17  of  1889. 

The   e.'ifence  of  the   iiflen<e  of  yarning  is  the  existence  of  a  stake  for 
which  the  iJuvtieB  plaj'. 

TheTO  is   no  inovifion  in  Ord.  Ko.   17  of  1889,  which  makes  "chance" 
a  necessary  element  of  unlawful  s;aming. 

In  this  case  the  accused  was  convicted  under  Sec.  ."•  (a) 
of  Ord.  17  of  1889  of  keeping  a  comiuon  gaming  place  and 
senteuoed  toptyafiiiaof  lis,  "25.  Tlie  game  ia  thus  described  :- 
Rings  were  thrown  on  a  slanting  taWe  to  which  153  ten  cent 
pieces  and  4  flft.v  cent  piecns  waw^,  attached.  One  c^nt  was 
la^able  for  (  ach  throw.  If  the  ring  enclosed  a  coin,  the 
thiiiwrr  became  th-  winner  of  th''  coin  enclo.-:ed. 
The  learned  I'oHce  .Magistrate  held  that  this  .was  a  pure 
game  of  skill  but  lie  conviot-ed  the  accused  holding  that  the 
game  Waa.piay'dd  ft)r  a  f.ti^ke.     The  atjbtis'etl  ap^iiTBti. 


48  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Modder ».  Dnlasinnham  for  appellant.— The  staking  of  money  does 

Silva.  c    1  1  i_ 

not  render  a  pure  game  of  skill  unlawful  under  the 
Wooi  Ordinance,  i  see  Bamaimthan's  Reports  1877  p.  S3  and  thf. 
Renton,  J.,  j,^jgj^g,|j  ^^  Cockburn  C.  J.  in  the  case  of  Bew  r.  Hariton.^) 
As  a  matter  of  factjmonej"-  was  not  staked  on  this  occasion. 
The  facts  show  that  the  accused  offered  a  certain  sum  uf 
money  if  the  ring  fell  at  a  certain  place.  Tills  clearly 
amounts  to  playing  on  credit  which  is  not  an  offence  under 
the  Ordinance  (see  PuJiai/ambi/  v.  Carolis  ^  and  Perem  v. 
Sidcii  appu^ . 

Akbar  C.  C,  for  the  liespoudent. — The  case  in 
Mamunathaii  s  Reports  was  decided  under  Sec.  4  (4)  of  Ordi- 
nance 4  ot  18-1-1,  which  prohibits  games  of  chance  only. 
This  sub-section  was  repe.led  by  Ord.  17  of  1889,  which, 
in  its  turn,  prohibited  gaming  for  a  stake  irrespective  of  the 
nature  of  the  game,  namely  whether  it  was  a  game  of  skill 
or  a  game  of  chance  or  of  mixed  chance  and  skill  (see  Sec. 
S,  definitions  of  "  Common  Gaming  place "  and  "  Instru- 
ments and  appliances  of  gaming  ").  The  English  cases  show 
that  the  statute  corresponding  to  Ord.  17  of  1889  prohibited 
games  for  stakps  and  had  for  theif  object  the  prevention  of 
shsyiy  characters  congregating  in  undesirable  places  (See 
LcrJarou'l  r.  <'ooi>n-  *,  Dijnoii  v.  ihicon,''  Jf'iikn  v,  Turpin  ^') 
As  regards  the  (}ii'  stina  wlietlier  the  present  case  is  one  of 
a  game  for  a  stake  or  not,  the  accused's  own  statement 
shows  that  when  the  ring  encloses  any  of  the  coins  on  the 
table  it  becouits  the  property  of  the  thrower.  This  case  is 
not  one  of  betting  on  credit  Here  the  stakes  were  actually 
put  down  before  the  play  commenced. 

Mr,  Tambiali  as  amicus  turiae  referred  the  court  to  the 
case  of  Ahmni  Khan  v.  Emperor.  '' 

Wood  Renton  J. —The  accused-appellant  was  con- 
victed in  the  Police  Court  of  Kurunegalle  of  having  kept  a 
I'oom,  of  which  he  w:is  tliH    occupier,  as  a    common    gaming 

1.    (1878)  3  Q.  B.  D.  4S5.  4.    (1903)    S  K.  B  ^SS. 

s:    11893)2S.  C.B.6S.  5.    (J8S9)     S  Q.  B.  D.  363. 

■1.    (18e3)SS.C:E.75.  6.     (18S4)    13  Q.B.  D.mfi. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  49 

place,  and  of  having  thereby  committed  an  offence  punishable       '*^°|jiva  "' 

under  section  5  (a)  of  Ordinance  No,  17  of  188'J.   The  Police 

Magistrate  has  sentenced  him  to  pay  a  fine  of  Rs.  25.     It  is  „^*'*'*'  , 

^  •'  Renton,  J. 

not  disputed  that  the  appellant  was  the  occupier  of  the  hoase 

in  question,  or  that,  if  the  game  alleged  to  have  been  allowed 
to  be  played  on  the  premises  is  one  oi  a  class  against  which 
the  Ordinance  is  directed,  the  room  so  used  was  a  common 
gaming  house.  The  game  was  thus  described  in  effect 
by  the  appellant  himself  in  his  evidence  at  the  trial, 
The  principle  of  play  was  to  throw  rings  on  a  slant- 
ing table  to  which  153  ten  cent  pieces  and  four  fifty 
cent  pieces  were  affixed.  One  cent  was  payable  for  each 
throw.  If  the  ring  enclosed  a  coin,  the  thrower  became  the 
winner  of  the  coin  enclosed.  The  learned  police  Magistrate 
held  that  this  was  a  pure  game  of  skill,  and  I  will  decide 
the  present  appeal  on  the  footing  that  that  finding  is  correct, 
although  I  find  in  the  case  of  Ahmad  Khan  v.  Emperor,  '  to 
which  I  have  been  kindly  referred  by  Mr.  Tambyah  as 
amicus  curiae,  that  two  judges  of  the  High  Court  of 
Allahabad  held  that  the  element  of  chance  in  a  game  consis- 
ting of  throwing  a*riug  over  a  pice  is  so  strong  that  the  game 
cannot  be  held  to  be  a  mere  game  of  skill.  The  question' for 
decision  is  whether  the  learned  Police  Magistrate's 
interpretation  of  the  law  in  the  present  case  is  correct.  It 
was  held  in  P.  C,  Jaffna  No.  S838  ^  that  for  the  purpose  of 
section  4  of  Ordinance  No.  4  of  1841,  a  game  is  not  unlawful 
where  it  is  one  of  skill  alone.  I  do  not  think,  however,  that 
that  decision  can  be  made  to  apply  to  a  prosecution  under 
section  5  of  Ordinance  No.  17  of  1889.  The  language  of 
section  4  (4)  of  Ordinance  No.  4  of  1841  by  clear  implication 
makes  chance  a  necessary  element  of  an  unlawful  game. 
There  is  no  provision  to  that  effect  in  Ordinance  No.  17  of 
1889.  The  essence  of  the  offence  of  gaming,  as  defined  by 
that  Ordinance,  is  the  existence  of  a  stake^for  which  the 

t,    {1911)    13  Crim :  Law  Journal  of  India,  SIZ. 
2.     {IST?)  Ram  :  S3. 


^0  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES, 

Modaer  v.       parties   ulav   (see    Tuhakimibii  i'.   Ko-roHs    '    Hml    Perera    r. 
■'^/'(hllappi/.-) 

Riiiton,  J.  On  the  showing  of  the  appellant  hiuicielf  a  stake  was  clearly 

l)layed  tor  in  the  present  case.  The  view  of  the  law  that  1 
am  taking  here  is  confirmed  by  Englisli  decisions.  It  was  held 
liy  Lord  Campbell  C.  J.  and  Coleridge,  Wightman.  and  Erie 
J.  J.,  as  far  back  as  1852,  in  Reijina  v  Ashton  ■^  that  the  object 
(if  the  analogous  English  statute,  3  George  IV,  C.  16, 
section  21,  was  to  prevent  the  contracting  of  bad  habits 
by  the  practice  of  games  where  money  was  staked  in  public 
bouses.  ■'  If  money  were  staked  "  said  Lord  Campbell  that 
would  ■•  be  gaming".  This  decision  wasfollowed  by  Mellor  J. 
in  Beiv  v  Harslun  ;  '  although  Sir  Alexander  Cockburn  C.  J. 
in  the  same  cas«',  doubted  its  correctness.  In  Di/non  /■  Mason  ' 
Huddleston.  B.  aad  Wills  .J.  said  Cockburn  C.  J's  view  was 
unsupported  by  any  other  authority,  and  liekl  that  playing 
any  game  for  a  stake  is  unlawful.  The  oni>-  authority  in 
support  of  a  contrary  view  that  I  am  aware  of,  is  the  case  of 
Rari  Sing  v.  Emperor,''  to  which  Mr.  Tambyah  has  also  referred 
me,  where  it  was  held  that  if  a  game  is  one  of  skill  the  playing 
of  it  is  not  an  offence  under  the  Indian  Gaming  Act  of  1867. 
The  judgment  is  a  short  one.  None  of  the  English  cases  to 
which  I  have  referred  are  mentioned  in  it,  and  I  am  not 
prepared  to  follow  it.  The  appeal  is  dismissed. 

Appeal  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  appellant — P.  Tamhiraiah. 


{1803)    S  8  0.B  62.  2.     ( 1893 )    S  S.  C.  B.  75. 

(IS54)    1  E.  4-  B.  286.  4.    (1887)    3  Q.  B.  D.  455. 

■5.    (1889)    2.Q.  B.I).35S. 
6.     (1907)    6  Crim:  L.  Journal  of  India,  J,21. 


COURT   OF  APPEAL   CASES.  51 

SEKAN  MARIKAE  r.  GODAGE. 

No.  6681  C.R.  GALLE. 

Prfimit :  Wood  Renton  J. 

S3rd  November  1911. 

FiKcul's  cunccijdiife — mortgage aiiion — 'laurtgage  lici'rcr — simple  iiwiuij 
decree — purcJtnser  iit  FiscaVs  mh — relation  bach  of  title — notire  of  action 
— seiaure  not  an  enonmhrancc — registration  of  nssigwiiieiit  0} mortgage — Ciril 
Procedure  Code  §  SS9,  643,  6U. 

A  person  who  has  purchased  property  at  a  Fiscal's  sale  but  has  not 
obtained  a  transfer  has  no  title  and  is  not  entitled  to  have  notice  of  an 
action  which  a  mortgagee  of  such  property  is  bringing  to  enforce  his  bond. 

The  true  date  of  the  purchase  undei'  a  Fiscal's  sale  is  the  date  of  execut- 
ion of  the  Fiscal's  conveyance  and  §  289  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  has 
not  tlie  effect  of  making  the  purchaser's  title  on  the  execution  of  that 
conveyance  relate  back  to  the  date  of  the  aotudl  sale  for  the  purposes  of 
§§  643,  644  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

A  Fiscal's  seizure  is  not  an  encumbrance  within  the  meaning  of  §  643 
of  the  Code. 

The  registration  of  the  assignment  of  a  mortgage  bond  is  sufficient  to 
cure  the  omission  to  register  the  bond  itself. 

Peiris  v.  Pererai  followed. 

This  was  an  action  rei-vindicatio.  The  plaintiff  respQnd- 
ent  sued  the  defendant  appellant  for  declaration  of  title  to 
a  \  share  of  a  field.  The  plaintiff  purchased  the  share  at  a 
Fiscal's  sale  held  in  execution  of  a  simple  money  decree 
against  one  Samsy  Lebbe  who  owned  a  half  share  of  the 
field  jointly  with  one  Kadija  Umma.  The  sale  took  place 
on  the  5th  Nov.  1910,  the  seizure  having  been  registered 
on  the  19th  Oct.  1910  and  the  Fiscal's  conveyance  was 
issued  to  the  plaintiff  on  the  25th  March  19ll.  Previous  to 
the  seizure  and  sale  Samsy  Lebbe  and  Kadija  Umma  had 
mortgaged  a  half  share  including  the  share  in  question  to 
Dawudu  Marikar.  The  mortgage  bond  was  not  registered. 
Dawudu  by  deed  of  assignment  dated  5th  June  1903  and 
registered  24th  July  1903  assigned  the  mortgage  to  one 
Ahamadu   Ismail,   who  l)y   deed  of   assignment  dated   29th 

[I.  [1906]  10  N.L.B.  SS.\ 


52         COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Sekan  Marikar  Jniy  igiQ  and  registered  25th  Oct.  1910  assigned  it  to 
Godage  xjdnma  Lebbe  Marikar.  The  latter  put  the  bond  in  suit  on 
the  12th  Nov.  1910  mailing  only  the  debtors  parties  to  the 
action,  and  obtained  a  hypothecary  decree.  The  field  was 
thereafter  sold  under  the  decree  and  the  defendant  liecame 
the  purchaser  of  the  }  share  of  Sainsy  Lebbe ;  Kadija 
Umina  having  died  in  the  meantime.  The  Fiscal'^  sale  took 
place  on  the  7th  February  1911  and  the  Fiscal's  conveyance 
to  the  defendant  was  issued  on  the  80th  June  1911.  The 
plaintiff  who  could  not  obtain  possession  of  the  field  sued 
the  defendant  for  declaration  of  title.  The  commissioner 
held  that  on  the  obtaining  of  the  Fiscal's  transfer  by  the 
plaintiff  his  title  related  back  to  the  date  of  the  sale  and 
therefore  he  was  entitled  to  notice  of  the  mortgage  action 
and  that  without  such  notice  he  was  not  bound  by  the 
hypothecary  decree.  He  accordingly  gave  judgment  for 
plaintiff.     The  defendant  appealed. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene,  for  the  defendant-appellant. — At 
the  date  of  the  institution  of  the  mortgage  action  the  plaintiff 
had  no  right  or  title  to  the  property  and  the  property  was 
still  vested  in  the  judgment  debtor.  The  plaintiff  was  never 
in  possession,  so  that  having  neither  title  nor  possession  he 
was  not  entitled  to  be  made  a  party  to  the  action.  The  regis- 
tration of  the  assignment  of  a  mortgage  bond  is  sufficient  to 
cure  the  omission  to  register  the  bond  itself  :  Peiris  v.  Ferera'^ 
and  Silva  v.  Gomis.^  The  mortgage  bond  having  been  regis- 
tered the  defendant  who  bought  under  that  decree  had  a  sup- 
erior title.  In  60  B.  O.  (Inty)  Matara^  which  is  on  all  fours 
with  this  case  the  same  principle  was  upheld. 

H.  A.  Jayewardene  for  the  plaintiff-respondent.— The 
plaintiff  is  not  bound  by  the  mortgage  decree  as  he  was  not 
made  a  party  to  the  action.  The  defendant  could  make  the 
plaintiff's  title  subject  to  his  only  if  he  complied  with  §§  643 
and  644  of  the  Code.  The  defendant  cannot  claim  the  bene- 

1.  (1906)  10  N.  L.  B.  33.  2.  {1909)  1  Cur.  L.  B,  96. 

S.  S.  C.  Min :  22nd  June  I9IO, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  53 

fit  of  these  sections  'as  the  deed  of  mortgage  itself   had  not  S'^kan  Marikar 
been  registered  and  the  mortgagee's  address  had  not  been  re-      Codage. 
gistered  for  service  of  notice.     The  registration  of  the  assign-     \Yood 
ments  is   oC   no  avail  under  these  sections  as  they  require    Renton, 
the  original  deed  itself  to   be   registered.     The   facts  of  the 
Matara  case  are  different. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene in  replj':— §§  643 and  644  have  no 
application  because  at  the  date  of  institation  of  the  action  the 
plaintiff  was  not  a  puisne  incumbrancer  and  he  had  no 
"deed"  in  his  favour,  §  643  requires  notice  of  action  to  be 
given  to  "  all  grantees,  mortgagees,  lessees,  and  other  encum- 
brancers whose  deed  oi  conveyance  ...  or  other  incumbrance 
shall  be  of  date  subsequent.     . 

e.  a.  V. 

Wood  Renton  J- — The  pluintiflf  respondent  bought 
ii  :}th  share  of  a  field  called  Ama  Lebbege  Wela  at  a  sale  in 
execution  against  one  Samsy  Lebbe,  iwho  owned  \  share 
jointly  with  Kadija  Umma,  on  a  money  decree.  The  sale 
took  place  on  5th  November,  1910,  but  the  respondent  did 
not  obtain  a  fiscal's  transfer  till  25th  March  19 LI.  The 
seizure  of  the  property  had  been    registered  on  19th  October 

1910.  Samsy  Lebbe  and  Kadija  Umma,  however,  had 
previously  mortgaged  the  share  in  question  to  one  Dawudu 
Marikai",  who  assigned  it  by  deed  dated  5th  June  1903,  and 
registered  on  24th  July,  1903,  to  Ahamado  Ismail.  Ahamado 
Ismail  assigned  the  mortgage  by  deed,  dated  29l:h  July  1910 
and  registered  on  25th  October  1910,  to  Uduma  Lebbe 
Marikar.  He  sued  the  debtors  on  the  mortgage  bond  on 
12th  November,  1910,  obtained  a  hypothecary  decree,  and 
the  land  was  sold  under  the  writ  on  7th  February  1911  to 
the  appellant,  who  obtained  a  fiscal's    transfer  on  i'lflth  June 

1911.  Kadija  Umma  was  dead  before  the  mortgage  decree 
was  entered.  In  the  present  action  the  respondent  sues  the 
appellant,  claiming  a  declaration  of  title  lo  the  share  above 
mentioned.     The  case  went  to  trial  on  three  issues  :  — 

(1.)     As  plaintiff's  seizure  was  registered  and  as  plaintiff 


34  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

sekan  Mar  kar  jj^j  no  notico  of  the  ixction  OD  the  mortgage  bond,  is  plain- 
Godage.     jjg  bouiid  by  the  hypothecary  decree  ? 

Wood-  (2  )     As  Kadija   was  dead  before  decree  entei'ed  (this  is 

Renton,  J.   admitted  so  far  as  regards  the   purposes  of  this   issue   only) 
is  the  decree  against  Samsy  Lebbe  also  bad  r 

(3.)  As  the  mortgage  bond  is  not  registered,  does  the 
mortgage  prevail  against  the  seizure. 

It  was  admitted  on  the  first  issue  that  the  address  of  the 
mortgagee  had  not  been  registered  under  §  644  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code.  The  learned  Commissioner  of 
Requests  held  that  whenever  the  plaintiflE  respondent 
(>btained  his  Fiscal's  transfer,  his  title  to  the  land  dated 
back  to  the  date  of  the  sale,  and  that  he  was  consequently 
entitled  to  notice  of  the  action  on  the  mortgage  bond  before 
imy  mortgage  decree  could  be  enforced  against  him. 
Admittedly  such  notice  was  not  given.  It  appears  to  me  that 
the  case  of  60  D.O.  (Inty)  Matara'^ — a  decision  of  two  Judges, 
which  is  therefore,'  binding  upon  me — is  an  authority 
against  the  view  of  the  law  on  which  the  learned  Com- 
missioner of  Requests  has  acted  in  regard  to  the  first  issue. 
It  \wis  held  in  that  case,  under  circumstances  practically 
identical  with  those  of  the  present  case,  that  the  true  date 
of  the  purchase  was  the  date  of  ;the  execution  of  the  Fiscal's 
conveyance,  and  that  §  289  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code 
had  not  the  efEect  of  making  the  purchaser's  title  on 
the  execution  of  that  conveyance  relate  back  to  the  date 
of  the  actual  sale,  for  the  purposes  of  §§  643  and  644  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code. 

The  respondent's  Coirnsel  argued  that  the  defendant 
appellant  was  not  in  a  position  to  claim  the  benefit  of  the 
provisions  of  those  sections  in  as  much  as  his  own  mortgage 
was  not  registered,  and  that  the  seizure  of  the  property  was 
;in  "  encumbrance"  within  the  meaning  of  the  sections  in 
question.  In  my  opinion,  a  seizure  cannot  be  brought 
under  the  words  "encumbrance"  in  section  643.  I  think 
1  S.  C.  Min:  32nd  June  1910. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  55 

thai  the  worfln  "  deed  of  "  which  precede    "  conveyance  ''  in  sekanjviarikar 
§  643,    must     be    taken   also    as   governing  the  subsequent      codage. 
words   ■•  mortgage,  lease,  or  other   encumbrance  "      This  is      Wood- 
made    clear   by   the  later    clause  in  the  same   section  that    Renton, J. 
they  have    duly  registered  "  their  deeds  ".  If  that  construc- 
tion of    §    643  is  right,  a   seizure  is   clearly   not  an    encum- 
brance    It  results   from  what   I  have  just  said   that  at    the 
time   the    mortgage   bond    was   sued    upon,   the    plaintiff 
respondent  had  no  title  to  the  property  in  suit  which  made 
it  incumbent  that  he  should   have  notice  of  that  action,  and 
sections  643  and  64i  of  the  Civil    Procedure  Code  do   not 
apply  to  the  present  case  at  all. 

The  Commissioner  of  Requests  rightly  held  on  the 
second  issue — and  the  soundness  of  his  judgment  on  this 
point  was  not  challenged  in  appeal — that  the  death  of 
Kadija  Umma  before  the  mortgage  decree  was  entered  did 
not  affect  its  validity  as  against  the  debtor  who  was  alive 
at  the  time,  and  on  the  third  issue— tor  the  reasons  stated 
above,  that  no  question  of  registration  of  addresses  under 
§  644  of  the  Civil  iProcedure  Code  arose.  Under  the 
ordinary  law  the  registration  of  the  assignments  of  -the 
mortgage  bond  relied  on  by  the  defendant  appellant  is 
sufficient  to  cure  the  omission  to  register  the  mortgage  bond 
itself :  Perk  v.  Perera  ^  and  Silva  v.  Gomis  ^ 

The  plaintiff  respondent's  action  must  be  dismissed 
with  the  costs  of  the  action  and  of  the  appeal. 

Proctor   for    appellant — C.  L.  Wichremaslngke. 
Pi'octor  for  Respondent — E.  A.  Wijesuriya. 


{1906)  10  N.  L.R.  3S  3  (1909)  1  Car.  L.  B.  93 


56  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

NAGAMMA   v.   THEMIS   SINNO   et  al. 

No.  Ifi679  P.  C.  Kalutara. 

Present :  Lascelles  C.  Ji  &  Middleton  Ji 

2Stli  September  1911. 

Juriadirtioii.  of  Police  Cuiirt — Ecidencc  disi'htsiiiff  graver  offence — 
L'oRvicHoii  for  h'xsi'r  ojfr/iee — Irrefftdarity  of  procedure — Discharge — 
§§  3S0  .$■  382  of  the  Feiml  Godc—§  193  Cr.  Pro.  Code. 

A  lesser  offence  cannot  be  chosen  for  trial  while  the  evidence  discloses 
a  graA'er  one. 

Where  a  person  is  accused  of  several  offences,  some  of  which  a 
Police  Magistrate  has  no  jurisdiction  to  try,  if  the  Police  Magistrate 
disbelieves  the  facts  constituting  an  offence  which  he  has  no  jurisdiction 
to  try,  he  should  enter  up  an  order  of  discharge  in  respect  of  such  offence 
before  he  proceeds  to  try  the  accused  for  the  offences  summarily 
triable  by  him. 

The  cases  cited  in  the  argument  of  counsel  considered  to  be  binding 
and  followed. 

Ill  this  case  the  complainant  filed  a  plaint  charging 
the  accused  with  robbery  ai.d  hurt,  oifences  punishable 
under  §§  380  and  311  of  the  Penal  Code.  On  being  ex- 
amined by  the  Police  Magistrate,  the  complainant  stated 
that  one  of  the  accused  carried  away  a  bag  containing  a  few 
bottles  of  arrack  which  she  was  carrying  on  her  head,  whilst 
th* other  struck  her,  and  snatched  away  a  gold  necklace  she 
was  wearing,  worth  about  PiS.  90.  The  Magistrate,  thereupon 
issued  warrants  against  the  accused  for  offences  under 
§§  380  and  382  of  the  Penal  Code.  When  the  accused 
appeared  in  Court,  the  Police  Magistrate  proceeded  to  try 
them  on  the  charge  under  §  3S0  which  was  triable  by  the 
Police  Court,  ignoring  the  charge  under  §  382  which  was 
not  triable  by  him  summarily,  and  found  the  accused  guilty 
and  sentenced  each  to  three  months  rigorous  imprisonment. 
They  appealed,  A  St.  V.  Jayewardene  for  them  contended 
that  the  proceedings  were  irregular  as  the  Magistrate  had 
tried  a  charge  under  §  380  while  a  gi-aver  charge  under  § 
382  was  still  pending,  and  Middleton  J.  before  whom  the 
appeal  was  heard  directed  it  to  be  argued  before  two  judges. 
The  case  came  on  for  argument  befoi-e  Lascelles  C.  J.  and 
Middleton   J.  on  the  28th  September  1911. J 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  57 

A  St.  V.  Jaijewanlem  for  the  accused  appellants.— The  ThfmTs"s1nno 
Police  Magistrate  was  acting  irregularly  in  proceeding  with 
the  charge  under  §  380  which  was  simple  robbery  while  a  Lascelles 
charge  under  §  Zil  which  was  robbery  with  hurt,  was  still 
pending.  Where  the  facts  disclose  an  offence  which  a 
Police  Magistrate  has  no  jurisdiction  to  try  summarily,  the 
Police  Magistrate  cannot  ignore  the  facts  constituting  the 
graver  offence  and  try  the  accused  for  a  minor  offence. 
Counsel  cited  Christian  v.  Pedris  Appu^  ;  Santiii  v.  Weera-  ; 
Wikramasuriija  v.  Appiisimjho-' ;  Siyadoris  v.  Guiunvardeiie^  ,• 
Siriiieris  v.  James^ ;  Baiya  v.  Nikulas''  ;  Silva  v.  Andris''  ; 
Ariapody  v.  Seenitamlty'*  ;  Abilinu  v.  Fernando^.  Some  of 
these  decisions  are  judgments  of  benches  of  two  judges  and 
are  binding  on  this  Court.  The  procedure  to  be  adopted  in 
cases  of  this  kind  is  laid  down  in  §  lS3  of  the  Criminal  Pro. 
Code  (see  also  Sinniah  Kangaiiy  v.  Sinniuli  Kanyany'^''). 
[Lasrelles  C.  J.  If  we  set  aside  this  judgment  and  send  the 
case  back  for  ti'ial  before  a  higher  Court,  the  accused  might 
receive  a  more  severe  .sentence.]  The  accused  desire  the 
ol)jection  to  be  tak'^n  and  would  take  their  ohauce  before  a 
judge  of  greatei  experience. 

Lascelles  0.  J.  This  is  an  appeal  on  a  very  technical 
ground  against  a  conviction  under  §  380  of  the  Penal  Code. 
It  is  an  appeal  of  a  type  that  has  come  before  this 
Court  over  and  over  again.  The  accused  were  charged 
under  §§  380  and  382  of  the  Penal  Code,  and  the  facts 
alleged  in  the  complaint,  if  true,  would  have  supported 
a  conviction  under  the  graver  of  those  charges,  The 
Magistrate,  however,  proceeded  under  §  380,  dealt  with 
the  case  summarily,  and  sentenced  the  accused  to  three 
months  rigorous  imprisonment.  It  is  now  argued,  that 
he  was  wrong  in  so  doing,  and  that  if  he  had  disbelieved 
the  facts   which  would   have  supported  a  conviction   under 

1.  (1893)  2  0.  L.  B.  197. 

2.  (1895)  1  N.  L.  B.  95. 
S.  (1895)  1  2^.  L.  B.  298. 
J,.  (1895)  2  N.  L.  B.  65. 
5.  {vf01)5  ^.  L.&.  03. 


6. 

(1906)    1  A.  C.  B.  49. 

7. 

(1907)  10  N.  L.  B.  203. 

8. 

a997)10N.L.R.2.05. 

0, 

(1907)  2  A.C.B.  xiii  (sup) 

10. 

(1906)  1  S.  C.  D.  39. 

58  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Nagainma  v.     ^ 
Themis  Sinno     ^ 

section  before  he  proceeded  to  tr}'  them  summarily  under 
iWiddleton  §  330.  We  thought  it  advisable  to  ask  the  Magistrate  to 
express  his  views  of  the  case  to  us,  and  lie  has  informed 
us  that  he  believed  the  charge  under  §  .''82  to  be  true, 
but  that  the  hurt  was  of  so  trivial  a  kind  that  it  did 
not  appear  worth  the  while  to  press  the  matter,  and  he 
recorded  that  by  an  nversight  he  failed  to  record  on  August 
i7th  that  the  charge  under  §  382  would  not  be  pi-oceeded 
with.  Now,  if  the  matter  had  been  res  inlnjra,  it  would 
have  taken  a  great  deal  to  have  persuaded  me,  that  it 
was  my  duty  to  set  the  conviction  aside,  and  to  order  the 
accused  to  be  tried  non-summarily  for  the  offence  under 
§  382,  but  the  authorities  are  too  strong  for  me.  There 
is  a  long  series  of  cases — some  of  them  are  decisions 
of  a  bench  of  two  judges — in  which  this  Court  in  simihu' 
cii'cuujstanccs  has  considered  that  it  was  their  duty  to  set 
tile  conviction  aside,  and  remit  the  case  for  a  non-summary 
trial.  I  feel  myself  obliged  to  follow  these  decisions.  1  do 
sii  with  considerable  reluctance,  especiallx  as  I  beliex'e 
appeals  of  this  character  are  not  al^\a^s  in  the  interests  of 
thi?  appellant,  and  sometimes  result  in  the  unfortunate 
appellants  receiving  a  more  severe  sentence  than  was  origin- 
ally awaj'tled.  1  would  set  the  conviction  aside,  and  remit 
the  case  for  non-summary  investigation. 

Middleton,  J. — I  entirely  agree.  I  referred  the  case 
to  two  judges  in  the  hope  that  some  means  might  be  found 
perhaps,  for  putting  a  position  of  this  kind  on  a  more 
I'easonable  footing.  Owing,  however,  to  the  weight  of 
authority  against  us,  I  agree  that  we  must  bow  to  it,  set  the 
cduviction  aside,  and  send  the  case  back  for  non-summary 
]iroceedings,  and  the  result  may  be  even  more  disastrous  to 
llie  unfortunate  aiipellauts  than  it  has  been  at  present. 

Cipnir.tioii  »ti  aside  and  the  catse  sent  tacit  fnr  non-summary 
frciecdin(/i\ , 

Proctor  for  appellant — li.  H.  Wijemaiuw. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL     CASES. 

ABEYARATNE     r.     PERERA 
No.  ;!229G  D.  C.   Cilomho. 

P rr.wif  .—Middieton  &  Wood  Renton,  J.  «J. 

;')lst  Jaimavy  1912. 

Sain  iif  wiirli/fii/ril  jimjiniy  hi)  iiurtioiieer  iindrr  nvtlmrity  nf  Court  — 
Apjilivaiiitn.  Inj  pvrrha-irr  fvv  dcUrr/'i/  of  piix-vtminn — IiiJit:rciif  jiiuiti'  Of  thr 
Coiif1—%%  :>fll,  ami  281  Vir'il  Provcilnrc  Coilr. 

Section  287  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Ciode  only  applii'S  to  salos  hy  the 
Fiscal  and  not  to  sales  held  by  an  auctioneer  under  the  authority  of  Court 
under  §  201  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  But  the  Court  has  inherent 
power  to  render  sales  of  immovable  property  made  under  its  orders 
effectual  and  to  place  the  purchasers  in  possession  of  such  property. 

In  this  cuse  the  original  plaintiffi  obtained  a  jndgmpiit 
against  the  defendant  on  a  mortgage  bond,  and  an  order  that 
the  sale  of  the  mortgaged  jiroperty  shall  be  conducted  by  a 
private  auctioneer  specially  authorised  under  §  201  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code  to  grant  conveyances  to  purchasers.  Subse- 
quently the  plaintiff  assigned  the  decree  in  his  favour  to  the 
substituted  plaintiffi  who  is  the  present  appellant.  At  the 
sale  the  appellant  with  the  sanction  of  the  Court  bid  for  and 
purchased  part  of  the  property  sold,  and  obtained  a  con- 
veyance from  the  auctioneer,  under  §  2.S7  of  the  Cfivil 
Procedure  Code.  The  appellant  then  moved  for  an  order 
directing  the  Fiscal  to  deliver  over  to  him  possession  of  the 
property  purchased.  The  property  was  alleged  by  the 
defendant  in  the  action  to  have  been  leased  by  him  on  a 
notarial  lease  prior  to  the  mortgage.  The  District  Judge 
held,  that  there  was  nothing  in  the  evidence  to  show  who 
was  in  possession  of  the  land— whether  the  defendant  or  his 
lessee — and  that,  in  any  case,  §  287  applies  only  to  sales  by 
the  Fiscal.  He  therefore  disallowed  the  plaintiff's  applicat- 
ion and  the  plaintiff  appealed . 

H.  A.  Jayewardem  for  the  plaintift'-appellant. — Section 
287  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  applies  to  all  sales  held 
in  execution  of  a  decree,  whether  such  sales  ai-e  held  by  the 
Fiscal  or  by  an  auctioneer  or  any  other  person  under  the 
autliority  of  Court.     Even  if  §  287   has  no   application,   the 


60  COUET  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

'^'"^  p'ere?!  ^'  District  Court  would  have  inherent  jurisdiction  to  do  every- 
thing  in  its  power  to   render  sales    mide  under    its    oi-ders 

Wood     effectual  and  to  place   the  purchasers    in  possession;    other- 
Renton  J.  r-  t-  -,         ^  „ 

wise  the  authority  of  sales  held  under  orders  or  Court  would 

be  greatly   diminished  (see   the   observations   of  the    I'rivj' 

Council  in  Kalamea  v.  Harperink^).  There  is  evidence  to  show 

that  the  defendant  is  in  possession  of  the  land  sold  and  it  is 

the  duty  of  the  Court  to  order  him  to  deliver  over  possession 

to  the  plaintiff. 

c.  a.  V. 

Wood  Renton  J. — (After  stating  the  facts  of  the  case 
contiiied: — The  question  raised  by  this  appeal  is  whether 
he  (i.e.  the  sub.?titatel  plaintiff)  is  entitled,  under  § 
287  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  ro  an  order  directing  the 
Fiscal  to  deliver  over  to  him  possession  of  the  property 
purchased.  The  defendant  was  examined,  at  the  instance 
of  the  appellant,  under  §  219  of  the  Code  of  Civil 
Procedure  in  the  District  Court,  and  gave  the  following 
evidence  : — 

"What  I  did  mortgage  was  a  cocoanut  and  cinnamon 
preperty — that  is  now  in  my  possession.  I  have  leased  it 
out  on  a  notarial  lease,  It  was  prior  in  date  to  the  mortgage 
but  I  did  not  mention  the  lease  to  the  mortgagee." 

The  learned  District  Judge  held  that  there  is  nothing, 
in  the  evidence  to  show  who  is  in  possession  of  the  property 
and  that,  in  any  case,  §  287  applies  only  to  Fiscal's 
sales.  He  accordingly  disallowed  the  appellant's  application 
under  §  287.  I  agree  with  the  learned  District  Judge 
that  §  287  is  concerned  only  with  Fiscal's  sales.  But 
I  venture  to  think  that  there  is  evidence  that  the  defendant, 
in  view  of  what  he  himself  said  on  the  subject  is  in  posses- 
sion of  the  property  in  question,  and  I  do  not  see  why  he 
should  not  be  noticed  by  the  District  Court  to  show  any 
cause  that  he  may  have,  against  his  being  ordered  to  deliver 
over  possession  to  the  appellant.     The  sale  has    taken  place 

1.     I.L.E.  SG  Cal :  .?&'!. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES.  61 

in  conformity  with   the   directions   contained   in   a    decree  *''<=5'aratne  v. 

''  Perera. 

which  is  certainly  binding  on  him,  and  the  Court  must  have 

inherent  power  to  reader  that  sale  effectual.  Middleton 

I  would  set  aside  the  order  under  appeal  and  send  the 
case  back  to  the  District  Court  for  the  purpose  of  the  def- 
endant being  noticed  to  show  cause,  if  he  has  any  to  show, 
why  the  appellant  should  not  be  put  in  possession  of  the 
property  purchased.  There  should  be  no  costs  of  this  appeal 
or  of  the  original  proceedings  in  the  District  Court  since 
the  appellant  was  not  entitled  to  the  remedy,  for  which  he 
applied,  under  §  287.  The  costs  of  the  subsequent 
proceedings  in  the  District  Court  should  be  in  the  discretion 
of  the  District  Judge, 

Middleton  J.— I  concur. 

■Si  I  aside  and  .trut  hark. 

Proctor  for  appelhxnt — A.  C.  AheyevMrdenc. 


THE  ATTORNEY  GENERAL  v.   CAPTAIN  SKINNER 

No.  31506  P.  C.  Colombo. 

Present :  Lascelies  C.  d.  &  Middleton  J. 

2nd  February  1912. 

Av rest  by  (I  Pciii-c  Officer  wit!/ mit  ir/irrrnif — Nnu-Cogukable  fJ/fein-i' — 
Accnsi'd  slmnld  lie  talten  foHhioith  to  the-  nearest  I'uliee  Mat/ixtnitr — 
Arrest  ■under  §  32  Cr.  Pro.  Code— Police  eaii-  take  buil—Cr.  Pro.  Code 
§§  3S  S-  33  (^S)  and  §  55  Police  Ordinuiiee  UJ  of  1865 

Where  a  peace  officer  who  was  also  a  Police  oliicer  arrested  without  a 
warrant  a  person  accused  of  a  non-cognizable  offence  and  i-eleased  him  on 
bail,  and  where  it  was  contended  that  the  arrest  was  made  under  §  33  (2) 
Cr.  Pro.  Code,  and  that  the  officer  larresting  being  a  Police  Officer  was 
empowered  to  take  bail  under  §  55  of  the  Police  Ordinance, 

Held,  that  the  Police  officer  had  no  power  to  take  bail. 

Held,  also  that  §  33  (2)  should  be  strictly  complied  with  and  the  accused 
person  should  have  been  taken  forthwith  to  tlie  nearest  Police  Magistrate. 

Sectinn  55  of  the  Police  Ordinance  would  apply  only  to  cases  where  a 
person  is  lawfully  taken  into  custody  by  a  Police  Officer  without  a  warrant, 
that  is  in  cases  detailed  in  §  32  of  the  Cr.  Pro.  Code. 


Skinner 


62  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

The  Attorney  p,,,.  Lti.^rrlh-s   C.  J.     It  is  urged   that   there  is  a  distinction    between 

General  v.  ^ 

Captain       tlio  two  sections  on  the  ground  thtit  §  :i:i  (Cr.  Pro.  Code)  deals  with  peace 

officers  and  §  ^>o   (Police  Ordinance)   reter.s  only   to  Police  Officers  of  the 

regular  Police.     But  ,n,s  the  term  "Peace  Officer"  in  the  Code  includes  all 

Police  Officers  I  do  not  see  that  anything  can  be  based  on  this  distinction. 

In  this  case  two  warrants  were  issued  by  the  Police 
^lagistrate  of  Colombo  for  the  arrest  of  one  Captain  Hari"ison 
against  whom  a  charge  of  cheating  was  preferred  before  the 
Police  Conrt  of  Colombo.  One  of  the  warrants  was  directed 
to  the  Superintendent  of  Police,  Colombo,  for  execution 
within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Police  Court  of  Colombo  and 
the  other  was  issued  to  the  Superintendent  of  Police,  Kandy, 
I'.efore  the  warrant  reached  Kandy  a  telegram  was  despatch- 
ed from  Colombo  to  the  Superintendent  of  Police,  Kandy, 
to  arrest  Captain  Harrison.  The  Superintendent  showed 
this  telegram  to  Inspector  Peiris  and  asked  him  to  arrest 
Captain  Harrison.  The  Inspector  accordingly  arrested 
Captain  Harrison  without  a  warrant,  but  released  him 
on  his  executing  a  security  bond  for  Rs.  3000  with 
Captain  Skinner  as  surety.  Captain  Harrison  thereafter 
left  the  Island,  and  at  the  instance  of  the  Attorney 
General  Captain  Skinner  was  noticei:  by  the  Police  Court  of 
Colombo  to  show  cause  why  his  security  bond  should  not 
be  forfeited.  The  Police  Magistrate  held  that  inasmuch  as 
Captain  Harrison  was  arrested  without  a  warrant  the  bail 
bond  for  his  release  was  invalid  and  he  discharged  the 
notice.     The  Attorney-General  appealed. 

Walter  Pereira  K.  G.  S-G.  (with  Akbar  C.  C.)  for  the 
appellant. — It  can  hardly  be  said  that  the  arrest  of  Captain 
Harrison  was  illegal.  The  Inspector  who  made  the  arrest 
was  informed  that  there  was  a  warrant  out  against  the 
accused  and  he  was  shown  the  telegi'am  sent  by  the  Superin- 
tendent of  Police,  Colombo,  to  the  Superintendent  of  Police, 
Kaniiy.  He  had  hence  sufficient  reason  to  believe  that  the 
accused  had  no  permanent  residence  in  the  Colony  and  was 
about  to  leave  it.  The  Inspector  was  therefore  justified  by 
§  33  (2)  of   the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  in  arresting  the 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  63 

accused.  The  arrest  being  legal  tlie  taking  of  the  bail  ))ond  ^G|n^i."°™°>' 
was  in  order.  [MidcUetoii  J.  §  3  5  (2)  provides  that  the  person  skmner 
arrested  should  lie  taken  forthwith  Ijefore  a  Police  Magistrate.] 
Yen,  that  is  the  general  rule,  §  33  (2)  says  that  the  Feacu 
Offixer  arresting-  should  do  that.  "Peace  Officer"  is  defined 
bj'  the  Code  to  include  a  Police  Officer  and  where  a  Police 
Officer  arresis  he  niay  exercise  the  further  ])ower  given  him 
bj  §  .5.')  of  the  Police  Ordinance.  That  section  has  not 
been  repealed  and  there  is  no  reason  to  suppose  that  a 
Police  Officer  cannot  still  act  under  it.  Section  ')•'»  provides 
that  every  person  taken  into  custody  by  a  Police  Officer 
without  a  warrant  should  be  delivered  into  the  custody  of 
the  officer  in  charge  of  the  Police  Station  who  may  admit 
him  to  bail.  There  is  no  reason  to  limit  the  section  to 
arrests  in  the  case  of  cognizable  offences  only,  as  may  be 
contended  on  the  other  side.  The  section  speaks  of  arrest 
without  a  warrant  and  so  long  as  the  arrest  is  legal  the 
Police  may  act  under  the  section.  \^LasreUe^  C.  J.  §  33  (2) 
of  the  Code  and  §  "»5  of  the  Police  Ordinance  do  not  appear 
to  be  consistent  with  each  other.]  I  think  they  can  well 
stand  together.  While  large  portions  of  the  Police  Ordinance 
have  been  reiiealed  §  55  has  been  left  untouched,  the  inteii- 
tion  clearly  is  to  continue  its  operation.  Section  33  (2) 
speaks  of  peace  officers  generally  but  when  the  peace  officer 
is  a  police  officer  he  has  the  additional  power  under  the 
Police  Ordinance.  [_LasceUes  G.  J.  The  provision  of  the 
old  Code  empowering  Police  officers  to  take  bail  has  been 
removed  by  the  new  Code.]  Yes,  that  may  well  have  been, 
because  that  provision  already  existed  in  the  Police  Ordi- 
nance and  it  was  no  use  giving  the  same  power  under  the 
Code  as  well.  Section  55  of  the  Police  Ordinance  has  as 
much  effect  as  any  unrepealed  section  of  that  Ordinance. 
In  the  case  of  §  ■'>9  it  has  been  expressly  held  that  it  is  not 
deemed  to  have  been  superseded  by  Chapters  IV  &  V  of  the 
Criminal  Procedure  Code.  {Cornells  v.  Coolcson.y  The 
warrant  was  directed  to  the  Police  and  it  made  no  difference 

1     (1902)  6  N.L.E.  1,0 


64         COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

^Gerferari?  wliicli  Police  officer  arrested.     It  has  been    held  that  the 

skin'iiCT      Police  have  power  to  perform   their  duties    over  the  whole 

Isiund  {Gresmj  /'.  Pema)^      [Lf/ncel/cs  C.  J.     The  head-note  is 

LasceUes  niisleading  ;  that  case  upplies  only  to  cognizable  offences.] 
Y-s  ;  that  case  dealt  with  a  cognizable  offence,  but  the 
principle  underlying  the  decision  is  that  the  duty  of  a 
Police  Constable,  whatever  that  duty  may  be,  may  be 
l)erfurnaed  anywhere. 

Elliott  for  the  respondent  was  not  called  upon. 
Lascelles  0.  J. — This  is  an  appeal  from  an  order  of 
the  Police  Magisti-ate  of  Colombo  refusing  to  forfeit  the  bail 
bond  marked  X  3.  The  material  facts  of  the  case,  shortly 
stated,  are  as  follows  : — Two  warrants  were  issued  by  the 
Police  Court  of  Colombo  for  the  arrest  of  a  Captain 
Harrison.  One  of  these  was  issued  to  the  Superintendent  of 
Police,  Colombo,  for  the  arrest  of  the  offender  within  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Police  Court  of  Colombo,  and  the  other 
was  issued  to  the  Superintendent  of  Police,  Kaudy.  The 
warrants  were  both  issued  on  the  23rd  of  December,  1911, 
Captain  Harrison  was  arrested  by  the  Police  in  Ivandy,  and 
it  is  admitted  that  the  Oilicer  who  arrested  him  hud  not 
eiAer  of  the  warrants  issued  in  Colombo,  or  a  copy  of  either 
of  them.  The  arrest  was  in  effect  an  arrest  without  a 
warrant  at  all.  The  Officer  who  arrested  Captain  Harrison 
released  him  on  the  security  bond  X  3  being  executed 
with  Captain  Skinner  as  surety.  The  Police  Magistrate  has 
held  that,  in  as  much  as  Captain  Harrison  was  arrested 
without  a  warrant,  the  bail  bond  for  his  release  was  invalid, 
and  of  no  effect.  The  question  seems  to  turn  upon  the 
construction  of  §  33  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code,  and 
§  55  of  Ordinance  No.  16  of  1865— the  Police  Ordinance. 
Under  the  former  section  it  is  provided,  by  sub-section  (2), 
that,  if  a  Police  Officer  has  reason  to  believe  that  a  person 
who  is  accused  of  committing  a  non-cognizable  ofEeuce  is 
about  to  leave  the  Colony,  he  may  be  arrested  by  the  Police 
Officer,    and  thereupon   he    may  be  taken   forthwith  to  the 

1    {1906)  0  N.L.E.ne 


COUUT    OF     A.PPEAL    CASES,  65 

nearest  Police    Magistrate    wiio  rnav  either  recinire    him  b>   '"'"  A'tfney 

execute  a  bond  with  or  without  a  surety,  or  may  <jrder  him      skmne" 

lo  be  detained  in  custody  until    trial.    Now,  it'  the  Police  ot 

Kandy  hail  acted  under  sub-section  (2)  of  section  ','>'.]    of    the    Lascelles. 

Uriininal  Procedure  Code,    their   action    would    liave    been 

Ijeyond   question.    Captain  Harrison,    on  arrest  would  have 

Ijeen    immediately    taken   before    the    Police  Magistrate   at 

Kandy,  who,  in  all  probability  woidd  have  admitted   him  to 

bail,  and  the  surety   bond  would  have  beeu  a  perl'ecily  i^'ond 

and  enforceable  security.  But  the  Police  have  not  conformed 

to  the   procedure  prescribed  by  this  sub-section.    If  Captain 

Harrison  was  in  fact  arrested  under   the   provisions   of  this 

sub-section,  which    provides   for   cases    of   emergency   then 

the  Police  ought  to  ha\e  strictly  complied  with  tiie  pru\  iwions 

of   this    sub-section.  It  is    contended    that    the    arrest,    and 

therefore    the  bail    bond,    is    valid  under  §  55  of  tlic  Police 

Ordinance.  But   the   section  seems   to   me  to  apply  oidy  to 

cases   where   a   person    is    lawfullj-  taken  into  custody  by  a 

Police  Officer  without  a  warrant.  These  cases  are  detailed  in 

§  .'i'i  of  the  Criminal  Procetlure  Code,  and  it  seems  to  me  that 


§  55  must  apply  to  cases  of  this  character.  Otherwise  there 
would  be  a  serious  discrepancy  between  §  55  and  )ji5o  nf  the 
Criminal  Procedure  Code.  It  is  uryed  that  there  is  a  distinction 
between  thi;  two  sections  on  the  ground  that  §  ijl}  deals  with 
peace  officers,  and  §  55  refei'S  only  to  Police,  Officers  nt  the 
regular  Police,  But  as  the  term  peace  officer  in  the  Cotle 
includes  all  police  officers  I  do  not  see  that  anything  can 
he  based  on  this  distinction.  The  di'cision  of  the  Police 
Magisti'ate  is,  in  my  opinion  correct  and  should  be  affirmed. 

MiddletOn  J.— 1  agree. 

Appiial  dkiiilssed. 

Proctors  for  Kespoudent — Julius  and  Creasy. 


66  COURT    OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

EMIS  /.'.  SANGO. 
Xo.  6429,    C.  R.  Galle. 

Freseiii :    Lascelies,   C.  J> 

3ra  August   1911. 

Fivserijjtioii, — Ac/nvmcnf  in  writimj  tii  re-transfer  a  hind  within  ten 
ytarx  on  rc-paymcnt  ofpurcliam  mnnf>/—Whciitfndcr  ran  h  made — Action, 
for  sperific  performance— Date  of  accrual  of  cmi.se  of  action— Prcxcriptimi 
Ord:  No.'2JoflS7].  §  7. 

A  cause  of  actioa  to  compel  sijecilic  performance  oi' an  agreement  in 
writing  to  re-transfer  a  land  on  payment  of  a  certain  sum  of  money  within 
a  certain  period  would  accrue  as  from  the  (late  of  the  refusal  to  accept  m 
valid  let!al  tender  of  tht-  iiunioy  and  would  be  prescribed  in  six  years  Ironi 
the  date  of  such  refusal. 

Such  tender  'an  be  made  at  any  time  before  the  expiration  of  the  fixed 
period. 

At>  the  agreement  is  in  writing  the  term  of  prescription  is  that  definoi 
in  §  7  of  Or  d.  22  of  1S71. 

This  was  an  uctidu  to  cuinpel  specific  perfoiniuice  of  an 
agreement  in  writing  entered  into  between.  Gunetti  Kaclio 
of  tlie  tirst  pari  and  Ranaliiiige  Neina  of  the  second  part  ou 
the 'ilst  day  of  .lul\ .  1899.  The  phdntilt's  are  the  heirs  of 
tliK  ^aid  Neina  and  the  defendants  are  tlje  administrators  of 
Llie  Ksiate  of  the  said  Kaclio.  The  material  part  of  the 
agreement  was  as  follows  : — "Whereas  the  party  of  the  first 
■■  part  by  deed  No.  I(il82  purchased  for  the  sum  of  Rs.  200 
••  the  field     ....  .     And  it  was  agreed  that   in  the 

••  rvi'iir  of  the  payment  to  the  p.irty  of  the  hrst  part  Gunetti 
"  Kacho  or  Iter  heirs  etc.  by  the  party  of  tlie  second  part 
'•  Ranahiuge  Nidna  or  her  heirs  etc.  at  any  time  within  ten 
••  full  years  from  the  ilate  hereof  the  said  sum  of  Rs.  200, 
'"  shall  for  the  said  sum  of  Rs.  2' 10,  convey  the  said  rights 
■•  b.\  a  notarially  executed  deed,"  The  plaintiffs  alleged 
I  hat  early  in  the  year  1907  the  &aid  Neina  offered  Rs.  200. 
to  the  heirs  of  Kacho  (Kacho  then  being  dead)  and  asked 
for  a  reconveyance  of  i  he  2)ropei*ty,  which  they  failed  to  give. 
Shortly  alli'twai'ds  Neina  died  leaving  the  plaintift's  as  his 
heirs.  In  the  meanwhile  the  present  defendants  were 
iippointcil  ;idmiuistrati>i-s  of  the  ertiite   of  Kacho.   Afti'V  such 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  (]"• 

appointmpnt  viz.  in  ^farcli  1910,  the  plaintiiTs  offorpcl  to  thp  Emisv.  Sangj 
(lefendsnts  Rs.  200.  and  asked  for  a  reconveyance  of  the 
property  which  they  refused  to  give.  Thereupon  the  plain- 
tiffs on  rhe  2nd  November  1910  deposited  the  said  amount 
in  Court  and  brought  the  present  action.  On  objection  talcen 
by  the  defendants,  the  Commissioner  of  Reqnosrs,  Gallc  (B. 
ContantineEsq;)  dismissed  the  plaintiffs'  action,  holding' that 
the  right  to  sue  for  a  re-transi:er  was  a  cause  of  action  which 
arose  at  once  on  the  execution  of  the  agreement,  though 
subject  to  a  condition,  and  that,  therefore,  the  action  should 
have  been  brought  within  10  years.  He  also  held,  inciden- 
tally, that,  even  construing  the  agreement  not  as  a  definite 
agreement  but  as  a  declaration  of  a  right,  the  action  would 
be  prescribed  under  §  11  as  three  years  had  elapsed  sincr 
the  refusal  of  the  defendants  to  carry  out  tho   contract. 

The  plaintiffs  appealed. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardme  for  the  plaiuLiffs-appellants, — 
According  to  the  agreement  the  vendor  had  full  ten  years 
within  which  to  offer  the  money  for  the  reconveyance,  and 
six  years  from  the  date  of  the  refusal  to  accept,  to  institute 
an  action  to  compel  specific  performance.  The  refusal  to 
accept  the  money  and  execute  a  conveyance  would  be  a 
breach  of  a  written  agreement  and  the  term  of  prescription 
would  be  six  years  under  §  7  of  Ord  :  22  of  1871.  The 
Supreme  Court  has  held  that  rent  reserved  under  a  lease  in 
writing  could  be  recovered  within  six  years  (De  Silva  v.  Bon 
Lnuh  ').  Counsel  also  referrod  to  Anaell  on  Limitation f<  p/i. 
104,  105,  and  106  and  to  Darhij  and  Bosanquel's  Lair  of  Limitat- 
ionK  pp.  18,  ]'■)  and  SO. 

Ovnetillehe  for  the  defendants-respondents. — The  plain- 
tiffs ought  to  have  offered  the  money  and  brought  the  action 
within  the  10  years  stipulated  in  the  deed  of  agreement. 
[Ldsrelles  C.  J.  Had  not  the  plaintiff  time  till  12  p.m.  of  the 
last  day  of  the  ten  years  to  offer  the  money  ?]  yes,  that 
would  lie  !*n.     [Lascelles  C.  .J.     Suppose  they  did  so   and  the 

7     aSSl)  4  S.  C.  C.  89. 


68  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Emisv.  Siingo  ofl-,,!-  was  refused. j     Then     the    action    shonhl    have   lieen 

,,        bi-cnffbt  within  three  years  of  the  refusal  when  the  cause  of 
Lascelles 

C.  J.        aeiion   arose.     This   not    liaving:    been    ilonr.  ilie   action    is 

presoribed  under  §  11  of  rhe  Ordinance.  [Lnsccllr'f:,  C.J.  Diw^t 
not  §  7  apply  to  a  case  of  this  kind  r]  Xo,  as  expi'(^ss  provi- 
sion is  not  made  for  a  case  of  this  kind.  §  11  of  the  Ordinance 
would  apply, 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  case  tuDison  the  construction 
of  the  docuuient  P  ";  the  material  part  of  which  is  as 
follows: — "And  it  is  agreed  that  in  the  event  of  the  pay- 
"  ment  to  the  party  of  the  1st  part,  Gunetti  Kacho,  or  her 
'•  heiis  etc.  by  the  party  of  the  second  part,  Ranahinge  Neina 
'■  or  her  heirs  etc.  at  any  time  witJiin  10  full  years  from  the 
■'  date  hereof  rhe  said  sum  of  Rs.  200 — shall  for  the  said  sum 
4'  of  Rs.  300  convey  the  said  rights  by  a  notarially  executed 
"  deed."  Now  it  is  ai'gued,  and  it  has  been  held  by  the 
Commissioner  of  Requests,  that  unless  the  sum  of  Rs.  200 
was  paid  within  the  term  of  10  years,  the  plaintifH-S  had  nn 
I'ights  under  the  agreent  ent.  I  cannot  agree  with  this  view. 
Tt  seems  clear  to  me  that  the  intention  of  the  deed  was  that 
Ranahinge  Neina  should  be  allowed  to  pay  the  sum  of 
Rs.  200  at  any  time  before  the  expiration  of  ten  j-ears.  If 
lie  did  all  that  he  could  to  pay  that  sum  ;  tliat  is,  if  he  made 
a  valid  legal  tender  of  the  amount,  and  the  defendants  re- 
fused to  accept  the  offer,  then  a  cause  of  action  would  have 
accrued  to  the  plaintiffs  as  from  the  date  of  the  refusal  of 
his  ofl!er.  Inasmnch  as  the  agreement  is  in  writing,  it  is 
clear  that  the  term  of  prescription  is  that  defined  in  §  7  of 
Ordinance  No.  22  of  1871,  namely  six  years.  If,  therefore, 
tbe  plaintiffs  are  able  to  establish  that  in  1907  Ranahinge 
Neina  made  a  valid  legal  tender  of  the  sum  of  Rs.  200  and 
that  offer  was  refused  by  the  heirs  of  Gniietti  Kacho,  a  cause 
of  action  accrued  as  from  that  date  to  the  plaintiffs  and  the 
period  of  prescription  has  not  yet  expired. 

The  judgment  of  the  Commissioner  of  Requests  must 
be  set  aside,   and  the  case  remitted  to  him  in  order  to  try 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES,  69 

rlif  issue  whether  a  \pgii\  ipiiflpr  nt'  PiP.  200  was  madf  ari'l 
rel'iisi'd  in  1907.  as  allpfjcd  in  ]iaraoi'ai)h  G  nl'  thf  plaint.  If 
ihis  is  csiahlisheil,  theii  ilic  claim  "f  tlio  i)laintiff'  is  nor 
pivseribeil. 

The  appellant  is  entitled  to  the  eosis  tif  tlie  appeal. 

Cciup  RpmitM. 

Proctor  for  Appellant — D.  G.  (innnciviirihiU'. 
Pi'oetoi'  for  Respondent — A.  /hfix  Ahei/xiiiftJiP. 


THE  ATTORNEY-fiENERAL  /•.  ROMEL  FERNANDO. 
No.  289:>  D.C.  ((Jr:)  N.-Muib,,. 
Premit  :  Middleton  d. 
29th  January  1912. 

I'hri/Uiig  Ijy  j)i'nniiinfiuM  —  Fr/ivdvlnifl!/—Tnhiit  to  tlefrimd — Pi'm^  uf 
ihimiuje  iirhiinn  to  tin-  jinrti/  drcrired  iim'xxin-!/  —  Text  n]  fi-aiidvU-iit 
i-hiirnrtrr  uf  dim'jdiuii  — ['rmil  Cudi-  §§  :^3..J'.K'i./,0:.'  ,i,id  490. 

Where  Hie  acciisecl.  in  order  to  rai>-e  ;i  sum  uf  raonej'  from  a  ('hetty  on 
the  mo)'t!;iisu  of  a  land  belonsina'  tn  his  niisliess.  brought,  with  his 
mistress'  consent,  another  woman  before  the  Xotary  to  personate  her  and 
oxeente  the  deed  in  iilace  of  her  and  pretended  both  to  the  Notary  and 
the  Chetty  that  that  woman  was  hisjiiistress, 

lii-ld,  that  the  .accused  was  not  uuilty  of  :ittempting  to  cheat  the 
Notary  as  there  was  no  evidence  given  by  the  Notary  that  such  personat- 
iou  would  aflfect  his  reputation,  but  was  guilty  of  attempting  to  cheat  the 
Chetty, 

'  A  practically  conclusive  test  as  to  the  fraudulent  character  of  a 
"  deception  tor  criminal  purposes  is  ttis  : — Did  the  author  of  the  deceit 
"derive  any  advantage  from  it  wliich  could  not  have  been  had  if  the  truth 
"  had  been  known  .'  If  so,  it  is  hardly  possible  th;it  the  advantage  should  not 
'•  have  had  an  equivalent  in  loss  or  risk  of  loss  to  some  one  else  ;  and  if  so. 
"  there  was  fraud." 

In  this  case  the  accused  came  to  Negombo,  at  the 
request  of  his  mistress  Ligoua  with  a  tith'  deed  belonging 
to  her  in  his  pocket,  to  raise  a  sum  ot   money  on  it  to  enable 


10  COT^HT     OF     APPEAL     CASKS. 

The  Attorney   hor  to  i)av  cpi'taiii  <lpbt-s  iiicii I'ved  bv  hpv.  Ligoiia   o.cmXd   not 

General  v.  '     • 

R""""'       accomiiauy  him  us   her   chilib-eii    were  ill.     lie    weTit  to  a 

Fernando  ^        '' 

Chetty  wlio  agi-eed  to  lead  the  sum  of  money  provided  both 
the  accused  and  his  mistress  jointly  and  severally  bound 
themselves  by  the  mortgage  bond,  The  accused  said  his 
mistress  could  be  produced  at  once  to  sign  the  deed  and  so 
he  and  the  Chetty  repaired  to  a  Notary  and  gave  him  instruct- 
ions as  to  the  drawing  up  of  the  deed  and  later  in  the  same 
day.  the  accused  took  a  girl  Isa  to  the  Notary's  office  to  sign 
the  deed  as  as  his  mistress  Ligona,  but  when  the  deed  was 
about  to  be  signed,  it  was  discovered  that  the  woman  present 
was  not  Ligona  but  was  personating  her.  The  accused  was 
thereupon  charged  on  two  counts  with  attempting  to  cheat 
by  personation  the  Notary  and  the  Chetty,  The  District 
Judge  of  Negombo  (John  Scott  Esq  :)  acquitted  the  accused 
on  both  counts,  holding  on  the  1st  count,  that  although  the 
accused  did  liy  personation  and  deception  intentionally 
attempt  to  induce  the  Notary  to  do  an  act  which  he  would 
not  have  orherwise  done,  such  act  was  not  at  all  likely  to 
caune  damage  or  harm  to  the  Notary  as  mentioned  in  the 
definition  of  cheating  ;  and  on  the  2nd  count,  that  although 
the  accused  attempted  by  deception  to  induce  the  Chetty  to 
lend  him  Rs.  125.  it  was  not  done  with  intent  to  defraud 
the  Chetty  because  he  acted  on   the    instructions   of  Ligona. 

The  Attorney-General    appealed   against    the  acquittal. 

Walter  Fpreira  K.  C.  ,S'.-».  for  the  appellant.— The  Notary 
is  a  professional  man  and  would  certainly  have  suffered 
both  in  mind  and  reputation.  The  Eegistrar-General,  in 
particular,  would  have  looked  upon  him  with  a  considerable 
amount  of  suspicion,  if  not  as  a  conniver  at  false  deeds.  The 
acquittal  on  the  1st  count  should  therefore  be  reversed.  In 
dealing  with  the  Snd  count  the  learned  District  Judge  has 
gone  wrong  in  the  interpretation  of  the  term  "  with  intent 
to  defraud,"  which  occurs  in  the  definition  of  the  word 
"frandulently."  Sir  James  Stephen  writes  •  "where  the 
words  'with  intent  to  defraud  '  occur  in  the  definition  of  a 
crime  two  elements    at  least  are  essential  :  namely  (_1)  deceit 


COURT    OF     APPEAL     CASES.  71 

or  au  intention  to  deceive  (2)  eitlier  actual   iniurv  or   a    rinlc   '""-  Atiora*;' 

^  J       .  General  v, 

of  possible  injury  by  means  of  that  deceit  or   deception."'   A         Romei 

^  *'       "^       '^  ^  ^erpando 

practically  conclusive  test  as  to  the  fraitdulent  character  of 
;i  deception  for  criminal  purposes  is  this  :  Did  the  author  '^<*<'leton 
of  the  deceit  derive  any  advantage  from  it  which  he  could 
not  ha\  e  if  the  truth  had  been  known  ?  If  so,  it  is  hardly 
possible  that  that  advantage  should  not  have  had  an  eqi- 
valent  in  loss  or  risk  of  loss  to  some  one  else  ;  and  if  so  there 
was  fraud  (see  the  judgment  of  Bannerji  J.  in  Queen  c. 
Muhamed  Saeed  Khan^  where  he  cites  a  passge  from  Sir 
Jamen  Fils  James  .Ste/>hen's  Hidorij  of  the  Criminal  Lair  of  England 
Vol  :  i  p.  Ii21).  The  facts  show  that  the  accused  would 
have  gained  an  advantage  because  the  Chetty  says  he 
would  not  have  consented  to  lend  the  money  if  he 
knew  that  Isa  was  personating  Ligona.  It  is  also  clear  that 
the  Chetty  would  have  ran  the  risk  of  loss  because  there  was 
nothing  to  prevent  Ligona  from  impugning  the  deed  at  any 
moment.  The  acquittal  on  the  2nd  count  also  should  be 
reversed. 

E.  G.  P-  Jayetileke  for  the  accused-re.spondent.  — The 
ijuestion  whether  the  act  of  the  accused  was  likely  to  cause 
the  Notarj'  harm  in  mind  or  reputation  is  not  a  matter  of 
speculation  but  of  positive  evidence  (see  Re.r  v.  Baslia)i  -). 
There  is  no  evidence  on  record  to  that  effect.  It  was  held 
in  the  same  case  that  such  a  question  was  one  for  the  jur}- 
and  it  is  submitted  that  the  finding  of  the  learned  District 
Judge  on  that  point  is  final.  Besides,  the  possibility  of  the 
Notary  suffering  in  reputation  and  losing  his  accustomed 
patronage  and  fees  in  future,  is  too  remote  to  be  in  the 
<;oiitemplation  of  §  398  of  the  Penal  Code  (see  Queen  Empress 
V.  Mojtij  3).  According  to  the  authorities  cited  by  the  learned 
Solicitor-General  the  test  whether  a  person  acted  fraudnlen- 
ly  lies  in  the  intention  of  that  party.  It  has  been  found  by 
the  learned  District    Judge    as   a  question    of  fact   that    the 

i.l.L.  B.  n  All:  lis.-  '- 

I  ~  1  "^0.?)  2  Bal :  bsat  p.  100.       '  o.  /.'  L.  H-.  1  r-Cal ;   iSO'^. 


72  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

'^GenolTv^''  accused  dill  iiot  intend  to  defraud  the  Ohetty,  and  it  is  sub- 
Fmundo  mitfed  that  this  finding  is  conclusive.  The  accused  would 
lutve  gained  no  advantage  wliatever,  jDei'Sonally,  by  this 
j_*  transaction  :  it  was  his  mistress  who  would  have  been 
benefited.  He  being  a  party  to  the  deed  would  have  been 
at  a  great  disadvantage  because  the  Clietty  could  have  pro- 
cooded  against  him  in  case  there  was  a  deficiencj-.  The 
Chetty  would  not  have  Ijeen  exposed  to  any  risk  of  loss 
because  it  was  not  open  to  Jjigona  to  impugn  the  deed,  she 
having  authorised  the  accused  to  act  in  the  manner  he  did. 
The  presumjitiou  must  be  in  favour  of  honesty  and  the 
Court  cannot  be  called  upon  to  act  on  the  supposition  that 
she  would  act  dishonestly.  In  England  it  has  been  held 
that  a  person  could  lie  authorised  to  sign  another's  name 
(see  Fraiici'.  v.  Datioii^  :  The  Queen  r.  Justices  of  Kent  -. )  ;  if 
the  presumption  is  in  favour  of  dishonesty,  the  persons  who 
signeti  in  these  particular  cases  should  have  been  indicted 
for  forgery.  A  mere  lie  uttered  by  the  accused  to  the 
Chetty  that  Isa  was  his  mistress  is  not  fraudulent  and 
therefore  does  not  render  him  guilty  of  an  attempt  to 
cheat  (see  Ei)iiwnir  r.  Buburam  llai  '')■  The  accused  brought 
Isa  to  d(i  an  act  which  Ligona  would  ha\'e  herself  done 
but  for  tin'  illness  of  her  children  and  this  proves  coii- 
chisi\oly  that  his  cotiduet  w<is  not  fraudulent  (^see  A';«;y/-e«.s' 
V.  Loulkij  Bcirn  ■*  ).  Counsel  also  referred  to  Emperur  v. 
Kalamiajii  •':  Mcerd  Sail/ 1' v.  Pimh'  SiU'it'' :  Goui-'s  Peaiil  Law 
of  India  Vol:  2  p.  lOOS. 

Walter  Feieira  K.  C,  S,.-G.in  reply,  r.  a.  r. 

Middleton  J- — In  this  case  the  accused  was  tried  on 
two  counts  in  one  indictment  charging  him  with  attempt- 
ing to  cheat  one  H.  E.  de  Silva  a  notary  public  l)y  persona- 
tion by  falsely  producing  one  Isa  before  him  as  one  Ligona 
and  endeavouring  to    get    a  deed    of   mortgage    executed  by 

1.  L.  B.  2  Q.  B.   D.  SIO        4.   11'  W.B.  (Crifn:)24- 

2.  L.  B.  S  Q.  B.  305  -->.     I.  L.  B.  n  Mad  ■  $0. 

5.    I.  L.  B.  5.:  Cal:   r,'j.       6.    (1^00)  4.  N.  L.  B.  2::^ 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  73 


the  said  notary    in    favour  of   Aruniugam    Chetts",   thereby   ''"'j?^n\'^°y",f>' 
committing     an    offience    punishable    uudei'    §§    402    and        f'*""!,';!,,,, 
490  of  the  Penal  Code  ;    (2)   with   atteraptinir    to   cheat    the 
said  Arumugam  Chatty  by  personation  by  falsely  producing   Middleton 
the  said  Isa  as  the  said  Ligona   and   endeavouring  to    i,'et   a 
deed  of  mortgage  executed  by  the  said  H.  E.  de  SiWa  notary' 
public  in  favour  of  the  said  Arumugam  Ghetty,    dn    offence 
punishable  under  §§  402  and  490  of  the  Penal  Ct)de. 

The  District  Judge  held  that  although  the  attempted 
intentional  inducement  of  the  Notary  of  the  accused  by 
means  of  personation  or  deception  to  do  an  act  which  he 
would  not  have  otherwise  done  is  clearly  established  that 
act  was  not  likely  to  cause  damage  or  harm  to  the  Notary  as 
mentioned  in  the  definition  of  cheating  in  §  39  of  the 
Ceylon  Penal  Code  ;  (2)  that  although  the  accused  undoubt- 
edly attempted  by  deception  to  induce  the  Chetty  to  lend 
him  Rs.  125,  he  did  not  do  so  with  fraudulent  or  dis- 
honest intention. 

The  facts  were  practically  admitted  by  the  defence, 
and  the  District  Judge  found  that  the  accused  intentionally 
substituted  Isa  for  Ligona  and  attempte<l  by  this  deception 
to  induce  the  Chetty  to  lend  him  Rs.  12.5  although  he  did 
not  intend  to  defraud  the  Chetty  ;  while  the  woman  stiiteil 
she  consented  to  being  personated  and  the  Chetty  averred 
that  he  refused  to  lend  the  money  without  the  signature  of 
the  accused's  wife  Ligona. 

The  questions  mi  both  counts  under  §  398  are  whether 
the  act  of  personation  were  fi'uudulent  or  <lishuui'St  deceit 
wiiicli  would  cause  oi' lie  likely  to  cause  damugc  or  luirni  to 
the  Notary  or  the  Chetty  in  body,  mind.  rei>utation  in- 
property. 

The  first  question  is.  was  the  deceit  fraudulent,  putting 
aside  the  element  of  dishonesty  as  defined  in  the  code  ?  In 
Queen  v.  Muhamel  Saeed  Khan,  ^  relied  on  by   the    Solicitor 

1.    I.L.U.  ii  All.  llA. 


74  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


^GeiferaiT''  Greiieral,   Bannerji  J.  quotes  Ifrom    Sir    James    Fitz    James 

FemSido      Stephen's  Historjr  of  the  Criminal  Law  of  England   Vol  :  II 

p.  121,    where  it  says  that  "A   practically    conclusive   test 

Middleton  a  ^g  ^^  j-j^g  fraudulent  character  of  *&  deception  for  criminal 
"purposes  is  this  :— Did  the  author  of  the  deceit  derive  any 
*•  advantage  from  it  which  could  not  have  been  had  if  the 
"  trnth  had  been  known  ?  If  so,  it  is  hardly  possible  that  the 
"  advantage  should  not  have  had  an  equivalent  in  loss  or 
■'risk  of  loss  to  some  one  else,  and  if  so  there  was  a   fi'aud." 

The  cases  reported  in  28-Madras  90  ;  4N.  L.  K.  229; 
L.  R.  8  Q.  B.  ;305,a07  :  L.  R.  2  Q.  B.  D.  210  ;  U  I.  W.  R.  (Cri- 
minal) 2-i ;  32  Calcutta  775  ;  '.'.  Gour  1093  ;  2  Bal :  100 
and  17  Calcutta  606  were  relied  upon  in  the  interests  of 
the  accused.  It  seems  to  me  however  as  the  Solicitor-General 
argued  that  most  of  these  cases  are  hardly  in  point. 

In  the  case  relied  on  in  32  Calcutta  775,  the  collector 
who  handed  over  the  money  there  was  not  harmed  in  body 
mind  or  reputation  and  the  person  who  received  it  was 
authorised  to  do  so. 

Again  in  11  I,  W.  R.  24  it  was  held  there  was  nothing 
to  show  an  intention  to  defrand  or  injure  anyone  by  obtain- 
ing the  registration  of  a  deed  in  the  right  name  by  the 
personation  of  the  vendor  by  anotlier  woman. 

In  17  Calcutta  606,  the  loss-  or  damage  likely  t.)  be 
caused  to  the  Registrar  of  Mohammedan  Divorces  by  the 
personation  of  one  person  by  another  to  him  was  held  to 
be  too  remote  to  constitute  a  case  of  cheating  according  to 
the  criminal  law. 

As  regards  the  first  count  on  the  indictment  the  count 
was  tlie  same  asiu  7iV,/;  r,  i)V«,s'//V^/,  «/  al -^  and  there  I  held  it 
was  a  question  for  the  jury  whether  it  waH  likely  or  |)ossible 
that  the  Notary  would    be   injured  in  mind    or    reputation. 

There  is  no  evidence,  however,  given  by  the  Notary 
here  to  prove  that  such  a  personation  would  affect  his  reputa- 
i'.    J   Bal:    OJ. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES.  75 

tion,  although  I  have  very  little  doubt   that    it   iiiieht    have  The  Attorney 

'^  *  General  v. 

done  so  with  the  Registrar-General,  if  not  with  the  respectable      perXnlio 
public,  if  the  personation  had  succeeded  and  had  be<?n    snli- 
sequently  repudiated  by  tht-  accused.  Middleton 

I  hesitate  to  interfere,  therefore,  with  the  iinding  of  the 
District  Judge  on  that  count. 

On  the  second  count  as  regards  the  Chetty,  however,  I 
think  the  case  is  different  to  that  reported  in  11  I.  W.  R. 
(Criminal)  24r 

In  that  case  the  intention  was  manifest  that  the  real 
vendor  was  on  her  way  to  carry  out  the  sale  when  she  was 
taken  ill. 

In  the  present  case  although  Ligona  now  says  she  ratifies 
the  act  of  her  personator,  it  is  clear  to  me  that  the 
Chetty  would  not  have  advanced  the  money  to  the 
accused  had  he  known  that  Isa  was  to  sign  for  Ligona,  and 
that  if  Isa  had  signed  he  would  have  advanced  money  to  the 
accused"  on  a  deed  which  it  is  quite  likely  might  have  been 
repudiated  by  Ligona,  and  so  have  caused  him  damage. 

The  accused  falsely  pretended  to  the  Chetty  that  Isa 
was  Ligona  with  the  object  of  obtaining  a  loan  from  him,  an 
act  fraudulent  within  the  meaning  of  Sir  James  Fitz  James 
Stephen's  dictum,  and  certainly  likely  at  the  least  to  have 
caused  injury  to  the  Chetty. 

I  think,  therefore,  that  the  verdict  on  the  second  count 
should  be  reversed  and  a  verdict  of  'guilty'  entered  in  its 
place,  but  that  the  verdict  on  the  first  count  must  stand. 

I  send  the  case  back  to  the  District  Judge  to  impose 
such  a  sentence  as  he  may  be  advised  to  inflict. 

Acquittal  on  the  1st  count  affirmed  and  on  the  second  count 
reversed. 

Proctor  for  Respondent.— 5^.  A.  Jaye/ileJce. 


76  COURT     OP     APPEAL    CASES. 

DON  THOMAS  v.  DON  GIRIGORIS 
No.  1617,5  P.  C.  Negombo. 

Present:  Middleton  J. 

29th  .January  1912. 

Cattle  Tn-sj)ii.-:-—Onli)M)i(Y  Oof  1S~G  ^  l^—1Jiihiwftil  irworal from 
cvs/ndy — Nfrcixity  of  jironf  rf  Icfiiilitji  (f  !.riznir  /ind  detention — Crimiiitil 
Ti-esjMsx— Tiifi'ntion  to  eomviii  ofenee  not  pv nixluM-e  inider  Penal  Code— 
OjI'eiirr  iiivst  he  jiiiiiixliiilile  ir'ith  imprixiiiimeiit  of  si.e  mont/ix  or  vpienrdu — 
Onl :  A'  of  i:ili!)  §  (J.  P"iuil  Coilr  §§  ^5,  4.'7,  and  433. 

lu  a  ehiirse  iiiuler  §  12  (if  "The  Catl.le  Tivspass  Orel:  1S76"  thovp 
iiiiist  lie  pioof  that  tho  liittle,  which  the  accuseil  is  clmryeil  with  vpinnving 
witlioiit  lawful  right,  were  legall,\  seized,  or  ili;ta,ined  for  ire-pn^-.  or  other- 
irise  under  the  provisions  of  that  ordinance. 

Gruiori--!  I'lumis  i.  Kii /ipr  Tinnlii  I  and  7IIU  P,  C.  Piinmliire  o47UG  -' 
followed. 

In  a  charge  of  Criminal  Trespass  where  the  intention  alleged  is  to 
commit  an  offen':e,  such  offence  if  punishable  by  any  law  other  than  the 
Penal  Code,  most  according  to  §  38  of  the  Penal  Code  be  punishable 
under  such  law  with  imprisonment  for  a  term  of  six  months  or  upwards. 

In  this  case  the  accused  was  charged  under  §  12  of  Ord: 
9  of  1876  as  amended  by  §  6  of  Ord:  8  of  1904  (The  cattle 
Trespass  Ord  :)*  with  removing  without  lawful  right  two 
head  of  cattle  detained  for  trespass  from  the  custody  of  the 
Complainant,  a  Police  Vidaiie,  and  under  §  433  Penal 
Code  with  committing  Criminal  Trespass  by  entering  the 
land  of  the  said  Police  Vidane  with  intent  to  remove  unlaw- 
fully the  said  two  head  of  cattle  lawfully  detained  for  trespass. 
At  the  trial  evidence  was  led  to  prove  that  the  cattle  were 
lirought  and  tied  up  in  the  complainant's  compound  and 
that  the  accused  entered  the  comi)ound  and  forcibly  removed 
the  cattle.     No  evidence  was  led  to  prove  that  the   animals 

1.     (18S2)    5S.C.C.34.        2.     S.C.Min:  IS  January  1911. 

*  §  12  as  amended  by  §  6  of  Ord  8  of  1909.  .  "  Any  person  without 
lawful  right  removing  or  taking  away,  or  attempting  to  remove  or  take 
iiway,  or  causing  to  be  removed  or  taken  away  any  cattle  or  animals  from 
the  custody  of  the  persons  entitled  to  keep  or  detain  the  same  under  tha 
provisions  of  this  Ordinance  shall  he  guilty  of  an  offence  and  shall  be 
liable  on  conviction  to  a  fine  which  may  extend  to  lifty  rupees  and  in 
default  of  payment  to  rigorous  imprisonment  for  a  term  not  exceeding 
3  months. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  77 

were  seized    while   trespassing.     The   Magistrate  convicted  D"";^  rhom^s^v 
the  accused  and  fined  him  Rs.  5  on  each  count. 

The  accused  appealed.  Middleton 

A.  8L  V.  Jayewardene  for  the   accused   appellant. — The 
conviction  on  the  first  count    (§  12  Ord :  9  of  1876)    is  badi 
as   there  is    no  evidence    that   the    cattle    had    been   legally 
seized   or  detained.     Proof:  of    such    seizure    and   detention 
is  necessary    as  the    headman  must    show  that  he  is    legally 
entitled  to  seize    oi'  detain  the    cattle  under  the    ordinance  : 
vide  §  12  of    till'    Ordinance  and  also  Gregorix  Gomis  v.  Kuppe 
Tamhif  '  which  was  followed  by  Hutcliinson  C.  J.  in  709  P.  C. 
PaiiiiiUirc    34706  ^,  The    eonvic-tion  on    the  second  cou7it  for 
criminal  tre.sjjass  (§  432  Penal  Code)  is  also  bad.    According 
to  the  definition  of   "Criminal    Trespass"    (§  427)  the   entry 
must  oe  with    the    latent    either    to   intimidate,   insult,   or 
annoy  the  person  in    occupation  or   to   commit   an   offence. 
If  the  intention  is  to  commit  an  offence  which  is  punishable 
by  any  law  other  than  the  Penal  Code,  the  offence   must  be 
punishable  with  imprisonment  for  six  months  or   upwards  : 
see  §  38  of  the   Penal    Code.     Here    the  intention  alleged  is 
to  commit  an    ofEenee   punishable  under  §    12    of  the  Cattle 
Trespass  Ord,  viz  :    to  ^remove   unlawfully   cattle   lawfully 
detained.     By  Ord  :  9  of  1909  §  6,   an  offence   under  §  12  is 
punishable  with  a  fine  not    exceeding   Rs.    50  or  in    default 
with  rigorous   imprisonment   for  a   term   not    exceeding  3 
months.     Thus  if  the    accused  entered  on  the  complainant's 
premises  with    the   intention    of    committing   the   offence 
alleged  he  is  not  guilty  of  Criminal  Trespass.     Further,  the 
intention  to  commit  this  offence  cannot  bejproved    as  there 
is  no  proof  that  the  cattle  were  legally  seized  or  detained  by 
the  complainant.     T  he  accused   is  therefore   entitled   to  be 

acquitted. 

c.  a.  V. 

Middleton  J. — The  accused  was  convicted  of  (1)  remov- 
in"  witliout   lawful    right  two  head  of   cattle  detained  for 

1.    (ISSS)    5  S.G.C.S4.        S.    S.C.lMin-.lSJanuari/im 


7M  COUR  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

^DSn^cirTgori.'  trespass  fi'om  the  custody  of  Police  Vidane  Don  Thomas 
under    §    12   of   Ordinance    9  of   1876  and    (2)  of  committ- 

Middleton  irii;' criminal  trespass  by  entering  the  land  of  the  said  Don 
TliDinas  I'olicp  Yidane  with  intent  tw  unlawfully  remove 
the  said  two  head  of  cattle  lawfully  detained  for  trespass 
under  §  433  of  the  Criminal    Code. 

The  contention  for  the  appellant  is  that  for  the  first 
offence  there  was  no  proof  adduced  of  the  legal  seizure  or 
detention  of  the  cattle  in  question  for  trespass  or  otherwise, 
and  that  a  link  in  the  chain  of  proof  was  wanting  as  laid 
down  in  the  case  of  Grecjoris  Gomis  v.  Kuppe  Tnmbi  and 
another  '  followed  by  Chief  Justice  Hutchinson  in  709  P.G. 
Fanadiirc  34106  ' 

On  reading  through  the  evidence,  it  is  clear  that  there 
is  no  proof  that  the  cattle  were  legally  seized  and  tethered 
in  the  Police  Vidane's  compound  or  that  he  was  entitled  to 
keep  them  there. 

On  the  second  charge  it  was  objected  that  an  offence 
under  §  12  of  Ordinance  9  of  1876  was  not  such  an  oflfenoe 
as  is  contemplated  in  the  definition  of  criminal  trespass  in 
§  427  of  the  Penal  Code  whicii  is  limited  by  §  38  of  the 
Code  to  oflfences  punishable  by  imprisonment  for  6  months 
or  upwards. 

Undei'  §  12  of  Ordinance  9  of  1876  the  oflfenoe  there 
may  be  punished  with  such  imprisonment  as  a  Police  Court 
has  jurisdiction  to  award,  but  this  has  been  altered  bj'  ^  G 
of  Ordinance  8  of  1909  to  a  fine  of  Rs.  .50  or  in  default  to 
rigorous  imprisonment  not  exceeding  3  months  and  so  is 
not  an  oflfence  in  the  meaning  of  that  word  as  used  in  §  433 
of  the  Penal  Code. 

I  hold  therefore  that  this  objection  must  also  be  sus- 
tained as  the  offence  under  §  12  of  Ordinance  9  of  1876  as 
amended  by  §  6  of  Ordinance  8  of  1909  is  not  punishable  by 
6  month's  inprisonment, 

1.     {1S82)    5.S.C.C.S4.        S.    S.C.M.  IZJany.  1911. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL     CASES.  79 

As  therefore  no  offence  was  proved  to  be  committed  by     Tiiomis 

'  "^      Fernando  v. 

the   removal   of  the   cattle   by    the   accused  it   is  uot    been      Perie?;. 

IDOssible  to  sustain  the  conviction  on  the  second  charge  which   Lascelles 

purports  to  be  tor  criminal  trespass  founded  on  an  intention     9;,"''  ^ 

Wood 
to  commit  that  which  has  uot  been    proved  to  be  nor   can  it  Renton  J. 

be  an  offence  referred  to  in  §  433. 

Thejappeal  must  therefore  be  allowed  and  the  convict- 
ion set  aside  and  accused  acquitted. 

Coiivirlwii  set  (tside  and  the  mcimi'.d  aciiuitted. 


„      ,        ,.  11     I       \  A.  h.  Aserappa. 

Proctors  tor  apuellaiu. —  >  ,,    -,,;■    ,,      "  , 

'^ '  )  LI.  W.  ba-naratunije. 


THOMIS  FERNANDO    u.    PERIES  et  at 

No.  4521  D.  C.  Kalutara 

Frenent:  Lascelles  C.  d>  and  Wood  Renton  J. 

7th  February  1912. 

Ni-ci'Miitij for  sHtl'MfJ  isxves  lii-foi-f  jn-ocvfiliiu)  totriiil. 

The  Judge  ought  to  record  the  settlement  of  the  issues  on  which  I'V 
his  direction  the  case  goes  to  trial. 

When  both  sides  suggest  diftereut  sets  o£  issues,  the  Judge  ought  to 
rule  ou  the  rival  sets  aud  decide  definitelj'  as  to  what  are  tjic  issues  mi 
which  he  directs,  the  i);uti''s  should  go  (o  t'-i.il. 

Hail  II  IVir  tlu'  Piainuff- Appellant . 
Wiidsivinlli  till-  till"  Dt'rciulauifi-lii'fpoiulcuts. 

Lascelles  C-  J.  didiverod  H  judguient  dialling  snlely 
with  the  fads  of  ihf  case. 

Wood  Renton  J.  I  Entirely  a-i'i'e,  and  huvr  notliiii'4' 
to  add  as  to  the  merits  of  rhc  apjieal.  Hut  1  ilesifc  to  call 
the  titteuiioii  of  the  District  .Judge  to  the  fresli  illustration 
which  this  case  affords  of  (he  embarrassmenr  that  is  cons- 
tantly being  caused  to  us  in  hearing  both  District  Court  and 
Court  of  Requests'  appeals,  by  the  failure  of  the  Judge  to 
record  the  settlement  of  the  issues  on  which,  by  his  direc- 
tion, the    caoo   went  to    trial.     We   have  here,    lirst,    several 


80  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Bliss  T.  Perera  jysQes  Suggested  by  the  proctor  for  certain  of  the  defendants. 
These  are  followed  bj'  several  other  issues  proposed  by 
the  proctor  for  the  plaintifE.  There  is  no  entry  by  the 
Judge  as  to  what  his  final  ruling  in  regard  to  these  riva 
sets  of  issues  was,  and  we  can  only  speculate  as  to  the  main 
points  which,  iu  his  opinion,  the  decision  of  the  case  had 
ultinaately  to  rest.  There  ought,  I  think,  to  be  in  such  cases 
a  dehnite  statement  by  the  Judge  as  to  what  are  the  issues 
on  which  he  directs  that  the  parties  should  go  to  trial. 


Appeal  alloived. 


Proctor  for  appellant — F.  A.  C.  Tirimatme. 
Proctor  for  respondents — C.  A.  L.  Orr. 


BLISS  V.  PERERA. 

No.   28027   P.  C.  Kandy. 

Present:    Wood  Renton,  J . 

28th  February,  1912. 

Lahovr  Oi'dhiann — vidfur-i'tir  olicmjfenr — serraitf—jouriwy-man  arti- 
ficer—§  11  of  Ordinance  No.  11  of  1865. 

.\  motor-car  chauffeur  is  not  a  servant  ov  journey-man  artificer 
within  the  meaning  of  Sec.  11  of  Ordinance  No.  of  1865. 

No  person  can  be  called  an  artificer  unless  the  primary  duty  of  his 
suvvice  is  the  making  of  something  ;  and  if  that  condition  is  not  fulfilled 
he  will  not  become  an  artificer  merely  because  a  subsidiary  duty  to 
make    something  is  incidentally  imposed  uiiou  him. 

Ill  this  case  the  accused  who  is  a  chauffeur  was  charged 
with  wilful  disobedience  of  orders  and  neglect  of  duty 
under  §  11  of  the  Labour  Ordinance.  The  accused  con- 
tended that  he  was  not  amenable  to  the  [provisions  of 
Ordinance  No.  11  of  1865  iu  that  he  was  not  a  servant 
within  the  meaning  of  §  1  nor  a  journeyman  artificer 
within  the  meaning  of  §  5  of  the  Ordinance.  The  learned 
Police  Magistrate  held  that  the  accused  was  a  servant  and 
convicted  him. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  81 

Against  this  conviction  the  accused  appealed.  *'■='  ^  ^*"" 

(t.  Koch  for  the  appellant. — The  appellant  cannot  be 
brought  under  any  one  of  the  classes  of  persons  described 
in  §  1  of  Ordinance  No.  11  of  1865.  He  is  not  a  "  menial, 
domestic  or  other  like  servant."  Menial  and  domestic 
servants  are  those  who  reside  in  their  mastei-'s  house — see  1 
Beling  and  Vand.  29  ;  Pearce  v.  Lansdotone  ^ ,-  Nowlan  v.  AUett  ^  ; 
and  Hahhimfs  Laws  of  England  Vol.  20  p.  70.  Nor  can  he  be 
brought  under  the  term  "journej'man  artiiicer."  An  artificer 
is  a  skilled  workman  {Morgan  v.  London  General  Omnibus  Co,^), 
one  who  ma/ce*  something  as  distinguished  from  one  who 
only  does  something  {Palmer  v.  Snow  *  .)  It  has  been  held 
that  the  driver  of  a  ti'am-car  is  not  a  workman  within  the 
meaning  of  the  Employers  and  Workmen  Act  of  187.5  (Cook  v. 
The  North  Metropolitan  Co.  ^)  "Workman"  has  been  defined 
in  this  act  as  "  a  labourer,  servant  in  husbandry,  journey- 
man artificer,  handicraftsman,  miner  or  a  person  otherwise 
engaged   in  manual  labour." 

H.  A.  Jai/ewardeni:  (with  V.  Grenier)  for  the  respondent. — 
Any  servant  or  employer  whether  he  comes  or  not  within 
the  definition  of  servant  in  §  1  of  Ordinance  No.  11  of 
1865  is  punishable  for  drunkenness,  disobedience  of  orders, 
neglect  of  duty  etc.  The  words  "extend  to  and  include  "  in 
§  1  show  that  the  definition  is  not  exhaustive,  (see  Ludovici 
V.  Nicholas  Appu.")  The  appellant  comes  within  the  term 
"journeyman  artificer.  "Jatiss  v.  Siano  '  ;  Cai'e  v.  William  '.An 
omnibus  driver  was  held  to  be  a  workman  under  the  act  of 
1875  :   Smith  v.  The  Associated  Omnibus  Co.  ^ 

Koch  in  reply. — Jansz  v.  Sinno  '  andCa/;e  v.  Williams  ^  have 
no  application  as,  in  those  cases,  blacksmiths  and  machine 
rulers  were  held  to  be  artificers  on  the  ground  that  their 
occupation  is  chiefly  manual.  Smith  v.  The  Associated   Omnibus 

1  (1893)  69  L.  T.  316.  5    (1887)  57  L.  T.  476. 

2  (1835)  2  O.  M.  ^  B.  54.  6    (1900)    4  N.  L.  B.  12. 
S     (1884)  13  Q.  B.  D.  832,  7    (1901)  2  Br.  251. 

4    {1900)  1  Q.  B.  725.  8    (1893)  2  S.C.B.  157. 

9.    (1907)  1.  K.  B.  916. 


82  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Bliss  V.  Perera  Qg.  ^  IS  not  ill  point  as  tlie  decision  in   that    case  turned  on 
Wood       ^^^   interpretation    of  the   words"    otherwise    engaged  in 
Renton  J-  manual  labour  "  in  the  act  of  1875. 

Wood  Renton  J. — This  is  an  interesting  case,  and 
it  has  been  well  argued  on  both  sides.  The  accused 
appellant  who  is,  or  was,  the  chauffeur  to  Mr.  Bliss 
was  charged  in  the  Police  Court  of  Kandy  with  wilful  dis- 
obedience of  orders  and  gross  neglect  of  duty  within  the 
meaning  of  the  provisions  of  §11  of  Ordinance  No.  11  of 
1865.  The  learned  Police  Magistrate  convicted  him  and 
sentenced  him  to  undergo  one  month's  rigorous  imprison 
ment.  On  the  facts  the  appellant  is  entitled  to  no  indulgence 
and  it  is  with  regret  that  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that 
the  conviction  against  him  must  be  set  aside.  The  evidence 
proves  beyond  all  doubt  that,  in  defiance  of  the  express 
instructions  of  his  employer,  who  had  directed  hitn  to  go  to 
Messrs.  Walker  &  Co.  for  petrol,  he  took  the  car  on  the  road 
to  Katugastota,  and  there,  whether  by  his  carelessness  or 
incompetence  or  otherwise  does  not  appear,  succeeded  in 
damaging  it  to  the  extent  of  Rs.  500.  If  he  falls  within  the 
provisions  of  §  11  of  Ordinance  No.  11  of  1865,  he  richly 
deserves  to  undergo  the  sentence  that  has  been  passed  upon 
him.  There  are  only  two  terms  in  that  section  which  have 
any  bearing  on  the  question  of  law  involved  in  this  appeal. 
The  one  is  "servant",  the  other  is  "  Journeyman  artificer." 
§  11  applies  to  the  misconduct  of  "any  servant."  But  for 
the  definition  of  "servant"  we  are  thrown  back  on  §  1. 
That  section  provides  that  the  word  "servant"  shall  extend 
to  and  include  menial,  domestic,  and  other  like  servants, 
pioneers,  kiinganies  and  other  labourers  whether  employed 
in  agricultural,  road,  railway  or  other  like  work."  It  is 
quite  true,  Mr.  Hector  Jayewardene  pointed  out  in  his 
argument  on  behalf  of  the  respondent,  that  the  term 
"include",  when  we  meet  with  it  in  the  provisions  of  a 
statute,  should  be  interpreted  generally  as  if  the  words  used 
were  "shall  include  in  addition  to  its  ordinary  and  popular 
1.    (1907)  1  K.  B.  9ie. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  83 

n^eaning."  But  it  seems  to  me  that  the  language  of  §  1  ^'"^^  '•  ^""^ 
cannot  be  made  to  apply  to  persons  in  the  position  of  the  yvoQ<| 
appellant.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  a  chauffeur  is  a  Renton,  J. 
person  presumed  to  be  possessed  of  mechanical  skill.  He 
requires  a  license  to  enable  him  to  exercise  his  calling  ;  and 
he  is  paid  wages  or  salai'y  in  excess  of  any  other  of  the 
classes  of  servants  referred  to  in  §  1.  I  was  inclined  at  one 
time  during  the  argument  to  think  that  the  case  of  chauflEeur 
might  be  brought  under  the  words  "other  like  servants,'' 
and  that  he  would  come  within  the  scope  of  those  svords 
just  as  a  coachman  is  admitted  to  do,  on  the  ground  that 
the  only  difference  between  his  case  and  that  of  the  coach- 
man is  that  he  drives  a  machine,  while  the  coachman  drives 
a  horse.  But  the  considerations  as  to  special  skill,  as  to  the 
necessity  for  a  license,  and  as  to  higher  wages,  which  I  have 
just  mentioned,  seem  to  me,  on  further  consideration,  to 
make  it  impossible  to  hold  that  that  analogy  is  good.  I 
woulu  also  point  out  that  the  words  in  §  1  "  following  other 
like  servants" — words  which  I  have  quoted  above  shew 
distinctly  that  it  is  to  servants  not  belonging  to  what  may 
be  called  the  skilled  class  that  §  1  applies.  If  the  appellant 
is  not  a  servant  within  the  meaning  of  §  1  can  he  be  said  to 
be  a  journeyman  artificer  within  the  meaning  of  §  11  of 
Ordinance  No.  11  of  1865  ?  The  mere  use  of  the  term 
•'journeyman"  would  not  prevent  him  from  being  so 
considered,  even  although  he  is  a  monthly  servant,  and  not 
one  working  from  day  to  day.  It  was  held  by  this  Court  in 
the  case  of  Jmisz  v.  Sinno^,  and  if  I  may  say  so  respectfully 
the  decision  seems  to  me  to  be  sound,  that  the  provisions  of 
§  7  make  it  clear  that  Ordinance  No.  1865  regards  the  term 
"journeyman"  in  a  sense  wider  than  its  literal  meaning. 
There  remains,  however,  the  difficulty  of  holding  that  a 
chauffeur  in  the  position  of  the  appellant  is  an  "artificer". 
The  term  "artificer"  has  been  defined  by  the  English  Courts 
in  two  cases  at  least.     In  Morgan  v.   London  6e?ieral  Omnibus 

1     (1911)  S  Br.  S51. 


84  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Bliss  V.  Perera  Company  ^  Brett  L.  J.  said  that  an  artificer  is  a  skilled  work- 

„,     ^      man  :  and  to  that  definition  the  later  decision  of  Channell  J. 

Wood 
Renton,  J.  and  Bucknill  J.,  in  Palmer  v.  Snow  ^  has  added  this  qualificat- 
ion that  he  mnst  be  a  skilled  workman  who  makes  some 
thing,  as  distinguished  from  one  who  only  does  something. 
It  was  on  that  ground  that  in  Falmer  v.  Snow  ^  the  learned 
Judges  just  mentioned  held  that  a  hairdresser  is  not  an 
artificer  within  the  meaning  of  the  Lord's  Day  Observance 
Act  (29  Ghai'les  2,  c.  7,  s.  1),  because  he  only  does  something 
and  makes  nothing.  On  the  strength  of  these  authorities, 
it  seems  to  me  that  no  person  can  be  called  an  artificer 
unless  the  primary  duty  of  his  service  is  the  making  of  some- 
thing, and  that,  if  that  condition  is  not  fulfilled,  he  will  not 
become  an  artificer  mei'ely  because  a  subsidiary  duty  to  make 
something  may  be  incidentally  imposed  upon  him.  I  was 
referred  by  Mr.  Hector  Jayewardene  to  the  decision  of 
Darling  and  A.  T.  Lawrence,  .J.  J,  in  Smith  v.  Associated 
Omnibus  Compafiy,  ^  where  it  was  held  that  the  driver  of  a 
motor  Omnibus  was  a  workman  within  the  definition  of  §  10 
of  the  Employers'  and  Workmen's  Act,  1875,  since  his  duty 
was  not  only  to  drive  the  Omnibus,  but  also  to  start  it  by 
means  of  the  starting  handle,  after  working  the  pump  to  get 
pressure  up,  and  at  the  same  time  to  repair  anything  that 
went  wrong  on  the  road.  We  are  concerned,  however,  not 
with  the  interpretation  of  the  term  "workman",  but  with 
that  of  the  word  "artificer",  which  has  been  defined  as 
including  only  workmen  of  a  special  class,  namely  those 
whose  primary  duty  is  to  make  something  and  not  merely  to 
do  something.  On  the  grounds  that  I  have  stated,  but  with 
regret  in  view  of  the  appellant's  gross  misconduct,  I  have 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  conviction  and  the  sentence 
must  be  set  aside  and  that  the  appellant  must  be  acquitted. 
I  direct  accordingly.  Conviction  quashed. 

Proctor   for     Appellant—/.  B,  Jonklaas. 

Proctor  for  Respondent— ii!.  W.  Jonklaas. 

1.  (1884)  13  Q.B.D.  832.  2.  (1900)  1  Q.B.  725. 

3.  {1907)  l.K.B.  916. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES.  85 

PAARIS  V.  PERERA.  ef  al : 

No.  8222  D.  C.  Negombo. 

Present :  Lascelles  C.  J.  &  Grenien  J. 

15th  February  1912. 

Begistration — FiscaWs  Conreyantv. — JReffi-stration  hi  wvojig folio  does 
not  amount  to  ri-ii'ist ration  under  the  Ordinance— ^^So  reijistered" — Uegidra- 
tion  Ordinance  No  U  of  1891  ^^  U,  {1),  16  and  17— Partition  act  ion- 
Execution- Credit  or — Status. 

A  deed  which  has  been  registered  in  the  wrong  folio  is  void  as  against 
parties  claming  an  adverse  interest,  on  valuable  consideration,  by  virtue 
of  a  subsequent  deed  which  has  been  duty  registered. 

Per  Lascelles  C.J.  A  deed  which  is  not  registered  in  the  proper  place 
is  not  "  so  registered  "  for  the  purpose  of  §  17. 

.  Moliammadu  Sali  v.  Suaris  "  followed. 

Iq  execucion  of  a  decree  against  one  Albinu  the  1st 
defendant  seized  an  undivided  J  share  of  a  land  called 
Dawatagahawatte,  whereupon  the  plaintiffs  preferred  a 
claim  to  that  share.  The  District  Judge  of  Negombo  (R.  G. 
Saunders  Esq  :)  thought  a  partition  action  would  settle  the 
dispute   and   accordingly    ordered  the    plaintiffs  to  bring  a 

«MOHAMMADU  SALI  v.  SUARIS. 
Ko.  4547  D.  C.  Kalutara. 
Present :  Wood  Eenton  and  Grenier  J.  J. 

4th  L>ecember  1911, 

Be  Sampayo  K.  C.  for  the  appellant. 

YanLangeriberg  (with  Balasingham)  for  the  respondent. 

Wood  Renton  J. — The  plaintiff-respondent  in  this  action  claimed 
the  partition  of  the  land  described  in  the  plaint,  allotting  to  himself  a  ^ 
share  by  right  of  purchase  on  deed  No,  i991  dated  27th  March,  1910,  and 
registered  on  30th  March  in  the  same  year.  The  added  defendant-appellant 
intervened  in  the  action  claiming  to  bs  entitled  to  the  same  j  share  by 
right  of  purchase  from  the  respondent's  vendor  on  deed  No,  9071,  dated 
17th  February,  1910,  and  registered  cu  2l8t  February,  1910.  The  learned 
District  Judge  held  that  tne  lands  conveyed  by  the  two  deeds  were 
identical-  But  he  also  held  that  the  respondent's  deed,  although  later  in 
date  and  in  registration,  was  entitled  to  priority  over  the  deed  of  the 
appellant  because  the  latter  deed  had  been  registered  in  the  wrong  folio 
through  the  negligence  of  the  appellant  himself.  "It  appears"  said  the 
District  Judge  "that  the  defendant's  deed  was  registered  under  a  different 
"  folio  than  the  one  in  which  it  would  have  been  placed  if  the  name,  extent, 
''  and  boundaries  had  been  the  same  as  those  appearing  in  the  plaintiff's 
"  deed."  This  finding  is  supported  hy  the  evidence,  and  the  only  point 
that  we  have  here  to  decide  is  whether  the  District  Judge  was   right  in 


86  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Paaris  partition  action.  The  plaintiffs,  tliereupon,  instituted  a  parti- 

Perera.  j.jqjj  ac^ioj;,  ^nd  prayed  ttiat  tlae  share  in  question  be  allotted 

to  them,  alleging  that  Marthina  and  her  husband  Sardial,  the 
original  owners  of  the  said  share,  transferred  the  same  to 
one  Pelis  Paaris  by  deed  No.  10566,  dated  16th  February, 
1906,  and  registered  on  the  5th  June,  1907,  and  that  the 
transferee  by  deed  No.  2023  date  21st  May,  1909,  sold  and 
conveyed  the  same  to  the  1st  plaintiff.  The  1st  defendant  filed 
answer  alleging  that  the  said  share  was  sold  in  execution 
against  Marthina,  and  purchased  by  one  Siadoris,  who 
obtained  a  Fiscal's  conveyance  No.  2637  dated  16th  August, 
1894  (it  was  conceded  in  the  Court  below  that  this  deed  was 
registered  in  the  wrong  folioj,  and  that  Siadoris  conveyed 
the  same  to  Albinu  by  deed  No.  9405  dated  1st  June  1904 
and  duly  registered,  and  that  Albinu,  with  a  view  to  defraud 
the  1st  defendant,  sold  the  same  to  the  3vd  defendant  after 
the  seizure  and  before  the  institution  of  this  action,  and  he 
therefore  asked  that  the  plaintiff's  action  be  dismissed.    The 

law  in  holding,  as  he  did,  that  the  effect  of  the  mistake  was  to  deprive 
the  appella,nt  of  the  benefit  of  his  prior  registration.  In  my  opinion  that 
question  must  be  answered  in  the  affirmative.  The  view  of  the  law  taken 
bj'  the  District  Judge  is  strongly  supported  by  the  language  of  §  15  (I), 
§  16  and  §  17  of  the  Land  Eegistration  Ordinance  1891  (No.  14  of  1891). 
§  15  (1)  requires  the  Registrar  to  prepare  and  keep  books  "for  the 
"  registration  therein  of  any  deed  which  may  be  brought  to  him  for 
"  registration  as  hereinafter  provided  ;  allotting  to  each  book  some  defined 
"  division  of  the  province  or  district,  so  that  every  deed  relating  to  lands 
"  situate  therein  may  be  registered  therein  in  such  manner  as  to  facilitate 
"  reference  to  all  existing  alienations  or  incumbrances  affecting  the  same 
'•  land."  §  16  provides  that  all  the  categories  of  deeds  which  are  enumerated 
in  it  "shall  be  registered  in  the  branch  office  of  the  district  in  which  such 
"  land  or  property  is  situate  ;  that  is  to  say,  in  the  books  mentioned  in  the 
"  preceding  section";  and  §  17  deprives  of  the  benefit  of  registration  deeds 
which  are  not  "so  registered  ",  unless  there  has  been  fraud  or  collusion  in 
obtaining  the  rival  deed,  or  in  securing  the  prior  registration.  There  is  a 
suggestion  in  the  petition  of  appeal  that  the  plaintiff -respondent  has  been 
guilty  of  fraud  in  the  present  case.  But  there  is  no  issue  an  to  fraud,  and 
the  learned  District  Judge,  while  he  was  obviously  somewhat  suspicious  of 
the  respondent's  proceedings,  has  held  that  there  is  no  clear  proof  that  he 
had,  in  fact,  obtained  his  deed  fraudulently.  That  being  so,  1  do  not  think 
that  it  would  be  fair  to  allow  that  point  to  be  raised  against  the  plaintiff 
respondent  now.  The  case,  therefore,  depends  on  the  construction  of 
Ordinance  No,  14  of  18i)l,  the  effect  of  which  has  just  been  stated.  It 
seems  to  me  that  the  District  Judge  has  interpreted  the  law  correctly- 
In  view  of  his  findings  on  the  facts,  particularly  as  to  the  appellant's 
negligence.  I  think  that  the  appeal  should  be  dismissed  with  costs, 

Grenier  J-— i  agree, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  87 

3rd  defendant  disclaimed  title.     The  learned  District  Judge  p»J"= 

held   that  the  registration  of  the  Fiscal's  Conveyance  in  the  P"«"- 

wrong  folio  did  not  amount  to  registration  under  the 
Ordinance  and  that  the  plaintiffs'  deed  ^therefore  had 
prioritj'.  The  1st  defendant  appealed. 

Samereivickrame  for  the  1st  defendant-appellant. — The 
provisions  of  §  23  of  Ord,  U  of  1891  have  been  complied 
with.  The  Fiscal's  couvej-ance  in  favour  of  Siadoris 
contains  an  accurate  description  of  the  property  affected 
thereby  and  the  respondent  cannot  complain  that  he 
was  misled  by  the  mere  registration  of  the  deed  in  the 
wi'ong  folio.  ILascelles  C.  J..  But  §  24  requires  that  the 
deed  shall  state  the  volume  and  folio  of  the  register  in 
which  such  property  has  been  previously  registered.]  It 
is  impracticable  to  do  that  in  Fiscals'  conveyance  because 
the  Fiscal  often  sells  against  the  wish  of  owners  and  is  not 
likely  to  get  access  to  the  deeds.  The  transferee  has  done 
everything  that  could  have  been  done  by  him,  and  he  should 
not  be  prejudiced  by  the  fault  of  the  Registrar  in  registering 
the  deed  in  the  wrong  folio.  \_G renter  J.  Have  you  any 
status  in  this  case  ?]  The  judgment-debtor  is  seeking  to 
defraud  us  and  we  are  well  within  our  rights,  in  asking  that 
our  interests  be  safeguarded. 

H.  A.  Jayewardene  (with  Jayetilelce)  for  the  plaintiffs 
respondents. — The  provisions  of  §  24  are  imperative.  There 
is  no  exception  in  the  case  of  Fiscal's  transfers  and  therefore 
the  deed  in  question  cannot  be  considered  to  be  "duly" 
registered.  A  wrong  registration  where  it  is  the  fault  of 
the  Registrar  of  deeds  founds  an  action  of  damages  against 
him  but  dei^rives  the  creditor  of  preference  (see  In  re  Carter- 
LeMraiit  and  Oeyer  v.  Dickson  &  Burnks  i)  The  appellant 
has  no  status  in  the  present  action.  He  asks  that  the  3rd 
defendant  be  allotted  the  share  in  question  but  the  3rd 
defendant  disclaims  title. 

1.   2.   Menzies  SUS  at  p,  840 


Paaris 

y. 
Perera 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Grenier  J.  referred  counsel  to  the  case  of  Mohammadu 
Soli  V.  Snarls'^  where  it  was  held  that  the  registration 
of  a  deed  in  the  wrong  folio  does  not  amount  to  registration 
under   the  Ordinance. 

Samereivic-hrame  in  reply. 

c.  a.  V. 

Lascelles  G.  J- — I  entirely  concur  in  the  judgment  of 
my  brother  Grenier.  The  question  of  law  involved  in  the 
appeal  is  whether  a  deed  which  has  been  registered  in  the 
wrong  folio  is  void  as  against  parties  claiming  an  adverse 
interest  on  valuable  consideration  bj^  virtue  of  a  subsequent 
deed  which  has  been  duly  registered.  On  the  construc- 
tion of  the  Ordinance  it  is  clear  that  the  privilege  which 
§  17  Ordinance  No.  14  of  1891  attaches  to  registered  deeds 
applies  only  to  deeds  which  have  been  registered  in 
accordance    with    the   preceding   sections  of  the   Ordinance. 

The     words   of     §    17   are      ''every   deed unless    so 

registered  shall  be  deemed  void "     Section  15  expressly 

provides  that  the  Registrar  shall  prepare  and  keep  books  for 
the  registration  of  deeds  "  allotting  to  each  book  some 
"  defined  division  of  the  province  or  district  so  that  every 
"  deed  relating  to  lands  situated  therein  may  be  registered 
"  therein  in  such  manner  as  to  facilitate  reference  to  all 
"  existing  alienations  or  encumbrances  effecting  the  same 
lands.  " 

It  is  clear  that  a  deed  which  is  not  registered  in  the 
proper  place  is  not  "  so  registered  "   for  the  purpose  of  §  17- 

Prom  another  point  of  view  the  decision  embodied  in  the 
judgment  of  my  brother  Grenier  is  the  only  one  which  would 
satisfy  the  equity  of  the  case.  I  do  not  desire  to  say  anything 
here  on  the  ultimate  responsibility  of  the  Registrar  for 
mistakes,  such  as  that  which  has  occurred  here  ;  but  it  is 
apparent  that  an  error  of  this  nature  may  involve  the   person 

1.  (1912)  1  C.A.C.  85. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  89 

or  persons  interested  either  in  tbe  erroneously  registered  deed  ^^"'^ 

or  in  the  subsequent  duly  registered  deed,  in  serious  loss.     As  ^"""^ 

between  these  two  classes  of  persons  it  is  equitable  that  the  loss,  Qrenler  J- 
if  any,  should  fall  on  the  former  class.  For  it  is  possible  for 
the  person  who  registers  a  deed  to  see  that  it  is  registered  in 
accordance  with  the  Ordinance,  whilst  a  subsequent 
purchaser  or  mortgagee  is  powerless  with  regard  to  the 
proper  registration  of  previous  deeds.  The  immediute  loss, 
if  any,  should  therefore  fall  on  those  interested  in  the  deed 
which  has  been  improperly  registered. 

Grenier,  J. — This  is  a  partition  action.  The  contest  is 
between  the  first  defendant  who  is  the  appellant,  and  the 
plaintiffs  who  are  the  respondents,  the  share  in  dispute 
being  an  undivided  |^th  of  the  land  sought  to  be  partitioned. 
It  was  admitted  that  Marthina  was  the  owner  of  this  share^ 
The  plaintiffs'  case  was  that  Marthina  and  Sardial  her 
husband  transferred  the  share  to  Pelis  Paaris  by  deed  No, 
1().'>66  dated  the  16th  February  1906  and  marked  P',and 
that  the  transferee  by  deed  No.  2023  dated  21st  May,  1909 
and  mai-ked  P-  conveyed  to  the  1st  plaintiff  the  wife  of  the 
2nd  plaintiff.     Both  P^  and  P'^  are  duly  registered. 

The  ist  defendant's  contention  was  that  before  the  sale 
to  the  1st  plaintiff  the  share  in  question  was  sold  in 
execution  against  Marthina  and  purchased  by  Siadoris  Appu 
who  sold  it  to  Alvinu  Appu  who  conveyed  it  to  Migel  Perera 
the  3rd  defendant.  The  purchase  by  Siadoris  was  on  the 
26st  August  1894,  and  the  purchase  by  Alvinu  was  on  the 
1st  June  1904.  It  would  appear  that  the  1st  defendant 
brought  an  action  No.  17442  in  the  District  Court  of 
Ncgombo  against  Alvinu  and  seized  in  execution  the  J,  share 
when  the  plaintiff^claimed  it,  After  the  seizure  it  was  that 
Alvinu  conveyed  to  the  3rd  defendant.  It  will  thus  be  seen 
that  the  1st  defendant  has  absolutely  no  right  whatever  to 
the  share  in  question,  nor,  as  far  as  I  can  see,  has  he  any 
kind  of  interest  in  it.  The  3rd  defendant  disclaims  all  title 
to  the   share,   and   this   being   a   partition   action    the    1st 


90  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Paarij  defendant  has  no  status  in  it  unless  he  can  show  that   he  is 

Perera  entitled  to  a  share  in  the  land  which  is  the  subject  of  partition. 

Orenier,  J.  ^^  ''^^^  ''*^'^*^6  of  the  facts  plaintiffs  are  bound  to  succeed,  but 
there  was  a  question  of  registration  raised  which,  I  think 
must  be  decided  in  favour  of  the  plaintiffs.  Both  P'  and 
P-  to  which  I  have  alreadj' referred  were  duly  registered. 
The  Fiscal's  conveyance  in  favour  of  Siadoris  who  purchased 
on  the  26tli  August  189i  beai-s  no  evidence  on  the  face  of  it 
of  any  registration,  but  it  was  apparently  conceded  in  the 
Court  below  that  the  deed  was  registered  but  in  another 
folio.  The  District  Jadge  found  that  no  registration  of  the 
Fiscal's  conveyance  in  favour  of  Siadoris  appeared  in  the 
list  of  incumbrances,  and  that  the  boundaries  were  different 
from  the  boundaries  given  in  the  other  deeds.  In  the  "  Land 
Registration  Ordinance  "  No.  14  of  IS91,  expi-ess  provision 
is  made  for  the  registration  of  deeds  in  a  set  of  books  kept 
for  that  purpose,  to  each  book  being  allotted  some  defined 
portion  of  the  district  or  districts  or  part  thereof  iu  manner 
provided  by  §  15  (1)  which  declares  the  object  in  the 
following  terms  : — 

"  So  that  every  deed  relating  to  lands  situate  therein 
"  may  be  registered  so  as  to  facilitate  reference  to  all 
"  existing  alienations  or  iucambrances  affecting  the  same 
"  lands." 

Now  §  17  enacts  that  every  deed  unless  so  regis- 
tered shall  be  deemed  void  as  against  all  parties  claiming 
an  adverse  interest  thereto  on  valuable  consideration  by 
virtue  of  any  subsequent  deed  which  shall  have  been  duly 
registered  as  aforesaid.  There  are  certain  provisos  to 
§  17  with  which  we  are  not  concerned  in  this  case.  In 
view  therefore  of  the  express  provisions  of  §^  15  fl), 
16  and  17  it  is  clear  that  as  the  Fiscal's  convej^ance  in 
favour  of  Siadoris  dated  the  26  August,  1894  was  registered 
in  the  wrong  folio,  it  must  be  considered  void  as  against  the 
conveyance  by  Marthina  to  Pelis  Paaris  dated  the  16th 
February  1906,   (Pi)  which  was  duly  registered  in  the  right 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  91 

folio,  and  the  conveyance  by  Pelis  Paaris   of   the  21st    May,  siWa  v.  siiva 
1909  which  was  also  duly  registered  and  in  the   right   folio.     Lascelles 
It  is  unquestionable  that  the  interest  that  the  plaintifE  claims         C.  J. 
is  an  adverse  interest  within  the  meaning  of  §  17. 

In  case  No.  170  D.C.  Kalutara  4.547  ^  which  wasdecided 
by  my  brother  Wood  Renton  and  myself  (S.  C.  Minutes  4th 
December,  1911)  we  construed  §§  15  (1),  16  and  17  of 
Ordinance  No.  14  of  1891  in  the  same  way  as  I  have 
construed  them  here.  It  does  not  seem  possible  to  place 
any  other  construction  ou  those  sections. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  of  the  1st  defendant  with 
costs  in  both  Courts. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Pi-octor  for  appellant — Q.  J.  Edirisini/Iie. 
Proctor  for  respondents—//.  A.  Jai/etilnke. 


FULL     BENCH. 


SILVA   V  SILVA   et   al : 

No.   4967,   D.   C.   Matara 

Present:  Lascelles  C  J.,  Wood  Renton  & 
Grenier  d.  J. 

28th   February.   1912. 

Partition  artioii — Intcrluciitory  rlcorei'  for  a  partition — Power  of  a 
Judge  tu  alter  or  woiiify  it — §§ -Z59  and  207  Ciril  ProcethireCode  — ^4 
of  Ordinance  10  of  1S6S. 

Where  there  has  been  an  interlocutory  decree  for  a  partition,  a  Court 
of  first  instance  may  not  set  it  aside  and  order  a  sale,  however  expedient, 
on  the  evidence,  a  sale  may  be. 

Per  Wood  Benton  J. — Such  an  order  can  be  made  by  the  Supreme 
Court  alone. 

Semhle, — An  interlocutory  decree  for  a  partition  is  a  decree  within 
the  meaning  of  §  207,  and,  therefore,  can  only  be  modified  in  accordance 
with  the  provisions  of  §  189  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

Silva  V  Silra  -  followed. 

1.  {1912)  1  C.A.C.  85.        2.  {1910)  J3  N-L.B.fage  87. 


92  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

siiva  V.  siiva  fhis  w&s  a  partition  action  in  which  the  District  Judge 

of  Matara,  after  satisfying  himself  that  the  land  was  owned 
anil  possessed  in  the  sliures  shown  in  the  plaintiff's  pedigree, 
entered  an  interlocutory  decree  foi'  a  partition  of  the  land, 
on  the  Sth  December,  191().  As  the  parties  were  not  agreed 
with  regard  to  the  scheme  of  partition  the  District  Judge 
thought  it  impossible  to  partition  the  land  to  the  satisfaction 
of  all  parties  and  he  therefore  directed  a  sale  of  the  land 
and  a  decree  was  entered  up  accordingly  on  the  23rd 
December,  1911. 

The  appeal  is  against  this  order. 

Vernon  Orfnier  (with  H.  A,  Jayewardene)  for  the  6fch  and 
7th  defendant's-appellants. — It  was  not  competent  for  the 
learned  District  Judge  to  order  a  sale  because  there  was  an 
original  decree  foi  a  partition  of  the  land  entered  by  him, 
A  Court  of  first  instance  has  no  inherent  power  to  vacate 
a  decree  even  when  it  has  been  surprised  into  the  making 
of  it  by  fraud,  collusion  or  mistake  of  fact  (see  de  Siha  v. 
Pannasamy  Pulle^)  [Wood  Renton  J.  You  will  grant  that 
the  Supreme  Court  has  the  power  to  direct  a  sale.]  Yes, 
that  would  be  so.  An  iuterlocutoy  decree  for  a  partition  is 
a  decre'e  within  the  meaning  of  §  207  and,  can,  therefore 
only  be  modified  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
§  189  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  (see  iilva  v.  Silva^) 

Be  Sampayo,  K.  C.  for  the  plaintiffs-respondents — A 
decree  in  a  partition  action  is  a  declaratory  decree.  Once  the 
Co  art  decrees  a  person  entitled  to  a  certain  share,  it  would 
certainly  not  be  competent  for  the  Court  to  vacate  that 
decree  and  declare  another  person  entitled  to  that  share  ; 
but  whether  the  decree  should  be  executed  by  partition  or 
by  sale  is  purely  a  ministerial  matter  and  theiCourt  may, 
in  its  discretion,  choose  the  most  convenient  manner  of 
executing  the  decree  [Wood  Renion  J.  The  case  of  Sihaii^ 
Silva^  appears   to  me    to  be  against  you.J     The  question  of 

I.    {190V)    1  Cw.L.B.ne.       2.    (1910)    13N.L.B.87. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  93 

fact   involved   in    that   case   was   one   of  title   and   not   of  siiva  i>.  siiva 
procedure. 


Allan  Drielierci  for  the  Sth  defendant-respondent. 
Vernnii  Gr enter  in  reply. 

r.  a.  r. 

Lascelles  C-  J.-^Tbis  is  a  partition  action.  On  the  Sth 
of  December,  1910,  the  District  Judge  of  Matara  found  that 
the  land  in  question  was  owned  by  the  persons  in  the  shares 
shewn  in  the  plaintiff's  pedigree,  and  an  interlocutory  order 
was  entered  accordingly.  Difficulties  then  arose  v;ith  regard 
to  the  scheme  of  partition  and  it  was  ultimately  found  imposs- 
ible to  partition  the  land  to  the  satisfaction  of  all  parties.  The 
District  Judge  after  inspecting  the  land  and  considering  the 
different  proposals  for  partition  directed  a  sale  of  the  land  and 
a  decree  was  drawn  up  accordingly  on  the  23rd  October  1911, 

It  is  now  contended  by  the  appellants  that  it  was  not 
open  to  the  District  Judge  to  order  a  sale  of  the  property  and 
thereby,  in  effect,  to  vary  the  earlier  interlocutory  order. 

After  the  judgment  of  the  Full  Bench  of  this  Court  in 
Silva  V.  Silva'^,  I  do  not  think  that  it  is  possible  to 
contend  that  it  is  open  for  a  Judge  who  has  made  a  prelimina- 
ry decree  in  an  action  or  for  his  successor  to  alter  or  modify  • 
the  preliminary  decree  except  subject  to  and  in  accordance 
with  §  189  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

In  the  pi'esent  case  it  seems  clear  that  the  learned  Dis- 
trict Judge  in  directing  a  sale  acted  in  the  best  interests  of  the 
shareholders  as  a  whole.  And  in  order  to  remove  any  tech- 
nical objection  to  his  carrying  out  a  sale,  if  he  still  considers 
that  a  sale  is  to  the  advantage  of  all  the  shareholders,  I 
would  set  aside  both  the  final  and  interlocutory  decree  and 
remit  the  case  to  the  District  Judge  to  make  such  interlocut- 
ory andifinal  orders  as  he  may  consider  advisable  after  hearing 
in  each  case  any  further  objection  which  any  of  the  parties 
may  put  before  him. 

1.    {1910)    IS  N.  L.  B.  87. 


Lascelles, 
C.J. 


94  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

I  would  make  no  order  with  regard  to  the  costs  of  this 

.  appeal  and  would  leave  the'  other  costs  in  the  discretion  ol: 
Qremer,  J.   ^^ 

Wood     the  District  Judge. 
Renton,  J. 

Grenier  J. — I  agree  to  the  order  proposed. 

Wood  Renton  J. — I  quite  agree  that  in  this  case  a 
satisfactory  partition  is  impracticable,  and  that  the  Supreme 
Court,  on  the  terms  proposed  by  My  Lord  the  Chief  Justice, 
should  set  aside  the  interlocutory  decree  for  partition,  and 
direct  a  sale. 

I  desire  however,  to  say  that,  in  my  opinion  such  an 
order  can  be  made  by  the  Supreme  Court  alone.  I  do  not 
think  that  where,  as  here,  there  has  been  an  interlocutory 
decree  for  a  partition,  the  proviso  to  §  4  of  Ordinance 
No.  10  of  1863  or  any  other  section  in  that  Ordinance 
enables  a  Court  of  first  instance  to  set  it  aside,  and  order  a 
sale,  however  expedient  on  the  evidence  a  sale  might  be. 
We  are  bound  on  this  point  by  the  decision  in  Silva  v. 
Silm^  It  is  true,  as  Mr.  de  Sampayo  pointed  out,  that 
the  question  of  fact  involved  in  that  case  was  one  of  title, 
and  not  of  procedure.  But  the  ratio  decidendi  clearly  was  that 
an  interlocutory  decree  for  a  partition  is  a  decree  within  the 
.meaning  of  §  207,  and,  therefore,  can  only  be  modifi- 
ed  in   accordance   with  the    provisions   of   §   189,   of   the 

Civil  Procedure  Code. 

Case  remitted. 

Proctor   for    Appellants — C.  D,  Serasinghe. 
Proctor  for  Plaintiffs  Respondents — G.  E.  Keunenan. 
Proctor  for  8th  deft.-Respondent— C.  B.  B.  Altendorff. 


1.    {1910)    1$  JSr.  L.  H.  87. 


COURT     OF     APPEilL     CASES.  95 

MUDALIHAMI  v.  PUNCHI  BANDA  et  al.  MudaUhami 

No.  219     C.  R.  Gampola.  Punohi  ^Banda 

Present:     Lascelles,  C.J. 

28th  February  1912 

Fromissorij  Note — Joint  Uuhillti/ — Judgtneu'  by  default  against  one 
defendant  no  bar  tn  iictiun  coiitinuin;/  against  co-defendant — Whether  Engluh 
Lam  of  prori'Oure  appliex  to  actions  on  Bills  of  E.rrJinnr/e  and  Promissory 
Notes — Procedufe  of  \sueh  aotionx  regulated  by  the  Cir,  Fro.  Code, — 
Judgment  by  default  entered  by  Court  not  to  deprive  party  of  his  remedy 
— Ciril  Procedure  Code  ^30 — English  rules  0.  xiii,  i ,  iv — Ordinance 
5  of  1S5-1  §  H. 

Section  2  of  Ord  :  5  of  1852  cannot  be  construed  as  introducing  any 
part  of  the  English  procedure  into  actions  on  bills  of  exchange  and 
promissory  notes. 

These  actions  are  regulated  by  the  Civil  Procedure  Code, 

There  is  no  provision  in  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  which  prevents  a 
plaintiff  in  whose  favour  judgment  by  default  has  been  entered  against 
one  of  several  defendants  who  are  jointly  liable,  from  continuing  his 
action  against  the  other   defendant. 

Even  according  to  the  English  law  read  with  o.  xiii.  r.  iv,  of  the 
Rules  and  Orders,  a  plaintilf  suing  persons  jointly  liable  is  iillowfd.  where 
one  of  several  defendants  fail  to  appear,  to  enter  final  judgment  against 
those  who  have  failed  to  appear  \vithout  prejudice  to  his  right  to  proceed 
with  his  action  against  those  who  have  appeared. 

Under  §  30  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  the  Court  is  not  obliged  to  [lass 
a  decree  for  default  against  a  defendant  for  failing  to  appear  provided  that 
one  defendant  at  least  has  appeared.  But  where  the  Court  has  elected 
to  order  judgment  to  be  entered  against  a  defendant  by  default,  a  judgment 
so  entered  should  not  deprive  the  plaintitt'  of  his  remedy  against  the  other 
defendant. 

In  this  case  the  plaintiff  as  the  endorsee  of  a  promissory 
note  sued  the  two  defendants,  who  were  tlie  makers.  On  the 
day  fixed  for  the  2nd  defendant  to  file  answer  she  was 
absent,  and  the  Court  ordered  judgment  to  be  entered  against 
her  by  default,  and  fixed  the  case  for  trial  as  against  the  Isj; 

i^  0  XIII.  r  IV  is  as  follows  : — "Where  the  writ  of  summons  is  endorsed 
for  a  liquidated  demand  whether  specially  or  otherwise,  and  there  are 
several  defendants,  of  whom  one  or  more  appear  to  the  writ  and  another 
or  others  of  them  fail  to  appear,  the  plaintiff  may  enter  tinal  judgment,  as 
in  the  preceding  rule,  against  such  as  have  not  appeared  and  may  issue 
execution  upon  such  judgment  without  prejudice  to  his  right  to  proceed 
with  the  action  against  such  as  have  appeared. 


96  COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES. 

Mudaiihami     defendiint.     Two  of  the  issues  on  which  the  parties  went  to 

Punchi  Bands    (.j.jy^i  ^^gj.^. 

(1)  Is  the  note  in  fact  a  joint  and  several  note  or  a  joint 
note  ? 

(2)  If  joint,  can  plaintiff  maintain  the  action,  judgment 
having  gone  against  one  defendant  on  the  note  ? 

The  learned  Commissioner  of  Requests  held  that  the  note 
was  a  joint  one  and  that  as  judgment  had  been  entered  as 
against  the  2nd  defendant,  such  judgment  was  a  bar  to  an 
action  against  the  1st  defendant,  and  dismissed  the  plaintiff's 
action  against  the  1st  defendant  with  costs.  The  plaintiff 
appealed. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewankiie  for  the  plaintiff-appellant.— As 
both  defendants  were  sued  in  the  same  action  judgment 
against  one  was  not  a  bar  to  a  judgment  against  the  other. 
The  English  law  applicable  to  promissory  notes  was 
introduced  to  Ceylon  by  §  2  of  Ord.  5  of  1852,  which 
declared  that  the  law  applicable  "  shall  be  the  same  in  respect 
of  the  said  matters  as  would  be  administered  in  England  in 
the  like  case  at.  Hie  corresjwmUii//  pcrio:!,  if  the  contract  had  been 
entered  into  or  if  the  act  in  respect  of  which  any  such 
question   shall   have   arisen   had   been   done    in     England 

"  The  law  of  England   as   at   present  existing 

would  be  the  law  applicable.  According  to  the  English  Com- 
mon Law,  each  of  the  makers  of  a  joint  promissory  note  is 
liable  for  the  whole  debt,  but  a  judgment  obtained  against 
one,  although  unsatisfied  is  a  bar  to  an  action  against  the 
others  (See  Mcmuel  Isiaki/  v.  Sinnalamhj  ');  this  principle  was 
held  applicable  even  where  the  plaintiff  had  obtained  judg- 
men  t  by  consent  against  one  of  the  defendants  (See  McLeod  v. 
Power  -J.  But  the  Common  Law  on  this  point  has  been 
modified  by  the  English  Rules  and  Oixlers  and  the  English 
Law  on  the  point  at  the  corresponding  period  must  be  taken  to 
be  the  Common  Law  as  modified  by  the  English  Rules  and 

1.     (1910)  13  .N.L.B.  884.        2.     (1898)  LM.  3  Ch.  395. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  OASES.  97 

Orders!     [  Las^cp.Upa  C.  J.     The   English    Law   yon    refer    to,  Mudalihamy 
appears  to  be    mere   rules   of   procedure.     Do   thej-    apply     Pnnchi 
here  ?]  It  is  submitted  that  the  rules  referred  to  are  rules  of      ■'"'nda 
procedure    and   shouhl    not   be  held  applicable  here.     Our    Lascelles 
procedure  is  regulated  by  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  there 
is    no    provision    in   that   Code   ■svhich   would  prevent  the 
plaintiff    from    continuing    the  action    as    against    the   Ist 
defendant.     Section    90    may    have    some    bearing   on  the 
question,  but    in   the   present  case    judgment  was   entered 
without  the  knowledge  or  consent    of  the  plaintiff   and   the 
act  of  the  court  should  not  prejudice  him.     The  circumstance 
that   the   judgment   by   default    was  entered     without    the 
plaintiff  being  a  party  to  it  diflFerentiates  this  case'f  rom  McLeod 
V.  Pou'er\     Counsel  here  referred  to  the  case  of   Babapidk  v 
Eajaratnam  et  al.- The  English  Law,  as  modified  by   0.  xiii, 
r.  iv.  of  the  Rules  and  Orders,  enables  ti  party  in  the  position 
of  the  present  plaintiff  to    continue   an   action   against   one 
defendant  although  judgment  by  default   has   been   entered 
against  another  co-defendant. 

The  Respondent  was  not  represented. 

c,  a.  V. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — The  plaintifE  in  this  case  sues  as  the 
endorsee  of  a  note  given  by  the  defendants.  On  the  21st 
October,  1911  summons  was  reported  served  ou  the  1st 
defendant  and  the  •2nd  defendant  was  reported  not  to  be 
found.  The  1st  defendant  being  absent,  order  was  macje 
entering  judgment  against  the  Ist  defendant  and  striking 
the  action  off  as  against  the  2ud  defendant.  On  the  Hrd 
October  the  order  against  tfie  jlst  defendant  was  vacated 
and  he  was  allowed  to  file  answer.  On  the  20th  October  the 
parties  were  present  and  the  2nd  defendant,  on  whom  notice 
had  been  served,  was  allowed  to  file  answer  before  the  31st 
October.  On  the  31st  the  2nd  defendant  was  absent  and 
had  not  filed  answer.  Thereupon  judgment  was  entered 
against  her  by  default.  On  the  19th  December 
the  learned  commissioner  held  that  the  note  was  a 
1.     {1898)    L.B.2Ch.  295.      2.     (1906)  5  N.  L.  B  I. 


98  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Miidalihamy  joint  one,  andMiat  tliH  judgment   which    alreadj'    had    been 

Punolii      entered  against  the  2nd  defiMidant    was  a  bar    to   the   claim 

"  at^idnst    the    1st    defendant   and    the  action  was  accon ling;! y 

Lascelle.4,  dismissed  as  ajjainst  lier, 
C,J. 

Now,  even,  ii^  §  '1  of;  tlie  Ordinance  No.  5  of  lSr)2 
be  construed  so  as  to  make  the  Englisli  rules  of  procedure 
as  well  as  the  English  law  applicable  to  actions  on 
promissory  notes,  the  judgment  coubl  not  be  supported  for 
by  o.  Xlir.  r,  IV  of  the  Rules  of  the  English  Supreme 
Court  the  plaintiff  is  allowed,  where  one  of  several  defen. 
dants  fail  to  appear,  to  enter  final  judgmejit  against  those 
wlio  ha/e  not  appeared,  without  prejudice  to  his  right  to 
proceed  with  his  action  against  those  who  have  appeared. 
But  I  think  that  §  2  of  the  Ordinance  No.  6  of  18,52 
cannot  be  construed  as  introducing  any  part  of  the  English 
procedure  into  actions  on  bills  of  exchange  and  promissory 
notes.  These  actions,  like  others,  are  regulated  by  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code,  'i'here  is  no  provision  in  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code  to  the  effect  that  a  judgment  by  default 
against  one  of  several  joint  defendants  prejudices  the 
plaintiff's  right  to  proceed  with  the  action  against  the  other 
defendant.  Section  90  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  provides 
that  where  there  are  several  defendants  the  Court  shall  not 
be  obliged  to  pass  a  decree  for  default  against  a  defendant 
for  failing  to  appear,  provided  that  one  defendant  at  least 
appears.  The  decree  against  the  2nd  defeiiiant  in  the  case 
appears  to  have  beeu  entered  at  the  instance  of  the 
Commissioner  and  not  at  the  instance  of  the  plaintiff  and  it 
would  be  unreasonable  and  unfair  that  the  plaintiff  should 
be  deprived  of  his  remedy  against  the  1st  defendant  because 
the  Judge,  in  a  matter  within  his  discretion,  elected  to  order 
judgment  to  be  eut<'red  against  the  2nd  defendant. 

I  set  aside  the  judgment  dismissing  the  action  against 
the   1st    defendant   and    direct  the  action  to  proceed  against 

1,     {18!)!))  4  N.L.H.    346: 


COURT     OF    APPEAL     CASES  99 

him  iii  the  ordinary  course.     The  appellant  is  entitled  to  the 

costs  of  the  appeal. 

Jiiilgnnnl  set  aside  and  rase  sent  bark. 

Proctor  for  Appellant — T.  B.  Paiiabokke, 
Pi'octor  for  Respondeat — E.  G.  JonJdaas. 


SCHRADER  p.  JOSEPH. 

No.  14782  C.  R,  Chilaw. 

Prespiit:    Lascelles  C.J,     &iGrenier  J. 

26th  February  1912. 
Ciril  P rorrdurr  Code — appearaiirc  of  partirx — C'ovrt  of  Reqiust s — date 
of  trial — default  of  appeamiirc — iibsciu-r   of  partij   whrn    case    called — 
judgment  by  dcfavlt— Ciril  Procedure  Code  §  S2S  (1,)  (^),  (5). 

The  exact  point  of  time  at  which  a  party  who  fails  to  appear  in  a 
Court  of  Requests  is  liable,  if  a  plaintiff  to  have  his  action  dismissed,  if  a 
defendant  to  have  judgment  entered  against  him,  bj'  default,  is  that  at 
which  the  party  is  required  to  attend,  and,  if  no  time  is  fixed,  the  time 
when  the  case  is  called  on  for  hearing. 

A  party  ia  default  has  not  the  whole  of  the  day  of  default  for  excusing 
his  absence, 

Marihav  r.  The  C'olomho  Mvmeipal  Council  '  and  Hudjiar  r.  Kvnjic  2 
over  ruled. 

The  appeal  was  originally  argued  before  Wood  Renton  J. 
and  His  Lordship  referred  it  to  a  Bench  of  two  Judges.  The 
facts  appear  in  the  referring  judgment  of  Wood  Renton  J- 
which  ia  as  follows  ; — 

This  is  one  of  the  numerous  cases  that  comg 
up  in  appeal  owing  to  the  default  of  parties  or  their 
legal  advisers  to  appear  on  the  day  and  at  the  time 
fixed  for  the  hearing  of  actions  in  which  they  are  concerned 
The  trial,  in  the  present  case,  was  fixed  for  7th  December' 
1911.  The  first  defendant,  who  is  the  appellant,  was  absent 
when  the  case  was  called.  So  was  his  proctor,  Mr.  T.  M- 
Fernando.  The  Commissioner  of  Requests,  acting  under 
§  823  (2)  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  on  a  motion  by  the 
plaintiti'   respondent's     counsel,   directed     judgment    to    be 

1.    2  Brotune  i'40.  S.  (1-903)  1  A.  0.  B.  ;7. 


100  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Schiader  v.  entered  in  the  respondent's  favour.     On    the   same   day  the 
appellant's  proctor  filf-d   an   affidavit,   and  for  the   reasons 
stated  therein  moved,  under  §  S2.'5  (?>)  of  the  Civil  Procedure 
Code,  that  the   judgment  enter^il  in  tbe  respondent's  favour 
should  be  re-opened,  and  the  case  fixed  again  for  trial.  Notice 
of  this  motion  was  issued  to   the    respondent.     The    motion 
was  argued   on    8th    December,   and   the   Commissioner   of 
Requests   refused    it    with  costs.     The    present    appeal    is 
brought  against  tiie  refusal  to  allow  the  case  to  be  re-opened. 
The  Commissioner's  decision  is  challenged  in  the  petition  of 
appeal  on  the  ground  that  he    was  wrong   ii)  holding   that   a 
good  case  for  the  re-opening  of  the  judgment  had  not  been 
made  out  on  the  proctor's  affidavit.  The    explanation   which 
the  proctor  gave  of  his  absence  was  that   he  did   not  come  to 
Court  on  the  day  in  question  at  the  usaal  hour,  namely,   10 
a.  m.  as  his  wife   was  ill,  that  he   intended  coming  to   Court 
only  when  the  Commissioner  mounted  the  Bench,  and   that 
he  had  asked  the  appellant's  witnessess  to  come  and   let  him 
know  as  soon   as   the   Commissioner  had  taken  his   seat   in 
Court.     He  was  duly  informed  of  the  Commissioner's  arrival, 
and  came  to  Court   himself,   but  reached  it  only    about   five 
njinutes  after  judgment  had  been  entered  in   favour   of    the 
respondent.     The  proctor  added  that  the  appellant   was    not 
himself   present    in  court,  in  as  much  as    his    evidence   was 
not  required,   and   he    had   told    him    not   to   attend.     The 
learned  Commissioner  of  Requests,    in  my   opinion,    rightly 
held  on  this  evidence  that  no  cast'  for  re-opening    the   juds- 
ment  under  §  82i?  (3)  had  been  made  out,  in  as  much    as  the 
proctor  had  not  shown  "  that  he  was  prevented  from  appear- 
ing in  due  time  by  accident  or  misfortune  or  other  unaviod- 
able  cause."     There  was  no  allegation  ttiat  his    wife's  illness 
was  sudden,  or  so  serious  as  to   prevent  him  from    being   in 
court   in    lime,    or   in    any    event   from   having   asked   the 
Commissioner,  either  in  writing  or  by  the  verbal  application 
of  some     other  proctor,   to   excuse    his    temporary   absence 
The  appeal  fails  on  this  point — the  only  point  taken   in   tha 
court  of  Requests  on  thp  motion    for   re-opening   judgment' 


COURT    OF     APPEAL    CASES.  101 


Mr  Samerewickrame,  howevei'.  laised  a   fresh  point   on   the        Schrader 

appellant's  behalf  at  the  argument  before  me.    He  contended         Joseph. 

—  aiid  this  point  is  taken  in  the   petition  of  appeal — that  the 

case  did  not  come  under  §  823  (3)  at  all,  but  that  under  §  82;! 

(2)  the  Commissioner  had  no  power   to  enter    judgment  on 

the  day  of  the  appellant's  default  and  that  the  appellant  had  the 

whole  of  the  day  of  default  on    which  to  excuse  his  absence- 

In  support  of  this  contention  Mr.  Samerewickrame    referred 

to    the   liecisioiis   of    Moncreiff  J.    in     Marikar  v.    Golomho 

M  vnin)a/    Council  '  and  of  Weiidt    J  in  Hadjkrr  v.   Kutvjie   - 

I  refer  this  case  to  a  Bench  of  two  judges  for  the  purpose  of 

haviiii;  the   decisions  above  referred  to  re-considered.  Apart 

from  authority,  the  meaning  of  §  823  of  the  Civil    Procedure 

Code  seems  to  me  to  be  clear.     The   cases   above  mentioned 

were  decided  under  §  823  (1),  which  defines    the  procedure 

on  default  of  the  appearance  of  the  plaintiff.     But  they  are, 

in  my  opinion,  equally  applicable  to  §823(2),   which   deals 

with  the  default  of  appearance  on  the  part  of   the  defendant 

§  823  (2)  provides  that  "  if   upon    the  day   specified    in    the 

"  summons  or  upon  any  day   fixed   for   the   hearing   of   the   • 

''  action,  the  defendant  shall  not  appear  or  sufficiently  excuse 

■•  his  absence,  the   Commissioner, 

"  may  enter  judgment  by  default  against  the  defendant.'! 
The  ratio  decidendi  of  the  two  decisions  on  which  Mr.  Samere- 
wickrame relied  was  that  the  language  of  the  section  gives  tbe 
defendant  the  whole  of  the  day  specified  in  the  summons  or 
fixed  for  the  hearing  of  the  action  for  the  purpose  of  appear- 
ing or  excusing  his  absence,  and  that  consequently  judgment 
cannot  be  entered  against  him  in  default  till  the  whole  of 
that  day  has  expired.  In  support  of  this  view,  reference  was 
made  to  §  823  (4)  which  provides  that  "if  upon  the  day 
"  specified  in  the  summons  or  upon  any  day  fixed  for  the 
"  hearing  of  the  action  neither  party  ;ippears  when  the  case 
"   is   called    on,    the   Commissioner   shall    enter   judgment 

i.    2  Browne  MO-  2.  (190S  1  A.  C  B.3. 


102  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Sclirader  V.  "  dismissing  the  plaintiff's  action  but  without  costs."  With 
the  greatest  respect  I  do  not  think  that  the  use  of  the  words 
"  when  the  case  is  cidled  on  "  in  clause  i  is  sufficient  to 
justify  the  highl3'  artificial  interpretation  placed  by  the 
decisions  iu  question  on  tlie  language  of  clause  1,  and  by 
necessary  inference  also  of  clause  2.  The  practical  results  of 
such  an  interpretation  of  the  law  would  be  most  seriops. ,  As 
we  all  know  there  is  a  wide  spread  carelessness  iu  this 
Colony,  on  the  part  both  of  litigants  and  of  theii  legal 
advisers,  in  the  Courts  of  first  instance  with  regard  to 
the  duty  of  being  present  and  ready  for  trial  when  their 
cases  come  on  for  hearing  in  the  ordinary  course  of  things. 
If  we  are  to  adopt  the  interpretation  of  §  823  (1)  and  (2) 
laid  down  in  the  cases  of  Marikar  v.  Colombo  Mnnicipal 
Council  ^  and  Hadjlar  v.  Kunjie  -,  Commissioners  of 
Peqnests  would  very  often  find  their  work  at  a  standstill. 
One  party  ov  other,  in  the  majority  of  the  cases  fixed  for  the 
day,  would  be-absent,  and  no  order  could  be  made  until 
the  follovving  day.  There  is  no  suggesdon  either  in  clause 
(1)  or  clause  {i)  of  §  823  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  of 
any  duty  being  imposed  upon  clie  Commissioner  to  stay  his 
hand  on  default  of  appearance  by  the  plaintiff'  in  the  one 
case,  or  by  the  defendant  in  the  other.  The  words  in  both 
clauses  "  shall  not  appear  or  sufficiently  excuse  his  absence  " 
clearly  point,  I  think,  to  default  in  appearance,  or  failure  to 
furnish  a  sufficient  excuse,  when  the  case  comes  on  for 
hearing,  and  the  words  "  may  enter  judgment  by 
"  default  against  the  defendant  "  in  clause  (2)  are  explained 
by  the  proviso  which  requires  the  Commissioner  in  land  cases, 
and  empowers  him  in  any  case  in  which  he  may  deem  it 
necessary  or  expedient,  to  hear  evidence  in  support  of  the 
plaintiff's  claim.  The  words  in  clause  (1)  "  the  plaintiff's 
action  may  be  dismissed"  are  equally  capable  of  explanation 
by  a  reference  to  the  proviso  "  that  if  the  defendant  when 
"called   upon    under  §   809  shall    admit    the    claim    of   the 

1.     3  Brov^ne   UO  -3    (190S)  1  A.  C.  B.  S. 


COUHT  OF  APPEAL  CASES  103 

"  plaintifl',  llie  commiswioner  shall  enter  judgment  for  the  Schraderx. 
'•  plaiutiff  according  to  law".  The  construction  of  § 
<S'2:5  which  I  am  venturing  to  suggest  as  a  correct  one,  on  the 
one  hand  prevents  t>e  work  of  Commissioners  of  Requests 
from  being  paralvseil  or  impeded  by  default  of  appearanCg 
on  the  part  of  plaintiffs  or  defendants,  and  on  the  other  hand 
works  no  hardship  or  injustice  to  any  litigant.  If  a  plaintiff 
or  defendant  is  unable  to  appear  on  the  daj-  fixed  for  the 
hearing  of  the  case— and  it  is  his  duty,  I  think,  whei-e  no 
special  hour  of  attendance  has  been  named,  to  Ije  ]iresent  in 
Court  on  any  such  day  from  the  time  when  the  Court  sits 
till  the  case  is  disposed  of — he  may  explain  his  absence 
before  judgment  is  given.  If,  owing  to  Lis  default,  judg- 
ment is  given  against  him,  he  may,  if  a  plaintiff,  apply  under 
clause  (5)  for  permission  to  institute  a  fresh  action,  and  if  a 
defendant,  move  under  clause  (3)  to  have  the  judgment 
against  him  opened.  I  have  thought  it  right  to  express  my 
opinion  on  the  important  question  of  practice  raised  by  Mr. 
Samerewickrame's  argument  in  appeal.  But,  as  I  have 
already  said,  I  hold  that  the  case  must  be  referred  to  two 
.Judges  in  order  that  it  may  be  decided.  As  I  have  myself 
formed  a  strong  opinion  on  the  point,  I  desire  to  take  no 
part  in  its  decisipn. 

■Sitoiereivkhrame  for  the  appellant. — The  ca^e  comes  under 
§  823  (3).  If  at  a  later  stage  of  the  day  thn  party  in  default 
excuses  his  absence  and  the  court  is  satisfied  it  will  hear  the 
case,  Marikar  r.  I'/ze  JJuiiici/jalGoimcil  of  Culvmlio  '  ■.  Iladjiar  t. 
KuHJiv.  '  The  words  "  sufficiently  excuse  his  absence  "  in  § 
832  (2)  contemplate  the  absence  of  the  party  at  some  point 
of  time  on  the  date  of  trial  which  he  is  enabled  to  excuse 
later.  The  object  of  fixing  another  tlay  under  §  823  (2)  for 
ex  parte  trial  is  to  afl'ord  an  opporturnity  to  the  party  in 
default  to  excuse  his  absence  during  the  whole  of  the  day. 
The  words  "when  the  case  is  called  on  for  hearing  "  which 
are  to  be  found  in  sub-section  4  are  not  to  be  found  in  sub-sect- 

1.    -2  Browne  240.  '2.     (1903)  ]  A.  C.  E.  3. 


104  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 

Schrader  V.    ion  2  (-herefure    the   latter   subsection  gives  the    parties'- the 
Joseph  ,     ,       „    , 

whole  of  the  day  to  appear. 

C.J.  Sansoiii  for    the    respondent  was   not   called  npon. 

The  following  are  the  arguments  of  counsel  for  the 
respondent  at    the  hearing  before  Wood  Ronton  J. 

Sansonifov  the  respondent. — "Snfficiently  excuse"  means 
excuse  by  letter  or  message  when  the  case  is  called  on  and 
before  order  by  default  is  made.  If  a  party  is  allowed  the 
whole  day  to  appear  then  he  will  have  no  default  or  absence 
to  "excuse"  till  the  next  day  and  parties  desiring  postpone- 
ments have  only  to  absent  themselves  till  the  last  working 
hour  of  the  day.  If  the  appellants  arguments  are  to  prevail 
there  would  be  two  orders  made  by  the  Judge  before  a 
judgment  by  default  is  finally  entered  up;  the  first  one  on 
the  day  after  the  trial  date,  and  tue  second  on  any  subsequent 
date  refu.iing  to  vacate  the    first. 

Lascelles  C' J- — This  has  been  referred  to  us  by  Mr. 
Justice  Wood  Eenton  in  view  of  the  decision  of  Moncreifif  J 
in  Ma'ikar  v.  The  Colombo  Municival  Council  '  which  was 
followed  by  Wendt  J.  in  Hadjiar  v.  Kuiijie  '-. 

The  point  referred  to  us  turns  on  the  construction  of 
§  823  (2)  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  raises  the 
question  as  to  the  exact  point  of  time  at  which  a  defendant, 
who  fails  to  iippear  in  a  Court  of  Requests,  is  liable  to  have 
judgment  entered  against  him  by  default.  The  material 
words  of  §  82:3  (2)  ate  the  following  :  —  "  If  upon  the 
"the  day  specitied  in  the  section  or  upon  any  day  fixed  for 
''  the  bearing  of  the  action  the  defendant  shall  not  appear  or 
"  sufficiently  excuse  his  absence,  the  Commissioner,  upon  due 
"  proof  of  services  of  summons,  notice,  or  order  requiring 
'' sneh  appearance  may  enter  judgment  by  default  against 
•'  the  defendant."  Then  follows  a  proviso  that  in  laud  cases 
1,    J  Browne  :.'4u.  i\     (1903)  1  A.  0.  B.  o 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  l05 

tincl  in  other   cases   in    which  the   commissioner   lieems  it    Sohrader  v. 

Joseph 
necessary    or   expedient   to    hear   evidence   in   support  ot  a 

plaintiff's  claim  he  shall  order  him  to  adduce  such  evidence  ^^*f^  ®^ 

on  a  day  to  be  fixed  for  that  purpose. 

The  construction  of  sub-section  (1)  which  relates  to  a 
default  nf  appearance  on  the  part  of  the  plaintiff  and  is 
expressed  in  language  which  is  almost  identical  with  sub- 
section (2)  was  considered  in  the  two  above  mentioned 
cases.  There  it  was  held  that  the  plaintiff  had  the  whole  of 
the  day  fixed  for  his  appearance  within  which  to  appear  so 
that  his  action  could  not  be  dismissed  until  the  expiration 
of  that  day.  There  can  be  no  question  bu*  that  the  decisions 
under  sub-sections  (1)  are  equally  applicable  to  section  (2) 
so  that  the  practical  question  for  determination  is  whether 
the  construction  there  laid  down  is  correct  and  ought  to  be 
followe<l.  Reading  the  section  as  a  whole,  and  without 
reference  to  authorities,  1  should  have  had  no  doubt  but  that 
the   words   "If    ujjon    the   day   specified  in    the    summons 

" the  defendant  shall  not  appear 

"or  sufficiently  excuse  his. absence. ...  "  refer  to  default  at 
the  time,  if  any,  at  which  the  defendant  was  required  to 
attend  and,  if  no  time  was  fixed,  to  the  time  when  the  case 
is  called  on  for  hearing.  The  section  refers  to  default  on 
the  part  of  the  defendant  in  doing  something  which  he 
ought  to  do  and  there  can  be  no, doubt  but  that  it  is  the  duty 
of  the  defendant,  in  the  absence  of  any  rule  of  procedure  to 
the  contrary,  to  appear  either  at  the  time  the  case  is  fixed 
for  hearing  or  when  the  case  is  called  on.  The  practical 
inconvenience  which  would  result  from  the  construction  of 
the  section  laid  down  in  the  two  above  mentioned  cases  has 
been  clearly  set  out  in  the  judgment  of  my  brother  "Wood 
Rentou.  It  is  so  great  as  to  render  it  almost  impossible  for 
.Commissioners  of  Requests  to  dispose  of  their  cause  lists  in 
a  prompt  and  business  like  manner.' 

The  ratw  (Ucidendi.  in  these  .two  cases  appears  to  hare 
been  the  diflEerence  between  the  language  etoployed   in  sub- 


106  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES, 

SchradevT.  sections  (I)  and  (2)  relating  respectively  to  defaalt  on  the 
Joseph  ^^^^^  ^^^  ^j^^  phiintiiT  and  defendant  and  sub-section  (4) 
Lascellee  i.^lating  to  tlie  case  where  neither  party  appears.  The 
language  employed  in  the  latter  section  is  "  ii:  upon  the  day 
"specified  in  the  sunnuuns  or  upon  any  day  fixed  for  hearing 
"  of  the  action  neither  party  appears  irlieii  the  cane  is  rnlleil  on 
''tlie  commissioner  shall  enter  judgment  dismissing  the 
•'  plaintiff's  action  but  without  costs".  From  the  presence 
of  the  words  "when  the  case  is  called  on  "'  in  sub-section  (4) 
and  from  their  absence  in  sub-sections  (1)  and  (2)  it  is  argued 
that  the  default  referred  to  in  the  last  two  sections  does  not 
mean  failure  to  appear  when  the  case  is  called  on.  The 
difference  between  the  wording  of  sub-section  (4)  and 
sub-sections  (2)  and  (S)  is  noticeable  and  difficult  to  account 
for,  but  I  do  not  think  that  it  could  be  fairly  inferred  from 
this  diffBrence  of  phraseology  that  it  was  the  intention  of 
the  Legislature  to  introduce  a  rule  which,  as  my  brother 
Wood  RentoJi  has  nointed  out,  is  inconvenient,  impracticable 
and  contrary  to  the  recognised  lines  of  legal  procedure 
Every  other  consideration  appears  to  me  to  tell  in  favour  of 
he  construction  of  the  section  being  so  construed  that  if  a 
plaintiff  fails  to  appear  at  the  proper  time,  namely,  at  the 
hour  fixed  for  trial  or  when  the  case  is  called  on,  his  action 
is  liable  to  be  dismissed  subject  to  his  right  under  sub- 
section (5)  to  institute  a  fresh  action  if  he  satisfies  the 
commissioner  that  he  was  prevented  from  appearing  from 
accident,  misfortune  or  other  unavoidable  cause  ;  and  in  the 
same  way  thai  a  defendant  is  liable  to  have  judgment 
entered  by  default  against  him  if  he  does  not  appear  at  the 
appointed  time  or  when  the  case  is  called  on  subject  to  his 
rights  under  sub-section  (3)  to  have  the  judgment  set  aside 
on  satisfying  the  commissioner  that  he  was  prevented  from 
attending  by  similar  unavoidable  cause.  It  is  a  sound 
principle  of  construction  that,  in  all  cases  open  to  doubt,  the 
intention  which  is  most  argeeable  to  convenience  and 
established  legal  principles  should  he  presumed  to  be  the 
true  one.     I  do  not  think  that  the  words  "  sufficiently  excuse 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  107 

"  his  absence  "  in  sub-sections  (1)  and  (2)  stand  in  the   way    Schrader  v, 

Joseph 
of  this  construction  of  the  section,  for  it  is  quite  possible  for 

a  plaintiff  or  defendant,  who  is  prevented  from  attending  ))y  «'*«'"«•■  J- 

some  unavoidable  cause,  to  bring   the  fact    to    the| notice  of 

the  commissioner  either  before,  at,  or  immediately  after  the 

time  when  the  case  is  called  on. 

With  the  greatest  respect  for  the  learned  Judges  who 
decided  Mw/car  v.  The  Colombo  Municipal  Council'^  and  Suijiar 
V.  Kimjie,'^  I  am  unable,  for  the  above  reasons,  to  adopt  their 
reading  of  the  section  under  consideration  which  I  think 
has  been  correctly  expounded  by  my  brother  Wood  Renton 
with  whom  I  agree  that  the  appeal  in  this  case  ought  to  be 
dismissed  with  costs. 

Grenier  J. — I  entirely  agree  with  my  Lord  and  my 
brother  Wood  Renton  in  the  construction  they  have  placed 
upon  §  823  (2)  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Coile.  At  the 
argument  1  think  I  expressed  myself  sti-ongly  in  favour  of 
such  a  construction,  and  I  have  had  no  reason  since  to  change 
my  opinion.  If  the  construction  relied  upon  for  the 
appellant  were  to  be  adopted,  it  would  be  very  difficult,  if 
not  thoroughly  impracticable,  to  cari'y  on  the  work  in 
Courts  of  Requests.     I  would  dismiss^the  appeal  with  costs. 

Apjieal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  Appellant — T.  .!/.  Fernando. 

Proctor  for  Respondent — S.  C.  Sanson/.. 

1.     3  Browne  S40.    S.  UVUS)    lA.C.E.S. 


108  court   of   appeal   cases. 

vellasamypulle  v.  the  uplands  tea  estates 

OF  CEYLON  Ltd. 
No.  21178  D.C.  Kancly. 

Present :  Lascelles  C.J.  and  Greniep  J. 

29ch  February   1912. 

Stump  (1  (if  11 —du i Ills:  iiti-niii-rntiiin  and  ri ainri'iiNiiii. — ai/ffrei/ati;  ammnd 
— pi'iirtira  of  Coiirt-i. 

Where  in  an  action  the  defendant  sets  up  a  claim  in  reconvention  tlie 
stamp  duty  leviable  is  calcnlated  upon  the  value  of  the  claim  in  eonveiitiou 
or  reconvention  whichever  happens  to  be  the  larger,  and  not  on  the  aggre- 
gate amount  of  both  the  claims. 

In  this  case  tlie  plaintiff  sued  the  defendants  for  the 
recovery  of  a  smn  of  Rs,  27,686.  81.  The  defendants  claimed 
a  sum  of  Rs.  21,4l2.  62  in  reconvention.  Their  proxy  was 
stamped  according  to  the  value  of  the  plaintiffs  claim  that 
being  larger  than  the  claim  in  reconvention.  The  District 
•  Judge  held  that  the  proxy  was  insufliciently  stamped  and  he 
ordered  the  defendants  to  pay  extra  stamp  duty  on  their  claim 
in  reconvention.     The  defendants  appealed. 

Elliot  for  the  defendants-appellants. — It  is  never  the 
practice  of  the  Courts  to  stamp  the  pleadings  on  theaggreg.ite 
value  of  the  claims  in  convention  and  reconvention.  The 
practice  is  to  levy  stamp  iluty  on  the  larger  of  the  claims. 

Waller  Pereira  K.C,  S-G.  for  the  Crown.— A  claim  in 
reconvention  has  the  same  effect  as  a  plaint  in  a  cross  action 
Civ.  Pro:  Code  §  75  (e).  This  is  not  a  set  off  which  miiy 
not  require  stamp  duty,  see  Polhier  bk.  3  chap,  IV  §  3. 

Elliot  in  reply.— Th'.s  is  only  an  answer  according  to  the 
schedule  to  the  stamp  Ordinance  No.  22  of  1909,  It  cannot 
be  said  to  be  a  plaint  and  answer  at  the  same  time. 

!■.  a.  V. 

Grenier  J. — The  appeal  in  this  case  is  an  ex  parte  one, 
and  has  been  taken  from  an  order  made  l)y  the  District 
Judge  on  the  13th  October,  19 LI,  in  which  he  held  that  the 
proxy  granted  by  the  appellants  to  Mr.  J.  D.  Jonklaas  to 
appearand  defend  in  the  action  was  insufficiently    stamped- 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  109 

The  District  Judge  was  of  opinion  as  expressed  in  his  letter  Vellasamy- 
to  the  Registrar  of  this  Court  that  the  reason  for  his  requiring  The'uplands 
the  defendants  to  pay  extra  stamp  duty  on  their  proxy  was  Tea  Estates 
because  they  claimed  in  reconvention  a  sum  of   Rs  2l,412-t!l  [ 

and  interest  so  that  the  subject  matter  in  dispute  was 
enhanced  by  that  amount.  From  the  proxy  given  by  the 
appellants  to  Mr.  .Tonklaas  I  find  that  the  claim  in  reconvent- 
ion amounts  to  the  sum  <if  Iis.  21,412-61  and  interest.  The 
District  Judge  has  lumped  together  this  sum  and  the  sum 
claimed  in  convention,  namely  Rs.  27,68'3'SJ:  and  lias  ordered 
the  appellants  to  stamp  their  proxy  for  the  aggregate  amount 
namely  Rs.  49,099-4.5.  In  my  opinion  the  order  is  wrong. 
The  practice  in  the  District  Court  of  Colombo  is  to  levy  a 
stamp  duty  on  the  claim  in  reconvention,  if,  as  it  stands,  it 
is  in  excess  of  the  claim  in  convention,  and  not  on  the 
aggregate  amount.  That  seems  to  be  the  right  principle  to 
adopt  in  cases  of  this  kind.  The  order  appealed  from  must 
be  set  aside,  and  tlie  case  sent  back  for  proceedings  in  due 
course.     There  will  be  no  costs  of  this  appeal. 

Lascelles  O.J.— I   agree   with   the  judgment    of   my 
brother  Grenier.  Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellants — J.  D.  Jonklaas 


FULL    BENCH. 

KANEPATHIPILLAI    v.  MOHAMMADUTAMRY 
LEVVAI  et.   al. 

No.  3H98,  D.  C.  Batticaloa. 

Frearnf :  Lascolles  C.  J.,    Middleton 

Wood  Ronton  &GrenienJ.J, 

10th  March.   1912. 

Ragistration—  Prhrifji — Deed  of  clorMtiim—Dced  for  valuable  con- 
sidcfution—'Regidvathiii  Ordinancr  No.  14  of  1S91,  §  17. 

A  deed  of  donation  which  is  prior  in  date  to  h  deed  for  valuable 
consideration  but  .is  registered  after  the  registration  of  the  latter  deed  is 
void  as  against  the  latter. 


no  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Kanepathi-  Per  LascdUx  C.J.     The  Registration  ordinance  it  was    urged    was  not 

pillai  V-  intended  to  and  does  not  convert  into  valid  con\  eyances  instruments  whicli 
MoIiamniadu-^,.g  ^g^.  ,,g  inoperative.  But  this  is  precisely  what  the  ordinance  does  in  the 
Levvai  majority  of  cases  where  the  competition  is  between  two  deeds  derived  from 
the  same  source  of  title.  The  prior  unregistered  deed  is  deemed  void  as 
against  the  parties  claiming  an  adverse  interest  under  a  subsequent  register- 
ed deed  for  valuable  consideration.  The  natural  and  inevitable  consequence 
of  this  process  is  that  instruments  which  would  otherwise  have  been  in. 
operative  to  pass  title  are  clothed  with  validity.  The  principle  con  hajdly 
be  better  put  than  by  Mr.  .Justice  Clarence  in  Silra  i\  Siinihumi/  i 
'"where  an  owner  of  land  conveys  it  to  A  for  value  and  subsequently 
executes  another  conveyance  of  the  same  land  in  favour  of  B  also  for  value 
it  is  true  at  the  date  of  the  second  conveyance  the  owner  has  nothing  left 
in  him  to  convey.  But  by  the  operation  of  the  ordinance  B's  conveyance 
overrides  A's  if  registered  before  it.  Unless  the  ordinance  has  this  effect,  it 
has  none  at  all,  and  this  seems  the  actual  construction  of  the  enactment." 

Where  a  deed  under  which  a  person  claims  title  is  registered  it  is 
immaterial  that  the  earlier  deeds  forming  links  in  the  title  have  not  been 
registered. 

Pen.9  c.  Perera  2  followed. 


The  facts  material  to  this  case  ai-e  set  out  as  follows  in 
the  judgment  of  Lascelles  C.  J  :  "The  land  which  is  the 
subject  matter  of  this  action  belonged  to  one  Paremecatty 
Sastry  who  by  deed  P^  dated  the  26th  December,  1899  and 
registered  the  28th  November,  1910  donated  tlie  land  to  one 
Sinneppillai,  who  by  deed  P^  datod  7th  December,  1910  and 
registered  on  the  15th  of  the  same  montli  sold  it  to  the 
plaintiff.  Meanwhile  Sastry  by  a  deed  of  the  1st  December, 
1905,  purported  to  revoke  the  donation  in  favour  of 
Sinneppillai,  but  it  is  conceded  that  that  deed  was  inoperative 
for  that  purpose. 

Sastry  by  doed  P»  dated  the  14th  Novembei',  1906, 
eonveyed  tlie  land  to  Kadramtaamby  who  by  deed  P*  also 
dated  Idth  November,  1906,  re-conveyed  the  property  to  Sastry 
who  by  deed  D^  dated  30th,  Novembei'  1909,  and  i-eyistered 
the  20th  December  of  that  year  conveyed  to  the  2nd  and  3rd 
defendants  who  are  the  present  appellants.  The  question 
referred  to  us  is  that  formulated  by  the  first  issue  in  the 
following  terms: — 

1      Wendt's   reports  S8S.  S    (1906)  JO  N.L.B- 38. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  Ill 

1.     Whether  deed  No.  7.-]i)  ol  :}()th  November  1909  in  Kanepathi- 
favour  of  2iid  and  3rd  Defendants  has  priority  over     P'"^'  ^ 
deed  No.  2103  of  2fith  December    1899  in  farour  of'^°  t^°^7"- 
SinneppiUui  by  reason  of  resisti'ation."  Levvai. 

Tiie  District  Judge  held  in  f  ivnur  of  the  plaintiff  and 
tlio  defendants  appealed. 

Ti^sevfirosinfihe  for  the  appellants. — The  learned  District 
Judge  was  wfong  in  relying  on  the  case  of  Kanapalhipillai 
V.  Kannarhij  '.  That  case  must  be  read  with  the  judgments 
in  Klrihnmi/  v.  Kirlhandu  -  and  Aserapfia  v.  Weeratmigp  ef.  al.  '. 
In  Kiri/urmi/  o.  Kinbanda  -'  it  was  lield  that  Icnowledge  of  the 
existence  of  a  prior  unregistered  deed  is  not  sufficient  to 
deprive  a  pei'son  of  the  right  to  gain  priority  bj"  prior 
registfation  of  a  subsequent  deed.  The  case  of  Silva  v. 
Saroham//*  concludes  the  point  in  my  favour.  Counsel  also 
cited  G.  R.  Galle  166;  '  I\ii/ia/ia/hipillai  *.  Vdvppinai  *  : 
Hamldu  v.  Natchia  ' . 

E.  A.  Jayevarikne  (with  J.  W.  de  Silva  and  Conraij) 
for  the  respondent. — Nothing  passed  to  the  appellants  under 
their  deeds  as  Sastry  had  already  divested  himself  of  title 
bj'  the  donation  to  Sinneppillai  before  he  executed  the 
transfer  in  favour  of  Kadramatamby.  Registration  would 
not  create  title  where  there  was  no  title  at  all.  The  conflict 
is  not  between  the  deed  of  donation  and  D^  the  deed  upon 
which  the  defendants  claim ;  it  is  between  the  deed  of 
donation  and  Kadramatamby's  deed.  The  latter  was  not 
registered  and  therefore  the  donation  must  prevail.  [Lascelles 
C.  J,  would  not  the  oase  of  Peris  v.  Perera  « cure  the  defect?] 
It  would  not;  had  Kadramatamby  sola  to  a  third  person 
then  that  principle  would  apply.  The  competition  is  not 
between  two  deeds  derived  from  the  same  source.  Counsel 
also  cited  Silva  v-  Gomes  "  and  Kadravdu  v.  Perera  ^^ 

Tiitseveresinghe  in  reply.  c.  «.  v, 

(1)     (1910)  13  N.L.B.  16G.  3.    (1911)  U  N-L.B.  417. 

S.     (1911)  UJSf.LM.S84.  4.     Wendt'sBepm-tsSgS. 

5.     (1873)  S  Qrenier  C.B.  6.         C.     (1887)  8  S.C.C.  111. 

7.    (189S)S.C.L.B.S'j;.  S.     (1906)  10 N.L.B.  38 

S.     (1909)   I  Cur.  L,B.  96.  10.     (1889)  9.  S.C.C.  36. 


112  COURT     OF     APPEAL     OASES. 

Kanepathi-  Lascelles  C  J.—   This  appeal  has  been   referred  to  a 

MoMmmldu-'Full  Bench  foi-  decision, 
tamby 

The  hind,   which  is  the   subject  matter   of   this   action, 

Lascelles,  belonged  to  one  Paremecutty  Sastry,  who  by  deed  P^   dattd 

the  26th  December  1899  and   registered  the  28th   November 

1910,  donated  thf  land  to  one    Sinnepillai,  who  by   deed  P' 

dated  7th  December  1910  and  registered  on  tlae  15th  of  the 

same  month  sold  it  to  the  plaintiff.     Meanwhile  Sastry  by  a 

deed   of   the  1st    December    1905    purported  to   revoke  the 

donation  in  favour  of  Sinnepillai,  but  it  is  conceded  that  that 

deed  was  inoperative  for  that  purpose. 

Sastry,  by  deed  P^  dated  the  14th  November  1906 
conveyed  the  land  to  Kadramatamby  who  by  deed  P*  also 
dated  14th  November  1906  re-conveyed  the  property  to  Sastry, 
who  by  deedD'  dated  the  30th  November  1909  and  registerec^ 
the  20th  December  of  that  year  conveyed  to  the  2nd  and  3rd 
defendants,  who  are  the  present  appellants.  The  question 
referred  to  us  is  that  formulated  by  the  first  issue  in  the 
following  terms  : — 

«  1.  "Whether  deed  No.  730  of  30th  November  1909  in 
favour  of  2nd  and  3rd  defendants  has  priority  over 
deed  No.  2103  of  26th  December  1899  in  favour  of 
Sinnepillai  by  reason  of  registration." 

In  view  of  the  terms  of  §  17  of  the  Land  Registration 
Ordinance  1891  and  the  numerous  decisions  of  this  Oourt 
thereon  I  confess  that  the  point  reserved  tor  consideration 
does  not  pi'esent  any  particular  difBculty  to  me. 

The  competing  deeds,  as  stated  in  the  1st  issue,  are,  on 
the  one  side,  the  appellants'  deed  D^  dated  the  30th  November 
1909,  and  registered  on  the  20th  December  1909,  and,  on  the] 
other  side,  the  donation  P^  to  Sinnepillai  dated  26th 
December,  1899,  and  registered  on  the  28th  November,  1910. 
Of  these  the  former  deed,  though  later   in  date,  is  prior  in 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  113 

reg;iBtration  it  is  a  deed  for  valuable  consideration  and  there  Kanepathi 

is  no  question   of  fraud  or  collusion.     It  f oUov/s,  therefore,  Mohammadu 

that  the  competing  deed  P^  must  be  deemed  void  as  aeainst     ''''"''y 
■^         °  °  Levvai 

the  appellants  who  claim  an  adverse  interest  under  the  deed 
D'.  Mr.  Hector  Jayewardene,  who  argued  the  case  for  the  Lascelle* 
respondent  with  much  ingenuity,  advanced  an  argument 
which  is  frequently  put  forward  with  some  appearance  of 
plausibility  in  cases  of  this  description.  Sastry,  he  contended, 
when  he  conveyed  to  the  defendants,  had  previously  divested 
himself  of  title  by  his  donation  to  Sinnepillai,  so  that  noth- 
ing passed  by  his  conveyance  to  the  defendants. 

The  Registration  Ordinance,  it  was  urged,  was  not 
intended  to,  and  does  not  convert  into  valid  conveyances 
instruments  which  are  per  se  inoperative.  But  this  is 
precisely  what  the  Ordinance  does  in  the  majority  of  cases 
where  the  competition  is  between  two  deeds  derived  from 
the  same  source  of  title.  The  prior  unregistered  deed  is 
deemed  void  as  against  the  parties  claiming  an  adverse 
interest  under  a  subsequent  registered  deed  for  valuable 
consideration.  The  natural  and  inevitable  consequence  of 
this  process  is  that  instruments  which  would  otherwise 
have  been  inoperative  to  pass  title  are  clothed  with  validity 
The  principle  can  hardly  be  better  put  than  by  Mr.  Justice 
Clarence    in    Silva   v.     Sarohamy  ^ 

"When  an  owner  of  land  conveys  it  to  A  forjValue  and 
subsequently  executes  another  conveyance  of  the  same  land 
in  favour  of  B  also  for  value,  it  is  true  at  the  date  of  the 
second  conveyance  the  owner  has  nothing  left  in  him  to 
convey,  but  by  the  operation  of  the  Ordinance,  B's  conveyance 
overrides  A's,  if  registered  before  it.  Unless  the  Ordinance 
has  this  effect,  it  has  none  at  all,  and  this  seems  the  actual 
construction  of  the  enactment." 

-This  point  is  also  clearly  dealt  with  by   Creasy   C.  J,  as 
far  back  as  1873  m,  C.  B.  Qalle  151  ^  .■    _ 

1.     Wendt's  Reports  p.  S83.        5     ?  Greniev  p.  5. 


114  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

Kanepathi-  Mr.   Jayewardene   also  contended     that   the  true  com- 

Mohamma'du-petition  was  not  between  the  deeds  D  i  and  P  ^  but  between 

tamby     j-jjg   conveyance  to  Kadramatamby  and  the  latter  deed.  With 
Levvai 

regard  to  this  contention  it   is   to  be   observed   in   the    firsj- 

Lasce  es,  pj^^gg  j-j^^j.  ^^  jg  outside  the  issue  on  which  the  parties  went 
to  trial,  which  was  as  regards  the  relative  priority  of  deeds 
D  1^  and  P  -  But  the  contention  in  my  opinion  is  not  sound. 
The  adverse  interest  which  the  appellants  claim  is 
obviously  in  virtue  of  their  own  deed  D  '  and  they  are 
entitled  by  the  terms  of  §  17  to  have  the  benefit  of  the  prior 
registration  of  the  deed.  The  non-registration  of  the  convey- 
ance by  Sastry  to  Kadramatamby  is  not  material,  for  in  Peris 
V.  Ferera  '^  it  was  held  that  where  a  deed  under  which  a 
person  claimed  title  is  registered,  it  is  immaterial  that 
earlier  deeds  forming  links  in  the  title  have  not  been  regis- 
tered. Then  it  was  urged  that  the  appellants  must  be  taken 
to  have  derived  their  title  nnt  from  Sastry,  but  from 
Kadramatamby  so  that  the  competition  is  not  between  two 
deeds  derived  from  the  sain'^  source.  This  view  is,  in  my 
opinion,  quite  fallacious.  Kadramatamby  had  no  title  save 
that  which  he  derived  from  Sastry  :  it  is  true  Sastry's  deed  to 
Kadramatamby  at  the  time  did  not  pass  title  :  it  was  in- 
effective until  the  registration  of  the  appellant's  deed  placed 
them  in  a  position  ot  priority  over  the  claimants  under  the 
donation  to  Sinnapillai.  The  case  of  Eanapathipillaiv, 
KannarM  -  was  relied  on  by  the  learned  District  Judge  as 
an  authority  for  his  ruling  that  the  prior  registration  of  the 
defendant's  deeds  did  not  give  them  priority  of  title.  But 
this  case  really  turned  upon  the  question  of  notice,  and  on 
that  point  it  must  be  read  in  connexion  with  the  subsequent 
judgment  of  this  Court  in  Aserappa  v.  Weoratunga  et  al.  ^ 
In  my  opinion  the  appeal  should  be  allowed  and  the 
iictiou  dismissed   with  coats  here  and   in    the    Court   below. 

Middleton  J.     In  my  opinion  the  point  in  this  case  is 

covered  by  authority  and  I  do  not  think  it  necessary  to  add 

:     0006)  10  N.L.B.  SS  2.  (19i0)  is  S^'.L.B.  166. 

o  {1-911)14  IV.L.B.  2Sl 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  115 

anything  to  the  judgment  of  my  Lord  which  J  have  had  the  Kanepathi- 

pillai  V 

privilege  of   perusing  and   with   which    I  entirely  concnr.Mohammadu- 

tamby 
LevTat. 

Wood  Renton  J. — This  case  was  argued  before  my 
brother  Grenier  and  myself  on  9th  October,  1911.  At  the  Middleton 
close  of  the  argument  we  sent  it  back  to  the  District  Court  for  Wood 
further  evidence  and  any  expression  of  opinion  that  the 
learned  District  Judge  desired  to  offer  on  the  original  and 
further  evidence  as  to  whether  or  not  the  plaintiff  respon- 
dent had  established  title  by  prescription.  The  District 
judge  has  recorded  the  further  evidence  placed  before  him 
bj'  the  parties,  and  has  expressed  this  opinion  that  the 
plaintiff  respondent  has  not  established  title  by  prescription. 
The  appeal  was  argued  again  on  29th.  February,  and  now 
comes  before  the  Fall  Court  for  final  adjudication.  The 
appellant's  counsel  is,  of  course,  quite  satisfied  with  the 
view  taken  by  the  District  Judge  on  the  issue  as  to 
prescription.  The  respondent's  counsel  did  not  challenge 
it,  and  I  see  no  reason  to  think   that  it   is   wrong. 

The  case  as  presented  by  Mr.  Cooray  to  my  brother 
Grenier  and  myself  at  the  recent  argument  had  to  be  decided 
on  the  following  simple  facts.  The  action  is  one  brought 
by  the  respondent  against  the  appellants  and  others  for  a 
partition  of  a  land  yalled  Kallady  Kandam.  Of  this  land 
the  respondent  claims  an  undivided  3  acres  under  the  follow- 
ing title.  These  3  acres  originally  belonged  to  Paremecutty. 
Sastry.  By  donation  deed  P  ^  dated  26th  December,  1899, 
and  registered  on  28th  November,  1910,  by  the  respondent, 
Paremecutty  Sastry  donated  the  3  acres  in  question  to  a 
woman  Sinnepillai  who  sold  them  to  the  respondent  by  deed 
P  *  dated  7th  December,  and  registered  15th  December,  1910, 
Paremecutty  Sastry  had  purported  to  revoke  the  donation 
in  favour  of  Sinnepillai  by  deed  No.  184  dated  1st 
December  1905.  It  was  held,  however,  by  the  District 
Judge— and  his  finding  on  this  point  has  not  been  con- 
tested— on     the     authority     of  the  case  of  Kanapathipillai 


116  COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES. 

-  ^■p^lj^j'y '"  'A  Kannachi  '  that  that  deed  of  revocation,  not  having 
Mohammadu-been  effected  through  the  Court,  was  void.  Paremecutty 
Levvai  Sastry,  however,  subsequently  to  the  date  of  revocation 
Wood  nii'iisly  by  deed  D  '  dated  30th  November,  and  registered 
Renton  J.  on  20th  December,  1909,  sold  the  3  acres  in  dispute  to  the 
2nd  and  3rd  defendants  appellants.  At  the  date  of  that  sale 
he  had  divested  himself  of  his  title  to  the  property  in  quest- 
tion.  But  the  appellant's  deed  is  prior  in  the  date  of  its 
registration  to  both  the  donation  deed  in  favour  of  Sinne- 
pillai  and  her  transfer  deed  in  favour  of  the  respondent. 
The  question  that  we  had  to  decide  was  whether,  in  spite 
of  the  fact  that,  at  the  date  of  his  deed  of  transfer  to  the 
appellants,  Paremecutty  Sastry  had  no  title  to  the  property 
disposed  of  by  that  deed,  it  acquired  priority  by  virtue  of  its 
prior  registration  over  the  deed  of  donation  to  Sinnepillai 
and  her  deed  of  transfer  to  the  respondent.  It  appears  to 
me  that  on  the  authorities  we  are  bound  to  answer  this 
question  in  the  affirmative.  We  ai-e  not  called  upon  here  to 
inquire  what  the  legal  position  would  be  if  the  subsequent 
purchaser  had  derived  his  title  from  a  Fiscal's  conveyance, 
which,  in  terms,  passes  only  the  right,  title,  and  interest  of 
the  judgment  debtor.  We  are  in  presence  of  a  conveyance 
purporting  to  pass  a  clean  title  to  purchasers  for  value  and 
without  notice.  The  cases  of  C.  B.  Oalle  161  ^,  Silva  v. 
Sarahamy  ^  and  the  language  of  Dias  J.  and  Clarence  J. 
in  Ccmavadipillai  v.  VehippiUai  *,  a  decision  of  the  Full 
Bench  as  then  constituted,  seem  to  me  to  be  binding  authori- 
ties in  favour  of  this  view,  and  I  think  that  they  are  sound 
in  principle. 

At  the  argument  before  the  Full  Court,  Mr,  Hector 
Jayewardene  raised,  and  argued  with  very  great  ability,  a 
fresh  point  on  the  following  additional  evidence.  After  the 
1  evocation   of   the   deed   of   donation,    Paremecutty    Sastry 

/      (1910)  IS  N.LM.  166.        S  {1873)2  Orenier  O.B  6. 
3  {1883)  Wendt38S,S8J,.  4  {1887)8  8.0.0.  111. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES  117 

transferred    the    land    in    suit    to    one    Kadramatamby    by  Kanepathi- 
deed  No.   467,    dated  4th   November,  19G6.     On  the   samfiMQ^amiiiadu- 
day  he  tools  a  re-transfer  of   the  land  by  deed  No.  .468.     In     ^amby 
his     transfer   to    the    appellants,   he   recited    this  deed   of 
re-transfer.     Neither  of  these  intermediate  deeds  was  register-     Wood 
ed.     Mr.   Jayewardene    argued  that,     by   his    transfer    to 
Kadramatamby,      Paremecutty      Sastry    extinguished      his 
original  title,  that  by    the   deed   of  re-transfer  he  started   a 
new   title   in  himself   of   which    Kadramatamby    was    the 
source,  that  this   was  .  the  title   which   he   con-veyed  to   the 
appellants,  that  it  was  not   adverse  to  the  interest  acquired 
by  the  respondent  from  Sinne   Pillai,  and  that  consequently 
it  could    not  acquire    bj-  I'egistration    priority  over  the   res- 
pondent's deed  from  Sinne  Pillai. 

It  must  be  observed  that  in  his  deed  in  favour  of  the 
appellants,  Paremecutty  Sastry  does  not  convey  solely  on  his 
deed  from  Kadramatamby,  He  sets  out  his  original  title 
and  mentions  the  deed  of  re-transfer  merely  as  a  link  in 
that  title.  I  am  unable  to  accept  the  view  that  any  break 
in  the  chain  of  title  was  effected  by  the  intermediate  un, 
registered  deeds  Paremecutty  Sastry  conveyed  no  title  to 
Kadramatamby,  Kadramatamby  re-conveyed  no  title 
The  source  of  the  appellants'  title  was  Paremecutty  Sastry 
himself.  The  intermediate  deeds  were  mere  links  in  the 
chain  of  title  from  him.  That  being  so,  by  virtue  of 
section  17  of  Ordinance  No.  14  of  1891  (and  see  Peris  v. 
Perera  ^  ),  the  prior  registration  of  the  appellants'  deed 
wiped  out  the  intermediate  unregistered  deeds,  and  the 
title  derived  by  the  respondent  from  Sinne  Pillai  on  a  deed 
of  later  registration,  and  clothed  with  legal  force,  as  against 
the  respondent,  Paremecutty  Sastry 's  deed  in  favour  of  the 
appellants,  although  at  the  date  of  the  execution  of  that 
deed  Paremecutty  Sastry  had  no  title  to  convey.  Unless 
§  17  of  Ordinance  No.  14  of  1891  is  interpreted  in  this 
way,  I  do  not  see  how  effect  can  be  given  to  its  language 
and  intention  at  all. 

1.    (1906)  10  N.  L.  B.  33. 


ll^  COURT    OF    APPEAJ.    CASES. 

Kanepathi-  I  would  set  aside  the  decree  under  appeal   and  direct 

Mohammadu-ttat   the  plaintiff-respondent's   action   should   be  dismissed 
Levviu     with  all  costs  of  the  action  and  of  the  appeal. 

QrenierJ.  Grenier  J. — I  agree  with  the   rest   of  the  Caurt,   but 

I  should  like  to  add  a  few  words  in  regard  to  my 
judgment  in  the  case  of  Kanapathipillai  v.  Kannachi,^ 
which  the  learned  District  Judge  proposed  to  follow 
in  deciding  the  present  case.  The  question  there  that  I 
discussed,  was  as  to  the  effect  of  notice,  and  I  expressed  my 
opinion  that  a  person  who  has  actual  notice  of  the  existence 
of  an  instrument  cannot  get  priority  over  it  through  the 
medium  of  the  Registration  Ordinance,  as  the  attempt  to 
obtain  such  priority  amounted  to  fraud  under  the  proviso 
to  §  17  of  Ordinance  No.  14  of  1891.  In  saying  so 
I  followed  the  judgment  of  the  Privy  Council  in  CrowUy  v, 
Bergthcil — See  Jayeivardent's  Law  of  Mortgage  p.  84.  I 
expressed  no  decided  opinion  on  the  question  of  registra- 
tion, nor  did  I  hold  any  thing  definitely  on  the  point, 
although  I  held  in  effect  that  the  Commissioner  was  wrong 
in  deciding  the  question  of  registration  in  the  way  he  did 
on  the  materials  before  him.  * 

Decree  set  aside  and  plaintiff'' s  action,  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  Appellant — J.  A.  Setulcavaler. 
Proctor  for  Respondent — J.  Kadramatamhy. 


I.    (1910)  IS  N.  L.  B.  166. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES-  119 

SILVA  V.  MARIKAR. 

No.  5776  D.  C.  Negombo. 

Present :  Lascelies  C.  d.  &  Qrenier  J, 

9th  February  1912. 

Civil  Procedure  Code  §§  'J41  and  21fl — claim  to  property  seized — 
itiijiiiri/ — absence  of  claimant — dismissal  of  claim — vacating  order 
of  dismissal — Consent  of  parties. 

An  order  dismissing  a  claim  to  property  seized  in  execution  of  a  writ 
on  account  of  the  absence  of  the  claimant  on  the  day  of  the  inquiry,  may 
be  vacated  with  the  consent  of  the  parties, 

iluttti  Menilta  r.  Appuliamy  i  referred  to. 

Per  Lascelies  C.  J.  It  would  be  a  monntrous  thing  if  a  party  were 
allowed  to  take  advantage  of  his  conduct  in  first  consenting  to  the  vaca- 
tion of  an  order  and  then  pleading  that  the  order  notwithstanding  his 
consent  to  its  vacation,  was  still  in  full  force  and  effect. 

This  was  a  claim  case.  The  District  Judge  having 
dismissed  the  claim  of  the  appellant  through  a  mistake,  the 
Proctor  for  the  appellant  moved  with  the  consent  of  the 
Proctoi  for  the  respondent  that  the  order  of  dismissal  be 
vacated.  This  motion  was  allowed.  On  the  date  of  inquiry, 
however,  Counsel  for  the  respondent  urged  on  the  authoritj' 
1)1'  lUiiUu  Mcnika  v.  Appuhamy  '  that  the  order  vacatinc: 
the  order  of  dismissal  was  invalid  and  that  the  order  dis- 
missing the  claim  was  still  in  effect.  The  District  Judge 
upheld  this  contention  and  refused  to  inquire  into  the  claim. 
The  appeal  is  against  this  order. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayeivardene  for  the  claimant-appellant. — 
The  judgment-creditor's  proctor  having  consented  to  the 
vacation  of  the  order  dismissing  the  claim  and  fixing  the 
claim  for  inquiry,  cannot  now  object  to  the  claim 
inquiry  being  held.  The  appellant  is  now  prevented  from 
bringing  his  action  under  §  247,  which  he  would  have  clone 
if  the  respondent  had  not  consented  to  the  6rder  of  dis- 
missal being  vacated.  A  party  to  a  civil  case  can  waive  the 
benefit  of  any  order  in  his  favour.  The  judgment  in 
Muttu  Meniha  v.  Appuhamy  ',  which  the  District  Judge 
considers  is  binding  on  him,  is  not  applicable  to  the  present 
case  as  there  the  order  of  vacation  was  not  made  of  consent. 

Bawa  K.  0.  for  the  judgment-creditors — respondents.— 
The  court  could  not  vacate  the  order  of  dismissal,  even 
though   the  Proctor  for  the   respondent   consented,  because 

1    (1911)  HX.L.R3.:'C'. 


C  J, 


120  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Silva  V.     §  247  makes  such  an  order  of  dismissal  final  and  conclusive. 
The  appellants'  remedy,  if  any,  would  have  been  to    bring 
Lascelles  ^n  action  under    §  247  as  provided    by  the   Code  (See  Muttu 
Mmika  v.  Appuhamy  ^). 

A.  St.  V.  Jayeivardmie  in  reply. — The  Code  does  not  give 
an  order  in  a  claim  inquiry  any  greater  finality  or  force 
than  a  decree  in  any  other  action.  It  merely  states  that  if 
no  action  under  ^  247  is  brought  such  order  shall  be 
conclusive,  that  is,  final  between  the  parties  in  the  same  way 
as  any  ordinary  decree.  In  civil  cases,  decrees  can  be  opened 
up  by  consent  of  parties. 

Lascelles  C  J. — The  facts  which  have  given  rise  to 
this  appeal  are  somewhat  of  an  unusual  nature.  The 
appeal  concerns  an  order  made  in  certain  claim  proceedings. 
The  journal  entry  undei  the  3rd  August  19ll,  is,  "Notice 
not  served — Reissue  for  "30th  August,  1911."  On  the  3rd 
August  we  find  the  proctors  for  tha  claimant  were  present, 
and  the  execution  creditor  and  his  proctor,  Mr.  Wijetunge^ 
were  also  there.  The  entry  is  "  Notice  not  served  on 
''  execution-debtor.  Claimants  in  both  claims  absent. 
"Claims  dismissed  with  costs  Rs.  25/ — .Fiscal  informed,' 
Then  on  the  16th  Angust  we  have  the  entry  that 
Messrs  de  Silva  and  Perera  for  claimant  move  that  the 
"  Order  dated  3rd  August  dismissing  the  claims  preferred 
"  in  this  case  be  vacated  as  on  that  date  notices  of  the 
"claims  had  not  been  served  on  the  judgment-debtor- 
''  Notice  of  this  motion  must  first  issue  on  the  execution- 
" creditor".  Then  on  the  next  day,  the  17th  August,  the 
entry  is  "Mr.  Wijetunge  for  execution-creditor  having 
"taken  notice  of  the  motion'  to  vacate  the  order  dismissing 
"  the  claims,  Messrs  de  Silva  and  Perera  for  the  claimant 
"move  that  the  said  order  be  vacated,  and  a  date  fixed  for 
"the  enquiry  of  the  said  claims  with  notice  thereof  to  the 
''  execution-creditor  and  the  defendant,"  From  the  original 
notice  of  the  motion  it  is  clear  that,  Mr,  Wijetunge  agreed 

1.     (1911)   U  N-  L.  E.  329, 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  121 

to  the  order  vacating  the  previous  order  of  the  3rd  August,    fj'''?. ''• 

There   is   an  entry    in    the   order,   apparently    in  his  hand- 

writiag,  and   signed  by  him   "  I  have  no  objection."     Then,  ^•■^"'^'■•'' 

when  the  case   came  on  for   further  enquiry,  the  advocate* 

who  appeared  for  Mr.  Wijetunge's  client,  objected  that  the 

order  vacating  the  order   of  the  3rd  August  was  invalid 

and  that   the  order  dismissing  the  claim  was   still  in  effect^ 

The  District  Judge  has  acceded  to  that  contention  with  the 

result  that  the  appellant,  owing  to  the  change  of  front  onthe 

part  of  Mr.  Wijetunge,  was  shut  out  from  all  redress.     The 

learned  District  Judge  appears  to  have  relied  on  the  judg. 

ment  of  this  Court  in  the  case  of  MuUu  Menika  v.iAppuhamy^ 

But  there  is  nothing  in  that   decision,  nor  has  any  authority 

been  cit^d  to  us,  to  show  that  an  order  dismissing  a  claim 

may  not   be  vacated  with  the  consent  of  the  parties.    The 

language  of   §  247   would  not,  in     my    opinion,   supper^ 

such  a   contention.     It  states   that  the  order  is  to  be  con. 

elusive,   subject   to   the  result    of  an  action  under    §  247. 

That  is,  conclusive  on  the  person   on   whom  the  order  is 

binding.     But  there  is  nothing  in  the  wording  of  the  sec. 

tion  to    preclude     such    an  order  being    vacated   by    the 

consent  of  the  parties.     I  am,  therefore,  of  opinion  that  the 

order  of  the  3rd  August,  by  the  consent  of  the  parties,  is  a 

valid    order,  and   that   the   order    of    the  District  Judge  is 

wrong.     It   would  be  a  monstrous   thing  if   a  party    were 

allowed  to  take  advantage  of  his  conduct    in  first  consenting 

to  the   vacating  of   an   order,  and  then    pleading   that   the 

order  notwithstanding  his  consent  to  its  vacation,  was  still 

in  full  force  and  effect.     In  my  opinion  the  appeal  ought 

to  succeed,  and  the  claim  proceedings  ought  to  be  continued. 

The  appellant  is  entitled  to  the  costs  of  the  appeal, 

GrenierJ.— I  entirely  agree. 

Appeal  allowed. 

Proctor  for  appellant — De  Silva  and  Perera 
Proctor  for  respondent — H.  E.  Wijetunge 

1    anj)  u  N.  L.  R.  S3». 


122  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

T.   M.  FERNANDO  v.  THE   DEPUTY  FISCAL  OF 

CHILAW. 

No,  4348.  D.  C.  Chilaw. 

Frsent :  Lasceiles  C.  J.  &  De  Sampayo  J. 

7th  May  19U. 

Civil  Procedii  re  Cudr  §  SSS — application  hy proi-toffor  stay  or  postpone- 
ment  of  sale — Fiscal's  ftes — prasumption  that  proctor  was  acting  on  hehalf 
of  client— personal  lialility  oj  proctor— party  liaMe. 

When  a  proctor  applies  for  a  stay  or  postponement  of  a  sale,  the 
presumption  is  that  he  is  acting  on  behalf  of  and  with  the.  authority  of  his 
client,  and  an  oider  uannot  be  made  against  the  proctor  personally  for 
Fiscal's  fees.  It  is  the  party  who  is  to  be  held  responsible,  if  the  sale  is 
stayed  or  postponed  on  bis  behalf. 

In  execution  of  a  decree  for  costs  entered  in  this  case 
in  favour  of  the  defendants,  a  property  belonging  to  the 
plaintiffs  was  seized.  Before  the  date  of  the  sale  the  plain- 
tiffs having  paid  the  amount  due  to  the  defendant, 
the  appellant  who  was  the  defendant's  Proctor,  wrote 
a  letter  to  the  Deputy  Fiscal,  Chilaw,  asking  him  to 
return  the  writ  to  Court  unexecuted.  The  Fiscal,  in  doing 
5Q,  moved  for  a  writ  of  execution  against  the  appellant  per^ 
sonally  for  the  sura  of  Rg  32.  being  his  recoverable  fees, 
which  the  learned  additional  District  Judge  allowed  with 
costs. 

Against  this  order  the  present  appeal  was  taken. 

H.  A.  Jai/ewardene.  for  the  appellant.— §  258  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code  says  that  the  Fiscal  shall  recover  his  fees 
from  "  the  party  at  whose  instance  the  writ  shall  be  stayed," 
There  is  nothing  in  this  section  to  indicate  that  a  proctor 
who  applies  for  a  stay  or  postponement  of  a  sale  is  personally 
liable,  The  presumption  is  that  the  the  proctor  acted  on 
behalf  of  and  with  the  authority  of  his  client,  and,  therefore, 
it  is  the  party  who  should  be  held  responsible. 

Allan  Brieberg,  for  the  Fiscal- Respondent.— The  Fiscal 
could  have  declined  to  act  without  pre-payment  of  fees,  and 
it  is  quite  likely  that  he  stayed  the   sale  on   the  personal 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  GASES.  l;^:-'. 

undertaking  of  the  proctor  to  pay  his  fees.  [Z)«  Sampayo  J.  Why       1'-  M. 

Fernando  v. 
did  yon  not  proceed  against  the  party  at  whose  instance   the  the  Deputy 

writ  was  stayed  ?]  Perhaps,  because  the'proctor  undertook  to     Jhifaw 

pay  us.     \_Lasc(ilhs  C.  J.    Is  tliere  any  provision  in  the  Code 

that  the  proctor  is  personally  liable  ?]  No.  C.  j, 

LascellBS  0.  J. —I  am  of  opinion  that  the  order, 
appealed  against  is  clearly  wrong.  Section  258  of  the  Civil  Pro- 
cedure Code  provides  that,  in  cases  where  the  sale  of  property 
seized  in  execution  is  postponed  or  stayed  at  the  request  or 
with  the  concurrence  of  the  party  suing  on  the  writ,  the 
Fiscal  or  Deputy  Fiscal  shall  recover  half  of  the  above  fees 
on  the  estimated  value  of  the  property  from  "  the  party  at 
whose  instance  the  writ  shall  be  stayed."  Here  the 
learned  District  Judge  has  made  the  order  not  against  the 
the  party,  but  against  the  proctor  of  the  party- 
There  is  nothing  in  the  Code  which  authorises  ah 
order  of  this  nature  to  be  made  against  the  proctor.  The 
presumption  is  that,  when  a  proctor  applies  for  a  stay  or 
postponement  of  a  sale,  he  is  acting  on  behalf  of  and  with 
the  authority  of  his  client,  and  in  default  of  any  special 
provision  in  the  Code  an  order  cannot  be  made  personally 
against  the  proctor.  The  Code  is  clear  that  it  is  the  partT 
who  is  to  be  held  responsible  for  the  Fiscal's  fees,  if  the  sale 
is  stayed  or  postponed  on  his  behalf.  Whether  on  the  materials 
before  us  an  order  could  have  been  made  against  Mr, 
Fernando's  client  is  a  question  which  we  are  not  here  called 
on  to  decide.  The  order  as  it  stands  is  clearly  erroneous, 
and  must  be  set  aside.  The  appellant  will  have  the  costs 
of  this  appeal  and  also  the  costs  of  th«  motion  in  the  District 
Court. 

De  Sampayo  A.  J.— I  entirely  agree. 


Set  aside 


Proctor  for  appellant — T.  M.  Fernando. 
Proctor  for  respondent— F.  J.  Martin. 


124  COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES. 

SINNO  APPU  vs.  PODINONA  et  al 

No.  6749  0.  R.  Galle 

Present:  Lascelles-  C.J. 

15th  May  1912 

Hgtoppd — •misreprexentation — minor — married  woman — axeevtion    ef 

mortgage  hy    tiiarried    ivoman  without  Imshand^s  connent — and  by  minor 

misrepresentation  by  mortgagors— fraud  —^  6  of  Ord.  15  of  1876 mortgage 

void  ab   initio. 

A  man-ied  woman,  who  by  §  9  of  the  Matrimonial  Rights  and 
Inheritance  Ordinance,  15  of  1876  cannot  dispose  of  her  immovable  property 
inter  vivos  except  with  the  consent  of  her  husband,  cannot  be  estopped 
from  pleading  coverture  by  any  misrepresentation  made  by  herself. 

The  same  principle,  is  applicable,  siubject  to  certain  «xceptions  and 
equitable  considerations,  to  minors,  who  are  under  a  common  law 
disability  as  regards  the  disposal  of  their  property. 

It  is  a  well  settled  principle  of  law  that  a  party  tannot  by 
representation,  any  more  than  by  any  other  means  raise  against  himself  an 
estoppel,  so  as  to  create  a  state  of  things,  which  he  is  under  a  legal  dis- 
ability from  creating. 

Referred  to  and  followed  : — Caiiti-rbury  Corporation  x.  Cooper  i; 
Cannon  1>.  Farmer.  2 

Wijesooriya  r.  Ibrahimsa  3  diiiferentiated. 

In  this  case  the  defendants  were  sued  as  the  legal  re- 
presentatives of  one  Balahamy,  a  married  woman,  and  one 
Deonis,  a  minor,  who  had  executed  a  mortgage  bond  in  favour 
of  the  plaintifE.  The  defence  wais  the  coverture  and  the 
minority  respectively  of  the  mortgagors.  The  plaintiff  alleged 
that  Balahamy  and  Deonis  had  falsely  represented  them- 
selves to  be  a  widow  and  of  full  age  respectively  and  thus 
induced  him  to  lend  them  money  on  the  mortgage  bond 
put  in  suit.  At  the  trial  the  issue  was  framed — "  Was  the 
plaintiff  fraudulently  induced  to  lend  money  on  the  mortgage 
bond  ?" — and  the  learned  commissioner  held  as  follows  :— 
"  I  find  that  the  deceased  Balahamy,  and  Deonis,  did  mis. 
represent  themselves  to  be  a  widow  and  a  major  respectively  at 
the  time  of  borrowing  the  money  from  plaintiff,  and  that  he 
was  ignorant  of  the  deceptions.  In  view  of  this  I  hold  that 
the  defendants,  the  heirs  of  the  deceased,  are  debarred  from 
deriving   any   benefit  from   the  fi-aud  of  the   deceased,  as 

1       (1 909)  March  to  August  L.  T.S.    (181,9)  S  E.rch  :  Reports  986 
S.    (1910)15  N,  L.  B.  195 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES  I2b 


they   would   do  if  the  plaint   were  dismissed  on  the  legal  Sinno  Appu 
grounds  set  out  in  the  answer.  A  similar    ruling   as   regards    Podi  liona 
a  minor  guilty  of  fraud  has  already  been  given  in  a  Supreme 
Court   case    reported    in    13  N.   L.   R.    195,  and    the    case 
of  a  wife  mortgaging  her  separate  estate  should  be  governed 
by  the  same  principle" 

Judgment  was  given    for    the  plaintiff.    The   defendants 
appealed. 

Bawa  K.  C,  for  the  defendants-appellant,  contended 
that  the  judgment  was  wrong  as  it  contravened  the  well- 
known  principle  that  estoppels  cannot  be  availed  of  to 
over-ride  the  law  of  the  land.  In  Wijesooriya  v.  Ihrahimsa  ' 
the  principle  was  recognized,  see  the  judgment  of 
Middleton.  J.;  but  it  was  not  given  effect  to,as  the  plantiff  there 
was  trying  to  take  advantage  of  his  own  fraud 
He  also  referred  to  Silva  v.  Bissanayake  -  and  Marie  Oangany  v 
Kuppasamy  Cangany  ^,  where  it  was  held  that  a  mortgage 
by  a  woman  married  after  the  proclamation  of  Ordinance  15 
of  1876  was  invalid.  There  was  no  fraudulent  misrepresenta- 
jtion  in  this  case. 

A.  St.  V.Jayatvardene  for  the  plantiff-respondent, — In  the 
two  cases  last  cited  there  was  no  suggestion  of  fraud,  so 
that  they  have  no  application  to  this  case.  Here  the  Com- 
missioner has  held  that  "  the  deceased  Balahamy  and  Deonis 
did  misrepresent  themselves  to  be  a  widow  and  a  major 
respectively  at  the  time  of  borrowing  the  money."  As 
regards  the  minor,  the  point  is  concluded  by  authority. 
In  Wijesooriya  v,  Ihrahimsa, '  Hutchinson  C.  J.  dismissed 
the  appeal  on  the  ground  that  although  the  sale  of 
immovables  by  a  minor  without  the  authority  of  the  Court 
is  void,  yet  it  would  be  valid  and  binding  if  the  minor 
represented  himself  to  be  of  full  age,  relying  on  a  passage 
tronx  Maasiiorp  Vol  I.  p.  347.  Middleton.  J.  gave  a  similar 
reason  for  his  decision.  As  regards  a  married  woman 
there  is  no  express    decision,  but  in   Ceylon   the  principle 

1     13  If.  L.  B.  195.  I      2    U89S)  S,  C.  L.  B.  1S3. 
3     (1906)  10  N.L  B.  79 


12t;  (JOQRT    OF     APPEAL    CASES. 

Sinno  App^i  that  an  estoppel  cannot  be  applied  with  the  object  or  resuU 
Podi  riona  0^  altering  the  law  of  the  land  must  be  taken  subject  to 
certain  qualifications.  The  law  requires  a  conveyance  of 
C  J.  land  to  be  notarially  attested,  but  where  a  person  falsely, 
represents  himself  to  be  the  owner  of  land  and  sells  the  same, 
if  he  afterwards  becomes  owner  of  the  same  property,  the 
law  of  estoppel  prevents  him  from  seeking  to  set  aside  the 
sale  entered  into  by  him,  vide  the  illustration  to  §  115  of  the 
Evidence  Ordinance.  But  if,  after  he  acquires  title,  he  again 
sells  to  a  third  party,  the  latter  obtains  a  better  title  than  the 
first  purchaser  :    Doti  Oarolis  v.  James  ^ 

Bawa,  K.  C.  in  reply  c.a.v, 

Lascelles  C.  J.— This  is  an  appeal  from  a  judgment  on 
a  mortgage  bond  in  whieh  the  defence  was  that  one  of  the 
mortgagors,  Balahamy,  a  married  woman,  had  executed 
the  bond  without  the  consent  of  her  husband,  and  that  the 
other  mortgagor  Deonis,  Balahamy's  son,  was  a  minor  when 
he  executed  the  instrument,  The  learned  Commissioner  has 
given  judgment  on  the  bond  on  the  ground  that  there  was 
misrepresentation  on  the  part  of  the  mortgagors.  He  accepts 
the  evidence  that  Balahamy  described  herself  as  a  widow  to 
the  notary  and  that  Deonis  stated  that  he  was  of  full  age 
In  my  opinion  the  judgment,  of  the  learned  Commissioner 
cannot  be  sustained.  By  §  9  of  the  Matrimonial  Rights  and 
Inheritance  Ordinance  1876  a  married  woman  may  dispose 
of  her  immovable  property  inter  vivos  with  the  consent 
of  her  husband  "  but  not  otherwise" — and  a  minor  is  also 
under  a  common  law  disability  as  regards  the  disposal  of 
his  property.  It  is  a  well  settled  principle  of  law  that  a 
party  cannot  by  representation,  any  more  than  by  other 
means,  raise  against  himself  an  estoppel,  so  as  to  create  a 
state  of  things  which  he  is  under  a  legal  disability  from 
creating.  On  this  principle  it  has  been  held  that  a  corporate 
body  cannot  be  estopped  from  denying  that  they  have 
entered  into  a  contract  which  it  was  ultra  vires  for  them  to 
1.    {1909)  1  Cum.  L.B.  nJt. 


COURT    OF     APPEAL    CASES.  127 

make  :    Canterbury  Corporation   v.  Cooper  '  ;  that  a  ■  married  Sinno  Appu 

vs. 
woman -protected  by  a  restraint  on  anticipation  cannot  either   podi  nona 

by  deed  or  representation  estop   herself  from  denying    facts 

L.3SC6IICS 

which  if  true  would  put  an  end  to  the  restraint :  Cannon  v_  C.J, 
Farmer  '^ ;  and  the  same  principle  is  applicable,  subject  to 
certain  exceptions  and  equitable  considerations,  to  contracts 
entered  into  by  minors.  In  Wijesooriya  v.  Ibrahimsa  ^  on 
which  the  leained  Commissioner  relies,  the  ratio  decidendi 
was  that  the  Court  would  refuse  its  assistance  to  a  person 
who  was  applying  to  the  court  to  help  him  to  obtain  the 
benefit  of  his  own  fraud.  The  present  case  is  entirely 
different,  for  here  the  plaintiff,  on  the  strength  of  the 
mortgagors'  misrepresentation  as  to  their  status,  is  asking 
the  court  to  clothe  with  legality  an  instrument  which  is  in 
itself  of  no  avail  in  law.  This,  I  think,  cannot  be  done  in 
view  of  the  authorities  which  I  have  cited.  I  would  add 
that  though  there  is  evidence  that  Deonis  made  an  untrue 
statement  as  to  his  age,  the  evidence  of  fraud,  in  the  proper 
sense  of  the  word,  is  almost  entirely  wanting,  so  far  as  he 
is  concerned. 

I  set  aside  the  judgment  and  dismiss  the  action    with 
costs  here  and  in  the  conrt  below. 

Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  Appellants — W.  E.  Weerasooriya. 

Proctor  for  Respondent. — R.  A.  H.  de  Vos. 

[_Note,  It  would  seem  that  the  decision  in  Wijesooriya  v.  limhimsa  3 
is  based  on  a  misreading  of  Maasdorp  Vol.  l^p.  24:7  Maasdvrp  there  deals 
with  two  kinds  of  contracts  made  by  minors  (a)  contracts  to  wliich  the 
tutors  or  guardians  consent  is  both  necessary  and  sufficient  and  Cb)  con- 
tracts to  which  a  guardian's  consent  is  necessary  but  in-sufficient,  e,  g.  con- 
tracts alienating  or  burdening  the  immovable  property  of  a  minor.  Con- 
tracts of  tlie  former  kind  are  merely  voidable  and  are  binding  on  the  other 
party,  whenever  they  are  for  the  benefit  of  the  minor,  but  the  minor 
himself  remaining  free.  To  this  rule,  says  Maasdrop.  there  are  four  except- 
ions, one  of  which  is  when  a,  minur fahelt^  represented  himself  to  be  of  full 
age,  and  has  deceived  the  contracting  party  liy  his  misrepresentation.  • 
Contracts  of  the  latter  kind  (b)  are  absolutely  void  when  not  made  with 
the  authoritj'  of  the  Court,  and  j¥affl«(i(i);/>  nowhere  says  that  there  is  any 
exception  to  this  rule  or  that  such  contracts  are  binding  on  the  minoT. 
when  he  has  falsely  represented  himself  to  be  of  full  age.  See  also  the 
local  decisions  :  (?K?M.!«fere  ffawu'Mtf  !'.  Hon  Baron*;  Mustappa  Lehbe  v 
Mart  inns  s;   Mannd  Naide    l.   Adrian  Hamy  s  .  Editors.] 

1.     (1909)  Marck.to  August  L.T.  597    S.     (1849)  S  E^-ck:  Bep:  69S 
$.    (1910)  IS  N.  L.  fi.  195.        4.    (1902)  N.  L.  B.  $rs . 

S.     (1903-)  6  N.  L.  E.  M4  6.     (1969)  12  ^.L.K  259 


128  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

IN  THE   MATTER  OF  THE    JOINT  LAST  WILL  AND  TESTA" 

MBNT  OP  SIMON  MORIBS   AND  JUSTINA  MORIBS. 

Henry    de    Costa — Petitioner-  Respondent. 

Lewis  Silva  et   a\— Executors- Appellants. 

No.  960  D.  C.  Colombo. 

Present :  Lascelies  C.  J.  &  Wood  Renton  d. 

27tliMay  1912. 

Cotirt-s  Ordinance  No.  1  of  18S9  ^lo—AppealaUe  order— Keprasdon 
of  opinion— Order— Judifinl  stittlement  of  aiTounts—Timn  for  appealing— 
Ciril  Procedure  Code  §  5  and  Chap  :  LI7. 

Whei'e  in  a  judicial  settlement  of.'aceounts,  there  was  a  contest  as  to 
whether  the  executors  had  sold  any  of  the  properties  belonging  to  the 
estate  for  less  then  their  real  value,  and  the  District  Judge  expressed  his 
ooinion  that  the  properties  sold  were  worth  at  least  double  the  amount 
for  which  they  had  been  sold,  but  did  not  specify  the  exact  sum  which  he 
considered  to  be  their  true  value  nor  make  an  order  directing  the 
executors  to  bring  any  particular  amount  into  Court. 

Held  that  this  is  not'  an  appealable  order  and  that  the  appeal  is 
premature. 

Per  Lascelies  C.  J,  After  the  Judge  has  made  his  decree  ou  the 
petition  for  a  judicial  settlement,  the  appellant  will  have  an  opportunity, 
if  he  is  so  advised,  of  appealing  against  any  of  the  findings  to  which  he 
objects. 

This  was  a  petition  for  the  judicial  settlement  of  the 
appellants'  accounts  as  executors.  There  were  nine  objec- 
tions taken  in  the  petition  but  on  the  date  of  trial  the  parties 
agreed  that  one  of  the  objections  should  be  tried  first,  as  to 
whether  the  executors  had  sold  certain  properties  of  the 
testator  for  less  than  their  real  value.  The  learned 
District  Judge  found  on  the  evidence  that  some  of  the  pro- 
perties which  were  sold  were  worth,  at  least,  double  the 
amount. 

Against  this  finding  the  executors  appealed. 

Walter  Pereira  K.  C,  S.  G.  f'with  Samerewickrame )  for  thg 
respondent. — The  appeal  taken  in  this  case  is  premature. 
There  is  no  formal  order  on  record,  A  mere  decision  on 
matters  placed  before  the  Court  is  not  an  order  (see  defini- 
tion of  "  order  "  in  §  5  Civil  Procedure  Code).  This  is  a  mere 
expression  of  opinion  which  will  pave  the  way  for  an  order 
in  the  future. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES  129 

H.  J.  C.  Perelra  (with  E.  6.  P.  JayeUlehe.)  for  the  executors-  In  tho  Matter 
appellant. — The  Judge  calls  it   an  order.     As    a   matter   of    Lust  Will 
fact  it  is  a  iudgmeiit.     If  this  is  allowed  to  stand,   execution  "^"'-'  ^f'^'^'J" 

•'       °  nient  of 

can  be  levied   against  us  at   any  moment.     The  Judge  finds  Simon  Jlorius 

that  we  have  under-valued  the  properties  and  that  we  have     ,ru>tiiiii 

been  privies  to  a  fraud.    It  is  submitted  that  this  is  a  formal      •^l""'!''. 

order  (see  Veris  v.  Perera  '  ;    Punr/u  Appuhamy  v.  Mudianse-).    Lascelles 

C.  J. 
Walter  Pm-eira  K.  C\,  S.-G.  in  reply. 

Lascelles  0.  J.  — I  have  no  doubt  that  the  appeal  in 
this  case  is  premature.  This  is  a  petition  for  a  judicial  settle- 
ment in  which  objection  is  taken  to  tlie  account  filed  liy  the 
executors  on  nine  grounds.  When  the  petition  came  on  tor 
trial  on  the  29th  May,  1911,  it  was  agreed  that  one  of  the 
issues  should  be  tried  on  that  day,  namely,  the  issue 
"  whether  the  executors  had  sold  any  of  the  properties 
"belonging  to  the  estate  for  less  than  their  real  values,  it 
"  so,  which  of  them?  " 

A  good  deal  of  evidence  was  heard  and  the  Judge 
declared  his  decision  on  the  11th  January  1912.  He  there 
states  that  one  of  the  executors'  own  witnesses  had  valued 
certain  property  sold  by  the  executors  at  Ks.  8S01  which 
properties  the  executors  had  sold  for  Rs.  5500  and  the 
learned  District  Judge  expressed  the  opinion  that  the 
properties  sold  were  worth  at  least  double  the  amount  for 
which  they  had  l)een  sold  :  and  in  the  result  the  judge 
answered  the  question  raised  in  the  issue  in  the  affirmative. 
He  did  not  specify  the  exact  sum  which  he  considered  to  be 
the  true  value  of  the  property,  and  he  did  not  make  any 
order  directing  the  executors  to  bring  any  particular  amount 
into  Court.  It  seems  clear  to  me  that  this  is  not  an 
appealable  order.  It  amounts  to  no  more  than  an  express- 
ion of  opinion  on  one  of  several  issues  which  for  the  sake  of 
convenience  ■  was  heard  separately  from  the  others.  The 
inconvenience   of   allowing    an  appeal  to  be  taken    against 

i.    (1906)  10  N.L.Ii.  Ji.1.        ■,'.    (10U7)  i:\  A.  0.  E.  159. 


130  COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 

every  item  of  ;i  contested  account  is  obvious.  If  such 
proceedings  were  allowed  an  inquiry  into  the  accounts  of 
an  executor  might  be  rendered  impracticable.  After  the 
Judge  has  made  his  decree  on  the  petition  for  a  judicial 
settlement  the  appellant  will  have  an  opportunity,  if  he  is 
so  advised,  of  appealing  against  any  of  the  findings  to 
which  he  objects.  In  my  opinion  the  appeal  is  premature 
and  must  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

Wood  Renton  J. — I  am  of  the  same  opinion  for  the  same 
reasons. 

Appeal   dismissed. 
Proctor    for    Appellants— jS.  W,  Perera. 
Proctors  for  Respondents — Julius  and  Greasy. 


ARUMUGAM  /•  THAMPF 

No.  7690  D.  C.  .Jaffna, 

Presmf  ■  Lasoelles  C.  J.  &  De  Sampayo  A.  J. 

21st  May,  1912. 

Deci-tiiiii  oil  one  of  .iiccral  Issues — token  af2Jealable—prixy  in  estate— 
Hwrtgage  svitsepwnt  til  judgment — movtrjagee  no  parti)  to  the  action — res 
inter  alios  acta 

An  interlocutory  appeal  would  He  from  the  decision  of  an  issue  on  a 
point  which  is  not  a  mere  incidental  matter  but  goes  to  the  root  of  the 
case,  especially  if  such  appeal  would  prevent  necessary  evidence  being 
shut  out  and  thus  obviate  a  second  trial  for  the  reception  of  such  evidence. 

A  judgment  is  not  conclusive  against  a  person  as  privy  in  estate  to  a 
party  litigant  unless  it  is  shown  that  he  derives  title  under  the  latter  by  an 
act  subeequent  to  the  commencement  of  the  aption. 

A  judgment  obtained  against  a  mortgagor  of  land  after  the  mortgage 
is  res  inter  alios  acta  as  to  a  mortgagee  who  was  not  a  party  to  the 
action. 

The  facts  of  the  case  are  fully  set  out  in  the  judgment  of  De  Sampayo  J. 

Kmiagasabai.  for  respondent  raised  a  preliminary  object- 
ion.   No  appeal  lies.    There  was  no   decree,   no  order,  Qor 

judgment.  {  M'A  of  the  Code  throws  some  light  upon  what  is 


COURTOF        APPEAL    CASES.  131 

appealable  and  what  is  not.     It  is  only  where  an  iasue  of  law  -Arumusam  v. 

,  ,    , .       Thampu 
would  dispose  of  a  case   entirely   that   an  appeal    wojild   he 

against  a  refusal  to   frame   that   issue.     The    present   appeal  De 

which  is  from  the  decision  of  an  issue  which  does  not  dispose      ^a!?.*^** 

of  the  case  entirely,  is  prematui-e.     The  trial  of  a  case  would 

be  crippled    if  appeals   were  allowed   on    the    decisions   of 

individual  issues. 

Balasingham  for  appellant. — The  framing  of  an  issue 
involves  a  judicial  decision  and  it  is  appealable — {Peiris  v 
Perera  '),  therefore  a  decision  on  such  an  issue  is  also  appeal- 
able. The  issue  that  has  been  decided  is  one  that  goes  to  the 
root  of  the  case  and  an  appeal  lies  from  it.  Had  we  not  appealed 
now,  when  the  case  comes  up  in  appeal  finally,  if  we  succeed 
in  the  appeal  all  that  this  court  can  do  would  be  to  send  the 
case  back  for  the  taking  of  the  evidence  which  has  been  shut 
out  on  account  of  the  wrong  decision  of  this  issue.  The 
present  appeal  would  obviate  that  inconvenience  and  prevent 
the  case  from  being  tried  piecemeal.  [Their  Lordships  in- 
timated their  willingness  to  hear  the  appeal  on  the  merits.] 
The  mortgagee  is  not  bound  by  the  decree  of  the  plaintiff 
against  the  mortgagors.  He  was  not  a  party  to  the  mortgage 
action  and  his  rights  accrued  before  the  plaintiff  brought  his 
action  on  the  mortgage.  The  mortgagee's  rights  against  the 
mortgagor  must  be  determined  at  the  date  of  the  mortgage 
and  those  rights  cannot  be  affected  by  a  decree  obtained 
subsequent  to  the  mortgage.  Such  a  decree  is  res  inter  alios 
acta,  HaUhurij  Vol  13  §  480.  As  the  action  is  constituted  the 
mortgagee  cannot  be  said  to  be  a  privy  in  interest  of  the 
mortgagor.     Ctisperz  on  Estoppel  172. 

Kanagasabai  referred  to  Ameer  AH  on  Evidence,pji)  136  and 
137,  and  discussed  the  appeal  on  the  facts. 

c.  a.  V. 

De.Sampayo  A.  J.— The  facts  of  the  case,  so  far  as 
they  are  material  to  this  appeal  are  these  :     One  Sanmngam 

(1)    (1906)  10  N.L.B.  41. 


132  COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES. 

Aniranijnm  who  was  the  admitted  owner  of  the  land  oWerf  certain  shares 

in  1853  to  one  MuttupuUe,  among   whose  heirs  are   the   3rd 

De        and  4th  defendants.  In  1907  the  plaintiff  alleging  that  he  was  a 

^^a''j^°  ^°"  '^"'-^  ^'^"  °*  Sanmngam  hrought  the  action  C.  E.  Kayts 
8087  against  the  3rd  and  4th  del'endants  and  certain  others 
as  heirs  of  Muttupulle  to  redeem  the  mortgage.  In  that 
action  the  fact  of  the  plaintiff  being  a  son  of  Sanmugam  was 
pnt  in  issue.  The  Court  found  in  favour  of  the  plaintifE  on 
that  issue,  and  in  the  result  gave  him  judgment.  In  the 
meantime  the  3rd  and  4th  defendants  had  mortgaged  to  the 
1st  and  2nd  defendants  cei'tain  shares  of  the  land  which 
they  derived  from  some  other  parties  who  are  alleged  to  be 
the  true  heirs  of  Sanmugam. 

Subsequently  to  the  decision  of  the  Kayts  action,  the  1st 
and  2nd  defendants,  who  were  no  parties  to  that  action,  sued 
the  3rd  and  4th  defendants  on  their  mortgage  in  the  action 
C.  E.  Jaffna  7391,  and  obtained  judgment,  and  an  order  for 
sale  of  the  mortgaged  property  irnder  §  201  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code.  On  the  property  being  advertised  for  sale 
by  the  Fiscal  under  that  order  the  plaintiff  claimed  the 
property  but  his  claim  was  rejected  by  the  Court  as  there 
had  been  no  seizui-e  as  in  an  ordinary  case  of  execution.  The 
property  was  ultimately  sold  and  purchased  by  the  1st  and 
2nd  defendants. 

The  plaintiff  brought  the  present  action  against  the 
defendants,  alleging  that  "the  3rd  and  4th  defendants  have 
"  no  saleable  interest  to  any  share  of  the  said  land  and  the 
"  wrongful  sale  of  the  said  shares  affects  the  plaintiff's  right 
"  to  the  said  land  "  and  praying  that  the  3rd  and  4th  def- 
endants may  be  declared  not  to  have  any  saleable  interest  in 
the  land  and  that  the  sale  may  be  cancelled. 

In  the  plaint  the  plaintiff   set  out  the   circumstances  o 
the  above  action  C.  E.  Kayts  8087 — and   pleaded  the   decree 
therein  as  res  judicata  as  against  the  3rd  and  4th    defendants. 
The  1st  and  2nd  defendants  in  their  answer  took  upon  them, 
s»lves  to  deny,  what  was  not  in  fact  [asserted  by  plaintiff- 


COUR'L'     OF    APPEAL    CASES.  133 

that  the  Knyts  case  was  ren  judicata  against   them.     However,  Anumi-ani 
an  issne  was  stated  at  the  trial  as  to  whether  the    decision  in 
that  case  as  to  (lie  plaiutift   being  a   son  of   Sanmngam   was        og 
binding  on  the  1st  and  2nd  defendants,    and  a   further  issue?    Sampayo 
I  take  it  Its  an  alternative  issne,   was  also    stated   of    consent 
as  to  whether  the   plaintiff   was  a   son  of    Sanmngam.     The 
District  Judge  heard  argument  on  the   pveliminary    issue  of 
law,  and  held  that   in  the    circumstances    above    recited    the 
1st  and  2nd  defendants  were  privies  of  the  3rd  and  4th   def- 
endants, and  were  bound  l)y  the  decree  in   C.  R.  Kayts  8087 
and  so  he  decided  the  issue    in  favour   of  the   plaintiff    and 
tixed  the  case  for  trial  on  the  other  issues.     The  1st  and  2nd 
defendants  appealed. 

Mr.  Kanagasabai  for  the  plaintiff — respondent  took  the 
preliminary  objection  that  no  appeal  lay  on  the  ground  that 
there  was  no  appealable  order.  We,  however,  heard  counsel 
on  the  appeal.  So  far  ther-^  was  only  a  decision  on  one  of 
the  issues  in  the  case,  but  it  wa.s  an  important  issue,  and  the 
decision  thereon  practically  amounted  to  a  refusal  to  hear 
evidence  on  the  alternative  issne  of  fact  whether  plaintiff 
was  a  son  of  Sanmugam.  No  doubt  interlocutorj'  appeals  in 
the  course  of  a  trial,  having  the  effect  of  suspending  the 
proceedings  are  generally  to  be  deprecated  when  the  matter 
of  such  appeals  may  well  be  brought  up  at  the  final  appeal. 
But  where,  as  in  this  case,  the  point  is  not  a  mere  incidental 
matter  but  goes  to  the  root  of  the  case  an  interlocutory  appeal 
is  convenient,  especially  if  it  would  prevent  necessary 
evidence  being  shut  out  and  thus  obviate  a  second  trial  for 
the  reception  of  such  evidence.  In  this  case  the  plaintiff's 
claim  turns  upon  the  fact  of  his  being  son  of  Sanmugam,  for 
otherwise  he  has  no  right  to  the  land  at  all.  I  think  we 
rightly  heard  the  appeal  on  its  merits. 

In  my  opinion  the  decision  appealed  from  is  erroneous. 
It  will  be  seen  that  this  is  not  an  action  rei  viniUcatio  where 
the  plaintiff  asserts  his  title  against  the  1st  and  2nd  def- 
endants as  purchasers   at  the   execution   sale,   but  an   action 


134  COURT    OP    APPEAL     CASES. 

Ariuniigiim  wkei'e  the  plaintiff  seeks  to  shew  that  the  1st  and  2ud  def- 
nmpu  gmj^jj|.gi  mortgagors,  the   3rd  and  4th   defendants,   have   no 

Lascelles,  title  as  against  him,  and  on  that  ground  to  have  the  verj- 
''•  •'•  execution  sale  set  aside.  The  form  of  action  is  rather  novel  bat 
I  say  nothing  as  to  that  now.  But  the  action  being  such  as 
it  is,  it  is  the  1st  and  2nd  defendant's  position  as  mortgagees 
that  is  attached.  They  are,  therefore,  entitled  to  raise  any 
defence  available  as  at  the  date  of  the  mortgage.  This 
mortgage  was  prior  in  date  to  the  action  C.  R.  Kayts  8087 
and  to  the  decree  therein  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff  against 
the  3rd  and  4th  defendants,  and,  therefore,  the  decree  to 
which  the  1st  and  2nd  defendants  were  no  parties  cannot 
affect  them,  on  the  principle  that  a  judgment  is  not  con- 
clusive against  a  person  as  privy  in  estate  to  a  party  litigant, 
unless  it  is  shown  that  he  derives  title  under  the  latter  by 
an  act  subsequent  to  the  commencement  of  the  action.  A 
judgment  obtained  against  a  mortgagor  of  land  after  the 
mortgage,  is  res  inter  alios  acta  as  to  a  mortgagee  who  was  not 
a  party  to  the  action — Natal  Land  o.iul  Colonization  Co.  r. 
Good  \ 

The  appeal  should,  I  think,  he  allowed  with  coats. 
LaSCelleS  O.  J. — I  entirely  agiee. 

Appeal  allowed. 
Proctor  for  appellant —  T.  S.  Conke. 
Proctor  for  Respondent —    K.  Kanagasahai. 

(S)    L.  B.  S  P.  C.  m. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES-  ISa 

SAWER  r.  TRINGHAM. 
D.  C.  Colombo  No.  33334. 
Present :  Lascelles  C.  J.  &  De  Sampayo  A.  J. 

23rd  May,  1912. 

Breack  of  promise  of  marriage— absence  of  explicitly  expressed  inten- 
tionnot  to  fulfil  contract— request  to  be  released — improper  conduct— indi- 
cation of  intention  to  break  off  engagement. 

An  aution  for  breach  o£  promise  of  marriage  can  be  maintained  in 
tile  absence  of  an  explicitly  expressed  intention  not  to  fulfil  the  contract, 
when  it  is  not  an  essential  term  in  the  contract  that  the  marriage  should 
take  place  on  or  before  a  certain  daj-. 

A  request  by  the  defendant  to  be  released  from  the  engagement 
'Oupled  witli  improper  conduct  on  his  part,  both  before  and  after  the  said 
request,  may  be  taken  tci  indicate  a  clear  intention  on  his  part  to  break 
off  the  engagement. 

Froet  f.    Kiiif/ht  '   and    Hnchcstir  i.   Be  La,  Tour  -  distinguished. 

Thiy  ia  au   uppenl  from  the    iiollowiiig  judgment   of  the 
Acting  District  Judge  of  Colombo  (F.  M.  de  Saram  Esq.;> 

This  is  an  action  for  damages  for  breach  of  promise  on  the  part  of  the 
defendant  to  marry  the  plaintiff.  The  plaint  avers  that  in  the  month  of 
Nov.  1910  the  parties  agreed  to  marry  one  another  and  that  in  or  about  the 
month  of  September,  1911,  the  defendant  wrongfully  refused  to  marry  the 
plaintiff — tha  marriage  having  been  fixed  for  the  9th  November  1911.  The 
defendant  admits  the  agreement  to  marry  but  denies  that  he  refused  to 
marry  the  plaintiff  and  further  says  that  he  was  always  ready  aud  willing 
to  marry  plaintiff. 

The  parties  went  to  trial  on  the  issues  as  to  whether  there  was  a 
refusal  on  the  defendant's  part  to  marry  the  plaintiff,  and,  if  there  was, 
what  damages  had  plaintiff  sustained. 

It  was  contended  by  Mr.  VanLangenberg,  who  appeared  for  the 
defendant  that  there  must  be  a  distinci  refusal  on  defendant's  part  to 
marry  the  plaintiff  and  that  the  letters  did  not  show  such  an  absolute 
determination  on  defendant's  part  to  refuse  to  perform  his  contract. 

Was  there  such  a  refusal  ?  If  there  was  no  unequivocal  and  explicit 
refusal  can  such  be  gathered  from  the  defendant's  letters,  his  conduct  and 
the  circumstances  of  the  case  ? 

(i)     0  L.  B.  Ex:  332  (3)     :'  E.  i'  B.  67S. 


136  COURT    OP    APPE.IL    CASES 

Sawei'  V.  A  promise   of   marriage  is  no   longer    an  obligation    hi  specie,  but  its 

Trinijhaiii  breach  founds  a  claim  for  damages,  and  under  sub-section  3  of  section  21 
of  the  Ordinance  No.  19  of  1907  no  such  damages  can  be  recovered  unless 
such  promise  of  marriage  shall  have  been  made  in  writing. 

In  Beting  r.  VHhecati'^  the  plaintiff  and  defendant  had  verbally 
promised  to  marry  each  other  and  in  a  letter  addressed  to  the  plaintiff 
the  defendant  wrote:  "I  won't  tease  you  till  we  get  marijeii 
shall  we  fix  the  happy  day  (IJ.  V.)  for  the  8th  April,  the  day  after 
Easter".  It  was  argued  on  behalf  of  the  defendant  that  if  the  proposal 
to  marry  had  been  made  verbally  the  production  of  documentary  evidence 
showing  th;it  the  defendant  admitted  that  a  verbal  promise  had  been 
made  would  not  be  sutticient  to  entitle  the  plaintitt'  to  bring  an  action  on 
the  original  verbal  promise  to  ?uarry.  as  the  Ordinance  only  provided  for 
the  promise  itself  being  made  in  writing,  and  does  not  provide  for  the  case 
in  which  there  was  a  verbal  promise  corroborated  by  some  other  material 
documentary  evidence  written  by  the  party  sought  to  be  bound  by  the 
verbal  promise — The  Supreme  Court  construed  the  letter  as  containing  an 
offer  on  the  part  of  the  defendant  in  writing  to  marry  thS-plaintiff  nam- 
ing a  day  whijh  offer  was  duly  accepted  by  the  Plaintiff'. 

In  Jayesinghe  c.  Fcrcra  2  the  plaintiff  and  defendant  had  promised 
to  marry  each  other.  At  the  father's  suggestion  the  defendant 
uudertooli  to  send  him  a  formal  written  solicitation  of  the  plaintiff's 
hand.  He  failed  to  do  this  and  at  her  father's  request  the  plaintifi'  wrote 
to  the  defendant  asking  him  to  put  his  promise  in  writing.  The  defen- 
dant wrote  back  a  letter  in  which  he  says  he  in  not  agreeable  to  plaintift''a 
father's  suggestion  for  the  reason  that  if  he  trusts  the  plaintiff  she  should 
trust  him  ;  if  the  plaintiff's  parents  have  no  faith  in  his  word,  he  cannot 
help  it;  if  they  do  n"t  believe  his  word,  he  is  not  to  blame.  The  defen- 
dant endeavoured  to  prove  that  this  letter  had  reference  to  his  promise  to 
lend  plaintiff's  father  some  money.  This  was  found  to  be  false  by  the 
District  Judge,  The  District  Judge  believed  that  the  letter  alluded  to  the 
defendant's  promise  of  marriage. 

Wendt,  J.,  said,  "so  read,  in  connection  with  the  letter  to  which  it  was 
'an  answer,  the  letter  contains  an  unqualified  admission  under  the  hand 
'  of  the  defendant  of  the  existence  of  his  promise  to  marry  the  plaintiff, 
"  and  in  my  opinion  that  is  all  the  Ordinance  rciquires." 

It  will  therefore  be  seen  from  the  cases,  that  though  there  was  no 
esi,  ress  promise  to  marry  in  the  letters  themselves  yet  if  such  promise 
could  be  gathered  from  all  the  facts  of  the  case  the  letters  would  be  a 
sufficient  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Ordinance. 

7.     {W0.3)  I ,  X.  C.  It.  I  :2.     (190S)IJN.L.  i:.  6J, 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES  137 

If  such  is  the   result  of  the   construction  of  aa  express  provision  of    Sawer  v. 
the  Ordinance,  whj' should  not  evidence  be  ]ed  aliunde:  to  prove  a   refusal     i"ngham 
to  marry  ?  The  law  does   not  require  such  refusal  to  be  in  writing.  I   hold 
therefore  that  there  need  not  be  ait  e-eprpss  rejusal  to  marry,  but  that  3uch 
refusal  can  be  gathered  from   the  defendant's  letters,  his  conduct  and  the 
surrounding  circumstances  of  the  case. 

As  to  the  facts.  The  two  families — the  plaintiff's  and  defendant's — 
were  known  to  each  other  for  many  years  ;  and  the  plaintiff  and  defendant 
were  acquainted  with  each  other  from  their  childhood  and  called  each  other 
by  their  christian  names. 

In  November,  1910,  the  defendant  who' was  then  in  charge  of  Wigton 
Estate,  Rozelle,  (having  come  there  from  Arselena  Estate,  Yatiyantota) 
and  with  whom  his  sister  was  living,  invited  the  plaintiff  to  visit  Wigton 
This  invitation  was  accepted,  and  it  was  during  that  visit  that  the 
defendant  proposed  to  and  was  accepted  by  the  plaintiff.  The  defendant 
states  that  at  that  time  he  had  a  mistress  in  the  house  who  occupied  a 
couple  of  rooms  in  the  back  of  the  house,  but  I  do  not  believe  that  plain- 
tiff was  aware  of  that  fact  at  the  time  of  her  engagement. 

Subsequently  the  defendant  wrote  to  Jthe  plaintiff's  father  asking  for 
his  consent  to  the  engagement.  Before  giving  his  consent.  Mr.  Sawer 
states  that  he  wrote  and  asked  the  defendant  if  he  had  any  associations 
which  he  should  not  have,  and  that,  if  he  had  any  such,  they  should  be 
knocked  off.  As  to  to  the  contents  of  the  letter  in  reply,  the  defendant  and 
Mr.  Sawer.  are  not  agreed.  Mr.  Sawer  says  that  the  reply  he  received 
from  defendant  was  that  he  had  been  keeping  a  woman  as  his  mistress 
but  that  he  had  paid  her  off  and  had  finished  with  her  for  good  and  all  ; 
that  he  accordingly  accepted  defendant's  word  and  gave  his  consent  to  the 
en"a"ement  which  he  would  not  otherwise  havo  done.  The  defendant 
however  states  that  in  answer  to  Mr.  Sawer's  letter  he  wrote  back  saying 
that  he  had  been  keeping  a  woman  for  years  and  that  whilst  on  Arselena 
Estate  he  had  commenced  making  arrangements  to  get  rid  of  her  :  that 
he  did  not  write  and  say  that  he  had  got  rid  of  her.  I  do  not  think  in 
the  circumstances  of  the  case  that  the  defendant  would  have  sent  Mr^ 
Sawer  a  vague  reply.  It  must  be  remembered  that  the  defendant  had 
just  proposed  to  and  had  been  accepted  by  the  daughter,  and  I  cannot 
believe  that  defendant  would  have  sent  a  reply  other  than  the  one  Mr, 
Sawer  says  he  did  send,  and  I  accept  Mr.  Sawer's  evidence  on  the  point. 

The  parents  consent  having  been  obtained,  the  defendant  naturally 
visited  hUjiaitcee  at  Colombo  at  intervals  of  time. 

Between  November,  1910,  and  January,  1911,  the  woman  Rose  continued 
to  live  in  defendant's  bungalow  on  Wigton.  After  Jannary,  1911,  and  up  to 


t38  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 

Ti  ™'»h  ^  nearl)'  the  end  of  June,  1911,  the  woman  was  living  in  a  house  at  Gampola 
built  for  her  by  defendant  and  used  to  visit  defendant  at  his  bungalow, 
the  defendant  sometimes  visiting  her  at  her  house. 

In  June,  1911,  the  wedding  day  was  fixed  for  the  31st  August,  1911,  and 
the  defendant  then  began  to  look  about  for  a  home  for  his  mistress.  He 
wrote  to  his  friend  Robert  Phllpot  who  was  his  neighbour  while  on 
Arselena  Estate  the  letter  P.  1 1  aud  aslied  him  whether  he  knew  of  anyone 
wanting  a  mistress.  Mr.  Philpot  who  had  seen  th^  woman  while  defendant 
was  on  Arselena  Estate  offered  to  take  her  over  and  she  was  accordingly 
sent  to  him. 

She  lived  with  Mr.  Philpot  for  about  three  weeks-  The  woman  was 
with  him  when  defendant  wrote  the  letter  Pi  2  on  26th  Julj',  1911.  At 
that  date  the  plaintiff  was  ill  with  an  attack  of  dysentery  which  subse- 
quently became  very  serious  and  at  one  time  her  life  was  despaired  of 
The  wedding  which  had  been  fixed  for  the  31st  Augu.-st,  1911,  was  conse- 
quently postponed  to  the  9th  November,  1911. 

A  change  in  the  feelings  of  the  defendant  then  manifested  itself 
His  love  for  the  woman  Rose  overcame  the  love — if  it  can  be  called  love — 
for  the  plaintiff.  The  defendant  went  over  to  his  friend  Robert  Philpot  and 
removed  the  woman-  I  ^an,  (luite  understand  Mr.  Philpot's  annoyance, 
and,  that  he  and  the  defendant  then  fell  out,  is  not  a  matter  of  much  sur- 
prise. The  defendant  relates  this  incident  in  his  letter  to  plaintiff  of 
17th  September  1911,  Pi.  He  alludes  to  the  rescue  of  the  woman  from 
Mr.  Philpot's  custody  and  says  that  he  had  a  tremendous  row  with  him 
and  left  at  9- 30  p.m.  without  any  dinner  and  after  seeing  "that  the  girl 
was  sate  on  her  way  to  her  village'';  but,  :is  a  matter  of  fact,  he  took  the 
woman  with  him  to  Gampola  and  dropped  her  at  the  station.  Between 
the  date  of  the  alleged  rescue  and  the  return  of  the  woman  to  Mr.  Philpot 
both  the  defendant  and  Mr,  Philpot  appear  to  have  been  visiting  the 
woman.  The  defendant  has  produced  the  letters  Di  of  10th  September 
1911,  and  D  2  of  16th  September,  1911,  and  the  telegrams  D  a  of  6th 
September,  1911,  and  D  +  of  12th  September,  1911,  written  and  sent  by  Mr 
Philpot  to  the  woman  Rose.  The  letter  D  2  is  dated  16th  September  1911 
which  was  a  Saturday,  and  in  it  Mr.  Philpot  says  "Be  ready  to  come  down 
to  the  Estate  on  Monday  morning  (  i.e.  the  18fch  September  )  by  6-30. 
train  from  Gampola".  The  defendant  was  in  Gampola  on  the  16th 
September  1911,  for  he  says  in  his  letter  to  plaintiff  dated  17th  September 
1911,  V  1  that  he  had  gone  to  Gampola  that  d.ay  and  that  he  heard  that 
Mr.  Philpot  was  at  Gampola  and  "as  he  has  again  been  acting  behind  my 
^'  back  and  endeavouring  to  cause  trouble  I  am  sure  that  had  I  met  him 
i' we  would  have  had  a  free  light"  Mr  Philpot  in  his  telegram  to  Rose 
of  Tuesday  12th  September  I'.'U  informed  her  that  he  was  arriving  on  Wed- 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    OASES  139 

nesday  evening  (13th  September)    and   asked   her  to   meet  him.     Tbat  Sawer  v, 

there  was  some  such  arrangement  is  shown  by  Rose's  letter  to  Mr.  Philpot  '-rnngham 
dated  8th  September  1911,  P  9  wherein  she  refers  to  the  coming  visit  on 

the  13th  September  1911.  ' 

Eose  wished  to  secure  another  home  for  herself  as  defendant  was 
about  to  get  married  and  as  Mr.  Philpot  was  willing  to  keep  the  woman 
Mr.  Pbilpot  made  arrangements  to  take  her  away.  Reprisals  in  the 
nature  of  disclosures  to  either  plaintiff  or  her  fathev  must  have  been 
threatened  by  JVIr.  Philpot,  as  defendant  continued  to  interfere  with  his 
plans,  and  defendant  then  thought  that  ^the  best  thing  to  do  was  to  tell 
all  to  plaintiff  herself  and  accordingly  he  wrote  the  letter  P  i  of  17th 
September  1911.  He  refers  to  a  conversation  he  had  with  plaintiff,  which 
was  on  some  day  in  June  1911,  when  he  said  that  he  had  "no  encum- 
brances like  many  planters  and  others  have".  He  says  that  he  took  it  for 
granted  that  plaintiff  understood  what  he  meant.  In  the  letter  P  i  he 
explains  his  meaning,  viz.  that  he  had  kept  a  mistress  for  several  years 
and  that  when  he  made  all  arrangements  to  get  rid  of  her  on  getting 
engaged  to  plaintiff  Mr.  Philpot  asked  defendant  to  send  the  woman  to 
him.  He  then  lefers  ts  the  rescue  of  the  woman  to  which  I  have  already 
alluded.  Defendant  further  says  in  the  letter  that  it  was  best  that 
plaintiff  should  know  these  things  before  they  got  married  for  un- 
pleasantness would  arise  between  them  if  those  disclosures  were  made 
»fter  marriage.  There  is  this  significant  statement  in  the  letter  :  "  and 
"  what's  more  I  want  you  to  understand  that  woman  has  not  the  slightest 
"  claim  on  me.  I  have  cut  away  from  her  absolutely  and  for  ever  and 
"  have  provided  for  her  well". 

1  do  not  at  all  appreciate  the  necessity  for  writing  such  a  letter 
as  P  •  to  the  plaintiff  if  defendant  was  conducting  himself  in  a  proper 
manner. 

In  his  letter  defendant  makes  two  statements  which  on  the  facts  as 
disclosed  in  the  evidence  before  me  are  false  .■  (1)  that  he  had  made 
arrangements  to  get  rid  of  the  woman  on  getting  engaged  to  the  plaintiff, 
and  (2)  that  he  had  cut  himself  away  from  the  woman  and  had  provided 
for  her  well.  As  a  matter  of  fact  he  did  not  get  rid  of  the  woman  on 
getting  engaged  to  plaintiff;  nor  had  he  provided  for  the  woman,  for 
Mr.  VanLangenberg's  evidence  show.^  that  though  an  agreement  had  been 
drawn  up,  it  was  never  signed. 

The  plaintiff  on  receipt  of  the  letter  P  i  answered  it  by  her  letter 
P  2  of  20th  September  1911.  That  letter  is  a  very  sensible  and  trustful 
letter.  She  admires  his  straight-forwardness  but  somehow  she  did  not 
think  her  lover  was  as  other  men  are.    She   tells  defendant    that  she  did 


140  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 

Sawei'  V,     not  understand  at  the  time  of  their    conversation  in  June,  1911,  what   he 
TriDgham    meant  when  he  used  the  word  "encumbrances",     I    believe  her  when  she 
stated  in  the    witness    box    that     she     thought   the   word     referred  to 
pecuniary  matters.     She   was  subsequently  enlightened  on  the  point. 

Mr.  I'hilpot  in  his  letter  of  the  16th  September  1911  D  i  told  the 
woman  Kose  to  come  to  him  Ion  Monday  morning  by  the  6.30  o'clock 
train,  that  would  be  thf^  18th  September,  1911.  The  defendant  says  that  It 
was  two  days  after  he  had  written  the  letter  Pi  of  17th  September  1911 
that  he  went  to  Mr.  Philpot's  bungalow  at  Yatiy.in tola  :  that  he  heard 
that  the  woman  had  gone  back  to  Mr.  Philpot ;  that  he  went  to  Mr. 
Philpot's  to  remove  the  woman,  that  the  woman  dii  not  ask  for  his 
assistance  but  that  he  went  of  his  own  accord.  How  does  this  tally  with 
his  statement  in  the  letter  P  i  that  he  had  "cut  away  from  the  woman 
absolutely  and  for  ever  ?" 

The  defendant  having  heard  that  the  woman  had  gone  to  Mr.  Philpot 
on  the  18th  September,  1911,  followed  her  on  the  19th  September  1911. 

Two  visits  were  paid  by  defendant  (accompanied  by  Mr.  Sutcliffe,  a 
friend)  to  Mr.  Philpot.  The  first  visit  was  on  the  2oth  September  1911  on 
which  date  nothing  appears  to  have  been  done  ;  for  the  two  gentlemen 
returned  to  Colombo.  The  second  visit  was  on  the  2l8t  September,  1911, 
when  Mr.  Sutolifl'c  accompanied  defendant  in  a  motor  car.  It  was  before 
starting  on  this  second  visit  that  defendant  wrote  plaintiff  the  letter  P  3 
of  the  21st  September,  1911  from  the  Grand  Oriental  Hotel,  This  letter  is 
most  important.  The  defendant  dropped  the  ''pet"  name  of  plaintiff  and 
call  her  Blanehe  instead  of  Barney,  and  he  began  his  letter  by  saying  that 
in  the  circumstances  it  was  necessary  that  he  should  be  formal,  ''I  write 
to  ask  you"  wrote  defendant,  "in  your  own  interests  as  to  your  future 
"  happiness  &c  to  release  me  from  my  engagemsnt  to  you.  My  letter  the 
"  other  day  would  have  partly  explained  everything,  and  all  I  need  further 
"  mention  is  that  I  have  been  on  Mr.  Philpot's  tracks  since  Tuesday 
"  morning.  I  went  up  to  Yatiyantota  by  motor  j  with  Mr.  Sutcliffe  last 
'•  afternoon  and  returned  here  at  6  this  morning,  I  am  going  up  again 
"  now.    You  can  draw  your  own  conclusions,  and   it  will  suffice  if  I  were 

'■to  say  that  Mr.  Sutcliffe  practically  knows  all  details  now I  shall  in 

"  all  probability  leave  the  Island  very;shortly". 

The  defendant  says  that  in  this  letter  he  did  not  refuse  to  marry  the 
plaintiff,  but  that  he  gave  her  the  option  of  releasing  him  from  the  engage- 
ment. I  cannot  construe  the  letter  in  that  way.  The  facts  which  led  up 
to  the  writting  of  that  letter  must  also  be  considered.  Why  did  the 
defendant  follow  the  woman  Rose  to  Mr.    Philpot's  bungalow  on  the  19tb 


COURT  OF  APPAL  CASES  141 

epteimbei'  1911  .'  The  womn  Afd;it  of  her  own  accord  and  did  not  appeal  Sawer  v. 
to  defendant  for  help.  I  asked  several  times  during  the  course  of  the  Tringhara 
trial  for  an  explanation  from  the  defendant  of  his  conduct  and  the 
explanation  given  to  me  is  not  a  truthful  on«.  It  was  not  because  the 
woman  had  been  good  and  kind  to  defendant  for  several  years 
but  because  defendant  wished  to  have  her  back  again  as  his  mistress.  I 
accept  Mr.  Philpot's  evidence  that,  before  taking  the  woman  away,  the 
defendant  said  he  was  'Hiite  willing  to  write  a  letter  "there  and  then"  to 
the  plaintiff  breaking  off  the  engagement.  This  letter  Pi  coupled  with 
the  defendant's  conduct  both  before  and  after  he  wrote  the  letter,  indicates 
to  my  mind  a  clear  determination  on  the  part  of  the  defendant  to  break 
off  the  engagement,  and  I  hold  that  the  defendant  did  refuse  to  marry  the 
plaintiff.  The  plaintiff'  treated  it  as  a  refusal  to  marry  her  for  she  handed 
the  letter  to  her  father.  Corroboration  of  the  refusal  if  requirea  is  shown 
by  the  letter  ef  the  18th  October,  1911,  P  s  a  letter  dictated  by  a  lawyer 
but  the  postscript  is  the  defendant's  own  idea.  His  willingness  to  marry 
is  not  a  truthful  statement,  for  he  threatens  her  with  the  risk  of  "future 
developments"  if  she  does  marry  him.  The  letters  P  ■>  and  P  i  3  are  clear 
indications  what  the  state  of.mind  of  the  defendant  was  when  he  wrote  P3. 

Mr.  Koch  referred  me  to  Ro/moe's  Nisi  Prinn  Evidence,  Ynlume  1,  page 
496,  where  it  is  laid  down  that  to  prove  the  breach  there  must  be  evidence 
that  a  tender  has  been  made  by  the  plaintiff'  followed  by  a  refusal  on  the 
part  of  the  defendant.  But  it  cannot  be  contended  that  there  must  be 
such  evidence  where  the  refusal  to  marry  is  first  made  by  the  defendant, 
f  defendant's  contention  is  to  jirevail,  after  such]  refusal,  the  plaintiff' 
must  make  a  tender  which  must  be  followed  byjanother  refusal  on  def- 
endants part. 

As  there  was  a  refusal  to  marry  the  next  question  to  decide  is  whether 
a  cause  of  action  accrued  to  the  plaintiff  to  institute  the  action  before  the 
expiry  of  the  date  fixed  for  the  wedding  to  Avit :  the  9th  November,  1911  .' 

In  Hochester  v.  De  La  Tour  i  the  defendant  had  agreed  to  employ  the 
plaintiff  as  a  courier  from  a  date  subsequent  to  the  date  of  the  writ,  and 
the  alleged  breach  of  agreement  was,  that,  before  the  day  for  the  com- 
mencement of  the  employment,  defendant  refused  to  perform  the  agree- 
ment and  discharged  plaintiff'  from  performing  it  and  wrongfully  wholly 
put  an  end  to  the  agreement.  It  was  held  that  a  party  to  an  executor^' 
agreement  may  before  the  time  for  executing  it  bieak  off  the  agreement 
either  by  disabling  himself  from  fulfilling  it,  or  by  renouncing  the  contract  ; 
and  that  an  action  will  lie  for  such  breach  before  the  time  for  the  fulfil- 
ment of  the  agreement.  This  principle  was  applied  in  the  case  of  Frost 
c.  Knight  2  which  was  an  action  for  breach  of  promise  of  tnarriage, 
A    (_18SS)  (^.  E  ^-  B  679;   118  E.  R  92')    S.        (_lS7r)   (_£6  Z,  T.  77) 


142  COURT    OF     APPEAL    CASFS 

Sawer  v.  In  FniKt  v.  Knight  the  defendant  promised  the  plaintief  that  he 
Ti-ingham  „ould  marry  her  on  the  death  of  the  defendant's  father.  Before 
the  death  of  his  father,  the  defendant  announced  his  absolute 
determination  never  to  fulfil  [the  promise.  Cookburn  G.  J.  said 
.'It  is  therefore  quite  right  to  hold  that  such  an  announcement  amounts  to 
a  Tiolation  of  the  contract  in  omiubus  and  that  upon  it  the  promisee  if  so 
minded  may  at  once  treat  it  as  a  breach  of  the  entire  contract  and  bring 
his  action  accordingly.  The  contract  having  been  thus  broken  by  the 
promisor  and  treated  as  broken  by  the  promisee  performance  at  the 
appointed  time  becomes  e.->ccluded,  and  the  breach  by  reason  of  future  non- 
performance becomes  virtually  involved  in  the  action  as  one  of  the  con- 
sequences of  the  repudiation  of  the  contract;  and  the  eventual  non-per- 
formance may  therefore  by  anticipation  be  treated  iis  a  cause  of  action  and 
damages  be  assessed  and  recovered  in  respect  of  it  though  the  time  for 
performance  may  yet  be  remote" 

On  the  authority  of  Fi'ost  r.  Knitjlit  I  accordingly  hold  that  it  was 
competent  for  the  plaintiff  to  at  once  regard  the  contract  as  broken  in  all 
its  obligations  and  consequences  and  sue  for  the  breach  thereof. 

As  I  have  held  in  plaintiff's  favour  on  the  first  issue,  she  is  con- 
sequently entitled  to  damages  for  defendant's  breach  of  his  promise  to 
marry.  There  is  no  rule  by  which  the  assessment  of  damages  can  he 
regulated  but  various  circumstances  have  been  ruled  to  be  admissible  in 
mitigation  or  in  aggi'avatinn,  The  conduct  of  the  defendant  must  be  con- 
sidered and  the  way  in  which  he  has  treated  the  plaintiff.  Though  the 
plaintiff  has  been  saved  from  an  unhappy  married  life  yet  as  Bowen  L.  .T. 
said  in  FinUy  r  Chir/u'y  i  "on  which  side  of  the  lin.T  is  to  fall  an 
action  which  is  based  on  the  hypothesis  of  a  broken  contract  yet 
is  attended  with  some  of  the  special  consequences  of  a  personal  wrong 
and  in  which  damages  may  be  given  of  a  vindictive  and  uncertain  kind 
not  merely  to  repay  the  plaintiff  for  temporal  loss  but  to  punish  the  def- 
endant in  an  exemplary  manner" 

Nathan  Volvmr  1.  hSrH ion  365,  ^^aye  ^05  lays  it  down  in  an  action  for 
breach  of  promise  to  marry  that  the  injured  party  can  recover,  in  addition 
to  certain  other  matters,  prospective  ilamages  for  loss  of  position,  wealth, 
or  other  advantages.  The  Roman  Dutch  Law  does  not  justify  my  award, 
ing  vindictive  damages. 

Taking  all  the  circumstances  of  this  case  into  consideration,  I  award 
the  plaintiff  the  sum  of  Rs,  5, COO/-  as  and  for  damages.  The  plaintiff  will 
also  have  her  costs  of  the  action. 

1.     (_1S8S)  5S.  L,  T.  G6S, 


COURT     OF    APPEAL     CASES  143 

A.   6t.  V.  Jai/eivardene   (with    F.   H.  B,   Koch)  for   the    Sawer  v. 

appellant. — The  learned  District  Judge  was  wrong  in  holding 

there  was  a  breach  of  the  promise  in  as  much  as  there   is  no  Lascelles 

wi  J* 

evidence  on  record  to  show  either  an  express   refusal  on  tha 

part  of  the  appellant  to  carry  out  the  contract,  or  an  absolute 
determination  to  break  off  the  promise.  The  defendant  not 
having  incapacitated  himself  from  marrying  and  the  promise 
being  a  general  promise,  there  must  evidence  of  an  absolute 
renunciation  to  constitute  a  breach  (see  Frost  v  Knight  * ; 
Hochester  v.  De  La  Tour  ^).  [Lascelles  C.  J.  The  conduct  of 
the  appellant  has  been  bad  throughout].  That  fact  does  not 
affect  the  present  question.  The  appellant's  bad  conduct 
would  have  been  a  ground  for  the  respondent  to  break  off 
the  engagement  but  certainly  would  not  entitle  her  to  sue 
for  damages.  [Be  Sampayo  A.  J.  Would  not  the  continued 
intention  of  the  appellant  to  kec^)  his  mistress  constitute  a 
breach  of  promise  ?]  It  is  submitted  not.  A  refusal  to  carry 
out  the  contract  cannot  be  inferred  from  conduct  ('see 
Halshurifs  Laws  of  England  Vol :  16  para  504). 

Elliol,  for  the  respondent  was  not  called  upon. 

c.  a.  V. 

Lascelles  0.  J. — ^This  is  an  appeal  fi'ojn  a  judgment 
of  the  District  Judge  of  Colombo  condemning  the  defendant 
to  pay  Rs.  5000  as  damages  for  breach  of  a  promise  to  marry 
the  plaintifl'. 

The  case  went  to  trial  on  two  issues,  namely,  (1)  did 
defendant  in  breach  of  his  promise  to  marry  plaintiff  refuse 
to  marry  plaintiff  and  (2)  If,  so,  what  damages  has  the 
plaintiff  sustained  i'  The  appeal  was  confined  to  the  former 
issue  with  regard  to  which  it  was  contended  that  the  learned 
District  Judge  was  wrong  in  his  finding  that  the  breach  by 
the  defendant  by  his  promise  to  marry  the  plaintiff  was 
proved.  On  the  appeal  the  case  of  Frost  v.  Knight  ^  was 
relied  on  as  authority  for  the  proposition  that  an   action  for 

1.    5  L.  R.  E.-V  SS2        S.    -;'  E    4-  B.  n?S. 


144  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 

Sawer   v.    breach  of  promise  cannot  be  maintained  unless  the  defendant ' 
Trangham    ^^^^     explicitly   expressed   his   intention   not    to   fulfil  the 
Lascelles  contract  and  that  a  refusal  to  carry  out   the  contract  cannot 
be  inferred  from  the   conduct  of   the   defendant.     But  this 
case  which  follows  the  principle   laid   down   in   Hochester  v. 
De  La  Tour  '  dealt  with  the  special   case  where   the  promise 
is  to  marry  at  or  after  a  certain  time   or  is   conditional,  and 
the  alleged  breach  of  the  promise  takes  place  before  the  time 
had  elapsed  or  the  condition   had  been  fulfilled.     No   such 
consideration  can  apply  to  the    present   case,  for  it   was  not 
of  the  essence  of  the  contract  that  the  wedding   should   take 
place  on  the  9th  ; November;  that   date  had   been  fixed  as  a 
matter  of  convenience  but  it  was  not  an  essential  term  in  the 
contract  that  the  marriage   should   take   place   on  or   before 
that  date.     Here  the   question   whether   the   defendant  has 
committed  a  breach  of  his  promise  to  marry  the   plaintiff  is 
a  simple  question  of  fact  which  must  be  decided,  apart  from 
any  technical  considerations,    on  a   survey  of  the   whole  of 
the  evidence.     The  learned  District  Judge  has  held  that  the 
letter  P''  written  by  the  defendant  to  the  plaintiff  on  the  21st 
September,  1911,  conpled  with  the  defendant's  conduct  both 
before  and  after  he  wrote  the  letter,  indicates  a  clear  intent- 
ion on  the  part  of  the  defendant  to  break  off  the  engagement. 
I  entirely  agree  with  the  finding  of  the  District   Judge  and 
think  that  any  other  construction  of  the  letter  would  be 
repugnant  to  good  sense.     The  letter  P  ^  is  as  follows: — 

"The  Grand  Orintal  Hotel 

Colombo,  21st  Sept :  1911. 

My  Dear  Blanche, 

Excuse  formality,  but  under  the  circumstances  I  con- 
sider it  is  necessary.  1  write  to  ask  you  in  your  own  iutrests 
as  to  your  future  happiness  etc  to  release  me  from  my 
engagement  to  you. 

L     2  E.  Sf  B.  678 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES'  145 

My  letter  the  other  day  would   have   partly  explained    Sawer  v. , 
every  thing,  and  all  I  need  further  mention   is,  that   I  have         ° 
been  on  Mr.  Philpot's   tracks    since    Tuesday    morning.     I  Lascelles, 
went  up  to   Yatiyantota   by    motor   with   Mr.  Sutclifife   last 
afternoon  and  returned  here  at  6  this  morning.    I  am  going 
up  again  now.     You  can  draw  your  own   conclusions  and  it 
will  suffice  if    I  were  to  say    that    Mr    Sutcliffie  practically 
knows  all  details  now  and  I  am  sure   would  be  glad   to  tell 
either    Mr.  Sawer  or   self  as  much  as  he    knows  about    the 
afPair.     Unfortunately  he  cannot  give  any  details  to  anyone 
of  the  lady  members  of  the   family.     1  am  sure   that   when 
Mr.  Sawer  and  the  other    members  of   your  family   hear  all 
details  they  will  agree  with  me  that  this  is  my  most  honour- 
able course  and  is  in  both  of  our  interests. 

Please  write  on  to  Rozelle,  I  am  going  up  by  night  mail 
to  night.  I  shall  in  all  probability  leave  the  Island  very 
shortly. 

Yours  Affectionately 
Harry  " 

The  learned  District  Judge  has  disb-elieved  the  def- 
endant's statement  by  this  letter  he  intended  no  more  than 
to  give  the  plaintiff  the  option  of  releasing  him  from  his 
engagement  if  she  wished  to  do  so.  In  this  I  entirely  agree 
with  the  learned  District  Judge.  On  the  17th  September, 
the  defendant  wrote  to  the  plaintiff  the  letter  P  ^  in  which 
he  disclosed  to  the  latter  the  fact  that  he  had  been  keeping 
a  native  mistress  for  several  years  and  stated  that  he  had  cut 
himself  away  from  the  woman.  This  latter  statement,  as 
well  as  several  other  statements  in  the  letter,  was  quite  un- 
true. On  the  20th  September  the  plaintiff  replied  by  an 
affectionate  and  trustful  letter  P  ^  in  which  she,  in  effect 
offers  to  overlook  the  defendant's  past  on  the  understanding 
that  the  defendant  would  completely  sever  his  connection, 
witn  his  native  mistress.  Before  receiving  this  letter,  the 
defendant  wrote  the  letter  P  ^.  At  the  time  when  the  def- 
endant wrote  the  letter  P  ;:    he  was  [engaged  in  a   persistent 


HG  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Sawer  v.  eudeuvour  to  recovei-  his  native  mistress  from  Mr.  Philpot 
and  that  gentleman  lias  deposed,  and  the  Judge  has  accepted 
Lascelles  j^jg  evidence,  that  the  defendant  had  avowed  his  intention 
of  breaking  ofE  his  engagement  to  the  plaintiff.  If  the  def- 
endant had  meant  no  more  than  the  offer  to  release  the 
plaintiff'  from  her  engagement,  it  is  incredible  that  he  should 
not  have  answered  her  letter  P  -.  I  cannot  accept  the  ex- 
planation that  the  defendant  had  in  the  meantime  received 
an  angry  letter  from  the  plaintiff's  father.  If  the  defendant 
had  not  resolved  to  break  off'  his  engagement  with  the  plain- 
tiff he  would  not  have  left  this  letter  unanswered.  The 
letter  of  tlie  hSth  October,  written  under  legal  advice  after 
action  brought,  aud  expressing  the  defendant's  willingness 
to  marry  tlie  plaintiff'  is  no  indication  of  the  defendant's 
attitude  when  he  wrote  the  letter  P  ^.  The  former  letter 
was  written  to  give  colour  to  the  defence  which  the  def- 
i-'udant  was  advised  to  set  up.  The  fact  that  the  defendant, 
at  the  time  of  the  trial,  was  still  living  with  his  native 
mistress  demonstrates  the  insincerity  of  the  defence  on 
which  he  now  relies  and  shown  the  vahie  which  should  be 
attached  lo  the  defendant's  statement  in  the  letter  P  '  that 
he  had  cut  off  the  woman  absolutely  and  for  ever.  Tliatthe 
defendant  intended  by  the  letter  P  ■'  to  terminate  his  engage- 
ment to  the  plaintiff'  is  proved  beyond  all  doubt  and  I  place 
no  credence  whatsoever  oii  the  defendant's  statement  that 
the  letter  was  written  ^^•ith  any  other  intention.  ' 

1  ^\ullld  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Sampayo  A.  J.— 1  agree. 


Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctors  for  appellant— D.  L.  and  F.  De  Saram. 
Proctor  for  respondent— ^/7/»(/-  AU-is. 


COURT    OP    APPEAL    CASES.  147 

RAMEN    CHETTY    v.    SILVA. 
No.  26,251,  C.  R.  Colombo. 

Present:    WoodRenton  J, 

3l3tMay,  1912. 

Contracts  by  a  minor — ratification  —Roman  Dutch  Law. 

The  Roman  Dutch  Law  as  to  the  ratifleatioB  of  a  minor's  contracts 
after  majority  is  in  force  in  this  Colony, 

Contracts  which  are  neither  certainly  to  a  minor's  prejudice  nor 
necessarily  for  his  benefit  are  neither  void  nor  absolutely  valid  but  are 
voidable  and  capable  of  confirmation  after  majority. 

Obiter.  The  mere  fact  that  the  minor  was  living  with  his  father  at 
the  time  he  borrowed  the  money  and  the  money  was  to  be  applied  to  get 
his  father  employment  which  would  add  to  his  ability  to  maintain  the 
minor  would  not  be  sufficient  to  make  the  contract  a  beneficial  one  within 
the  meaning  of  the  Common  Law. 

In  this  case  the  plaintiff  sued  the  defendant  on  a 
promissory  note  to  recover  the  sum  of  Rs.  200.  The  pro- 
missory note  was  made  for  Rs.  100  in  1905  when  the  defen- 
dant was  a  minor.  In  1909,  the  defendant  who  had  then 
become  a  major  paid  the  plaintiff  a  sum  of  Rs.  25.  The 
defendant  pleaded  that  he  was  a  minor  at  the  time  of  the 
making  of  the  note  and  further  that  the  amount  had  been 
paid.  The  following  issues  were  framed  ;  (1)  was  the  de- 
fendant a  minor  at  the  time  of  granting  the  note  sued  on 
(2)  If  so,  is  the  note  invalid  ?  (.S)  Even  if  he  were  a  minor 
has  he  ratified  the  obligation  by  subsequent  payment  of  Rs.  25 
on  the  note  ?  (4)  what  sum,  if  any,  is  due  to  the  plaintiff? 
The  learned  Commissioner  held  that  the  defendant  was  a 
minor  but  the  note  was  valid  as  the  money  was  borrowed 
for  the  purpose  of  securing  an  employment  to  the  minor's 
father  with  whom  he  was  living.  He  also  held  that  the 
defendant  ratified  the  contract  by  his  payment  of  Rs.  25 
after  he  became  a  major.  He  accordingly  gave  judgment 
for  the  plaintiff  with  costs.     The  defendant  appealed. 


148  COURT    OF    APPEA.L    CASES 

Eamen  H.  A.  Jayctivardene   (with    Cooray)  for  the  appellant. — 

g;iya  '  There  is  no  proof  that  the  minor   was  benefiteil  by  the 

contract.     On  the  othefhand  there  is  direct  evidence  which 
Wood 
Renton  J.  has   been   accepted  by  the  Commissioner  to  show  thwt  the 

money  was  borrowed  for  the  exclusive  benefit  of  his  father, 

namely,  to  secure  an  employment  for  the  latter.     Therefore 

the  note  is  invalid. .    Welliappa  Chetty  v.  Peris.  ^ 

The  Roman  Dutch  Law  of  ratification  cannot  be  said  to 
have  been  introduced  into  Ceylon;  otherwise  there  would  be 
some  direct  local  authority  on  the  point.  Counsel  relied  on 
Ounesekera  H amine  v.  Don  Baron  -. 

W.  E.  Ferera  for  the  respondent. — Under  the  R.  D.  L.  a 
minor  could  upon  coming  of  age  either  espressly  or  tacitly 
ratify  a  contract  made  during  minority.  A  tacit  ratification  is 
presumed  from  payment  made  or  accepted  after  attaining 
majority.  (See  Voei  44.  7.  2.  cited  iu  Maasdorp  Vol.  Ill  p. 
17  and  Voet  26.  8.  4.  cited  in  Masdorp  Vol.  I  p.  847.  There 
is  nothing  to  show  that  the  Roman  Dutch  Law  on  the  subject 
is  not  in  force  in  Ceylon. 

H.  A.  Jayewardene  in  reply. 

c.  a.  V. 

Wood  Renton  J.— The  plaintiff  respondent  sued  the 
defendant  appellant  in  this  action  to  recover  a  sum  of  Rs. 
200  on  a  promissory  note.  The  appellant  pleaded  that  he 
was  a  minor  at  the  time  of  the  making  of  the  note.  There 
was  no  replication  by  the  respondent,  but  the  issues  raised 
two  further  points,  namely  whether,  assuming  the  minority 
at  the  time  of  making  the  note,  the  note  was  invalid,  and 
whether  the  appellant  had  not  ratified  the  obligation  by  a 
subsequent  payment  of  Rs.  2.5  upon  the  note.  The  learned 
Commissioner  of  Requests  held  that  minority  had  been 
proved,  that  the  loan  was  beneficial  to  the  appellant,  and 
that,  therefore,  the  note  was  not  invalid,  and  further  that 
the  appellant  had  ratified  it  after  majority  by  the  subsequent 
payment  above  referred  to.     There  is  no  appeal  in   this  case 

1.    (1906)  3  Bal  4.        S.    {19SS)  5  N.L.B.  S7S. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES  149 

upon  the  facts.  1  am  doubtful  whether,  upon  the  findings  ch'^tt^" 
of  the  learned  Commissioner  of  Requests,  ilie  loan  in  respect  ^''^* 
of  which  the  note  was  granted  could  be  said  to  liave  been  Wood 
for  the  minor's  benefit-  The  Commissioner  of  Requests 
accepts  the  statement  of  the  appellant  that  lie  borrowed  the 
mone}'  exclusively  for  his  father's  use.  If  that  were  so  I  do 
not  think  that  the  mere  fact  that  the  minor  was  living  with 
his  father,  and  that  the  money  was  to  be  applied  to  get  his 
father  employment,  which  would  add  to  his  ability  to 
maintain  the  minor  would  he  sufficient  to  make  the  contract 
a  beneficial  one  within  the  meaning  of  the  common  law.  It 
is  unnecessary,  however,  to  decide  this  point,  as  the  appellant 
also  states,  and  this  is  much  more  probable,  that  he  required 
the  money  for  himself.  The  loan  was,  therefore,  beneficial 
and  could  be  ratified.  I  think  that  the  decision  of  the 
Commissioner  of  Requests  on  the  issue  of  ratification  is 
clearly  right.  The  witness  Ramen  Chetty,  father  in  law  of 
SoUamuttu  Chetty,  the  payee  on  the  note,  now  deceased, 
proved  a  payment  and  a  promise  of  a  further  payment  by 
the  appellant  subsequent  to  his  becoming  a  major,  and  gave 
evidence  also  of  a  similar  payment  and  promise  by  the 
appellant  to  the  deceased  payee.  The  proof  of  the  latter 
payment  and  promise  consisted  of  statements  made  by  the 
payee  to  his  father-in-law  Ramen  Chetty.  Mr.  Hector 
■Jayewardene,  the  appellant's  Counsel,  argued  that  evidence 
of  these  statements  was  not  admissible  even  under  §  32  (2) 
of  the  Evidence  Ordinance,  in  as  much  as  there  was  nothing 
to  show  that  they  were  made  "in  the  ordinary  course  of 
"business".  The  evidence  in  the  record  proves,  howefVer, 
Sollamuttu  Chetty,  the  deceased  payee,  had  been  in  the 
habit  of  consulting  his  iather-in-law  Ramen  Chetty  in 
business  matters,  that  he  sent  for  him  to  go  to  India,  where 
he  was  lying  ill,  for  the  express   purpose  of  entrusting  him 


150  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Eamen     with  the  collection  of  the  appellant's  debt  and  of  other  debts 

Silva      also,  and  that  Ramen   Chetty  was  attending   to  his  business 

..r    J      while  he  was  ill.     Under  these   circumstances,  I   think  that 
Wooo 

Renton  J.  the  statements  made  by  SoUamuttu  Chetty  to  Ramen  Chetty 
may  fairly  be  said  to  have  been  made  in  the  ordinary  course 
of  business. 

Mr.  Hector  Jayewardene  also  argued  that  the  Roman 
Dutch  Law  t)f  ratification  of  contracts  by  a  minor  was  not 
in  force  in  Ceylon.  Ko  direct  authority  was  cited  to  me,  nor 
am  I  aware  of  any,  in  support  of  this  proposition,  and  all 
that  Mr.  Jayewardene  could  say  was  that  there  was  no 
reported  case  in  which  that  doctrine  had  been  recognised. 
He  referred  also  to  the  decision  of  the  Supreme  Court  in 
Gunesekera  Hamine  v.  Don  Baron  ^  that  a  donation  by  a  minor 
unassisted  by ,  a  guardian  cannot  be  ratified  subsequently 
when  the  minor  comes  of  age.  The  ratio  decidendi  in  that 
case  was  that  a  donation  cannot  possibly  he  beneficial  to  the 
donor  and  Wendt  J.  in  the  course  of  his  judgment  quotes  a 
passage  from  Thomson  ^  to  the  efl:ect  that  contracts  which 
are  neither  certainly  to  a  minor's  prejudice  nor  necessarily 
for  his  benefit  are  neither  void  nor  absolutely  valid,  but  are 
voidable  and  capable  of  confirmation  after  majority.  In 
this  passage  Thomson  is  stating  the  law  of  Ceylon, 

I  see  no  reason  to  doubt  but  that  the  Roman  Dutch  Law  as 
to  the  ratification  of  a  minor's  contracts  after  majority  is  in 
force  in  this  colony. 

The  appeal  is  dismissed  with  costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant— C  M.  Brito. 
Proctor  for  respondent— J.  6.  Fernando. 


(1)    (1902)  5  N.L.B.Z/3.  (2)    Institutes,  Vol.2.  f.2U. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES.  151 

SINNETAMBY    t:    TANGAMMA. 

No.  390  1).  C,  Batticaloa. 

Pm«M<.- Lascelles  C>  J.  &  Wood  Renton  «l, 

5th  June  1912. 

Stamps — petition  of  appeal — value  of  whole  estate  and  not  appellant's 
interest — insufjiqiently     siampied  -  supply  of  deficieiiey — time  limit, 

A  petition  of  appeal  ought  to  be  stamped  according  to  the  scale  appli- 
cable to  the  claS3  to  which  it  belongs  and  not  accoi'ding  to  the  value  of  the 
appellant's  interest  in  the  estate. 

Where  a  petition  of  appeal  has  been  insufficiently  stamped  the 
deficiency  cannot  be  supplied  after  the  time  limit  has  expired. 

Salgado  r.  Peiris  i  followed. 

This  is  a  testamentary  case.  Tlie  petitioner-appellant 
who  was  entitled  to  ^^  share  of  the  estate  applied  to  the 
Court  for  an  order  on  the  administratix-respoudent  direct- 
ing her  to  assign  the  appellant's  ,'.,  share  to  him.  After 
inquiry  the  learned  District  Judge  disallowed  the  applicat- 
ion and  the  petitioner  appealed.  His  petition  of  appeal  was 
stamped  on  the  value  of  ^\  share  of  the  estate. 

Bartholomeusz  for  the  respondent,  took  the  preliminary 
objection  that  the  petition  of  appeal  was  not  sufficiently 
stamped.  The  Schedule  in  part  3  of  the  stamp  ordinance 
regulates  stamp  duties  in  testamentary  proceedings.  According 
to  that  schedule  a  petition  of  appeal  onght  to  be  stamped 
according  to  the  scale  of  the  class  to  which  the  proceedings 
belong. 

The  appellant  cannot  be  allowed  to  remedy  the  defect 
after  the  time  limit  has  expired.     Salgado  v.  Peiris  '. 

/.  Joseph  for  the  appellant. — The  appellant  is  interested 
in  only  iV  ot  the  estate  and  the  matter  in  dispute  is  only  yV 
of  the  estate  and  the  appeal  is  therefore  sufficiently  stamped. 
If  the  Court  holds  that  the  appeal  is  insufficiently  stamped 
the  appellant  may  be  allowed  to  supply  the  deficiency  under 
§  87  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance. 

Lascelles,  O.  J- — There  can   be  no   doubt   from  the 
letter  of  the  petitioner's  Proctor  which  has  been  forwarded 
to  us  by  the  District  Judge    that  the   petition  of   appeal  ias 
1.  (lOOd)  13  N.L.B.  S79. 


152  COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES, 

Sinnetamby  been  insufficiently  stamped.  According  to  the  schedule  in 
V,  Tangammapg^,.(.  3  q^  ^j^g  gtamp  Ordinance,  a  petition  of  appeal  ought  to 
Lascelles  'J6  stamped  according  to  tlie  scale  applicable  to  the  class  to 
C.  J.  which  it  belongs.  Here,  the  petition  of  appeal  has  not  been 
stamped  on  the  value  of  the  estate,  but  on  the  value  of  the 
1/12  interests  of  the  appellant  in  the  estate.  It  is  not  serious- 
ly contended,  and  it  cannot  be  contended  that  the  petition 
of  appeal  is  properly  stamped.  Then  the  only  question 
which  remains  is  whether  the  appellant  is  to  be  allowed  to 
supply  the  deficiency  now.  On  that  point  we  are  bound  by 
the  judgment  of  the  Full  Court  in  Sale/ado  v.  Peiris  1.  There 
it  was  held  that  the  proper  stamping  of  a  petition  of  appeal 
within  the  appealable  time,  was  a  condition  precedent  to  its 
acceptance  under  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  This  decision, 
with  which  I  entirely  agree,  is  applicable  to  the  present 
case,  and  is  fatal  to  the  present  appeal.  Counsel  for  the 
appellant  has  referred  to  §  87  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance,  but 
I  am  of  opinion  that  this  section  has  no  application  to  the 
present  case.  That  section  deals  with  a  case  where  instru- 
ments in  a  testamentary  suit  are  unstamped  owing  to  the 
estate  being  undervalued,  or  from  other  similar  causes.  Then 
it  is  the  duty  of  the  Secretary  of  tha  District  Court,  on  the 
first  Monday  of  every  quarter,  to  prepare  a  statement  show- 
ing the  deficiency  of  stamp  duty,  and  the  Judge  there 
requires  the  party  who  tendered  the  instrument  to  make 
good  the  deficiency.  This  section  has  obviously  no  bearing 
on  the  condition  subject  to  which  a  petition  of  appeal  can 
be  accepted,  One  of  those  conditions  is  that  the  petition  of 
appeal  must  be  duly  stamped  within  the  appealable  time.  I 
am  therefore,  of  opinion  that  no  proper  petition  of  appeal 
has  been  presented  as  required  by  the  Civil  Procedure  Code, 
and  that  the  appeal,  therefore,  fails  and  must  be  dismissed 
with  costs. 

Wood  Ronton,  J.— I  agree. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant— T.  A.  Sethukaveler . 
Proctor  foi-  respondent — /.  Kadramatamby . 

1.    (1000)  IS  N.  L.  B.  070. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  153 

ABDUL  HASSEN  HADJIAR  /•.  LEVANA  MARIKAR. 

No.  10347  D.  C.  Galle. 
Vrehent:  Lascelles  C.  Ji  &  Wood  Renton,  «J. 

ISth  June  1912. 

Ciril  Proceduir  Cudr  §  547 — tramfer  iif  prirpertij  over  imr  thoiimml 
I'njiixx — pnibatior  niliiiiitintnitwit  not  tahvn  imi — pinal  prut  hi  on, — protect- 
iliit  nf  reri'iiiii' — jinircr  of  Court  to  ifoi/  proimlhii/x  till  plaintiff  obtains 
letters  of  adwini'^trotion, 

5  ."il7  of  thu  Code  while  it  penalises  does  not  prohibit  the  transfer  of 
property  which  ouKht  to  have  been  but  which  has  not  been  administered 
and  such  a  transfer  is  not  necessarily  invalid. 

The  penalties  imposed  liy  that  section  arc  exhaustive,  and  the  principal 
and  the  onlj-  object  of  the  penalty  is  the  protection  of  the  revenue. 

The  District  Court  has  power  to  stay  proceedings  and  allow  an 
opportunity  to  the  plaintiff  to  take  out  letters  of  administration  before  the 
action  is  further  proceeded  with. 

Qiioneiutiui  r.  Haminr  l  followed. 

The  facts  oi  the  case  are  given  as  follows  in  the  judg- 
ment of  Lascelles  C.  J.  : 

This  is  a  partition  action  in  which  the  plaintiff  claimed 
in  addition  to  another  share  with  regard  to  which  no  quest- 
ion arises  on  this  appeal  one-sixth  of  certain  house  property 
ill  Galle  by  virtue  of  a  conveyance  dated  the  2nd  August, 
1 902,  by  which  Natchia  Umma  and  Mohamined  who  are 
stated  to  be  the  widow  and  onlj'  child  of  one  Abdul  Aziz 
purported  to  convey  the  interest  of  Abdul  Aziz  to  the  plain- 
tiff. The  appellant  intervened  and  l^y  his  answer  averred 
that  the  estate  of  Abdul  Aziz  was  over  Rs.  1000  in  value  and 
that  the  conveyance  from  his  widow  and  child  to  the  plain- 
tiff was  invalid  under  §  5i7  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  as 
administration  had  not  been  taken  out.  It  was  conceded 
that  the  estate  of  Abdul  Aziz  exceeded  Rs.  1000  in  value. 
In  the  decision  from  which  the   appeal  is  taken  the  learned 

1.     (L90S)  7   iV.  L.  U.Si99. 


154  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASFS 

Abdul  District  held  (I)  that  the  plaintiff's  claim  in  this  particular 
Hadjiar  v.  action  was  not  an  action  "for   the  recovery   of  land"   within 

Levaiia  ^j^  meaning  of  S  547  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  (2) 
that  in  view  of  any  doubt  which  might  exist  as  to  the 
validity  of  the  conveyance  on  which  the  plaintiff  chiimed 
the  pl'dintitt'  should  be  allowed  on  opportunity  of  oljtaining 
administration.     The   intervenieiit  appealed. 

H.  A.Jaijeioardeae  {A.St.  V.  ■Jaijewanhne  with  him)  for 
the  appellant. — The  effect  of  ^  .!)47  is  to  invalidate  a  transfer 
executed  without  obtaining  letters  of  administration.  The 
legislature  impliedly  prohibited  such  transfers  by  declaring 
rhat  the  transferor  and  transferee  shall  be  guilty  of  an  offence 
and  liable  to  a  penally  of  Ks.  1000.  No  action  can  be  main- 
tained in  respect  of  anything  that  the  legislature  has  exprehs- 
ly  or  impliedly  prohibited  \_L(isoeUes  C.  J.  Is  not  the  penalty 
iu  §  547  enacted  for  the  pui-pose  of  revenue  only?]  It  is 
enacted  for  the  protection  of  the  revenue  as  well  as  for  the 
protection  of  the  public  in  order  to  prevent  persons  passing 
off  bad  titles.  But  whatever  the  object  may  Ije,  if  there  is 
a  prohibition,  the  law  will  not  helji  any  person  to  enforce 
the  prohibited  contract.  Counsel  cited  Gu/j  v,  Fellon  '  Cope 
V.  Rowlands  -  Vidoriaii  Daijlesfoni  v.  Dotl  ^  Feirls  v.  Fernando 
'■  and  03  I).  C.'Kcmdij  21166  ''. 

The  order  of  the  District  Judge  allowing  administration 
to  be  taken  out  after  the  institution  of  the  action  is  wrong. 
The  section  says  that  no  action  shall  be  maintainable  without 
administration  and  the  action  was  bad  at  its  iucepfcion.  The 
couft  has  no- power  to  make  an  order  which  would  have  a 
retrospective  effect. 

The  rights  of  the  parties  must  be  determined  as  at  the 
date  of  the  action.  Silva  v.  Nonahamine  ^,  Ponnamma  v.  Aru- 
muffam  '.     The  latter  case  is  also  an  authority  for  the  propo- 

1.     (ISIS)  i  Taimton  S81.  4.     (1904)  1  Bal  199. 

3.     (l!fS6)   3  M   4-  W.J49.  .5.     S.  C.Min.  nth  June  191S. 

S.     (1905)    il  Ch.  BS4.  6.     (1906)  10  N.  L.  B.  44. 

7.     (1905)SN.L.B.Si2S. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES  155 

sitiop  that  an  objection    based  on  want  of  adininiatration  is      Ahdnl 
not  merely  a  technical  or  fiscal  objection,  and  tliat  a  partition   nadjiar  v. 
suit  ia  in  substance  an  action  for  the  recovery  of  immovable    ^^t??^ 
property    [Lascelles  C.   J.     The   practice   has   been    to    stay 
proceedings  and  order  administration  to  be  taken  ont.]  This       ^_  j_ 
course  has  undoubtedly  been  taken  in   several  cases   but  in 
those  cases  no  objection  was  taken  by  the  opposite   party  to 
the  indulgence  being  granted, 

Baiva  K.  C.  for  the  respondent. — The  terras  of  §  547  clearly 

show  that  the  penalty  was  enacted  for  the   protection  of   the 

revenue.     The  section  empowers  the  Court   to    recover  the 

stamp  duty  where  transfer  has  been  executed  in  violation  of 

that  section.     This  section  was  enacted  for  the   protection  of 

the  public  as  the  full  court  has  held  that   on  the  death   of  a 

person  Mr  property  vests  immediately  in   the  heirs  and   that 

they  require  no  transfer  from  the  administrator  to  pass  title. 

The  effect  of  a  provision  such  as  is   contained  in    §  547  was 

fully  discussed  in  93  D.  C.  Kandfi 2115',  ' .     See  also  MeliM  v. 
Shirley  Local  Board  - 

As  regards  the  power  of  the  Court  to  stay  proceedings 
and  allow  administration  to  be  obtained  such  power  has 
been  exercised  in  many  cases  Ooonerafiip  v.  Eamine  ■''.  The 
word  "maintainable'  '  means  continuing  what  has  already 
been  instituted  and  the  Court  has  power  before  allowing 
an  action  to  continue  to  require  that  administration  should 
be  obtained. 

H.  A.  Jayewanhiie  in  reply. 


Lasoelles  0.  J. — lu  the  appeal  the  legal  questions  involved 
were  very  inWy  discussed  but  there  are  practically  only  two 
questions  for  decision,  namely,  (I)  whether  the  effect  of  § 
547  is  to  invalidate  transfers  of  property  where  administrat- 
ion has  not  been  taken  out    and    (2)    whether    the   learned 

I.    S.C.  Min  .  nth  June  1912.     S.    (1885)  m  Q.B.D.  ^6. 
S.     {1903)7  N.L.B.S99, 


156  COURT    OF     APPEAL    CASES 

Abdul      District  Jutlge  was  right  in  allowing  the   phxintiff  an   oppor- 

M"ikav"v.  tnnity  of  obtaining    aelministration    so  as  to  get    rid  of   the 

Levana      „biection  that  the  action  was  not  maintainable. 
Marikav  ■' 

L«scelles  With  regard  to  the  tirst   iiuestion  it  was   contended  that 

''"'■  it  must  be  inferied  that  the  transfer  was  invalid  from  the 
fact  that  the  section  declares  thatthetraiwferorand  transferee, 
in  a  case  where  property  is  transferred  without  administrat- 
ion having  been  taken  ont  are  guilty  of  an  oflBence  and 
provides  for  their  punishment.  In  a  recent  case  where  an 
analogous  question  came  before  this  court  (1),  I  cited  the 
judgment  of  Lord  Esher  in  .'ileliss  v.  The  Shirley  and  Free 
■  mantle  Loral  Board  of  Health  '  as  a  clear  and  practical  exposit- 
ion of  the  pi'inciple  of  construction  which  should  be  followed 
in  such  cases.  Applying  ihis  test,  it  is  clear  that  the 
principal  and  as  far  as  I  can  see,  the  only  object  of  the 
penalty  is  the  protection  of  the  revenue.  The  heavy  penalty 
which  the  section  imposes  (a  fine  which  may  extend  to  Rs. 
1000.)  justifies  the  inference  that  the  legislature  considered 
that  the  punishment  provided  in  the  section  wonld  be  sufTi- 
cisnt  to  enforce  compliance  with  the  law  without  the  addit- 
ion of  a  further  penalty  in  the  shape  of  the  invalidation  of 
the  transfer,  which  in  some  cases  wonld  be  a  punishment  of 
extreme  severity.  Then  th?re  is  the  provision  enabling  the 
Crown  to  recover  from  the  transferoi-  and  transferee  the 
amount  of  the  stamp  duty  payable  on  administration.  This, 
I  think,  to  some  extent  is  an  admission  of  the  validity  of 
the  transfer,  for  if  the  transfer  were  invalid  why  should  the 
transfei'ee  who  would  have  no  interest  in  the  estate  be  held 
responsible  for  administration  duty  ? 

Looking  at  the  section  as  a  whole  I  am  of  opinion  that 
the  penalties  imposed  by  the  section  are  exhaustive,  and  that 
the  Legislature  deliberately  lefrained  from  invalidating  the 
transfer.  It  is  not  for  us  to  speculate  on  the  reasons  which 
determined  the  Legislatui'e  to  take  this   course.     But   there 

1.    10  Q.B.D.  U6. 


COURT  OF  APPAL  CASES  157 

avp,  nt  leiist,  two    circnmstaiicps    which    can    hm-dlv    have      Abdul 
escaped  consideration.     'I'he   invalidation    oC  tlie  transfer    in  Marikar   t. 
these  cases  would  be  a  punishment  of  extr(Mne  severity:  in     -vj  *-?°r 
many  cases  as  where  it  was   honestly  believed  the   property 
was  under  Rs.  1000  it  would  amount  to  grave  injustice.     But.      g.  J, 
tlie  punishment  would  be  unfair  in  its  incidence.     It  would 
penalise  the  transferee,  but  as  regards    the  transferor    or  his 
heirs  it  would    have  the  effect  of    restoring  the  property    to 
him    or  them.     Further    the    invalidation  of    the    transfer 
would  lead  to  wide  spread  confusion  and  uncertainty    in  the 
titles  to  landed  property,  for  the  cases  in  which  administrat- 
ion is  not  taken  out  are  very    numerous    indeed.     For  these 
reasons  I  am  of  opinion  that  it  cannot  be  deduced   from  the 
language  of  §  547  that  the  transfers  penalised  by  the   section 
are  necessarily  invalid. 

The  second  point,  namely,  the  question  whether  the 
Judge  was  right  in  allowing  the  plaintiff  the  opportunity  of 
obtaining  administration  is  covered  by  authority.  In 
Gooneratne  v.  Hamine  '  Layarl  C.  J.  in  an  action  for  declarat- 
ion of  title,  held  that  in  the  extent  of  the  estate  being 
proved  to  be  of  the  value  of  Rs.  1000  administration  must  be 
taken  out  before  the  plaintiff  could  be  allowed  to  -proceed 
with  the  action.  This  decision  involves  the  construction 
that  the  woi-ds  "no  action  sball  be  maintainable"  are  not 
equivalent  to  "no  action  shall  be  instituted"  and  disposes  of 
the  argument  which  has  ))een  addressed  to  us  on  the  point. 
We  have  been  invited  to  reconsider  this  decision.  But  from 
the  fact  that  the  judgment  is  binding  on  us  I  see  no  reason 
for  doing  so.  The  decision  has  been  repeatedly  followed 
and  is  now  settled  law. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  consider  whether  this  is  an  action 
for  the  recovery  of  land  within  the  meaning  of  the  section, 
as  the  question  at  this  stage  is  purely  academic  and  will  not 
arise  if  the  plaintiff  makes  use  of  the  opportunity  given  him 

;.     (190S)  7  N.L-R.303. 


158  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 

Abdul       by  the  District  Judge  of'  obtaining  ailministratioii.     I  would 

Marikar  v  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 
lievana 

kavikar  Wood  Renton  J.— The   plaiiitiflP   respondent  sues  in 

Wood      this  action  for  a  partition  of  the   property  described   in  the 

Kenton  J.  pjjjj^  j^  relying  for   his  tide  on    a  deed  of   transfer  from   the 

heirs  of  one  A))dul  Aziz  dated  2nd  August  1902.  The  4fch 
defendant,  the  appellant,  intervened,  claiming  a  house  stand- 
ing on  the  premises  in  question,  and  objected  that  the  res- 
pondent's action  was  not  maintainable,  in  as  much  as  the 
estate  of  the  predecessor  in  title  of  the  respondent's  vendor, 
Abdul  Aziz,  exceeded  Rs.  1000  in  value  and  had  not  been 
administered.  The  learned  District  Judge  held  in  effect  that 
the  action  could  still  he  maintained  and  the  deed  of  transfer 
setup,  if  administration  was  taken  out  now,  and  he  adjourned 
the  trial  for  the  purpose  of  enabling  the  respondent  to  obtain 
letters  of  administration.  The  present  appeal  is  brought 
against  the  order  enabling  the  respondent  to  comply  with 
the  requiremsnts  of  §  547  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  The 
respondent's  Counsel  objected  that  it  was  not  appealable,  but 
we  overruled  this  objection  and  heard  Mr.  Hector 
Jayewardene  on  the  appellant's  behalf.  Two  points  were 
urged  in  support  of  the  appeal,  first  that  the  estate  of  Abdul 
Aziz  not  having  been  administered,  the  deed  of  ti-ansfer  by 
the  heirs  in  the  respondent's  favour  was  invalid,  and,  in  the 
next  place,  that,  in  any  event,  §  547  of  the  Civil  Pi-ocedure 
Code  expressly  prohibited  such  an  action  as  the  present  from 
being  maintained.  In  my  opinion,  both  points  are  bad.  § 
547  of  the  Code  does  not  prohibit  the  transfer  of  property 
which.pught  have  been,  but  has  not  been,  administered.  Ij 
penalises  such  a  transfer,  but  the  language  in  which  the 
penalty  Js  imposed  as  well  as  that  of  the  section  as  a  whole 
point,  in  my  opinion,  to  the  conclusion  that  the  Legislature 
did  not  intend  to  do  anything    more   than  this.     The    words 

"in  tije  event  ot  any  such  property  being  transferred 

"  ev^ry  transferor  and  transferee  of  such  property  shall  be 
'  grfilty  of  an  offence",  themselves  indicate  the  possibility  of 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES  159 

a  legal    transfer   taking   place.     Tlie   subsequent    provision      Abdul 
empowering  the  Crown  to  recover  from  "such    transferor  or  Marikar  v. 

"transferee    such  a  sum    as  would    have  been    payable'  to      Levgna 

Marikor 
"  defray  the  costs    of  the    str.nips    necessary  for    letters    of 

"administration"  corroborate  this  view.  The.f  seem  to  D^itonJ- 
treat  transfers  of  the  character  in  question  as  valid  transact  - 
ions  in  respect  of  which  stamp  duty  may  properly  be  re- 
covered. Mr.  Jayewardene  argued  that  the  provision  that 
the  transferor  or  transferee  of  property  requiring  adminis- 
tration, but  unadministered,  "shall  lie  guilty  of  an  offence" 
showed  an  intention  on  the  part  of  the  Legislature  to  make 
the  transfer  itself  illegal.  But  these  words  are  common 
form  in  enactments  of  this  description,  and  do  not  of  them- 
selves justify  the  inference  which  Mr.  Jayewardene  sought 
to  draw  from  them.  There  is  no  need  to  repeat  what  we 
have  recently  said  in  9S  D.C.  Kaiidy  No.  21155  '  as  to  the 
law  applicable  to  the  question  with  which  we  are  here 
concerned  In  addition  to  the  authorities  there  cited,  I 
would  refer  to  the  cise  of  Victorian  Daijlesford  v.  Doff ''.  In 
my  opinion  §  547  while  it  penalises,  does  not  prohibit,  the 
transfer  of  property  which  ought  to  have  been,  but  has  not 
been,  administered.  Such  an  enactment  at  the  time  when 
the  Code  of  Civil  Procedure  passed  would  have  unsettled  the 
titles  to  very  numerous  pi'operties,  and  J  think  that  the 
Legislature  must  be  taken  to  have  deliberately  abstained  from 
declaring  the  law  in  this  sense. 

With  regard  to  Mr.  Jayewardene's  second  point,  I  think 
that  it  may  fairly  be  argued  that  the  words  in  §  547  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code  "no  action  shall  be  maintainable"  mean 
only  'shall  be  capable  of  being  proceeded  with'.  This  view 
of  the  law  has  the  implied  sanction  of  the  decision  of  Layard 
C.  J.  and  Wendt  J.  in  Gooneratne  v.  Ramine  '■'  where  the  point 
was  taken  in  the  appellant's  argument,  and  where  both  the 
learned  Judges  held  that  while  §  547  of  the  Code  is  impei-a- 

1.     S.C.  Minutes  llth  June  191'2.        J.     (190B)  2   Ch.  «2J,. 
S.     (1903)  7  iV.L.E.  299. 


160  COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES 

Abdul  tive,  it  was  open  to  the  Court  to  give  tlie  party  seeing  an 
Mai-ikar  v,  opportunity  of  taking  out  the  necessary  administration.  That 
Levana  Jecision  has,  to  my  knowledge,  been  repeatedly  followed  in 
the  courts  of  Ceylon,  and  I  think  tliat  the  rule  which  it 
g_j_  sanctions  is  an  extremely  salutory  one.  The  primary  object 
of  §  547  is  to  protect  the  revenue.  That  object  is  obviously 
secured  by  the  refusal  of  the  courts  to  allow  an  action  for 
the  recovery  of  property  lial)le  to  administration,  but  not 
administered,  to  proceed  until  a  grant  of  administration  has 
been  obtained.  We  ought  not  to  place  upon  §  547  an  inter- 
pretation, which  its  language  does  net  compel  us  to  adopt, 
and  which,  as  ill  the  present  case,  can  onlj'  serve  to  support 
purely  technical  objections.  It  appears  to  me,  moreover, 
that  the  present  action  is  not  one  for  the  "recovery"  of  pro- 
perty within  the  meaning  of  §  547.  I  do  not  understand  the 
Privy  Council  in  the  case  of  Poiiiiamma  v.  Arumoyam  '  to 
have  held  that  every  partition  action  comes  within  the  scope 
of  these  words.  On  the  contrary,  the  Privy  Council  pointed 
out  in  that  case  that  the  action  was  one  for  partition  only 
in  form,  that  a  consitlerable  portion  of  the  property  had 
already  been  dealt  with  by  the  heirs  and  alienated,  and  that 
consequently  it  was  in  reality  an  action  for  "the  recovery" 
of  property.  The  present  appeal  possesses  no  merits,  and  I 
am  very  glad  that  I  have  been  able  to  come  to  the  conclus- 
ion that  it  ought  to  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 


1.    (.1905)  S  NL.B.  22S. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL     CAtSES  161 

PERERA  /:.  PEBIS. 
No.  2-l:.2-17C.  K.  (".ilomhn. 
Pre..-<ftiii :  Lascelles  C.  J. 

Hist  Mux  191  ii. 

Lfagf-r-plar't'ili!  tirfrrfmriit — iirfinnfui'  riiin;clluliun — conduct  nf  htsi'U 
01'  plaittcr  rviiir'niii  infritfio/t  III)  hiiig'^r  ii>  In- hiuniil  bij  "tjrfjfiiuiU — ahi/.tf 
^f  pvopcrt'i/  Icaxrd  - '/>;</ i-i/r/ itm  by  tivu  vf  trrm  jtfribifhihli'  to  viatioioit.-i 
ifrfloiloi"  tfrf/fif/rnrii  Ditff/ti  i)f  li'xarr  or  plinitrr — 'hntnujo  not    tr/riirt. 

The  cancel Uttiuii  uC  a  \o'A<o  ov  [jlynlinn  H^i'cuineiil  may  ho  il''U)iiniie(l 
h«tore  tilt;  expiry  ol  Iho  twin  oi  (lie,  .igrceiiient  if  the  <;uiidii(:t  of  tlie  ler*'?'' 
ftvincc- ail  intention  uo  lungpi- lo  !..■  IkuiikI  liv  tliu  (•untruct  oi' if  tlip  le»?pn 
liiiBalfUsod  til''  pi'<n.»iil\   leiiseil  I"  liini.  in  rr  rondni'tii    mule  rrrxriii i\ 

Tho  ili;>lrn(.'taiii  by  Art' uf  Uei-,  n'^nltiiii,'  in  ilama,i,'(.'  nut  of  a  tri\ia| 
nature  or  sueli  n.-  lalyht  easily  Iji.'  vcpaireil  wlietJier  uttrilnitablu  to  maliciou, 
fUition  or  uiore  i)'.-gli','eijt'e  on  the  iiart  of  the  If.saiji'  i^i  siii/h  nn  abusf  of  ths 
thing  Ittaseil  ii~  the  i;iiinan.-Piitc)i  \.:iw  .iiiitmniiliU'-  n- :i  sriumd  lor  the 
rsrcisfion  oC  tUn  tiiiisi'. 

TLiiti  is  all  nctioii  lor  ilic  cjiucfilaritju  of  a  ieuse  jv  plant- 
ing stgreenient  and  I'm'  iltmia.yes  on  tin- grotuids  chat  thi^. 
lessees 'had  failed  tn  plant  tlie  land  in  rerius  uf  the  agree- 
ment, Imd  inisappropriafccd  i^oiuf  niruutiut  plants  which 
had  been  supplied  l>y  tbe  IcrtBor  for  the  pm'i»o.ses  fjf^plautiiig, 
and  that  une  of  the  lessees,  vi/.  the  1st  'iefendant,  had 
malicioxfaly  damaged  by  tife  a  mmilier  of  cocoaniit  trees- 
Th''  1st  ilefendaut  anil  Iht  aabignets  of  a  poriion  of  his 
interest  ttloiie  cotitesied  the  action.  The.x  'lenicd  the  abovi^ 
allegations  ai)d  Contended  that  the  action  was  premature.  Th« 
Comnii'Ssioner  of  Renn-ejiis  entered  jinlgineni  in  faxnur  of  the 
plaintid'  in  te»ms  of  her  prayer. 

The  defeudiDits  appeahd. 

Bawa  K.  C.  for  the  nppellaiits.~The  defendants' objection 
th9.t  the  aiition  was  premature  should  have  been  upheld.  An 
action  to  i'eco%'er  damiges  for  the  breach  of  a  covenant 
cannot  be  ntaintaitietl  until  after  the  expiration  of  the  lease 


162  COURT     OF    APPKAT>     CASiiS 

Pereni  V.    (seu  ik  Foiisehi   r  Fernando^).     The   ueiiulty  oi:  roii'eitm'e  is 

'^"^       not  provided  for  in  the  terms  oL  the  coiitiyet.  While  thecou- 

Lascelles  tract  pi'ovides  thiit  breaches    ol;  certain  eoveiuiius  would    be 
C.  J. 

visited  with   jieiialties,   it  is  silent   on   the   question   of    for. 

feiture. 

K  IF.  Jiiijcinirdeiie  for  tha  respondent.— The  ilestrnction 
by  fire  of  a  number  of  valuable  cocoanut  trees  is  evidence 
of  a  notably  y^riueand  danjifying  misuse  of  the  proi)erly 
leased  on  the  part  of  the  lessees  which  woukl  entitle 
the  lessor  to  a  cancellation  of  the  lease  (eee  Perura  v. 
ThaUlf-).  The  conduct  of  the  lessees  in  not  planting  the 
land  and  in  misappropriating  the  plants  snpplied  by  the 
lessor  amounts  to  a  repudiation  of  (he  contract.  The  lessee 
had  no  authority  to  as>ign  his  tiuti-es  to  another.  This  being 
a  personal  contract  the  1st  defendant  had  no  right  to  assign 
the  burden  of  his  obligation  without  the  consent  of  :he 
lessor.  (Ka/.  iO-x'-70-  Berwick  pp.  212  &  21ti;1  Hahburtj  4SS  ; 
Cfenend  Jjill  FosUiii/  Co.  Ltd.  r,  Atkinlon  '■'). 

Baiva  K.  C.  in  reply.  There  in  no  evidence  of  au 
actual  repudiation  of  the  contract.  A  jnere  tlelegation  Of 
duties  cannot  be  coustruetl  to  be  a  re])udiation. 

c.  a.  V. 

Lascelles  C  J.— In  this  case  the  plaintiff  has  stied  for 
and  rtcovered  juJgmeut  ordering  the  cancellatioii  of  a  lease 
or  planting  agreement  between  the  phiiniiff  of  the  one  part 
and  the  defendant  of  the  other  part  and  also  ordering  the 
Ist  defendant  to  ptiy  Rs.  U,'-  as  damages  for  the  failure  .of 
the  1st  defendant  to  plant  21(0  cocoanut  plants  supplied  to 
him  by  the  plaintiff  in  accordance  with  the  agreement  and 
also  lis.  110  -  for  damages  caused  by  the  .1st  defendant  by 
destroying  the  cocoanut  trees  of  the  llrst  plantation.  ..From 
this  judgment  the  1st  defendant  now  appeals  on  the   ground 

i.     I  >S.  a.  U.  JJ.  .,'.     iJ'Jijj)  s  A.  L.  h'.  lis 

J.    ii:io:i)    A.  r.  lis. 


nOUirr     OF     APPEAL     CASES  16;', 

that    the    action    is   prematiu'e,    lieiug    bron.ylit     befoi-e    tlif    I'^rera  v. 

expii-y  ol  ilu'  tpi'iii  ot  tlio  ayrpfnipiit  ami  wni'ii  ovor  0   years 

(if    tlip  tpvni  of  0    vcais  graiilcil   1)\  tli(^  aarei'iiiont   is  still  to  Lascelles 

■  C.  J. 

.run.     In   my  opinion   tho  jnili^inciii    is  jnstilii'd  on   ciilipi-  of 

thp  two  follnwin.if  L;i'onn(ls.  In  tlic  first  plaei'  the  conduct 
of  the  plaintiff  is  inconsistent  witli  an  intf^ntion  to  bf  l)ound 
by  the  ai;rci'nient  txnd  to  carry  out  its  terms.  The  learned 
Commissioner  has  found  and  1  entirely  tigree  with  his 
finding  that  the  plaintiff  duly  supplied  the  defendants  in 
pursuance  of  the  agrei'ment  with  290  cocoanut  plants.  The 
1st  defendant  not  onlj'  denies  the  receipt  of  these  plants  but 
puts  fofwai'd  the  alleged  failure  of  the  plaintiff  to  supply 
.them  as  an  excuse  for  his  faihirt;  to  plant  the  land  in  accor- 
.dance  with  the  agreement.  Farther,  from  the  evidence  of 
the  1st  defendant  it  is  phun  that  he  has  no  intention  of 
honestly  carrying  out  the  agreement.  The  1st  defendant 
lias  thus  by  his  acts  iuid  conduct  evinced  'm\  intention  no 
longer  to  be  liound  by  the  contract.  In  these  circums- 
tances the  plaintiff  is  justihed  in  demanding  the  cr.ncolla- 
tion  of  the  contract,  (h'liv  rid  ■Bill  Pn^lny^  Co.  r.  Atkintoii  ' 
The  other  ground  on  which  I  am  of  opinion  that  the  judg- 
ment is  sound  is  to  be  found  in  the  principle  of  the  Eomnn- 
IJ^itch.  law  that  although  the  comhiclor  cannot  ordinai'ily.  be 
ejected  from  the  jjroperty  which  he  has  taken  on  lease 
before  the  expiry  of  [the  appointed  term,  this  is  permitted 
wlien  the  {■oiKhicldr  has  abused  the  thing  hired  to  him  iii 
reritiiilii'-hi    mnlc  iv'f>c/iir  (Bcnrirk's  Vnet  p.  ;?/.?.) 

In  the  present  case  the  learned  Commissioner  had 
fiund  thitt  the  defendants  are  responsible  for  the  desti'uc- 
tion  by  fw^'  of  the  greater  part  of  the  tr(>es  of  the  old 
})lantati<>n.  Xow  whether  the  destruction  of  these  trees  is 
atti'iliutable  to  malicious  action  mi  the  jiart  of  tlie  Ist 
defendant  as.  tlieri.'  is  reason  to  suspect,  or  wlieiher  it  is  due 
merely   to  negligence   on  his  part  it  is  clear  that  the  defen- 

7      iV.<ii'.i)     '!  Ajiji'ril  Cmex  /I.  lis. 


Ui  OOTTHT     OK     APPEAL     f'ASKS 

fVTHiu,  >.    tluut,  iiudt'.i'  tliR  rule  of  ihe  niim;ni~Dnt,ch   Isiw  whicli  I  luiv*- 
PerU  , 

(;iten.  in   lialjlf  tn  be  ej''cti'il.     TJie  damage  caused  is  not  of 

'""^j  *  "  Trivuil  narnre  or  such  a?  niigbr  pasily  be  repaive.d.  The 
destruction  i.r  ilifsi'  in  es  innsr  iiuivit.-ibly  tlt^traot  from  thf 
valut' ol'  lilt- propci'iy  at  tJiu  tcrnvination  of  the  loasp".  Tlip 
condiioi  ot  tlic  ii('tV'ud;tiil  iti  allowing  the  jiiopcfty  to  be  so 
iiijorfd  is  clearly  such  an  abuse  o(  [he  position  of  the  legsew 
as  the  l?oman-Duicli  law  couteniplatcs  as  a  ground  for  the 
rescission  of  ihe  IcdSc.  \i\  rhe  view  whicli  /  take  ot  the 
legal  ef^eci  of  fhe  Isi  defcudant'H  conduct  it  i.v  unnecessary 
to  consider  ln.iw  far  Ihe  defendanis  were  Jnstified  in  assign- 
ing to  others  a  share  of  the  planrin^  agreement  or  lease. 
In  my  opinion  the  jndginem  of  the  Ootnmisaiouer  is  justifi- 
ed on  The  grounds  which  i  have  stated  and  1  dismisis  th» 
appeal  with  costs. 


Appoai  d'kniKDei. 


Proctors  for  appellants—  G.  h.  Vouray  und  0,  H.  G.  We»rmn^» 
Procter  for   respondent — 0.  A.  Jn-i/eufkere. 


COOR'I'     UF     APPEAL     CASES,  U.;;-> 

HUDSON  0.  PONNIAH  KANGANY. 
No.  5078  P.  C.  Badulla  Haldummulia. 
Present:  PereiPfti  d. 

i^th  July  1912. 

Mantrr  uiiil  ^'icrca/it — ■sv.h-liivniiaiiij — lufii.-inl  to  irark  ax  a  I'vatij-- 
Ordinance  Yo.  11  of  lS6r,  §  n. 

\  ^ub.kaugany  who  refnsp"  to  work  .-vm  :i  [■ooly  whoa  orUeved  to  do  to 
ill  the  oi-dinnry  course  of  emplcympnt  or  not,  is  liable  under  §  11  of  Ordi- 
nance Ko.  IT  uf  1S65. 

The  fad  that  the  order  to  work  as  a  cooly  was  not  given  in  the  ordi- 
nary course  of  estate  management  but  as  a  punishment  may  well  be  taken 
into  consideration  in  mitigation  of  the  offence. 

^nt%  Mei/a  i.  Kiidcrxn  1  followed. 

Ill  this  cas-^".  the  accused  I'onniah  was  a  suh-kaiigany 
working  on  Glenanore  Estate,  Hapntaln.  As  n  punishmeni 
for  certain  alleged  uets  ot  misconduct,  his  employer  Mr. 
Hudson  stopped  bis  snporviaintr  work  as  u  kanganj',  anti 
ordered  him  to  work  as  a  cooly  in  the  field.  He  refused  to 
do  so.  He  was  thereupon  charged  under  §  11  of  Ordinance 
11  of  186ri  with  refusing  to  work  and  with  absenting 
himself  from  work  withoni  leave  or  reasonable  cause 
and,  after  trial  on  the  21  st  June  1912,  was  convicted  and 
sentenced  to  undergo  one  month's  rigorous  imprisonment 
and  to  pay  ,i  tine  of  Ite.  -5,  or  in  default  ko  undergo  a  further 
r«rm  of  imprisonment  for  onu  month.  The  accused  appealed. 

L.  H.  ih'  Ahri!<,  for  the  accused-appellant. — In  this 
case  as  in  MacLean  r.  Appun  Kangany'l,  ^^^'  *>''der  lu  work 
as  a  cooly  was  not  gi\en  in  tile  ordinarj"  course  of  estate 
management,  bui  as  a  punishnienr  for  certain  alleged  acts 
of  miscondurt.  There  is  no  eriminai  intent  proved 
against  thH  accused  viz.  that  iiis  disi>liedience  was  wilful  and 
not  due  TO  an  erroneous  idea  of  his  rights  and    duties.     The 

I.      t'  d.  Badvlla  11091,  S.C.M-    rth  Septmioer.  19Wi 
^    (1S99)2  N.l.B.SJ/. 


166  COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES 

Hudson  V.   accused  l)e]ieved  that  it  was  ]io  jiait    of  his  duty  to    perform 


Pereira  J 


manual  labour.  Duriug  the  'i  or  (1  years  ho  wcrked  on  the 
estate  he  had  never  l)et'nre  worked  as  a  cooly.  This  would 
indicate  that  his  contract  ol'  service  with  the  estate  did  not 
extend  to  his  doing  manual  woi'k.  Tlie  decision  in  Mar.Lean 
V.  Apjutii.  Kanfiany  '  was  followdin  a  later  case  by  Middleton 
J.  in  Rijnn  v.  nWnippcn  -  Counsel  also  cited  : — P.  C.  Matale 
21,19H,  S.  r.   M.  8th    Sf'p/rmhp.r    ISSl. 

WaJsii'O/th,  for  the  cmnplainant  respondent. — The  decision  in 

MarLt'rtii  v.  Appan  Knnijiiin/'^  would  notapply  to  this  case.  There 

is  evidence  to  show  the  order  was  given  in  the  ordinary  course 

of  estate     management.     This    case  would  more  nearly   be 

governeil   by  the    decision    of  Wendt.  .J.    in    Natu  Mmja  v. 

Kadnm   ',    where    it  was  lield    that   a  sub-kangany  may  be 

ordered,  in  the  absence  of    exempting  custom,  to   work  as  a 

cooly,  at   any      time.     Here    there  is   evidence    that   nearly 

all  sub-kanganies    work  as  coolies,    and    is  usual   for   them 

to  do  so." 

r.  a.  V. 

Pereira,  J. — The  accused  is  charged  under  §  11  of 
Oi'diuaiice  No.  11  of  ISG")  with  refusing  to  work  and  absen- 
ting himself  from  work  without  leave  oi'  reasonable  cause, 
lie  is  a  snb-kang.iuj-  in  Glonanore  Estate  and  his  defence  is 
that  he  was  asked  to  work  as  a  coolj'  and  that  being  on  the 
estate  as  a  sub-kangany,  he  refused  to  work  as  a  cooly.  The 
question  of  the  lialiility  of  a  kangany  to  work  as  a  cooly  has 
been  considered  by  this  Court  in  several  cases.  It  is  suffi- 
cient to  I'efer  here  to  only  three  of  them.  In  MiirLean  v. 
Ajipitii  Kangiini/,  ^  Bonser.  C.  J.,  held  that  a  tea  estate  kangany 
who  refused  to  obey  an  ordei-  to  jierform  manual  lalionr  in 
the  i'pa.s(^nal)le  belief  fo\inded  on  the  previous  course  of 
business  on  the  estate  that  it  was  no  part  of  his  duty  to 
perform  such  labonr,  was  not  guilty  of  wilful  disobedience 
under  §  11  of  the  Ordinance.     That    case    was     followed   by 

7      {n9&)'!  WL.B.  .-.}. 
":     P.  (.'.  MaUilr  M^r.ti  S.C.M  1f?fh  Ortoher  1906. 
,-;.     7'    r.  Biiiliilla  l loul  S.O.M.  rth  SqiU-mher  1902, 


couirr    OF    appeal    (ja8i<:s  h;7 

Mr.  Justici'    MidiUeiDU  in  the  l-hs'j    oj'    Ri^an    r.    Wueyiiii/icn  '  Hndcuu   v. 

rnu  i  1  •       1-  •   1       1  !•      \-    ,        I'inuiah 

ihe  present  case,  hdwevei-,  is  more  ]n  hue.  wnli  uuu  oL  ^\i/li(    Kani;aiiv 

Mem    r.    Kaderm     K.Mi/aiu/  '.   ]I^■^•e  Wendt.    ■).  observed  : —  . 

•  Pereira 

"Tllere     is    no     evidence    to     ^llo\v     iliut     an     agricultural 

labourer  merely    because  he    is   a    sub-kaugany,    is  entitled 

lo   ch-oose     whetbpf     lie    shall     himself   work     or    not.     It 

is  not  suggested  thai  it  is  li    generally    recognised  custom     in 

such  employment  lliat  a  snb-kangany  sball  not  lie  oljliged    to 

work  with  his  own  Innuls."     These  oliservalions  iippl^-   with 

eijual  force  to  the  prest'iit  case  and    moreoxer,    here    there  is 

positive    evidence  to  the  effect  that  "nearly  ;iil  subdtangaiiie.- 

work  as  coolies  and  it  is  nsual  lor  them  lo    do    fo."     But   ah 

in  the  case  of  Mac  Lean  r.  Apimii,  ■  it  iscb-ar  that  in  the  present 

case  the  order  to    woi-l<    as   a   cooly    was    not    given    in    the 

ordinary  course  of  estate  uiauagjmetit,  but  as  a'fpunishment 

for  certain  acts  of  tniscontluct    by    the    accused,    whicli    had 

been  reported  to  .Mi'.    Hudson.     In    Mur/.ea.'i  r.  Apiiait  '  the 

fact  that  the  ortler  was  not  one  given  in  the  orilinary   ct)Uiae 

of  estate  management,  Inrt  was  an  exceptional  order  gi\en  to 

assert  the  airthority  of  the  Superintendent  went  a  great   way 

towards  contrilnuing  to  the  grounds    on  which  the    acquittal 

was  based.  The  similar  inciilent  in  the  present  case  may  not 

altogether  exonerate  the    accused,  bnt  it    may  well  be    taken 

into  consideration  in  mitigation  of  his  oll'ence.     The  reasoits 

given  by  Wendt,  J.,  in  Snhi,  Meija  v.  Kiiilei-sn  '  fur   reducing 

the  sentence  apply    with  equal    force  to    this  case.     1    attirm 

the  conviction  but  reduce  the  sentence  to  a  fine  of   Rs.  25,  or 

in  default  of  payment  of    the  fine    to  one    months'  rigorous 

imprisonment. 

OoihvkUon  aft'lnncJ;  sentence  rcdnxeiJ. 

Proctor    for    appellant— .1,    C.  W.  Sannimkovn. 
Proctor    for  respondent — B.  E.  Bluzr. 


1.  P.  C.  Matale  :gSGU.  S.  C.  U.  l~Hh  UcloOer  1006. 
3.  P.  ('.  Bad"lJa  ll'ifl  fSX.JI.  :th  Septeviher  IWJ. 
S.     {lOOl'J  .'  X  L.Ii.  u'l. 


l,is  COURT    OV    APPEAL     CASE   • 

KUKERA     V.     TAMEL. 

So.  i5U  D.  ('.  Chilaw. 

PresMi :  Lascelles  C.  J.  &  Wood  Renton  J. 

]5tli  July  1H12. 

Licsjudieata — avtioK,  hij  puri'lutser  at  a  Finnir-':  .^ah  ivithoiil    ohtaininrj 

ohtabiiiui  Fixi_:iil'«  rimrryaiicr — ^§  :iO/'  A''  -A'S  <"iril  Proridinr  L'wA'. 

Where  au  ;j.ctjun  brought  liy  a  paiTiiasei'  nt  a  Fisoal's  sale  who  had  not, 
obtained  the  FiscaJ's  transfer  was  dismissed,  such  dismissal  is  no  li;ir  ton 
subsequent  action  brought  after  obtaining'  the  Fisr-al's  coiivevanec 

Under  fj  289  of  the  Code  the  judgment-debtor  is  not  divested  of 
title  until  the  execution  of  the  Fiscid's  c-ouveyanee  and  therefore  it  foilov? 
that  at  the  date  of  the  former  aot'on  the  title  set  up  in  the  latter  ■amely. 
the  title  based  on  a  Fi-^calV  eonveyancii  not  only  was  not,  Imt  eould  not 
have  been  set  up. 

The  piaintitl:  appelliiiit  iii  tliis  case,  w.is  t.liv  purtrhaser  of 
certain  shares  of  land,  the  subject  matter  of  the  present 
action,  at  a  Fiscal's  sale  in  .1879.  He  thereafter  entered  in- 
to the  premises  and  remained  in  possession  of  the  same  till 
1906  when  he  was  ousted  b.y  the  respondents.  Therefore 
without  obtaining  a  Fiscal's  trtmsfer  he  brought  the  action 
No.  12371  of  the  Court  of  Requests  of  Cltilaw  for  declaration 
of  title  against  tlie  respondents.  'I.'he  action  was  dismissed 
ill  view  of  certain  judgmentu  ul'  the  Supremi;  Court  which 
held  that  unlit  the  Fiscal  e-xecuied  a  conveyance  no  titlf 
vested  in  the  execution  purchaser,  and  as  the  plaintiff  failed 
to  establish  the  alternative  title  bj-  prescription,  independent 
of  the  purohasi'  which  lie  set  up.  Subsequently  the  appellant 
obtained  a  Fiscal's  conveyance  dated  23rd  November  1910  and 
instituted  this  action.  Tln^  learned  District  .Ttidge  held  thai 
the  decree  in  C.  if.  Cliilaw  12371  was  icti  pjiiifutu  t^nd  dis- 
tiiissed  tbf  action.     The  plaintilf  appealed. 

if.  A.  Jiiyewardene  for  the  appellant. — The  present  action 
is  based  on  a  new  title  and  the  judgment  iu  the  previous  case 
does  not  operate  as  rp>,  jvdieata.  Altboufh  in  the  former   case 


COUR     OF    APPEAL    CASES  169 

also  the  plaintiflF  claimed  by  virtue  of  a  fiscal's   sale  he  had    Kurera  v. 


no^fiscal's conveyance  and  the  title  at  that  date  was  in  the 
judgment-debtor.  §  207  Civil  Procedure  Code  only  bars  every 
right  that  could  have  beeu  put  forv/ard  in  the  previous  case 
and  not  any  title  or  right  subsequently  acquired.  The 
plaintiff's  present  title  was  not  then  in  existence  and  could 
not  have  been  set  up.  Although  the  plaintiff  alleged  a  pur- 
chase at  a  fiscal's  sale  he  had  no  title  arisiuj,'  from  such 
purchase.  It  has  been  held  that  where  a  plaintiff  claims 
title  by  virtue  of  a  fiscal's  sale  and  has  no  transfer  at  the 
date  of  action,  but  obtains  one  during  its  pendency  he  is  not 
entitled  to  rely  on  it  at  the  trial.  He  cited  Bukm  Chaiid's 
Res  Judicata  p  136;  Caspersz  p.  95;  Ibrahim  Baay  v.  Abdul 
Rahim  ';  Kameswar  Perstadv.  Pajkumari  Puttan  Koer  2;  Silvav. 
Nona  Eamine  =*;  Silva  v.  Hendrick  Appu  *;  Karunaicardms  v. 
Wijeyesuriya  ". 

No  appearance  for  respondent. 

e.  a.  V. 

Lasoelles,  O.  J. — A  simple  question  of  law  is  raised  by 
the  present  appeal.  The  plaintiff-appellant  purchased  the 
•bare  in  question  at  a  Fiscal's  sale  in  1879.  He  alleges  that 
he  entered  into  and  remained  in  possession  until  he  was 
onated  by  the  defendants-respondents.  Then,  without  hav- 
ing obtained  a  Fiscal's  transfer  the  plaintiff-appellant  in- 
stituted Court  of  Requests  action  No.  12371  which  action  was 
naturally  dismissed.  Subsequently  the  plaintiff-appellant, 
having  obtained  a  Fiscal's  transfer,  instituted  the  present 
action  in  which  he  claims  a  declaration  of  title  to  the  same 
land.  The  learned  District  Judge  has  dismissed  this  action 
on  the  ground  that  it  is  res  adjvAicata  by  reason  of  the  decree 
in  the  action  in  the  Court  of   Requests.     The  question  for 

1.     (1909)  IS  N.L.B.  177.        S.      T.L.B.  SO  Calcutta  79 
3.    (190V)  10  N.L.B.  U-  4-    (iS9B)  1  N.L.R-  is. 

a.     (1908)  U  N.t.R.  til. 


Tamel 

Lascelles 
C.J. 


170  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES 

Kurera^.    determination    is    whetiiei' tln^    Dis^trict  Judare    was  right  in 
Tame] 

holding  tile    present    action    to  be   re.s  ad  judical  a.     However 

''■^^l  *  mucli  one  inay  regret  tlue  re-opeinug-  of  thisjlitigation,  T  am 
of  opinion  thai  in  point  nl'  law  the  judgment  cannot  be 
auatained.  W'hrrt  immovable  ])i'opei-ty  is  sold  in  execution, 
the  pu re hasei' obtains  no  title  until  a  Fiscal's  conveyance  in 
his  favour  has  Ijeen  njade  (§  289  Civil  Procedure  Code.)  In 
Silva  V.  Nfiiui,  Hamina  ^  it  was  held  "with  regard  to  a  title 
claimed  on  ,i  Fiscal's  sale,  that  the  title  could  not  be  main- 
tained when  a  Fiscal's  conveyance  had  not  been  obtained  at 
the  institution  of  the  action,  although  the  sale  was  confirmed 
and  a  conveyance  executed  shortly  after  action  brought  (CT'de 
*lso  Silvn  r.  Heiuh-kk  Ap/iu  '^  Karunawaniene  v.  Wijesunya  ^,) 
It  follows  from  §  289  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  from 
these  decisions  that,  at  the  date  of  the  action  in  the  Court  of 
Requests,  the  title  now  set  up  namely,  the  title  based  on  a 
F'iscal's  conveyance,  not  only  was  not,  but  could  not  have 
been  set  tip.  'i'liei'e  was,  therefore,  no  adjudication  on  the 
title  on  which  the  plaintift'-appellant  now  claims. 

]  would  set  aside  tlu;  judgment  of  the  District  Judge 
and  remit  the  case  for  trial  in  due  course  of  law.  In  the 
circumstances,  I  think,  that  the  plain  tiff -appellant  is  entitled 
to  his  costs  of  the  ajjpeal,  but  the  costs  of  the  Court  below 
should  abide  the  result  cf  the  action. 

Wood  Ronton,  J.— I  agree.  I  would  gladly,  it  I  could 
have  distinguished  the  cases  referred  to  by  my  Lord,  the 
Chief  Justice.     But  they  appear  to  me  to  be  decisive. 

Proctor  for  appellant  —  C.  E.  Goma. 

ProcHir  I'oi'  respondeni — Np//.  A.  Dhiirmaratnc. 

l:     iiyo?)  lU  M.L.U.  U.  -'■     ilimS)  1  N.L,B.  IS. 

S.     {1008)  11  N.L.R.  ni. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     (\A.SK8.  171 

MANIS  APPUHAMY  v.  NONA,  tt  al 
No.  10,259  C.  R.  Panadtira. 
Presmt:  Pepeipa  J. 

17th  July,  1912. 

New  coittudtioii — H(H  inculved  iii  the  issncs — when  admissible  in  Court 
lit  Appeal — Tasmania  case — whateter  not  invohed  lit  issves  amount  to 
aimissions — Cfmrn  grant  in  favour  of  dnoeam-d  person — void. 

Under  our  procedure  it  is  not  open  to  a  party  to  put  forward  a  ground 
for  the  first  time  in  appeal  unless  it  might  have  been  put  forward  in  the 
Court  below  under  some  one  or  other  of  the  issues  framed. 

When  a  ground  that  might  have  been  put  forward  in  the  Court  below 
is  put  forward  in  the  Court  of  Appeal  for  the  first  time  the  cautions  in- 
dicated in  the  cuso  of  the  "Tasnirinifi"i    may  well  be  observed. 

Whatever  is  not  involved  in  thp  issues   is  to  lio  taken   as  admitted   by 

the  one  party  or  the  other 

ftemhle,  a  Crown  srant  in  favour  of  a  deceased  i)er»on  i«  void. 

H.  A.  Jai/ewardeiip  for  the  appellants. 
A.  St.  r  Jai/eimrdcne  fur  the  respondents. 

Pereira  J« — In  this  CHRe  the  plaintiff  devivt'S  title  to 
the  share  of  land  in  dispute  from  one  Juanisin  whose  favour 
Crown  grant  No.  42552  in  i-espect  ot  the  whole  land  appears 
to  have  been  issued  on  the  10th  August,  1906.  It  is  argued 
in  appeal  that  it  appears  from  the  evidence  recorded  in  the 
case  that  Juauis  was  dead  at  the  date  of  the  issue  of  the 
Crown  grant,  and  that,  therefore,  the  Crown  grant  was  void 
and  Inoperative  being  practically  in  favour  of  a  deceased 
person.  Following  the  analogy  of  the  effect  of  a  Fiscal's 
conveyance  made  in  favour  of  a  purchaser  after  his  death 
(See  Bastian  v.  Andris  ^)  I  am  inclined  tn  think  that 
this  contention  is  soitnd,  bur  is  it  open  to  the  defendant 
in  this  case  to  raise  this  question  in  this  appeal  ?  There  was 
no  issue  either  framed  or  suggested  at  any  nme  as  to  whether 
Juanis  was  dead  at  the  date  of  the  Crown  grant  and  as  to 
the  effect  of  a  grant  issued  in  favour  of  a  person  after  his 
death  ;  and  in  the  Court  iielow  there  was  no  such  contention 
as  is  now  put  forward.  Mr.  H.  A.  .lajewardene  invited  my 
attention  to  issue  No.  4— "Did  Juanis  or  Singho  Appu  pay 
"the  half  improveii  value  and  was  the  issue  of  the  Crown 
1.    15A.C.SSS.        S.    (1911)  14  X.  L.B.  ^.11. 


172  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES 

.  Mani8  "^rant  to  Juanis  pmper"  ?  The  present  contention  is  not 
^*Nona™f  al'  covered  by  this  issue.  The  issue  presupposes  that  Juanis  was 
alive  at  the  date  of  the  issue  of  the  grant,  and  the  question 
Pereir*  J.  ]jQ,,g  jgaiiy  jg  whether  the  issne  of  the  grant  to  him  was 
proper  if  Singho  Appu  had  paid  the  half  improved  value. 
Mr.  Jayewardene  then  cited  to  me  the  case  of  the '' Tasmania'' ^ 
There  it  was  held  that  a  Court  of  Appeal  ought  only  to 
decide  in  favonr  of  an  appellant  on  a  ground  there  put 
forward  for  the  first  rime  if  it  be  satisfied  beyond 
doubt,  first,  that  it  has  before  it  all  the  facts  bearing  upon 
the  new  contention  as  completely  as  would  have  been  the 
case  if  the  controversy  had  arisen  at  the  ti'ial ;  and  next,  that 
no  satisfactory  explanation  could  have  been  offered  by  those 
whose  conduct  is  impugned  if  an  opportunity  for  explana- 
tion had  been  offered  them  when  in  the  witness  box.  I  am 
not  sure  that  this  ruling  would  apply  to  a  system  of  pro- 
cedure in  which  the  framing  of  issues  at  the  trial  is  an 
essential  step  excejtt  to  the  extent  of  admitting  a  new  con- 
tention urged  for  the  first  time  in  the  Court  of  Appeal  which, 
thouyh  not  taken  at  the  trial,  is  still  admissible  under  some 
one  or  other  of  the  issues  framed.  Under  our  procedure  all  the 
contentious  matter  between  the  parties  to  a  civil  suit  is,  so  to 
say,  focussed  in  the  issues  of  law  and  fact  framed.  What- 
ever is  not  involved  in  the  issues  is  to  be  taken  as  admitted 
by  the  one  party  or  the  other,  and  1  do  not  think  that  under 
OUT  procedure  it  is  open  tu  a  pirty  to  put  forward  a  ground 
for  the  first  time  in  appeal  unless  it  might  have  been  put 
forward  in  the  Court  below  under  some  one  or  other  of  the 
issues  framed,  and  when  such  a  ground,  that  is  to  9ay,  a 
ground  that  might  have  been  put  forward  in  the  Court  below 
is  putfoiward  in  appeal  for  the  first  time, the  cautions  indicated 
in  the  case  of  the  •'■Tanmaiiia"^  may  well  be  observed. 

I  see  no  reasou  to   disagree   with  the    commissioner  on 
his  decision  on  the  question   as    to   prescriptive    possession. 

Affirmed. 

Affirmed. 

Proctor  for  appellants— AS'o/owort  Fernando. 
Pi-octor  for  respondent—/*.  A.  Oooneratm. 
1.    ISA.  C.  SU. 


COURT    OF     APPEAL    CA^S  173 

FERNANDO  v.  ALIA  MARIKAR. 

No.  17,107   P.  C.  Negombo. 

J  8th  July,  1912. 

fenal  Code  §  ISS — verbal  refusal  to  allow  a  public  servant  to  perform 
hU  d%ty— "Voluntarily  ob/structing" — evidence  necessary  of  or^rtact  done 
OT physical  means  used. 

A  mere  verbal  refusal  to  allow  a  puliliu  servant  to  perform  his  duty 
do«B  not  constitute  "voluntarily  obstructing"  within  the  meaning  of  §  18a 
of  the  Penal  Code. 

There  must  be  snine  overt  act  done  <ir  physical  means  ua«d. 

Hendrick  t.  Kirihamy  i  followed. 
Sasawasagrain  r.  Siiuandi  2  distinguished. 

The  appellant  in  this  case,  was  charged  with  aD(>ther 
under  §§  484  and  486  of  the  Penal  Code  with  abusing  and 
threatening  the  complainant,  and  the  appellant  alone  wae 
charged  under  §  18?>  with  voluntarily  obstructing  the 
complainant,  a  public  servant,  who  is  a  Sanitary  Overseer  of 
the  Local  Board,  in  the  discharge  of  his  public  functions  as 
Buch  Sanitary  Overseer.  The  complainant  in  his  evidence 
said  :  "I  am  assistant  to  th«  Sanitary  Inspector.  I  get  Rs. 
25  a  month.  I  report  to  the  Inspector.  On  the  27th  April 
at  4  p.m.  the  accused  had  onions  in  a  box  on  the  drain.  I 
told  accused  to  remove  them.  The  accused  Ali  refused.  I 
bent  to  take  the  box.  The  accused  Ali  prevented  me  from 
taking  the  box.  The  accused  Ali  abused  me  in  indecent 
language."  The  1st  accused  stated  in  his  evidence  that  the 
box  was  placed  there  so  that  its  contents  might  be  removed 
by  the  scavengers.  The  Police  Magistrate  dismissed  the 
former  charges  and  convicted  the  1st  accused  under  the  latter 
charg*  and  sentenced  him  to  pay  a  fine  of  Rs.  45,  in  default 
to  undergo  one  month's  rigorous  imprisonment. 

The  accused  appealed. 

%,    S  Leader  lOS.  S'.    (1905)  9  N.I.B.  U. 


174 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Fernando  v. 
All  MarikBv 

La«celle» 
C.J. 


E,  G.  P.  J aypfileki'  lor  the  accused-appellant. — The  facts 
shaw  that  ihv  complainant  is  an  asRistaui  to  the  Sanitary 
Inspector  and  that  his  duties  are  to  report  to  the  Inspector. 
There  is  no  evidence  that  he  has  the  power  to  act  indepen- 
dently of  the  Inspector  in  any  matter  connecced  with  the 
public  health  etc  :  In  tliese  circumstance;-!  he  can  hardly  be 
called  a  "pnlilic  wervant"  within  the  meaning  ot  clause  9  of 
§  19  of  the  Penal  Coilt .  [Ltisr.elle.'i  C.  ■/.  He  is  paid  out  oi: 
jmblic  funds.]  II:  that  were  the  test  to  be  applied,  every 
Govei-ument  servant  would  come  under  the  term  "public 
servant".  Undei'  clause  9  only  an  "officer  of  Government" 
can  be  a  public  servant.  It  is  therefore  submitted  that  the 
test  would  depend  on  the  natui'e  of  the  duties  that  each  man 
has  to  perform.  Even  assuming  that  the  complainant  is  a 
public  servant  there  is  no  evidence  that  the  accused 
"voluntarily  obstructed"  him.  To  satisfy  the  provisions  of 
§  183  of  the  Penal  Code  there  must  De  evidence  of  some 
overt  act  done  or  physical  means  used  by  the  accused.  A 
mere  refusal  to  allow  a  public  servant  to  do  his  duty  does 
not  amount  to  "voluntarily  obstructing"  (See  Hendrick  v. 
Kirihamy  ^).  In  India  the  current  of  authority  has  run  in 
the  same  direction  (see  Ealanlarx  Laiv  of  CrimPK  paqea  233  (£■ 
234).  The  accused  was  justified  in  keeping  the  box  on  the 
edge  of  the  road  (See  Thp.  Loral  Board  By-Law!<  C/i:  .VI.  2.  at 
p,  288  of  Vol.  /■/.'  Legifslafive  Eaactmenfs);  and  therefore  the 
complainant  cannot  be  said  to  have  been  acting  at  the  time 
in  the  discharge  of  his  public  functions. 

Mr.  H.  A.  Jayewardene  as  mnicus  curiae  referred  the  Court 
to  the  case  of  Basmmsayram  v.  Siwandi  -. 

r.  a.  V 

Lasoelles  0.  J. — in  this  case  the  appellant  and  another 
Tvere  charged  with  abusing  and  threatening  the  complainant 
under  §§  484  and  486  of  the  Penal  Code,  and  the  appellant 
■was  charged  under  §  183  of  the  Code  with  obstructing  the 
complainant  who  is  n  Sanitary  Overseer  of  the  Local  Board. 


1.    ?i  Leader  105. 


(1905)  9  N.L.E.M. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     OASES  175 

The  appellant,  now,    appeals  from  his  conviction    under  Fernando  v 
, ,      ,.  ,  ,       .        ,  , ,       .        ,  Alia  Marikar 

the  latter  charge  the  rurmer  charges  havint,'  been  dismissed. 

Assuming   that,    the    complainant     is   a   public    servant  Lascelles 
within  the  meanini;  ot  §  183  of  the  Penal  Code  the   question 
arises  whether  the  appellant  is  proved  to  have  done  any  acts 
which  amount  to  "voluntarily    (ibstructing''  the  complainant 
in  the  discharge  of  his  public  functions. 

The  complainant,  who  is  not  likely  to  understate  his 
case,  deposed  as  follows  : — "The  accuseil  had  onions  in  a 
box  on  the  drain.  I  told  accused  to  rc^move  them.  The 
accused  Ali  refused.  I  bent  to  take  the  box.  The  accused 
Ali  prevented  me  from  taking  the  box.  The  accused  Ali 
abused  me  in  indect-nt  language." 

Except  a  vague  statement  l)y  om^  witness  (Manuel 
Fernando)  that  the  appellant  ''pushed  the  box,"  there  is  no 
evidence  of  any  physical  obstruction  on  the  part  of  the  accus- 
ed. The  evidence  is  that  the  accused  did  no  more  than 
refuse  to  allow  the  complainant  to  remove  the  box;  and  that 
there  was  an  altercation  between  the  two.  A  mere  verbal 
refusal  to  allow  a  public  servant  to  perform  his  duty  does 
not  constitute  'voluntarily  obstructing'  within  the  meaning 
of  §  183.  Headrick  v.  Kirihamy  ^  There  must  be  some 
overt  act  done  or  physical  means  used. 

The  Indian  antlioriiies  on  the  corresponding  section  of 
the  Indian  Penal  Code  are  tlnciw-iive  on  the  point.  The  case 
of  Rasaivasagram  i\  Siwamli  ^  is  not  a  decision  to  the  contrary 
for  the  language  of  the  enactment  there  umier  consideration 
(Section  6  sub-sec  :  L  of  Ordiuance  3  of  1897),  as  was  pointed 
out  by  Wood  Renton  J.  diil'ers  materially  from  that  of  §  183 
of  the  Indian  Penal  Code. 

I  am  of  opinion  that  the  u\idence  in  the  rectird  does  not 
disclose  an  offence  under  §  183  of  Penal  Code  anil  1  set  aside 
the  conviction  and  sentence. 

Goiividion  and  sentence  set  tside. 

Proctor  for  appellant—^.  A.  JayeUUTce. 

1,    H  Uad»y  105.  ^.    ''lf>OB)  9  N.L.B-.  8S 


INDEX 


Page 
Arrack — 

The  possession  of  less  than  two  quarts  of  arrack 
is  not  an  offence  under  §  ,'52  of  Ordinance  No.  10 
of  1844. 

GOONETILLEKB  V.  SAINERIS        ...  ...  42 

Arrest — 

By  a  peace  officer  for  a  noncognizable  offence 
without  a  warrant — Accused  should  be  forthwith 
taken  to  the  nearest  Police  Magistrate — Arrest 
under  §  32  Civil  Procedure  Code — Police  can  take 
bail. 

The  Attorney-General  v.  Captain 
Skinner  ...  ...  ...        60 

Breach  of  Promise  of  Marriage — 

An  action  for  Breach  of  Promise  of  .Marriage 
can  be  maintained  in  the  absence  of  an  explicitly 
expressed  intention  not  to  fulfil  the  contract  when 
it  is  not  an  essential  term  in  the  contract  that  the 
marriage  should  take  place  on  or  before  a  certain 
day. 

A  request  by  the  defendant  to  be  released  from 
the  engagement  coupled  with  improper  conduct 
on  his  part  both  before  and  after  the  said  request 
may  be  taken  to  indicate  a  clear  intention  on  his 
part  to  break  off  the  engagement. 

Sawyer  c.Tbingham  ...  ...      13.5 

Action — 

for  cancellation  of  a  lease 
See  Lease 

Amendment— 

of  decree  after  passing  the  seal  of  the  Supreme  Court. 

See  Decree 


Page 
Appealable  Order- 
Mere  expression  ot  opinion  by  the  Judge  but  no 
formal  order  entered  on  record,  no  appeal  lies. 

Henry  de  Costa  v.  I^ewis  Silva  ...      12« 

Appeal— (interlocntory) 

From  the  decison  of   one  of  several  issues — when  it 
should  be  taken. 

Arumugam  v.  Tampu  ...  ...     130 

Appearance — 

Physical  presence  of  proctor  in  Court — Client 
absent — Is  not  such  an  appearance  as  to  make 
proceedings  inter  partes. 

Senanayakb  i>.  Cooray  ...  ...         9 

The  exact  point  of  time  at  which  a  party  ^lumlll 
appear  in  the  Court  of  Requests.  Civil  Proc  edure 
Code  §  823  (1),  (2),  (H). 

ScHRADER  V.  Joseph  ...  ...       99 

Cattle  trespass — 

In  a  charge  under  §  12  of  the  cattle  Irebpass 
Ordinance  of  1876,  there  must  be  proof  that  the 
cattle  which  the  accused  is  charged  with  removing 
without  lawful  right  were  legally  seized  or  detain- 
ed for  trespass  or  otherwise  under  the  provisions 
of  that  Ordinance. 

Don  Thomas  v.  Don  Girigoris  ...       7il 

Cheating  by  personation — 

See  Penal  Code 

Civil  Procedure  Code — 

1.  §  241.  An  order  dismissing  a  claim  to  property 
seized  in  execution  of  a  writ  on  account  of  the 
absence  of  the  claimant  on  the  day  of  the  inquiry 
may  be  vacated  with  the  consent  of  the  parties. 

SiLVA  V.  Maeikar...  ...  ...       112 

2.  §  287  of  the  Code  applies  only  to  sales  by  the 
Fiscal  and  not  to  sales  held  by  an  auctioneer 
under  -the  authority   of   the  Court  under  §  201, 


Page 

But  the  Court  has  inherent  power  to  render  sales 
of  immoTeable  property  made  under  its  order 
effectual  and  to  place  the  purchaser  in  possession 
of  such  property. 

Abeybratne  r.  Perera         ...  ...        59 

3.  §§  28.*,  64;5,  644.  A  person  who  has  purchased 
property  at  a  Fiscal's  sale  but  has  not  obtained 
transfer  has  no  title  and  is  not  entitled  to  have 
notice  of  an  action  which  a  mortgagee  of  such 
property  is  bringing  to  enforce  his  bond. 

A  Fiscal's  seizure  is  not  an  encumbrance 
within  the  meaning  of  §  643  of  the  Code. 

Sekan  Marirar  u.  Rodrigo  ...        51 

4.  §  517  of  the  Code  while  it  penalises  <loes  not 
prohibit  the  transfer  of  property  which  ought  to 
have  been  but  which  has  not  been  administered, 
and   such   a   transfer  is    not  necessai'ily  invalid. 

Power  of  District  Court  to  stay  proceedings 
and  give  plaintiil  opportunity  of  taking  out 
letters  of  administration  before  action  is  further 
proceeded  with. 

Abdul  IIas-en  Hadjiar  v.  Levana 
Marfkar  ...  ...  ...      1.53 

Costs  (Lien  for) — 
S(v  Proctor 

Court  of  Requests  (appearance  of  parlies  in) — 
SW  Appearance 

Issues — 

Necessity  for  settling  issues  before  proceeding 
to  trial. 

Thomas  Fernando  v.  Pefues  ...        79 

Interlocutory  appeal  from  the  decision  of  an 
issue. 

S/V  APPEAL. 

Labour  Ordinance — 

Motor  car  chauffeur  not  a  servant  or  journey 
man  artidcer. 


IV. 

Page 
Bliss  v.  Perkra     ...  ...  ...       80 

Sub-Kangany — refusal  to  woi-k  as  a  cooly  when 
ordered  to  do  so — liable  under  the  ordinance. 

Hudson  i\  Ponniah  Kangany  ...      165 

Criminal  Procedure  Code —  s 

2.      A  less  offence  cannot  be  chosen  for  trial  while 
the  evidence  disclosea  a  graver  one. 

Nagamma  v.  Themis  Simon   ...  ...       56 

Crown  Grant- 
In  favour  of  a  deceased  person — void 
Manis  Appuhamy  v.  Nona    ...  ...      ]71 

Decree — 

Amendment  after  passing  the  seal  of  the  court- - 
§  189  Civil  Procedure  Code — Inherent  jurisdiction 
of  the  Supreme  Court. 

Deonis  v.  Missinona  ...  ...         1 

Estoppel — 

Mis-representation  by  minor  and  married  wo- 
man—legal disability, 

SiNNO  APPU  r.   PODINONA  ...  ...        124 

Fiscal's  Conveyance — 

»ev  Civil  Procedure  Code  (?>) 

Gaming  (unlawful) — 

Playing  a  game  of  skill — existence  of  a  stake — 
essence  of  the  offence  of  gaming. 

MODDKR    ('.   SiLVA 

Lease,  action  for  cancellation  of — 

When  may  a  lease  or  planting  agreement  be 
cancelled  before  the  expiry  of  the  term  of  agree- 
ment. 

Perkra  v.  Peris      ...  ...  ...      161 

Over-holding  lessee — trespasser  liable  in  vindic- 
tive damages. 


V. 

Page 
Abuul  Rahim  &  Hasamal      ...  ...  5 

Minor,  Contract  by  a — 

Roman  Dutch  law  of  ratification. 

Ramen  Chetty  v.  81LVA  ...  ...       147 

New  Contention — 

Not  involved  in  the  issues — when  admissible  for 
the  first  time  in  Appeal  Court. 

Manis  Appuhamy  v.  Nona      ...  ...      171 

Partition  Ordinance — 

Interlocutoi'y  decree  for  i)ai'tition.  Court  of 
first  instance  may  not  set  it  aside  and  order  a  sale. 

Silva  v.  Silva  ...  ...  ...         91 

Penal  Code — 

§  183.  Voluntarily  obstructing  a  public  servant 
verbal  refusal  to  allow  a  public  servant  to  perform 
his  duty. 

Fernando  v.  Ali  Marikak     ...  ...      173 

Penal  Code — 

§§  i398, 102.  Cheating  by  personation — proof  of 
damage  or  harm  to  the  party  deceived — test  of 
fraudulent  deception. 

The  Attorney  General  v.  Romel  Fernando  ...   6!* 

Penal  provision  in  a  statute- 

se«  Civil  Procedure  Code       ...  ...  ...       547 

Possession — 

Of  one  co-heir,  possession  by  all — unity  of  title 
and  possession. 

COREA  V.  ISERIS  APPUHAMY       ...  ...  ;iO 

Prescription — 

Agreement  in  writing- to  retransfer  a  land  with- 
in ten  years  on  repayment  of  purchase  money — 
when  does  cause  of  action  to  compel  specific  per- 
formance accrue — term  of  prescription. 


Page 
Emis  v.  Sango         ...      •         ...  ...       66 

Proctor — 

1.  See  Appearance 

2.  Application  by — for  stay  or  postponement  of 
sale  under  §  258  of  the  Code — Proctor  not  person- 
ally liable  for  Fiscal's  fees. 

T.  M.  Fernando  v.  Deputy    Fiscal    of 
CHILAW  ...  ...  ...      122 

Promissory  Note — 

Actions  on  Promissory  Notes  are  regulated  by 
the  (Jivil  Procedure  Code — English  Law  of  Pro- 
cedure does  not  apply  to  actions  on  Bills  of  Ex- 
change and  Promissory  Notes. 

MUDALIHAMY   V.    PUNCHI   BANDA  ...  95 

Registration— 

1.  A  deed  which  has  been  registered  in  the  wrong 
folio  is  void  as  against  parties  claiming  an  adverse 
interest  on  valuable  consideration  by  virtue  of  a 
subsequent  deed  which  has  been  duly  registered. 

Paaris  v.  Perbra  —  ...        85 

2.  A  deed  of  donation  which  is  prior  in  date  to  a 
deed  for  valuable  consideration  but  is  registered 
after  the  registration  of  the  latter  deed  is  void  as 
against  the  latter. 

KANAPAIHIPILLAI  ('.  Mohammadu  Tamby 
Levvai  ...  ...  ...      Iu9 

Res  Judicata — 

Where  an  action  brought  by  a  purchaser  at  a 
Fiscal's  sale  who  had  not  obtained  the  Fiscal's 
transfer  was  dismissed,  such  dismissal  is  no  bar 
to  a  subsequent  action  brought  after  obtaining  the 
Fiscal's  conveyance. 

Kurera  v.  Tamel  ...  ...      168 

Stamp  Duty — 

1.  Claims  in  convention  and  reconvention.  Here 
pleadings  should  be  stamped. 


Vll. 

Page 
Vellasamypulle  v.  The  Uplands  Tea 
Estates  op  Ceylon  ..  ...      108 

2       How   petition    of   appeal  should  be  stamped — 
Time  limit. 

SiNNliTAMBY   V.   TANGAMMA      ...  ...         151 

Voluntarily  obstructing  a  public  servant — 

See  Penal  Code 


TABLE    OF  CASES    REPORTED. 


Abdul  Hassen  Hadjiar  i<.  Levana  Marikar 

Abdul  Rahim  i<.  Hasamal 

Abeyeratne  v.  Perera 

Abeyesekera  i'.  Silva 

A  rumugam  v.  Thampu 

Attorney-General  (The)  r.  Romis  Fernando 

Attorney-General  (The)  ;'.  Capt.  Skinner 

Bliss  r.  Perera 

Corea  v.  Iseris  Appuhamy 

Deonis  )'.  Missinona 

Don  Thomas  v.  Don  Girigoris 

Emis  i;.  Sango 

Fernando  v.  Deputy  Fiscal  of  Chilaw 

Fernando  f.  Alia  Marikar 

Goonetilleke  r.  Saineris 

Henry  de  Costa  ;'.  Lewis  Silva 

Hudson  V.  Ponniah  Kangany 

Kanapathipillai  u.  Mohammado  Tamby 

Kurera  r.  Tame! 

Manis  Appuhamy  u.  Nona     ... 

Medankara  Unanse  /'.  Andris 

Modder  i'.  Silva 

Mudalihamy  v.  Punchi  Banda 

Nagamma  i\  Themis  Sinno 

Paaris  v.  Perera 

Perera  v.  Peris 

Rajapakse  v.  Rajapakse 

Ramen  Chetty  r.  Silva 

Sawyer  c.  Tringham 

Schrader  o.  Joseph 

Sekan  Marikar  v.  Godage 


Page 

153 

5 

59 
37 
130 
69 
61 
80 
30 
3 

76 

66 

122 

172 

42 

128 

165 

109 

168 

171 

14 

47 

95 

56 

85 

161 

21 

147 

135 

99 

51 


IX. 


Senanayake  v.  Cooray 

Silva  u.  Marikar 

Silva  V.  Silva 

Sinnetamby  v.  Tangamma 

Sinno  Appu  u.  Podinona 

Thomis  Fernando  ;;.  Peries 

VellasamypuUe  v.  The  Uplands  Tea  Estates  of  Ceylon 

Wijesooriya  v.  Mepinona 


Page 

9 

119 

91 

151 

124 

79 

108 

-44 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES 


OF    CEYLON: 


BEING 


Reports  of  Ca^^  decided  by  the  Sdpreine  Court  of  Ceylon  in  its  Original 

and  Appellate  Jurisdiction,  and  sitting  as  a  Colonial  Cburl  of 

Admii'alty  and  by  His  Majesty's  Privy  Council 

on  Appeal  from  C^lon, 


EDITED    BY 

A.  -St.    y.    JAYEWARDENE, 

'    Bartifti^r'ftt'Law.' 
L     H.    De    ALWIS,  -      , 

JAMES    JOSEPH, 

E.    G.    P.    JAYETILEKE,  ' 

Advocatea  of  the 

Supreme  court. 


VoL  II    Part  XII  «  , 

OCTOBER,  1913. 


(T-//^ 


PRINTERS: 

THE   CEYLONESE   UNION   Co..    Ltd 

COLOMBO. 


COURT    OF     APPEAL    CASES 

OF    CEYLON: 

BEING 

Repokts  op  Cases  Decided  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  Ckylon  in 

its  original  and  appellate   jurisdiction  and  sitting  as  a 

Colonial  Coubt  of  Admiralty  and  by  His  Majesty's 

Privy  Council  on  Appeal  from  Ceylon. 


ISMAIL  LEBBE  v.  UDUMA  LBBBE   et  al. 

No,  3,653,  D.  C,  Kalutara. 
Present:  Middleton  &  Wood  Renton,  JJ. 

ITth  January,  1912. 

Evidence  Ordinance  yd.  14  of  1S95  §§  13  ^  43 — previima  judgment  not 
inter  partes — a  "transaction  or  i7istance" — how  far  relevant  in  siibsequent  liti- 
gatioa—res  inter  alios  acta — res  judicata. 

None  of  the  provisions  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance  were  intended  to 
subvert  the  principle  res  inter  alios  acta  alteri  nocere  non  debet. 

A  judgment  not  admissible  in  evidence  under  §  i3  of  the  Evidence 
Ordinance  could  only  be  admissible  under  §  13  to  prove  litigation  on  the 
claim  made,  that  is  to  say,  the  assertion  or  denial  of  the  custom  or  right 
in  question  which  constitutes  a  transaction  or  particular  instance  within 
the  meaning  of  §  13.  It  cannot  be  used  to  prove  that  the  litigation  was 
decided  in  favour  of  one  party  rather  than  the  other,  nor  are  its  reasons 
relevant,  and  it  is  not  to  be  relied  on  to  show  by  itself  in  a  subsequent 
litigation  that  either  of  the  parties  were  right  or  wrong  in  their  asser- 
tion or  denial  of  the  claim  litigated  or  adjudicated  upon. 

This  is  a  partition  action  in  which  a  contest  arose   res- 
pecting a  ^  share  of  a  field,  marked  Lot '  in  plan  W  ',  between 


2  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Ismail  Lebbe  the  appellant,  who  is  the  14th  defendant,  and  the  respondents, 
Uduma  ^^°  '^^^  *^®  llth-13th  and  the  32nd-36th  defendants.  The 
Lebbe  et  al.  former  claimed  title  by  right  of  inheritance  from  the  original 
owner,  while  the  Ititter  claimed  the  same  share  by  right  of 
prescription.  The  ancestors  of  the  respondents  had  entered 
upon  a  portion  of  the  fisld  in  dispute  on  a  notarial  deed, 
which  was  partly  a  lease  and  partly  a  planting  agreement, 
from  one  Sultan  Marikar,  who  owned  a  ^  share  of  the  field ; 
but  in  action  No.  2,092  instituted  in  the  District  Court  of 
Kalutara  in  the  year  1900  by  certain  purchasers  from  Sultan 
Marikar  for  a  declaration  of  title  some  of  the  respondents 
and  their  predecessors  in  title  successfully  pleaded  a  pre- 
scriptive title  to  Sultan  Marikar's  rights.  In  the  present  action 
also  the  respondents  claimed  to  be  entitled  to  Sultan 
Marikar's  g-  share  by  prescriptive  possession.  At  the  trial 
the  depositions  of  some  of  the  witnesses  in  action  No.  2,092 
were  read  in  evidence,  but  not  the  judgment,  and  the  District 
Judge  (Paul  Pieris,  Esq.)  held  as  follows  : — 

"There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  clients  of  Mr.  Wijemanna  (11th- 
13th)  and  Mr.  D.  Gunetilleke  (the  iilst-36th  defendants)  have  cultivated 
for  60  years  Lot  *  in  W  ^  That  is  exactly  what  they  were  entitled  to 
do  under  W  ^  ;  and  it  is  nonsense  to  speak  of  prescription  after  that." 

From  this  judgment  the  present  respondents  appealed, 
and  at  the  appeal  it  was  contended  that  the  District  Judge 
had  ignored  the  judgment  in  D.  0.  2,092  in  which  it  had 
been  held  that  the  respondents  had  obtained  a  title  by  pre- 
scription against  the  transferees  of  the  grantor  of  W .  The 
Supreme  Court  set  aside  the  judgment  of  the  District  Judge 
and  sent  the  case  back  remarking  : — 

"As  it  is  important  that  the  title  of  the  parties  in  this  complicated 
case  should  be  clearly  ascertained,  we  think  that  the  present  course  will 
be  to  set  aside  so  much  of  the  decree  as  allots,  i  of  the  land  to  the  lith 
defendant  and  remit  the  case  to  the  District  Judge  to  adjudicate  on  the 
claim  of  the  appellants  and  the  lith  defendant  to  Lot  Mn  W  ^  having 
regard  to  the  effect  thereon  of  the  judgment  in  action  No.  2092." 

When  the  case  went  back  the  judgment  in  action  2,092 
was  read  in  evidence,  some  further  evidence  was  recorded, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  3 


and  the  District  Judge  gave  judgment  for  the  respondents  in  Ismail  Lebbe 

V. 

tJduma 
Lebbe  et  al. 


these  terms  :-  ^^^^^ 


At  the  trial  it  was  agreed  that  the  evidence  already'recorded  by  my 
predecessor  should  be  read  in  evidence. 

The  further  evidence  recorded  is  very  little.  13th  defendant  has 
put  in  a  .copy  of  the  judgment  of  the  Supreme  Court  in  case  2,092 
with  the  evidence  of  three  witnesses.  One  of  these  witnesses,  Uduma 
Lebbe,  has  also  been  called  as  a  witness.  The  Itth  defendant  relied  on 
the  evidence  of  the  P.  V.  and  Isi  Lebbe  already  examined,  and  called  no 
further  evidence.  I  have  gone  through  the  previous  evidence  recorded, 
and  I  see  no  reason  to  dissent  from  my  predecessor's  remarks  in  his  judg- 
ment on  the  question  of  possession.  He  said  :  "There  can  be  no  doubt 
whatever  that  the  clients  of  Mr.  Wijemanna  and  Mr.  D.  Gunetilleke  have 
cultivated  for  50  years  Lot  ^  in  W  ","  This  fixes  the  identity  of  the  land 
and  disposes  of  the  contention  of  lith  defendant  that  what  the  defend- 
ants possessed  was  outside  the  land  surveyed  to  the  east.  The  prede- 
cessor went  on  to  say  ;  "That  is  exactly  what  they  were  entitled  to  do 
under  W  ',  and  it  is  nonsense  to  speak  of  prescription  after  that."  This  is 
the  part  of  the  judgment  from  which  the  defendants  dissent  and  on 
which  I  am  asked  to  decide  in  the  light  of  the  fresh  evidence  now  adduc- 
ed. This  fresh  evidence  consists  of  the  proceedings  in  2,092  already 
mentioned.  These  proceedings  clearly  established  the  right  of  12th  and 
13th  defendants  and  the  father  of  11th  defendant  (Siyadoris)  to  lot  No.  1 
in  the  present  survey,  representing  the  eastern  7  acres  of  the  land.  The 
present  15th  defendant  was  Ist  plaintiff  in  that  case,  and  he  was  there- 
fore bound  by  it.  The  lith  defendant  was  not  however  a  party.  It  is 
not  therefore  res  judicata  as  far  as  he  is  concerned.  It  seems  to  me  how- 
ever an  extremely  strong  piece  of  evidence  against  him.  The  same  facts 
which  were  before  the  Judg-e  in  the  previous  case  are  before  me  now. 
No  new  facts  appear  to  have  come  to  light.  The  previous  history  of  the 
land  which  influenced  the  decision  in  the  previous  case  is  the  same  now, 
and  11th  defendant  has  not  shewn  why  it  should  not  have  the  same 
influence  over  my  judgment. 

I  find  therefore  that  the  llth-lSth  and  31st-36th  defendants  have 
obtained  a  prescriptive  possession  of  the  land.  I  therefore  decree  that 
they  be  declared  entitled  to  the  J  already  decreed  to  the  14th  defendant 
and  direct  that  the  interlocutory  decree  be  amended  accordingly." 

Prom  the  judgment  the  14th  defendant  appealed. 

E.  W.  /az/eii^arc^CTie  for  the  14th  defendant-appellant. — 
The  judgment  in  D.  C,  Kalutara,  2,092  was  not  ad- 
missible in  evidence  as  against  the  appellant,  as  he  was  not  a 
party  to  that  action,  nor  were  the  depositions  of  the  witnesses 


4  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Ismail  Lebbe  in  that  case  admissible.  A  judgment  in  a  case  would  only 
Uduma       t)ind  the  parties  to  it  and  their  privies  but   not  third  parties. 

Lebbc  et  al.  The  judgment  in  action  2,092  merely  decided  that  the 
respondent  had  acquired  a  title  by  prescription  against  the 
transferees  of  Sultan  Marikar.  Surely  that  would  not  bind 
the  appellant.  As  appears  from  the  judgment,  the  District 
Judge  has  surrendered  his  own  judgment  and  has  adopted  in 
its  entirety  the  judgment  in  2,092. 

[Jllddleton,  J. — We  should  like  to  hear  the  other  side.J 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene,  for  the  defendants- respondents, 
contended  that  as  these  grounds  of  appeal  were  not  taken  in 
the  lower  Court  or  in  the  petition  of  appeal  they  should  be 
rejected. 

A  judgment,  though  not  between  the  same  parties,  was 
relevant  under  §  L3  as  a  transaction  in  which  the  right  in 
dispute  was  claimed  and  recognized.  If  the  Court  was  going 
to  allow  the  argument  on  the  new  point  raised,  he  asked  for 
an  adjournment. 

The  argument  was  accordingly  adjourned. 

On  resumption  at  a  later  date  (17-12-11). 

A.St.  V .  Jayeivardene,  for  the  respondents. — In  the  pre- 
vious case  No.  2,092  a  right  to  the  property  by  prescriptive 
possession  was  "claimed",  "asserted",  and  "recognized".  The 
previous  litigation  is  an  "instance"  within  the  meaning  of 
§  13  (J))  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance. 

The  Privy  Council  has  held  in  several  cases  that  previous 
litigation  although  not  inter  pat^t/^s  is  relevant  in  a  subsequent 
action.  In  EamesJuu-  Pershad  Naraiii  Singh  v.  Kunghehari 
Pathick  1  criminal  proceedings  not  inter  partes  and  an 
agreement  entered  into  between  persons  who  were  not  parties 
to  the  suit  were  held  admissible  to  explain  the  character  of 
the  enjoyment  to  the  property  which  is  the  subject-matter 

i,     {1878)4  Gal.  6S^, 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  5 

of  this  suit,  Eambahadnr  Singh  v.  Luch  Koer  ^ .     In  Ram  Ismail  Lebbe 

v. 
Rangan  Ghakerhati  i\  Ram    Narain   Singh  -,  in  which   a      uduma 

question  regarding  the  amount  of  rent  payable  was  raised,  and  L^bbe  et  ai. 
the  defendants  submitted  a  decree  in  a  previous  case  to  which 
the  plaintiflE  was  no  p  irty,  their  Lordships  observed  "that 
although  the  predecessors  of  the  plaintiflE  were  no  party  to 
that  litigation,  it  was  competent  to  use  the  judgment  as 
evidence  showing  the  rent  paid  for  the  possession  at  and 
jii-'mr  til  that  date  now  nearly  80  years  ago".  The  words 
"prior  to  that  date"  are  to  be  noted.  In  Bitto  Kiiinvar  v. 
Kesho  Pershad  Missier  ^  their  Lordships  upheld  the  same 
principle  remarking  :  "This  decision  is  not  conclusive  against 
Bacha  Tewari  as  the  suit  was  not  between  the  same  parties 
as  the  present  suit,"  but  their  Lordships  agree  with  the  Sub- 
ordinate Judge  that  it  was  evidence  against  him.  A  different 
view  had  been  held  by  the  Full  Bench  in  Calcutta ;  but  in 
Tepu  Khan  v.  Rajairi  Mohun  Das  *  (also  a  Full  Bench 
case)  Sir  Francis  MacLean  said  "But  as  the  two  cases  decided 
by  the  Full  Bench  in  this  Court,  the  case  of  Gugga  Lull  v, 
Fatteh  Lall  ^  and  the  later  case  of  Surendra  Nath  Pal 
Choiudry  v.  Broji  Nath  Pal  Choivdnj  •=  have  been  referred  to, 
I  feel  bound  to  express  my  opinion  that  having  regard  to  the 
recent  observations  of  the  Privy  Council  in  the  case  of  Ram 
Ramjan  Uhakerhati  v.  Ram  Narain  Singh  ^  and  in 
the  more  recent  case  of  Bitto  Kunwar  v.  Kesho  Pershad  ^ 
the  Full  Bench  decisions  referred  to  must  be  regard- 
ed as  materially  qualified,  because  it  is  clear  from  the  deci- 
sions in  the  Privy  Council  that  under  certain  circumstances 
and  in  certain  cases  the  judgment  in  a  previous  suit,  to  which 
one  of  the  parties  in  the  subsequent  suit  was  not  a  party, 
may  be  admissible  in  evidence  for  certain  purposes  and  with 
certain  objects  in  the  subsequent  suit. 

\_W<Md  Renton,   J,,  referred   to   the  judgment   of   the 


1.  (1884)  11  Gal.  301  at  p.  310.     4.     (1898)  25  Gal.  522. 

2.  (1894)  22  Cat.  583.  5.     (1880)  6  Gal.  171. 

3.  (1880)  6  Gal.  171.  6.    \1886)  13  Gal.  352, 


6  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Ismail  Lebbe  Privy  Council  in  Dino7nani   Chowdrani  v.  Brogo  Mohun 

TJduma      Chowdrani  i.] 
Lebbe  et  al. 

That  case  goes  further,  and  it  is  there  held  that  Police 

orders  deciding  who  was  in  possession  of  property  with  all 

maps  and  reports   attached   to   such  orders  are  admissible 

under  §  13. 


In  the  ease  of  Peari  Mohun  Mukerji  v.  Drobomozi 
Dahia  -,  in  the  course  of  his  judgment,  Cunningham,  J.,  said : 
"Objection  has  been  raised  to  this  judgment  that  it  is  not 
itit/'r  pa?~/es  and  is  therefore  inadmissible  in  evidence.  As 
regards  this  objection,  we  think  the  document  is  admissible 
in  evidence  as  showing  the  nature  of  the  possession  of  the 
defendant's  predecessor  in  title.  As  a  rule  judgments  are  evi- 
dence only  between  parties,  but  there  is  an  exception  to  this. 
In  the  case  oiDavies  v.  Lowndes  "  it  was  decided  that  decrees 
in  Chancery  between  other  parties,  concerning  the  same 
lands,  were  admissible  in  evidence,  to  show  the  character  in 
which  the  possessor  enjoyed  the  lands.  That  decision  is  in 
consonance  with  the  judgment  of  the  Privy  Council  in  the 
case  of  Rameshur  Pershad  Narain  Singh  v.  Kunjhehari 
Pathick  *. 

In  this  particular  case,  therefore,  the  previous  judgment 
in  D.  C.  No.  2,092  is  admissible  as  showing  the  character  of 
the  possession  at  the  time  and  prior  to  the  institution  of  that 
action  although  the  admission  of  a  judgment  not  intir  partes 
may  appear  to  conflict  with  the  principle  laid  down  in  the 
maxim  "res  rntn-  alios  acta  alter i  nocere  delist"  we  are  con- 
cerned with  the  construction  of  a  special  statute  and  the 
observations  of  Douglas  Straight,  J.,  when  construing  the 
same  section  of  the  Indian  Evidence  Act  and  in  meeting  a 
similar  objection,  will  apply.  He  said  :  "It  seems  to  me  that 
the  decision  (of  it)  must  be  looked  for  in  the  Evidence  Act  in 


1.     {1901)  29  Cat.  187  at  j>.  198.     3.     1  Bina,  N.  C.  606. 
8.     {1885)  11  Cal.  US,  4.     {1878)  4  Cal,  688. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  7 

force  in   this  country   and  that  we  really  have  nothing  to  do  Ismail  Lebbe 
with  the  principles  of  the  English  or  of  any  other  law  which      xjduma 
might  apply,  if  that  Act  were  not  in  force  and   binding  upon   Lebbe  et  ah 
us.     We   must   take  that   Act  as  we  find  it  and  none  the  less  Middleton,  J. 
give  eflEect  to  it  because   upon  a  rational  and   ordinary   con- 
stracfcion  of  its  provisions  according  to  well    recognized  rules 
of  interpreting  statutes,  they  appear   to  sanction  something 
Courts  in  England  or  other  systems  of  law  would  not  permit 
or  to  depart  from  principles  adopted  by  those  Courts   or   the 
Courts   of   other  Countries.     The  Gollector   of  Garalqmr  r. 
Palandhary  Singh  ^. 


E.    W.  Jd.yetvai'dciie  in  reply. 

Middleton,  J. — This  was  a  pai-tition  action  which  came 
up  in  appeal  before  this  Court  once  befoi-e  upon  the  same 
question,  when  this  Court  set  aside  the  judgment  of  the 
District  Judge  allowing  to  the  14th  defendant  one-third  of 
the  land  called  Andunuwenne  UdumuUe,  and  directed  the 
District  Court  to  adjudicate  upon  the  claim  of  the  parties  to 
Lot  1  in  the  plan  W  ^  having  regard  to  the  effect  of  the  judg- 
ment in  action  No.  2,092  of  the  Kalutara  ;Court  upon  the 
same. 

The  question  raised  on  the  appeal  by  the  Uth  to  the 
13th  defendants,  heard  by  this  Court  on  the  8th  May,  1911, 
was  whether  the  District  Julge,  Mr.  Pieris,  was  right  in 
awarding  one-third  of  the  land  in  partition  to  the  14th  defend- 
ant which  share  would  extend  to  the  Lot  1  in  W  '^  which 
the  same  learned  Judge  held  had  been  cultivated  for  50  years 
by  the  11th  to  the  13th  and  the  32nd  to  the  36th  defendants. 

There  is  some  doubt  in  my  mind  whether  the  judgment 
of  Mr.  Pieris  has  dealt  with  all  the  shares  in    the  land,  and 


1.     (188!))  U  AIL  1  at  p.  ID. 


8  COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 

Ismail  Lebbe  also  if   the  decree   on  his  judgment  is  not  incorrect  in  not 
Uduma      dealing  with  the  3/24th  shares  to   bo   allotted  to  the  15th 
Lebbe  et  ,il.  defendant  when  he  produces  US  '  (see  Record  p.  131). 

Middleton,  J. 

The  order  of  this  Court  of  the  8th  May,  1911,  was  in- 
tended to  enable  the  Court  to  adjudicate  on  the  claim  of  the 
co;uesting  parties  to  Lot  1  in  W  ■'  having  regard  to  the  effect 
of  the  judgment  in  No.  2,092,  Kalutara. 

By  an  arrangement  between  the  parties  made  at  the  new 
trial  before  Mr.  Russell,  and  recited  by  him  in  his  judgment, 
it  was  agreed  that  the  contest  should  be  confined  to  the 
l/3rd  allotted  to  the  14th  defendant  in  the  interlocutory 
decree.  So  that  the  questioii  he  had  to  decide  was  whether, 
taking  into  consideration  the  effect  of  the  judgment  in  action 
No.  2,092,  the  11th  to  the  LJth  and  the  32nd  to  the  36th 
defendants  had  established  a  title  by  prescription  to  the 
entirety  of  Lot  1  in  W  '  to  the  exclusion  of  any  share  in  it 
by  the  14th  defendant. 

The  District  Court  has  decided  in  favour  of  the 
llth-13th  and  32nd-36th  defendants-respondents.  The  14th 
defendant  appealed. 

The  decision  of  the  District  Judge  was  clearly  affected 
by  the  view  he  took  of  what  the  judgment  in  No.  2,092  prov- 
ed, and  the  argument  in  appeal  turned  entirely  upon  whether 
the  judgment  in  question  was  admissible  under  §  13  of  the 
Evidence  Ordinance,  and  if  so  what  was  the  extent  of  its 
probative  value. 

I- think  it  is  impossible  now  to  exclude  the  statements  of 
the  witnesses  heard  in  action  No.  2,092,  which  have  been 
clearly  admitted  in  evidence  by  the  District  Court  without 
objection  on  the  part  of  Counsel  appearing  for  the  14th 
defendant.  Moreover  one  of  these  witnesses,  /.  e,,  Samsi 
Lebbe  Uduma  Lebbe,  has  been  called  on  the  new  trial  here, 
and  has  confirmed  the  evidence  he  gave  in  No.  2,092. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  9 

In  the  first  place  I  do  not  think  our  Evidence  Ordinance  Ismail  Lebbe 
or  the  IncMan  Evidence  Act,  which  is  practically  the  same,      uduma 
ever   intended   that  the    principle  of   res    iittrr   alius    acta  Lebbe  et  al. 
alteri  noci']-/-   nun  dahrl  should   be   subverted  by  any  of  its  jviidjietpn^  j. 
provisions. 

Taking  this  hypothesis  as  a  sound  basis  of  argument,  it 
is  clear  to  my  mind  according  to  Mr.  Ameer  Ali  that  a  judg- 
ment not  admissible  in  evidence  under  §  43  could  only 
be  admissible  under  §  13  to  prove  litigation  on  the  claim 
made,  that  is  to  say,  the  assertion  or  denial  of  the  cus- 
tom or  right  in  question  which  constitutes  a  transaction  or 
particular  instance  within  the  meaning  of  §  13.  It  cannot 
be  used  to  prove  that  the  litigation  was  decided  in  favour 
of  one  party  rather  than  the  other,  nor  are  its  reasons 
relevant,  and  it  is  not  to  be  relie  i  on  to  show  by  itself  in  the 
subsequent  litigation  that  either  of  the  parties  were  right  or 
wrong  in  their  assertion  or  denial  of  the  claim  litigated  and 
adjudicated  upon.  {Aincer  Ali  <»i  tJie  Law  ofEvidencp  ^  com- 
menting on  the  decisions  of  the  Privy  Council  in  Ram 
Ragan  Chalwfljali  v.  Ram  Narain  Singh  '  and  Bitti 
Kuiinar  v.  Karbo  Pcrshad  '  referred  to  in  Tejm  Klian  v 
Rajairi  Mohun  Das  "*  where  the  rule  laid  down  in  Ougga 
Lai  V,  Falleb  Lai  ■>  was  held  to  be  materially  qualified  by  the 
Privy  Council  decisions.) 

The  District  Judge  states  that  the  judgment  of  this 
Court  in  appeal  in  No.  2,092  was  put  in  evidence  before  him, 
but  I  am  unable  to  put  my  hand  on  it  in  the  record.  The 
only  judgment  copy  of  which  I  find  in  the  record  is  a 
copy  of  the  District  Court  judgment  in  that  action. 

In  this  judgment  it  appears  that  11th,  12th,  and  13th 
defendants  in  the  present  action  were  claiming  as  defendants 
against  certain  parties-plaintiffs  (amongst  whom  was  15th 
defendant  here     claiming    through    Sultan    Marikar)    that 


i,     3rd  Edition,  pp.  155  d- 136.    3.     (1897)  L.  R.  I.  A.  10. 
2.     (1894)  I.  L.  R.  33  Cat.  533.    4.    I.  L.  R.  35  Gal.  532. 
5.     (1880)  L  L.R.6  Gal.m. 


]0 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Ismail  Lebbe  7   acres   Or   one-half  of  the  land  in  question  in  this  action 
Udiima      belonged   really   to    them   by   inheritance   from  one  Samsi 
Lebbe  et  n!.    Lebbe. 

Wood 
Renton,  J,  ^  ..,,...,  ,      ,  , .  .      , 

In  my  opinion  this  is  the  only  transaction  or  particular 
instance  which  the  judgment  is  relevant  to  prove  under 
§  13  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance. 

The  13th  defendant  in  his  evidence  identifies  the  land 
claimed  in  No.  2,092  as  the  north-east  half  of  the  land  now 
in  dispvite,  and  Mr.  Pieris  further  fixes  its  identity  with 
Lot  '  in  W  3. 

Eliminating  from  consideration  the  remarks  of  Mr. 
Russell  beginning  at  page  141  of  the  Record,  "This  fresh 
evidence  consists  of  the  proceedings  in  2,092  already  men- 
tioned" down  to  the  words  at  page  142  ending  "and  14th 
defendant  has  not  shown  why  it  should  not  have  the  same 
influence  over  my  judgment",  I  am  of  opinion  that  the  limit- 
ed probative  effect  of  the  judgment  in  2,092  is  rather  to 
increase  the  weight  of  the  reasons  given  by  Mr.  Peiris  for 
deciding  that  the  11th  to  13th  and  the  32nd  to  the  36th 
defendants  had  cultivated  Lot  ^  for  50  years  and  that  was 
what  they  were  entitled  to  unrler  W  ',  meaning  I  must  hold 
that  they  had  obtained  a  title  by  prescription  and  were  not 
mere  cultivators.  I  think  therefore  that  the  judgment 
appealed  against  must  be  affirmed  and  the  appeal  dismissed 
with  costs. 


Wood  Renton,  J. — I  have  had  the  advantage  of  read- 
ing the  judgment  of  my  brother  Middleton.  I  entirely  agree 
with  it,  and  I  desire  only  to  adi  a  word  on  the  question 
whether  the  judgment  in  case  No.  2,092  D.  C,  Kalutara, 
although  insufficient  to  establish  a  plea  of  res /ud/r«irf  as 
against  the  appellant,  can  be  relied  upon,  as  the  learned 
District  Judge  in  the  present  case  has  relied  upon,  as  evi- 
dence against  him.    After  full  consideration  of  the  numerous 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES.  11 

Indian  decisions,  including  several  judgments  of  the  Privy 
Council,  which  were  cited  to  us  in  the  argument,  I  think  that 
this  question  must  be  answered  in  the  negative.  The  author- 
ities are  discussed  in  Anicer  Ali  on  Evidevcp,  4th  edition, 
pages  71  and  following,  and  more  briefly  in  Caspersz'' 
Modern  Estoppel  and  Res  Judicata  3rd  Edition  pages  40-42. 
They  appear  to  me  to  establish  the  proposition  that  while 
prior  judgments  not  inter  partrs  are  admissible  to  show 
assertion  of  title  and  prior  litigation  relating  thereto,  such 
judgments  are  evidence  only  of  the  fact  that  title  was  asserted 
or  made  the  subject  of  litigation,  and  not  of  the  correctness 
of  the  reasons  on  which  they  proceeded. 

I  agree  to  the  order  proposed  by  my  brother  Middleton. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant — Joronis  Fei-nandu. 

Proctors  for  respondents — B.  H.  Wijernanne  and 

D.  J.  Oounetilleke. 


-:  o  :- 


KRISTNAPPA  CHETTT  v.    CARPEN  CHETTY. 

No.  21,155,  D.  C,  Kandy. 

Present:  Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  Wood  Renton,  J. 

6th  May,  1912. 

Postdated  cltequp — Stmiij)  Oydinnnce — Eixjhuh  Law  upplivahle — intent 
tu  defraud  rcrenue— penalty  for  poatdatincj — object  of  penalty — is  penaliied 
contract 'illegal — hill  of  e.rchange — definition — Ordinance   Xo.  22  of   1909 

A  postdated  cheque  is  not  invalid. 

The  effect  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance  No.  22  of  19C9  has  been  to  assimi- 
late the  Law  of  Ceylon  as  reg'ards  postdated  cheques  to  the  Law  of 
England. 

§  6i  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance  of  1909  does  not  apply  to  cheques. 

To  determine   whether   a,   document   is  sufficiently  stamped  for  the 


12 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Kriptnappa    purpose  cf  decidinjf  upon   its   admissibility   in   evidence  the  document 
Chetty       itself  must  be  looked  at  and  not  any  collateral  circumstances. 

T. 


Carpeu 
Chetty. 


Rameii  Chetty  i:  Moluniniicd  Ghonse  '  followed. 

The  imposition  of  a  penalty  will  not  render  a  contract  illegal  where 
the  object  of  the  penalty  is  to  deter  persons  from  entering  into  the  con- 
tract or  to  protect  the  revenue. 

Mellis  et  al.  r.  Shirley  ciiiil  Freemantle  Local  Board  '  followed. 

The  facts  of  the  case  appear  in  the  judgment  of 
Lascelles,   C.  J. 

H.  A.  Jayewardene  (with  Balasinghain)  for  defendant- 
appellant. — The  cheque  sued  on  is  invalid.  §  64  of  the 
Stamp  Ordinance  of  1909  penalises  the  postdating  of  bills  of 
exchange  and  promissory  notes.  The  term  "bills  of  ex- 
change" includes  "cheques";  vide  §  3  (1)  of  Bills  of  Exchange 
Act  1882.  Further,  a  postdated  cheque  not  being  payable 
on  demand  is  really  a  bill  of  exchange,  and  as  such  is  insuffi- 
ciently stamped  according  to  our  Stamp  Ordinance  of  1909, 
and  is  therefore  illegal  and  of  no  force  or  avail  in  law. 
[Lascelles,  G.  J. — According  to  the  English  Act  the  document 
does  not  lose  the  character  of  a  cheque  by  reason  only  of  the 
postdating ;  vide  §  1.3  (2)  of  the  Bills  of  Exchange  Act 
1882.]  But  the  Bill  of  Exchange  Act  is  subject  to  our 
stamp  laws.  Though  the  case  may  be  different  in  English 
Law,  yet  under  our  law  postdating  cheques  is  penalised, 
and  this  would  imply  a  prohibition.  §  18  of  the  old 
Stamp  Ordinance  No.  11  of  1861  is  a  similar  provision  to 
§  64  of  the  ]Dresent  Ordinance,  and  under  the  old  section  it 
has  been  held  in  the  case  of  Ceylon  Mercantile  Bank  v. 
Silva  ^  that  the  drawer  and  taker  of  a  postdated  cheque 
commit  an  illegal  act  and  have  no  right  of  action  on  the 
instrument.  In  Peris  v.  Feriuindo  *  also,  following  the 
decision  in  Mellis  et  al.  v.  The  Shirley  and  Firmantle  Local 
Board  ^  and  in  Wills  v.Higgins  '  it  was  held  that  where  the 


1.  {1889)  L  L.  E.  16  Gal.  483.     3.    (1866)  Ram.  (68-68)  199. 

2.  {18S6)  16  Q.  B.  D.  446.  4.     (1904)  1  Bal.  199. 

5.     {1911)  14  N.  L.  B.  131. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  13 

contract   which   the   plaintiff   seeks  to  enforce   is   expressly  Kristnappa 
or  by  implication  forbidden  no  Court  will  lend  its  assistance  y  ^ 

to  give  it  effect.  Here  the  penalty  attached  to  the  postdating  Carpen 
of  a  cheque  implies  a  prohibition  and  renders  the  instrument 
illegal.  [_LasceU('8,  C.  J. — Under  §§66  and  67  of  the  Ordi- 
nance in  the  case  of  conveyances  of  land  a  penalty  is  attach- 
ed under  certain  circumstances  ;  would  you  say  that  the 
conveyances  are  invalid  ?]  I  would  submit  so  ;  it  would 
invalidate  the  transfers.  \_Lascelles,  0.  J. — That  is  a  start- 
ling proposition.]  However  that  is  a  case  where  the  penalty 
is  attached  to  the  Notary.  He  is  not  a  party  to  the  contract. 
\_Lascelles,  G.  J. — Is  there  any  authority  under  the  Indian 
Act  ?]  There  is  the  case  of  Eamen  Chi'ttjj  v.  Mohammed 
Ghouse  ^.  Here  the  English  cases  are  followed,  but  in  view 
of  our  Stamp  Act  the  law  stated  there  would  not  apply  to 
Ceylon. 

Where  a  man  gives  a  cheque  to  be  presented  three 
months  hence  he  must  be  held  to  have  intended  to  defraud 
the  revenue.  [  Wood  Rentoii,  J. — It  may  be  the  effect,  not  the 
intention  to  defraud.]  It  is  impossible  to  prove  the  inten- 
tion to  defraud.  The  intention  must  be  presumed  from  the 
Act.  The  inevitable  result  of  the  act  is  to  defraud  the  Gov- 
ernment of  its  revenue. 

Samereivickirtme  (with  Cooray)  for  plaintiff-respond- 
ent.— The  decision  in  Bamen  Ghetty  v.  Ghuiise  ^  is  in  point. 
§  67  of  the  Indian  Stamp  Act  is  similar  to  §  64  of  our  present 
Stamp  Ordinance.  In  this  case  it  was  held  that  the  amount 
was  recoverable  in  the  absence  of  proof  of  intention  on  the 
pai-t  of  the  plaintiff  to  defraud  the  revenue.  In  the  present 
case  there  is  no  such  intention  proved.  The  plaintiff  was 
not  in  funds  at  the  time,  and  issued  a  postdated  cheque,  which 
was  to  be  kept  as  security  and  presented  for  payment  on  the 
stipulated  date.  The  mere  fact  of  postdating  does  not  give 
rise  to  the  inference  of  intention  to  defraud.  There  has  been 
no   direct   loss  to   the   Government  by  the  postdating  of  the 


1,     (1889)  I.  L.  B.  16.  Cal.  432. 


14 


COURT  GF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Kristnappa   cheque.     §  64  of  the  Stamp   Ordinance   applies  only  to  the 
Chetty      documents  specifically  referred  to  in  it    It  applies  only  to 
bills  of  exchange  and  promissory  notes,  and  not  to  cheques. 


V. 

Carpen 
Chatty. 


Lascelles, 
C.J. 


The  document  in  question  is  a  cheque,  and  not  a  bill  of 
exchange.  And  a  document  has  to  be  stamped  according  to 
its  character  as  appears  on  the  face  of  it.  {Bull  v.  0' Sullivan  ^ 
and  Gatty  v.  Fry  -.)  The  instrument  does  not  lose  the  charac- 
ter of  a  cheque  by  reason  only  of  its  being  postdated  [Bills  of 
Exchange  Act  1882  §  13  (2)].  The  effect  of  §  64  is  to  penalise, 
not  because  the  instrument  should  have  been  stamped,  but 
because  the  plaintiff  might  have  executed  some  other  instru- 
ment and  with  intent  to  defraud  the  Government  executed 
this  instrument  instead.  With  regard  to  the  decision  in 
Geyliin  Mercanlile  Bank  v.  Silva  ^,  §  18  of  Ordinance  No.  11 
of  1861  is  in  many  respects  different  from  §  64  of  the  present 
Ordinance.  There  is  provision  there  that  a  postdated  cheque 
should  be  stamped  in  a  different  way  upon  a  graduated  scale. 
There  is  no  such  provision  in  our  Ordinance.  The  authorities 
do  not  go  so  far  as  to  hold  that  the  mere  fact  that  an  act  is 
penalised  is  necessarily  a  prohibition  which  would  invalidate 
the  contract.     Gye  v.  Felton  *. 

H.  A.  Jayewarclcne  in  reply. 


Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  appeal  raises  a  question  of  law 
which  is  of  some  public  importance,  namely,  whether  since 
the  enactment  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance  1909  an  action  can  be 
maintained  to  recover  money  on  a  postdated  cheque. 

The  defendant  on  the  15th  July,  191],  issued  to  V.  S. 
S.  P.  Supramaniam  Chetty  a  cheque  for  Rs.  4,000.  The 
cheque  was  dated  the  4th  August,  1911,  and  was  to  be  pre- 
sented for  payment  on  that  date.  Supramaniam  Chetty 
endorsed  the  cheque  to  the  plaintiff,  who  duly  presented  the 
cheque  at  the  Kandy  branch  of  the  National  Bank  of  India. 
The  cheque  having   been  returned  from  the   Bank  on  the 


1.     (1870)  L.E.6  Q.B.S09.     8. 
■2.     {1877)  L.  R.  2  Ex.  D.  265    4. 


(1866)  Ram.  (63-68)  199. 
(1813)  4  Tcmnton  876. 


COURT  OF  APPEA.L  CASES. 


15 


ground  that  the  endorser's  name  was  illegible  and  the 
maker's  name  was  not  initialled  by  the  Bank  Shroff,  the 
plaintiff  now  sues  to  recover  from  the  defendant  the  amount 
for  which  the  cheque  was  given.  The  defendant  among 
other  grounds  of  defence  pleaded  that  the  cheque,  being  post- 
dated to  the  knowledge  of  the  plaintifE,  was  void  and  o£  no 
avail  in  law.  The  leai'ned  District  Judge  has  given  judg- 
ment for  the  plaintiff. 

On  appeal  the  only  ground  urged  before  us  was  that  the 
learned  District  Judge  was  wrong  in  his  ruling  that  an  action 
on  a  postdated  cheque  was  maintainable.  The  Law  of 
Ceylon  prior  to  the  enactment  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance  1909 
may  be  stated  as  follows  : — 

By  §  2  of  Ordinance  5  o£  1852  the  law  to  be  adminis- 
tered in  Ceylon  in  respect  of  all  contracts  and  questions 
arising  withia  the  Island  upon  or  relating  to  bills  of  exchange, 
promissory  notes,  and  cheques  was  the  same  as  would  be 
administered  in  England  in  the  like  case  at  the  correspond- 
iag  period  unless  other  provision  was  or  should  be  made  by 
any  Ordinance  then  in  force  in  the  Colony  or  thereafter  to 
be  enacted.  Prior  to  the  Stamp  Act  of  1870  the  postdating 
of  cheques  payable  on  demand  was  prohibited  by  English 
Law ;  but  this  prohibition  was  removed  by  the  Stamp  Act  of 
1870,  and  cheques  by  the  law  of  England  are  not  now  invalid 
by  reason  only  that  they  are  ante-dated  (Bills  of  Exchange 
Act  1882,  §  13  (2). 

Turning  to  the  statute  law  of  Ceylon,  we  find  that 
§  18  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance  No.  11  of  1861  imposed 
penalties  on  all  who  issued  postdated  cheques  payable  on 
demand  not  duly  stamped  as  bills  of  exchange  and  on  all 
who  knowingly  received  them  and  on  bankers  who  cashed 
them.  The  application  of  this  section  was  discussed  in 
Ceylon  M('rca)itile  Bank  v.  SiJva  i,  where  it  was  decided 
that  the  holder  of  a  postdated  cheque  who  took  it  with  know- 
ledge that  it  was  postdated  could  not   sue   on  the  cheque. 


Kristnappa 
Chetty 

v. 
Carpen 
Chetty. 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


1.     (1866)  Ram.  (1863-1868)  p,  199. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES. 


Kristnappa 
Chetty 

V. 

Carpen 

Chetty. 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


The  Stamp  Ordinance  of  1890  by  §  20  (5)  re-enacted  and 
amplified  the  substance  of  §  18  of  the  Ordinance  of  1861. 
It  is  thus  clear  that  under  the  Stamp  Ordinances  which  pre- 
ceded the  enactment  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance  1909  an  action 
was  not  maintainable  on  a  postdated  cheque  payable  on 
demand  if  the  holder  took  the  cheque  with  knowledge  that 
it  was  postdated. 

The  question  raised  by  this  appeal  is  whether  the  Stamp 
Ordinance  1909  has  assimilated  the  Law  of  Ceylon  as  regards 
the  validity  of  postdated  cheques  on  demand  to  the  Law  of 
England,  or  whether  it  has  perpetuated  the  proTisions  of  the 
earlier  Stamp  Ordinances  under  which  such  cheques  are  in- 
valid. The  material  section  in  the  Stamp  Ordinance  1909 
is  §  64  (a):— 

"Any  person  who — 

(«)  With  intent  to  defraud  the  Government  of  duty, 
draws,  makes,  or  issues  any  Bill  of  Exchange  or  promis- 
sory note  bearing  a  date  subsequent  to  that  on  which 
such  bill  or  note  is  actually  drawn  or  made  ;  or " 

On  this  section  four  questions  were  discussed  which  may 
be  formulated  as  follows,  namely  : — 

(1)  Whether  affirmative  proof  of  intent  to  defraud  the 
Government  must  be  proved  ? 

(2)  Whether,  for  the  purpose  of  determining  whether 
a  cheque  is  sufficiently  stamped,  it  is  permissible  to  have 
regard  to  collateral  evidence  as  well  as  to  the  form  and 
terms  of  the  document  itself  ? 

(3)  Whether,  assuming  that  proof  of  an  intention  to 
defraud  is  unnecessary  it  follows  from  the  fact  that  the 
making  of  the  instruments  named  in  §  64  is  subjected  to  a 
penalty  that  instruments  themselves  are  invalid  ?  and 

(4)  Whether  the  section  has  any  application  to  cheques 
which  are  not  specially  referred  to  in  the  section  ? 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


17 


With   regard   to   the  first  question  in  the  Indian  case  of   Kristnappa 
Ranuni  Ohetty    v.  Mohammed   Ghouse^,  a  similar  question 


came  before  the  High  Court,  and  it  was  there  held,  under 
§  67  of  the  Indian  Stamp  Act  (corresponding  to  and  identi- 
cal with  §  64  of  the  Ceylon  Ordinance)  that  the  section 
became  applicable  only  when  fraudulent  intent  was  proved. 
This  ruling,  which  is  in  accordance  with  the  natural  construc- 
tion of  the  section,  would  dispose  of  the  present  appeal,  for 
there  is  no  proof  and  no  reason  to  suspect  that  the  cheque  now 
sued  on  was  postdated  in' order  to  defraud  the  Government. 
This  postdated  cheque,  like  most  other  postdated  cheques, 
was  given  because  the  drawer  was  not  in  funds  at  the  time. 
This  case  is  also  an  authority  on  the  second  of  the  questions 
which  I  have  formulated.  Following  the  English  authorities 
of  Btdl  0.  O'SuUivan  -  and  Gatty  v.  Fry  '^  the  High  Court 
held  that,  in  determining  whether  a  document  is  sufficiently 
stamped  for  the  purpose  of  deciding  upon  its  admissibility 
in  evidence,  you  must  look  at  the  document  itself  as  it  stands, 
and  not  at  any  collateral  circumstances  which  may  be  proved 
in  evidence.  In  other  words  the  test  of  admissibility  is 
whether  the  instrument  appears,  when  tendered  in  evidence, 
to  be  sufficiently  stamped.  This  principle  is  also  fatal  to  the 
appeal,  for  the  cheque  imder  consideration  is  in  form  and 
terms  a  cheque  on  demand,  and  bears  the  5  cent,  stamp  pre- 
scribed for  such  instruments. 

The  third  question  is  academic,  for  my  rulings  on  the 
two  former  questions  are  decisive  of  the  appeal.  But  as  the 
question  involved  is  one  which  repeatedly  crops  up  in  this 
Court,  it  may  be  well  to  state  the  conclusion  at  which  I  have 
arrived.  The  question  involved  is  whether,  when  the  Legis- 
lature imposes  a  penalty  on  persons  who  do  a  particular  act, 
such  act  is  necessarily  to  be  regarded  as  unlawful  and  of  no 
legal  efiEect.  There  are  many  English  authorities  on  the  sub- 
ject, but  the  rule  of  interpretation  laid  down  by  Lord  Esher, 
Master  of   the  Rolls,  in  Melliss  and  another  v.  The  Shirley 


V. 

Carpen 
Chetty. 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


1.     I.L.R.16  Gal.  433.  2.     L.  B.  6  Q.  B.  209. 

3.    L.  B.  2  Ex.  Div.  265. 


Ks 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 


V 

Carpen 
Chetty. 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


Kristnappa  (Did  Freeinatith'  Local  Board  of  Hcallh  i,  has,  I  believe, 
*^^®**^  been  generally  accepted  as  a  correct  statement  of  the  result 
of  the  cases  on  the  point.  "I  think,"  said  Lord  Esher,  "that 
"this  rale  of  interpretation  has  been  laid  down,  that,  although 
"a  statute  contains  no  express  words  making  void  a  contract 
"which  it  prohibits,  yet,  when  it  inflicts  a  penalty  for  the 
"breach  of  the  prohibition,  you  must  consider  the  whole  Act 
"as  well  as  the  particular  enactment  in  question  and  come  to  a 
"decision,  either  from  the  context  or  the  subject  matter, 
"whether  the  penalty  is  imposed  wi'th  intent  merely  to  deter 
"persons  from  entering  into  the  contract  or  for  the  purposes 
"of  revenue  or  whether  it  is  intended  that  Ihe  contract  shall 
"not  be  entered  into  so  as  to  be  valid  at  law." 

Applying  this  test  there  can  be  but  one  answer  to  the 
question  under  consideration,  We  find  in  the  Stamp  Ordi- 
nance r.)09  several  instances  where  penalties  are  imposed 
with  the  object  of  deterj-ing  persons  from  doing  the  prohibited 
act,  but  obviously  without  the  intention  of  branding  the 
prohibited  act  as  illegal.  By  §  67,  for  example,  a  Notary 
who,  in  preparing  an  instrument,  omits  to  set  out  the  con- 
sideration is  liable  to  a  penalty.  But  it  could  not  be  con- 
tended that  the  effect  of  this  section  was  to  invalidate  the 
instrument.  The  same  intention  is  obvious  in  §§  60,  61  and 
62  and  in  most  of  the  sections  in  chapter  vi.  I  think  it  is 
quite  clear  on  the  principle  of  construction  laid  down  in 
Melli.s  V.  The  Shirley  and  Frceinantle  Local  Board  of 
Health  ^  that  §  64  does  not  necessarily  invalidate  postdated 
cheques. 

The  last  question  is  whether  §  64  applies  at  all  to 
cheques.  The  learned  District  Judge  states  that  it  has  been 
held  that  cheques  are  not  within  the  scope  of  the  correspond- 
ing section  (68)  of  the  Indian  Stamp  Act.  Possibly  this 
statement  is  based  on  a  note  to  §  67  in  Donogh's  "Indian 
Stamp  Law".  The  authorities  there  cited  do  not  seem  to  me 
to  bear  out  the  proposition  ;  but  be  this  as  it  may,  I  think  no 
exception  can  be  taken  to  the  soundness  of  the  statement. 


-/.     16  Q.  B.  D.  446. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  19 

Section  6i  of  the  Cej'lon  Act  and  §  68  of  the  Indian  Act  Kristnappa 
refer  only  to  bills  of  exchange  and  promissory  notes.   It  is  true  ^ 

that  the  definition  of  "bill  of  exchange"  in  the  English  Bills  Carpen 
of  Exchange  Act,  which  definition  is  incorporated  in  the 
Ceylon  Ordinance,  would  include  a  cheque.  But  an  exami-  p^*""' , 
nation  of  the  Ordinance  as  a  whole  removes  all  doubt  on  the 
question.  Some  sections — §  49,  for  example — are  intended 
to  apply  to  all  three  classes  of  instruments  which  fall  within 
the  definition  of  Bills  of  Exchange,  namely,  bills  of  exchange, 
promissory  notes  and  cheques.  In  such  cases  all  three  instru- 
mnnts  are  specified.  Other  sections,  such  as  51  (1),  apply 
only  to  bills  of  exchange  and  cheques.  There  these  instru- 
ments are  specified  and  the  case  of  promissory  notes  is  dealt 
with  in  the  following  sub-section.  As  a  question  of  construc- 
tion I  am  clearly  of  opinion  that  §  61  applies  only  to  the 
instrument  specified  in  the  section  and  that  cheques  are  not 
within  the  scope  of  the  section.  The  language  of  the  Ordi- 
nance in  this  respect  is  quite  consistent.  The  term  "bill  of 
exchange"  is,  in  some  cases,  used  in  its  generic  sense  ;  but 
where  cheques  and  promissory  notes  or  either  of  these  instru- 
ments are  particularised,  the  intention  is  clear  that  the  term 
'•bill  of  exchange"  is  not  used  in  its  generic  sense,  but  is  in- 
tended to  denote  a  bill  of  exchange  in  the  ordinary  accepta- 
tion of  the  term. 

The  result  is  that  the  appeal  fails  on  all  of  the  four 
grounds  raised  in  the  argument,  I  think  there  can  be  no 
doubt  but  that  the  effect  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance  1909  has 
been  to  assimilate  the  Law  of  Ceylon  as  regards  postdated 
cheques  to  the  Law  of  England. 

The  appeal  fails  and  is  dismissed  with  costs. 

Wood  Renton,  J.^The  plaintiff-respondent  sued  the 
defendant-appellant  in  this  action  for  the  recovery  of  a  sum 
of  Rs.  4,000  on  a  cheque  for  that  amount  by  the  defendant- 
appellant  in  favour  of  one  Supramaniam  Chetty,  who  endors- 
ed it  in  his  favour.  The  appellant  denied  the  endorsement, 
alleged  want  of  consideration,  and  further  pleaded  that  the 
action  was  not  maintainable,  inasmuch  as  the  cheque  in 


20  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Kristnappa  question  was  postdated.     The  learned  District  .Judge  decided 

V.  ^       all   these   issues   in  favour  of  the  respondent.     The  only  one 

Oarpen      jjjjat  has  been  pressed  upon  us  in  appeal   is  that  the  action 

cannot  be  maintained  because  the  cheque  sued  on  was  post- 

Wood       dated.     The  facts  that  it  was  so  postdated  and  that  the  rea- 

Renton,  J. 

pondent  at  the  time  of  its  endorsement  knew  it  to  be  so  are 
not  denied  by  the  respondent. 

In  arguing  the  point  of  law  just  stated  on  the  appellant's 
behalf,  Mr.  H.  A.  Jayewardene  relied  on  §  64  of  the  Stamp 
Ordinance  of  1909  ('No.  22  of  1909),  which  provides  that  any 
person  who — 

"(«)  With  intent  to  defraud  the  Government  of 
duty,  draws,  makes,  or  issues  any  bill  of  exchange  or 
promissory  note  bearing  a  date  subsequent  to  that  on 
which  such  bill  or  note  is  actually  drawn  or  made ;  or 

"(Z/)  Knowing  that  such  bill  or  note  has  been  so 
postdated,  endorses,  transfers,  presents  for  acceptance  or 
payment,  or  accepts,  pays,  or  receives  payment  of  such 

bill  or  note,  or  in  any  manner  negotiates  the  same 

shall   be  punishable  with  a  fine  which  may  extend  to 
Rs.  1,000." 

Mr,  H.  A.  Jayewardene  contended  that  the  effect  of  this 
provision  was  not  merely  to  penalise  but  to  prohibit  post- 
dating of  cheques ;  and  consequently  that  a  cheque  so  post- 
dated was  illegal,  and  could  not  be  sued  upon  in  a  court 
of  law. 

To  this  argument  it  seems  to  me  that  there  are  several 
answers.  In  the  first  place,  I  do  not  think  that  §  64  of  Ordi- 
nance 22  of  1909  applies  to  cheques  at  all.  Cheques  are  not 
referred  to  in  the  section  ;  and  a  very  cursory  examination  of 
the  provisions  of  the  Ordinance  is  sufficient  to  show  that, 
while  a  cheque  is  itself  a  form  of  "bill  of  exchange"  frequent- 
ly included  in  the  latter  term,  there  are  provisions  which  are 
restricted  to  bills  of  exchange,  properly  so  called  and  distin- 
guished both  from  cheques  and  from  promissory  notes.    §  63, 


COtJRT     OF    APPEAL    CASES.  21 

for  example,  which  deals  with  bills  of  exchange   "drawn   in   Kristnappa 
sets   according   to  the  custom   of  merchants",  is  clearly  an  v.  ^ 

enactment  of  that  character.    Mr.  H.  .A..  Jayewardene  argued      Carpeu 

■^  ^  Chetty. 

in   connection  with  this  branch  of  his  argument  that  a  post- 


Renton,  J. 


dated  cheque  is  really  a  bill  of  exchange,  and  requires  to  be   „  Wood 
stamped   as   such.     The  authorities,  however,  do  not,  in  my 
opinion,  support  that  contention.    (See  Bull  v.  O^Sullivan  '  ; 
Gotty  V.  Fry  -  ;   Raiiicn  Clietty  v.  Muhamed  Ghaicsp  ^.) 

But  even  if  §  64  of  Ordinance  22  of  1909  includes 
cheques,  the  offence  which  it  creates  can  only  be  established 
by  affirmative  proof  that  the  cheque  was  postdated  "with 
intent  to  defraud".  In  the  present  case  any  such  intent  is 
negatived  by  the  evidence  and  by  the  findings  of  the  District 
Judge  ;  and  I  do  not  think  that  it  would  be  legitimate  for  a 
Court  to  infer  fraudulent  intention  from  the  mere  fact  that 
the  person  who  postdates  a  cheque  may  be  assumed  to  know 
that  by  so  doing  he  is  depriving  the  Government  of   revenue. 

The  last  answer  to  Mr.  H.  A.  Jayewardene's  argument, 
which  suggests  itself  to  me,  is  that,  even  if  §  64  applies  to 
cheques,  and  proof  of  express  intent  to  defraud  were  not 
necessary,  the  section  merely  penalises,  and  does  not  render 
illegal,  the  postdating  of  cheques.  The  law  applicable  to  this 
question  was  laid  down  by  the  Court  of  Appeal  in  England 
in  the  case  of  Me/l/s  v.  Shirley  L.  B.  *  as  follows  :— 

"Although  a  statute  contains  no  express  words  making 
"void  a  contract  which  it  prohibits,  yet  when  it  inflicts 
•'a  penalty  for  the  breach  of  the  prohibition  you  must  con- 
"sider  the  whole  Act  as  well  as  the  particular  enactment  in 
"question,  and  come  to  a  decision,  either  from  the  context  or 
"the  subject-matter,  whethei'  the  penalty  is  imposed  with  in- 
"tent  merely  to  deter  persons  from  entering  into  the  contract, 
"or  for  the  purposes  of  revenue,  or  whether  it  is  intended  that 
"the  contract  shall  not  be  entered  Ifto  so  as  to  be  valid 
"in  law." 

1    (1871)  L.  R.  6  Q.  B.  209.       S.  {1889)  I.  L.  R.  16  Cat.  432. 
2.  {1877)  2  Ex.  Div.  265.  4.  {18S5)  16  Q.  B.  D.  451. 


22  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Kristnappa  It  is  clear  from  this  passsage  that  the  question  with  which 

Chetty       ^^^  ^^^   j^^^,g   concerned   is   to   be  answered  according  to  the 

Carpen       circumstances  of  each  particular  case,  and  that  even  where 

'^   ^'      a  contract  is  expressly  prohibited  the  imposition  of  a  penalty 

Wood       does   not   necessarily   involve   the  consequence  that  the  con- 

'    '    tract  is  struck  with  such  illegality  that  it  cannot  form  a  good 

foundation  for  an  action.     .4  furtiori,   the  imposition  of  a 

penalty  will  not  necessarily  stamp  a  contract  with  illegality, 

where,   as   here,   the   Legislature  has  not  prohibited  the  act 

whiLih   it  has   penalised.     It  must  be   remembered  that  the 

English  statute  law  as  to   bills   of   exchange  is  in  force  in 

Ceylon,  and  that  under  that  law  a  cheque  is  not  invalid  by 

reason  only  of  the  fact  that  it  has  been  postdated.    In  view 

of  these  circumstances  I  am  unable  to  hold  that  the  effect  of 

§  64  of  Ordinance  22  of  1909  is  to  prevent  a  good  action  from 

being  brought  on  a  postdated  cheque. 

The  decision  of  Creasy,  C.  J.,  and  Stewart,  J.  in  Gliar- 
tcj-vd  21rivruitHe  BanJr  v.  Silva  tfc  Co.,  ^  'that  a  man  who 
receives  a  postdated  cheque  with  knowledge  that  it  is  post- 
dated shall  not  be  allowed  to  sue  on  it,  turned,  I  think,  on 
the  fact  that  that  was  then  the  law  in  England.  §  18  of 
the  Stamp  Ordinance  1861  (No.  11  of  1861)  was,  it  is  true, 
substantially  identical  with  §  64  of  Ordinance  22  of  1909, 
But  Creasy,  C.  J.,  and  Stewart,  J.,  would,  in  my  opinion, 
have  construed  the  former  section  differently  if  the  present 
English  Law  as  to  postdated  cheques  had  been  in  force  at  the 
time  of  their  decision. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant — V.  M.  S(( ruvanamidtu. 

Proctors  for  respondent — Bvveii  <(-  Bevcn. 


{1866)  Ram.  {18G3-6S)  p.  19!). 


CO  CRT    OP    APPEAL     CASES. 
ROBERT    r.    ABEYWARDENE. 
No.  10,990,  C.  R.,  Galle. 
Presrtit :  de  Sampayo,  J. 

27th  June,  1912. 

Fiiiei  ciiiiiiiiix.iv III — prohihUion  iif/uiiixt  ulipiiiifion  out  nf  the  fnmi/i/ — 
nil  ej'i  resx  ilpsignat'uin  of  peyHonto  he  heiiojiteil — iiiiiiiir — ailiiit'niii  of  inheri- 
t  II  nee. 

A  prohibition  against  .alienation  out  of  the  family  of  a  legatee  or 
donee  is  itself  sufficient  to  create  a  AA'i  cuniniissum  in  favour  of  the 
members  of  the  family, 

A  minor  cannot  adiate  an  inheritance,  and  i%  not  liable  to  be  sued 
for  tht  debts  of  the  ancestor. 

The  facts  appear  fully  in  the  judgment. 

('niirai/,  for  appellant. — The  clause  of  the  will  creates  a 
special  kind  of  ,/idri  aiinmissutn  known  to  the  Roman  Dutch 
Law  as  a  fidri  coiiiminsiiin  left  to  the  family.  In  such  a  case 
a  prohibition  against  alienation  out  of  the  family  is  sufficient. 
(See  Voct  36.  1.27 ;  2  Barge  pp.  112  &  113.)  The  words 
"should  not  sell,  etc.,  to  strangers  except  to  the  original  heirs" 
clearly  indicate   such  an  intention. 

A.  St.  V.  Jaycwardenc,  for  the  respondent. — The  clause 
does  not  designate  clearly  who  the  persons  to  be  benefited 
are.  The  Supreme  Court  has  always  insisted  on  a  clear 
designation  of  such  persons.  In  cases  of  doubt  it  is  the  rule 
of  the  law  to  declare  in  favour  of  a  fi-ee  inheritance,  and  the 
doubt  which  the  learned  Commissioner  felt  on  reading  the 
whole  will  clearly  justifies  his  view  of  its  construction. 

GoordAj  in  reply. 

de  Sampayo,  J. — The  plaintiff  sues  on  a  mortgage 
bond  dated  31st  May,  1910,  by  which  one  William  Jayesuriya 
mortgaged  to  plaintiff  a  Jth  share  of  a  certain  land  to 
secure  a  sum  of  Rs.  75  and  interest.  The  defendants  are 
widow  and  child  of   the  mortgagor.     The  main  question  for 


24  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Robert      decision  is  whether  the  mortgagor  was  absolutely  entitled  to 

.    "^'  ^^_    the  property   mortgaged   or   whether   he  had  it  subject  to  a 

dene.        fidei   coiiniiissinn.     The  entire  property  originally  belonged 

jg         to  his  parents,  who  by  their  last  will,    dated  7th  February, 

Sampayo,  J.  1873,  devised  it  to  their  children  of  whom  the  said  William 

Jayesuriya  whs  one.    The  will,  which  by  the  12th    clause 

gave  the  property   to  the   children,  contained  a  condition 

which   according   to   the   translation  filed  in  the  case  ran  as 

follows : — 

"They  (the  children)  should  not  sell  mortgage  or 
give  in  rent  for  a  term  of  more  than  two  years  at  a  time 

the  immoveable  property to  strangers  except  to 

the  original  heirs  nor  could  one  or  more  people  outside 
their  circle  be  granted  or  obtain  any  right." 

I  have  had  the  original  will  sent  for,  and  the  Interpreter 
Mudaliyar  of  this  Court  has  certified  to  the  correctness  of 
this  translation.  The  learned  Commissioner  has  held  that 
the  will  created  no  fide i  comniissum.  He  says  that  there  is  a 
clear  prohibition  against  alienation  out  of  the  family,  but 
there  is  no  indication  of  the  persons  to  whom  the  property  in 
the  event  of  alienaton  is  to  go  over.  Now,  a  prohibition 
against  alienation  out  of  the  family  of  a  legatee  or  donee  is 
itself  sufficient  to  create  a  fidei  commissum  in  favour  of  the 
members  of  the  family.  Illustrations  of  this  kind  of  fidei 
commissum  will  be  found  in  Voet  86.  1.  27  and  Burge 
pp.  lis  &  lis.  In  Jimph  V.  Mulder  ^  the  words  were :— "The 
"said  grounds  shall  never  be  sold  or  parted  with  in  favour  of 
"a  stranger,  but  shall  permanently  remain  among  legal  heirs," 
which  the  Privy  Council  construed  as  creating  a  fidei 
cdinmissum  conditio nale.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  words  in 
the  present"  will  have  the  same  effect,  with  this  difference, 
that  the  prohibition,  being  jiersonal  and  not  real,  extends 
only  to  the  immediate  devisee.  (See  S'ande  on  Froliihitium, 
pt.  3  cJi.  2.)  The  plaintiffs  in  .Josepjh  v.  Mulder  '  did  not 
succeed  only  because  their  action  was  held  to  be  premature,  as 
the  prohibition  was  against  a  sale  only  and  the  action  merely 

1.     (1903)  A.  a  190. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  25 


sought  a  declaration  that  the  mortgages  in  question  were  null      Robert 
and  void  though  the  property  had  not  been  brought  to  a  judicial    Abeywar- 
sale  or  even  a  mortgage  action  instituted  for  that  purpose.        '^<*°®- 
The  prohibition   in   this  case  is  against  a  mortgage  as  well ;         je 
and  as  the  defendants  would  not  be  able  hereafter  to  raise  Sampayo,  J. 
the  question  if  a  decree  for  realization  of  the  mortgage  by 
sale  of  the  property  were  entered,  the  defendants  have  right- 
ly raised  the  question  by  way  of  defence.    (See  also  Silva  v. 
PhiJijips  '.)     In  my  opinion  the  will  created  a  fidei  commis- 
suin,  and  the  mortgage  to  a  person  outside  the  family  or,  as 
the  will  puts  it,  "outside  the  circle",  is  invalid.     The  plain- 
tiff's action,  therefore,  cannot  be  sustained  so  far  as  it  seeks 
to  realize  the  mortgaged  property. 

There  is,  however,  the  money  claim,  which,  of  course, 
may  be  maintainable  against  a  proper  reiDresentative  of  the 
deceased  William  Jayesuriya.  The  2nd  defendant  is  a 
minor,  and  is  joined  as  a  defendant  on  the  footing  of  his 
being  an  heir;  but  a  minor  cannot  adiate  the  inheritance,  and 
is  not  liable  to  be  sued  for  the  debts  of  the  ancestor.  The 
1st  defendant  is  widow  of  the  deceased,  and  there  is  evidence 
that  she  intermeddled  with  the  property  of  the  deceased's 
estate  and  so  made  herself  an  executrix  de  son  tort.  Judg- 
ment may  therefore  go  against  her  for  the  debt  due  by  the 
deceased.  I  set  aside  the  decree  in  this  case,  and  dismiss  the 
action  as  against  the  2nd  defendant,  but  judgment  will  be 
entered  against  the  1st  defendant  for  the  money  as  claimed, 
to  be  realized  out  of  the  property  of  the  deceased  in  her  hands 
other  than  those  derived  by  him  under  the  will  of  his  parents. 

As  the  main  question  has  been  as  to  the  validity  of  the 
mortgage,  the  plaintiff  will  pay  the  defendant's  costs  in  both 
Courts. 

Set  aside. 
Proctor  for  appellant — E.  A.   Wijesooriya. 
Proctor  for  respondents — A.  D.  Jayesundere. 
1.     (1908)  11  N.  L.  R.  164, 


COURT    OF    APPEAL     CASES. 

PERERA    V.    PESONAHAMT   et  al. 

No.  303,  C.  R.,  Gampola. 

PiYsciif:  de  Sampayo,  J. 

4th  Julj,  1912. 

Court  iif  Requi'sts — iirtion  hi/  iii<i>'ff/iii;u>;sfi)r  mncellation  of  iiiorti/nge. 
!)0)iii — whether  mortiiar/ee  hound  to  claim,  ill  reconreiition  money  due. — siih- 
seipient  luiion  hij  mortgadee. — whether  harred — res  jvdiaitir — §§  S07  and 
817,  Ciril  Procedure  Code. 

In  an  action  by  a  mortgagor  to  have  a  mortgage  bond  cancelled  and 
discharged  the  mortgagee  is  not  bound  to  claim  in  reconvention  the 
money  due  on  the  bond,  and  a  subsequent  action  on  the  bond  is  not 
barred  by  §  207  or  §  817  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

A  defendant  in  an  action  is  not  bound  to  claim  in  reconvention  on  a 
distinct  and  separate  cause  of  action. 

An  action  for  the  cancellation  of  a  bond  can  hardly  be  regarded  as 
an  action  for  a  breach  of  contract  vrithin  the  meaning  of  §  817  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code. 

This  was  an  action  for  the  recovery  of  money  due  on  a 
mortgage  bond.  The  defendants  contended  that  the  action 
was  barred  under  §§  207  and  817  of  the  Civil  Procedure 
Code,  inasmuch  as  the  plaintiff  had  failed  to  claim  in  recon- 
vention the  amount  due  on  the  bond,  in  a  previous  action 
instituted  against  him  for  the  cancellation  and  discharge 
of  the  said  bond.  The  previous  action  was  based  on  the 
footing  that  the  money  due  on  the  bond  had  been  paid, 
but  the  plaintifiE  successfully  resisted  the  plea  of  payment. 
The  Commissioner  of  Requests  overruled  the  defemlant's 
contention  and  entered  judgment  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff. 
The  defendants  appealed. 

di'  Zoy^a  (with  A.  St.  V.  Jayeiuardene)  for  the  appel- 
lant.— The  plaintiff  was  bound  to  claim  in  reconvention  in  the 
previous  action  the  amount  due  on  the  bond  [dc  Sainpayo,  J- 
He  had  invested  his  money.  Why  should  his  hands  be 
forced  ?]  §  817  of  the  Code  provides  (^hat  he  must  do  so. 
[de  Sampayo,  J.  That  section  applies  to  actions  founded  upon 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  27 


a  breach  of  contract.]     The  previous  action  was  in  respect  of     Perera 
a  breach  of  contract.     We  alleged  that  although  the  monej'  Pesonaiiamy 
due   had   been  paid  the  respondent  had  failed  to  cancel  and       <"''  "^■ 
discharge  the  bond.  de 

Sampayo,  J. 

Hayley  for  the  respondents, — The  previous  action  was 
not  founded  on  a  breach  of  contract.  (See  DeutscJte  National 
Batik  V.  Paul  '.) 

de  Sampayo,  J. — The  plaintijEE  brings  this  action 
against  the  defendants  on  a  mortgage  bond.  The  principal 
question  is  whether  the  defendants'  plea  of  re.s  Judicata 
is  well  founded.  It  appears  that  in  a  previous  action 
the  defendants  as  mortgagors  sought  to  have  the  mortgage 
bond  cancelled  and  discharged  on  the  ground  that  the 
money  due  on  the  bond  hud  been  paid.  The  defendant 
— the  plaintifE  in  this  action — took  issue  on  the  allegation 
of  payment  and  succeeded  in  satisfying  the  Court  that  the 
money  h&d  not  been  paid,  with  the  result  that  the  action 
was  dismissed.  It  is  contended  that  the  plaintiff  should, 
in  the  previous  action,  have  claimed  in  reconvention  the 
money  due  on  the  bond,  and  reference  is  made  to  §§  207  and 
817  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  I  do  not  think  that  either 
of  those  sections  applies  to  this  matter,  and  no  decision  has 
been  cited  to  me  in  support  of  the  contention.  The  defend- 
ant in  an  action  is  not  bound  to  make  a  claim  in  reconven- 
tion on  a  distinct  and  separate  cause  of  action.  Section  207 
only  applies  to  the  case  of  a  plaintiff  who  neglects  to  set 
up  all  the  claims  he  may  be  entitled  to  on  the  same  cause  of 
action  ;  and  I  think  that  the  plaintiff  in  this  action  is  not 
precluded  by  that  section  from  realizing  his  mortgage.  As 
regards  §  817  of  the  Procedure  Code,  it  seems  to  me  that  the 
previous  action  could  hardly  be  regarded  as  an  action  for  a 
breach  of  contract  within  the  meaning  of  that  section. 
Some  guidance  on  this  point  may  be  obtained  from  the 
case  of  Deatschv  Natiitnal  Bank  v.  Paul  ^,  which  was 
cited    to    me  by    Mr.    Hayley   for   the^  respondent.     That 

1.     {1898)  1  Oh.  283. 


28  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

was  a  case  under  Order  xi.,  rale  1  (e)  of  the  English  Rules 
and  Orders,  by  which  provision  is  made  for  service  out  of 
the  jurisdiction  in  actions  "founded  on  any  breach  of  con- 
tract", and  it  was  held  that  an  action  by  a  mortgagee  for  fore- 
closure of  the  mortgage  and  for  all  necessary  accounts  and 
inquiries  was  not  an  action  "founded  on  a  breach  of  con- 
tract" within  the  meaning  of  the  rule.  I  therefore  think 
that  the  judgment  of  the  learned  Commissioner  deciding 
against  the  defendants  on  the  issue  of  res  judicata  is  right. 
The  appeal  is  dismissed  with  costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  appellant — T.  B.  PanabokJce. 
Proctors  for  respondents — A.  V.   VanLangenberg, 

COSTA    ('.    LIVERA. 

No.  18,621,  C.  R.,  Negombo. 

Preserd :  de  Sampayo,  J. 

29th  July,  1912. 

Sen-'itiiile — right  of  way — suhstituUon  of  ne.w  route  hij  agreement— right 
to  reivrt  to  old  route — e.rtingiii.ified  hg  abandonment — eridence  of  aiandmt- 
meiit — whether  henejit  of  pos.iesHion  of  old  route  attache/:  to  sv.hstitvted  way— 
action  in  respect  of  old  way- — -if  Court  finds  it  cannot  ie  maintaimd— 
whether  it  should  he  dismissed. 

If  a  person  wlio  is  entitled  to  a  right  of  way  finally  and  definitely 
agrees  to  accept  a  new  route  in  lieu  of  the  old  route  such  permanent 
change  would  bind  him  to  the  extent  of  disentitling  him  to  use  the  oW 
route  again  except  by  a  fresh  agreement. 

A  servitude  is  extinguished  by  abandonment  or  release.  Abandon- 
ment or  release  is  a  question  of  fact  in  each  cnse.  The  mere  fact  of  a 
new  line  of  way  being  adopted  in  lieu  of  the  old  route  is  not  in  itself 
proof  of  abandonment  of  the  servitude  along  the  old  way.  The  length 
of  time  during  which  the  new  route  has  been  used  instead  of  the  old  one 
would  be  a  relevant  fact  for  consideration  in  connection  with  the  ques- 
tion  of   abandonment.    But  if  the  substitution   was  made  under  suoli 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  29 

circumstances  that   the   iaferenoe   of   abandonment  can  be  drawn   the         Costa 
cjuestiou  of  time  will  not  be  of  much  consequence. 


Where  a  right  of  way  has  been  acquired  by  prescription  and  a  new 
route  has  been  substituted  by  agreement  for  the  old  route,  the  benefit  of 
the  old  possession  would  attach  to  the  new  route  and  a  prescriptive  right 
can  be  exercised  over  the  new  route. 

Where  both  the  old  way  and  the  substituted  way  are  obstructed  and 
an  action  is  broug-ht  in  respect  of  the  old  way  and  the  Court  finds  that  the 
right  to  use  the  same  can  no  longer  be  maintained,  the  action  should  not 
be  dismissed,  but  the  plaintiff  should  be  given  an  opportunity  of  amend- 
ing his  pleadings  and  claiming  a  declaration  in  respect  of  the  substi- 
tuted way. 

The  appellant  was  entitled,  presumably  by  right  of  pre- 
Bci-iptive  possession,   to  a  right   of  way  over  the  respondent's 

land  along  a  line  marked  d d  in  the  plan  filed  in  the 

ease.  About  4  years  previovis  to  the  institution  of  this  action 
the   parties   had  substituted  by  mutual  consent  a  new  route, 

marked   a a   in   the   plan,  for  the   old   route.     The 

appellant,  alleging  that  the  use  of  the  old  way  was  obstructed 
by  the  respondent,  brought  the  present  action  for  a  declara- 
tion that  he  be  entitled  to  use  the  same.  According  to  the 
plan  the  point  of  obstruction  complained  of  was  at  the  junc- 
tion of  the  two  routes,  and  it  appeared  that  both  the  old  way 
and  the  substituted  way  were  thereby  obstructed.  At  the 
trial  counsel  for  the  respondent  urged  that  the  action  could 
not  be  maintained  in  respect  of  the  old  way  as  the  right  to 
use  the  same  had  been  extinguished  by  abandonment.  The 
learned  Commissioner  of  Requests  (John  Scott,  Esq.)  upheld 
his  contention  and  dismissed  the  plaintiff's  action. 

The  plaintiff  appealed. 

^4.  St.  V.  Jayeivardi'iie  for  the  appellant. — The  case  of 
Fernando  v.  Jleiidis  ^,  on  which  the  judgment  of  the  Com- 
missioner of  Requests  is  based,  does  not  apply,  as  in  the 
circumstances  of  that  case  the  owner  of  the  dominant 
tenement  definitely  agreed  to  abandon  the  same.  In  the 
present  'case  a  new  route  has  been  substituted  in  lieu  of 

1.    {1911)  U  N.  L.  R.  101. 


Livcra. 


30 


Costa. 

V. 

Livera. 


Sampayo,  J. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

the  old  one,  and  immediately  the  new  route  was  obstructed  a 
right  to  resume  the  use  of  the  old  route  accrued  to  the 
appellant.  (See  Pai/iif  v.Shedclen  \) 

E.  G.  P.  Jaijetili'ke  for  the  defendant-respondent.— The 
case  of  Fernando  v.  Mendis  "  is  indistinguishable.  The  facts 
show  that  the  old  route  had  not  been  used  for  over  4  years ; 
it  is  submitted  that  this  is  a  clear  indication  of  abandon- 
ment. The  case  of  Payne  v.  Shedden  '  is  no  authority  for 
the  proposition  that  the  owner  of  the  dominant  tenement 
may  revert  to  the  use  of  the  old  route  in  case  the  substituted 
way  is  obstructed.  The  appellant  has  misconceived  his 
remedy  in  this  case.  He  should  have  instituted  an  action  in 
respect  of  the  substituted  way.  [r/c  Sampayo,  J.  What  right 
would  he  have  to  do  so  ?]  It  is  submitted  that  where,  as 
presumably  in  this  case,  the  original  way  has  been  acquired 
by  prescription  the  benefit  of  the  old  possession  would  attach 
to  the  new  route,  and  the  appellant  can  therefore  exercise  a 
prescriptive  right  over  the  new  route.  The  case  of  Paynr  v. 
Sheddrn  '  and  Voet  8.  S.  8.  support  this  view. 

A.  Sf.  r.  Jayeu'((rdc7ir  in  reply. 


de  Sampayo,  J. — The  plaintiff  brings  this  action  for 
obstruction  of  a  right  of  way  which  he  claimed  over  the 
defendant's  land.     The  way  claimed  is  along  the  line  marked 

d d   in  the  plan  filed    in  the    case.    That  plaintiff 

has  a  right  of  way  is  not  denied ;  but  the  defendant 
disputes    the   plaintiff's    present    claim    to    use    the  route 

d d   for   the     reason    that    the    parties    had  by 

mutual  consent  substituted  a  new  route,  marked  a a 

in  the  plan,  for  the  old  route  d d.  The  con- 
tention for  the  defendant  is  that  the  plaintiff  has  lost  the 

servitude  of  way  over  the  line  d d  by  abandonment 

or  release.  That  a  servitude  is  extinguished  by  abandon- 
ment is  of  course  indisputable.  In  Ferna)ido  v.  Mendis  ^ 
which  is  relied  on,  the  servitude  was  a  right   to  draw  water 

1.    1  M.  &  Hob.  382.        2.     {1911)  14  N.  L.  B.  101. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  GASES.  31 

from   a   particular   well ;   but  that   decision  is  no  authority       Costa 
for   the  present  contention.     Abandonment   or  releape  is  a       Livera. 
question   of  fact  in   each   case  ;  and  the  point  in  this  case  is 
whether  the  mere  fact  of  a  new  line  of  way  being  adopted  in   Sampayo,  J. 
lieu  of  the  old  line  is  proof  of  abandonment  of  the  servitude 
of  way  over  the  defendant's  land  along  the  old   line.     With- 
out more  evidence  I  cannot  say  it  is.     There  was  no  evidence 
gone  into  at  the  trial  ;  but  the  Court  decided  the  case  more  or 
less   as   an   abstract  question    of  law  on  the  mere  admission 

"that  plaintiff  by  agreement  used  the  line  a a  instead 

"of   d d".     As   regards   the   law,   as  I  have  said,  the 

decision  I  have  above  referred  to  does  not  quite  apply. 
There  is  not  much  direct  authority  that  I  can  discover  appli- 
cable to  the  point.  Vorf.  8.  3.  8.  says  that  the  owner  of  the 
servient  tenement  may  by  election  or  agreement  alter  the 
route,  provided  the  change  does  not  prejudice  the  owner  of 
the  dominant  tenement.  See  also  Maatidorjj's  Inst.  183. 
But  it  is  not  clear  whether  the  owner  of  the  dominant  tene- 
ment may  revert  to  the  use  of  the  old  route  or  whethtr 
the  servitude  must  in  the  case  of  a  change  be  confined  to  the 
new  route.  1  should  say  that,  if  the  owner  of  the  dominant 
tenement  has  finally  and  definitely  agreed  to  the  new  route 
in  lieu  of  the  old  route,  such  permanent  change  would  bind 
him  to  the  extent  of  disentitling  him  to  use  the  old  route 
again  except  by  a  fresh  agreement.  The  matter  may  be 
complicated  with  us  by  reason  of  such  agreements  affecting 
land  being  required  to  be  in  writing  notarially  attested,  and 
possibly  it  was  the  perception  of  this  difficulty  that  induced 
the  idaintiff  to  claim  the  old  route  in  this  case.  Mr.  Jaye- 
tileke,  for  the  defendant,  made  the  acute  suggestion  that 
where,  as  presumably  in  this  case,  the  servitude  was  acquired 
by  prescription,  the  benefit  of  the  old  possession  would  attach 
to  the  new  route,  and  he  argued  that  the  plaintiff  could  now 
exercise  his  prescriptive  right  over  the  new  route.  I  think 
this  argument  is  sound,  because  after  all  the  essence  of  the 
servitude  is  the  right  of  way  over  the  servient  tenement  and 
the  particular  route  affects  only  the  manner  of  its  exercise. 
"What  is  prescribed  for  by  long  user  is  not   the  ground   over 


32 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


V. 

Li  vera. 


Costa        which  the  way  lies  but  the   incorporeal  right   of  servitude. 
This  is.not  inconsistent  with,  but  is  in  a  sense  supported  by, 
the   decision   in  Piiyiw   v.  Shedden  i,  which   was  cited  by 
c       ^^      J  Mr.  A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene  for  the  plaintiff.   There  the  action 

bampayo,   J.  •'  ' 

was  for  trespass  qiiare  dausum  fregit,  and  the  defendant 
justified  by  pleading  a  right  of  way  over  the  plaintiff's  land 
by  user  for  20  years.  It  appeared  that  the  line  of  the  way 
had  been  a  good  deal  varied  during  the  20  years,  and  at 
certain  periods  wholly  suspended,  by  agreement  between  the 
parties  ;  and  it  was  contended  that  a  user  with  such  variations 
and  suspensions  did  not  support  the  existence  of  a  servitude 
or  easement  at  all.  The  Court  held  first  that  a  suspension  of 
enjoyment  by  agreement  would  not  extinguish  the  right, 
and  secondly  that  the  user  of  a  substituted  line  would  be  an 
exercise  of  the  right  and  evidence  of  its  continued  enjoy- 
ment ;  that  is  to  say,  that  the  right  of  easement  by  whatever 
route  remained  unextinguished,  and  was  a  good  answer  to 
the  action  for  trespass.  That  case  did  not  decide,  and  was 
not  intended  to  decide,  as  to  what  route  the  defendant  was 
entitled  or  was  bound  to  use.  In  my  opinion  this  case  can- 
not be  decided  on  a  mere  abstract  question  of  law,  but  can 
only   be   determined  on  evidence.     If  the  plaintiff  definitely 

abandoned   the   route   d d,  I    think    that  he    must 

now  be  restricted  to  the  new  route  a a.     For  the  reasons 

I  have  indicated  the  Ordinance  7  of  1840  will  not  be  in  the 
way   of   such   restriction,  even   if   the    user  of  the  new  line 

a a  has  not  been  long  enough  to  give  plaintiff  anew 

right  by  prescription.  The  length  of  time  during  which  the 
new  route  has  been  used  instead  of  the  old  one  would  how- 
ever be  a  relevant  fact  for  consideration  in  connection  with 
the  question  of  abandonment.  But  if  the  substitution  was 
made  under  such  circumstances  that  the  inference  of 
abandonment  can  be  drawn,  the  question  of  time  will  not  be 
of  much  consequence:  Regiiia  v.  Ghorlei/'^.  If  upon  the 
evidence  the  Court  finds   that    the  right  to    use    the  route 

d d  can  no  longer  be  maintained,  but  that  the  plain- 

tiff''s  right  is  to  use  the  route  a a,  it  does  not  follow 

1,     1  M.  &  Rob.  382.         2.     12  Q.  B,  515, 


COURT  OF  APPE4L  CASES.  33 

that  the  plainiiff'saction  must  necessafily  be  diBinissed.  The       Coata 
point   of   obstruction   complained   of  is  at  the  junction  of  the      Livera. 
two  routes,  and  the  phiintiff  has  a  cause  of  action  whichever 
line  of  way  he  may  ultimately  be  found  entitled  to  use.     It  is  Sampayo,  J. 
true  that  in  the  plaint  he  asserted  his  right  to   use   the  rovite 

il d,  but  it  would  be  convenient  and  save  both  parties 

further  expense  if  the  dispute  be  determined  once  for  all  in 
this  action.  T'he  action  may  therefore  proceed  upon  the 
footing  that  the  defendant  is  sued  for  an  infringement  of  the 
plaintiff's  right  of  servitude  by  putting  up. an  obstruction  at 
the  point  indicated  in  the  plan,  whether  the  route  up  to   the 

point  of  obstruction  is  along  the  lined d  or  along  the 

line  a a.     This  may  be  done  after  amendment  of  the 

pleadings,  if  necessary,  and  upon  proper  issues  to  be  framed, 
and  subject  to  such  order  as  to  costs  consequent  on  such 
amendment  as  the  court  may  think  fit  to  make. 

The  judgment  appealed  against  is  set  aside  and  the  case 

is  sent  back  to  be  proceeded  with   as   above   indicated.  The 

costs  of  the  last  trial  and  of  this  appeal  will  abide  the  final 
result. 

Set  aside  and  sent  back. 
Proctors  for  appellant — dc  Silva  and  Perera. 
Proctors  for  respondeat — di'  Zoi/m  and  Perera. 


U  COURT    OF    APPEAL     CASES. 

JATASHAMT    et    al.    v.     ABEYSURITA. 
No.  1,178,  U.  C,  Tangalle. 
Prrsriif  ■  Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  de  Sampayo,  J. 

9th  August,  1912. 

Deed   of  rji/t  from  father- — iii  faantr  of  adulterine  bastard — whether 
valid. 

Adulterine  bastards  can  take  under  a  g'ift  or  bequest  from  the  father. 

Rahot  r.  Silra  '  and  Wicltremeninjalte  c.  Perera  "  followed. 

This  is  an  iippeal  from  a  judgment  of  the  District  Judge 
of  Tangalle  (Allan  Beven,  Esq.).  The  facts  appear  in  the 
judgment  of  de  Sampayo,  J. 

Bawa,  K.  C.  (with  Canekeratne)  for  the  the  appellant,— 
A  gift  to  a  bastard  is  prohibited  under  the  Roman-Dutch 
Law.  [de  Sam2oayo,J.  The  judgment  of  the  Privy  Council 
in  Rahot  v.  cle  Silva  ^  is  against  you  on  this  point.]  It  does 
not  follow  from  that  judgment  that  the  prohibition  of  the 
Roman-Dutch  Law  is  abolished. 

Adulterine  children  do  not  become  legitimate  by  the 
subsequent  marriage  of  the  parents.  The  intention  of  the 
legislature  was  to  place  a  heavy  sanction  on  adultery  and  to 
deter  people  from  living  in  adultery  out  of  some  feeling  for 
the  offspring. 

H.  A.  JaycuMtfclene  (with  Samefewickrame)  for  the 
respondents. — Under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  the  prohibition 
extended  both  to  the  property  of  the  father  and  the  mother. 
It  has  been  held  in  the  case  of  Wickirmenayake  v.  Perera'' 
that  an  adulterine  bastard  had  the  right  to  succeed  to  the 
mother  by  inheritance.  That  principle  would  apply  to  this 
case.     If  a  person  can  inherit,  he  can  take  by  donation. 

Bawa,  K.  C,  in  reply — The  case  cited  does  not  apply. 
It  is  a  case  of  inheritance  from  the  mother,  and  comes  under 

I.  (1909)  12  N.  L.  n.  81.     2.  {1908)  11  N.  L.  E.171. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  35 


an  express  legal  enactment  (see  §  37  of  Ordinance  No.  15  of   Jayashamy 
1876).     Ide  Sampayo,  J.     That  case  was  not  decided  under  ^^  ' 

the  Ordinance,  as  the  marriage  was  before  the  Ordinance.]       Abeysuriya. 

Lascelles, 
c.  a.  V.  C.J. 

& 
de 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — I  entirely  concur  in  the  judgment  of   ""•P*y°'  J- 

my  brother  Sampayo,  which  I  have  had  the  opportunity 
of  reading.  The  present  case  is  in  principle  covered  by 
authority. 

In  Wickirmeiiayahfi  et  al.  i'.  Peirra  '  this  Court  held 
that  the  rule  of  Roman-Dutch  Law  which  prohibited  adulter- 
ine bastards  from  inheriting  from  their  mother  was  the 
logical  result  of  the  fact  that,  under  Roman-Dutch  Law,  the 
union  between  their  parents  was  prohibited  and  was  a 
punishable  offence.  Now  that  such  unions  are  no  longer 
prohibited  or  punishable,  the  Court  held  that  the  incapacity 
t  inherit  no  longer  attaches  to  the  offspring.  The  principle 
of  this  decision  is  applicable  to  the  present  case,  for  it  is  in- 
conceivable that  the  status  of  adulterine  bastards  should  be 
such  that  they  can  lawfully  succeed  ah  intestato,  but  that 
when  it  comes,  to  taking  by  gift  from  a  parent  the  incapacity 
imposed  by  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  is  still  in  force.  But  I 
understand  that  in  Rahot  et  al.  v.  de  Silva  ^  the  Privy 
Council  took  the  view  that  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  with 
regard  to  the  consequences  of  adultery  has  in  effect  been 
repealed  by  the  legislation  which  is  now  embodied  in  the 
Marriage  Registration  Ordinance  No.  19  of  1907. 

I  agree  that  the  appeal  should  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

de  Sampayo,  J. — The  2nd,  3rd,  and  4th  plaintiffs  are 
the  children  of  the  1st  plaintiff,  born  to  her  out  of  an  adul- 
terous connection  with  one  Suwaris  de  Silva  now  deceased. 


/.  {1908)  U  N.  L,  R.  71.     2.  (1909)  12  N.  L.  R.  81. 


36  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Jayashamy    The  defendant  is  the  administrator  of  the  estate  of  Suwaris 

'"'"'■        de    Silva,   and    this   action,  is   brought   to  recover  a  sum  of 

Abeysuriya.  Es.  1 ,5C0  gifted  by  Suwaris  de  Silva  to  the  2nd,  3rd,  and  4th 

je         plaintiffs  to  be  paid  out  of  his  estate  after  his  death.    The 

Sampayo,  J.  defence  is  that,  as  the  children  are  adulterine  bastards,  the 
gift  is  invalid  under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law,  which  it  is 
argued  is  still  in  operation  in  Ceylon  on  this  point.  The 
well  known  decisions  on  the  question  of  gifts  to  persons  who 
have  lived  in  adultery  and  to  the  children  of  such  unions 
were  cited  to  us.  The  effect  of  these  decisions  is  to  set  at 
rest  the  question  as  regards  the  validity  of  a  marringe 
between  persons  who  have  lived  in  adultery  and  of  a  gift 
between  such  persons  under  the  law  now  prevailing  in 
Ceylon.  I  need  only  refer  to  the  Privy  Council  decision  in 
Rabat  v.  Silva  ^.  But  it  is  argued  that  the  children  of  such 
unions  are  still  under  the  disability  imposed  by  the  Roman- 
Dutch  Law.  This  would  be  a  curious  result,  if  well  fonnded, 
because  it  would  be  to  punish,  as  it  were,  victims  of  persons 
whose  misconduct  the  law  condones.  In  my  opinon  the  law 
is  not  so  unreasonable.  All  the  disabilities  in  question  under 
the  Roman-I'utch  Law,  including  those  of  adulterine  bas- 
tards, are  a  consequence  of  the  policy  which  regarded  adul- 
tery as  a  crime  and  marrifige  between  adulterous  persons  as 
invalid,  and  as  that  policy  is  found  no  longer  to  existin  Ceylon, 
all  the  consequences  thereof  have  also  disappeared  with 
it.  This,  I  think,  is  the  ti'ue  significance  of  the  decision  of  the 
Privy  Council.  This  ceitainly  was  the  view  taken  by  this 
Court  in  Wickremcfiayahe  v.Perera  \  which,  I  think,  covers 
the  point  now  raised.  Bnt  it  is  contended  that  that  decision 
does  not  apply,  because  there  the  question  was  as  to  the  right 
of  the  children  to  succeed  to  the  mother  by  inheritance. 
The  ratio  decidendi  of  that  case,  however,  is  much  wider 
than  contended  for,  and  the  decision,  in  which  I  venture  to 
say  I  entirely  concur,  is  an  authority  for  the  proposition  that 
f^dulterine   bastards    can   now   take   imder  a  gift  or  bequest 


1.     {1909)  12  N.  L,  R.  81.      2.     {1908)  11  N.  L.  R,  171. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  37 

from  the  father.  I  think  the  judgment  of  the  District  Judge 
in  this  case  is  quite  right,  and  I  would  dismiss  the  appeal 
with  costs. 

Ajjpfcd  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant — D.  E.  Wijesuriya. 

Proctor  for  respondents —  V.  S.    Wickramanayake. 


DHARMASENA    v.    SUDUMAMA    et  al. 
No.  15,155,  C.  R.,  Chilaw. 
Present :  Lascelles,  C.  J. 

5th  September,  1912. 

Dcc'iitonj  ontJi  —  dufif  of  officer  tidmhihterlng  oath — failure  to  tahe  anil 
record  eridi'/ice  c'o/iteiii/iomneoii-sly—fitol  irrrgulurity- — Ordinancf  9  of 
1S05  §  9  sub-.iec.  S. 

The  failure  on  the  part  of  the  officer  administering  an  oath  to  take 
and  record  contemporaneously  the  evidence  of  the  persons  sworn  er 
affirmed  is  an  irregularity  which  is  fatal  to  the  proceedings. 

In  this  action  the  plaintiff  sued  the  defendants  for  re- 
covery of  damages  consequent  on  the  destruction  by  the 
defendants  and  the  appropriation  of  the  materials  of  a  wire 
fence  erect<-d  by  the  plaintiff.  The  defendants,  among  other 
averments  denied  that  plaintiff  was  the  owner  of  the  fence. 
At  the  trial  on  the  3i'd  July,  1912,  the  plaintiff  offered  to  be 
bound  by  the  following  oath  to  be  taken  by  the  4th  defend- 
ant before  the  altar  of  the  Church  at  Bandirrippuwa,  viz.:  that 
the  fence  in  question  did  not  belong  to  the  plaintiff,  and  he 
consented  to  have  his  action  dismissed  if  this  oath  was  duly 
taken.  The  y  ourt  Interpreter  was  the  officer  deputed  by  the 
Commissioner  to  administer  the  oath.  He  failed  to  take  a 
record  of  the  evidence  of  the  person  making  the  oath  at  the 
time,  but  on  the  5th  July  he  was  examined  in  Court  and 
stated  as  follows  : — "I  am  Interpreter  of  the  C.  R.,  Marawila, 
'  and  Chilaw.     I  administered  the  oath  on  the  parties  in  this 


38  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Dharmasena  "case.     The  4th  defendant,  M.  Aratchigey  Jusey,  swore  that 
Sudumama    "when  he  pulled  out  the  28  fathoms  barbed  wire  that  fence  did 
et  ah        "not  belong  to  the  plaintifE.     He  took  oath  at  Bandirrippuwa 
"Church".     The  Commissioner  of   Requests  thereupon  dis- 
missed plaintiflE's  action  with  costs.     The  plaintiff  appealed. 

R.  L.  Pereira  for  the  plaintiff-appellant. — Section  9 
sub-section  2  of  Ordinance  9  of  ]895  makes  it  imperative  that 
an  officer  deputed  to  ad  minibter  the  oath  by  any  Court  should 
take  a  record  in  writing  of  the  very  words  sworn  to  by  the 
party  taking  the  oath.  I'his  was  not  done  in  this  case,  but 
the  officer  was  only  examined  in  Court  as  to  what  transpired 
at  the  taking  of  the  oath.  This  is  not  a  sufficient  compli- 
ance with  the  requirements  of  the  Ordinance. 

Samarawickrenie  for  the  defendants-respondents. — It  is 
not  absolutely  necessary  for  the  officer  administering  the 
oath  to  take  a  note  of  the  very  words  of  the  oath  taken  at 
the  time.  It  has  been  held  by  the  Full  Court  in  the  case  of 
Muhamadu  v.  Kadiravel  Kangany  '  that  the  report  of  the 
officer  deputed  to  administer  the  oath,  stating  that  the  oath 
was  duly  administered  in  terms  of  the  order  of  the  Couit, 
was  a  sufficient  compliance  with  the  requirements  of  the 
Ordinance.  It  was  held  not  to  be  necessary  to  give  the  very 
words  of  the  oath. 

R.  L.  Pereira  in  reply. — This  case  is  not  on  all  fours 
with  the  case  just  referred  to.  There  it  was  held  that  the 
report  of  the  officer  was  evidence  in  writing  taken  at  the 
time  indicative  of  the  oath  having  been  duly  taken.  Here 
the  officer  being  examined  at  a  later  date  is  speaking  from 
memory  of  what  transpired.  Even  in  the  Full  Court  case 
referred  to,  Wood  Renton,  J.,  dissented  and  stated  that  it 
was  imperative  and  obligatory  on  the  part  of  the  officer  to 
record  the  very  words  of  the  oath  taken. 

1,     {1908)  11  N.  L.  R.  278, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  39 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  is  a  case  in  which  the  claim  in  Dharmasena 
the  action  was  for  damages  for  injury  to  a  fence.    The  entry  gndumama 
in  the  journal  under  date  the  3rd  JuJy  is  as  follows  : — "Case        ''*  '*'■ 
"settled — 4th    defendant   to  swear  that  the  portion  of  fence    Lascelles, 
"28   fathoms  referred  to  did  not  belong  to   the  plaintiff  at        C.  J. 
"time  of  removal.     To  take  oath  at  Bandirrippuwa  Church 
"tomorrow  at  5-30  p.  m."     It  appears  that  on  the  following 
(lay,  that  is  on  the  4th,  the  oath  was  taken  by  the  4th  defend- 
ant ;  and  on  the  5th,  the  next  day,  the  interpreter  appeared 
in  Court  and  was  examined  on  oath  e.r  parte ;  and  he  deposed 
that  he  administered  the  oath  to  the  parties  in  this  case,  and 
that   the   4th    defendant   had  sworn  that,  when  he  pulled  up 
the  28  fathoms  of  barbed  wire,  the  fence  did  not  belong  to 
the  plaintiff ;   and  he  also  deposed  that  he,  that  is  the  4th 
defendant,  took  the  oath  at  Bandirrippuwa  Church. 

The  substantial  objection  to  the  procedure  is  that  sub- 
section (2)  of  section  y  of  the  Oaths  Ordinance  1895  has  not 
been  complied  with.  The  section,  dealing  with  decisory 
oaths,  provides  that  the  Court  may  authorise  any  person  to 
administer  the  oath  and  to  take  and  record  in  writing  the 
evidence  of  the  person  to  be  sworn  or  affirmed  and  return  it 
to  the  Court.  Now,  there  is  no  doubt  but  that  in  this  case 
the  procedure  prescribed  by  the  section  has  not  been  com- 
plied with  ;  and  the  only  question  that  I  have  to  consider  is 
whether  the  failure  of  the  interpreter  to  take  and  record  the 
evidence  of  the  persons  sworn  or  affirmed  is  a  fatal  irregula- 
rity. In  my  opinion  the  irregularity  is  fatal  to  the  proceed- 
ings. The  case  here  is  a  much  stronger  one  than  the  case  of 
Miiliamachi  v.  Kafiiravcl  Kangamj  \  because  there  was  no 
contemporaneous  report  of  the  evidence  made  at  all.  All 
that  happened  was  that  the  interpreter  appeared  in  Court 
the  day  after  he  had  administered  the  oath  and  recorded  the 
substance  of  the  evidence  in  a  very  perfunctory  manner.  I 
think  it  would  be  straining  the  language  of  the  Ordinance 
unduly  to  allow  this  procedure  as  a  compliance  with  the  Ordi- 
nance.    The  objection  of  the  procedure  is  to  have  a  distinct, 

1.     {190S)  11  N.  L.  B.  278. 


-40  COtTRT    OF  '  APPEAL    CASES. 

Dharmasena  complete,  and  intelligiliie  record  of  the  evidence  given  under 
Sudumama   tlie  Ordinance.     If  the  person  charged  to  administer  the  oath 
''''  '^^-       is  allowed  at  a  later  stage,  to  appear  in  the  <  ourt  and  give  evi- 
Lascelles,    dence  c.r  2]arte  from  his  recollection  of   what  was  said  on 
^■•'-       oath,  it  is  obvious  that  the  intention   of  the  Ordinance  will 
not   have   been   carried   out.     The   loose   way  in  which  the 
statement  on  oath  has  been  reported  has   left  room  for  the 
statement  in   the  petition   of  appeal  that  as  a  matter  of  fact 
the  oath  w:is  not  taken  in  the  (^hurch  at  all,  but  in  the  com- 
pound  of   the   Church,   and   the  language  reported  to  have 
been  used  by  the  4th  defendant  seems  to  me  to  point  to  the 
fact  that  he  gave  his  evidence  in  a  very  guarded  and  reserv- 
ed way.     I  am  by  no  means  satisfied   that  justice  has  been 
done  in   this   case   apart  from   any  technical    question.    I 
would  set  aside  the  judgment  in  the  case  and  direct  the  case 
to  be  tried  in  the  ordinary  course.     The  appellant  is  entitled 
to  the  costs  of  the  appeal. 

Case  remitted. 

Proctors  for  appellant — Murlin  &•  Sansoni. 

Proctor  for  respondent — G.  V.  E.  Pereirt. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL     CASES.  41 

In   the  Mattb'r  of  the  Last  Will  and  Testament 
OP  Don  Mathes  de  Silva,  Deceased. 

RA'i^iA'VJJ'^GA—Execuior-AjipeUant. 

No.  486,  D.  C,  Tangalle. 

Present :  Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  de  Sampayo,  J. 

nth  July,  1912. 

Stiinijis — pnihate  or  adiiiimstnit'iun  duty — tnlietliei-  iiilite  of  ettute  is 
ridue  lit  dfiuth  of  deoeuxcd  or  lit  date  of  JiJiiH/  final  nmnjiit. 

The  value  o£  an  estate  for  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  probate  or 
administration  duty  is  its  value  at  the  death  of  the  deceased,  and  not  at 
the  date  of  filing  of  the  final  account. 

This  is  an  appeal  frora  nn  order  of  the  District  Judge  of 
Tangalle  directing  the  executor  to  pay  stamp  duty  on  the 
probate  according  to  the  value  of  the  estate  at  the  date  of 
filing  of  the  final  account. 

Barthohjmcusz  for  the  appellant. — The  value  of  the 
estate  for  the  purpose  of  the  testamentary  proceedings  is  the 
value  at  the  death  of  the  deceased.  The  Commissioner  of 
Stamps  is  of  that  opinion.  The  case  of  In  re  WiUiain 
Perera  ^  refers  to  an  nnder-val nation  of  the  estate,  and  is 
not  applicable  to  the  present  cate. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  appeal  raises  a  question  whether 
the  value  of  an  estate  for  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  probate 
or  administration  duty  is  to  be  taken  to  be  the  value  of  the 
estate  at  the  death  of  the  deceased,  or  of  the  value  of  the 
estate  at  the  date  of  filing  of  the  final  account.  The  matter 
was  referred  in  this  case  to  the  Commissioner  of  Stamps  for 
his  opinion  ;  but  I  should  have  thought  that,  on  general  piin- 
ciples,  the  question  was  one  on  which  no  doubt  could  possi- 
bly arise.  The  opinion  of  the  Commissioner  of  Stamps  was 
that  the  property  ought  to  be  valued  as  at  the  day  of  the 
death,  and  that  income  subsequently  accrmng  is  not  to  be 
taken  into  account.     In  my  opinion  there   can   be   no  doubt 

1,     1  Bal  70, 


42 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


In  re        that  this   (ipinion   is   correct.     Probate   and    ad  mini  strati  on 

Laet  Will  and 

Testament  of  duties   are  taxes  which   are  levied  on  the  devolution  of  pro- 
"''^^  c^f**^^*  perty    at   the    death  of  the  owner,  and  it  is  essential  that  the 

value  of  the  property  should  be  ascertained  as  from  the  date  of 

the  death. 


de 
Sampayo,  J. 


There  appeiirs  to  have  been  some  confusion  -with 
regard  to  the  reference  to  the  District  Court  of  Colombo. 
The  letter  of  the  Secretary  of  the  District  Court  of  Tangalle 
is  unintelligibly  expressed,  and  it  was  evidently  understood, 
and  I  think  naturally  so,  to  inquire  as  to  the  time  at  which 
the  assessment  of  the  value  of  the  estate  was  to  be  made,  and 
not  whether  the  value  of  the  estate  was  to  be  ascertained 
as  from  the  date  of  the  death  or  as  from  the  date  of  the  filing 
of  the  final  account.  It  is  clear  from  the  answer  of  the 
Secretary  of  the  District  Court  of  Colombo  that  he  under- 
stood the  inquiry  to  relate  to  the  time  at  which  the  valuation 
of  the  estate  was  to  be  made.  There  is  only  one  other  point 
that  requires  notice,  and  that  is  the  observation  of  the  learn- 
ed District  Judge  that  the  appellant's  application  under  §  69 
was  out  of  time.  Taking  the  date  endorsed  on  the  probate 
as  being  the  date  when  the  ti'ue  value  of  the  estate  was  ascer- 
tained, namely,  the  6th  of  September,  1911,  it  is  clear  that 
the  application  is  not  out  of  time.  The  opinion  in  my  judg- 
ment refers  only  to  the  valuation  of  the  estate  for  the  pur- 
pose of  ascertaining  its  value  for  probate  or  administration 
duty,  and  has  no  reference  to  any  Court  fees  which  may  be 
chargeable  under  the  proceedings.  In  my  opinion  the  appeal 
ought  to  be  allowed,  and  the  District  Judge  should  act  in  con- 
formity with  the  opinion  which  1  have  expressed.  The  appell- 
ant to  have  the  costs  of  the  appeal  paid  out  of  the  estate. 

de  Sampayo,  J. — I  agree,  and  would  only  add  that  the 
difference  in  the  so-called  valuation  is  due  not  to  any  under- 
valuation on  the  part  of  the  appellant  in  the  inventory,  but 
to  an  addition  of  the  income  of  the  estate  which  subsequent- 
ly accrued  up  to  the  date  of  filing  of  the  final  account.  I 
think,  in  regard  to  the  stamps  on  letters  of  probate,  it  is  the 
property  of  the  estate  at  the  death  of  the  deceased  that 
should  be  taken  into  account,  and  not  the  subsequent  in- 
come of  that  property.     1  wish  also  to  say  that  the  learned 


COURT    OF    APPEAL     CASES.  43 

District  Judge  appears  to  have  misconstrued  or  misread  the 
judgment  Qf  Layard,  C.  J.,  reported  in  /  Balasingharn  70 
which  he  refers  to  in  his  order.  It  is  very  clear,  on  the 
proper  reading  of  that  judgment,  that  the  Chief  Justice  did 
not  differ  from  the  opinion  expressed  by  us  in  this  case,  hut 
that  he  decided  that  the  executor  in  that  case  had  under-valu- 
ed the  estate  originally,  because  from  her  own  final  account 
it  appeared  that  the  value  shown  in   that   account  was   the 

proper  value  of  the  estate. 

Ap2)eal  alloived. 

Proctor  for  appellant — L.  G.  Poulicr. 

:  0  : 

WICKREMESINGHE    /■.     PDNCHI     NONA. 

No.  5,246,  D.  C,  Matara. 

Prmeiit :  Pereira  &  Ennis,  JJ. 

20th  September,  1912. 

Mortgage  of  xeivrnl  lands — right  of  mortgagre  to  sell  in  any  order — 
(ihsence  of  special  direciionji  in  the  decree — Ciril  Procedure  Code  §  201. 

In  the  absence  of  a  special  direction  by  the  Judge,  it  is  quite  open 
to  the  mortgagee-creditor  to  exercise  his  own  discretion  as  to  the  order 
in  which  the  lands  shall  be  sold. 

The  mere  fact  that  the  lands  are  scheduled  in  the  decree  in  a  certain 
order  is  not  tantamount  to  a  direction  to  sell  them  in  that  order. 

This  was  an  action  on  a  mortgage  bond.  Decree  was 
duly  entered  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff ;  but  there  were  no 
directions  therein  as  to  the  order  in  which  the  mortgaged 
properties  should  be  sold  in  default  of  payment  of  the  mort- 
gage debt.  The  mortgagor,  however,  made  default,  and  the 
mortgagee  claimed  the  right  to  sell  the  mortgaged  properties 
in  any  order  he  thought  best  to  secure  to  himself  the  amount 
of  his  decree.  The  District  Judge  held  that  they  should  be 
sold  in  the  order  in  which  they  appeared  in  the  schedule 
annexed  to  the  decree.  Against  this  order  the  mortgagee 
appealed. 


k  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Wickreme-  Saiiicrcwickra iiie     (with.    Cooray)     for    the     plaintifE- 

"^^  *■      appellant. — .1  mortgagee  has  the  right  to  sell  the  mortgaged 
Punchi Nona,  pi^operties  in  any   order  he    ple;ises   «ee   S  Maasdorp  299; 
Pereira,  J.     T  od  20.  5.  4  ;    1  0(^1/1(111  Laiv  Revieiv  28. 

A.  St.  V.  .J(i(/('tracdcii(/  for  the  respondent. — The  Judge 
has  impliedly  indicated  that  the  properties  should  be  sold  in 
the  order  in  which  they  appear  in  the  schedule.  This  is  a 
question  of  procedure  which  is  governed  by  the  provisions  of 
§  201  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  and  therefore  the  author- 
ities cited  have  no  application. 

Sainercicickiumc  in  reply. 

Pereira,  J. — I  do  not  think  that  this  decree  can  stand. 
It  is  said  by  the  Counsel  for  the  respondent  that  the  decree 
in  the  case  is  a  decree  vmder  section  201  of  the  Civil  Proce- 
dure Code.  Assuming  that  to  be  so,  it  was  open  to  the 
District  Judge  to  give  directions  as  to  any  particular  order 
in  which  he  desired  the  different  parcels  of  land  to  be  sold. 
Such  directions  were  not  given.  It  is  argued  that  the  fact 
that  the  lands  are  scheduled  in  a  certain  order  is  tantamount 
to  a  direction  to  sell  them  in  that  order.  1  cannot  accede  to 
that  contention.  The  lands  had  to  be  shown  in  the  decree 
in  same  order,  and  I  should  have  expected  something  more 
than  the  fact  that  they  appear  in  the  decree  in  a  particular 
order  to  indicate  that  they  were  to  be  sold  also  in  that  order. 
In  the  absence  of  a  special  direction  by  the  Judge  it  is,  in 
my  opinion,  quite  open  to  the  mortgagee-creditor  to  exercise 
his  own  discretion  as  to  the  order  in  which  the  lands  should 
be  sold.  It  may  be  that  the  title  to  some  lands  is  uncertain, 
and  there  may  be  other  objections,  to  the  sale  of  these  lands, 
and  it  would  be  unfair  to  the  creditor  that  he  should  be 
compelled  to  effect  sales  that  may,  in  his  belief,  turn  out  to 
be  pertectly  nugatory.  The  creditor  must  be  allowed  to 
recover  his  money  in  the  least  expensive  way  possible.  The 
authorities  cited  by  the  Counsel  for  the  appellant  from 
„'  Maasdorji  />.  299  and  Voti  20.  5.  4.  appear  to  be  in  point,  I 
think  that  the  appellant  is  entitled  to  succeed,  and  the  appeal 
is  allowed  with  costs. 


COURT  Oi"  APPEAL  CASES.  45 

Ennis,  J.^^I  agree.      In   the   absence   of    any   special     ,  -, - 
direction  in   the   decree  the  creditor   would  be   entitled  to 
make  his   choice   in  any  order  that  he  thinks  best  to  secm-e 
him  the  amount  of  his  decree. 

Appeal  alloived. 

Proctor  for  appellant — G.  E.  <!■  G.  P.  Kcuneiiirni. 
Proctor  for  respondent — E.  BuiiJtJens. 


FONSEKA    u.    NARAYANEN    CHETTY. 

No.  8,256,  D.  C,  Negombo. 

Prcxrnt :  Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  de  Sampayo,  J, 

22nd  May,  1912. 

Evidence  Ordimnice  §  92 — notarial  titoi-tr/ai/e  bond— niihseiiuent  written 
agreement — to  change  mode  of  payinetit  ajid  to  increase  burden  of  debt — 
whetfier  admixtfihte  in  evidence  and  enforceable  in  anij  rcapcct — hite)-est 
affectini]  land. 

A  subsequent  non-notarial  written  agreement,  which  not  onlyohano;es 
the  mode  of  payment  of  a  debt  but  increases  its  burden,  is  inadmissible  in 
evidence  for  the  purpose  of  varying-  any  prior  notarial  mortgage  bond. 
It  constitutes  one  entire  promise  which  is  partly  within  and  partly  with- 
out §  2  of  Ordinance  7  of  18iO,  and  therefore  is  not  enforceable  in  any 
respect. 

Such  an  agreement  makes  the  security  bear  a  larger  debt,  and  con- 
sequently does  affect  the  lands  or  immoveable  property  mortgaged. 

Kiribanda  v.  Ukkubanda  '  and  Liixhington  i:  Carolis  ^  distinguished. 

Bawa,  K.  G.  (with  R.  H.  Morgan)  for   the  appellant. 

SamerewicJtraine  (with  H.  A.  Jayawardene  &  E.  G.  P. 
Jayetileke)  for  the  respondent. 

r.  a.  V. 

1.  {1911)  14  N,  L.  R.  181.        2.  (1911)  14  N'.  L.  R.  180. 


46  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Fonseka  de  Sampayo,  J. — On  7th  December,  1903,  the  plaintiff 

Narayanen  and  his  wife  executed  a  mortgage  bond  whereby  they  bound 
Chetty.  themselves  jointly  and  severally  to  pay  to  the  defendant  and 
Jo  three  other  chetties  or  to  one  or  more  of  them  on  demand  a 
Sampayo,  J.  gmji  of  Rs.  1,500  with  interest  thereon  at  13  per  cent,  once 
every  four  months  and  in  default  thereof  to  pay  interest  at 
the  rate  of  20  per  cent.,  and  as  security  for  such  payment 
they  mortgaged  certain  immoveable  property.  The  plaintiff 
from  time  to  time  made  certain  payments  in  liquidation  of 
the  debt,  and  he  says  that  at  the  date  of  this  action  there 
was  due  on  the  bond  only  a  sum  of  Rs.  285,  which  was 
tendered  to  defendant,  but  was  not  accepted.  He  accordingly 
brought  this  sum  into  Court  and  prayed  that  the  mortgage 
bond  be  cancelled  and  returned  to  him.  But  the  defendant 
pleaded  that  by  a  subsequent  written  agreement  the  terms  of 
payment  were  varied,  and  that  on  the  footing  of  that  agree- 
ment the  balance  due  on  the  bond  was  Rs.  1,177-50,  and  he 
accordingly  claimed  this  sum  in  reconvention  and  prayed 
for  a  mortgage  decree  and  for  sale  of  the  mortgaged  property. 

It  appears  that  on  the  7th  April,  1906,  the  plaintiff  and 
the  chetties  came  to  a  new  agreement  as  to  the  payment  of 
the  amount  of  the  debt.  They  made  a  calculation  of  the 
interest  that  would  be  due  on  the  principal  sum  of  Rs.  1,500 
from  that  date  till  the  6th  June,  1910,  at  12  per  cent.,  and 
adding  the  same  to  the  principal  they  arrived  at  the  total 
sum  of  Rs.  2,2.50.  It  was  then  agreed  that  this  sum  should 
be  paid  by  25  instalments  of  Rs.  90  each  payable  bi-monthly, 
that  after  all  the  instalments  have  been  fully  paid  the  mort- 
gage bond  should  be  cancelled  and  discharged,  and  that  in 
default  of  payment  of  the  instalments  as  agreed  interest 
should  be  payable  on  any  unpaid  balance  at  the  rate  of 
20  per  cent,  as  from  the  7th  April,  1906.  This  agreement 
was  subsequently  embodied  in  a  writing,  dated  the  13th 
October,  1907. 

The  point  for  consideration  is,  whether  the  writing, 
which  is  non-notarial,  is  admissible  in  evidence  and  is  avail- 
able for  the  purpose  of  defendant's  claim  in  reconvention. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  47 

It  will  be  noticed  that  the  document  itbielf   is   not   declared      Fonseka 
upon   as   an   independent   agreement  but  is  sought  to  be  en-    j^arayanen 
grafted  on  the  original  mortgage  bond,  and  that  the  defend-      Chetty. 
ant's   claim   is   on  the  mortgage   bond  as  so  modified.    The  ae 

District  Judge  has  admitted  the  document  in  evidence  on  ^""P^y"' *'• 
the  authority  of  Kirihcmda  v.  Ukkiibanda  '.  That  case 
decided  that  bince  the  enactment  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance 
a  notarial  agreement  might  be  varied  by  a  subsequent  non- 
notarial  writing,  provided  that  the  latter  -writing  was  not 
itself  of  such  a  nature  as  to  require  notarial  execution  under 
Ordinance  7  of  1840.  The  document  in  that  case  was  a  re- 
ceipt for  interest,  which  also  contained  an  agreement  that  no 
further  interest  should  be  payable  on  the  mortgage  bond, 
and  was  held  to  be  admissible  so  as  to  relieve  the  debtor 
from  its  date  of  his  obligation  to  pay  interest.  The  reason 
for  its  admissibility,  notwithstanding  the  Ordinance  7  of  1840, 
was  thus  put  by  Lascelles,  C.  J.:  "It  was  not  given  for  estab- 
"lishing  any  security  interest  or  incumbrance  affecting 
"land";  and  Middleton,  J,  said  :  "It  does  not  modify  the  ori- 
"ginal  agreement  in  any  respect  as  regards  its  efEect  on  land 
"or  immoveable  property".  Herein  lies,  to  my  mind,  the 
distinction  between  that  case  and  this.  The  writing  in  ques- 
tion not  only  changes  the  mode  of  payment  of  the  debt  but 
increases  its  burden,  with  the  result  that  now  the  plaintiflE 
owes  Rs.  1,177-50  instead  of  a  smaller  sum.  The  further 
efEect  of  this  is  to  make  the  security  bear  a  larger  debt,  and 
consequently  I  think  the  agreement  does  effect  the  lands  or 
immoveable  property  mortgaged  by  plaintiff.  The  defend- 
ant himself  understood  the  agreement  in  this  sense,  because, 
as  I  said  before,  he  declared  upon  the  mortgage  bond  as 
modified  by  the  subsequent  writing,  and  not  on  the  writing 
itself,  and  I  think  myself  this  is  the  effect  of  the  writing 
which  stipulated  that  the  plaintiff  was  not  to  be  entitled  to 
redeem  tln^  mortgage  until  he  had  paid  all  the  instalments 
under  the  agreement.  The  District  Judge  himself  felt  this 
difficulty,  since   he   refused  to   give  defendant   a   mortgage 


I.     {1911)  14  N.  L.  R.  181. 


48  COURT  OF  APPEA.L  CASES. 

Ponseka      decree.     If  the  case  of  Kirihanda  v.  Ukkuhanda  '  relied  on 
Narayanen    applied,  I  do  not  see  why  the  defendant  should  not  have  a 
Chetty.      mortgage  decree  as  well.     In  dealing  with  the  difQculty  the 
jg         District  Judge  referred  to  the  case  of  Litshhif/ton  v.  Carolis  ^ 
Sampayo,  J.  which    was  relied  on  before  us  also,  and  held  that  in  the 
writing  the  promise  to   pay  the  money  on  the  terms  agreed 
was   separable   from  the  agreement  relating  to   the   mort- 
gage, and  that  before  the  writing  could  and  did  modify  the 
personal   obligation   on   the  bond   though  not  the  mortgage 
security.    Now,  the  above  case  is  quite   different  from  this. 
There  the  action  was  for  a  non-notarial  bond,  which  was   of 
itself  a  single  and   complete   document,  and    was  not  one 
modifying  any   prior  notarial   mortgage  bond.    This  Court 
held,  and,  if  I  may  say  so,  rightly  held,  that  the   document 
could   be   sued  on  so  far  only  as  the  personal  obligation  was 
concerned.     Moreover,  I  do  not  think  that  the  present  writ- 
ing can   be   split  up  in  the  same  way.    It  constitutes  one 
entire  promise,  which   is   partly  within  and  partly  without 
§  2  of  Ordinance  7  of  1840,  and  therefore  according  to  that 
very  decision  is  not  enforceable  in  any  respect. 

In  my  opinion  the  judgment  appealed  against  cannot 
be  sustained.  I  think  it  should  be  set  aside  and  the  case 
sent  back  for  ascertainment  of  the  amount  now  due  from 
the  plaintiff  on  the  basis  of  the  original  bond.  It  is  desirable 
that  the  parties  should,  if  possible,  agree  as  to  the  amount; 
but  otherwise  the  District  Judge  will  ascertain  the  amount 
by  further  inquiry,  and  on  payment  by  plaintiff  of  the 
amount  so  agreed  or  ascertained  judgment  should  be  entered 
for  plaintiff  in  terms  of  the  second  prayer  of  the  plaint. 
The  plaintiff  will  have  costs  of  this  appeal.  But  as  regards 
the  costs  of  the  District  Court,  the  plaintiff's  denial  of  the 
execution  of  the  writing  necessitated  a  long  trial  on  the 
issue  of  fact,  and  I  think  each  party  should  bear  his  own 
costs  in  the  District  Court.     The  costs  of   the  further  pro- 


h  {1911)  14  N.  L,  B.  181.        2.  (1911)  14  N.  L,  B.  189, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  49 

ceediQgs,   if   any,   will  be  at  the  discretion  of   the  District 
Judge. 

Lascelies,  G.  J. — I  entirely  agree. 

Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellant — (7.  J.  Edlrisinghe. 
Proctor  for  respondent — D.  L.  E.  A/)ierasinghe. 


■■  o:- 


VELUPPILL.-VI    V.    CASIPPILLII. 

No.  6,705,  P.  C,  Jaffna. 

Present:  Wood  Renton,  J. 

22nd  July,  1912. 

Frividous  or  vexatious  comjfliimt — order  for  com  pen-nation — all  the 
Kirit'tiesses  of  coniplainarLt  not  examined— ^  197  (1)  Criminal  Procedure  Code. 

There  is  nothing-  in  §  la7(-Z)  Criminal  Procedure  Oode  which  either 
expressly  or  by  necessary  implication  requires  a  Police  Magistrate  to  hear 
every  witness  whom  a  complainant  may  desire  to  call  before  exercising 
the  powers  with  which  the  section  has  invested  him. 

A  charge  that  is  deliberately  false  is  "vexatious"  within  the  mean- 
ing of  §  197. 

The  appellant  in  this  case  charged  the  accused  with 
having  voluntarily  caused  hurt  to  him  under  §  'SH  of  the 
Penal  Code.  He  gave  the  names  of  four  persons  as  witnesses, 
and  on  the  date  of  trial  they  were  all  present  in  Court. 
Biat  after  hearing  the  complainant  and  one  of  his  witnesses 
the  learned  Miigistrate  acquitted  the  accused  and  called 
upon  the  complainant  to  show  cause  why  he  should  not  be 
fined  Rs.  5  crown  costs  and  Rs.  10  compensation  for  having 
brought  a  false  charge  against  the  accused.  On  no  fause 
being  shown  he  was  fined  Rs.  5  crown  costs  and  ordered 
to  pay  Rs.  10  compensation  to  the  accused.  The  complain- 
ant appealed  against  the  order  to  pay  coinpensation. 


50  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Veluppillai  /.  Joseph  for  the  appellant. — The  order  to  pay  compen- 

C  s'^ilai  sation  was  irregular.  The  complainant's  case  was  not  closed, 
and  the  learned  Magistrate  should  have  allo%ved  the  complain- 
Wood  ^  ^^_^j.  ^^  ^^^^  ^jj  j^.g  ^yitneages.  (^,Sii]i/:a  NayakJca  v.Kawica  \ 
and  483  P.  C,  Kuril neyallc,  10,764  ;.  The  complaint  is 
not  vexations.  A  vexatious  complaint  is  one  that  is  brought 
without  cause,  or  for  a  matter  so  trivial  that  no  person  of 
ordinary  temper  would  complain  of  it,  with  intent  to  harm 
the  person  complained  of.  dc  Sih'a  v.  Mohammaclo  K  Here 
the  charge  against  the  accused  is  one  of  voluntarily  causing 
hurt,  and  it  cannot  be  said  to  be  a  trivial  ofifence. 

Wood  Renton,  J. — This  is  an  appeal  against  a  convic- 
tion under  §  197  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code.  The 
appellant  charged  one  Nanuitamby  Casipillai  with  having 
voluntarily  caused  hurt  to  him,  an  offence  punishable  under 
§  olJ:  of  the  Penal  Code.  The  appellant  himself  gave 
evidence,  and  at  the  close  of  his  evidence  called  another 
witness,  who  was  duly  examined.  The  learned  Police 
Magistrate  regarded  the  evidence  of  both  the  appellant  and 
this  witness  as  entirely  false.  He  convicted  the  witness 
under  §  440  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  of  having 
given  false  evidence  and  fined  him  Rs.  50,  sentencing  him 
in  default  of  payment  of  the  fine  to  one  month's  rigorous 
imprisonment.  The  learned  Magistrate  then  called  upon  the 
appellant  to  show  cause  why  ho  should  not  be  fined  Eb.  5 
crown  costs  and  Rs.  10  compensation  for  having  brought  a 
false  charge  against  the  accused.  The  appellant  apparently 
had  no  special  cause  to  show,  and  he  was  forthwith  fined 
Rs.  5  and  ordered  to  pay  Rs.  10  compensation.  There  is  no 
appeal  from  the  fine  of  Rs.  5  by  way  of  crown  costs.  But 
the  present  appeal  is  brought  against' the  order  to  pay  com- 
pensation. The  main  point  urged  on  the  appellant's  behalf 
is  that  the  Police  Magistrate  had  no  right  to  make  the  order 
under  appeal  inasmuch  as  the  appellant  had  several  other 
witnesses   whose   names   were  on   his   list  of  witnesses,  and 

1.     {1890)  ,5  7\unh.  110.         2.     {1899)  Koch  54. 
3.     {1897)  3  N.L.U.3. 


COURT     OF     APPEA.L     CASES.  51 

who  were  not  in  fact  exaniined.     I  do  not  see  anything  in   Veluppillai 

V. 

the  record  to  show  that  an  application  was  made  to  the  Police  Casippillai. 
Magistrate  on  the  appt-llant's  Vehalf  for  leave  to  c;ill  the  addi- 
tional  witnesses.  Bnt  I  will  decide  the  case  on  the  hasiti  that  enton,  J, 
Buch  an  iipplication  had  been  made  and  had  been  refused. 
The  ])rocednreiH  defined  by  §  197  of  the  (.'riminal  Procedure 
Code.  There  is  nothing  in  that  section  which  either  express- 
ly or  by  necessary  -implication  requires  a  Police  Magistrate 
to  hear  every  witness  whom  a  complainant  may  desire  to 
call  before  exercising  the  powers  with  which  the  section  has 
invested  him.  There  are,  however,  two  reported  cases  in 
which  it  was  held  by  Lawrie,  J.,  that  an  order  as  to  crown 
costs  ar.d  compensation  is  bad  if  made  without  examining 
all  the  witnesses  that  the  complainant  undertakes  to  produce. 
(See  Stippa  Nayciklia  v.  Kaiviva  \  and  48S  P.  C.,  Khi'hjip- 
gala,  No.  10,764  ".)  With  the  utmost  respect  I  am  unable  to 
follow  those  decisions  in  view  of  the  language  of  §  197  of 
the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  itself.  They  appear  to  me  to 
amount,  not  to  a  judicial  interpretation  (if  that  section, but  to 
its  amendment  by  a  species  of  legislation  which  the  law  of 
the  Colony  does  not  recognise.  It  is  quite  easy  to  put  cases 
in  which  the  application  of  the  rule  laid  down  by  l^awrie,  J., 
in  the  two  decisions  above  referred  to  would  yield  absurd 
results.  Suppose  that  a  complainant  filed  a  list  of  10  or  1.5 
witnesses,  that  the  complainant  himself  and  ?>  or  4  of  his 
witnesses  broke  completely  down  in  the  course  of  cross- 
examination,  and  that  it  was  obvious  to  the  judge  and  to 
every  one  who  was  present  at  the  proceedings  that,  even 
although  there  might  be  other  witnesses  on  the  list  who 
might  give  more  reliable  evidence  on  incidental  points,  not 
only  would  it  be  absolutely  unjust  to  convict  the  accused  in 
view  of  the  character  of  the  evidence  already  given,  but  the 
charge  itself  was  false.  Can  it  really  be  said  to  be  a  reason- 
able interpretation  of  the  law  that,  under  such  cii-cutnstances, 
a  Court  should  be  bound  to  hear  all  the  remaining  witnesses 
before  it  could  punish  a  complainant  who  had  already  made 
it   abundantly   clear  that  the  charge  that  he  came  into  Court 

1.     {1899)  2  Tamh.  110.       2.     {1899)  Koch  54, 


52 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Veluppillai   to  prefer  was  unfounded?     It  is  only  ncceteary  to  put  the 
Casimiillai    pi'oposition  in  that  waj'  to  show  that  the  two  above-mention- 


Wood 
Renton,  J. 


ed  decisions  by  Lawrie,  J.,  do  not  constitute  a  good  working 
interpretation  of  §197  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code.  It 
is  clear,  I  think,  that  each  case  should  be  decided  on  its  own 
circumstances.  In  my  opinion  the  circumstances  here  are 
sufficient  to  justify  the  action  which  the  Police  Magistrate 
has  taken.  He  heard  the  evidence  of  both  the  complainant 
and  his  first  witness  ;  he  was  satisfied  that  the  evidence  of 
both  was  false  and  that  the  charge  itself  was  false  too;  and 
he  has  recorded  an  incident  which  strongly  corroborates  the 
conclusion  at  which  he  arrived.  "If  complainant's  demeanour 
"had  not  been  enough,  1  should  have  been  convinced  when 
"his  witness  came  into  the  box,  and  complainant  deliberately 
"prompted  him,  before  he  could  be  stopped,  to  make  a  cer- 
"tain  statement  in  support  of  the  case  for  the  prosecution.'' 
An  incident  of  that  kind  occurring  before  a  judge  and  jury 
would  in  most  cases  have  led  to  an  immediate  acquittal.  It 
is  entitled  to  great  weight  in  considering  whether  or  not  the 
Police  Magistrate  has  correctly  exercised  the  powers  confer- 
red upon  him  by  §  197  of  the  Code.  The  only  other  point 
taken  by  the  appellant's  counsel  was  that  the  charge  had  not 
been  shown  to  be  vexatious.  In  support  of  that  contention 
he  referred  to  the  decision  of  Withers,  J  ,  in  dc  Silv<(.  v. 
Mamrnadu  ^ .  But  that  decision,  in  my  opinion,  does  not  in 
any  way  support  the  inference  sought  to  be  deduced  from  it. 
Withers,  J.,  expressly  held  in  that  case  that  a  complaint  is 
vexatious  where  it  is  brought  without  cause.  We  have  here  a 
finding  by  the  Police  Magistrate,  based  upon  ample  evidence, 
that  the  charge  brought  by  the  complainant  in  the  Police 
Court  was  deliberately  false,  and  that  charge  v.as  therefore 
"vexatious"  within  the  meaning  of  that  term  as  defined  in 
de  Silva  v.  Matni/iadii  '. 

The  appeal  is  dismissed. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant.— P.  S.  T.  Ghrysostom. 

1.     {1897)  3  N.  L.  R.  3, 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES.  53 

GOONEWARDENE    v.    SILVA  et  al. 
No.  18,085,   P.  C,  Negombo. 
Present :  Lascelles,  C.  J. 

7th  October,  1912. 

Rrfrmice  hi/  >/  Policp  Court  to  tin;  Villngc  Triiiiniil  of  ii  rlmrge  not 
triable  hy  tlnit  Trihuiidl^inal  order — iiji/ictilohlfl — C'riniimil  Procedure 
Code  yo.  15  oflSOS  §  33S. 

An  order  of  transfer  to  the  Vill.Tye  Tribunal  of  a  charge  which  that 
Tribunal  has  no  power,  to  entertain  is,  aa  regards  that  charge,  a  final 
order  within  the  meaning-  of  §  S'iS  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code,  and 
is  appealable. 

Where  the  Magistrate  transferred  to  the  Village  Tribunal  charges 
under  §§  343  and  i09  of  the  Penal  Code  and  §  70  of  the  Police  Ordinance, 

Held,  that  the  transfer  is  wrong,  as  the  charge  under  §  70  is  not 
within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Village  Tribunal. 

In  this  case  the  complainant  charged  the  accused  under 
§  343  of  the  Peunl  <)ode  with  using  criminal  force;  under 
§  409  with  committing  mischief ;  and  under  §  70  of  the  Police 
Ordinance  No.  IG  of  1865  with  abuse  of  authority  as  Police 
Officers.  The  Magistrate  hearil  the  evidence  of  the  com- 
plainant and  of  his  witness  and  referred  the  case  to  the 
Village  Tribunal.  .Igainst  this  ordei'  the  complainant 
appealed. 

A.  St.  V  Jctijeirardene  for  the  appellant. — Whatever 
may  be  said  with  regard  to  the  charges  uniler  ^§  ."43  and  109 
of  the  Penal  Code,  that  under  §  70  of  the  Police  Ordinance  is 
clearly  not  triable  by  the  Village  Tribunal.  The  order  re- 
ferring the  complainant  to  the  Village  Tribunal  is  therefore 
wrong.  [La,sv_Y'//t'.s%  C.J.  How  can  you  appeal  "without  the  sanc- 
tion of  the  Au  irney-General  ?]  The  order  of  the  Magistrate 
is  not  one  refusing  to  issue  process  or  acquitting  the  accused, 
and  does  not  come  within  §  337  of  the  Criminal  Procedure 
Code.  \_LuHCcHfs,  C.  J.  Even  then  the  order  is  not  a  final 
one,  as  you  might  get  the  Attorney-General  to  re-transfer  the 
case  to  the  Police  Court.]     We  could  not  act  on  the  order  of 


54 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


C.J. 


Goonewar-    the  Police  Magistrate,  because  we   contend  that  the  Village 

^^^        Tribunal  has  no  jurisdiction  to  try  the  offence  under  §  70  of 

Silva  H  al.   the  Police  Ordinance.     If  we  go  before  the  Village  Tribunal 

Lascelles,      '^^  '^'iH  ^^  acknowledging  its  right  to  try  the  case.    That  is 

what  we  challenge.  The  order,  if  it  stands,  prevents  the  Police 

Magistrate  f r^im  again  trying  the  case,  hence  it  is  final  so  far 

as    the    Police    Magistrate  is   concerned.     An  appeal  would 

therefore  lie. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  is  an  appeal  against  an  order  of 
the  Police  Magistrate  of  Negombo.  The  accused  in  the  case 
were  charged  under  §  343  of  the  Penal  Code  with  using 
criminal  force  ;  under  §  409  with  mischief  ;  and  under  §  70 
of  the  Police  Ordinance  of  1865  with  abuse  of  authority  as 
Police  Officeis.  The  Magistrate  heard  the  evidence  of  the 
complainant,  and  he  then  referred  the  case  to  the  Village 
Tribunal,  as  the  offences  appeared  to  be  within  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  that  Tribunal.  From  this  order  the  complainant  now 
appeals. 

Now  the  only  difficulty  that  I  can  see  in  the  case  is  as 
to  the  question  of  the  procedure  as  to  whether  an  appeal  lies 
against  an  order  of  this  nature,  for  on  the  merits  of  the  case 
I  see  no  room  for  any  doubt  at  all.  A  charge  under  §  70  of 
the  Police  Ordinance  is  certainly  not  within  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  Village  Tribunal,  and  the  Magistrate  was,  in  my 
0 pinion,  wropg  in  refeiring  the  charge  of  this  nature  to  that 
Tribunal.  Then  comes  the  question  whether  an  appeal  lies 
against  an  order  of  this  description.  I  first  of  all  was  inclin- 
ed to  doubt  whether  the  order  under  appeal  is  "a  judgment 
"or  final  order  pronounced  by  a  Police  Court  within  the 
"meaning  of  §  338  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code".  But 
on  considering  the  matter  it  seems  to  me  that,  although  there 
is  doubt  as  to  the  charges  under  §§  343  and  409,  and  that  it 
might  be  argued  that  an  order  transferring  a  charge  under  these 
sections  to  a  Village  Tribunal  is  not  a  final  order,  the  case 
is  otherwise  as  to  the  charge  under  §  70  of  the  Police  Ordinance. 
In  considering  whether  an  order  is  a  final  order  regard  must 
be   had   to   the  effect  of  the  order.     If  a  Magistrate  transfers 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  55 

to  the  Village  Tribunal  a  charge  which  that  Tribunal  has  no 
power  to  entertain  it  seems  to  me  that  the  orJer  of  transfer 
as  regards  that  charge  is  a  final  order,  for  it  finally  disposes 
of  the  charge.  In  the  present  case,  if  the  order  of  the 
Magistrate  is  allowed  to  stanrl,  no  charge  can  bo  maintained 
against  the  accused-  under  §  70  of  the  Police  Ordinance.  I 
therefore  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  order  of 
transfer  which  relates  to  the  charge  under  §  70  of  the  Police 
Ordinance  is  a  final  order,  and  that  the  order  is  appealable. 
As  T  have  said,  on  the  merits  of  the  case  I  think  there  can 
be  no  question  at  all  that  the  order  made  by  the  Magistrate 
is  wrong.  1  therefore  set  aside  the  order  of  the  Magistrate 
transferring  the  trial  of  this  case  to  the  Village  Tribunal 
and  direct  him  to  proceed  and  try  the  complaint  in  the  ordi- 
nary course. 

Order  set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellant. — C.  J.  Edirisinghe. 

:o:  

PERERA    V.    ABEYIMTNE    et  al. 

No.  33,620,  D.  C,  Colombo. 

Present:  Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  Pereira,  J. 

2lHt  October,  1912. 

flv'd  Proccd'irfl  Cm/:!  §  344  -I'.iYcnflo/i  of  dfcnv — si/if  liij  juihpnrnl- 
ili'bliii'  to  .«'/  aside  sale  on  the  (jrouiul  of  irrrffiilaritics — jiarties  to  tlir  suit. 

A  judgment-debtor  who  seeks  to  have  a  sale  in  executioQ  of  a  decree 
set  aside  on  tha  ground  of  irregularities  cannot  institute  a  separate 
action  for  the  purpose,  but  should  proceed  in  the  same  action  as  pro- 
vided by  §  '6ii  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

The  fact  that  the  purchaser  is  a  stranger  to  the  action  in  which  the 
decree  was  passed  will  not  prevent  the  application  of  §  'AH. 

The  plaintiff  respondent  in  this  case  was  the  judgment- 
debtor  in  D.  C,  Colombo,  32,29G.  In  that  case  one  Sellappah 
Chetty  obtained  a  hypothecary  decree  for  a  sum  of 
Rs.  12,330'50  against  the  plaintiff-respondent  and  in  execution 


56 

Perera 

v. 
Abeyratne 

ct  at. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

of  that  decree  two  lands  bound  under  the  mortgage  decree 
wern  ordered  by  the  Court  to  be  sold  by  the  auctioneer.  Before 
the  sale  Sellappah  Ghetty  assigned  and  transferred  the  decree 
to  the  1st  defendant-appellant,  and  he  was  duly  substituted 
plaintiii  on  the  record.  At  the  sale  the  two  lands  were 
purchased  by  the  1st  and  2nd  defendants  for  the  sums  of 
Ks.  4,200  and  Rs.  5,200  respectively.  The  plaintiff-respond- 
ent thereupon  brought  this  action  to  have  the  sales  set  aside 
on  the  following  grounds  :  (1)  that  he  had  no  notice  of  the 
conditions  under  which  the  sales  were  to  be  conducted  and 
of  the  appointment  of  the  auctioneer,  (2)  that  no  proper  direc- 
tions were  given  by  the  Court  to  the  auctioneer  regarding 
the  conduct  of  the  sales,  (ji)  that  there  was  no  sufficient  publi- 
cation of  the  said  sale,  (4)  that  one  sale  was  held  at  such  a 
short  time  after  the  previous  sale  as  to  render  it  impossible 
for  the  majority  of  the  would-be  bidders  who  were  present  at 
the  former  sale  to  be  present  at  the  latter. 


He  further   alleged   that  the   lands  were  worth  at  least 
Rs.  18,000,  and  that  he  was  considerably  prejudiced  by 
irregularities. 


The  defendants  denied  the  irregularities.;  and  even 
admitting  the  irregularities,  they  denied  that  the  plaintiff 
was  entitled  to  the  relief  he  sought.  They  also  alleged  that 
the  plaintiff  suffered  no  damage,  and  the  plaint  disclosed  no 
cause  of  action.  Several  issues  were  framed,  inclnding  the 
following  issue  of  law  "Does  the  plaint  disclose  a  cause  of 
"action  against  the  defendants,  and  is  plaintiff  entitled  to 
maintain  this  action  ?" 


The  learned  District  Judge  held  against  the  defenlantg 
on  all  the  issues  and  gave  judgment  for  the  phiintiffi  in  terms 
of  his  prayer.     The  defendants  appealed. 

H.  A.  Jayeivardciir  (Baivt/,  K.  U.,  A.  S.-G.,  with  him) 
for  the  appellants. — This  action  relates  to  the  execution  of  the 
decree  in  D.  C,  Colombo,  32,296,  and  is  therefore  not  main- 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES.  .W 


tainable.  §  344  is  a  bar  to  the  present  action.  The  fact  that  the  Perera 
auction  purchaser  is  a  third  party  and  is  interested  in  the  re-  Abeyratne 
suit  does  not  prevent  the  application  of  §344.  Prosunno  ''* '^^■ 
Kumci)'  Sa-)njnl  V.  Kali  Das  SnvyaV  ;  Bai^tri Bam  v.  Fattu'^; 
Dhani  Ram  v.  CJiaturhhuJ'';  and  DanJat  Singh  v.  Ingal- 
kishot'e  *.  The  Privy  Council  has  held  in  Pivsunnn  Kumar 
Samjal  v.  Kali  Das  Sanyal  ^  that  §  244  of  the  Indian  Civil 
Procedure  Code  corresponding  to  §  344  of  our  Code,  should 
be  liberally  construed.  The  District  Judge  is  wrong  in 
holding  that  §  344  applies  only  to  executions  carried  out 
through  the  Fiscal  and  that  it  should  be  read  with  §  282. 
It  applies  to  the  execution  of  all  decrees,  whatever^may  be 
the  mode  of  execution.  Most  of  the  sections  falling  under 
the  head  "general  provisions"  under  which  §344  conies  have 
been  held  to  apply  to  mortgage  actions  where  executions 
need  not  necessarily  be  carried  out  through  the  Fiscal.  The 
remarks  of  Wood  Renton,  J.,  in  SvUun  v.  Packeer  ^  are 
obiter,  and  the  judgment  of  the  Privy  Council  was  not 
cited  in  that  case.  In  Goonefilleke  v.  Goottcfilleke  "  the 
Privy  Council  ruling  was  cited,  and  Justice  Wood  Renton 
seems  to  have  modified  the  view  expressed  by  him  in  Sultan 
V.  Packeer  ■'.  Apart  from  authority  it  would  be  highly  vexa- 
tious to  allow  a  fresh  action  to  decide  a  matter  arising  inci- 
dentally in  the  execution  of  a  decree  in  another  case.  The 
judgment-debtor  has  no  cause  of  action  at  common  law  and 
he  must  rely  entirely  on  the  statutory  remedy.  Even  where 
there  is  an  allegation  of  fraud  it  has  been  held  that  §  344 
applies. 

Sampayo,  K.  G.  (with  B.  L.  Pereira)  for  respondent. — 
§  344  of  the  Code  should  be  read  in  connection  with  §  282. 
It  is  only  to  those  cases  to  which  §  282  would  apply  that 
§  344  also  would  apply.  The  sections  of  the  Code  coming 
under  the  chapter  called  "general  provisions"  have  limited 
application,  referring  only  to  Fiscal's  sales.     In  India  they 

1.  (189S)  I.  L.R.19  Cat.  688.     4.  {1899)  I.  L.  B.  22  All.  108. 

2.  {1886)  I.  L.  B.  8  All  lie.        5.  (1911)  14  N.  L.  B.  52. 

3.  {1899)  I.  L.  B.  22  All  86.       6.  {1812)  15  N.  L.  R.  272. 


58 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 


Perera 

T. 

Abeyratne 
k  al. 

Pereira,  J. 


have  no  separate  procedure  for  Bales  under  a  mortgage  decree 
and  that  accounts  for  the  wide  interpretation  given  to  the 
Indian  sections  by  the  Courts.  It  is  not  in  every  case  that  a 
party  can  invoke  §  '544  to  have  matters  arising  from  the 
execution  of  a  decree  to  be  settled. 


Bawa,  K.  C,  in  reply. 


r.  a.  I'. 


Pereira,  J- — The  1st  defendant  in  this  case  is  assignee 
of  the  decree  entered  up  in  ease  No.  32,296  of  the  District 
Court  of  Colombo,  which  is  a  mortgage  decree  under  §  201 
of  the  Ci  ril  Procedure  Code.  In  execution  of  that  decree 
two  parcels  of  land  were  put  up  for  sale  by  the  auctioneer 
named  in  it,  and  purchased  by  the  2nd  and  3rd  defendants 
respectively.  The  plaintiff,  who  is  the  judgment-debtor  on 
the  decree,  brings  this  action  to  have  the  sale  of  the  two 
parcels  of  land  cancelled  on  the  ground  of  certain  irregulari. 
ties  which  he  sets  forth  in  the  plaint ;  and  the  question  has 
been  raised  whether  in  view  of  the  provisions  of  §  34i  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code  it  was  open  to  the  plaintiff  to  bring  a 
separate  action  in  this  way  to  determine  what,  it  is  contended, 
is  a  question  relating  to  the  execution  of  the  decree.  I  may,  in 
passing,  observe  that  if,  in  the  above  circumstances,  the 
remedy  by  means  of  a  separate  action  were  open  to  a  party, 
I  doubt  very  much  that  he  could,  as  the  plaintiff  has  here 
done,  amalgamate  his  claims  in  one  action  where  two 
separate  piircels  of  land  have  been  sold  under  the  decree  to 
two  separate  individuals.  But,  as  observed  above,  the  only 
question  for  decision  at  present  is  whether  a  separate  action 
could  be  brought  at  all.  The  terms  of  §  344  are  quite  clear. 
It  runs  thus  : — 

"All  questions  arising  between  the  parties  to  the 
"action  in  which  the  decree  was  passed  or  their  legal  re- 
"presentatives  and  relating  to  the  execution  of  the  decree 
"shall  be  determined  by  order  of  the  Court  executing 
"the  decree  and  not  by  separate  action." 

So  that  if  the  present  question  can  be  said  to  be  a  ques- 
tion between  the  parties  to  the  original  action,  there  can  bejio 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  59 

doubt  that  the  section  would  apply.     It  has  been  argued  that      Perera 
in  considering  the  meaning  of  the  section  its  location  in   the   Abeyratoe 
Code  should  be  taken  into  account.     It  is  said  that  it  appears  ,      «*  <^^- 
in  the  Code  as  a  section  of  chapter  22,  and  that  therefore   it  Pereira  J. 
applies  to  questions   other  than  those  specially  provided  for 
by  §  282  in  connection   with   such   executions   only   as   are 
treated  of  in  that  chapter.    In  the  firtt  place,  the  plain  words 
of   the   section   do   not  justify   the   assumption  that  it  was 
intended  to  have   such   a   limited  operation.     In   the   next, 
the   section   is   one   of  several  under   the  heading  "general 
provisions",  and  it  will   be   seen   that   under   that   heading 
there  are  several  sections  (I  need  not  enumerate  them  here) 
that  are  obviously  intended  to  have  general  application,  and 
must   necessarily   be   allowed  operation  in  connection  with 
the  execution  of  decrees  under  §  201. 

Now  to  come  to  the  consideration  of  the  question 
whether  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  execution  purchasers 
are  not  parties  to  the  original  action,  the  present  question 
can  be  said  to  be  one  between  "the  parties  to  the  action"  so 
as  to  bring  it  within  the  operation  of  §  314.  The  section  of 
the  Indian  Code  corresponding  to  this  section  is  §  244.  It 
is  in  parts  material  to  the  present  inquiry  expressed  in 
substantially  the  same  terms  as  those  of  the  section  of  our 
Code  ;  and  so  early  as  1886  it  was  held  by  a  Pull  Bench  of 
the  High  Court  at  Allahabad  {see  Basil  Ra)n  u.  Fattu.  ^) 
that  the  provisions  of  §  244  of  the  old  Indian  Code  of  Civil 
Procedure  prohibited,  not  only  a  suit  between  parties  and 
their  representatives  but  also  a  suit  by  a  party  or  his 
representatives  against  a  purchaser  at  a  sale  in  execution  of 
the  decree,  the  object  of  which  was  to  determine  a  question 
which  properly  arose  between  the  parties  or  their  represent- 
atives and  related  to  the  execution,  discharge,  or  satisfaction  of 
the  decree.  I'he  action  there  was  an  action  to  set  aside  an 
execution  sale  on  the  ground  that  it  was  illegal  and  void  as  it 
contravened  the  provisions  of  a  certain  Indian  Act  known 
as  the  Rent  Act.     That  decision  was  followed  in  the  case  of 

/.    (1886)  I.  L.  E.  8  All.  146. 


60 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Perera 

V. 

Abeyratne 

et  al. 

Pereira,  J. 


Dhani  Ram  v.  Ohaturhhuj  i  and  many  other  cases ;  and 
eventually,  in  the  case  of  Sanyal  v.  Kali  Das  =,  on  appeal 
from  the  High  Court  of  Calcutta,  the  Privy  Council  held  that 
-where  questions  were  raised  between  the  parties  to  a  decree 
relating  to  its  execution,  discharge,  or  satisfaction  the  fact  that 
a  purchaser  at  a  judicial  sale,  who  was  no  party  to  the  decree 
of  which  the  execution  was  in  question,  was  interested  and 
concerned  in  the  result,  had  never  been  held  to  prevent  the 
application  of  §  244  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  limiting  the 
disposal  of  those  matters  to  the  Court  executing  the  decree. 
In  the  course  of  their  judgment  their  Lordships  observed  as 
follows : — 

"It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that  all  objections 
"to  execute  sales  should  be  disposed  of  as  cheaply  and 
"as  speedily  as  possible.  Their  Lordships  are  glad  to 
"find  that  the  Courts  in  India  have  not  placed  any 
"narrow  construction  on  the  language  of  §  244,  and  that 
"when  a  question  has  arisen  as  to  the  execution,  discharge, 
"or  satisfaction  of  a  decree  between  the  parties  to  the 
"suit  in  which  the  decree  was  passed  the  fact  that  the 
"purchaser,  who  is  no  party  to  thesuit,  is  interested  in  the 
"result  has  never  been  held  a  bar,  to  the  application 
"of  the  section." 

This  is  a  binding  authority.  Two  local  cases  were 
referred  to  in  the  course  of  the  argument — Sultan  v. 
Packeer  ^  and  Goonetillelce  v.  Ouonetillelte  *.  In  the  former 
no  objection  to  the  action  appears  to  have  been  taken  in  the 
Court  below,  and  theie  is  no  reference  at  all  to  such  an  objec- 
tion in  the  judgment  of  Hutchinson,  C.  J.;  but  my  brother 
Wood  Renton  incidentally  refers  to  an  argument  by  the 
Counsel  for  the  appellant  in  that  case  based  upon  the  above 
objection  ;  and  he  says  that  in  the  view  that  he  has  taken  of 
the  question  of  costs  it  is  unnecessary  to  deal  at  length  with 
this  argument,  and  disposes  of  the  matter  with  an  expression 
of  opinion   against  the  contention  of  the  appellant's  Counsel. 


;.  I.L.  R.  22  All.  86. 
2.  I.  L.R.19  Cal.  683. 


3.  {1911)  14  N.L.R.52. 

4.  {1912)  15  N.  L.  B.  212. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  61 

The  Indian  cases  mentioned  above  do  not  appear  to  have 
been  cited  in  that  case.  The  ruling  of  Goonetilleke  v.  Goone- 
tilleke^,  however,  appears  to  me  to  accord  with  the  appellant's 
Counsel  in  the  present  case.  I  would  set  aside  the  judgment 
appealed  from  and  dismiss  the  plaintiflE's  action  with  costs. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — I  entirely  concur,  and  have  only  to 
add  that  in  Goonetilleke  v.  Goonetilleke  \  to  the  decision  of 
which  case  I  was  a  party,  the  decision  of  the  Privy  Council 
inSanyal  v.  Kali  Das  -  was  considered,  and  waathe  author- 
ity, so  far  as  the  judgment  de.pended  on  authority,  on  which 

our  decision  was  based. 

Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellants — A.  C.  Abeyewardene. 

Proctors  for  respondent — Prins  &  Sivcui. 


FULL    BENCH. 

Crown  Case  Reserved. 

THE   KING   V.   KALU    BANDA. 

No.  16,189,  P.  C,  Kegalle. 

Present :  Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  Pereira  &  Ennis,  JJ. 

23rd  September,  1912. 

Statement  by  an  accused  to  a  j)uUce  officer — omission  to  set  up  the  defence 
suhseqwnthj  set  up — admissiiilit ij  of  siioh  ecidence — statement  suggesting 
inference  of  guilt — admission — confession — eiideiice  of  conduct — Ecidence 
Ordinance  yo.  14  oflS95  §§  17,  25  4-  S. 

Tke  accused  was  tried  for  voluntarily  causing  grievous  liurt  to  one 
B.  The  defence  set  up  by  him  in«his  statutory  declaration  in  the  Police 
Court,  and  also  in  the  Supreme  Court,  was  that  he  had  struck  B  with  a 
mammotty  in  defending  himself  against  an  attack  which  B  was  making 
upon  him  with  a  knife.  The  prosecution  proved  that  the  accused  had 
made  a  certain  statement  to  a  police  officer  (headman),  and  that  in  that 
statement  he  had  not  charged  B  with  having  attacked  or  threatened  to 

1.     {1912)  15  N.  L.  E.  212.         2.    I.  L.  R.  19  Cal.  683. 


62  COUET    OF    APPEAL    CA.SES. 

King         attack  him  with  a  knife  or  mentioned  that  he  had  himself  struck  B  with 

'^'  a  mammoty. 

Kalu  Banda. 

UeU  that  such  a  statement  is  a  confession  and  therefore  inadmissi- 
ble in  evidence  under  §  25  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance. 

The  evidence  of  the  police  officer  referring  to  the  omission  of  the 
accused  to  set  up  the  defence  on  which  he  subsequently  relied  was  evi- 
dence of  a  statement  by  the  accused  sug-g'esting  the  inference  that  the 
defence  on  which  he  relied  was  not  set  up  by  him  at  the  time  when,  if 
true,  it  would  naturally  have  been  set  up  and  that  it  was  therefore  false 
and  consequently  that  he  had  committed  the  offence  of  which  he  was 
charged. 

Per  Lascdles,  C,  J. — When  a  police  headman  is  allowed  to  prove 
that  the  accsued  shortly  after  the  offence  was  committed  made  a  state- 
ment to  him  and  in  that  statement  he  made  no  reference  to  the  plea  of 
self-defence,  he  is,  in  effect,  allowed  to  prove  that  the  accused  made  a 
statement  whieh  was  different  from  and  inconsistent  with  the  defence 
which  he  afterwards  set  up.  Proof  of  such  a  statement  is  something 
more  than  evidence  of  conduct  under  §  8  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance. 

Per  Peveira,  J.  It  is  I  think  clear  that  if  evidence  of  an  actual 
statement  suggesting  an  inference  adverse  to  the  accused  is  inadmissible 
a  fortiori  would  evidence  be  inadmissible  which  in  a  way  is  descriptive 
of  a  statement  and  which  carries  with  it  the  insinuation  that  an  excul- 
patory circumstance  relied  on  by  the  accused  for  his  defence  was  no  part 
of  his  statement. 

Per  Ennis,  J.—'io  allow  evidence  by  a  police  officer  of  the  substance 
of  a  statement  made  to  him  by  an  accused  from  which  incriminating 
circumstances  may  be  inferred,,  would  I  consider,  be  contrary  to  the 
intention  of  §  25. 

Deunis  v.  Peeri-i  Apjm^  followed. 

Imperatrix  ,:  Pandhannath^ ;  Queen  Empre.s  ,.  Jamckwraam' ■ 
Qiieen  Empress  v.  Mathews*;  Empress  r.  Blhi  Prasad'  referred  to. 

Elliot  (with  B.  F.  de  Silva  and  Gurusivaniy)  for  accus- 
ed.—The  evidence  of  the  headman  was  inadmissible  and 
shouhl  have  been  ruled  out.  In  effect  the  prosecution  pro'ved  a 
confession  made  by  the  accused  to  a  police  officer.  YLascelles 
0.  J.    It  was  a  statement  made  as  a  self -exculpatory  excuse!] 

1.  7  Tamh.  28.  s.     I.  L.  R  19  Bom    ?«« 

2.  I.  L.  B.  6  Bom  S4.         4.    I.  L.B.loS^-lS 

5.    I.  L.  R,  6  Cal.  530. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  63 

Such   an  excuse  may  amount  to  a  confession.    (See  Reg  v.       King 

PandhariiiafJi^;    Ameer  Ali  on  Evidenre  p.  4S5.)     Even  if  k^Iu  Banda. 

the  point    was   raised  in   cross-eximination  the   prosecution 

had   no   right  to  explain  it  in  re-examination  by  eliciting  an       °c  J.**' 

incriminating  statement  by  the  accused.   (See  Queen  Empress 

V.  Matheivs^).  \_Lasr,ellfls,  C.J.  The  actual  statement  made  by 

the  accused  was  not  admitted.]     But  what  he  did   not  say 

was  admitted.     That  must  have  had  a  bad  effect  on  the  jury, 

otherwisethe  accused  would  not  have  been   convicted.     The 

statements  suggested  the  inference  that  the  defence  set  up  at 

the  trial  was  false,  and  consequently   that  the   accused   had 

committed    the   offence   of    which   he   was    charged.     Such 

■A  statement  is   not   admissible   in   evidence.    (See  DeiDiis  v. 

Peeris  Ap2)u^.) 

Baiva,  K.  C,  A.S.-G.,  for  the  Crown. — The  evidence  is 
not  exprei-sly  excluded  by  the  Ordinance.  The  statement 
that  the  accused  did  not  say  a  particular  thing  is  not  evidence 
of  a  confession.  It  is  not  evidence,  oral  or  documentary  ; 
if  at  all,  it  is  evidence  of  conduct.  In  the  cases  cited  the  actual 
statement  made  were  elicited  from  the  witnesses,  whereas  in 
this  case  that  was  not  done.  The  negation  of  a  statement  is 
not  an  admission.  \JEnnig,  J.  If  you  cannot  prove  the  actual 
words,  surely  you  cannot  prove  the  effect  of  them.J  Suppose 
the  accused  gave  evidence,  and  stated  that  the  deceased  came 
at  him  with  a  knife,  surely  we  would  have  been  entitled  to 
contradict  him.  \_Pereira,  J.  Not  by  inadmissible  evi- 
dence.] This  evidence  is  clearly  admissible  as  evidence  of 
conduct  under  §  8  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance. 

c.  a.  V. 

Lascelles,  C,  J. — This  is  a  question  with  regard  to  the 
admissibility  of  evidence  which  has  been  reserved  for  the 
decision  of  this  Court  under  §  .^55  of  the  Criminal  Procedure 
Code.  The  circumstances  upon  which  the  question  has 
arisen   are  fully   set   out  in  the  case   stated  by  my  brother 

1      I  L.B.IO  Cat.  1022.        2,    I.  L.  R.  6  Bom-.  34. 
3.     7  Tami.  28. 


64  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

King  Wood  Renton,  and  it  is  only  necessary  here  to  refer  to  them 
KaluBanda.  briefly.  The  accused  was  convicted  of  causing  grievous  hurt 
to  one  Balahamy.  The  defence  set  up  by  the  accused  in  his 
C.  J.  ^'  Ptatutory  declaration  in  the  Police  Court,  and  also  in  the 
Supreme  Court,  was  that  he  had  struck  Balahamy  with  a 
mammoty,  but  that  he  had  done  so  whilst  defending  himself 
against  an  attack  which  Balahamy  was  making  upon  him 
with  a  knife.  The  question  which  we  have  to  determine 
arose  in  connection  with  the  statements  which  the  accused 
made  to  the  police  headmen  shortly  after  Balahamy  was 
injured.  Counsel  for  the  Crown  asked  the  headmen  whether 
the  accused  had  made  a  statement  to  them.  The  answer  to 
this  question  was  in  the  affirmative.  He  then  proposed  to 
prove  that  although  the  accused  had  made  a  statement  to 
the  headmen  he  had  not  in  that  statement  charged  Balahamy 
with  having  attacked  or  threatened  to  attack  him  with  a 
knife,  or  made  any  reference  to  the  use  of  a  mammoty  by 
himself.  Objection  having  been  made  to  questions  having 
this  purpose  in  view,  the  objection  was  over-ruled,  and  Crown 
Counsel  elicited  from  the  headmen  that  the  accused  in  his 
statement  had  not  said  that  Balahamy  had  attacked  or 
threatened  him  with  a  knife  or  that  the  accused  himself  had 
used  a  mammoty.  The  learned  Judge  was  of  opinion  that 
the  failure  of  the  accused  to  disclose  to  the  headmen  the 
grounds  of  his  ultimate  defence  must  have  influenced  the 
jury  in  arriving  at  their  verdict  of  guilty  ;  and  he  suggested 
that  if  his  view  as  to  the  admissibility  of  the  evidence  in 
question  was  held  to  be  incorrect  the  conviction  should  be 
set  aside  and  the  accused  acquitted. 

Mr.  Elliot  for  the  appellant  contended  that  under  §  25 
the  Evidence  Ordinance  1895  the  headmen,  who  are  admit- 
tedly police  officers,  should  not  have  been  allowed  to  prove 
the  omission  of  the  accused  to  set  up  the  defence  on  which 
he  relied  in  the  Police  Court.  §  25  enacts  that  "No  confession 
"made  to  police  officer  shall  be  proved  as  against  a  person 
"accused  of  any  offence."  By  §  17  (2)  a  confession  is  defined 
to  be  "an  admission  made  at  any  time  by  a   person   accused 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  65 

"of  an  offence  stating  or  suggesting  the  inference  that  he  has        King 

"committed  that  offence."     By  the  preceding  sab-section   an  g^^ju  Banda. 

admission  is  defined  to  be  "a  statement,  oral  or  documentary, 

"which  suggests  any  inference   as  to   any   fact  in   issue   or        c.  J.   ' 

"relevant  fact  which  is  made  by  any  of  the  persons  and  under 

"the  circumstances  hereinafter  mentioned". 

The  question  then  which  we  have  to  determine  is, 
whether  the  evidence  which  the  headmen  were  allowed  to 
give  was  evidence  of  an  admission  made  by  the  accused 
stating  or  suggesting  the  inference  that  he  had  committed 
the  offence  with  which  he  was  charged. 

The  case  for  the  Crown  is  that  evidence  that  the  accused 
was  silent  with  regard  to  his  plea  of  self  defence  was  not 
evidence  of  "a  statement,  oral  or  documentary",  by  the  accus- 
ed ;  and  it  was  further  contended  that  what  the  accused  said 
to  the  headmen  did  not  amount  to  a  confession. 

It  seems  to  me  that  when  the  headmen  were  allowed  to 
prove  that  the  accused,  shortly  after  the  offence  was  commit- 
ted, made  a  statement  to  them  and  that  in  that  statement  he 
made  no  reference  to  the  plea  of  self  defence,  they  were  in 
effect  allowed  to  prove  that  the  accused  made  a  statement 
which  was  different  from  and  inconsistent  with  the  defence 
which  he  afterwards  set  up.  I  cannot  regard  this  as  admissi- 
ble under  §  8.  It  is  of  course  in  one  sense  evidence  of  con- 
duct. But  it  is  more  than  that.  It  is  evidence  of  part  of  the 
substance  of  the  statement,  for  the  value  of  a  statement  by 
an  accused  person,  in  some  cases,  depends  on  what  the 
accused  omitted  to  say  not  less  than  on  what  he  said.  The 
effect  on  the  mind  of  the  jury  could  hardly  have  been 
different  if  the  headmen  had  been  allowed  to  give  evidence 
of  what  the  accused  had  actually  said.  But  then  arises  the 
question  whether  what  the  accused  said  to  the  headmen 
amounts  to  an  admission,  whether  it  stated  or  suggested  the 
inference  that  the  accused  had  committed  that  offence.  It  is 
true  that  if  regard  is  had  to  the  object  with  which  the  state- 
ment was  made  it  cannot  be  regarded  as  an  admission  ;  for 
nothing   was  further  from  the  mind  of  the  accused  than  to 


m  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Kinp  make  anj-  admission  of  his  guilt.  On  this  point  we  were 
Kalu  Banda  referred  to  Bever:il  Indian  decisions  to  the  effect  that  state- 
ments made  by  accused  peruons   to  police  officers   although 

C  J.  '  intended  to  be  made  in  self  exculpation  and  not  as  a  confes- 
sion may  nevertheless  amount  t>  an  admission  of  incrimi- 
nating circumstances  and  so  be  capable  of  proof  under  the 
section  of  the  Indian  Pjvidence  Ordinance,  which  corresponds 
to  §  25  of  the  Ceylon  Ordinance,  {yide  ImperatrLr  v. 
Pandharinath  '  ;  Queen  Empress  v.  Janecharam  -  ;  Queen 
Empress  v  Mathews  ■'*.) 

We  were  also  referred  to  the  decision  of  Hutchinson,  C.J., 
in  D'vnis  v.  Peris  Apjiu  reported  in  VII.  'lambyah  28.  In 
that  case  the  accused  was  charged  with  being  in  posssssion 
a  stolen  cow  and  a  constable  was  allowed  to  depose  that  the 
accused,  when  asked  by  him  whose  the  cow  was,  stated  that 
it  was  his  own  and  that  he  l)OUght  it  some  years  ago.  It  was 
there  held  that  this  statement,  although  made  without  any 
Intention  of  making  a  confession  of  guilt,  was  an  admission 
within  §  17  (I)  inasmuch  as  it  suggested  an  inference  as  to  the 
material  fact  that  the  accused  was  in  possession  of  the  cow. 

After  hearing  the  arguments  of  counsel  and  referring  to 
the  cases  which  were  cited  in  argument,  I  am  of  opinion  that 
when  the  headmen  were  allowed  to  prove  the  facts  that  the 
accused  had  made  statements  to  them  and  that  he  had  not  in 
these  statements  set  up  the  plea  of  self  defence,  the  headmen 
were  allowed  to  give  evidence  of  what  was  in  substance  a 
confession  by  the  accused.  They  were  allowed  indirectly  to 
disclose  part  at  least  of  the  substance  of  the  accused's  state- 
ment, the  effect  of  this  disclosure  being  such  as  to  suggest 
the  inference  that  the  defence  on  which  the  accused  relied 
was  not  set  up  by  him  at  the  time  when,  if  true,  it  would 
naturally  have  been  set  up,  and  that  it  was  theiefore  false. 

If  regard  he  had  to  the  intention  and  object  of  the  legis- 
lature in  enacting  §  25  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance,  I  think 
the  conclusion  must  be  the  same. 

1.     6  Bom.  34.  2.     19  Bom.  366. 

3.     10  Cal.  1022. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  67 

It   was   recognised   that  police  officers  in  Ceylon,  as  in        King 
India,  are  not  always  proof  against  the  temptation  of   depos-  g^lu  Banda. 
ing  that  the  accused  made  some  statement  the  effect  of  which 
is  to  strengthen  the  case  for  the  prosecntiim  or   to  clinch  the 
ch-irge  against  the  accused. 

In  order  to  prevent  this  abuse,  and  in  view  of  the  diffi- 
culty of  testing  the  truth  of  statements  made  to  police  officers, 
the  legislature  had  recourse  to  drastic  meiins,  and  declared 
that  no  confessions  made  to  a  police  officer  shall  be  proved 
as  against  accused  persons.  But  if  police  officers  are  allowed 
to  go  into  the  box  and  say  "the  accused,  soon  after  the  crime, 
"made  a  statement  to  me  but  in  that  statement  he  said  not 
"one  word  of  the  defence  he  set  up  before  the  Magistrate," 
the  object  of  the  legislature  will  be  to  some  extent  frustrated  ; 
police  officers  will  be  allowed  in  effect  to  exercise  a  power 
which  the  legislature  considered  could  not  be  safely  entrusted 
to  them.  For,  so  far  as  the  probative  effect  of  the  evidence 
is  concerned,  there  is  a  little  difference  between  a  police 
officer  giving  the  particulars  of  a  statement  which  is  incon- 
sistent with  the  defence  and  his  stating  in  general  terms  that 
the  accused,  in  his  statement  to  him,  did  not  mention  the 
defence  which  he  afterwards  set  up. 

The  evidence  in  either  case  tells  heavily  against  the 
accused.     In  many  cases  it  will  turn  the  scale  against  him. 

For  the  above  reasons  I  am  of  opinon  that  the  headmen 
should  not  have  been  allowed  to  give  the  evidence  in  question  ; 
and  in  view  of  paragraph  6  of  the  case  I  would  set  aside  the 
conviction  of  the  accused  and  direct  him  to  be  acquitted. 

Pereira,  J. — The  accused  was  on  his  trial  for  having 
voluntarily  caused  grievous  hurt  to  one  Balahamy,  or,  possi- 
bly, for  a  higher  offence,  as  a  result  of  his  having  caused 
such  hurt :  and  the  prosecution  proved  that  the  accused  had 
made  a  certain  statement  to  a  police  officer,  and  that  in  that 
statement  he  had  not  charged  Baluhamy  with  having  attack- 
ed or  threatened  to  attack  him  with  a  knife  or  mentioned 
that  he  himself  had   struck   Balahamy    with   a   mammoty. 


68  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

King       The  aceuseil's  defence,  as  it  appeared  in   his  statutory   state- 

Kalu  Banda.  Dient  made  before  the  Police  Court,  was  that  he  had  acted  in 

self  defence   in   striking   Balahamy   with  a  mammoty,  inas- 

Pd*ciir&    J 

'  '  much  as  Balahamy  was  about  to  attack  him  with  a  knife. 
Presumably,  the  statement  that  the  accused  is  alleged  to  have 
made  to  the  police  officer  was  a  statement  explanatory  of  the 
cause  of  injury  on  Balahamy,  and  the  question  is  whether 
evidence  was  properly  admitted  of  the  part  that  a  statement 
had  been  made  by  the  accused  and  that  in  it  he  had  not  said 
that  he  was  about  to  be  attacked  by  Balahamy  with  a  knife 
or  that  he  himself  had  struck  Balahamy  with  a  mammoty. 
Now,  the  jury  had  before  it  evidence,  led  by  the  prosecution, 
to  shew  that  the  accused  had  struck  Balahamy  with  a  mam- 
moty. If,  in  view  of  that  fact,  they  treated  as  significant 
only  that  portion  of  the  police  officer's  evidence  in  which  it 
appeared  that  the  accused  had  omitted  in  his  statement  to 
the  police  officer  to  say  that  he  was  about  to  be  attacked  by 
Balahamy,  and  drew  from  that  omission  the  inference  that 
the  accused  was  not  attacked  by  Balahamy  with  a  knife,  then 
the  police  officer's  evidence  would,  in  effect,  have  wiped  out 
the  only  exculpatory  circumstance  in  the  statutory  statement 
made  by  the  accused  leaving  that  statement  as  an  unquali- 
fied admission  of  the  fact  that  the  accused  had  struck  Bala- 
hamy with  a  mammoty.  This  is  a  contingency  which,  1 
think,  may  legitimately  be  taken  into  account  in  the  present 
case.  In  the  circumstances  mentioned  above,  did  §  25  of  the 
Evidence  Ordinance  apply  ?  The  Acting  Solicitor-General 
argued,  in  the  first  place,  that  there  was  no  evidence  of  any 
actual  statement  made  by  the  accused  ;  and,  in  the  next  place, 
the  evidence  of  the  police  officer  did  not  amount  lo  evidence 
of  any  confession  by  the  accused.  The  term  "confession"  is 
defined  in  our  Evidence  Ordinance  ;  but  it  is  left  undefined  in 
the  Indian  Evidence  Act,  with  the  result  that,  in  India,  in 
more  than  one  case,  it  was  given  a  strict  interpretation.  In 
Tlw  Queen  v.  MacdunaJd  '  and  The  Empress  v.  Debi  Prasad^ 
it  was  held  that  there  was  a  distinction  in  the  Act  between 
admissions   and   confessions  ;   and  that   unless  a   statement 

1.     10B.L.R.2.         2.     6Cal.580. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  69 

amounted  to  an  outright  confession,  it  would  be  receivable  ii. 
evidence.     Field,   in  his  book   on   the   law   of  Evidence  in  ^^^^  Banda. 
British   India,   cites   later  cases,   and   observes  (page    14.3)  : 
"From  these  rulings  it  would  seem  doubtful  whether  Quern  ' 

"V.  Mucdmiald  and  Empress  v  Dehi  Prasad  should  now  be 
"followed."  There  are  still  later  decisions  in  which  the 
Indian  Courts  would  appear  to  have  given  the  term  "con- 
fession" the  meaning  given  to  it  in  the  definition  in  Stephen's 
Digest  of  the  law  of  Evidence,  and  that  definition  apjiears  in 
its  entirety  in  §  17  (2)  of  oar  Evidence  Ordinance.  Omitting 
parts  immateriiil  to  the  present  question,  it  may  be  said  that 
§  17  enacts  that  an  admission  is  a  statement  which  suggests 
any  inference  as  to  any  fact  in  issue  or  relevant  fact,  and  a 
confession  is  an  admission  made  by  a  person  accused  of  an 
offence  suggesting  the  inference  that  he  committed  that 
ofiEence.  Now,  it  was  argued  that,  in  the  present  case, 
evidence  was  not  given  of  any  specific  statement  made  by 
the  accused,  and  that,  therefore,  §  25  did  not  apply.  The 
evidence  led  was  to  the  effect  that  the  accused  had  made  a 
statement,  and  that,  in  that  statement,  there  was  no  mention 
of  the  fact  that  he  himself  had  been  attacked  by  Balahamy. 
It  is,  I  think,  clear  that  if  evidence  of  an  actual  statement 
suggesting  an  inference  adverse  to  the  accused  is  inadmissi- 
ble, a  furtiurl  would  evidence  be  inadmissible  which,  in  a 
way,  is  merely  descriptive  of  a  statement,  and  which  carries 
with  it  the  insinuation  that  an  exculpatoi-y  circumstance 
relied  on  by  the  accused  for  his  defence  was  no  part  of  that 
statement.  The  greater  includes  the  less.  In  the  present 
case  the  jury  had  before  it  the  statutory  statement  made  by 
the  accused  in  which  he  had  shown  that  his  defence  was  that 
he  had  acted  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  private  defence 
of  the  person.  The  evidence  in  question  in  this  case  was 
calculated  to  have  on  the  mind  of  the  jury  the  effect  of  eli- 
minating from  the  statutory  statement  of  the  accused  the 
only  circumstance  he  relied  on  in  that  statement  as  a  defence, 
namely,  the  circumt-tance  that  he  himself  had  been  attacked. 
The  evidence  was  as  much  open  to  objection  as  it  would 
have  been  had  it  been  evidence  of  the  actual  contents  of  the 


70  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

King       statement  alleged  to  have  been  made  by  the  accused  to  the 

Kalu  ^Banda.  POlice  officer. 

Ennis,  Another  view  that   might  be  taken  is  that  the  evidence 

given  by  the  police  officer  was  tantamount  to  evidence  of  a 
statement  bj-  the  accused  to  the  effect  that  Balahamy  did  riot 
attempt  to  attack  him  with  a  knife. 

I  think  that  the  principles  on  which  the  exclusion  of 
evidence  of  outright  confessions  is  based  have  equal  applica- 
tion to  the  exclusion  contended  for  in  the  present  case. 

As  regards  §  8  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance,  I  need  only 
say  that  although  evi<lence  of  conduct  may  be  led  under  that 
section,  the  evidence  should  be  such  as  would  not  contravene 
the  provisions  of  any  other  section  of  the  Ordinance. 

In  view  of  the  above,  and  of  what  is  stated  by  my  brother 
Wood  Renton  in  the  tith  paragraph  of  his  statement  of  facts, 
I  think  that  the  conviction  should  be  set  asiile  and  the  accus- 
ed acquitted. 

Ennis,  J. — In  this  case  evidence  by  a  police  officer  was 
admitted  that  the  accused  hud  made  a  statement  to  him 
which  differed  from  a  statement  made  by  the  accused  to  the 
Police  Magistrate. 

Section  25  of  the  Evdence  Ordinance  says  "no  con- 
"fession  made  to  a  police  officer  shall  be  proved  as  against  a 
"person  accused  of  any  offence". 

It  is  conceded  that  under  this  section  it  was  not  open 
to  the  prosecution  to  prove  any  statement  made  by  an  accused 
to  a  police  officer  relating  to  circumstances  which  would 
incriminate  the  accused. 

To  allow  evidence  by  a  police  officer  of  the  subst.ince  of 
a  statement  made  to  him  by  an  accused  from  which  incrimi- 
nating circl^mstance8  may  be  inferred  would,  I  consider,  be 
contrary  to  the  intention  of  §  25.  For  if  the  statement  really 
were  an  admission  of  some  incriminating  circumstance  it 
could  not   be  proved,   and,  if  not   such  an  admission,  and 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  71 

therefore  not  a  confession  defined  by  §  17  (2)  of  the  Evidence 
Ordinance,  no  inference  incriminating  the  accused  CDuld 
safely  be  drawn  from  the  statement  or  from  the  substance 
of  it. 

The  police  officer's  eyiilence  was  to  the  efte'-t  that  a 
statement  made  by  the  accused  differed  from  one  made  to 
the  Magistrate,  and,  in  my  opinion,  leads  to  an  inference  that 
accused  had  made  a  "confession".  The  evidence  I  consider 
went  further  than  mere  evidence  of  conduct.  Moreover  I 
think  it  would  not  be  admissible  as  evidence  of  conduct 
under  section  8  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance.  Explanation  1 
of  that  section  seems  to  me  to  preclude  it.  In  this  case  it 
would  be  evidence  of  conduct  from  a  statement  by  showing 
what  the  statement  did  not  contain. 

I  therefore  consider  the  evidence  relating  to  the  nature 
of  the  statement  made  by  the  accused  in  this  case  to  the  police 
officer  was  inadmissible. 

I  would  acquit  the  accused. 


MOHAMEDBHOY   et  al.    v.   MOHAMADU    LEBBE 
MARIKAR   et  al. 

No.  24,875,  D.  C,  Colombo. 

Present:  Lascelles,  G.  J.  &  do  Sampafo,  J. 

22nd  July,  1912. 

Fidei-atmmissnni — FiscaVs  sale  ofjidei  commissanfs  interest  during  life- 
time of  fitluciiu-iiis — expectant  or  eontingent  interest— rohintary  salehyjidei 
cniiimissarij— subsequent  death  of  fiduciariiis— whether  title  enures— e.rcep- 
tio  rei  re.ndita-  et  traditce— estoppel— registration  of  deed— fraud— remedy 
of  party  defrauded  hy  retidor-  Civil  Procedure  Code  §  21S  (li)—Ordi- 
nanceyo.7ofl840^2. 

During  the  lifetime  of  the  fiduciary  the  interest  of  a  fidei-commis- 
SMV  in  property  subject  to  a  fidei  comniissitm  is  an  expectancy  of  eucces- 
eion  by  survivorship  within  the  meaning  of  §  218  (k)  of  the  Civil  Pro- 
cedure Code,  and  is  not  capable  of  seizure  and  sale. 


72 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Luthingtnn  v.  Samarasinghe  '  distinguished. 


Mohamed- 
bhoy  et  al.  ..  ,     ,  i. 

V.  Where  a  fidei  commissary  sells  such  an  interest  title  does  not  enure 

Mohamadu    ^^  ^j^^  purchaser  on  the  death  of  the  fiduciary,  and  a  purchaser  subsequent 
to  the  death  of  the  fiduciary  has  a  superior  title. 

The  plea  of  f.ixe.ptio  ret  reitditrf  et  traditce  is  not  available  to  a 
party  who  has  never  been  in  possession,  and  though  it  is  available  against 
a  vendor  it  is  not  available  against  a  subsequent  purchaser  from  the 
vendor. 

Alwis  V.  Fernando  ''■  followed. 

Per  Lascelles,  C.  J.— 11  the  5th  defendant,  when  he  purchased,  failed 
to  seirch  i  h«  register  or  bought  the  share  notwithstanding  the  registra- 
tion, he  accepted  a  serious  risk  ;  but  I  fail  to  see  that  he  is  in  the  same 
position  as  a  vendor  who  when  he  has  no  title  to  give,  and  subsequently 
when  he  has  obtained  title,  repudiates  the  sale  and  sets  up  his  newly 
acquired  title  against  the  purchaser. 

Per  de  Snmpayo,  J. — The  only  remedy  of  the  party  defrauded  is  to 
sue  for  damages  against  the  vendor. 

This  is  a  partition  action.  Lawrens  Gomis,  the  original 
owner  of  the  premises  sought  to  be  partitioned,  died  leading 
a  last  will  whereby  he  bequeathed  and  devised  the  said 
premises  to  his  son  Lawrens  Gomis  (jr.)  subject  to  a  fidei 
commissum  in  favour  of  his  children.  Lawi  ens  Gomis  (jr.) 
died  on  the  11th  June,  1900,  leaving  two  children,  Lily  Gomis 
(Ist  plaintiff)  and  Benjamin  Gomis  (1st  defendant)  and  the 
following  grand-children,  Caroline  Elizabeth  Gomis,  the  only 
surviving  child  of  a  deceased  daughter  Petronella  Geraldine 
Gomis,  and  the  2ad,  3rd,  and  4th  defendants,  the  children  of 
another  deceased  daughter,  Johaima  Gomis.  The  contest  was 
between  the  5th  and  13th  defendants-respondents  on  the  one 
side  and  the  intervenients-appellants  on  the  other  side  as 
regards  the  shares  of  Caroline  Elizabeth  and  Benjamin  Gomis. 
The  5th  defendant  claimed  to  be  entitled  to  Caroline's  life- 
interest  in  an  undivided  J  share  of  the  land  by  the  following 
claim  of  title.  Caroline  Elizabeth,  after  the  death  of  her 
grandfather  Lawrens  Gomis,  by  deed  No.  8,053  dated  23rd 
June,  1900,  transferred  her  interest  in  the  land  to  one  Manuel 

I.     {181^7)  S  N.  L.  K.  S95.        8.     {1911)  14  N.  L.  B.  92. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  7i5 

(le  Silva.     Manuel   de   Silva,  by  deed   No.  8,054  dated  23rd    Mohamed- 

June,  1900,  sold  the  same  to  Abdul  Caffoor,  who  in  turn,  by         v. 

deed   No.  10,541   dated  the  1st   October,  1900,  transferred  it    Mohamadu 

'  Lebbe. 

to  the  5th  defendant.     The  13th  defendant  claimed  Benjamin 

Gomis'  life  interest  in  an  undivided  |  share  by  deed  of  trans- 
fer No.  1,334  dated  15th  November,  1902,  executed  in  his 
favour  by  Benjamin  Gomis. 

The  intervenients  claimed  Caroline  Elizabeth's  share  in 
the  following  manner.  Caroline  Elizabeth, by  deed  No.  1,257 
dated  17th  April,  1897,  before  the  death  of  Lawrens  Gomis 
(jr.),  transferred  her  life-interest  to  Carimjee  Jafferjee,  who 
conveyed  the  same  by  deed  to  Alibhoy,  who  in  turn  convey- 
ed it  to  the  intervenients.  The  deed  of  1897  was  duly  regis- 
tered. They  claimed  Benjamin  Gomis'  share  thus : — In 
execution  of  a  decree  obtained  against  Benjamin  Gomis  his 
interest  was  sold  and  purchased  by  Palaniappa  Chetty  under 
Piscal's  transfer  No.  6,103,  dated  23rd  September,  18.^5,  and 
registered  on  the  30th  May,  1896.  Palaniappa  Chetty  con- 
veyed his  interest  to  Carimjee  Jafferjee  who  in  turn  conveyed 
it  to  the  intervenients. 

The  parties  went  to  trial  on  the  following  issues  : — 

1.  Under  transfer  No.  1 ,201  did  title  to  a  J  of  the  premis. 
es  in  question  vest  in  Carimjee  Jafferjee  on  the  death  of 
Lawrens  Gomis  (jr.)  ? 

2.  Under  Fiscal's  transfer  No.  6,103  did  title  to  a  |  of 
the  premises  in  question  vest  in  Carimjee  Jafferjee  on  the 
death  of  Lawrens  Gomis  (jr.)  ? 

3.  Are  the  5th  and  13th  defendants  estopi)ed  from 
questioning  the  title  of  the  intervenients  (on  account  of  the 
registration  of  the  hitter's  deeds)  '^ 

4.  Prescriptive  rights  of  5th  and  13th  defendants.  (It 
was  admitted  that  the  inteivenients  never  had  possession.) 

The  learned  District  Judge  held  that  Caroline  and 
Benjamin    Gomis   (1st  defendant)  had  nothing  more  than  an 


74 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Mohamed- 

Mhoj  etaJ. 

T. 

Mohamadu 
tebbe. 


xpectancy  of  succession  by  survivorship,  and  that  neither 
Caroline  nor  1st  defendant  had  any  interest  which  they  could 
dispose  of  or  was  capable  of  being  seized  and  sold  by  the  Fiscal. 
He  further  held  that  on  the  death  of  Lawrens  Gomis  (jr.) 
the  position  of  the  intervenients'  predecessors  in  title  was 
in  no  way  improved  in  the  absence  of  same  deed  of  confirm- 
ation or  other  deed  being  executed  by  Caroline  Gomis  and 
the  1st  defendant  in  favour  of  Carimjee  Jafferjee  after  the 
death  of  Lawrens  Gomis  (jr.),  and  he  accordingly  dismissed 
the  intervenients'  claim  with  costs.     They  appealed. 

Sameri'U'ichranu'  (with  Cooray)  for  the  intervenients- 
appellants  : — On  the  death  of  the  fiduciary  title  enured  to  the 
appellants,  and  our  title  must  prevail  over  that  of  the  5th 
respondent.  (See  Jjmvirk's  VocI  542.)  A  fresh  deed  was 
not  necessary  to  give  us  title,  because  in  this  case  title  passed 
not  by  convention  but  by  operation  of  law.  Ordinance  No.  7 
of  1840  only  applies  to  transfers  by  convention.  This 
principle  has  been  applied  to  cases  of  trust.  {See  Ibrahim 
Saibo  V,  0.  B.  C.^)  If  Caroline  Elizabeth  would  have  been 
precluded  from  setting  up  title  against  her  vendor  or  his 
successors  in  title  \_Quruhami  v.  Subaseris-]  surely  a  sub- 
sequent purchaser  would  also  be  precluded.  An  estoppel 
binds  parties  and  their  privies,  and  at  the  time  of  the  pur- 
chase the  5th  defendant-respondent  must  have  been  aware  of 
the  transfer  in  favour  of  our  predecessor,  inasmuch  as  the 
deed  in  his  favour  was  duly  registered. 

As  regards  the  contest  between  the  appellants  and  the 
13th  defendant,  the  case  of  Lushingtnn  v.  Samarasinghe^ 
is  conclusive.  The  interest  of  the  fidei  commissary  was  not 
a  "contingent  interest".  Once  the  will  began  to  speak  the 
rights  of  the  various  parties  became  effectually  fixed. 

Batva,  K.  G.  (with  F.  M.  de  Sarmn  &  E.  O.  P.  Jayetileke) 
for  the  5th  defendant-respondent : — The  exceptio  rd  vendita> 
W  traditw  is  available  only  to  a  person  who  has  had  posses- 
sion and  to  whom  there  has  been  a  delivery  of  the  thing  sold. 

/.  {1900)  S  N.  L.  R.  148.  3.  {1910)  13  N.  L.  E.  US. 

3.  {1897)  8  N.  L.  B,  295, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


75 


(See  Epj-wick's  Vurt  p.  542.)  The  deed  in  favour  of  theappel-    Mohamed- 
lants'  predecessor  in  title  is   in   effect  nothing  more  than  an       "^ ' 
agreement  to  sell.     The  deed   in  our  favour  has  not  been  set  Mohamadu 
aside,  and  we  still  remain   owners.     The   case   of  Alicls   v. 
Fernamlo^  is  on  all  fours  with  the  present  case.  La»celles, 

H.  J.  0.  Pnrira  (with  F.  M.  de  Saram)  for  the  13th 
defendant-respondent.  The  case  of  Lushington  v.  Samara- 
singlw-  is  ua  authority  in  my  favour.  It  was  a  case  of  usu- 
fruct, and  therefore  there  was  a  vested  saleable  interest. 
Under  §  218  "a  hope  of  succession"  cannot  be  seized  and 
sold. 

Sai)ieri'ivicln-aine  in  reply.  The  exception  rpi  veudifat 
r/  fraditce  has  the  effect  of  repelling  the  claim  of  a  subse- 
quent alienee  [(Ir  Sampaiiii,J. — Would  that  apply  to  a  person 
purchasing  oneroso  titido  ?]  It  would.  (See  Berwick  p.  533.) 
In  Lufthiiigton  v.  Sainaraai nghe- ,  Lawrie,  J.,  argued  on  the 
footing  that  there  was  no  vested  interest  in  the  judgment- 
debtor.   A  "spes  Buccessionis"  canbe  sold.   (See  Foe<  18-1-13.) 

Lascelles,  G.  J. — It  is  unnecessary  to  recapitulate  the 
facts  with  reference  to  the  appellant's  intervention,  which  are 
fully  dealt  with  in  the  judgment  of  the  learned  District  .Judge. 
The  intervention  relates  to  two  ^  shares,  namely  :  (1)  the  share 
which  devolved  on  Benjamin  Gomis,  the  1st  defendant,  under 
his  grandfather's  will,  which  share  is  now  claimed  by  the 
13th  defendant  by  purchase  from  the  1st  defendant ;  and  (2) 
the  share  which  devolved  on  Caroline  (a  great  grand- 
daughter of  the  testator)  under  the  same  will,  which  share  is 
now  claimed  by  the  5th  defendant  under  a  series  of  deeds 
beginning  with  a  conveyance  from  Caroline  dated  the  23rd 
June,  1901,  at  which  date  both  her  mother  and  grandfather 
were  dead. 

The  claim  of  the  intervenients  to  the  first  of  these  shares, 
that  is  the  share  which  devolved  on  the  Ist  defendant, 
presents  no  serious  difficulty. 


1.  {1911)  14  N.  L.  R.  92.        2.  {1897)  2  N.  L.  R.  295, 


76 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 


Mohamed-  It    is    based   on     a    Fiscal's    transfer     dated    the    23rd 

Vhoy^et,,!.  ^^^^^^,33^^    ^^95^   a.^!   registered   on   the  30th  May,  1896,  in 

Mohamadu  favour  of  one  Palaniappa  Chetty,  who  conveyed  the  share   to 

Lebbe.  Qaj-imjee  Jafferjee,  who  in  turn  convejed  to    Mohamedbhoy 

Lascelles,  Allibhoy,  the  intervenient's  vendor. 

The  question  is,  whether  this  share,  in  view  of  the  provi- 
sions of  §  218  (k)  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  was  liable  to 
seizure  or  sale  in  execution  of  a  money  decree.  This  sub-head 
of  §  218  provides  that  "an  expectancy  of  succession  hy  sur- 
"vivorshipor  other  merely  contingent  or  possible  right  of  inter- 
est" is  not  liable  to  seizure  or  sale.  When  the  1st  defendant's 
share  was  sold  in  execution  his  father,  J^awrens  Gomis,  the 
younger,  the  tiduciariiis  under  the  will,  was  still  living  ;  so 
that  the  interest  of  the  1st  defendant  was  expectant  on  his 
surviving  his  father,  and  the  extent  of  the  share  which  the 
Fiscal's  transfer  purported  to  convey  was  not  ascertainable 
at  the  date  of  that  instrument.  If  other  children  had  been 
born  to  Lawrence  Gomis,  the  younger,  after  the  date  of  the 
Fiscal's  transfer,  the  share  would  have  been  less  than  \  ;  if 
any  of  Lawrens  Gomis'  four  children  had  died  after  that 
date  without  direct  issue,  it  would  have  been  more  than  ^. 
The  interest  of  the  1st  defendant  in  my  opinion  falls  within 
the  language  of  §  218  (k)  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

The  interveuients-appellants  rely  on  the  judgment  of 
Lawrie,  J.,  in  Lushingtan  v.  Saiiiar((sin<ilie' ;  but  the  facts  in 
that  case  were  widely  different.  It  was  a  case  of  a  deed  of 
gift,  not  of  a  will,  which  it  was  held  created  no  tidei  winmi.f- 
auin.  The  ratio  decidendi,  as  appears  from  the  judgment  of 
Lawrie,  J.,  as  well  as  from  that  of  Withers,  J.,  was  that  the 
true  effect  of  the  deed  was  to  give  the  donees  a  present  right 
or  immediate  interest  in  the  property,  and  that  there  was 
nothing  expectant  or  contingent  about  the  gift.  This  deci- 
sion has  plainly  no  application  to  an  interest  such  as  that 
which  purported  to  pass  by  the  Fiscal's  sale  of  the  1st  defend- 
ant's interest. 


1.  {1897)2  N.  L.  R.  395. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  GASES. 


77 


I  am  of  opinion  that  the  interest  of   the  Ist  defendant    Mohamed 


was  not  capable  of  seizure  and  sale,  and  that  the  intervenients- 


bhoy  et  111 . 


appellants,  whose  title  depends  ou  the  validitj'  of  the  Fiscal's    Mohamadu 
transfer,  are   not  entitled  to  that  share.    With  regard  to  the 


other  1^  share,  the  intervenieut's  case  is  that  the  conveyance 
to  Uarimjee  Jafferjee,  though  made  by  Caroline  in  the  life- 
time of  her  father,  becaiae  perfect  on  the  death  of  her  father, 
ami  that  on  that  event  Carimjee  Jafferjee  obtained  a  good 
title,  which  he  has  transmitted  to  the  intervenients-appellants. 

The  5Gh  defundant-respondent's  case  is  that  inasmuch  as 
the  dominium  was  not  vested  in  Caroline  at  the  date  of  the 
conveyance  to  Carimjee  Jafferjee,  that  instrument  passed  no 
title  to  Carimjee  Jafferjee,  and  that,  in  the  absence  of  a 
further  notarial  conveyance  from  Caroline,  the  death  of 
La  wrens  Gomis,  the  younger,  in  no  way  cured  the  defect  in 
Carimjee  Jafferjee's  title. 

The  intervenients-appellants  rely  on  the  crceptin  rri 
veiiditw  I'l  tradiUc.  But  apart  from  the  question  whether 
this  plea  is  available  in  view  of  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840,  it  is 
dfticult  to  see  how  it  is  properly  applicable  in  the  present 
case.  Under  the  Roman  Dutch  Law  a  purchaser  in  posses- 
sion, if  he  were  evicted  by  his  vendor,  had  the  right 
either  to  submit  to  eviction  and  sue  his  vendor  for  damages 
or  he  might  meet  the  claim  to  evict  him  by  the  r.rcfiil in  r«/ 
vriidihi'  '■/  tr(tdil(v.  But  here  there  is  no  question  of  evict- 
ing a  purchaser  in  possession.  It  is  the  interveiiients  who 
are  themselves  setting  up  the  claim,  and  they  have  never 
been  in  possession.  It  is  thus  clear  that  the  intervenients- 
appellants  are  not  entitled  to  the  benefit  of  this  particular 
plea.  But  there  is  a  wider  question  involved,  namely, 
whether  the  intervenients-appellants  are  entitled  to  set  up 
any  sort  of  equitable  title  on  the  ground  that  Caroline  before 
she  sold  the  land  to  the  respondent's  predecessor  in  title  had 
already  sold  it  to  Carimjee  Jafferjee,  from  whom  the  inter- 
venints-appellants'  title  is  derived. 

It  may  be  admitted  that  if  Caroline  Elizabeth,  after  her 
title   had  been   perfected   by  her   grandfather's   death,  had 


Lascelles, 
C.J. 


78 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 


Mohamed- 
bhoy    rt  nh 

V. 

Mohamadu 

Lebbe. 

Lascelles. 
C.  J. 


herself  attempted  to  set  up  title  against  Carimjee  Jafferjee  or 
his  successors  in  title  she  would  have  been  precluded  from  so 
doing.  But  does  a  similar  equity  arise  as  against  the  defend- 
ants ?  A  question  almost  identical  to  this  was  discussed  and 
decided  ill  d^uru-liaiiii  v.  Siihaaen's',  which  was  decided  on 
the  principle  that  the  provisions  of  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840 
are  not  to  be  used  to  cover  fraud  or  what  is  tantamount  to 
fraud. 

In  order  for  the  intervenients-appellants  to  succeed  they 
must  show  that  the  5th  defendant-respondent  stands  on  the 
same  footing  as  regards  the  intervenients-appellants  as  Caro- 
line herself. 

In  Gn.fuhainl  v.  Siibascris '  the  estoppel  was  limited  to 
the  transaction  between  the  appellant  and  the  3rd  defendant- 
respondent,  and  it  was  held  that  the  latter  had  an  equitable 
claim  to  have  the  title  conferred  on  her  by  the  appllant  her- 
self upheld.  If  Caroline  herself  had  set  up  title  against  any 
of  the  purchasers  in  the  first  line  of  sale,  her  conduct  would 
no  doubt  have  been  dishonest  and  fraudulent,  and  she  would 
not  have  been  allowed  to  take  advantage  of  her  own  dis- 
honesty ;  but  it  is  clearly  otherwise  with  the  purchasers 
from  Caroline  in  the  second  line  of  sale  under  which  the 
5th  defendant  derives  title.  The  mere  fact  that  the  sale  to 
Carimjee  Jatferjee  was  registered  is  obviously  insufficient 
to  raise  any  equity  against  the  5th  defendant.  If  the  5th 
defendant,  when  he  purchased,  failed  to  search  the  register 
or  bought  the  share  notwithstanding  the  registration,  he 
accepted  a  serious  risk ;  but  I  fail  to  see  that  he  is  in  the  same 
position  as  a  vendor  who,  when  he  has  no  title  to  give 
and  subsequently,  when  he  has  obtained  title,  repudiates  the 
sale  and  sets  up  his  newly  acquired  title  against  his  pur- 
chaser. The  element  of  fraud  involved  in  the  latter  transac- 
tion is  wanting  in  the  purchase  by  the  5th  defendant. 

The  intervenients-appellants  also  rely  on  the  passage  in 
Viirf  21.  3. 1,  which  lays  down  the  proposition  that  where  the 

i.  {1910)  13  N.  L.  M.  112. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  79 

right   of  an  alienator  (which  was  defective  at  the  time  of  the  Mohamed- 

alienation)  is  confirmed,  the  right  of  the  alienee  is  confirmed       "\'' 

as  soon  as  the  defect  in  the  vendor's  title  is  confirmed.  Mohamadu 

Lebbe. 

The  applicability   of  this   principle  was  considered  in         j^ 

Dun    Carulis    v.  James'^.     In  that  case  the  Commissioner  of  Sampayo,  J 

Requests  held  that  when  the  vendor  got  a   full   title   to   the 

land    (which   he   had   not  at  the  time  of  the  sale)  his  rights 

enured   to   the    defendant.     But   Hutchinson,  C.  J.,  reversed 

the  decision,  holding  that  the  transfer  of  land  must  since  the 

passing   of   Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840  be  made  in  the  manner 

prescribed  by  <j  2  of  the  Ordinance  ;  and  all  that  the  plaintiff 

obtained  by  his  deed  was  a  right  to  have  a  transfer  from  his 

vendor  as  soon  as  the  latter  had  obtained    his  title   from  the 

Crown. 

This  decision  is  fatal  to  the  intervenients-appellants' 
contention  on  this  point.  In  my  opinion  the  appeal  fails,  and 
must  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

de  Sampayo,  J — I  agree  with  the  judgment  of  my 
Lord  the  Chief  Justice.  Mr.  Samarewickrame,  who  ably 
argued  the  case  for  the  appellants,  cited  Voei  SI.  3.  1,  to 
the  effect  that  where  a  vendor  had  no  title  at  the  time  of 
sale  but  afterwards  acquires  title  the  purchaser's  title  is 
confirmed  from  the  time  that  the  vendor  so  acquires  title, 
and  the  purchaser  can  by  right  of  ownership  sue  even 
third  parties  in  possession ;  and  he  thereupon  argued  that 
this  mode  of  acquisition  by  operation  of  law  was  not 
afEected  by  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840,  which  only  governed 
the  conventional  mode  of  acquiring  title  to  land.  In  illustra- 
tion of  this  he  instanced  the  case  of  a  person  who  purchases 
property  in  the  name  of  another  person  and  in  whose  favour 
a  resulting  trust  arises  notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  the 
Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840.  The  illustration  is  unhappy,  be- 
cause in  such  a  case  the  law  gives  to  the  first  person,  not  a 
direct  title  to  the  property,  but  only  a  right  of  action  founded 
on   fraud   to   compel   the   trustee  to  transfer  the  property  to 

1,     1  Cur.  L.  R.  224. 


80  COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 

Mohamed-    him,  and  gives  no  right  of  action  at  all  against  huna  fide  pur- 
bhoy  .rt  ah    chasers  from  the   trustee.     The   case  of   husband  and  wife 
Mohamadu    married   in   community  of   property   is  more  apposite.     But 
Lebbe.       matrimonial    rights   of   this   kind  are  sui  generis,  and  in  no 
de  way  bring  about  the  frauds  which   the   Ordinance    No.  7    of 

Sampayo,  J.  j^g^Q  struck  at,  and  have  always  been  recognised  by  Courts 
of  Law  without  any  reference  to  the  provisions  of  that  Ordi- 
nance. However,  it  is  not  very  clear  that  under  the  Roman 
Dutch  Law  title  really  passes  to  a  vendee  in  the  circumstances 
supposed.  The  passage  from  Voet  above  referred  to  is  from 
his  title  on  the  subject  of  the  equitable  plea  excepfio  rei 
I'enditoe  et  ti-adttce,  and  Voet  appears  to  speak  of  a  fictitious 
rather  than  a  true  ownership  passing  to  the  vendee,  who 
would  thus  have  a  sufiiuient  right  to  claim  possession  against 
the  vendor  himself  or  against  a  third  party  in  possession  by 
means,  not  of  the  vindicatory  action,  but  of  the  activ  j)uhU- 
riana  which  is  given  to  a  person  who  is  owner  only  by  legal 
fiction.  The  matter  is  made  more  clear  in  1  Nathan  379.  So 
far  as  I  can  see  Vuef  nowhere  discusses  the  question  as  to  the 
respective  rights  of  a  first  purchaser  who  purchases  before  the 
vendor  acquires  title,  and  of  a  second  purchaser  who  purchas- 
es after  that  event.  I  think  on  the  whole  that  the  Ordinance 
No.  7  of  1840  must  have  full  operation,  as  was  decided  in 
Don  Caro/is  v.  Jaiiies^,  which  again  is  in  harmony  with  the 
decision  of  the  full  Court  in  Kadirawelpulle  v.  Pina-,  which 
held  that  without  a  further  deed  from  the  vendor  after  he 
acquired  title  the  purchaser  had  no  right. 

It  was  next  argued  that  the  exceptio  rei  venditw  et 
traditce,  which  is  avaihxble  to  the  first  purchaser  against  the 
vendor  {(I'liruhaiiii/  i>.  Suhasrri.r'),  was  also  available  against 
the  second  purchaser  inasmuch  as  estoppels  bound  parties 
and  privies.  A  similar  argument  was  attempted  to  be  main- 
tained in  the  case  of  a  mortgage  and  a  sale,  but  was  repelled 
in  Ativis  V.  Fernandi)\  I  think  this  decision  applies  to  the 
present  case.  For  the  purpose  of  the  contest  between  the 
appellants  and  the  respondents  it  will  not  help  the  appellants 

1.     I  Cur.  L.  B.  824.  :?.     9  S.  P.  C.  36. 

3.     {^1910)18  N.L.R.lia,       4.     {1911)14   N.L.R.92. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  81 

to  say  that  the  respondents  are  privies  in  estate  to   Caroline    Mohamed- 

Gomis  from  whom  both  parties  claim  a  |  share.     It  must  be       °^^  '^   "  ' 

borne  in  mind  that  an  estoppel  creates  no  title  but   only  pre-  Mohamadu 

vents  the  party  bound  by  it  from  saying  that  he  had  no  title. 

In  such  a  case  as  this,  the  vendor  himself   is   debarred   from  *•« 

asserting   his  subsequently  acquired  title  against  his  vendee, 

but   if  the   property   has   also   been  transferred  by  him  to  a 

third  party,  the  vendee  cannot  set  up  title  against  such   third 

party,  and   his   only   remedy  is  damages  against  the  vendor. 

See  the   judgment   of   Brett,  in  Sinim    v.    Anglo-American 

Telegraph  Co.,^  and  Cababe  on  Estapjiel  pages  116  wnd  117. 

In  my  opinion  the  respondents  have  better  title  to  the  \ 
share  claimed  through  Caroline  Gomis.  As  regards  the  \ 
share  which  originally  belonged  to  the  Ist  defendant  and 
was  sold  against  him  in  execution,  I  think  the  respondents 
are  in  a  much  stronger  position  as  pointed  out  by  the  Chief 
Justice  in  whose  judgment  I  entirely  concur.  I  agree  that 
this  appeal  should  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellants— 7)f'  Vos  &  Gratiaen. 

Proctor  for  5th  defendant-respondent— .4.  ('.  Mohammadu. 

Proctor  for  i:Uh  defendant-respondent — C.  A.  de  Silva. 


1.     L.  R.  5  Q.  B.  D.,  806,  and  207. 


82 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 
J.  J.  DB  FONSEKA  V.  M.  A.  FERNANDO. 
No.  4827,  D.  C,  Kalutara. 
Preseitl. :   Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  Wood  Renton,  J. 

18th  November,  1912. 

Hef/ixtmfiiiii.-Liist  ii-iU  cmitinf/  u limit ij—rrxid nary  rsfiite  xuhjrrt  to 
fiicit  hiipiitlirc—non-mii.ifriit'iiiii  uf  pnihate—reg'udrat'ioii  of  oonmjnHCftiiJ 
resiihiorij  Icqiitee — adrei-xe  hitrivnts—tiicit  hijjMithrr  mid — §§  18,  17,  IS  and 
22,  Land  Rn/istriitioii  Ordinance,  1S91. 

The  plaintiff,  who  was  an  annuitant  under  the  will  of  the  testator, 
and  who  was  iu  a  former  action  declared  entitled  to  a  tacit  hypothec 
OTer  the  residuary  estate  of  the  testator,  sued  the  defendant  for  a  declara- 
tion that  a  land  purchased  by  the  latter  from  the  residuary  legatee  was 
subject  to  the  plaintiff's  hypothec.  Neither  the  probate  of  the  will 
creating  the  annuity  nor  the  tacit  hypothec  was  registered,  but  the 
defendant's  conveyance  was  registered. 

Held,  that  the  defendant's  interest  under  his  deed  is  adverse  to  that 
of  the  plaintiff  under  the  will  and  that  the  tacit  hypothec  created  by  the 
will  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff  is  void  by  reason  of  the  registration  of  the 
defendant's  conveyance. 

A  probate  of  a  will  is  a  registrable  instrument  under  §  16  of  the 
Registration  Ordinance  No.  li  of  1891,  and  the  provisions  of  the  follow- 
ing section  of  the  Ordinance  are  applicable  to  it. 

J'n-  Liixi-rlle.t,  C.  ./.■ — The  will  is  void  only  quoad  the  adverse  interest 
claimed  by  the  defendant,  that  is,  the  right  to  hold  the  laud  free  of  the 
tacit  hypothec  created  by  the  will. 

Per  Wood  Benton,  ,/,— The  right  to  recover  any  one  payment  of  an 
annuity  accrues  whenever  it  becomes  due  and  prescription  begins  to  run 
from  the  date  when  the  first  annuity  becomes  payable. 

Gnude,r   r    Dusanayahe'^  followed. 

De  Sampaya,  K.  C,  (mth  him  Couray)— for  the  appel- 
lant, conteuded  that  the  que&iion  of  regiatratioii  .lid  not  aribe 
in  a  case  of  this  kind.  There  was  nothing  which  the  appelJant 
could  have  registered.  Section  i^  does  not  apply  to  a  ■will. 
Even  if  the  probate  had  been  registered  under  §  16,  there 
would  have  been  nothing  to  indicate  that  the  property  was 
subject  to  this  tacit  hypothec.     The  interests  of  the  plaintiff 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

and  the  defendant  are  not  adverse.  Both  claim  from  the 
same  source,  and  if,  by  reason  of  non-registration,  the  will  is 
void,  the  foumlation  of  the  respondent's  claim  also  disappears. 

H.  A.  Jayawardenp,  with  A.  St.  V.  Jayaivardene,  for 
the  defendant-respondent — contended  that  the  judgment  of 
the  District  Judge  was  right.  The  probate  of  the  will  can  be 
registered  under  §  16,  and  §  22  requires  that  when  probate 
is  registered,  a  list  of  lands  belonging  to  the  estate  should 
be  produced.  §  18  permits  a  party  gaining  an  interest  or 
benefit  under  an  instrument  registrable  under  §  16  to  have 
the  same  registered.  The  appellant  gained  a  benefit  under 
the  will,  and  he  should  have  got  the  probate  registered  under 
§  18.  The  interests  of  the  parties  are  adverse.  The  plaintifiE 
is  trying  to  create  a  tacit  hypothec  over  the  defendant's  lands. 
Defendant's  claim  is  free  of  this  encumbrance — see  Gaudcr 
I'.  Dissanayake'.  The  policy  of  the  Registration  Laws  is  to 
protect  persons  in  the  position  of  the  respondent. 

On  the  question  of  prescription  also  the  defendant  is 
entitled  to  succeed.  The  defendant  has  never  paid  any 
share  of  the  annuity  and  has  been  in  possession  of  the  pro- 
perty for  over  20  years,  without  recognizing  any  right  in  the 
plaintiff. 

De  Sampayo,  K.  C,  in  reply — 

As  regards  the  question  of  prescription,  (he  District 
Judge  has  rightly  held  that  the  claim  of  the  plaintifiE  is  not 
prescribed.  So  long  as  the  annuity  was  paid  to  the  plaintiff 
by  any  one  of  the  persons  liable,  it  was  kept  alive  as  against 
all  who  purchase  the  properties  subject  to  the  annuity.  The 
obligation  was  an  indivisible  one. 

c.  a.  V. 


83 


Fonseka 

V. 

Fernando. 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


Lascelles.  C.  J. — The  plaintiff  in  this  case  is  entitled 
under  the  will  of  his  father,  the  late  Manuel  de  Fonseka  who 
died  in  1878  to  an  annuity  of  Rs.  480  ;  and  in  a  former 
action  (No.  2,832,  D.  C,  Kalutara)  it  was  decided  that,  in 
respect  of  this  annuity,  the  plaintiff  had  a  tacit  hypothec  over 


84 


Fonseka 

Fernando. 

LascelleSj 
C.J. 


COURT  OK  APPEAL  CASES. 

the  testator's  residuary  estate.  The  plaintiff  in  his  plaint 
averr^a  that  he  had  received  or  recovered  all  sums  which 
were  due  to  him  on  account  of  the  annuity  up  to  the  lllh  of 
February,  1911,  and  that  there  was  due  to  him  in  respect  of 
the  subsequent  year  the  sum  of  Rs.  480.  His  claim  is  that 
a  Ian  I  named  .Modillagaha watte,  which  the  defendant  had 
bought  in  1892  from  S  R.  Fonseka,  the  residuary  legatee, 
should  be  declared  bound  and  executable  for  payment  of  this 
sum.  The  District  Judge  has  decided  the  case  on  the  ground 
that  the  tacit  hypothec  created  by  the  will  is  void  by  reason 
of  the  registration  of  the  defendant's  deed.  I  have  come  to 
the  conclusion  that  this  decision  is  correct.  It  is  clear  in  the 
first  place  that  the  probate  of  a  will  is  a  registrable  instru- 
ment under  §  16  of  the  local  Registration  Ordinance,  1891, 
and  that,  aB  such,  it  is  an  instrument  to  which  the  provisions 
of  the  following  sections  are  applicable.  It  is  also  clear  that 
if  the  annuitant  had  registered  the  probate  of  the  will,  pro- 
ducing the  inventory  and  a  proper  description  of  the  land  in 
accordance  with  §  22,  the  defendant  if  he  had  examined  the 
register  would  have  had  notice  of  the  annuity  and  so  would 
have  received  the  protection  which  the  Ordinance  is  intended 
to  give  to  purchasers  who  register  their  deeds.  But  the  appli- 
cability of  §  17  depends  upon  whether  the  defendant  is  claim- 
ing under  his  deed  an  interest  which  is  adverse  to  that  of 
the  plaintiff  under  the  will  of  Manuel  de  Fonseka.  Apart 
from  authority  it  is  clear  to  me  that  the  defendant's  interest 
under  his  deed  is  adverse  to  that  of  the  plaintiff  under  the 
will.  The  defendant's  deed  conveyed  the  property  to  him 
without  mention  of  the  annuity  :  it  was  on  its  face  a  con- 
veyance free  from  this  encumbrance. 

The  plaintiff  claims  that  by  virtue  of  the  dispositions  of 
the  will  the  property  is  charged  with  the  payment  of  the 
annuity.  The  interests  are  thus  clearly  adverse.  The  defend- 
ant claims  the  land  free  of  the  annuity  ;  the  plaintiff  claims 
a  charge  of  the  annuity  on  the  land.  This  was  the  view 
adopted  by  the  Privy  Council  in  a  somewhat  analogous  case 
namely,  (Jauder  v.  BissanayakeK 

1.     4  Bal.  122. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  $5 

It   is  ingeniously  argued  that  if  the  will  is  declared  void     Fonseka 
as  against  the  defendant's  deed  the  foundation  of  the  defend-    j-gj-nando 
ant's  title  is  cut  aWay  inasmuch  as  his  vendor's  title  is   deriv- 
ed  from   the  will — But  the  will  of  course  is  only  void  quoad   Re„t°°    j, 
the   adverse   interest   claimed  by    the    defendant,  that  is  the 
I'ight  to  hold  the  land  free  of  the  tacit   hypothec   created  by 
the  will.     It  was  also  contended  that  the  claim  was  prescrib- 
ed but  it  is  not  necessary  now  to  enter  into  that  question. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  posts. 

Wood  Renton,  J, — I  have  had  the  advantage  of  read- 
ing, and  have  little  to  add  to,  the  judgment  of  my  Lord  the 
Chief  .3ustice.  The  appellant's  tacit  hypothec  under  the  will 
and  the  respondent's  interest  under  his  deed  are  clearly 
adverse,  and  I  quite  agree  that,  both  in  law  and  as  a  matter 
of  policy,  the  former  is  void  as  against  the  latter  by  reason  of 
the  non-registration  of  the  probate.  The  question  as  to  the 
prescription  of  the  annuity  does  not  arise  in  view  of  the 
appellant's  allegation  that  he  had  rjjeived  or  recovered  all 
Slims  due  to  him  on  account  of  the  annuity  up  to  11th  Feb- 
ruary, 1911.  But  I  may  point  out  that  it  would  seem  to  result 
from  the  cases  of  Edimrds  c.  Wnrdfn  •'  and  Htighes  v. 
Coles  ^  that  the  right  to  recover  any  one  payment  of  |an 
annuity  accrues  whenever  it  becomes  due,  that  the  right  to 
future  payments  is  enforceable  whenever  each  of  these  be- 
comes due,  and  that  time  runs  irom  the  date  when  the  first 
annuity  became  payable. 


(a)     (iS74)  L.  E.  9  Gh.  405,  (1876)  1  A.  C.  281 
(b)     {1884)  27  Oh.  D.  231. 


86  COUBT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

A.   C.   MOHAMMADU    v.   BABUN. 

No.  11,285.  C.  R.,  Galle. 

Present :  Pereira,  J- 

14th  November,  1912. 

Ijiijiri'iviiifiit.-!  Hindi'  htj  Icdi-r  uii/l  I'lfcnse  iif  iiiciicr — iicqiiU'.tcnii-e — Ixiiiii 
tir]i'  y)().s'.sv.s-.s-('r — jiix  i-rtrntiiinh. 

A  person  who  has  made  improvements  upon  a,  land  with  the  leave 
and  license  of  the  owner,  is  entitled  to  the  Jus  retpntitmis  and  all  the 
other  rights  of  a  hmia  fde  possessor. 

Leave  and  license  is  an  intensified  form  of  acquiepcence. 

This  was  an  action  against  the  defendant  for  a  declara- 
tion of  title  to,  and  for  ejectment  from  a  house  standing  on 
the  plaintiff's  land.  The  defendant  pleaded  that  he  built  the 
house  in  question  and  that  he  made  a  plantation  of  47  cocoa- 
nut  trees  on  the  said  land  with  the  leave  and  license  of  the 
plaintiff's  vendor,  and  therefore,  he  was  not  liable  to  be 
ejected  until  compensated  for  the  said  improvements.  The 
learned  Commissioner  of  Requests  held  that  the  defendant 
was  entitled  to  compensation  for  the  said  house  and  planta- 
tion but  that  he  was  not  entitled  to  the y?/s  retentionis  inas- 
much as  his  possession  was  not  ut  dominus  and  he  according- 
ly entereil  judgment  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff  as  prayed  for 
with  costs. 

The  defendant  appealed. 

de  Zoysa  (with  H.  A.  Jayawardene)  for  the  defend- 
ant-appellant.— The  defendant  having  improved  the  land 
with  the  leave  and  license  of  the  plaintiff's  vendor  acquired 
all  the  rights  of  a  bona  fide  possesBor.  The  case  of  EUatumU 
V.  Sinatamhi  is  on  all  fours. 

A.  St.  V.  Jaymvardene  (with  E.  Q.  P.  Jayetileke),  for 
the  plaintiff-respondent. 

It  is  admitted  that  the   defendant   made   his  improve- 
1.     2  S.  C.  D.  64. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  8? 

ments  with  the  leave  and  license  of  the  owner.     Therefore  in    Mohamadu 

y, 

respect  of  the  improvement  made  on  such  leave  and  licenee,      Babuu. 


the  improver  cannot  be  said  to  be  in  the  position  of  a  hufia 
fide  possessor.  If  a  man  obtains  permission  merely  to  live  on  a 
land,  and  then  makes  a  plantation  without  the  owner's  leave 
or  license,  but  with  his  acquiescence,  the  improver  might 
claim  the  right  of  a  buiiu  fide  possessor  in  respect  of  such 
plantation.  But  when  the  improvement  for  which  a  right 
of  retention  is  claimed  has  been  made  with  express  leave  and 
license  the  improver  cannot  be  a  bona  fide  possessor  in  respect 
of  it.  [Pereira,  J.  Is  not  a  "leave  and  license"  an  intensi- 
fied form  of  acquiescence  ?]  No.  Acquiescence  leads  the 
improver  into  the  belief  that  he  has  the  right  to  effect  the 
improvements.  A  person  who  improves  with  the  owner's 
leave  and  license  cannot  consider  himself  to  be  the  owner, 
which  is  the  characteristic  of  a  bona  fide  possessor.  The 
judgment  cited  has  no  application  to  the  facts  of  this  case. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira,  J- — The  Commissioner  has  decided,  and  I 
think  rightly,  the  first  and  second  issues  in  the  defendant's 
favour.  He  has  held  that  the  defendant  built  the  house  on 
the  land  in  question  and  made  the  plantation  on  the  land 
■with  the  leave  and  license  of  the  plaintiff's  vendor.  Leave 
and  license  is  only  an  intensified  form  of  acquiescence,  and  if 
there  was  mere  leave  and  license  and  nothing  more,  the 
defendant  would  be  entitled  to  all  the  rights  of  a  bona  fide 
possessor.  He  would  certainly  be  entitled  to  the  Jus  re- 
tentionis.  I  set  aside  so  much  of  the  decree  as  directs  that 
the  defendant  be  ejected  from  the  house  on  the  land  describ- 
ed therein  and  that  the  plaintiff  be  put  and  placed  in  posses- 
sion thereof  and  condemns  the  defendant  in  damages  and 
costs.  The  defendant  may  remain  in  possession  of  the  house 
and  plantation  made  by  him  until  he  is  paid  compensation 
therefore.     He  will  have  his  costs  in  both  Courts. 

Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellant — A.  D.  Jayesundere. 
Proctor  for  respondent — R.  A.  H.  de  Vos, 


Pereira,  J. 


gg  COURT    OF     APPEAL    CASES. 

PILORIS   SILVA    V.   WILLIAM   SILVA   ef   al. 

No.  26,749,  C.  R.  Colombo. 

Present :   Lascelles,  C.  J. 

23rd  January,   1913. 

///•i  Yiiidimtin  iictiiiH—iirtinii  hy  jmir/msr.r  ,it  p.vi^cution  siile  jiending 
iiwrtgagp  actum  against  piirehaxer  iiiider  iiuixigagi'  ili'inre—nu  FixniVs 
tramfer  at  dati'  of  mi  ion  in  funinr  of  drfrndant—sufUcient  if  uUained 
hefore  trial. 

The  right  obtained  by  a.  purchaser  at  a  sale  in  exec  ution,  during  the 
pendency  of  a  mortgage  action  is  subject  to  the  result  of  the  mortgage 
action  and  subject  to  the  decree  therein. 

He  is  not  entitled  to  a  declaration  of  title  and  an  order  of  ejectment 
as  against  the  purchaser  under  the  mortgage  decree. 

Siimiappu  c.  BixxiiHagaii:^  followed. 

The  defendant  by  his  bond  dated  3rd  October,  1892, 
duly  registered,  mortgaged  his  life  interest  in  certain  pro- 
perty to  the  added-defendant.  The  added-defendant  put  his 
mortgage  bond  in  suit  on  the  9th  of  October,  1908,  and  obtain- 
ed a  decree  on  the  20th  October,  1908.  The  phuntiff  who 
was  decree-holder  in  a  money  case  against  the  defendant  had 
the  defendant's  life  interest  in  the  same  property  seized  and 
sold,  and  purchased  the  same  on  the  25th  January,  1909, 
and  obtained  his  Fiscal's  transfer  on  the  10th  July,  1909. 
He  instituted  the  present  action  against  the  defendant  and 
added-defendant,  on  the  22nd  of  February,  1912,  claiming  a 
declaration  of  title.  The  added-defendant,  though  he  pur- 
chased the  life  interest  aforesaid  at  the  mortgage  sale  on  the 
28th  day  of  April,  1909,  obtained  his  Fiscal's  transfer  on  the 
27th  May,  1912,  i.  e.  after  the  institution  of  plaintiflE's  action. 
The  Commissioner  of  Requests  gave  judgment  for  the  plain- 
^  tifE  on  the  ground  that  at  the  date  of   the  institution   of  the 

action,  the  added-defendant  had  not  obtained  a  Fiscal's  con- 
veyance. "The  decree  in  this  case,"  he  says,  however,  "will 
not  bar  the  added-defendant  from  instituting  another  action, 
if  he  is  so  advised." 


COURT    01^    APPEAL    CASES. 

E.  W.  Jayawardene  -with  L.  H.  de  Alivis,  for  defend- 
ants-appellant : — The  plaintiff's  title  is  subject  to  that  of  the 
added-defendaut,  as  he  purchased  the  property  pending  the 
mortgage  action  brought  l)y  the  defendant.  \_Samiappu  v. 
Disscmayake^;  Jayawardene  on  Mortgage  pp.  112  et  seq.'] 

The  defendant's  action  is  to  be  considered  pending  until 
judgment  has  been  satisfied  by  execution.  \_Salt  v.  Cooper-; 
Hukm  Chand  on  Res  JwUcata,  §  275.] 

The  principle  enunciated  by  Wendt,  J.,  has  been  con- 
sistently followed.  Delay  in  obtaining  a  Fiscal's  transfer  is 
often  due  to  causes  beyond  the  control  of  parties.  The 
position  of  a  plaintiff  is  different  from  that  of  a  defendant 
[^Carolis  V.  Perera^.']  The  plaintiff  need  not  come  to  Court 
until  he  has  obtained  his  Ki  seal's  transfer.  The  defendant 
is  entitled  to  produce  his  Fiscal's  transfer  at  any  time  before 
trial,  otherwise  his  title  is  worthless  and  is  liable  to  be 
defeated  by  any  subsequent  sale  by  the  judgment-debtor. 

Stmmugam  Ghetty  v.  Khan"^  was  also  referred  to. 

Samaraivickreme,  for  plaintiff-respondent. — The  posi- 
tion of  the  parties  must  be  considered  as  they  existed  at  the 
date  of  action  [(S'i.'/y a  v.  Nona  Hauii iie^ ."]  The  case  referred 
to  viz.  Ccu-oUs  V.  Perera'-^  is  a  partition  action,  -which  stands 
on  a   different  footing  from  an  action  for  declaration  of  title. 

Lascelles,  G.  J. — This  case  raised  a  question  of  law  of 
some  little  difficulty.  The  added-defendant  purchased  the 
life  interest  which  is  the  subject  of  the  action,  under  a  mort- 
gage decree.  During  the  pendency  of  the  mortgage  proceed- 
ings a  writ  had  been  issued  for  the  sale  of  the  life  interest  in 
execution  of  a  money  decree.  At  the  execution  sale  the  life 
interest  was  purchased  by  the  plaintiff,  who  completed  his 
title  by  obtaining  a  Fiscal's  transfer.  Having  obtained  his 
Fiscal's  transfer  and   before  the  added-defendant  had  com- 


89 


Silva 

V. 

Silva. 

Lascelles, 
C.  J. 


1.  3  Browne  82.  3.     {1911)  14  N.  L.  B.  129. 

2.  16  Ch.  D.  544.        4.     {1907)  2  A.  C.  R.  19. 

5.     {1908)  10  N.L.  R.  44. 


90  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Piiva        pleted  his  title  by  a  Fiscal's  transfer,  the  plaintiff  sued  the 
„.,^"  defendant  and  the  added-defemlant  for  a  declaration  of   title. 

Silva. 

The  Uommiasioner  has  given  judgment  in  favour  of  theplain- 
La«:elles.     ^.g_     ^^  ^^^^^  stress  on  the  fact  that  the  added-defendant  did 
not   obtain   hia   Fiscal's  transfer  until  after  the  institution  of 
the   present  action,   and  he  therefore  entered  judgmi-nt  for 
the   plaintiff,  observing   that   the   judgment  will  not  bar  the 
added-defendant  from  instituting  another  action,  if  he  is  so 
advised.     j\ow,   the   result   of   this  action  is,  in  my  opinion 
almost   absurd.     Judgment   has    been  given  for  the  plaintiff 
and  it  is  admitted  that  all  the  added-defendant  has  to  do,  now 
that  he  has  obtained  his  Fiscal's  transfer,  is  to  bring   another 
action   and   obtain  a  reversal  of  those  proceedings.     1  cannot 
believe  that  our  B3'stem  of  procedure  contemplates  a  position 
which  is  so  manifestly  unreasonable.    It  was  contended  that  it 
was  open  to  the  added-defendant  to  prove  the  Fiscal's  transfer 
obtained  by  him  after  the  institution  of  the  action,  and   that 
having  done  this,  he  was  in  the  same  position  as  if  he  had 
obtained  a  transfer  before  action  brought.     In  support  of  this 
argument  1  was  referred  to  the  case  of  Car  oils  v.  Per  era} 
But  lam  of  opinion  that  this   decision   does   not   support   the 
argument   of  the  respondent.    The  action  in  that  case    was 
a  partition  action,  and  in  the  judgment  of  Mr.  Justice  Grenier 
a  distinction  was  drawn  between  an  action  for  declaration  of 
title   and  an  action  for  partition.     The  judgment  is  carefully 
limited  to  partition  actions,  and  it  was  held    that,   ia    uctions 
of  that  desciiption,  a  party  was  entitled  to  rely  on  a    Fiscai's 
tiansfer  obtained  after  action  brought,  on  the  ground  that      f 
he    was  not  allowed   to  do  so,  he  w ould  never  have  another 
opportunity  of   asserting   his   title.     The  true  answer  to  the 
dillicuity  is,  in  the  present  case,  1  think,  to    be   found   in   the 
position  of  the  plaintiff  who  bought  during  the  pendency    of 
the  mortgage  proceedings.     The  right  which  he  obtained  was 
subject  to   the   result  of  the  mortgage  action,  and  subject  to 
the  decree  therein.     The  right  which  he  obtained  was,  there- 
fore, only  a  qualified  right,  and  he  was  not  entitled  as 'against 


i.     {ini)  14  N.  L.  li.  129. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  91 

the  purchaser  in  the  mortgage  decree  to  a  declaration  of  title 
and  an  or-der  of  ejectment.  In  my  opinion  the  judgment  is 
erroneous,  and  the  plaintiff's  action  must  be  disniisaed  against 
both  the  defendants  with  costs  as  regards  the  added-def end- 
ant  here  and  in  the  Court  below,  and  an  regards  the  defend- 
ant in  the  Court  below. 

Set  aside. 

Proctors  for  appelhuits. —  IF.  H.  W.  Pcrera  &  G.  A.  Rodrigo. 
Proctor  for  respondent. — C.  E.  A.  Samarnhhody. 


SILVA    V.   ASOHAMT  et  al. 

No.  19,230,  C.  R.,  Negombo. 

Present:  Pereira,  J- 

27th  January,  1913. 

J*i'p.'<('ripfin)i — notion  tn  rrau-rf  nttint-y  /idrancrd  an  a  ivriffcu  af/rpenirnt 
fur  hirf  and  srrrtcc—ordiniiHcr  22  of  1S71,  §§  7,  S  /i»d  11. 

Where  a  sum  of  money  was  advanced  by  A  to  B,  in  consideration 
of  which  B  entered  into  a  written  contract  of  hire  and  service  with  A  for 
a  term  of  years,  and  where  it  was  stipulated  that  the  sum  of  money 
advanced  was  to  be  deducted  from  the  total  amount  of  wages  due,  at  the 
expiration  of  the  term  of  the  contract, 

Hold,  that  the  claim  for  the  return  of  the  money  advanced  falls 
under  §  7  of  ordinance  22  of  1871,  and  is  prescribed  in  6  years  from  the 
cause  of  action. 

James  Appii  r.  Coi'nelis  de  Silra'-,  and  Tlioniassie  r  Kauaeutlii^ 
difEerentiated. 

Tn  this  case  the  plaintiff  on  the  TZth  January  1912  sued 
the  defendants,  who  are  the  heirs  of  one  Guneris  Silva 
deceased,  to  recover  from  them  a  sum  of  Rs.  60  advanced  to 
the  said  Guneris  Silva  on  the  9th  April,  1906,  in  consideration 
of  which  the  said  Guneris  Silva  entered  into  a  written  agree- 

1.     7S.C.G.1S9.  8.    6S.C.C.174 


92  COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 

SilTa  ment  to  peel  cinnamon  at  Wester  Seaton  Estate  for  a  period 
Asoham  °^  three  years  from  the  said  date,  but  in  consequence  of  the 
plaintifE  being  dismissed  from  the  said  estate  on  the  7th 
Pereira,  J.  Qctober,  1907,  the  said  Guiieris  Silva  ceased  to  do  work  for 
the  plaintiff  as  agreed  from  the  said  date.  The  defendants 
pleaded  amongist  other  things  that  the  plaintiff's  claim  was 
barred  by  prescription.  They  contended  that  the  plaintiffs 
claim  was  prescribed  in  three  years,  but  the  Commissioner  of 
Requests,  after  hearing  argument,  delivered  his  judgment  in 
favour  of  the  plaintiff  on  the  21th  October,  1912,  holding  that 
the  claim  was  on  a  written  agreement  and  prescribed  in  six 
years  from  the  date  of  the  cause  of  action  which  he  held 
arose  on  the  7th  October,  1907. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayatvardene  with  L.  H.  de  Alwis,  for  the  de- 
fendants-appellants.— The  claim  of  the  plaintiff  is  prescribed. 
The  action  is  not  to  enforce  any  right  or  claim  under  the 
agreement.  The  advance  was  made  not  on  the  agreement 
but  independently  of  it.  The  mere  fact  that  reference  is 
made  to  it  in  the  agreement  does  not  make  it  a  term  of  the 
agreement.  The  cases  of  James  Apjni  v.  Cornelia  de  Silva'^ 
and  Thumassie  v   Kanavathi  PuUe^  are  exactly  in  point. 

T.  N.  Mendis,  for  the  plaintiff-respondent — The  learned 
Commissioner  is  right.  The  claim  is  based  on  the  written 
agreement  and  arises  on  it,  and  therefore  falls  under  §  7  of 
the  Prescription  Ordinance.  The  case  of  Sithravelu  v. 
Sinnrtamhy^  supports  this  contention. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira,  J-  In  this  action  two  issues  were  framed  but  the 
defendants  abandoned  the  first  issue  and  relied  on  the  second 
issue  which  raised  the  question  whether  the  action  was  pres- 
cribed. 

The  plaintiff  contended,  and  tlie  learned  Commissioner 
upheld  his  contention,  that  the  action  was  brought  under  the 

1.     7S.C.C.1S9.        2.     5S.C.G.174. 
3.     (1905)  7  iV.  L.  B.  379, 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES.  93 

written  agreement  P^  and  was  therefore  governed  by  §  7  of        Silva 


Ordinance  22  of  1871. 


Asobamy. 


The  defondants-appel hints  on  the  other  hand    contend     Pereira,  J. 
that  the  action  was  one  for  a  aimple  money  debt  and  that  the 
claim  was  prescribed  in  three  years. 

The  plaint  recites  that  the  defendants'  intestate  entered 
into  a  written  agreement  with  the  plaintiff  and  received  a  sum 
of  i^s.  60  as  an  advance.  After  reciting  the  death  of  the  de- 
fendants' iutebtate,  and  that  the  defendants  were  the  only  heirs 
in  possession  of  the  property  of  the  deceased  it  goes  on  to  aver 
that  there  was  due  and  owing  from  the  defendants  to  the 
plaintiff  as  executors  de  son  tort  of  the  estate  of  the  deceased 
the  sum  of  Rs.  60. 

Turning  to  the  agreement  P^  it  appears  that  the  defend- 
ants' intestate  entered  into  a  contract  of  service  with  the 
plaintiff  who  was  a  kangany  of  the  Wester  Soaton  Estate. 
By  this  agreement  the  plaintiff  advanced  a  sum  of  Rs.  CO  to 
the  defendants'  intestate,  and  the  latter,  in  consideration  of 
this  sum  and  of  the  wages  to  be  paid  under  the  agreement, 
bound  himself  to  serve  the  plaintiff  as  a  peeler  of  cinnamon 
on  the  said  estate..  The  agreement  contained  a  stipulation 
that  at  the  determination  of  the  agreement  the  advances  made 
by"  the  plaintiff  should  be  deducted  from  the  total  amount  of 
wages  due  to  the  defendants'  intestate. 

It- appears  that  the  plaintiff  was  dismissed  from  the 
estate  on  the  7th  October,  1907,  and  the  agreement  was  thus 
brought  to  a  close. 

In  my  opinion  the  claim  in  the  plaint  is  clearly  laid 
under  the  agreement  P^  It  seeks  to  enforce  an  obligation 
which  waa  created  by  that  agreement. 

Counsel  for  the  defendants  referred  me  to  Mer/dcwatte 
James  Apjm  v.    G'>rnelis  de   iSilva^  and  to  Thvmmasie    v- 


1,     7  S.C.C.  129. 


94  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Kanavathi  Pille  Munigasoe  and  anoi/ierS  but  in  my  opi- 
nion these  cases  have  no  bearing  on  the  question  now  under 
consideration.  The  latter  case  was  one  where  a  vendor  sued 
the  purchaser  of  land  for  the  purchase  money  mentioned  in 
the  conveyance.  It  was  there  held  that  the  action  did  not 
fall  under  §  7  of  the  ordinance  but  was  a  simple  action  for 
debt.     In  the  former  case  the  facts  were  practically  the  same. 

Having  regard  to  the  claim  as  formulated  in  the  plaint,  I 
am  clearly  of  opinion  that  the  action  is  one  on  the  written 
agreement  P^,  and  that  the  learned  Commissioner  was  right 
in  holding  the  claim  is  not  prescribed. 

The  appeal  is  therefore  dismissed  with  costs. 

Dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant. — G.  V.  Siriwardene. 

Proctors  for  respondent. — de  Zoysa  &  Perera. 

:  o  : 

SEBASTIAN  FERNANDO  v.  BERNARDO  PERERA. 

No.  19,796,  0.  R.,   Negombo. 

Present:   Pereira,  J, 

6th  February,  1913. 

Damages,  action  for— seizurr  of  ■property  zoithout  warrantor  order  from 
Court— is  proof  of  malice  necessary— false  imprismmmnt— malicious  arrest— 
malicious  prosecutio^rir—injtiry  to  honour,  reputation  or  feelings. 

Where  A  cauaed  a  police  constable  to  seize  and  take  into  custody  a 
pair  of  cart  wheels  belonging  to  B,  alleging  that  the  same  were  Btolen 
from  him,  and  where  B  was  unsuccessfully  prosecuted  for  theft  of  the 
wheels  and  subsequently  brought  an  action  against  A  for  recovery  of 
damages  consequent  on  the  detention  of  the  wheels,  and  also  for  damages 
incurred  in  connection  with  the  criminal  prosacutiou,  but  did  not  claim 
damages  for  injury  to  honour,  reputation  or  feelings, 

1.    5S.G.C.174. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  95 


Perera. 


Held,    that   he   could  maintain  his  claim  for  damages  consequent  on     Fernando 
the  detention  of  the  cart  wheels  without  averring  or  proving  malice,  but 
not  the  damage  caused  by  reason  of  any  action  of  the  Police   Court  after 
the  charge  against  him  had  been  preferred  to  it. 

Sfvible,  that  Iiijiiriu,  in  the  more  specific  sense  means  any  word  or 
deed  calculated  to  hurt  the  feelings  of  another  or  to  injure  him  in  his 
honour,  dignity  or  reputation,  and  is  not  actionable  unless  the  offending 
party  can  be  said  to  have  had  the  uiiimiix  injuriaiidi. 

Under  the  Roman  Datch  Law  proof  of  animus  injuriaiidi  is  not 
necessary  in  an  action  where  the  damage  claimed  is  limited  to  loss  of 
property  or  of  its  temporary  use  or  the  temporary  loss  of  liberty  by 
reason  of  false  prosecution. 

Even  under  the  English  Law  it  is  only  in  the  event  of  an  actual 
prosecution  and  not  of  mere  information  to  the  Police  that  malice  need 
be  averred  and  proved  against  the  defendant. 

Austin  i:  Dowlimj^  followed, 

de  Ahvis  r.  iluruijapim  Cluttij''  referred  to. 

In  this  case,  the  plaintiff  says  that  the  defendant  caused 
the  Police  to  seize  and  remove  the  wheels  of  a  two  wheeled 
cart  belonging  to  the  plaintiff,  that  subsequently  the 
defendant  charged  the  plaintiff'  before  the  Police  Court  with 
the  theft  of  those  two  wheels,  th  it  the  plaintiff  WaS  tried  by 
the  Police  Court  on  the  charge  preferred  by  the  defendant 
and  acquitted,  and  that  he  (the  plaintiff),  by  reason  of  these 
acts  of  the  defendant,  sustained  damage  which  he  now  claims 
from  the  defendant.  The  dcimnge  claimed  is  not  damage 
consequent  on  any  injury  to  the  plaintiff's  honour,  reputa- 
tion, or  feelings,  but  damage  consequent  on  his  being  tem- 
porarily deprived  of  his  property  and  on  his  being  obliged  to 
incur  expense  in  connection  with  the  litigation  that  ensued. 
The  Commissioner  of  Requests  dismissed  the  plaintiff's  claim 
on  the  ground  that  he  had  not  averred  nor  was  he  prepared 
to  prove  malice  on  the  part  of  the  defendant  in  acting  as 
he  did,  and  from  this  decision  the  plaintiff  appealed. 
The  plaintiff's  counsel  confined  his  claim  to  only  so  much 
dam.ige  as  was  sustained  by    the   plaintiff   by  reason   of  the 

I.     {1870)  5  G.  P.  540.         8.     {1909)  12  N.  L.  R.  363. 


96 

Fernando 

V. 

Perera 
Pereira,  J. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

defendant's  action  in  having  the  plaintiff's  two  wheels  seized 
and  detained  by  the  Police,  and  did  not  press  his  claim  to 
damages  caused  by  reason  of  any  action  by  the  Police  Court 
after  the  defendant  had  preferred  to  it  his  charge  against  the 
plaintiff. 

Mahadeva,  for  plaintiff-appellant.— As  the  plaintiff  is 
not  claiming  damages  for  malicious  prosecution  he  need  not 
aver  or  prove  malice.  The  plaintiff's  claim  is  to  recover  the 
damages  he  has  sustained  by  reason  of  the  wrongful  seizure 
of  his  property  at  the  instance  of  the  defendant,  and  in  such 
a  case  it  is  immaterial  vyhether  the  seizure  was  malicious  or 
not.  He  referred  to  de  Ahvis  v.  Murugappa  Ghetty^  and 
Austin  V.  Dowliiig'-. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene,  for  defendant-respondent. — 
The  failure  to  allege  malice  is  fatal  to  the  plaintiff's 
claim.  The  seizure  of  the  cart  wheels  by  the  Police  at  the 
instance  of  the  plaintiff  on  the  ground  that  they  were  stolen 
was  the  commencement  of  the  prosecution  of  the  plaintiff  by 
the  defendant.  The  wheels  were  seized  l)y  the  Police  under 
§  59  of  the  Police  Ordinance  and  as  the  seizure  was  in 
consequence  of  a  criminal  charge,  the  principle  laid  down  in 
de  Alwis  v  Murugappa  Ghetty,^  where  the  seizure  was  on  a 
civil  writ,  does  not  apply.  What  the  defendant  did  is 
similar  to  what  is  known  to  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  as 
"malicious  arreBt".  The  Roman- Dutch  Law  draws  a  wide 
distinction  between  "false  imprisonment"  and  "malicious 
arrest".  [see  Nathan  vol.  iii,  paras  ltj48-1650.]  Austin  v. 
Duwling^  is  a  case  of  false  imprisonment  and  the  reasoning 
there  does  not  apply  to  this  case. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira,  J- — After  setting  out  the  facts  as  above,  con- 
tinued : — The  question  is  whether  the  wrong  committed 
by  the  defendant,  in  moving  the  Police  to  act  as  mentioned 
above  is  actionable  unless  it  can  be  shewn  that  the  defendant 
was  actuated  by  malice  or  evil  intention.  Now,  a  wrong  or 
injuria  is  generally  speaking  an  infringement  of  one's  right 
to  inviolability  of  person  and  property.     In  a  more  specific 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  GASES.  97 


sense,  it  was  applied  to  any  word  or  deed  calculated  to  hurt    Fernando 
the  feelings   of  another   or  to   injure   him   in   his  honour,      perera. 
dignity   or  reputation.     It   is   in  this   latter   sense   that  the  . 

term  ^^Injuria"  is  used  by  Voet  in  his  title  "De  injuriis  et 
famosis   libellis"   (see   Voet  49-10-1),  and  although  Voet  in 
that  title  ii.'akes  mention  of  the  case  of  such  injiTries  as  the 
seizure  and  sale  by  one  person  of  the  goods  of  another  who 
is  not  his  debtor  as  if  they    were  goods  of  his  debtor  (§  7) 
it  is  clear  that  his  treatment  of  such  acts  is  limited  to  the 
consideration  of  that  aspect  of  them  that  involves  injury  to 
one's  honour,  dignity,  reputation  or  feelings.     It  is  clear  that 
in  this  sense  injuria  is  not  actionable  unless  the  offending 
party  can  be  said  to  have  had   the  animus  injiiriandi,  but  I 
am  not  aware  that  injuria  in  the  more  general  sense  men- 
tioned above  is  any  the  less   actionable   than  gwasi-delicts 
under  the  Roman  Law  because  malice  or  evil  intention  can- 
not be  attributed  to  the  offender.     Chief  Justice  Maasdorp  in 
his  work   of   Cape   Law  observes    (Vol.  Ill,  p.   80)    that  in 
South  Africa   in  the  case  of  an  action  for  malicious  prosecu- 
tion, the  principles   and  practice  in  force  in  English  Courts 
are  followed,  which,  he  says,  are  in  entire  accordance  with  the 
general  principles  of  Roman-    utch  Law.     1  think  the  same 
may  be  said  of  Ceylon.     One  of  the  essential  requisites  of  this 
form  of  action  in  England  is  proof  that  the  defendant  acted 
maliciously  and  without  reasonable  or  probable  cause.     I  am 
not  sure  that  under  the  Roman  Dutch  Law  proof  of  animus 
injuriandi  can  be  said  to  be  necessary   in  such  an  action 
where  the  damage  claimed  is  limited  to  loss  of  property  or  of 
its  temporary  use  or  the  temporary  loss  of  liberty  by  reason 
of   the  false    prosecution.     No    question    on    this    point  is 
involved  in  the  present  case,  and  1  need  not  discuss  it  here  ; 
but  it  is  clear  that  even  under  the  English  Law,  it  is  only  in 
the  event  of  an  actual  prosecution  and  not  of  mere  inform- 
ation to  the  Police  that  malice  need  be  averred  and  proved 
against  the  defendant. 

In  Austin  v.Dowling'^  Willes  J.  observed  :  "The  distinc- 
I.     {1870)  S.  G.  P.  540. 


98  COURT     OF    APPEAL     CASES. 

Fernando     "tion  between  false  imprisonment  and  malicious  prosecution 
,-  "is  well  illustrated  by  the  ca.e   where,  parties  being  betore 

"a  Magistrate,  one  makes  a  charge  against  another,  whereupon 
'•''■^''■•»'-'-  "the  Magistrate  orders  the  person  charged   to    be   taken   into 
"custody  and  detained  until  the  matter  can   be   investigated. 
"The  party  making  the  charge  is  not  liable  to   an   action  for 
"false  imprisonment,   because   he   does  not  set  a  ministerial 
"officer   in    motion,   but    a    judicial    officer.      The    opinion 
"and   judgment  of    a    judicial    officer    are    interposed    b'e- 
"tween    the     charge     and    the    imprisonment.      There    is 
"therefore,    at    once    a     line    drawn    between   the    end   of 
"the  imprisonment  by  the  ministerial  officer  and  the  com- 
"mencement  of   the   proceedings  before  the  judicial  officer. 
"It  is   fallacious    to    inquire    whether  or  not    the    one    is 
"severable   from ,  the   other   until  you  find  some  inseparable 
"connection  between  them.     It  may   very    well  happen  in 
"the    superior    courts    which    have  jurisdiction    over  both 
"descriptions  of  actions  where  a  plaintiff,  having  been  at  once 
"before  a  Magistrate,  may  be  content  to  bring  his  action  for 
^'false  imprisonment  only.     In  such  a  case  the  judge  would 
"tell  the  jury  to  give  damages  for  the  false    imprisonment 
"only,  and  not  for  what  came  under  the  cognizance  of  the 
^•Magistrate". 

In  the  present  case,  as  in  that  cited,  the  information 
given  by  the  defendant  to  the  Police  cannot  be  given 
the  effect  of  a  malicious  prosecution.  The  same  considera- 
tions do  not  apply  to  the  two  proceedings,  and  1  do  not  think 
that  malice  or  evil  intent  in  the  defendant  need  be  established 
to  entitle  the  plaintiff  to  damage  for  the  seizure  and  detention 
of  his  two  cart  wheels  by  the  Police  at  the  instance  of  the 
defendant.  The  decision  in  de  Aim's  v.  Murugarqia 
Chetty-  is,  to  some  extent,  in  point.  There,  Hutchinson, 
C.  J.  observed — "If  one  seizes  A's  goods  wrongfully  and 
"without  having  any  writ  or  warrant,  he  makes  himself 
"liable  to  an  action  for  damages.  No  evidence  of  malice  is 
"necessary  and  it  is  no  defence  that  he  acted  under  a  mistake. 

2.     {1909)  12  N.  L.  B.  368. 


COURT  OF  •  APPEAL  CASES.  99 

"Does  it  make  any  difference  if  he  h<id  a  writ  for  the  seizure 
''of  B's  goods  or  person,  and  by  mistake  seized  A's  ?  On  prin- 
"ciple  I  should  say  no". 

I  set  aside  the  order  appealed  from  and  remit  the  case  for 
the  trial  of  the  issue  whether  the  defendant  caused  the  Police 
to  seize  and  remove  the  two  wheels  of  the  plaintiflE's  cart,  and 
if  so,  what  loss  the  plaintiff  sustained,  and  such  other  relevant, 
issues  that  the  Court  may  think  it  necessary  to  frame  on  the 
cause  of  action  mentioned  above. 

The  plaintiff  will  have  his  costs  so  far  in  both  Courts. 

Set  aside  and  sent  bark. 

Proctors  for  appellant. — de  Sih'a  &  Perera. 

Proctor  for  respondent. — L.  C.  E.  Kaiunaralne. 

SUMANASARA   UNANSE    v.   SENEVIRATNE. 

No.  4,774,  D.  C,  Kalutara,  (Inty.) 

Present:   Lascelles,  C  J,  &  Ennis,  J- 

6th  September,  1912. 

Piistpiincment  of  C(t.si — ivxfs  of  the  ilii ij— order  disiiiixxi/ii]  action  in. 
fuibirr  of  payment  hefore  ne.rt  date  nf  trial — no  jurisdiction. 

A  Court  has  no  power  to  make  an  order  that  an  action  shall  be 
diBmiesed  in  the  event  of  the  plaintiff's  failing-  to  deposit  the  defend- 
ant's costs  of  the  day  before  the  next  day  of  trial. 

The  facts  material  to  this  appeal  are  set  out  in  the 
judgment. 

H.  A.  Jayeivardeae,  for  plaintiff-appellant. — The  order 
allowing  a  postponement  was  wrong.  The  amendment 
suggested  by  the  plaintiff  did  not  introduce  anything  new 
that  was  not  contemplated  by  the  parties  in  their  pleadings. 
The  District  Judge  had  no  power  to  order  the  appellant's 
action  to  be  dismissed  in  the  event  of  his  failure  to   deposit 


m  COURT  OV    APPEAL  CASES. 

Unanse      the   respondent's   costs   before   the  next  date  of  trial.     The 
Seneriratnc.  ^^ode  does  not  give  him  such  a  power.     See  Bang  Ettana  v. 
Apjiii'  and  Goonewardene  v.  Monakulas%iriya- . 


Lascelles. 
C.J. 


/.  Joseph  for  respondent. — This  appeal  is  prematura. 
The  appellant  might  come  to  this  Court  when  his  action  is 
finally  dismissed  for  failure  to  pay  costs.  The  order  as 
ii  now  stands  is  one  for  payment  of  costs  and  the  Supreme 
Court  will  not  interfere  with  the  order  unless  it  is  manifestly 
wrong.  {Government  Ayerit  of  Uva  v.  Banda^.)  The  appel- 
lant cannot  be  said  to  be  prejudiced  by  the  order  as  it  now 
stands.  If  he  pays  the  costs  before  the  next  dace  of  trial  his 
action  will  not  be  dismissed. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — 'In  this  case  there  was  a  discussion  as 
to  the  issues  that  were  to  be  fixed  in  the  action,  and  at  the 
close  of  the  discussion  Mr.  V.  M.  Fernando,  who  appeared  for 
the  plaintiff,  moved  to  amend  his  plaint.  The  amendment 
was  allowed.  Then  Mr.  de  Saram,  who  appeared  for  the 
defendant,  moved  to  amend  his  answer  in  order  to  meet 
the  amended  issue  and  applied  to  have  the  costs  of  the 
day  ;  and  he  also  asked  for  an  order  that  the  costs  should  be 
deposited  in  Court  before  the  next  day  of  trial.  He  gave  his 
reasons  for  his  application  that  the  plaintiff  was  a  Buddhist 
priest,  and  that,  if  the  defendant  succeeded,  he  would  be 
unable  to  recover  the  costs  from  him.  I  think  that  Mr. 'de 
Abrew's  forebodings  were  not  entirely  without  ground  as  is 
shewn  by  the  present  appeal.  The  Judge  then  made  order 
that,  in  the  event  of  the  defendant's  taxed  costs  not  ■  being 
deposited  in  Court  before  the  net  day  of  trial,  the  plaintiff's 
action  will  be  dismissed  with  costs.  Against  this  order  the 
plaintiff  now  appeals,  and  contends  that  the  District  Judge 
had  no  jurisdiction  to  make  an  order  that  the  action 
would  be  dismissed  in  the  event  of  the  defendant  failing  to 
deposit  the  costs  of  the  day  before  hearing.  Por  the  respon- 
dent it  is  pointed  out  that  the  appellant  has  been  in  a  great 
hurry  to   bring  this  appeal ;   that  he  has  cried  out  before  he 

1.     {1899)4  N.L.B.  185.         2.     {1200)  1  Br.  21 
.     S.     {1910)  13  N.  L.  B.  341. 


COtTRT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  WL 

has  been  hurt,  and  that  no  order  has  yet  been  made  dismissing      Unanse 

the   action.     However,  we   have  been  asked  to  decide  on  the  genevrratne. 

question  as  to  whether  the  District  Judge  had  jurisdiction  to 

make   an   order  that  he  would  dismiss  the  plaintiflE's  action        ""'**   ' 

after  he  failed  to  pay  the  costs  in  Court.    No  section   of  the 

Code   has   been   cited  to  us  which  invests  the  District  Judge 

with  any  such  power,  and  I  think  that,   in   the   case  of  an 

order  finally   dismissing   the   action,  it  is  necessary  that  a 

Judge  should  act  under   some  specific  power  given   to  him 

under  the  Code.     We  have  been  referred  to  the  case  of  Rang 

Etayia  v.  Appu^.  Though  the  facts  of  that  case  are  not  exactly- 

the  same  as  the  facts  here,  they  are  very  similar.    There  the 

opinion  of  Mr.  Justice  Withers  inclines  to  the  view  that  in  a 

similar  case  the  District  Judge  had  no  power  to   dismiss  the. 

action.     We,   therefore,  think  that  so  much  of  the   order   as 

states  that  the  action  will  be  dismissed  on  failure  to  pay  the 

costs  Into  the  Court  must  be  expunged.    In  the  circumfltanoes 

of  the  case  we  do  not  propose  to  make  any   order  as  to    the 

costs  of  the  appeal . 

Ennis,  J.  -I  agree. 

Proctor  for  appellant — J.  A.  Fernando. 

Proctor  for  respondent — A.  de  Abrew. 

I.     {1899)  4  N.  L.  R.  1S5. 


im 


COtTRT    OF    APPEAL    OASES. 
HUGO    FERNANDO   v.   MTGEL   APPU. 
No.  19,371,   C.  R.,  Negombo. 
Present 'i — Lascelles'C.  J. 

21st  January,  191.^. 

ArhitratwH—arhitrator  ircririnff  fees  from  tine  jtiniij  before  award, 
macLe—Jegol  nii.ieondiicf—bius—uncon.teiom  Uas— proof  of  partiality  not 
neoes.iarij. 

It  is  legal  misconduct  for  the  arbitrator  to  receive  Ms  fees  from  one 
of  the  parties  before  the  completion  of  his  award. 

Any  act  amounts  to  legal  misconduct  if  it  would  give  rise  to  a , 
reasonable  probability  that  the  arbitrator  would  be  subjected  to  any  im- 
proper influence. 

In  order  to  constitute  legal  misconduct  it  is  not  necessary  to  prove 
dishonesty  or  partiality  on  the  part  of  the  arbitrator. 

Baiva,  K.  C,  for  defendant-appellant. — The  action 
of  the  arbitrator  in  accepting  his  fee  from  the  plaintiff's 
proctor  before  making  his  award  amounts  to  legal  mis- 
conduct. The  doctrine  applicable  to  judges  might  well 
be  applied  to  arbitrators  viz.:  "that,  not  only  must  they 
be  not  biassed,  but  that,  even  though  it  be  demonstrated  that 
they  would  not  be  biassed,  they  ought  not  to  act  as  judges 
in  a  matter  where  the  circumstances  are  such  that  people — 
not  necessarily  reasonable  people,  but  many  people — would 
suspect  them  of  being  biassed.  \_Eckersley  v.  The  Mersey 
Docks'^.]  The  usual,  and  indeed,  the  proper  course,  that  the 
arbitrator  should  have  taken,  was  to  have  retained  the  award 
until  his  fees  were  paid.  [Russell  on  Arbitration  pp.  297 
and  298] .  There  was  no  objection  to  the  arbitrator  taking 
his  fees  after  the  award  was  made. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene.  for  plaintiflE-respondent,— There 
is  no  misconduct  on  the  part  of  the  arbitrator.  He  was 
chosen  by  both  the  parties,  and  it  is  not  suggested  that  the 
fact  of  the  payment  of  his  fees  by  the  plaintifiE's  proctor   did 

/.     {189e)  2  Q.  B.  667. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES, 


103 


inflaence  the  arbitrator  in  making  his  award.  It  is  in  evidence    Fernando 
that  the  defendant's  proctor  advised  the  arbitrator  to  obtain       Appu, 
his  fees  from   the  plaintifE  in  the   first    instance.     It  is  the 
usual  practice  for  the  arbitrator  to  get  his  fees  before  making        c.  j. 
his  award. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  is  an  application  to  set  aside  an 
award  on  the  ground  of  misconduct  on  the  part  of  the  arbi- 
trator. The  alleged  misconduct  consists  in  the  fact  that  the 
arbitrator,  before  he  made  his  award,  accepted  his  fee  which 
amounted  to  Rs.  21  from  the  plaintiff.,  There  is,  it  is  fair  to 
notice,  no  imputation  of  dishonesty  against  the  arbitrator  ; 
nor  is  it  alleged  or  proved  that  he  was  in  fact  influenced  in 
his  award  by  the  fee  which  he  had  received  from  one  of  the 
parties.  Hut  in  order  to  constitute  legal  misconduct  it  is  not 
necessary  that  there  should  be  proof  of  any  dishonesty  or 
partiality  on  the  part  of  the  arbitrator.  Any  act  amounts  to 
legal  misconduct  if  it  would  give  rise  to  a  reasonable  pro- 
bability that  the  arbitrator  would  be  subjected  to  any  im- 
proper influence.  Now,  the  rights  of  an  arbitrator  as  regards 
the  payment  of  his  fee  are  well  settled.  A fter  making  his 
award  he  is  entitled  to  retain  the  award  until  he  has  receiv- 
ed his  fee  either  from  one  party  or  the  other.  But  that  is  a 
wholly  different  matter  from  taking  a  fee  from  one  of  the 
parties  before  he  has  actually  made  his  award.  The  receipt 
of  a  fee  at  that  stage  is,  in  my  opinion,  an  act  which  is  calcu- 
lated to  undermine  the  confidence  of  the  opposing  party  in 
the  impartiality  of  the  arbitrator.  There  is  one  portion  of 
the  evidence  of  the  arbitrator  to  which  I  ought  to  refer.  The 
arbitrator  in  his  evi'^ence  stated  that  the  defendant's  proctor 
had  advised  him  to  take  his  fee  first  from  the  plaintiff,  and 
had  stated  that  the  defendant  would  not  be  responsible  for 
his  fee.  If  the  meaning  of  that  evidence  is  as  I  first  thought, 
that  the  defendant's  proctor  had  suggested  that  the  arbitrator 
should  take  his  lee  from  the  plaintifE  before  he  made  his 
award,  I  should  certainly  have  held  that  it  did  not  lie  in 
the  mouth  of  the  defendant  to  object  to  the  award  on  the 
ground  that  the  arbitrator  had  adopted  a  course  which  their 
own  proctor  had  suggested.    But  Mr.  Bawa  has  pointed  out 


m  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

that  it  is  possible  that  the  meaning  of  the  advice  given  by  the 
defendant's  proctor  was  that,  after  the  award  had  been  made, 
that  is,  at  the  proper  time  when  the  fee  ought  to  be  paid, 
the  arbitrator  should  take  his  fee  from  the  plaintiff.  This 
of  course  would  be  a  perfectly  unobjectionable  proceeding, 
and  it  is  perhaps  the  course  which  the  defendant's  proctor 
advised.  I  think  it  would  be  setting  a  very  dangerous  prece- 
dent if  it  were  held  that  an  arbitrator,  before  the  completion 
of  his  award,  was  entitled  to  receive  payment  of  his  fee  from 
either  of  the  parties  to  the  arbitration.  The  receipt  of  the 
fee  at  this  stage  of  the  arbitration  in  my  opinion  amounts  to 
legal  misconduct,  and  the  appeal  must  be  allowed  and  the 
award  set  aside.  The  appellant  is  entitled  to  the  costs  of  the 
appeal,  and  to  the  costs  of  the  application  in  the  Court 
below. 

Set  aside  and  sent  back. 

Proctors  for  appellant — de  Silva  <k  Perera. 
Proctors  for  respondent — de  Zoijsa  &  Perera. 


SELAMBRAM    et    al.    v.    PERUMAL    et    al. 

No.  32,611,  D.,  C,  Colombo. 
Present     Lascelles.  C.  J.  &  Wood  Renton,  J. 

',"         '  22nd  November,  1912. 

Last  Will— Jidei-commissum— "heirs  inperpetuit,/  •—sii.fficient  indicatiuu 
of  persons  to  be  benefited. 

A  will  contained  the  following  words  "I  give  and  devise  unto  my 
two  sisters  the  house  and  premises upon  this  condi- 
tion however  that  they  shall  not  .ell  mortgage  or  in  any  other  manner 
alienate  the  said  house  and  premises  but  that  the  same  shall  be  always 
held  and  possessed  by  them  and  their  /leirs  in  perpetuity  under  the  bond 
of  Jidei-commissmm. 

Held,  that  the  above  words  created  a  ^nUAJidei-commissvm  operating 
in  favour  of  the  heirs  of  the  fiduciaries  for  four  generations.  The  words 
"heir,  in  perpetuity"  contain  a  sufficient  indication  of  the  class  in  whose 
ifftTOur  the  Jidei-commisswm  is  created. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


105 


rial 

V. 

Perumal 

et  al. 

Lascelles, 
C.  J. 


Lascelles,  C.  J. — The  question  on  which  this  appeal  Selambram' 
turns  is  whether  a  valid  fidei-cominissum  was  created  by  the 
will  of  Gabriel  Rodrigo  Bastian  Pulle,  and  if  so  what  was 
the  extent  of  the  fidei-rommissum,  that  is  to  say  did  the  fidri 
commissum,  assuming  one  to  have  been  created,  determine 
on  the  deaths  of  Ana  and  l\[aria,  or  did  it  continue  to  operate 
in  favour  of  the  heirs  of  these  persons  for  the  fu.ll  period  of 
four  generations.  The  material  words  in  the  will  are  the 
following  : 

"I  give  and  devise  unto  my  two  sisters  Ana  Rodrigo,  a 
widow  of  Philip  Morals  and  Maria  Rodrigo  the  house  and 
premises  in  which  I  am  now  residing,  together  with  all  the 
appurtenances  thereunto  belonging,  marked  No.  54,  situated 
in  the  -Ith  Cross  Street  in  the  Pettah  of  Colombo  upon  this 
condition,  however,  that-  they  shall  not  sell  mortgage  or  in 
any  other  manner  alienate  the  said  house  and  premises,  but 
that  the  same  shall  be  always  held  and  possessed  by  them 
and  their  heirs  in  perpetuity  under  the  bond  of  fidei-commis- 
sum, and  as  regards  my  said  two  sisters  it  is  my  wish  that 
they  should  live  together  amicably  in  the  same  house  as  they 
now  do. 

We  have  been  referred,  amongst  other  authorities,  to 
the  cases  of  Tina  r.  Sadris^,  Pa tc rs(»Y i' .  Silva-  (in  which  the 
correctness  of  the  decision  of  the  majority  of  the  Court  in 
the  former  case  was  questioned  by  Clarence,  J.)  LiisUington 
V.  SamarasingTie''  and  Wijewardpiie  v.  Abdul  Hamid.-^  and 
Nugara  v.  GonsaJ''  but  in  none  of  the  cases  do  we  find  a  con- 
currence of  all  the  conditions  which  are  present  in  the  devise 
now  under  consideration,  namely  (1)  the  usual  prohibition 
against  alienation  (2)  the  expressed  intention  of  the  Testa- 
tor that  the  subject  matter  of  the  devise  should  be  "held  and 

possessed under  the  bond  of  fid"i-com.missum"  and 

(3)  the  designation  ot  the  fidei-coinmissuiii  aa  the '-heirs  in 
perpetuity"  of  the  fiduciiirii  without  the  addition  of  any 
such  words  as  executors,  administrators  and  assigns. 

1.  7  S.G.C.  185.  3.     2  N.  L.  R.  295. 

2.  9  S.  C.  C.  33.  4.     12  N.  L  R.  251. 

5.     14  N.  L.  R.  301. 


106 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Selambram 
et  al. 

V. 

Perumal 

et  al. 

Lascelles. 
C.J. 


It  is  well  eett'ed  that  no  particular  formula  of  words  is 
required  to  create  a  yzVZ(!'/-comm/.ss»»i  and  that  the  true  test 
is  the  intention  of  the  testator  as  evinced  by  the  language  of 
the  instrument.  The  express  reference  to  the  "bond  of 
fidei-commissum"  places  the  intention  of  the  testator  beyond 
speculation.  It  is  declared  in  express  terms.  It  is  true  that 
there  may  be  cases  where  the  testator  has  made  an  express 
declaration  of  his  intention  to  create  a  fidei-commissum,  but 
his  intention  has  been  held  to  be  incapable  of  execution  for 
want  of  sufficient  designation  of  the  persons  of  the  class  in 
whose  favour  the  fidei-commissum  was  intended  to  take  effect. 
The  Stonih  \h-\oanca.Beot  Drew  v.  Executo/'  of  Dreiv'^  is  an 
example.  There  the  testators  purported  to  "entail  and 
burden  with  fidei-commissum  the  inheritances  forthcoming 
to  our  aforesaid  children  under  and  by  virtue  of  this  will", 
but  it  was  held  that  the  children  took  the  bequest  absolutely 
as  the  will  contained  no  gift  over  or  mention  of  the  persons 
who  were  to  take  after  the  children. 

In  the  present  case  after  the  prohibition  against  aliena- 
tion the  clause  in  the  will  proceeds  "but  that  the  same  shall 
be  always  held  and  possessed  by  them  and  their  heirs  in 
perpetuity  under  the  bond  oi  fidci-com missitm" . 

Do  the  words  contain  a  sufficient  indication  of  the  class 
in  whose  favour  the  fidei-commissum  is  created  ? 

The  question  is  free  from  the  difficulty  which  arises 
when  the  word  "heirs"  is  followed  by  the  words  "executors 
and  administrators"  as  in  Nugara  v.  Gonsal  ^  or  by  the 
words  and  "administrators"  as  in  Ti)ia  v.  Sadris  ^. 

We  have  to  determine  whether  a  devise  which  satisfies 
all  the  other  requirements  of  a  fldci-commissum  fails  to  operate 
aaa  fldei-cummissum  because  the  persons  who  are  to  take 
after  the  original  institutes  are  designated  "their  heirs  in 
perpetuity". 


1      14  N.  L.  B.  801. 
3, 


2.    Buchanan's  Rep.  (1876)  208 
7  S.  C.  G.  135,  ^    ^        ■>        ■ 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


107 


In  Paterson  v.  Silra^  a  very  similar  question  was 
discassed  and  decided  by  Clarence,  J.  The  testator  by  the 
third  clause  in  the  will,  after  prohibiting  his  children  from 
alienating  the  property  devised  to  them,  declared  that  "they 
{i.e.,  the  testator's  children)  shall  possess  and  leave  the  same  to 
their  heirs."  Clarence,  J.,  was  of  opinion  that,  if  that  clause 
stood  alone,  there  could  be  no  question  but  that  the  testator 
intended  to  create  a  fidpi-coinmissum  for  the  benefit  of  the 
heirs  of  his  respective  children,  "meaning  by  heirs  those 
persona  who  may  be  their  heirs  in  ordinai-y  parlance,  that  is 
to  say,  those  persons  who  would  be  entitled  to  inherit  their 
property  under  an  intestacy". 

This  decision  is  a  clear  authority  from  the  construction 
which  seems  to  me  to  accord  with  the  natural  meaning  of  the 
language  employed  by  the  testator,  namely  that  a  _/irfe/-co;H- 
missum  was  created  in  favour  of  the  persons  who,  under  the 
law  of  intestate  succession  would  be  entitled  to  succeed  to  the 
property  of  the  donees.  The  words  "in  perpetuity"  plainly 
indicate  the  testator's  intention  that  the  Jidei-rommissuni 
should  endure  for  the  benefit  of  these  persons  for  the  full 
period  allowed  by  law. 

I  do  not  consider  that  Tit^a  v.  Sadris-  is  nn  authority 
against  this  construction  of  the  will,  as  the  judgments  of  the 
majority  of  the  Court,  sjjecially  that  of  Fleming,  A..C.J.,  were 
considerably  influenced  by  the  fact  that  the  prohibition  against 
alienation  extended  to  the  heirs  and  administrators  of  the 
original  donees. 

For  the  above  reasons  I  am  of  opinion  that  the  will  of 
Gabriel  Rodrigo  Bastian  Pulle  created,  with  reference  to  the 
house  in  question,  a  valid ^fidc/'-coiiimissuni  for  the  full  period 
allowed  by  law  in  favour  of  the  persons  who  under  the  law  of 
intestate  succession  would  be  entitled  to  succeed  respectively 
to  Ana  and  Maria. 

This  finding  will  necessitate  the  further  inquiry  on  the 


Selambram 

pf  al. 

V. 

Perumal 

et  al. 

Lascelles, 
C,  J. 


1.     9  S.  C.  G.  33.  2.     7  S.  G.  G.  135. 


108  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Selambram   JBSue  of  prescription  in  view  of  the  proviso  to  Section  3  of  the 
'"^;''-       Ordinance  No.  22  of  1871. 

Perumal 
et  111,  The   Ccise   must   thf-refore    be   remitted   to   the    District 

Wood       Judge  for  further  inquiiy  on  the  footing  that  the  property  is 

Renton,  J.    subject  to    a   fidei-comniissura   of  the  nature   which   I  have 

indicated.     The  appellant  is  entitled  to  the  costs  of  his  appeal 

from  the  8th  and  iHh  defendants  and  the  other  costs  must  be 

costs  in  the  cause. 

Wood  Renton,  J, — I'he  material  facts  in  this  case  are 
briefly  these.  The  plaintiffs-appellants  claim  a  declaration 
of  titlein  themselves  and  in  the  1st,  2nd,  3rd,  4th,  5th,  6th  and 
7th  respondents,  who  having  declined  to  be  co-plaintiffs  have 
been  made  defendants  in  the  actinn,  to  a  house  and  premises 
described  in  a  schedule  to  the  plaint  and  the  recovery  of 
mesne  profits  and  damages  in  lieu  of  current  rent  and  profits 
till  th4  ejectment,  from  the  8th  and  9th  defendants- 
respondents,  who  are  in  possession  of  the  property. 
The  original  ownei'  of  the  property,  Gabriel  Hodrigo  Bastian 
PuUe,  by  his  last  will  No.  1370,  dated  17th  April,  1845, 
devised  it  to  his  sisters,  Ana  Rodrigo  and  Maria  Rodrigo. 
The  devise  was  made  subject  to  the  following  condition  : — 

'•They  shall  not  sell,  mortgage,  or  in  any  other 
"manner  alienate  the  said  house  and  premises,  but  the 
'■same  shall  be  always  held  and  possessed  by  them 
"and  their  heirs  ii:  jierpetuity  under  the  bond  of  fidei 
"commissum,  and  as  regards  my  saivl  two  sisters  it  is  my 
"wish  that  they  should  live  together  amicably  in  the  same 
'■house  as  they  now  do". 

The  appellants  and  the  1st— 7ih  defendants-respondents 
are  the  heirs  of  the  devisees  under  this  will.  By  deed 
No.  2434,  dated  16th  September,  1856,  Ana  and  Maria  Rodrigo 
gifted  the  property  in  quest i.-n  to  the  grand-daughter  of  the 
former,  k  githa  Morals,  on  the  occasion  of  her  marriage  in  com- 
munity to  Domingo  Silva  Pulle,  subject,  however,  to  the  con- 
dition imposed  on  devisees  under  the  will.  The  property  was 
sold  by  the  Fiscal  in  1881,  in  execution  against  Domingo 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES. 


109 


Wood 
Renton,  J. 


Silva  Pnlle  and  has  passed  by  various  mesne  conveyances  to  Selambram 
the  8th  defendant-respondent,  who  has  leased  it  to  the  9th.  *"  ^ 
Apart  from  the  question  of  the  effect  of  the  condition,  above  Perumal 
quoted,  in  Bastian  Piille's  will,  the  8th  defendant-respondent 
would  admittedly  have  a  prescriptive  title  to  the  property. 
An  issue,  framed  on  this  point  at  the  trial,  has  been  answered 
by  the  learned  District  Judge  in  his  favour.  I  do  not  think, 
however,  that  we  can  deal  with  that  question  on  this  appeal. 
Although  the  Appellant's  Counsel  admitted  in  argument  at 
the  trial  that  the  8th  defendant  and  his  predecessors  in  title 
had  been  in  possession  ut  dominus  since  1884,  he  cannot  have 
intended  to  concede  thereby  that  that  possession  sufficed  to 
extinguish  all  the  interests  arising  under  Bastian  Pulle's  will — 
a  concession  immediately  fatal  to  the  appellant's  case  and 
rendering  any  consideration  of  the  meaning  of  the  condition 
in  the  will  superfluous.  Nor  I  do  think  that  we  ought — as  the 
respondent's  Counsel  invited  us — to  take  the  allegations 
in  the  plaint  and  to  try  to  see  whether  they  afford  mate- 
rial for  upholding  the  finling  of  the  learned  District  Judge 
on  the  issue  of  prescription.  The  only  issues  that  we  ought, 
in  my  opinion,  to  consider  on  this  appeal  are  the  1st,  2nd,  and 
10th      They  have  been  framed  as  follows  : — 


(1)  "  Was  a  valid  fidei-commissum  created  by  the  will 
"No.  1370  of  17th  April,  1845  ?" 

(2)  "  Was  a  valid  fidei-commissum  created  by  the  Gift 
"  Deed  No.  2434  of  16th  September,  1896  ? 

(10)     "  Even   if  the  will  No.  1370  created  a  valid  fidei- 
"commissum,    was   the    fidei-commissum    one    in 
perpetuity  or  a  fidei-commissum  which  elapsed  on 
"  the  death  of  Ana  and  Maria".? 


The  District  Judge  answers  :  Issues  1  and  2  in  the 
negative.  On  issue  10  he  holds  that,  even  if  Bastian  Pulle's 
will  did  create  a  fidei-commissum,  that  fidei-commissum 
lapsed  on  the  death  of  Ana  and  Maria  Rodrigo.  On  these 
findings  and  the  finding  on  the  issue  of  prescription  the 
learned  District  Judge  dismissed  the  appellant's  action. 


no 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Selambram 

et'  al. 

V. 

Perumal 

et  al- 

Wood 
Renton,  J. 


It  is  unnecessary  to  consider  the  finding  on  Issue  2, 
since  in  my  opinion  Issue  1  should  be  answered  in  the  affirm- 
ative, and  on  Issue  10  the  decision  should  be  that  the  fidei- 
commissum  created  by  the  will  was  one  in  perpetuity,  so  far 
as  the  law  allows. 

The  view  of  the  learned  District  Judge  on  Issue  1  may 
be  stated  thus — The  will  does  not  indicate  with  sufficient 
clearness  the  persons  in  whose  favour  the  prohibition  of 
alienation  is  introduced.  The  case  of  Tina  v.  Sadris'^  shows 
that  the  word  "heirs"  is  too  vague  to  create  a  valid  fidei- 
commissum  even  if  coupled  with  a  prohibition  of  alienation. 
The  respondent's  Counsel  pointed  out  in  this  connection  that, 
in  a  later  paragraph  in  the  will  Bastian  Pulle  describes  Maria 
Bodrigo  as  his  "heiress" — a  term  clearly  meaning  heiress  by 
testamentary  succession. 

The  ruling  in  Tina  v.  Sad  pis'-  that  a  deed  in  favour  of 
A  and  his  heirs  without  specifying  who  is  to  take  the 
property  on  the  death  of  the  first  grantee,  created  no  fidei- 
commissum  merely  by  reason  of  a  prohibition  of  alienation 
having  been  inserted  in  the  deed,  was  that  of  Lawrie  J 
alone.  Fleming  A.  C.  J,  decided  the  case  on  the  ground  that 
the  word  "Administrators",  coupled  with  heirs  "in  the  grant, 
made  it  impossible  to  say  that  it  was  the  clear  intention  of  the 
donor  to  create  a  fidei-commissum.  Dias.  J,  dissented,  and 
held  that  a  valid  fidei-commissum  had  been  created.  It  is 
mainly  in  regard  to  the  effect  of  such  words  in  wills  and 
grants,  alleged  to  create  fidei-commissa,  as  "Executors", 
"Administrators"  and  "Assigns",  that  Tina  v.  Sadris^  has 
been  suj'ported  by  later  decisions-.  The  trend  of  more  recent 
authority,  as  the  learned  District  Ju  Ige  has  himself  shown, 
is  against  the  ratio  decidendi  adopted  by  Lawrie.  J.'' 

But  the  language  of  the  condition  that  we  have  here  to 
interpret  difEers  so  widely  from  the  language  of  the  condition 


1.    1  S.  G.  C.  135. 


2.     {Uni)  14  N.  L.  R.  301  and  autho- 
rities there  collected. 
3.     {1887)  9  S.  G.  G.  S3;    {1909)  1  Gur.  L.  R.  114. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Ill 


in  TiiKt.  iw.  Sadris'^  as  to  make  the  decision  of  Lawrie,  J.  in   Selambram 
that  case  inapplicable,  even  if  it  were  more  in  accordance  ^  ' 


■with  the  authorities  than  it  is.  The  words  "in  perpetuity" 
and  "under  the  bond  of  fidei-commissum"  leave  no  doubt 
in  my  mind  that  the  testator  intended  to  create  a  fidei- 
commissum  and  I  think  that  he  has  used  language  sufficiently 
apt  for  that  purpose. 

The  "heirs"  indicated  must  be  the  heirs  of  the  devisees 
ah  in/rs/at'i.  In  spite  of  the  use  of  the  term  "heiress"  in  the 
will,  in  the  sense  above  imlicated,  the  manifest  intention  of 
the  testator  that  the  property  should  be  kept  in  the  family 
shows  that  it  was  in  favour  of  heirs  ah  intestatu  that  the 
fidei-commissum  was  created.  I  come  now  to  Issue  10.  The 
main  point  urged  in  favour  of  the  contention  that  the  fidei- 
commissum  lapsed  on  the  deaths  of  Ana  and  Maria 
Rodrigo  was  that  they  alone  are  expressly  prohibited  from 
alienating  the  property.  Rut  the  provisions  that  the  property 
is  to  be  "always  held  and  possessed"  by  "the  heirs"  "in 
perpetuity"  "under  the  bond  of  fidei-commissum"  appeared 
to  me  to  show  that  the  prohibition  was  meant  to  affect  heirs 
also. 

I  would  set  aside  the  decree  of  the  Distri(ji  Judge  dis- 
missing the  appellant's  action,  declare  that  will  No.  1370, 
dated  17th  April  1845,  created  a  valid  fidei-commissum  in 
favour  of  the  heirs  ah  intestalo  of  Ana  and  Maria  Rodrigo 
for  the  full  period  allowed  by  law,  and  send  the  case  back  for 
trial  and  adjudication  on  that  basis  on  the  other  issues.  The 
8th  and  9th  defendants  should  pay  to  the  appellants  their 
costs  of  this  appeal.  All  other  costs  should  be  costs  in  the 
cause. 

Set  aside  and^  sent  hack. 

Proctor  for  appellant — Vincent  EJcanayahc. 

Proctor  for  respondents — Emnutnuel  Jayaivardene. 


Perumal 

etal. 

Wood 
Renton,  J. 


/.     {18S5)  7  S.  G.  C.  135. 


112  COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

SOURJAH     i\    UMUL     FALEELA. 

No.  427,  M.  C,  Colombo. 

Present .  Lascelles  C.  J.,  Wood  Renton,  &  Pereira  JJ. 

4th  February,  1913. 

Projections  onttreets  —prosecution  for  defavlt  of  removal— bona-fide 
claim  of  right  based  on  long  possession— claim  untcnaJde—laws  of  prescrip- 
tion not  applicable  to  roads— ^tunicipal  Councils  Ordimrnce  Xo.  6  of  1910, 
§757  and  Road  (Amendment)  Ordinuiice  Xo.  23  of  1910  §  0. 

In  a  prosecution  of  the  appellants  under  §  1S7  of  the  Municipal 
Councils  Ordinance  No.  6  of  1910,  for  having  failed  to  remove  within 
fourteen  days  of  notice  an  alleged  projection  into  the  street,  they  set  up 
a  bona-fide  claim  of  right  to  the  projection  based  on  long  possession. 

Held,  that  the  provisions  of  §6  of  the  Road  (Ameudrcent)  Ordinance, 
which  enacted  that  the  laws  of  prescription  do  not  apply  to  roadd,  were 
fatal  to  the  defence  set  up  by  the  appellants. 

E.  W.  Jayaivarde)ie  for  Appellants: — The  Magistrate 
had  no  jurisdiction  to  try  the  case.  We  put  forward  a  bona-fide 
claim  of  right  to  the  projection  and  the  matter  should  have 
been  referred  to  a  civil  court. 

[Pereira,  J.     Do  you  claim  by  right  of  30  years'  possession.?] 
Not  merely   by  prescription  but   also   and   mainly  by 
paper  title. 

[Pereira,  J.  30  years'  possession  will  not  help  you. 
Ordinance  No.  23  of  1910  enacts  that  the  laws  of  prescription 
do  not  apply  to  roads.] 

We  have  title  to  the  projection  based  on  deeds. 

[Lascelles,  C.  J.  But  you  did  not  put  forward  that 
defence  in  the  Lower  Court,  you  did  not  produce  any 
deed.  The  town  plan  shows  that  the  steps  are  not  yours.] 
The  town  plan  is  not  conclusive  proof  of  title  in  anybody. 
The  projection  is  prima  facie  private  property.  {Akbar  v. 
SletnaLebbe^). 

1.     (1898)2  C.L.R.  175. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


lis 


[Fereira,  J.     What  is  the  date  of  that  judgment  ?]  1893. 

[Pereira,  J.     That  was  before  the  Evidence  Ordinance.    After 
the  Ordinance  such  a  presumption  will  not  arise.] 

Whether  our  claim  might  ultimately  succeed  or  not  in  a 
Civil  Court,  we  set  it  up  bona-fide,  and  the  Magistrate's  juris- 
diction is  ousted  {Soarjuh  v.  Mohamed^.) 

[Wood  Renton,     J. — There  is  a  difference  between  huna-fides 
and  a  hona-fide  claim  of  right.] 

Hayley,  for  respondent,  not  called  upon. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  is  a  case  which  was  reserved 
for  the  opinion  of  the  Fall  Court  on  a  question  of  the  con- 
struction of  Section  157  of  the  Municipal  Councils  Ordinance 
1910.  The  appellants,  who  are  the  owners  of  a  building 
bearing  assessment  Nos.  53-55,  Old  Moor  Street,  were  charged 
and  convicted  under  the  above  mentioned  section  with  hav- 
ing failed  to  remove  within  fourteen  days  of  notice  an 
alleged  projection  or  encroachment  into  the  street  consisting 
of  a  masonry  flight  of  steps  in  front  of  their  house. 

The  argument  for  the  appellants  is  that  they,  at  the  trial, 
set  up  a  hona-fide  claim  of  right  which  ousted  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  convicting  Magistrate.  The  question  which  then 
arose,  and  which  was  reserved  for^the  opinion  of  the  Full 
Court,  was  whether  such  a  defence  was  admissible  in  a 
prosecution  under  Section  157,  inasmuch  as  the  latter 
portion  of  the  Section  apparently  enables  the  Council  to  take 
action  with  regard  to  projections  and  encroachments  which 
have  been  made  lawfully  as  well  as  with  regard  to  those 
which  have  been  made  unlawfully. 

At  the  argument  our  attention  was  directed  to  Section 
(go'' )  added  to  "  The  Road  Ordinance  1861 "  by  Section  6  of 
"  The  Road  (Amendment)  Ordinance  1910",  the  effect  of 
which  is  that  the  laws  under  which  rights  are  acquired  by 
right  of  possession  or  user  do  not  apply  to  roads. 


Sourj*}i 

V. 

Faleela. 

Lascellet, 
C.J. 


1.    2  L.  L.  R.  131. 


IM  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Sourjah  The  effect  of   this   alteration   in  the  law  is  fatal  to  the 

Faleela.     contention  that  the  defendants  sel  up  a  hi  ma-fide  claim  of 

i-ight,  for  the   only  claim  of   right  which  was  seriouisly  put 

Renton  J     forward   was   based   on  long  possession    which,    under    the 

amended  law,  could  not  found  any  claim  to  rights  on  a  road. 

It  is  true  that  where  a  claim  is  made  huna-fidi'-  it  is  not 
the  duty  of  a  Magistrate  to  ascertain  whether  it  is  well 
founded,  but  it  is  well  settled  that  the  j  arisdiction  of  the  Magis- 
trate is  not  ousted  where  it  is  clear  on  admitted  facts  that  the 
law  will  not  admit  of  the  claim  set  up,  where  in  other  words 
the  claim  is  impossible  in  law.  (Vide  Arnold  v.  Morgan'^ 
and  Co/c.s  r.s.  Mi/es'-.) 

In  the  present  case  the  only  ground  set  up  was  one 
which  in  law  could  not  support  the  claim. 

I  am  of  opinion  that  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Magistrate  was 
not  ousted  and  that  the  appeal  should  be  dismissed.  In  the 
circumstances  of  this  particular  case,  and  without  laying 
down  any  rale  as  to  payment  of  costs  in  appeals  of  this 
nature,  I  do  not  think  that  any  order  should  be  made  as  to 
costs. 

Wood  Renton,  J. — There  can  be  no  doubt  as  to  what 
our  decision  in  this  case  must  be.  The  Police  Magistrate 
has  found  as  facts,  and  the  evidence  warrants  the  finding, 
that  the  flight  of  steps  in  front  of  the  appellant's  house 
projects  over  the  pavement  and  stands  on  a  portion  of  the 
street.  The  only  defence  set  up  at  the  trial  in  the  Municipal 
Court  was  a  plea  of  prescriptive  title.  That  is  perfectly  clear 
from  the  Eecord.  But  by  §  6  of  Ordinance  No.  23  of  1910 
the  Legislature  had  declared  that  no  person  shall  be  entitled 
to  any  exclusive  rights  of  ownership,  possession,  or  user  in 
respect  of  any  portion  of  a  road  by  reason  of  his  having, 
whether  before  or  after  the  Ordinance  came  into  operation, 
had  any  possession  or  use  thereof.  The  efEect  of  this  enact- 
ment is  to  exclude  the  sole  defence  relied  upon  at  the  trial. 

1.     {1911)  a  K.  B.  822.        2.     {1888)  57  L.  J.  M.  0.  132. 


Pereira,  J. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  115 

The  appellant  in  his  evidence,  in  reply  to  a  question  by  the  Sourjah 
Court,  said  that  he  had  not  brought  his  deed  with  him.  He  palleela 
dill  not  say,  however,  that  he  had  any  deeds,  and  we  may 
be  quite  sure  that  if  he  had  been  in  a  position  to  set  up  a 
paper  title  he  would  have  done  so  at  the  proper  time.  In  view 
of  the  provisions  of  §  6  of  Ordinance  No.  23  of  1910  it  is  un- 
necessary to  consider  the  question  of  the  a■p^peUa.nt''B  Ion  a-fides. 
Bona-fides  in  cases  of  this  kind  are  not  by  itself  sufficient 
to  exclude  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Police  Magistrate.  There 
must  be  a  hona-flde  claim  of  right.  That  is  to  say,  the 
person  charged  must  be  in  a  position  to  allege  what,  if 
established,  would  be  a  good  legal  ground  of  defence.  (See 
Coles  V.  Miles'^;  Arnold  v.  Morgan-.)  The  appellant  cannot 
do  so  here.     I  would  dismiss  the  appeal. 

Pereira,  J. — It  is  clear  that  the  new  section  (Section 
90")  added  to  "The  Road  Ordinance  1861"  is  fatal  to  the 
right  set  up  by  the  appellant,  and  I  agree  that  the  appeal  be 
dismissed  without  costs. 

I  may  add  that,  in  my  opinion,  the  last  proviso  to 
Section  157  of  "The  Municipal  Councils  Ordinance  1910'' 
does  not  apply  to  a  case  where  a  person  establishes  title  or  a 
right  to  a  portion  of  ground  claimed  as  part  of  a  road,  but  is 
used  by  him  as  his  own  property.  In  that  case  there  would 
be  no  encroachment  on  a  road,  or  destruction  of  it,  or  pro- 
jection over  it.  The  proviso  refers  to  such  encroachments, 
obstructions,  and  projections,  temporary  or  otherwise,  on  or 
over  what  is  proved  to  be,  or  admittedly  is,  road,  and  made  or 
erected  lawfully,  that  is,  for  instance,  with  the  sanction,  where 
such  sanction  is  duly  provided  for  by  law,  of  the  proper 
local  authority. 

Proctor  for  Appellant — N.  H.  M.  Abdul  Cttdrr. 

Proctors  for  Respondent — Jul  Iks  &  Grmsij. 


I.     {1888)  .57  L,  J.  M.  C.  132.       5.     (1911)  2  K.  B.  322, 


IK  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

RAN    MENIKA    ?-.   MUDALIHAMY. 

No.  11,017,  G.  R.,  Kegalle. 

Present:  Lascelles,  C  J. 

27th  January,  1913. 

Kaiidyun  Laiv — acquired  jiivyeriy  of  motlier  (hmated.  to  childivn — stic- 
eessUiri  to  the  children — hitui  mnri-iage — contest  between  fiitlier  and  maternal 
grandmother— exception  to  the  ordinary  rule  of  inheritanee — Snioer  and. 
Armour — ivhich  authority  to  he prefm'red. 

A  Kandyan  woman,  married  in  bina,  donated  during  her  lifetime 
all  lier  acquired  property  to  lier  two  sous.  The  sons  survived  their 
mother,  but  predeceased  their  father  and  maternal  grandmother.  In  a 
contest  between  the  father  and  the  grandmother  as  to  the  suooession, 

Held,  that  the  property  devolved  on  the  maternal  grandmother  in 
preference  to  the  f  ather. 

Per  Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  principle  of  Kandyan  Law  forms  an  excep- 
tion to  the  general  rule  of  inheritance.  It  is  thus  enunciated  by  Sawer  : 
"The  father  is  not  the  heir  of  the  property  of  his  children  born  in  a 
"bimi  marriage,  which  they  have  acquired  through  their  mother  ;  the 
"maternal  uncles  or  next  of  kin  on  the  mother's  cide  being  the  heirs  to 
"such  property  ;  but  the  father  will  succeed  to  such  children's  property, 
"if  otherwise  acquired." 

Where  Snuvr  and  Armour  are  in  contiict  .•<<iirer  is  the  preferent 
authority. 

Appiihamy  c.  Dinyiri  Menilin'^  followed. 

Bawa,  K.  C,  for  the  plaintiff-appellant.  The  property 
in  question  is  "acquired"  property. 

The  authorities  as  to  the  devolution  of  a  'woman's  acquir- 
ed property  are  collected  in  21„ddpr  pp.  186  et  seq.  Sawer 
gives  two  tables  of  succession,  and  it  would  appear  that 
table  B  is  the  one  to  be  followed  in  the  case  of  acquired 
property.  [See  Pvnrhirahi  r.  Puiirhi  Mi'iiilfa:' ■  MvdaJi- 
hamy  v.  Bandirala^.'] 

1.     9  S.  a  C.  34.         2.     2  S.  0.  G.  44. 
3.     3  N.  L.  H.  200, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  117 

[Lascelles,  C.  J.    Is  there  not  a  case  more  recent  ?    A.  Si.  V.      Menika 
Jayawardene, — Yes,  Dingiri  Batida  v.  Kiri bandar  Mudalikamy. 

In  Ukkuhamy  v.  Bala  Etana-  the  mother  has  been 
held  to  be  the  sole  heir  to  a  fatherless  child. 

In  the  case  of  Ranhotia  v.  Bilinda^  it  was  held  that 
where  a  person  died  childless  and  unmarried,  his  acquir- 
ed property  devolved  on  his  father  to  the  exclusion  of  his 
brother.  A  Ujrtiari  would  a  granduncle  (on  the  mother's 
Bide)  be  excluded. 

The  decision  in  Dingiri  Banda  v.  Kii'i  Bni/da*  ia  not 
really  in  conflict  with  my  contention.  There  the  maternal 
uncle  is  preferred  to  the  jiaternal  half-brother. 

The  father  is  undoubtedly  heir  in  respect  of  the  child's 
acquired  property  [^Pprfra's  Armour  p.  SS.] 

A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene,  for  defendant-respondent.  Here 
the  father  is  a  hina  husband,  and  a  distinction  therefore 
arises.  The  rights  of  a  liina  husband  differ  from  that  of  diga 
husband.  [Vide  .5-56',  U.  R.,  Keg  all  e  6,766,  S.  C.  M.  ;2^  Feb  , 
1906.']  The  father  married  in  bina  is  not  the  heir  to  the 
property  of  a  child  acquired  from  the  mother  but  the  pro- 
perty must  go  to  relatives  on  the  mother's  side. 

[Lascelles,  C.  J.     Does  that  refer  to  property  acquired  in  any 
particular  way  ?] 

No,  to  property  acquired  in  any  way. 

The  husband  is  not  the  heir  to  his  wife's  property. 

The  maternal  relatives  are  preferred  to  the  father  of  a 
woman  dying  intestate  in  respect  of  property  acquired  from 
her  mother.     [Apj/nlniniy  r.  Dingiri  MeniJea'''] 

Here,  the  mother  made  a  gift  of  property  in  favour  of 
her  children  with  a  life   interest  in  favoiir  of   her  husband 


1.  {1911)  14  N.  L.  R.  510.        3.     (1909)  IS  N.  L.  R.  111. 

2.  (1908)  11  N.L.  R.  226.        4.     (1911)  14  N.  L.  R.  510. 

5.     9  S.  C.  a  34. 


lis  COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES. 

Menika      and  mother.     If  she  had  not  gifted  it  would  have  become  the 
Mudalihamy.  property  of  her  children  and  then  the  hina  husband   would 
have  had  no  right.     The  principle  of   succession   has  been 
C.  J.    '    correctly  laid  down  in  Dingiri  Banda  v,  Kiri  Bcmda'^. 

Baiva,  K.  0.,  in  reply. 

The  case  of  A2J2mhamy  v.  Di»giri  Menika^  iB  not  in 
point. 

Lascellet,  C.  J. — This  appeal  raises  a  rather  obscure 
point  in  the  Kandyan  Law  of  succeaaion.  The  propositi 
are  Punchi  Banda  and  Punchiappuhami.  The  question  is 
whether,  on  the  death  of  these  two  persons  intestate  in  the 
lifetime  of  their  father  Menikrala  their  property  devolved 
on  their  father  who  is  now  represented  by  the  plaintiff- 
appellant,  or,  as  the  learned  Commissioner  has  held,  on  their 
maternal  grandmother  Dingiri  Amma. 

The  first  step  in  the  inquiry  is  to  ascertain  the  nature 
of  the  property,  whether  it  is  ancestral  "paraveni"  or 
acqviired  property.  On  this  there  is  no  room  for  doubt.  The 
property,  which  consists  of  lands,  was  the  acquired  property 
of  Pnnchi  Meiiika,  the  mother  of  the  jirajKinili,  and  she  donated 
it  to  the  popusiti  reserving  a  life  interest  in  half  the  land  in 
favour  of  her  husband  and  of  her  own  mother  Dingiri 
Amma. 

The  character  of  the  property  is  thus  not  open  to  doubt 
(vide  definition  of  the  term  L«</////?/ in  Armour,  chapter  6 
^  1).  It  is  in  the  technical  language  of  the  Kandyan  Law 
"acquired"  and  not  "ancestral"  ^Jnraneiii  property.  This 
being  so  the  question  at  first  sight  would  appear  to  be  readily 
determinable  by  the  tables  given  in  the  text  books  for  the 
succession  to  acquired  property.  Two  tables  of  succession 
are  given  in  different  editions  of  Sawers.  Both  are  set  out  in 
Modder  on  pages  18(i  and  187.  But  in  both  cases  on  the  death 
of   the   child  intestate   his  acquired  property  goes  (1)  to  the 

i.   y  s.  c.  G.  34, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES.  119 

mother,  and  (2)  to  the  father,  (3)  to  brothers  and  sisters  of  the      Menika 
whole  blood,  {-t)  brothers  and  sisters  uterine  of  the  half  blood.  Mudali'hamy. 
There   is   some  difference  between  the  two  tables  as  regards 
the  subsequent  order  of  succession,  but  this  is  not  material  to      *c.^J.**' 
the  question  under  consideration. 

Thus  according  to  the  general  rules  of  succession  the 
plaintiff,  as  representing  the  father  of  the  jtropimifl,  their 
mother  being  dead,  would  appear  to  be  entitled  to  succeed, 
and  this  was  the  view  to  which  I  was  inclined  at  the  close  of 
the  argument.  Further  consideration,  however,  has  convinc- 
ed me  that  this  opinion  is  not  right. 

I  have  been  referred,  amongst  other  authorities,  to  h'aii- 
liiilia  V.  Bilinda^  and  UklnMiainy  v.  Babad  al-  ;  but  these 
cases  are  merely  examples  where  the  courts  have  followed 
the  general  rules  of  succession  laid  down  in  the  text  books 
for  the  devolution  of  acquired  property  on  the  death  of  a  son 
or  daughter  intestate.  They  do  not  touch  the  point  on  which 
the  Commissioner  has  decided  the  case. 

The  learned  Commissioner  bases  his  judgment  on  a 
principle  of  KanJyan  Law  which  forms  an  exception  to  the 
general  rule  of  inheritence.  It  is  thus  enunciated  by  Sawer 
(page  14)  :  "The  father  is  not  the  heir  of  the  property  of  his 
"children  born  in  a  hina  marriage,  which  they  have  acquired 
"through  their  mother  ;  the  maternal  uncles  or  next  of  kin 
"on  the  mother's  side  being  the  heir  to  such  property  ;  but 
"the  father  will  succeed  to  such  children's  property  if  other- 
"wise  acquired." 

There  can  be  no  doubt  with  regard  to  this  exception  to 
the  ordinary  rule  of  inheritance.  It  is  reproduced  by 
Marshall  (page  344)  amongst  the  other  rules  of  succession. 
(Vide  also  INIodder  page  1<J5.)  Nor  can  there  be  any  doubt 
as  to  the  applicability  of  this  rule  to  the  present  case.  The 
property   here   was  clearly  "acquired  through  their  mother". 

The   appellant's  case  as  shewn  by   paragraph  7  (iii.)  of 
1.     (1909)  12  N.  L.  B.  111.      a.     {1908)  11  N.  L.  R.  236. 


120  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASSS. 

Menika  his  petition  of  appeal  is  based  on  the  authority  of  the  foUow- 
Mudalihamy  ^^^  passage  in  Perera's  Armour  (p.  77)  :  "But  if  the  child 
"albeit  the  issue  of  a  bina  connection  had  remained  under 
^"c^J**'  "*^^  father's  care  after  the  mother's  demise,  in  that  case  the 
"father  will  be  entitled  to  a  reversion  of  the  child's  estate 
'•in  preference  to  any  child's  distant  maternal  relations 
"(mother's  granduncle's  son,  for  instance)  and  that  whether 
"the  father  was  or  was  not  also  an  Ewessa  cousin  of  the  said 
child's  mother." 

This  apparent  conflict  between  Sawer  and  Armour  was 
iliscuBBed  by  the  Collective  Court  in  Appuhami  v.  Ding  in' 
Mftiika^  (which  was  a  case  of  ancestral  paravrni  property), 
with  the  result  that  the  opinion  of  Sawer  was  followed,  and 
Sir  Charles  Marshall's  view  was  followed. 

Lawrie,  J.,  in  G.  B.,  Kurunegala  4944-  seems  to  have 
had  some  doubts  as  to  the  correctness  of  this  decision.  But 
the  decision  of  the  Collective  Court  on  the  relative  values  of 
the  conflicting  authorities  is  binding  on  me,  and  in  any  case 
I  could  not  have  held  that  the  passage  in  Armour  was  appli- 
cable t^  the  facts  of  the  present  case.  As  a  matter  of  con- 
struction I  should  have  held  that  it  was  applicable  only  to 
cases  where  claimants  in  the  maternal  line  stood  in  a  more 
remote  degree  of  relationship  to  the  j^ropositus  than  that  of 
great  aunt. 

For  the  above  reasons  I  think  the  judgment  of  the 
learned  Commissioner  is  right,  and  1  dismiss  the  appeal  with 

costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant—  W.  O.  Herat. 

Proctor  for  respondent — ,4.  A.    Wickremesi-nghc. 


1.    9  S.  C.  C.  34.       2.    S.  C.  M.  SOth  May,  1S§8. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  l21 

DE   SILVA    V.   DE    SILVA. 
No.  33,358,  D.  C,  Colombo. 
Pri'seiit     Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  Wood  Renton,  J. 

7th    February,  1913. 

Informal  lease — interest  in  land— eau  damaf/es  he  claimed  fur  breach 
of  tite  lease. — Ordininwe  Xo.  7  of  1840 — claim  fur  use  luul  ucriqiatiiin — re- 
covery of  adi:a)tce — -terms  of  luformnl  aijreement — how  far  admissible  iff 
evidence . 

An  action  for  damag-es  cannot  be  maintained  for  the  breach  of  the 
terms  of  an  informal  agreement  of  lease. 

Per  Wood  Renton,  J. — Where  an  informal  agreement  for  a  lease  has 
been  partly  executed,  the  lessor  is  entitled  to  a  reasonable  sum  in  respect 
of  the  actual  use  and  occupation  of  the  premises  demised  to  the  lessee. 
In  the  sams  way  where  the  lessee  has  not  had  the  use  and  occupation  of 
the  premises  demised  in  respect  of  which  the  lessor  has  received  con- 
sideration there  must  be  such  a  refund  of  the  consideration  as  we  have 
ordered  to  be  made  here.  It  vpill  be  open  to  either  the  lessor  or  the  lessee 
for  the  purpose  of  such  a  claim  based  on  use  and  occupation  as  I  have 
just  referred,  to  put  in  evidence  the  terms  of  the  informal  agreement 
itself. 

Sampayo,  K.  0.,  for  the  appellant. 

H.  J.  G.  Pereira,  for  the  respondent. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — The  appeal  raises  u  point  which,  in 
one  form  or  other,  has  frequently  occupied  the  attention  of 
our  Courts.  The  question  involved  in  the  appeal  is  as  to  the 
extent  to  which  our  Courts  will  relax  the  provisions  of  Ordi- 
nance No.  7  of  1810  on  equitable  grounds  in  cases  where  pos- 
session his  been  had  under  an  iaformal  agreement  of  lease. 
The  facts  of  the  present  case  are  undisputed  and  very  simple. 
The  defendant,  by  an  informal  lease,  purported  to  let  a 
cinnamon  plantation  to  the  plaintiff  for  four  years  from  the 
5th  of  November,  1908.  No  question  arises  as  to  the  first 
two  years  of  the  tenancy.  The  plaintiff  paid  the  rent  in 
advance  and  was  allowed  to  take  the  produce  of  the  estate. 
When  it  came  to  the  third  year,  which  expired  on  the  5th  of 
March,  1911,  the  plaintiff,  who  had  paid  in  advance  the  rent 


122 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Silva 

Silva. 

Lascelles, 
C.  J. 


of  Rb.  60,  was  disturbed  in  his  occupation.  Before  he  had 
harvested  the  cinnamon  of  that  season  the  defendant  had  let 
the  estate  to  a  third  party,  and  so  the  plaintifE  entirely  lost 
the  harvest  of  that  season.  The  plaintifE  in  his  plaint  claim- 
ed damages  for  the  year  1911,  and  he  also  claimed  that  he 
might  be  given  possession  of  the  property  for  the  following 
year  or  in  the  alternative  that  he  should  be  awarded  damages. 
The  learned  District  Judge  has  awarded  him  damages  in  res- 
pect of  the  third  year  ending  in  November,  1911.  The  basis 
of  that  judgment  is  that  the  agreement,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
learned  District  Judge,  was  not  one  of  letting  and  hiring,  but 
that  the  true  nature  was  an  obligation  to  deliver  the  crop 
of  the  cinnamon  estate  for  a  certain  year  at  a  specified  rate  ; 
and  on  the  authority  of  the  case  of  Wall  J-  Co.  v.  Schraachr'^ 
the  Uistrict  Judge  has  awarded  damages  to  the  plaintiff.  In 
my  opinion  the  judgment  cannot  be  supported  on  this  ground. 
If  reference  is  made  to  the  informal  agreement  (PI)  it  will 
be  found  that  it  includes  all  the  essential  elements  of  a  lease 
save  that  it  is  an  informal  document  not  executed  before  a 
Notary.  Further,  the  claim  of  the  plaintiff,  as  disclosed  in 
his  plaint,  is  laid  on  a  lease.  I  am  clearly  of  opinion  that 
the  transaction  between  the  parties  was  not  of  letting  and 
hiring,  and  that  it  was  a  transaction  to  which  the  provisions 
of  Ordinance  7  of  1840  are  applicable.  Then  the  question 
arises  as  to  how  far  the  Court  will  interfere  to  relieve  the 
plaintiff  on  equitable  grounds.  Numerous  authorities  on  this 
question  were  exhaustively  examined  by  Mr.  de  Sampayo, 
and  I  think  that  it  is  only  necessary  for  me  here  to  refor  to 
two  of  them.  The  first  is  the  well-known  case  of  Perera  v. 
Fernando-.  There  it  was  held  that,  where  an  occupier  had 
been  in  possession  under  an  informal  lease,  the  owner  of  the 
land  was  able  to  recover  against  him  for  use  and  occupation. 
This  is  an  authority  which  has  been  frequently  followed,  and 
is  no  doubt  good  law  in  Ceylon.  But  the  question  at  issue 
here  is  an  altogether  different  one.  The  claim  of  the  plain- 
tiff is  for  damages  on  the  ground  that  he  was  interfered  in 


1.    Ram. 'eS-'dS  p.  S84.        2.    Ham. '63-68  p.  8S. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


123 


his  occupation  of   the   land  in   the  third   year.     His  claim 
amounts  to  this.     He  says  :  "I  have  an  interest  in  the  land  for 
"that  year.   You  have  interfered  with  that  interest,  and,  there- 
"fore,  you  are  liable  to  pay  me  damages."     But  it  is  plain   to 
me  that,  if  the  basis  of  his  action  is,  as  I  understand  it  to  be, 
a  claim  to  an  interest  in  land,"  his   claim   is   bad   because   he 
cannot   obtain   such  an  interest  -without  a  notarial  document 
in  his  favour.     A  very  similar  case  was   decided  by  the  full 
Court  in  1909.    I  refer  to  the  case  Percra  v.  Amarasooriya'^ . 
There   an   authority   had  been  given  to  enter  land  and  pros- 
pect for  plumbago  and  to  work  the  mines  there.     The  autho- 
rity  had   been   informally   given,  and  it  was  held  that  there 
was  no  right  for  damages  for  the   breach  of   such   an   agree- 
ment. In  that  case  it  was  clearly  pointed  out  that  the  English 
doctrine  of  part  performance  had  not  been   fully   recognised 
in  Ceylon,  probably,  I  should  think,  because  the  terms  of  the 
Ceylon  Ordinance  are  different  from  and  more  stringent  than 
those  of  the  English  Statute  of  Frauds.     The  case  to  which  I 
have   referred  appears  to  me  to  be  a  direct  authority  on  the 
question  under  consideration.    It  is  a  judgment  of  the  Collec- 
tive  Court,   and  is  binding  on  us,  and,  if  I  may  respectfully 
say  so,  I  entirely  agree   with   the  reasoning   on   which   that 
judgment  is  founded.     It  has  been  argued  that  the  effect  of 
the  informal  agreement  is   to   place  the  plaintiff   in   a  posi- 
tion of  the  tenant  at   will.     It  may  be  that  it  is  so.    But,  as 
was  pointed  out  in  argument,  if  he  is  only  a  tenant  at  will  he 
has   surely   no   ground   for  claiming  anything    more    than 
nominal  damages  for  disturbance.    It  is  not  disputed  that  the 
plaintiff  is  entitled  to  a  refund  of  the   Rs.  60  which  he   has 
paid  in  respect  of  the  year  1911.  The  judgment  of  the  District 
Court   will,   therefore,   be  modified  to  the  extent  of  entering 
damages  only  for  the  sum  of  Rs.  60. 

With  regard  to  the  costs,  the  case,  as  far  as  the  plaintiff 
is  concerned,  is  a  somewhat  hard  one,  and  we  think  that  the 
fair  order  as  to  costs  is  that  the  plaintiff  is  to  have  his  costs 
of  his  claim  in  the  Court  below  on  the  scale   applicable  to   a 


Silva 

V. 

Silva. 

Lascelles, 
C.  J. 


i,     {1909)  12  N.  L,  R.  87. 


124  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Silva       claim  of  Re.  60  ;   that  the  order  as  to  the  claim  in  reconyeii- 

gi^^a.       tion   should   stand,  and  that  each  side  should  pay  their  own 

costs  of  the  appeal. 
Wood 

Renton.  J.  y^o^d  Rcnton,  J— I  entirely  agree,  and  I  will  add  a 

few  words.  The  principle  to  be  deduced  from  the  decisions 
may  be  stated  thus:  Where  an  informal  agreement  for 
a  lease  has  been  partly  executed,  the  lessor  is  entitled  to  a 
reasonable  sum  in  respect  of  the  actual  use  and  occupation 
of  the  premises  demised  by  the  lessee.  In  the  same  way, 
where  the  lessee  has  not  had  the  use  and  occupation  of  the 
premises  demised  in  respect  of  which  the  lessor  has  received 
consideration,  there  must  be  such  a  refund  of  the  considera- 
tion as  we  have  ordered  to  be  made  here.  It  will  be  open 
to  either  the  lessor  or  the  lessee,  for  the  purposes  of  such  a 
claim  based  on  use  and  occupation  a^  I  have  just  referred  to, 
to  put  in  evidence  the  terms  of  the  informal  agreement  itself. 
But  both  the  language  of  §  2  of  Ordinance  7  of  1840  and  the 
decision  of  this  Court  in  Parrra  v.  Ainn/ri.soofit/a^  preclude 
the  lessee  from  putting  forward  successfully  on  the  basis  of 
an  informal  agreement  a  claim  to  which  effect  can  only  be 
given  on  the  ground  that  he  has  "an  interest  in  the  land".  I 
felt  strongly  attracted  during  the  argument  yesterday  by  the 
view  that  perhaps  the  decision  of  the  learned  District  Judge 
could  be  supported  in  its  entirety  on  the  ground  of  estoppel. 
It  is  clear  that  agreements,  which  are  obnoxious  to  the  provi- 
sions of  §  i)  of  Ordinance  7  of  1840,  while  they  are  invalid, 
are  not  illegal,  at  least  in  the  sense  that  they  are  prohibited 
by  law :  and  there  might  perhapti  be  circumstances  under 
which  an  estoppel  might  fairly  arise.  The  appellant,  in  the 
present  case,  has  had  the  advantage  of  the  consideration  for 
the  lease,  and  h:is,  in  the  conduct  of  her  defence  at  the  ti'ial, 
relied  on  the  informal  agreement  as  a  foundation  for  a 
claim  for  damages,  and  not  merely  for  the  purpose  of  show- 
ing what  the  terms  of  the  actual  use  and  occupation  were. 
But  it  mast  be  borne  in  mind,  on  the  other  hand,  that  this 
course   was   adopted  only  in  her  answer,  and  was  so  adopted 

(iOO.9)  12  N.  L.  R.  87. 


COURT    OF     APPEA.L    CASES.  125 

in  the  answer  to  a  phiintiff,  who  was  suing  upon  an  informal 
as  if  it  had  been  a  valid  lease,  and  was  claiming  that  the 
appellant  should  be  ejected  from  the  premises,  and  sh(>uld 
pay  damages  in  the  usual  anil  ordinary  sense  of  the  term. 
Under  these  circumstances  whether  or  not  the  plea  of  estop- 
pel would  be  held  to  arise  in  other  cases  I  do  not  think 
that  effect  can  be  given  to  it  here.  I  agree  that  the  appeal 
should  be  disposed  of  in  the  terms  stated  by  my  Lord. 

Juclg»)ent  modified. 

Proctor  for  appellant — E.  W.  Percra. 

Proctor  for  respondent — G.  A.  dp  Si/ra. 


DEONIS    V.    LA  BONIS. 
No.  6,868,  C.  R.,  Matara. 
Present:   Pereira,    J. 
10th  February,  1913. 

JiirixfUrtiiin  —  fiiiirf  uf  Itrqiirxt.i — I'emuiiidi'r  of  the  term  of  the  Ipokp — 
chimagrs  joi-  heimj  h  'pt  out  of  piixn.'xxion  hffon'  notion- — rnlin'  of  rii/Iit  in- 
rolr.'d. 

Where  the  plaintiff  alleged  an  ouster,  and  cl  timed  a  right  of  posses- 
eion  for  the  remainder  of  the  term  of  a  lease  and  also  claimed  damages 
for  having  been  iept  out  of  possession  for  the  period  before  action, 

I/pId,  that  the  value  of  the  plaintiff's  right  to  possession  must  be 
calculated  as  for  the  full  terra  of  the  lease,  as  the  plaintiff  can  be  award- 
ed damages  for  the  period  before  action  only  on  the  footing  that  he 
was  denied  possession  on  the  lease. 

The  plaintiff  instituted  this  action  on  a  lease  dated  11th 
August,  1911,  due  to  commence  from  the  11th  October,  1911, 
alleging  that  the  1st  and  2nd  defendants  disputed  the  plain- 
tiff's right  to  possession  under  the  lease.  He  complained  that 
on  the  nth  October,  1911,  the  defendants  ousteil  him  and  had 
remained  in  the  possession  of  the  land  to  plaintiflE's  damage 
of    Us.  150.     Plaintiff   valued  the  remainder  of  the  term  of 


126 

Deonis 

V. 

Labonis. 
Pereira,  J. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

the  lease  at  Rs.  250.  The  defendants  contended  that  the 
Com-L  uf  Requests  had  no  jurisdiction.  The  Commissioner 
of  Requests  upheld  the  objection,  holding  that  there  were 
two  independent  substantive  claims,  and  dismissed  the  plain- 
tiff's action  with  costs. 

Vernoti  Grniirr,  for  the  plaintiff-appellant. — The  claim 
for  damages  is  ancillary  to  the  right  of  possession.  The  right 
of  possession  is  worth  Rs.  250.  The  Court  of  Requests  has, 
therefore,  jurisdiction.  The  principle  laid  down  in  Cassini 
V.  Sanhaif^  would  apply.  The  lessee's  interest  as  stated  in 
the  plaint  is  confined  to  the  remainder  of  the  term  of  the 
lease.  The  value  of  that  term  alone  decides  that  jurisdiction. 
(See  Silva  v.  Silva  ^;   Jnhn  Silvu  v.  Jiilis  Appu^.) 

E.  ir.  Jnyaivardene,  for  defendants-respondents. — This 
case  differs  from  Gassim  v.  Sanhait^  and  the  other  cases.  In 
those  cases  the  valae  of  the  land  was  in  dispute.  Here  the 
remainder  of  a  term  of  a  lease  has  to  be  valued.  To  that  is 
added  a  distinctive  claim  for  damages.  In  reality  the  value 
of  the  whole  term  of  the  lease  has  to  be  discovered.  Tha^; 
value  clearly  exceeds  Rs.  ;-500.  (See  Diiiyiri  Hainy  v.  Hora- 
laJa-^;  MarLachhil  r.  Mait/an/r\)  Wood  Renton,  J.,  decided 
(JasK/'m  V.  Saithait^  with  hesitation,  and  expressed  that  same 
hesitation  in  Cam  r.  Arolis'\ 

The  Court  of  Requests  has  no  juris  liction  where  the 
matter  involved  exceeds  Rs.  300  in  value.  The  principle 
underlying  the  Ordinance  being  that  a  Court  of  Requests, 
being  a  Court  of  inferior  jurisdiction,  is  not  authorised  to  deal 
with  matters  which  even  in  the  aggregate  exceed  Rs.  iJOO  in 
value.  The  decisions  as  regards  damages  being  ancillary 
(Ciissim  V.  Sanh((it\  &c.)  deserve  re-consideration. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira,  J. —  It  is  not  necessary  that  I  should  express 
my  view  of  the  point  involved  in  the  case  of  Gassim  v.  San- 


1. 

3  J-lal.  20. 

4. 

8  S.  C.  G.  121. 

2. 

S.  G.  D.  62. 

5. 

8  S.  G.  G.  138. 

3. 

10  N.  L.  E.  351. 

6, 

10  N,  L,  n.  173^ 

COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


127 


hait^  ciied  in  the  course  of  the  argument  in  appeal.  The 
decision  in  that  case  has,  in  my  opinion,  no  application 
to  the  present  case.  Under  §  77  of  the  Courts  Ordinance 
Courts  of  Requests  have  jurisdiction  over  actions  in  which 
the  right  to  the  postsession  of  any  land  is  in  dispute,  provided 
that  the  right  or  interest  in  dispute  does  not  exceed  Rs.  300. 
In  the  present  case  the  right  really  in  dispute  is  a  right  to 
possess  a  third  of  the  Ian  Is  referred  to  iu  the  plaint  from 
the  11th  October,  1911,  and  the  entirety  of  the  lands  from 
.January,  1912,  until  the  11th  October,  1913,  because  the  aver- 
ment in  the  plaint  is  that  the  defendant  ousted  the  plaintiff 
from  a  third  of  the  lands  on  the  llth  October,  1911,  and  from 
the  entirety  of  the  lauds  in  January,  1912.  I  say  this,  be- 
cause, although  the  plaintiff  claims  to  be  declared  entitled  to 
the  possession  of  the  lands  for  the  "remainder  of  the  term  of 
the  lease",  the  question  of  the  plaintiff's  right  to  possession 
from  the  llth  October,  1911,  is  involved,  and  has  to  be  de- 
cided by  the  Court,  because  it  is  only  on  the  footing  of  that 
right  that  the  plaintiff  can  be  awarded  the  damage  of  Rs.  150 
that  he  claims.  That  being  so,  the  value  of  the  right  to 
possession  from  the  llth  October,  1911,  until  the  llth  Octo- 
ber, 1913,  has  to  be  ascertained.  The  value  of  the  right  to 
the  possession  of  the  lands  from  13th  May,  1912,  until  the 
llth  October,  1910,  has  been  assessed  by  the  plaintiff  himself 
at  Rs.  250.  On  a  calculation  on  that  footing  I  find  that  the 
value  of  the  right  to  possess  during  the  whole  period  men- 
tioned above  would  exceed  the  sum  of  Rs.  300.  I  therefore 
arrive  at  the  same  conclusion  as  that  arrived  at  by  the  Com- 
missioner, but  for  reasons  different  from  those  given  by  him. 

Affirmi'd. 

Proctors  for  appellant.— G<.  E.  &  G.  P.  Keininiirni. 

Pro(  tor  for  respondent.— i)rtv/rf  Siunarnu'i'crn. 


Deonia 
LaboniB. 
Pereira,  J. 


1.    3  Bal.  20. 


12g  COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

OMER   V.  FERNANDO. 

No.  31,771,  D.  C,  Colombo. 

Prr.mt:   Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  Wood  Renton.  J. 

6th  February,  1913. 

Issue  of  n<nf-(leath  of  judijm^.id-deUoi—sekare  and  xolr  of  iiropertu 
after  death  of  jiujyment-dehtor-legal  i-epresentutive  not  substituted  as  defend- 
ant of  reeord—sale  confirmed^are  seizure  a nd  sale  valid  f^Cifil  Pro- 
cedure Code  §§  341  awl  344. 

Where  after  the  death  of  the  judgment-debtor  the  judgment-creditor 
seized  and  sold  in  execution  certain  property  belonging  to  the  estate  of 
the  judgment-debtor  without  making  the  legal  representative  of  the 
judgment-debtor  a  party  on  the  record  in  terms  of  §  3±1  of  the  Code, 

Held,  that  such  seizure  and  sale  were  bad. 

It  is  no  answer  that  the  sale  was  confirmed  by  the  Court,  inasmuch 
as  the  property  was  never  brought  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court 
by  means  of  a  lawful  seizure,  and  the  order  confirming  the  sale  was  made 
under  the  mistaken  belief  that  the  Court  had  jurisdiction,  which  it,  in 
fact,  had  not,  to  confirm  the  Bale. 

The  facts  appear  in  the  judgment  of  Lascelles,  C.  J. 

E.  W.  Jayewardene  (with  Zoysci)  for  the  plaintiflf-appel- 
lant. — There  has  been  no  application  to  set  aside  the  sale.  The 
present  motion  is  to  draw  the  money  which  is  in  Court.  A 
separate  action  should  have  been  brought  to  set  aside  the  sale. 
The  sale  has  been  confirmed  without  objection,  and  it  is  too 
late  to  move  in  this  very  action  to  set  aside  the  sale.  The 
debtor  died  after  writ  issued,  and  it  does  not  matter  that  the 
seizure  was  after  his  death.  The  principles  laid  down  in 
Malkarjun  v.  Narpari'^  and  Shea  Prasad  v.  Rira  Lal- 
would  apply. 

It  must  be  proved  that  damage  resulted  from  the  irregu- 
larity.    (§  282  Civil  Procedure  Code,  and  (S'/Vi'a  v.  Dias^,) 

Barthol(>meiisz,iov  substituted  defendants-respondents. — 

1.     I.  L.  R.  25  Bom.  S37.      2.     I.  L.  li.  12  All.  443. 
3.     {1910)  13  N.  L.  R.  125. 


COURT     OF     APPKAI.     C.\SES. 


1:^9 


All  questions  relating  to  execution  should  be  determined  in 
the  same  action,  and  not  in  a  separate  action.  The  seizure 
was  bad,  as  the  debtor  was  dead  at  the  time.  In  any  event, 
there  was  no  application  to  set  aside  the  sale',  but  only  an 
objection  to  the  withdrawal  of  the  money. 

E.  W.  Jayewardene  in  reply. 

Lascelles,  C  J. — This  is  an  appeal  from  an  order  of 
the  District  Judge  setting  aside  a  judicial  sale  in  the  follow- 
ing circumstances.  A  writ  was  re-issued  to  recover  the 
balance  of  the  judgment  debt;  and  on  the  12th  August,  1911, 
a  land  called  Hitinawatte  was  seized,  but  before  the  date  of 
seizure  the  judgment- debtor  died.  A  sale  was  held  on  the 
30th  March,  1912,  and  confirmed  on  the  10th  of  June,  presum- 
ably in  ignorance  of  the  death  of  the  execution-debtor.  On 
the  21st  June,  on  the  motion  of  the  plaintifE's  proctor,  the 
administratrix  and  administrator  of  the  judgment-debtor's 
estate  were  substituted  on  the  record  as  defendants. 

On  the  2nd  August  the.  judgment-creditor's  proctor 
moved  to  draw  from  the  money  in  Court  the  balance  due  to 
his  client.  The  substituted  defendants  were  noticed,  and 
also  the  purchaser ;  and  the  former  showed  cause  against  the 
judgment-creditor's  rnotion.  The  learned  District  Judge 
held  that  the  seizure  and  sale  were  bad,  inasmuch  as  they 
took  place  after  the  death  of  the  defendant  and  while  there 
was  no  one  on  the  record  representing  the  estate  of  the  de- 
ceased defendant.  The  sale  was  accordingly  set  aside  and 
the  amount  of  the  purchase  money  in  Court  directed  to  be 
returned  to  the  purchaser. 

On  appeal  it  was  contended  that  the  order  setting  aside 
.the  sale  was  bad,  inasmuch  as  it  was  not  made  on  any  appli- 
cation for  that  purpose,  and  also  on  the  ground  that  a  judi- 
cial sale  cannot  be  set  aside  on  the  ground  of  irregularity, 
however  material,  unless  it  is  shewn  that  the  applicant  'has 
spstained  substantial  injury. 

With  regard  to  the  first  point,  it  appears  that  when  the 
substituted   defendants  appeared  to  show  cause  against  the 


Omer 

V. 

Fernando. 

Lascelles, 
C  J. 


130  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES. 


Fernando. 

Lascelles, 
C  J. 


Omer  withdrawal  of  the  money  deposited  in  Court  they  specifical- 
ly raised  the  contention  that  the  sale  was  bad,  and  in  efEect 
applied  that  it  should  be  set  aside.  In  view  of  the  attitude  of 
the  substituted  defendants  I  am  not  disposed  to  attach  much 
weight  to  the  objection  that  the  sale  was  set  aside  without 
formal  application  on  that  behalf.  Neither  do  I  think  that  it 
can  be  contended  that  the  sale  could  not  have  been  set  aside 
without  instituting  an  action  for  the  purpose. 

The  question  arising  between  the  parties  was  for  all 
practical  purposes  sufficiently  formulated  :  it  was  a  question 
"relating  to  the  execution  of  the  decree",  and  as  such  properly 
determinable  under  §  344  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  by 
the  Court  executing  the  decree  and  not  by  separate  action. 

The  decision  of  the  Privy  Council  in  Malkarjun  v. 
Narpari^  throws  much  light  on  the  principles  which  nre 
applicable  to  difficulties  of  this  nature.  The  crucial  ques- 
tion is,  whether  the  sale  was  a  nullity,  a  sale  which  the  Court 
had  no  jurisdiction  to  make  ;  or  whether  on  the  other  hand 
it  was  merely  irregular,  so  that  the  provisions  of  the  Code 
with  regard  to  irregularities  in  sales  are  applicable.  It  would 
appear  that  if  the  failure  to  apply  under  §  341  is  no  more 
than  an  irregularity,  the  present  order  cannot  stand  in  the 
absence  of  evidence  of  substantial  injury  to  the  execution- 
debtor's  estate. 

If,  however,  the  seizure  amounted  in  law  to  a  nullity,  the 
property  in  question  was  never  brought  within  the  custody 
of  the  Court,  and  the  subsequent  sale  was  consequently  void. 

The  answer  to  this  question  appears  to  me  to  turn  on 
the  construction  of  §  341  of  the  Procedure  Code.  The  mean- 
ing of  this  section,  as  I  understand  it,  is  that  if  the  decree- 
holder  wishes  to  execute  his  decree  against  property  which 
belonged  to  his  judgment-debtor  in  his  lifetime  and  which 
devolved  on  his  representative  at  his  death,  he  can  do  so 
only  in  the  way  indicated  by  the  Code,  namely,  by  applying 

I.    I.L.  H.  S5  Bom.  337, 


COURT    01?    APPEAL    CASES. 


131 


to  the  Court  to  execute  the  decree  against  the  legal  represen- 
tative. The  principle  appears  to  be  clear.  On  the  death  of 
the  judgment-debtor  the  dominium  vests  in  his  legal  repre- 
sentative. The  legal  representative  cannot  be  bound  by  pro- 
ceedings to  which  he  is  not  a  party. 

It  has  been  held  in  India  (vide  Sheo  Prasad  v.  Hira 
Lal^)  that  the  correspondiug  Indian  section  (§  2;i4)  applies 
only  to  cases  where,  at  the  death  of  the  judgment-debtor, 
the  property  was  not  under  attachment.  It  was  considered 
that  property  under  attachment  must  be  considered  as  in  the 
custody  of  the  law,  and  that  execution  could  issue  against 
such  property  notwithstanding  the  death  of  the  judgment- 
debtor  after  attachment.  But  this  decision  is  no  authority 
or  the  proposition  that  a  valid  seizure  can  be  effected  after 
the  death  of  the  judgment-debtor  and  at  a  time  when  no 
defendant  is  on  the  record,  when  the  notice  of  seizure  requir- 
ed by  §  237  amounts  to  a  notice  of  prohibition  addressed  to 
one  who  was  no  longer  living. 

I  think  it  is  clear  that  where  the  property  has  not  been 
seized  before  the  death  of  the  judgment-debtor  the  legal 
representatives  of  the  judgment-debtor  are  not  bound  by  the 
sale.  It  is  no  answer  that  the  sale  in  this  case  was  confirm- 
ed by  the  Court,  inasmuch  as  the  property  in  question  was 
never  brought  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  by  means 
of  a  lawful  seizure,  and  the  order  confirming  the  sale  was 
made  under  the  mistaken  belief  that  the  Court  had  juris- 
diction, which  it  in  fact  had  not,  to  confirm  the  sale.  In  my 
opinion  the  learned  District  Judge  has  come  to  a  correct 
conclusion,  and  I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Wood  Renton,  J.— I  entirely  agree. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant. — Geo.  E.  de  Livera. 

Proctor  for  respondent, — B.  O.  Dias. 


Omer 

V. 

Fernando. 

Wood 
Renton,  J- 


1.    I.L.  R.  1:2  All.  443. 


i;,2  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

WICKRAMAllVrNB    v.    Dt^JGIllI    BABA, 

No.  1,230,  D.  C,  Tangalle. 

Pri's>?-it :   Wood  Renton  &  Pereira,  JJ. 

13th  February,  1913. 

Married  iivmaii—liring  apart  from  her  hushand  under  deed  of  separa- 
tion—dUposition  of  hninocahle  propeHij—is  hushand's  written  consent 
necessary?— Mntrinwniiil  Bights  and  Inheritance    Ordinance  15  of  1878, 

§  9- 

Under  the  Matrimonial  Rights  and  Inheritance  Ordinance  No.  15  of 
1876  a  wife,  though  fhe  may  be  living  apart  from  her  husband  by  con- 
sent under  a  deed  of  separation,  cannot  dispose  of  her  immovable  pro- 
perty except  -with  the  written  consent  of  her  husband.  Such  consent 
must  be  given  with  special  reference  to  the  property  sought  to  be  dis- 
posed of. 

The  facts  of  the  case  are  set  out  in  the  judgments. 

Bawa,  K.  C,  A.  S.-G.  with  H.A.  Jcii/aioardene  for  the 
plaintiff-appellant. 

Wadsworih  with  Dricherg  for  the  defendants-respond- 
ents. 

r.  a.  V. 

Wood  Renton,  J. — The  plaintiff-appellant  sues  the 
defendants-respondents  in  this  case  for  a  declaration  of  title 
to,  and  for  the  ejectment  of  the  respondents  from,  the  field 
described  in  the  plaint,  and  also  for  damages,  which  have 
been  fixed  by  agreement  ;it  Rs.  100,  for  ouster.  The  plaintiff 
claims  on  a  deed  of  conveyance  No.  159,  dated  20th  March, 
and  registered  25th  March,  1912,  from  the  owner — a  woman 
Hin  Hamy.  The  respondents  also  claim  from  Hin  Hamy  on 
a  deed  jOf  transfer  No.  7,513,  dated  21st  December,  1910,  and 
registered  on  6th  January,  1911.  Hin  Hamy  is  a  married 
woman,  and  was  so  at  the  date  of  the  execution  of  her  deed 
in  favour  of  the  respondents.  The  only  serious  question  in 
the  case  is  whether  that  deed  was  invalid  as  having  been 
executed  by  her  without  her  husband's  consent.    That  it  was 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  1^3 

executed  -without  her  husband's  express  consent  is  admitted.    Wickrama- 

Hin  Hamy  was  living  at  the  time  apart  from  her  husband  by       '^''*°* 

consent  under  a  deed  of  separation  dated  iJrd  October,  1890.  Dinjriri  Baba. 

'That  deed  contains  a  provision  that  neither  of  the  two  spouses    .  Wood- 

nor  their  heirs  shall  be  able  by  any  law  whatever  to  acquire   Renton,  J. 

a   right  to  any  movable  or  immovable  property  belonging  to 

the  other.     The  learned  District  Judge  has   held  that   this 

deed  is  in   effect  a  renunciation  by  Hin  Hamy's  husband  of 

any   right   to  control  the  alienation  of  her  property  by  her, 

and  that   it  satisfies  the  requirements   of    §  9    of   Ordinance 

No.    15   of   1876.  ■  The   sale,  therefore,  by  Hin  Hamy  to  the 

respondents  was  valid,  and  by  virtue  of  its  prior  registration 

defeats  the  conveyance  in  favour  of  the  appellant.     Although 

the    District   Judge  holds  that  the  appellant's  purchase  from 

Hin  Hamy  was  a  speculative  one,  he  does  not  hold  that  it  was 

fraudulent.     The   only  question  to  be  considered,  therefore, 

is  whether  Hin  Hamy's  transfer  in  favour  of  the   respondent 

is  invalid. 

I  am  unable  to  agree  with  the  decision  of  the  learned 
District  Judge  on  this  point.  The  deed  of  separation  between 
Hin  Hamy  and  her  husband  does  not  refer  to  the  alienation 
of  property  at  all.  Hin  Hamy  in  her  sale  to  the  respondents 
does  not  purport  to  be  acting  in  pursuance  of  any  consent 
contained  in  the  deed  of  separation.  Moreover,  in  my  opi- 
nion the  marital  consent  required  by  §  9  of  Ordinance  No.  15 
of  1876  is  a  consent  with  special  reference  to  the  particular 
disposition,  the  validity  of  which  is  in  question.  This  clear- 
ly results  both  from  the  letter  and  from  the  spirit  of  §  9  of 
Ordinance  No.  15  of  1876.  There  is  nothing  contrary  to  it 
in  the  part  of  any  judgment  referred  to  by  the  learned 
District  Judge  in  Ponnummal  i:  PattaijeK  I  may  quote  in 
this  connection  the  following  passage  :— 

"I  think  that,  in  order  to  satisfy  the  provisions  of 
"§  9  of  Ordinance  No.  15  of  1876,  there  must  be  an  ex- 
"press  consent  in  writing  by  the  husband  prior  to,  or, 
"at  any    rate,   contemporaneous  with,   the  execution  of 

1.     {1910)13  N.L.R.  291. 


134  COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

Wiokrama-  "tlie  particular  instrumeHt  involved,  and  having  relation 

y_  "to  that  instrument." 

Bingiri  Baba. 

The  separation  of  husband  and  wife  by  mutual  consent 
Pereira,  J.  ^^^^  ^^^  release  the  wife  from  the  necessity  of  obtaining  her 
husband's  consent  or  a  judicial  dispensation  therefrom.     (See 
Silva  Hamine  v.  Agon  is  Apjmhcuny^ .) 

The  conduct  of  Hin  Hamy  was  clearly  fraudulent ;  and, 
as  I  have  recently  marked  in  another  case,  it  is  greatly  to  be 
regretted  that  there  is  no  provision  in  the  existing  Penal  Code 
which  makes  fraudulent  duplicate  transfers  of  property  a 
criminal  offence. 

I  would  set  aside  the  decree  of  the  District  Court  and 
direct  that  judgment  ^should  be  entered  in  favour  of  the 
plaintiff-appellant  declaring  him  entitled  to  the  premises  in 
question,  and  directing  the  ejectment  of  the  respondents 
therefrom.  The  respondents  must  pay  to  the  appellant  the 
agreed  damages  and  the  costs  of  the  action  and  of  the  appeal. 


Pereira,  J.-^Nanayakara  Appuhamy  and  Hin  Hamy 
were  husband  and  wife  married  on  the  6th  October,  1888, 
that  is  to  say,  after  the  coming  into  operation  of  "The  Matri- 
monial Rights  and  Inheritance  Ordinance  1876".  Hin  Hamy, 
of  her  own  right,  was  the  owner  of  the  field  in  claim.  She, 
by  her  deed  dated  the  21st  December,  1910,  purported  to  sell 
and  convey  the  field  to  tlie  defendants.  Her  husband  was 
no  party  to  the  deed.  By  her  deed  dated  the  20th  March, 
1912,  Hin  Hamy  sold  and  conveyed  the  same  field  to  the 
plaintiff.  Her  husband,  Nanayakara  Appuhamy,  was  a  party 
to  this  deed ;  that  is  to  say,  he  thereby  declared  that  he 
"fully  agreed  and  gave  consent"  to  the  sale  and  conveyance 
by  Hin  Hamy  of  the  field  in  claim,  and  duly  signed  the 
deed.  The  question  is  whether  the  defendants  acquired  any 
right  or  title  to  the  field  in  claim  by  virtue  of  the  deed  in 
their  favour  of  the  21st  December,  1910.    §  9  of  "The  Matri- 

1.    {1900)4  N.L.R.  101, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  135 

monial   Rights  and   Inheritance  Ordinance  1876"  provides   Wickrama- 
that  a  married  woman  shall  have  full  power  of  disposing   of  y. 

her  own  immovable  property  "by  any  act  m^er  wfos  with  ^'"^i" Baba. 
the  written  consent  of  her  husband,  but  not  other v^ise".  Pereira,  J. 
These  words  clearly  mean  that  a  married  woman  cannot  dis- 
pose of  her  own  immovable  property  by  any  means  what- 
soever except  with  the  written  consent  of  her  husband  ;  and 
I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying  that  this  provision  implies  that 
a  disposition  of  immovable  property  by  a  married  woman 
is  ineffectual  unless  the  consent  of  her  husband  is  given  to 
the  disposition  of  the  particular  property  dealt  with  at  or 
before  such  disposition  by  means  of  a  duly  executed  notarial 
instrument.  This  clearly  is  the  combined  effect  of  §  9  of 
Ordinance  No.  15  of  1876  and  §  2  of  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840. 

It  has  been  said  that  in  the  present  case  the  husband  and 
wife  had  brought  about  a  mutual  separation  a  mensa  et  thoro 
by  means  of  a  notarial  deed  dated  the  3rd  October,  1890,  and 
that  by  this  deed  power  was  given  to  the  wife  to  dispose  of  her 
immovable  property.  1  can  see  no  such  power  given  in  the 
deed  referred  to  ;  and  even  if  there  were  any  such  power  given, 
a  general  power  of  that  kind,  as  may  be  inferred  from  what 
I  have  said  already,  is  insufficient  to  entitle  the  wife  to  dis- 
pose of  any  particular  property.  Counsel  for  the  respondent 
further  argued  that  since  the  separation  by  means  of  the 
deed  of  1890  it  was  open  to  the  wife  to  as  feme  sole  in  dis- 
posing of  her  own  property  ;  but  it  is  clear  that  even  a  judicial 
separation  is  not  a  dissolution  of  the  marriage  tie,  and  so 
long  as  the  relation  of  husband  and  wife  exists  between  two 
persons  there  is  no  reason  for  supposing  that  the  provision 
of  §  9  of  Ordinance  1876  does  not  apply  to  them,  especially 
in  the  face  of  the  fact  that  where  the  consent  of  the  husband 
is  unreasonably  withheld  there  is  a  remedy  provided  for  by 
§  12  of  tho  Ordinance.  It  was  then  said  that  under  the 
Roman-Dutch  Law  a  separation  so  far  affected  the  marital 
power  of  the  husband  over  the  wife  that  the  wife  was  at 
liberty  to  dispose  of  the  property  of  the  community  without 
the  intervention  of  the  husband.  This  contention  appears  to 
have   been   expressly  overruled  in  the  case  of  de  Silva  v. 


vm;  court  ok  appeal  cases. 

Wickrama-    Shaik  AlP .     Any  way  in  the  present  case  we  have   no"  con- 
y  cern    with  the  incidents  of  marital  power  or  community  of 

Diugiri  Baba.  property  under  the  Roman- Dutch  Law.  We  have  to  deal 
Pereira,  J.  With  the  plain  terms  of  an  act  of  the  Legislature  which  en- 
acts that  a  married  woman  may  dispose  of  her  own  immov- 
able property  with  the  written  consent  of  her  husband,  "/mf 
not  otherwise";  and  in  view  of  the  words  used,  it  is  clear 
that,  where  the  relation  of  husband  and  wife  exists  between 
two  persons,  the  whole  aim  and  object  of  the  provision  would 
be  plainly  defeated  if  it  be  not  construed  so  as  to  imply  that 
the  wife's  immovable  property  could  not  be  alienated  by  her 
except  in  the  manner  indicated  by  it. 

1  would  set  asiile  the  judgment  appealed  from  and  enter 
judgment  for  the  plaintiff  as  prayed  for  with  damages — 
lis.  100 — as  agreed  upon  between  the  parties  and  costs. 

,  Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellant.-^i.  O.  Poulier. 

Proctors  for  respondents. — E.  G.  Aincard  & 

D.  Wijesuriya. 


I.     1  N.L.R,  SS8. 


COURT    OF    AiPPEAL     CisES.  137 

DRALLE    V.    EBRAMJEE. 

1 1 

No.  34,175,  D.  C,  Colombo. 
Present :   Lascelles,  C.  J.   &   Wood  Renton,  J. 

,      13th  December,  1912. 

Pasaiiig  off — aot'iou  tu  restrain — get-uj)  of  soaj) — coloiii'  ami  gene.i'til 
fippea raitce — whether  silU-v^rapplng  di^tiiwtlm — rride/iee  of  user. 

Tlie  plaintiffs,  in  an  action  for  passing-  off,  sold  their  sOap  in  cardboard 
boxes  of  practically  the  same  size,  shape,  and  construction  as  the  defend- 
ants. The  piaintiiiis'  box  bore  on  the  lid,  both  outside  and  inside,  a  colour- 
ed label  with  the  device  of  a  lion  leEiping-  out  of  a  bamboo  jung-le  and 
the  words  "Lion  Soap,  George  DruUe,  Hamburg'".'  The  defendants'  box 
bore  on  the  lid,  both  outside  and  inside,  a  coloured  label  consisting  of  a 
representation  of  galloping  race-horses  with  their  jockeys  together  with 
the  words  "finest  Jockey  Club  Soap,  Gottlieb  Taussig,  Soap  Makers  to 
the  Imp.  et  Roy.  Court,  Vienna"-  The  sides  of  the  box  were  completely 
covered  with  labels  representing  race-horses.  The  defendants'  cakes  of 
soap  were  about  the  same  size  as  the  plaintiffs'.  They  were  enclosed  in 
;red  silk  or  satin  wrappers  of  nearly  the  same  shade,  they  were  tied  with 
the  same  gold-coloured  cord,  and  they  bore  gold-coloured  seals  which 
bore  a  general  resemblance  to  the  seals  set  as  the  jDlaintiffs'  soap  though 
the  impression  on  the  seals  was  different.  Both  soaps  were  heavily  scented. 
The  defendants'  cake  of  soap  bore  a  conspicuous  label  similar  to  that  on 
the  box,  and  the  plaintiffs'  cake  Of  soap  bore  this  label  equally  conspi- 
cuously on  each  cake  of  the  plaintiffs,  and-  defendants'  soap  there  was 
the  device  of  the  lion  and  of  the  horses  and  jockeys  pasted  over  the  red 
satin  cover. 

Held,  that  the  plaintiffs  were  not  entitled  to  an  injunction. 

Held  further,  (1)  that  the  silk-wrapping  was  not  distinctive  of  the 
get-up  of  the  plaintiffs'  soap. 

(2)  that  as  this  was  soap   manufactured   out  of  the 
Island,  evidence  of  user  outside  Ceylon  was  admissible. 

Per  Lascelles,  C.  J. — In  my  opinion  the  plaintiffs'  action  fails.  I 
arrive  at  this  concluson  on  the  broad  ground  that  there  is  no  proof  that 
anyone  was  deceived  into  buying  the  defendants'  soap  for  that  of  the 
plaintiffs,  and  that  the  defendants'  soap  is  not  calculated  to  deceive  the 
public  inasmuch  as  the  difference  between  the  two  soaps  is  conspicuous 
and  apparent  to  purchasers.  No  one,  educated  or  uneducated,  who  took 
into  his  hand  a  cake  of  the  "Jockey.  Club  Soap"  could  believe  that  that 
Soap  was  the  "Lion  Soap",  if  he  had  ever  seen  the  "Lion  Soap", 


138  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Dralle  Per  Wmid  Benfon,  ./.—Proof  of  instances   of   actual  deception  is,   of 

■f-  course,  not  necessary  in  cases  of  this  kind  any  more  than  proof  of  fraud  ; 

Bbramjee.  ^^^^  ^^'^^^^  ^j^^  alleged  passing  off  consists  In  the  adoption  by  one  trader 
of  an  ordinary  device,  proof  that  it  has  actually  been  found  to  be  decep- 
tive is  of  considerable  value. 

The  facts  appear  in  the  judgments. 

F.  M.  (/'■  Saram  (with  him  de  Sampnyo,  K.  C,  <t  Drinberg) 
for  the  defendants-appellants.— The  judgment  in  this  case  is 
clearly    wrong      The   plaintiffs  plead   that   their    soap    was 
known  as  silk-wrapped  soap  ;  but  the  evidence  does  not  sup- 
port this  plea.     The  evidence  shows  that  the  soap  was  known 
as  "Lion  Soap".      I'here  was  no  plea  nor  was  there   any   evi- 
dence that  the  combination  of  the  red  silk  wrapper  with  the 
gilt  cord  and  medal  was  distinctive  of  their  soap  or  that  the 
use  of  this  get-up  by  the  defendants  was  deceptive.     It  was 
incumbent  on  the  plaintiffs  to  prove  that   those   elements   of 
the  get-up  on  which  they  rely  are  distinctive.    (See  rirqwrial 
Tobacco  Go.  u.  Pur neW^;  J.B.  Williamx  v.  Bromley-;   Junefi 
V.  Anglo- Amer Iran  Co.'-'-;  Goleman  v.Stcplien  Sru  ith* .)  It  has 
been  held  that  absence   of   fraudulent  intent  will  help  the 
defendant ;  and  the  evidence  of  .Mr.  Zeisler  in  this  ease  showed 
that  it  was  not  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.  who  copied  the  mark, 
and  proof  of  15  years  user  outside  Ceylon  of  the  get-up  of  the 
soap  sold  by  the  defendants  was  very  material,  and  should 
have   been   considered  by  the  learned  Judge.     Plaintiffs  are 
seeking  here  to  secure  a  monopoly  of  all  silk  wrappings  for 
soap.     It   is   submitted  that  no  one  can  monopolise  a  manner 
of  dressing  up  goods,  especially  if  it  has  a  legitimate  value  for 
the  trade ;  and  a  trader  who  is  merely  the  first  to  introduce  a 
new  class   of   get-up   does  not  thereby  secure  it  for  himself. 
This   was   decided   in   "The   Enamelled   Coffee    Tin  Cases" 
{Payto?}  V.  Snelling'').    The  evidence  adduced  by  the  defend- 
ant proves  that  there  are  other  varieties  of  soap  sold  in  silk 
or  satin  wrappings. 


1.  21  R.  P.  0.  598. 

2.  26  R.  P.  G.481. 

-5.     17  R.  P. 


S.     29  R.  P.  C.  361. 
4.     29  R,  P.  G.  81. 

C.  48,628. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


i;-59 


F.  M.  de  Saram  in  reply. 


Dralle 

V. 

iee. 


Lascelles, 
C.J. 


Bawa,  K.  C,  A.  S.-Q.  (with  Hayleij)  for  plaiutiffs-res 
pondents. — The  plaintiffs'  business  according  to  the  evidence  Ebramj^ 
was  an  extending  and  expanding  one,  while  the  volume  of 
business  of  the  soap  manufactured  by  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co. 
sold  by  the  defendant  was  very  limited  ;  and  it  was  not  till 
after  the  plaintiffs'  soap  had  acquired  a  reputation  in  the 
Ceylon  market  that  the  soap  sold  by  the  defendants  became 
known  to  the  trade.  Evidence  of  user  outside  Ceylon  is  in- 
admissible, because  the  Ceylon  market  only  should  be  con- 
sidered, and  the  evidence  here  establishes  the  fact  that  the 
plaintiffs'  soap  was  the  first  to  be  put  on  the  market.  The 
plaintiffs  therefore  having  put  their  soap  first  on  the  Ceylon 
market  they  are  entitled  to  prevent  others  from  adopting  the 
same  get-up  as  theirs.  Counsel  referred  to  Juhnsuii  n.  Orr- 
Erwing'  ;  Re  MuncKs  AppUcatian'^ 


C.    (I.    V. 


Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  is  an  appeal  from  a  decree  of 
the  District  Court  of  Colombo  restraining  the  defendants 
from  passing  off  soap  not  of  the  plaintiffs'  manufacture  as  the 
plaintiffs'  soap  called  "Lion  Soap". 

The  plaintiffs,  who  are  a  firm  of  Hamburg  soap  manu- 
facturers, introduced  a  soap  known  as  "The  Lion  Soap"  into 
the  Ceylon  market  in  1906.  The  soap  1>ecame  populai-,  and 
from  1910  onwards  considerable  quantities  were  imported 
by  one  Adakappa  Clietty,  who  had  obtained  the  exclusive 
right  of  importing  this  article.  In  April,  1907,  a  representa- 
tive i)f  the  firm  of  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.,  Soap  Manufacturers 
of  Vienn  I,  introduced  a  soap  called  "Finest  Jockey  Club 
Soap".  The  importation  of  this  soap,  whinh  was  at  first 
quite  small,  increased,  until  in  19  2  two  hundred  and  fifty 
dozen  cakes  were  imported. 

The  question  on  which  the  decision  of  this  case  turns  is 
whether   the   get  np  of  the  "Jockey  Club  Soap"  is  such  as  to 

1.     (1888)  App.  Cas.  219.      2,     SO  L.  T.  E.  12, 


140 

Dralle 

V. 

Ebramjee. 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

induce  the  purchasing  public  to  believe  that  Taussig  &,Co.'s 
"Jockey  Club  Soap"  is  the  plaintiff8"'Lion  Soap".   _    ;     ;,  ■ 

Both  descriptions  of  soap  are  ofEered  for  sale  to  the 
public  in  car,lboard  boxes  of  practically  the  same  size,  shape, 
and  constiuction.  But  as  regards  colour  an*  general  appear- 
ance there  is  no  similarity  between  the  two  boxes.  The- 
plaintiffs'  box  bears  on  the  lid,  both  outside  and  inside,  a 
coloured  label  with  the  device  of  a  lion  leaping  out  ol  a 
bamboo  jungle  and  the  words  -'Lion  Soap,  George  Dralle, 
Hamburg".  With  this  exception  the  box  is  of  a  marbled 
brown  colour. 

The  defendants'  box  bears  on  the  lid,  both  inside  and 
outside,  a  coloured,  label  consisting  of  a  representation  of 
galloping  race-horses  with  their  jockeys  together  with  the 
words  "Finest  Jockey  Club  Soap,  Gottlieb  Taussig,  Soap 
Makers  to  the  Imp.  et  Roy.  Court,  Vienna".  The  sides  of  the 
box  are  completely  covered  with  labels  representing  racing 
scenes. 

Thus  the  general  appearance  of  the  boxes  is  widely 
different,  and  no  one  to  whom  Providence  had  not  entirely 
denied  the  faculty  of  observation  could  mistake  the  defend- 
ants' box  for  that  of  the  plaintiffs.  But  the  similarity  on 
which  the  plaintiffs  especially  rely  is  with  regard  to  the  get- 
up  of  the  cakes  or  tablets  of  soap.  Each  box  contains  two 
cakes  of  soap. 

The  defendants'  ^cakes  of  soap,  as  compared  with  those 
of  the  plaintiffs',  are  about  the  same  size,  they  are  enclosed 
in  red  silk  or  satin  wrappers  of  nearly  the  same  shade,  they 
are  tied  with  the  same  gold-coloured  cord,  and  they  bear 
gold-coloured  seals  which  bear  a  general  resemblance  to  the 
seals  set  on  the  plaintiffs'  soap  though  the  impression  on  the. 
seals  is  different.     Both  soaps  are  heavily  scented. 

On  the  other  hand  the  defendantis'  cakes  of  soap  bear  a 
conspicuous  label  similar  to  that  on  the  box,  and  the  plain- 
tiffs' cakes  of  soap  bear  their  label  equally  conspicuously. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

But  for  the  distinctive  labels  the  resemblance  between 
the  two  cakes  of  soap  would  huve  been  very  close ;  they 
would  have  been  undistinguishable  except  by  the  impres- 
sions on  the  seals. 

The  case  thus  presents  itself  as  one  in  which  the  goods 
sold  by  the  defendants,  though  very  similar  as  regards  their 
general  get-up  to  those  manufactured  and  sold  by  the  plain- 
tiffs, are  clearly  distinguished  from  them  by  a  conspicuous 
label.  What  are  the  legal  principles  by  which  cases  of  this 
description  are  determinable  > 

There  is  ample  authority  on  the  point ;  but  I  will  refer 
to  the  case  of  Pajjfini  d  Co.,  Ltd.  v.  SneUing  Lampard  d; 
Go,  Ltd.,^  the  facts  of  which  are  closely  analogous  to  those 
now  under  consideration. 

The  defendants  in  that  case  sold  their  coffee  in  tins 
resembling  in  general  appearance  and  colour  those  of  the 
plaintiffs,  but  they  were  distinguished  principally  by  the 
brand  "Flag"  on  the  back  of  the  tins  and  the  trade  mark 
"Flag"  in  tricolour  on  the  front  of  the  tins. 

The  plaintiffs  succeeded  in  a  passing  off  action  in  the 
Court  of  first  instance,  but  failed  both  in  the  Appeal  Court 
and  in  the  House  of  Lords. 

In  the  Appeal  Court,  Lord  Justice  Eomer  made  some 
observations  which  seem  to  nie  to  be  very  much  in  point  in 
the  present  case.  "The  evidence  to  my  mind,"  His  Lord- 
ship said,  "shows  really  simpiy  this.  I  think  that  the  defend- 
"ants,  when  they  were  thinking  of  their  new  tins,  had  before 
"them  one  of  the  plaintiff's'  tins,  the  blue  amongst  other  tins  ; 
"and  I  have  no  doubt  that  they  probably  did  look  at  the  plain- 
"tiffs'  blue  tin  with  the  other  tins  in  order  to  see  what  class 
"of  tin  they  might  put  upon  the  market,  but  that  they  would 
"be  perfectly  entitled  to  do.  If  a  trader  is  going  to  put  a 
"special  tin  on  the  market,  he  is  entitled  to  look  at  his  neigh- 
"bour's  goods  for  the   purpose  of  seeing   what   is  the  most 


141 

Dralle 

V. 

Ebramjee. 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


1.     17  R.  p.  V,  48,028. 


142  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Dralie       "attractive  form,  what  is  the  best  form  likely  to  attract  cnstom- 

V.  "ers,  so  long  as  he  takes  care  to  distinguish  his  goods  from 

"the  prior  goods."  This  it  was  held,  the  defendants  hiid  effec- 

*C  tl.^*'  ''^''l^y  done  by  distinguishing  their  tins  with  the  "Flag".  In 
the  House  of  Lords  Lord  MacNaghten  emphasised  the  fact 
that  the  plaintiffs'  tins  were  distinctly  labelled  "Royal  Coffee" 
and  the  defendants'  tins  were  distinctly  labelled  "Flag 
Coffee",  and  his  judgment  was  based  principally,  if  not  en- 
tirely on  this  distinction. 

In  one  respect  the  plaintiffs'  case  here  is  less  strong  than 
that  of  the  plaintiffs  in  the  case  to  which  I  have  referred. 

It  is  clear  that  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.  did  not  deliberate- 
ly copy  the  get-up  of  the  plaintiffs'  soap  for  the  purpose  of 
capturing  the  Ceylon  market  ;  for  Mr.  Zeisler,  the  travelling 
agent  of  the  firm,  proved  that  he  had  sold  large  quantities 
of  Jockey  Club  Soap  in  exactly  the  same  get-up  since  1902, 
and  his  evidence  was  fully  confirmed  by  the  production  of  a 
certified  copy  of  the  registration  of  the  soap  in  question  in 
1902  and  the  catalogue  of  the  firm  dated  1904,  in  which  the 
soap,  in  its  present  get-up,  is  clearly  depicted. 

The  evidence  of  foreign  user  was  objected  to;  but  I 
think  that  this  evidence  is  clearly  admissible  in  answer  to 
the  allegation  of  fraudulent  invitation  in  paragraphs  6  and 
7  of  the  plaint. 

Neither  do  I  see  how  this  evidence  could  be  regarded  as 
irrelevant  on  the  question  of  what  part  of  the  get-up  of  the 
goods  is  common  to  the  trade  if  that  point  had  been  put  in 
issue  inasmuch  as  the  trade  in  Ceylon  in  this  description  of 
soap  is  a  frade  in  goods  manufactured  outside  the  Island. 

It  is  true  that  in  considering  the  distinctive  effect  of  the 
labels,  regard  must  be  had  to  the  market  in  which  soap  is 
sold. 

But  it  is  incredible  that  there  is  any  class  of  purchasers 
in  Ceylon  to  whose  eyes  a  coloured  badge  of  a  lion  would 
not  appear  a  distinctive  mark.    This  coloured  representation 


COURT  OF  APPEA.L  CASES.  U3 

of  a  wild  beast  is  the  kind   of   mark    which   I   should  have       Dralle 

thought  would,  have  particularly  arrested  the  attention  of  the    Ebramjee. 

uneducated  claeses  amongst  whom   this   soap   is  said   to   be    , 

Lascelles, 
largely  sold.  C.  J. 

There  is  no  direct  evidence  that  any  purchaser  has  been 
deceived  into  buying  the  defendants'  soap  for  that  of  the 
plaintiffs',  and  I  do  not  see  how  any  purchaser  could  go  into 
the  box  and  depose  that  he  had  mistaken  the  defendants' 
soap  for  that  of  the  plaintiffs'.  He  would  at  once  be  con- 
fronted with  the  conspicuous  difference  between  the  labels. 

The  plaintiffs  endeavoui-ed  to  prove  that  their  soap  had 
acquired  a  special  reputation  in  the  market  as  "silk-wrapped" 
soap  ;  but  the  evidence  adduced  for  this  purpose, besides  be- 
ing contradictory,  strikes  me  as  artificial  and  unconvincing. 

Vytalingam,  for  example,  the  plaintiffs'  attorney,  stated 
that  he  never  heard  the  "Lion  Soap"  called  "Silk  Soap", 
that  uneducated  people  would  call  the  soap  "Lion  Soap". 
Abdul  Careem,  a  retail  dealer,  also  called  for  the  plaintiffs, 
said  that  his  uneducated  customeis  would  call  the  soap 
"Lion  Soap"  "on  account  of  the  picture".  He  went  on  to 
say  :  "I  think  that  if  1  gave  a  man  who  does  not  talk  English 
"a  cake  of  'Jockey  Club  Soap'  when  he  asked  for  'Lion 
"Soap,'  he  would  refuse  it." 

The  soap  may  have  been  sometimes  described  as  "silk 
wrapped",  but  I  am  not  satisfied  that  it  acquired  any  local 
reputation  under  that  designation  ;  and  in  view  of  the  evi- 
dence of  the  use  of  silk  wrappers  on  other  soaps,  I  certainly 
am  not  prepared  to  hold  that  the  silk  wrappers  is  distinctive 
of  the  plaintiffs'  soap. 

In  my  opinion  the  plaintiffs'  action  fails.  I  arrive  at 
this  conclusion  on  the  broad  ground  that  there  is  no  proof 
that  anyone  was  deceived  into  buying  the  defendants'  soap 
for  that  of  the  plaintiffs',  and  that  the  defendant's  soap  is  not 
calculated  to  deceive  the  public  inasmuch  as  the  difference 
between  the  two  soaps  is  conspicuous  and  apparent  to  pur- 
chasers.    No  one,  educated  or  uneducated,  who  took  into  his 


144  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Dralle       hand  a  cake  of  the  "Jockey  Ciub  Soap"  could   belieye   that 
Ebrainjee    *^^*  ^"^P  '^^^  *^®  "Lion  Soap"  if  he  had  even  seen  the  "Lion 

Soap". 
Wood 

Renton,  J.  j  ^q^}^  ggt  aside  the  judgment  and   dismiss   the  plain- 

tiffs' action  with  costs  here  and  in  the  Court  below. 

Wood  Renton,  J. — The  plaintiffs-respondents,  a  firm 
carrying  on  business  in  partnership  under  the  namp  of 
George  Dralle  in  Hamburg,  by  their  attorney  A.  Vaita- 
lingam  of  Colombo,  sued  the  defendants-appellants,  the  agent 
in  Colombo  of  Messrs  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.,  of  Vienna,  in 
this  action  for  an  injunction  restraining  him  from  infringing 
the  respondents'  trade  mark  in  respect  of  soap  and  from 
passing  off  soap  manufactured  by  Messrs.  Gottlieb  Taussig 
&  Co.  as  and  for  soap  of  the  respondents.  The  respondents 
also  claimed  an  accounting  and  the  delivery  up  of  all  boxes 
of  the  infringing  soap  in  the  appellants'  possession.  The 
case  stands  now  in  narrower  ground  than  it  did  upon  the 
pleadings.  The  respondents'  registered  trade  mark  ponsista 
only  of  a  label  with  the  device  upon  it  of  a  lion  rampant. 
The  trade  mark  of  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.  ,  consists  of  a 
representation  of  a  number  of  jockeys  on  horseback.  It  was 
obvious  that  the  latter  trade  mark  could  not  be  an  infringer 
ment  of  the  former,  and  that  head  of  the  respondents'  claim 
-Was  properly  withdrawn  when  the  issues  were  framed.  The 
claim  to  an  accounting  was  also  waived  in  the  course  of  the 
proceedings.  The  only  questions  with  which  we  are  now 
concerned  are,  therefore,  the  claim  for  passing  off' ;  and  if 
that  should  be  established,  the  consequential  claim  for  the 
delivery  up  of  the  infringing  articles. 

The  respondents'  soap  is  sold  in  small  boxes  of  the  same 
size,  each  containing  two  cakes.  Each  cake  is  wrapped  in 
red  satin,  is  bound  with  gold  thread,  and  has  a  gold  paper 
seal  on  the  back  and  a  coloured  paper  label  with  the  regis- 
tered device  of  the  lioti  rampant  in  front.  The  same  device 
appears  on  the  outside  and  within  the  lid  of  each  box.  The 
two  cakes  of  soap  are  covered  by  paper  advertisements.  The 
soap   is   highly  scented.     The  respondents'  attorney,  Vaita- 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  145 

lingam,  stated   in  his   evidence  that  what  he  claimed  chiefly       Dralle 
was  the  red  satin  wrapping.     "I  have  no  objection,"  he  said,    Bij^amiee 
"to  soap  wrapped  in  silk  of  a  different  colour.     I   also   claim  t. 

"the  gold  thread  and  seal  in  combination  with  the  red  satin  Wood 
"wrapping."  In  the  plaint,  however,  reference  is  made  to  the  Renton,  J. 
boxes  containing  the  cakes  ol:  soap,  and  the  respondents' 
counsel  relied  on  the  entire  get-up  as  being  distinctive  of 
their  goods.  There  is  a  considerable  superficial  resemblance 
between  the  respondents'  boxes  and  those  in  which  the  soap 
of  Messrs.  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.  are  packed  ;  but  apart  alto- 
gether from  the  fact  that  the  respondents'  attornej'  practi- 
cally limited  his  claim  in  his  evidence  to  the  wrappings  of  the 
soap  itself,  I  do  not  think  that  any  purchaser  could  have 
been  so  unwary  as  to  mistake  Messrs.  Gottlieb  Taussig  & 
Co.'s  boxes  for  those  of  the  respondents.  It  was  suggested  in 
argument  that  such  a  mistake  might  be  made,  if  not  by  the 
ratail  trader,  at  any  rate  by  villagers,  who  are  ignorant  of  the 
English  language.  Villagers  in  this  country,  whether  they 
are  Singhalese  or  Tamil,  do  not  make  their  purchases  hurried- 
ly. For  the  most  part  they  see  that  they  get  what  they  want ; 
and  no  villager,  however  ignorant  he  may  be  of  the  English 
language,  can  be  deceived  into  mistaking  a  horse  for  a  lion. 
The  important  question,  however,  is,  whether  the  get-up  of 
Messrs.  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.'s  cakes  of  soap  so  nearly  re- 
sembles that  of  the  respondents'  soap  as  to  be  calculated  to 
mislead  unwary  purchasers  into  taking  one  for  the  other. 
The  learnea  District  Judge  has  answered  this  question  in  the 
affirmative,  and  has  given  the  respondents  the  injunction  that 
they  claim.  Numerous  cases  were  cited  to  us  in  the  course 
of  the  argument;  but  the  question  is  mainly  one  of  fact. 
Mr.  Zeisler,  the  travelling  agent  of  Messrs.  Gottlieb  Taussig 
&  Co.,  stated  that  when  he  joined  the  firm  in  1901  the  soap 
with  which  we  are  here  concerned  and  which  is  called 
Jockey  Club  Soap  was  already  got-up  in  exactly  the  same 
way  as  it  is  now.  The  respondents'  counsel  objected  to  this 
evidence,  and  the  learned  District  Judge  reserved  his  order 
upon  it.  In  my  opinion  the  evidence  was  admissible  in  view 
of  the  fact  that  the  respondents'  plaint  contains  an  allegation 


146 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Dralle 

V. 

Ebramjec. 

Wood 
Renton,   J 


of  fraud.  We  start,  therefore,  with  evidence  that  ihe  get-up 
of  (rottlieb  Taussig  &  Uo.'b  soap  was  one  adopted  by  them 
bona  fide  long  prior  to  the  proceedings  in  the  present  case. 
If  it  had  not  been  for  the  fact  that  each  cake  of  the  respond- 
ents' soap  bears  their  registered  device,  while  each  cake  of 
Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.'s  soap  is  wrapped  in  thin  cover  label, 
I  should  have  been  disposed  to  regard  the  latter  as  likely  to 
be  mistaken  for  the  foi'iner  ;  and  as  the  respondents  were 
admittedly  first  in  the  local  market,  they  would  have  been 
entitled  to  the  redress  which  the  District  Judge  has  given 
them.  The  soap  of  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.,  like  that  of  the 
respondents',  is  wrapped  iu  red  satin,  is  bound  by  gold  thread, 
and  has  a  gold  seal  at  the  back  of  each  cake,  although  the 
real  is  darker  in  colour  than  that  used  by  the  respondents. 
The  soap  of  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.  has  also  a  scent  strongly 
resembling  the  scent  of  the  respondents'  soap.  Here,  how- 
ever, as  in  the  case  of  the  boxes,  the  entirely  distinctive 
characters  of  the  labels  affixed  to  the  two  kinds  of  soap  make 
it  impossible  for  me  to  hold  that  the  one  could  have  been 
mistaken  for  the  other.  (See  Payton  v.  Sneiling  Lampard 
cf'  Co.  Ltd.^-  No  mstances  of  actual  deception  have  been 
proved,  except  one  spoken  to  by  a  witness  Thawfeek,  who 
gave  the  following  evidence  : — 

"A  man  came  to  me  once  and  asked  for  Lion  Soap— 
"he  would  not  pay  my  price— he  went  away  and  came 
"back  and  showed  me  a  piece  of  Jockey  Club  Soap  and 
"said  he  had  bought  it  for  less.  1  then  said  it  was  not 
"Lion  Soap.  The  man  went  back  with  the  soap.  That 
"took  place  three  months  ago.  I  did  not  tell  Vaita- 
"lingam  this." 

Proof  of  instances  of  actual  deception  is,  of  course,  not 
necessary  in  cases  of  this  kind  any  more  than  proof  of  fraud  ; 
but  where  the  alleged  passing  off  consists  in  the  adoption  by 
one  trader  of  an  ordinary  devise,  proof  that  it  has  actually 
been  found  to  be  deceptive  is  of  considerable  value.  Thaw- 
feek's  evidence  is  discounted  to  a  large  extent  by  the  fact 
that  the  man  of  whom  he  speaks  was  not  himself  called  as  a 
1.     (1900)  17  R.  P.  C.  48,  628. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     OASES.  147 

witness.     The  respondents' case  was  that,  although  their  soap      Dralle 

V. 

IS  known  as  the  Lion  Brand,  it  was  spoken  of  by  illiterate   Ebramjee. 
vilhigers  as  silk- wrapped  soap,  and  that  consequently  Gottlieb 
Taussig   &   Co.'s   soap  was  easily  mistaken  for  it.     Evidence   Renton,  J, 
to  that   eflEect   was   given   by   the  witness  Sittampalam.     In 
cross-examination,  however,  he  said  : — 

"  Dralle  had  a  large  number  of  samples,  all  got-up 
"in  a  different  way.  Some  wrapped  in  tissue  paper, 
"some  in  glazed  paper,  some  in  thick  paper.  The  Lion 
"Soap  was  the  only  soap  wrapped  in  silk.  The  traders 
"spoke  of  the  Lion  Soap  as  silk-wrapped  soap  to  distin- 
"guish  it  from  the  other  samples." 

It  would  appear  from  this  evidence  that  the  Lion  Soap 
was  called  silk-wrapped  soap  to  distinguish  it  from  other 
samples  belonging  to  the  respondents.  Vaitalingam,  the 
respondents'  attorney,  also  stated  that  the  Lion  Soap  had  at- 
tained a  general  reputation  in  the  market  as  silk- wrapped 
soap  under  the  Tamil  equivalent  for  these  words — "patn 
sankiri''.  But  he  admitted  that  he  knew  nothing  of  the  retail 
trade  ;  and  one  portion  of  his  t  vidence  seems  to  me  to  be  of 
importance.     Speaking  of  Adakappa  Chetty  he  said  : — 

"He  obtained  an  exclusive  agoncy  for  the  sale  of 
"the  soap  in  1911.  Adakappa  Chetty  told  me  that  if 
"the  Jockey  Club  Soap  came  into  the  market  it  would 
"prejudice    the   sale   of    the  Lion   Soap.     He   told   me 

"that  in  1911 1  sold  the  soap  at  12  shillings  a  dozen 

"boxes.  1  know  the  retnil  price  of  it  is  Rs.  14-50  per 
"dozen  boxes.  Jockey  Club  Soap  is  sold  at  Rs.  11-50 
"a  dozen  boxes." 

I  am  inclined  to  think  that  these  passages  throw  a  con- 
siderable light  both  on  the  origin  of  these  proceedings  and 
on  the  reason  why  the  Jockey  Club  Soap  has  interfered  with 
the  respondents'  sales.  Vaitalingam  also  said  that  uneducat- 
ed people  would  have  known  the  soap  as  the  Lion  Soap. 
Abdul  Careem,  another  witness  for  the  respondents,  while 
he  said  that  sometimes  people  used  to  come  and  ask  for  Lion 


148 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Drallc 

V. 

Ebramjee. 

Wood 
Renton,  J. 


Soap,  gave  other  evidence  of  a  character  strongly  adverse  to 
the  respondents'  claim.    I  may  cite  the  following  passages  :— 

"I  am  a  retail  vendor.  The  majority  of  my  custom- 
"ers  are  unable  to  read  English.  Those  who  could  not 
"read  English  called  the  Lion  Soap,  whether  they  could 
"speak  English  or  not.." 

"Hawkers,  Parawas,  Sinhalese,  Moormen  used  to 
"ask  for  the  soap  as  Lion  Soap.  My  uneducated 
"customers  called  the  soap  Lion  Soap.  I  think  that  if 
"I  gave  a  man  who  does  not  talk  English  a  cake  of 
"Jockey  Club  Soap  when  he  asked  for  Lion  Soap  he 
"would  refuse  it." 

Meera  Lebbe  said  that  if  a  customer  asked  for  silk- 
wrapped  soap  he  gave  him  Lion  Soap  before  Jockey  Club 
Soap  came  out,  and  added  :  "Now  I  give  customers  one  or  the 
other."  Sangarayer,  clerk  and  manager  of  Adakappa  Chetty, 
said  that  ordinary  customers  who  do  not  understood  English 
call  the  Lion  Brand  of  soap  hilk-wrapped  soap.  He  added, 
however,  that  even  if  a  man  could  not  read  he  would  be  able 
to  distinguish  the  Lion. 

I  do  not  think  that  this  evidence  is  sufficient  to  show 
that  the  respondents'  soap  was  generally  known  in  the  market 
as  silk-wrapped  soap.  Admittedly,  wholesale  traders  spoke  of 
it  as  Lion  Soap,  and  the  respondents'  own  witnesses  show  that 
a  considerable  proportion  of  the  retail  dealers  distinguished 
it  by  the  figure  of  the  Lion,  and  not  by  its  satin  wrapping. 

In  view  of  these  circumstances  and  of  the  marked 
differences  between  the  labels  affixed  to  the  soap  of  the  res- 
pondents and  tliat  of  Messrs.  Gottlieb  Taussig  &  Co.  I  think 
that  the  respondents  are  not  entitled  to  succeed  in  this  action. 
I  would  set  aside  the  decree  of  the  District  Court  and  dismiss 
their  action  with  all  costs  of  the  action  and  of  the  appeal. 

Appeal  allowed. 

Proctors  for  appellant. — df  Vos  &  Oratiaen. 


Proctor  for  respondent. — P-  G.  OooJce, 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  149 

GOONEWAEDE>fE    v.    GOONEWARDENE. 
No.  7,:^;M,  C.  R.,  Galle. 
Present :  Wood  Renton.  J. 

20th  February,  1913. 

Co-owner — right  of  co-owner  t"  build — conseyit  of  other  co-owners — 
where  consent  withheld — remedy — partition  action — exceptions. 

One  co-owner  cannot  build  on  a  laud  lield  in  common  without  the 
consent  ot  the  other  co-owners,  unless  the  land  was  acquired,  or  at  least 
held,  by  the  co-owners  as  a  building  site. 

Where  such  consent  is  withheld  the  remedy  of  a  co-owner  is  to  insti- 
tute a  partition  action. 

The  law  does  not  prohibit  one  co-owner  from  the  use  and  enjoyment 
of  the  property  in  such  manner  as  is  natural  and  necessary  under  the 
circumstances. 

Silni  '■.  iSilva^  and  Siyadoris  r.  Uendricli-  referred  to. 

.4.  St.  V.  Jai/i'waj'dene  for  the  defendants-appellantB. — 
The  judgment  of  the  Commissioner  is  wrong.  There  is  strong 
proof  that  the  land  in  question  has  been  used  hy  several  of 
co-owners  for  the  purpose  of  building  on  it,  and  there  are 
at  present  six  houses  on  it.  Hence  it  must  be  taken  that  by 
tacit  consent  of  all  the  owners  the  land  has  been  converted 
into  a  building  block.  The  defendants  were  entitled  to  build 
without  the  permission  of  the  other  owners.  {Si!/adij?vs  i'. 
Hendrick^  ;   Silra  v.  Silva'-.) 

dc Zoysa,ioY  the  plaintiflE-respondent,  wasnot  called  upon. 

Wood  Renton,  J.— In  spite  of  Mr.  A.  St.  V.  Jayewar- 
dene's  clear  and  strenuous  argument  in  support  of  the  appeal, 
the  decision  of  the  Commissioner  of  Requests  appears  to  be 
correct.  There  is  no  doubt  luit  that  by  the  common  law  of 
this  Colony  one  co-owner  cannot  build  a  house  on  a  land 
held  in  common  without  the  consent  of  the  other  co-owners. 
Where  such  consent  is  withheld  a  co-owner  is  not  without  a 
remedy.     He  can  institute  an  action  for  partition.    There  is, 

1.     6N.L.B.225.        2.     6  N,L.R,215, 


no 


GOURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


dene 

T. 

G-oonewar- 
deue. 

Wood 
Renton,  J. 


Goonewar-  however,  a  claaa  of  exceptions  to  the  general  principle  which 
I  have  just  stated.  It  is  defined  by  Sir  Charles  Layard,  in 
Silva  V.  SUva',  and  by  Sir  John  Bonser,  in  Siyadoris  v. 
Hendrich"-.  These  decisions  stand  by  their  own  authority, 
but  they  have  constantly  been  followed  in  later  cases.  The 
class  of  exceptions  referred  to  may  be  defined  in  this  way. 
The  law  does  not  prohibit  one  co-owner  from  the  use  and 
enjoyment  of  the  property  in  such  manner  as  is  natural  and 
necessary  under  the  circumstances.  For  example,  as  in 
Siyadoris  l>.  Hendrick-  the  land  had  been  purchased  for  the 
express  purpose  of  digging  plumbago  contained  in  it,  it  would 
have  been  unreasonable  that  any  co-owners  should  have 
been  prohibited  from  digging  for  plumbago  without  the 
consent  of  the  other  co-owners.  Sir  Charles  Layard  gives 
another  illustration  in  Silva  v.  Silva'^ .  If  the  land  were  fit 
for  paddy,  it  could  scarcely  be  contended  that  any  one  co- 
owner  would  be  entitled  to  prevent  the  other  co-owners  from 
cultivating  it  in  that  way.  Mr.  A.  St.  Y.  Jayew.irdene  suggested 
that  this  was  land  acquired,  or  at  least  held,  by  the  co-owners 
as  a  building  site.  If  the  evidence  established  that  sugges- 
tion, the  case  would  clearly  come  within  the  class  of  excep- 
tions which  I  have  just  stated.  But  the  evidence  shews  only 
that  certain  houses  had  been  built  on  the  land  by  consent. 
There  is  no  instance  in  which  any  house  had  been  erected 
without  the  consent  of  the  other  co-owners.  -A  former  co- 
owner  had  commenced  to  build  a  house,  but  the  others  inter- 
posed, and  the  building  never  got  beyond  its  foundations.  I 
am  unable  to  hold  on  the  evidence  that  any  special  character 
attached  to  this  land  of  such  a  kind  as  to  relieve  the  appellant 
from  the  ordinary  fetter  imposed  upon  the  rights  of  co- 
owners  by  the  the  common  law. 

The  appeal  is  dismissed  with  costs. 

Appral  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  appellant— fl^enri/  Gooneratne. 
Proctor  for  respondent — C.  W.  W.  Kannangara. 


1.     6  N.  L.  H,  SI 5.         2.     6  N.  L.  R.  225. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  151i 

DON   ADRIAN    u.   NICHOLAS    APPUHAMY. 
No.  11,212,  D.  U.,  Galle. 
Present:   Pereira  &  Ennis,   JJ. 

2l8t  February,  1913. 

Action  fur  malificiiis  prosecntion — Police  Mcifjistrate  refusing  summon^ 
harinff  gone  through  preliminaries — accused  not  before  Court — no  prosecu- 
tion— action  does  not  lie— action  for  injury  caused  by  jjroceedings  before 
prosecution — nature  of  evidence  necessary. 

An  action  for  malicious  prosecution  does  not  lie  where  the  Police 
Magistrate,  having  gone  through  the  preliminaries  required  by  the  Code, 
refuses  summons  on  the  accused. 

In  order  that  the  proceedings  may  constitute  a  prosecution  the 
accused  should  be  before  the  Court. 

In  an  action  for  damages  for  injury  caused  by  proceedings  before 
prosecution  the  amount  of  evidence  required  to  prove  that  the  plaintiff 
was  innocent  would  be  much  greater  than  in  a  case  of  malicious  prosecu- 
tion, in  which  case  the  order  of  the  Criminal  Court  discharging  him 
coupled  with  a  denial  on  oath  that  he  committed  the  offence  would 
create  a  strong  presumption  in  his  favour. 

E.  W.  Jayewardene,  for  the  plaintiflE-appellant,  contend- 
ed tliat  judgment  ought  to  have  been  entered  for  the  plaintiff. 
He  has  been  acquitted  by  the  Magistrate,  and  that  is  strong 
evidence  of  his  innocence.  Further,  the  plaintiff  has  himself 
given  evidence  stating  the  charge  to  be  false.  There  is  strong 
proof  of  malice.  When  a  criminal  charge  has  failed  it  is 
incumbent  on  the  defendant  in  an  action  for  malicious  prose- 
cution to  justify  the  prosecution.  {De  Villiers,De  Injuriis 
(Voet)  p.  145  ;   Corea  v.  Peiris\) 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene  for  the  defendant-respondent. — 
The  acquittal  of  the  plaintitf  could  only  be  used  to  prove  that 
the  criminal  proceedings  terminated  in  his  favour.  His 
acquittal  is  no  proof  of  his  innocence.  That  must  be  establish- 
ed in  these  proceedings.  [_Etin'is,  J.  Does  not  the  acquittal 
prove   that  the   accused   was  innocent  ?}     No,  the  acquittal 

1.     9  N.  L.  R.  279. 


152 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Adrian 

V. 

Nicholas. 
Pereira,  J. 


may  have  been  due  to  various  causes  and  not  to  the  falsity  of 
the  charge.  [Pereira,  J.  In  such  a  case  would  not  very  little 
evidence  be  sufficient  to  prove  that  the  charge  was  false  ? 
Here  there  is  the  plaintiff's  oath.J  No,  the  plaintiff  must  prove 
his  innocence  conclusively  in  this  ciise.  He  cannot  say  that 
his  acquittal  has  established  his  innocence.  That  is  the  law 
in  Ceylon.  Lascelles,  0.  J.,  in  Corea  v.  Pdris  (ubi  supra) 
said  that  the  law  laid  down  in  de  ViUirrs,De  Injur! is  p.  145, 
was  not  applicable  to  Ceylon  (See  also  Sado  et  al.  v.  Nona 
Baha  et  al.^  ;  Moss  v.  Wilson-).  But  in  this  case  the  plaintiff 
was  never  acquitted.  No  process  was  ever  issued  against 
him,  and  he  never  appeared  in  Court  as  an  accused.  There 
was,  in  short,  no  prosecution  of  the  plaintiff  by  the  defend- 
ant. This  principle  was  upheld  in  Kopal  Khan  Jan  v. 
Bholanath  Khettry^.  There  being  no  acquittal  the  plaintiff's 
action  must  fail. 

E.  W.  Jayetvardcne  in  reply. — The  Indian  case  relied 
on  does  not  apply.  Here  the  defendant  charged  the  plain- 
tiff to  the  Police,  who  reported  the  matter  to  the  Court.  The 
defendant  then  finding  that  he  was  unable  to  substantiate 
his  false  charge  saw  that  his  witnesses  would  not  support  his 
case;  whereupon  the  Police  Magistrate  refused  to  issue  pro- 
cess. That  was  a  sufficient  prosecution  to  entitle  plaintiff  to 
maintain  the  action.  Even  if  there  had  been  no  prosecution 
the  plaintiff  had  been  falsely  charged,  and  he  is  entitled  to 
claim  damages.  [Pereira,  J.  In  that  case  the  plaintiff  has  no 
order  of  acquittal  to  rely  on,  and  he  must  establish  his  inno- 
cence conclusively  in  the  proceedings].  Even  if  that  be  the 
case  the  plaintiff  has  done  so. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira,  J. — The  first  issue  in  this  case  is,  "Did  the 
"plaintiff  cause  hurt  to  the  Ist  defendant  with  a  knife?"  If 
this  is  to  be  considered  to  be  an  action  for  damages  for  mali- 
cious prosecution  the  burden  on  this  issue  would  rest  com- 
paratively  lightly   on  the  plaintiff.     That  is  to  say,  a  strong 


11  N.  L.  R.  163.         2.     8  N.  L.  R.  368. 
3.     I.  L.  R.  30  Cal.  880. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


153 


presumptioii  would  arise  iti  his  favour  on  his  producing  the 
order  of  the  Criminal  Court  discharging  him,  and  on  his 
making  oath  himself  that  he  did  not  cause  hurt.  The  plain- 
tiff gave  evidence  on  oath,  and  also  produced  the  ordfer  in 
his  favour  made  in  the  criminal  case.  The  defendant  there- 
upon gave  evidence  himself,  and,  on  a  consideration  of  all  the 
evidence  led,  the  District  Judge  was  of  opinion  that  its  weight 
was  on  the  side  of  the  defendant.  In  other  words  he  held 
that  the  plaintiff  had  failed  to  prove  that  he  had  not  caused 
hurt  to  the  defendant.  I  have  read  the  evidence,  and  I  am 
not  prepared  to  say  that  the  District  Judge  arrived  at  a 
wrong  conclusion.  It  has  been  contended  by  counsel  for  the 
respondent  that  the  proceeding  in  the  Police  Court  instituted 
by  the  defendant  cannot  be  regarded  as  a  prosecution  ;  and 
in  view  of  the  authority  that  he  has  cited,  namely,  Kupaf 
Khan  Jan  ;».  Bholanath  ^Aei^/?/',  I  am  inclined  to  think 
that  there  was  really  no  prosecution  of  the  plaintiff.  From 
that  case  it  is  clear  that  where  a  Police  Magistrate  refuses 
summons,  having  gone  through  the  preliminaries  required 
by  the  Code,  the  proceeding  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  a  prose- 
cution. In  fact  to  constitute  a  prosecution  the  accused 
should  be  before  the  Court.  Under  our  Criminal  Procedure 
Code  it  is  open  to  a  magistrate  to  refuse  summons  in  a  case 
after  examination  of  the  plaintiff  and  such  other  witnesses 
as  he  may  produce.  That  appears  to  be  what  happened  iti 
the  present  case,  and,  therefore,  the  proceeding  in  the  Police 
Court  can  hardly  be  termed  a  prosecution.  In  that  view  the 
evidence  led  by  the  plaintiff  to  prove  his  innocence,  even 
taking  no  account  of  the  evidence  for  the  defence,  could 
hardly  be  said  to  be  sufficient  to  discharge  the  burden  on 
him. 


Adrian 

V. 

Nicholas. 
Ennis,  J. 


I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Ennis,  J. — I  am  entirely  of  the  same  opinion.  This  is 
not  an  action  for  malicious  prosecution,  but  an  action  for 
damages  for  injury  caused  by  proceedings  before  prosecution. 


1.    I.  L.  E.  30  Cal.  880. 


154  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

In  these  circumstances  I  consider  ^that  the  amount  of 
evidence  required  to  prove  that  the  plaintiff  was  innocent 
would  be  greater  than  in  a  case  of  malicious  prosecution,  in 
which  case  the  acquittal  or  discharge  which  was  the  result 
of  that  prosecution  conld  be  relied  on.  In  this  case  plaintiff 
has  not  produced  evidence  which  would  justify  a  Court  in 
holding  that  he  was  innocent. 

I  would,  therefore,  make  the  same  order. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant — D.  W.  Suhasinghe. 

Proctor  for  respondent — H.  Guneratne. 

— :  o  : 

PERERA    V.    SENEVIRATNE. 

No.  8,873,  D.  C,  Negombo. 

Present:  Pereira  &  Ennis,  JJ. 

25th  February,  1913. 

Sale  of  Goods  Ordinance  Xu.  11  of  1S9G  §  34~reasoniMe  time,  whnf  is. 

Reasonable  time  within  the  meaning  of  §  3i  of  Ordinance  11  of  1896 
for  inspection  and  approval  of  tea  shocks  would  be  a  day,  or  at  most  two 
days. 

Where  there  was  a  delay  of  7  days  in  expressing  disapproval, 

Held,  that  a  reasonable  time  had  lapsed,  and  that  the  contract  must 
be  taken  to  have  been  completed . 

The  facts  appear  sufficiently  from  the  judgment  of 
Pereira,  J. 

.4.  St.  V.  Jni/eivardciie  (with  Sansoni)  for  the  plaintiff- 
appellant.— The  plaintiff  delivered  the  goods  to  the  defend- 
ant;  and  the  latter  having  failed  to  intimate  that  he  refused 
to  accept  the  goods  within  a  day  or  two  at  the  most,  must  be 
deemed  to  have  accepted  them  (See  §  34  of  Ordinance  11  of 
1896). 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  \55 

F.  M.  cle  Sarain  for  the  defendant-respoudent. — Under     Perern 
§  34  a  reasonable  time  is  a  question  of  fact  depending  on  the  senevli-atne. 
circumstances  of  each  particular  case.     A  day  or  two  would 
hardly   be   sufficient  to   inspect  the  goods.     Considering  the 
course  of  business  between  the  parties,  it  is  submitted  that  a 
reasonable  time  had  not  elapsed. 

Pereira,  J. — In  this  case  I  think  the  District  Judge  is 
right  in  holding  that  the  defendant  received  500  tea  shocks 
subject  to  inspection  and  approval,  and  that  "he  reserved  to 
himself  the  right  to  accept  any  of  or  all  the  goods".  This 
holding  of  the  District  .Judge  is  abundantly  supported  by  the 
evidence,  especially  the  document  tendered  by  the  defendant 
himself,  namely,  document  Di,  in  which  it  is  stated  that  500 
tea  shocks  were  received  from  W.  G.  Perera  subject  to  inspec- 
tion and  approval.  That  document  fixes  the  date  en  which 
that  happened  as  the  7th  March,  1'J12.  The  receipt  of  shocks 
by  defendant  in  that  way  can  only  mean  that  from  that  day, 
7th  March,  1912,  the  defendant  received  the  shocks  subject 
to  inspection  and  approval.  §  34  of  the  Sale  of  Goods  Act 
applies.  According  to  it  a  buyer  is  deemed  to  have  accepted 
the  goods  when  after  the  lapse  of  a  reasonable  time  he  re- 
tains the  goods  without  intimating  to  the  seller  that  he  re- 
jected them,  i'he  question  is,  what  would  be  reasonable  time 
for  inspection  and  approval  of  these  particular  goods  ? 
There  is  nothing  in  the  material  before  us  to  show  that  this 
could  not  be  done  in  a  day,  or  at  most  two  days.  The  defend- 
ant in  his  evidence  says  that  he  inspected  the  goods,  and  he 
found  them  to  be  of  worse  quality  than  the  previous  consign- 
ments. No  date  is  expressly  mentioned,  but  it  is  pretty 
clear  that  he  means  that  he  made  the  inspection  on  the  7th 
March.  He  says  :  "On  the  7th  March  I  took  the  shocks  into 
"my  store,  as  plaintifE  had  no  store  of  his  own";  and  then 
follows  the  statement  in  respect  of  the  inspection  of  the  goods. 
Anyway  no  reason  has  been  shown  why  he  should  have 
delayed  more  than  a  day  or  two  in  intimating  his  approval 
cr  disapproval  to  the  plaintifE.  But,  as  found  by  the  District 
Judge,  he  did  not  write  to  the  plaintiff  that  he  disapproved 
the  goods  until  the  28th  March,  that  is,   some   20  •  days   after 


flnnisiJ- 


l§fi  COURT    OF    APPEAL    OASES. 

Peiej?,  tb,e  S9,le.  The  District  Judge  is  inclined  to  tljink  that  he 
SesL^yii^tpe.  y^i'bally  intimated  his  disapproval  to  the  plaintiff  some 
diay  between  the  lith  and  27th  March.  Assuming  that  he 
did  so  on  the  14th,  there  was  a  ilelay  of  7  days,  and  in 
view  of  §  34  of  the  Sale  of  Goods  Act  the  question  is,  whether 
more  than  a  reasonable  time  had  not  elapsed  without  the 
defendant  intimating  to  the  plaintiff  that  he  rejected  the 
goods.  I  think  it  is  quite  clear  that  a  reasonable  time  had 
lapsed  by  that  date.  That  being  so  the  contract  of  sale  must 
be  taken  to  have  been  completed.  The  District  Judge  says 
that  business  relations  between  the  parties  were  "so  slack  and 
''informal  that  it  would  be  unreasonable  to  require  either 
"party  to  conform  to  the  strict  usage  of  commercial  dealings 
"that  subsists  between  really  businesslike  parties";  but  it 
may  be  remembered  that  slack  business  relations  must  give 
way  to  the  express  provisions  of  the  Ordinance.  It  is  mani- 
fest that  no  such  rejection  of  the  process  was  made  in  this 
case  within  a  reasonable  time  ;  and  in  the  circumstances  I 
think  that  the  plaintiff  is  entitled  to  succeed. 

I  would  set  aside  the  order  appealed  from  and  enter  up 
judgment  for  the  plaintiff  as  prayed  for  with  costs. 

Ennis,  J. — I  am  of  the  same  opinion. 

Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellant —Z).  L.  E.  Amcrnsinghe. 

Proctor  for  respondent — D.  J.  S  Goon/nvardene. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL     CASES.  157 

SOYSA    V.    RANESINGHE. 
No.  21,514,  D.  C,  Kandy. 
Present  .■   Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  Wood  Renton,  J. 

13th  March,  1913. 

Arbitration. — partnership — aiireemeiit  to  refer  matters  in  dispute  to 
arbitration — discretion  of  Court  -  charfies  of  fraud — §  S  of  Ordinance 
Xo.  15    of  1866. 

Under  §  8  of  Ordinance  No.  15  of  1866  the  Court  has  a  diecretion 
with  repfard  to  compelling'  the  pirties  to  an  agreement  to  resort  to  arbi- 
tration ;  and  the  Co  art  is  not  obliged  to  take  this  step  if  it  is  satisfied 
tha.t  there  is  sufficient  reason  why  such  matters  cannot  be  referred  to 
arb'tratiou  under  the  agreement. 

Where  fraud  is  charged,  and  objection  to  arbitration  is  by  the  party 
charging  the  fraud,  the  Court  will  not  necessarily  accede  to  it,  but  the 
Court  will  in  g'neral  refuse  to  send  the  dispute  to  arbitration  if  the 
party  charged  with  fraud  desires  a  public  inquiry  in  regard  to  the  alle- 
gations made  against  him. 

Wood  Renton,  J".— The  claims  in  the  respondent's  plaint  for  the 
appointment  of  a  receiver  and  for  the  grant  of  an  injunction  deal  with 
matters  beyond  the  competence  of  arbitrators,  and  can  only  be  satisfac- 
torily disposed  of  by  the  ordinary  tribunals. 

Bartholomeusz,  for  appellant. — Where  fraud  is  charged 
it  is  true  that  a  Court  will  refuse  to  send  the  matter  in  dis- 
pute to  arbitration  if  the  party  charged  with  fraud  desires  a 
public  inquiry.  But  when  the  objection  to  arbitration  is  by 
the  party  charging  the  fraud  the  Court  will  not  necessarily 
accede  to  it,  and  will  never  do  so  unless  &  prima  facie  case 
of  fraud  is  proved.  Here  the  plaintiff  alleges  fraud,  and  he 
cannot  object  to  arbitration.  The  Court  will  be  inclined  to 
refer  matters  in  dispute  to  arbitration  in  terms  of  the  agree- 
ment, uniess  the  plaintifE  shows  very  clear  reasons  for  not 
doing  so.  It  is  not  enough  to  say  that  fraud  is  alleged  :  a 
prima  facie  case  should  be  made  out.  In  Russel  v.  Rv^sel^ 
there  were  distinct  charges  of  fraud  supported  by  affidavit. 
The  Court  held  that  no  prima  facie  case  of  fraud  was  proved. 

1.     {1880)  14  CD.  471. 


158  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Soysa        (Vide  Biefield  v.  Browne^  ;  Wahnshy  v.  White";  and  Russel 
EanJsinghe,  "^^  arbitration,  pp.  49,  50.) 

Lascelles,  de  Scunpayo,  K.   C,  for   the    respondent.— Defendant 

^-  •'•  charges  plaintiflE  with  fraud,  and  the  plaintiff  wants  those 
charges  to  be  inquired  into  in  open  Court.  Russel  v.  BusseP 
is  in  our  favour.  The  arbitrator  cannot  grant  the  relief 
sought  for.  He  cannot  appoint  a  receiver  or  issue  an  injunc- 
tion. 

Barthulomeusz  in  reply. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — This  is  an  appeal  from  an  order  of 
the  District  Judge  on  an  application  under  §  8  of  Ordinance 
No.  15  of  1866  to  stay  the  proceedings  under  the  action, 
and  to  compel  a  reference  to  arbitration  clause  in  the 
partnership  agreement.  Under  the  section  in  question  the 
Court  has  a  discretion  with  regard  to  compelling  the  parties  to 
resort  to  arbitration,  and  the  Court  is  not  obliged  to  take  this 
step  if  it  is  satisfied  that  there  is  sufficient  reason  why  such 
matters  cannot  be  referred  to  arbitration  under  the  agreement. 
On  reading  the  plaint  and  the  affidavits  it  is  clear  that  there 
are  several  reasons  why  the  matter  should  not  be  referred 
to  arbitration.  The  most  important  objection  is  to  be  found 
in  the  charges  and  counter-charges  of  fraud  made  by  the  two 
parties.  Not  only  has  the  plaintiff  brought  serious  charges 
of  fraud  against  the  defendant,  but  the  defendant  himself  in 
his  answer  has  charged  the  plaintiff  with  having  submitted 
fictitious  and  false  accounts.  The  plaintiff  in  his  affidavit 
has  claimed  the  right  of  having  a  public  inquiry  into  these 
charges.  It  may  be  that,  in  respect  of  the  charges  of  fraud 
brought  by  the  plaintiff  himself,  he  had  no  right  to  object  to 
these  being  referred  to  the  arbitrators  inasmuch  as  he  him- 
self had  made  them.  But  with  regard  to  the  charges  against 
the  plaintiff',  it  is  well  settled  that  he  is  entitled  to  claim  the 
benefit  of  a  public  inquiry  according  to  law.  This,  I  think, 
is  in  itself  a  sufficient  reason  to   support  the  order  of  the 

1.     {18U4)  1  uh.  621.       2.     61  L.  T.  R.  (N.  S.)  483. 
3.     (1880)  14  0.  D.  471. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  159 

learned   District  Judge.     But  there  are  several  other  matters       Soysa 
alleged  in  the  plaint  with  regard  to  which  it  seems  to   me   at  Ranesinghe. 
least  doubtful  whether  they  come  within  the   purview  of  the 
arbitration    clause.     I  think   thut   the    order   made   by   the   Renton,  J. 
District  Judge  is  sound  in  law,  and  I  also  think  that  it  is  the 
best  that   can  be  made  in  the  interests  of  the  parties  ;    for  I 
do  not  believe  that  the  serious   charges   and   counter-charges 
which   had   been   made  in  these  proceedings  could  be  satis- 
factorily anil  finally  determined  by  arbitration.     I  think  the 
appeal  should  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

Wood  Renton,  J. — 1  am  of  the  same  opinion.  The 
appellant's  counter-charges  of  fraud  against  the  respondent 
at  once  exclude  the  hitter  part  of  the  rule  affirmed  by  Sir 
George  Jesse!  in  the  case  of  Riissdl  r.  Russell^,  that,  where 
the  objection  to  arbitration  is  by  a  party  charging  the  fraud, 
the  Court  will  not  necessarily  accede  to  omit,  and  bring  the 
case  within  the  former  branch  of  that  rule,  viz.,  that,  where 
fraud  is  charged,  the  Court  will  in  general  refuse  to  send  the 
dispute  to  arbitration  if  the  party  charged  with  fraud  desires 
— as  the  respondent  here  does  desire — a  public  inquiry  in 
regard  to  the  alletrations  made  against  him.  It  may  be  that 
the  arbitration  clause  with  which  we  have  to  deal  is  enough 
to  cover  a  possible  dissolution  of  the  partnership.  But  the 
claims  in  the  respondent's  plaint  for  the  appointment  of  a 
receiver  and  for  the  grant  of  an  injunction  deal  with  matters 
beyond  the  competence  of  arbitrators,  and  can  only  be  satis- 
factorily disposed  of  by  the  ordijiary  tribunals. 

Appeal  disniissed. 

Proctor  for  Appellant — G.   VandcrtiriJl. 

Proctor  for  Respondent — G.  E.  cIp  Silva. 


1.     (1880)  14  G.  D.  411. 


160  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

MUDIANSB   V.  APPUHAMT. 

No.  3,236,  D.  C,  Kegalle. 
Present :  Pereira  &  Ennis,  J  J. 

26th  February,  1913. 

Kaiidyan  Lmr— offspring  «/  «  Kandyan  father  hij  u  Low-country 
Sinhalese  woman— is  he  subject  to  A'andi/nn  Law  ?— personal  law— race— 
nationality . 

The  offspring  of  a  Kandyan  father  by  a  Low-country  Sinhalese 
woman  cannot  be  said  to  be  Kandyan,  and  is  not  subject  to  Kandyan 
Law. 

Per  Pereim,  ■/.— I  am  aware  of  no  rule  of  law  that  makes  the  off- 
spring of  i»  mixed  union  belong  to  the  race  of  either  the  father  or  the 
mother. 

The  Kandyan  Law  is  not  what  may  be  termed  a  local  law  governing 
all  persona  living  within  a  certain  area.  It  is  rather  a  personal  law 
attaching  to  the  individuals  wherever  they  may  be  belonging  to  a  parti- 
cular class  or  section  of  the  Mnhalese  subjects  of  the  Crown.  That 
being  so  the  mere  fact  that  a  person  is  born  or  is  resident  within  the 
Kandyan  provinces  is  insufficient  to  bring  him  within  the  pale  of  the 
Kandyan  Law. 

§  2  of  the  Ordinance  No.  16  of  1876  has  not  the  effect  of  rendering 
a  Low-country  Sinhalese  woman  who  marries   a,  Kandyan  liable  to   be 
egarded  as  a  Kandyan. 

Bawa,  K.  C,  for  the  plaintiff-appellant. 

Sam.payo,  K.  C,  for  the  defendant-respondent. 

Pereira,  J. — The  main  question  in  this  case  is,  whether 
the  deceased,  John  Singho,  an  offspring  (born  within  the 
Kandyan  Provinces)  of  a  Kandyan  father  by  a  Low-country 
Sinhalese  woman,  can  be  said  to  have  been  a  Kandyan,  sub- 
ject to  the  incidents  of  what  is  known  as  the  Kandyan  Law. 
As  observed  by  Clarence,  J.,  in  the  case  of  Wijeslnghe  v. 
T^j^mngr/te^,  Kandyan  Law  is  the  customary  law  which  a 
certain   section   of    the   community    within     the    Kandyan 

i.     9  S.  C,  C,  199. 


Pereira,  J. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  GASES.  161 

Provinces,  namely,  the  Kandyan  Sinhalese,  were  allowed,  by  Mudianie 
the  British  GoTernment,  to  retain.  "It  did  not  amount  to  a  Appuhamy. 
*  distinct  lex  loci  rei  sites  governing  absolutely  the  devolution 
"of  land."  It  is,  therefore,  not  what  may  be  termed  a  "local 
laV  governing  all  persons  living  within  a  certain  area  :  it 
is  rather  a  personal  law  attaching  to  the  individuals,  wherever 
they  may  be,  belonging  to  a  certain  particular  class  or  section 
of  the  Sinhalese  subjects  of  the  Crown.  That  being  so,  the 
mere  fact  that  a  person  is  born  or  is  resident  within  the 
Kandyau  Province  is  insuflScient  to  bring  him  within  the 
pale  of  the  Kandyan  Law.  The  District  Judge  seems  to  think 
that  because  a  child  acquires  the  nationality  and  domicil  of 
the  father  John  Singho  should  be  regarded  as  a  Kandyan.  As 
regards  domicil,  it  will  be  seen  that  Bumside,  C.  J.,  in  the 
case  of  Williams  v.  E(jbertson\  was  of  opinion  that  a  person 
oould  not  acquire  a  Kandyan  domicil  as  distinguished  from 
a  Ceylon  domicil.  He  argued  :  "It  would  not  be  possible  in 
"the  present  day  to  contend  successfully  that  a  domicil  of 
"choice  could  be  obtained  in  a  community  which  does  not 
"possess  supreme  or  sovereign  power."  But,  perhaps,  the 
District  Judge  has  used  the  term  "domicil"  in  the  less  techni- 
"oal  sense  in  which  it  is  used  in  §  8  of  Ordinance  No.  5 
"of  1852,  which  speaks  of  "Europeans  and  persons  com- 
monly known  as  Burghers"  who  are  "domiciled"  within 
the  Kandyan  Provinces.  In  any  sense,  however,  domi- 
cil, as  shown  above,  is  no  test  to  be  applied  in  the 
solution  of  questions  as  to  the  applicability  of  Kandyan 
Law.  As  regards  "nationality",  the  District  Judge  is  appa- 
rently using  the  word  in  its  strictly  legal  sense.  It  is 
only  when  the  word  is  used  in  that  sense  that  it  can  be  said 
the  wife  takes  the  husband's  nationality  and  the  child  the 
father's.  Thus,  every  subject  of  the  Crown,  be  he  Singhalese, 
Tamil,  Chinese,  or  Hottentot,  is  British  in  nationality,  that  is 
to  say,  he  is  subject  to  the  British  Flag  ;  but  where  the  word 
is  used  in  a  looser  and  more  popular  sense — in  the  sense  of 
race  for  instance — the  rule  relied  on  by  the  District  Judge 
has  no  application  at  all.   I  am  aware  of  no  rule  of   law  that 

1,    8  S.  C.  C.  36. 


162  COFRT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Mudianse     niakes  the  .offspring  of  a  mixed  union  belong  to  the  race  of 

Appuhamy.  either  the   father   or   the   mother.     Like   the   Eurasians   of 

.       '■'   Cery'lon   and  India,   and  the   Mulattos  of  the  Spanish  settle- 

!  .   '.      ments,  they  must  fall  into  some  separate  and  special   group 

or  groups  tO' be  known  by  some  distinctive  designatiori  or 

designations.     For  these  reasons  the  offspring  of  a  Kandyan 

father  by  a  Low-country  Sinhalese  woman  cannot  be  said  to 

be-  Eandyan.     It  is  not  necessary  to  inquire  tow  he  may  be 

class-ified.    If  he  is  not,  Kandyan  Law  cannot,  qf    course, 

apply  to  him.    He  must  be  governed  by  the   general    law   of- 

theland. 

Section  2  of  Ordinance  No.  15  of  1876  has  been  cited  in 
the  course  of  the  argument  in  appeal.  With  reference  to  this 
section  it  has  been  held  by  this  Court  in  the  case  of  Man  ikan 
p.  Peter^  that  a  Low-country  Sinhalese  woman  is  not  a 
piSrson  of  "different  race  or  nationality"  from  a  Kandyan 
Sinhalese,  and  that,  therefore,  the  section  has  not  the  effect 
of  rendering  a  Low-Country  Sinhalese  woman  who  marries 
a  Kandyan  liable  to  be  regarded  as  a  Kandyan.  This  deci- 
sion is,  1  think,  quite  justified  by  the  plain  words  used  in  the 
section,  and  it  is,  therefore,  not  permissible  to  speculate  as  to 
what  was  intended  by  it  by  the  Legislature.  The  section 
refers  also  to  Tamils  of  the  Northern  Province  who  are  '  gov- 
erned by  the  Thesawalamai ;  and,  whatever  the  Legislature 
may  have  intended,  it  will,  I  think,  be  doing  violence  to  lan- 
guage to  say  that  these  Tamils  are  of  a  race  or  nationality 
different  from  that  of  the  other  Tamils  in  the  Island.  More- 
over, the  section  is  silent  as  to  the  offsjyring  of  a  union 
between  persons  who  are  not  of  the  same  race  or  nationality. 

For  the  reasons  given  above  I  would  set  aside  the 
judgment  appealed  from  and  remit  the  case  to  the  District 
Judge  for  final  decision  on  the  footing  that  the  devolution  of 
the  property  of  John  Singho  should  be  according  to  the 
general  law  of  the  land,  and  not  the  special  Kandyan  Law. 

The  appellants  should  have  their  costs. 

1.     (1899)  4  N.  L.  R,  243, 


COURT    OF     APPEAL    CASES.  163 

Wood  _Renton,  J- — I  have  had  some  doubts.    But,  on  the 
Adhole,  I  agree. 

Case  remitted. 

""''        Proctor  for  appellant. — J.  P.  Samarasinghe. 

Proctor  for  respondent. — A.  A.   Wickrciaesinghe. 


"   POROLIS   ('.    KOMANIS  et  al. 
No.  41,959,  P.  C,  Panadura. 
Present:  Pereira,  J. 
14th  June,  1913. 

Penal  Code — mixck'ief — co-owner  ciittiiuj  doivii  fence  in,  assertion  of 
rir/ht — no  offence — Cei/lou  Penal  Code,  Xti.  :i  of  ISSS  §  409. 

A  person  can  be  said  to  be  guilty  of  mischief  only  if  he  acts  npite- 
fully,  maliciously,  or  wantonly.  He  should  either  intend  to  cause  -wrong- 
ful loss  or  know  that  wrongful  loss  is  likely  to  be  caused  to  some  person. 

A.  co-owner  who  removes  a  fence  in  the  assertion  of  a  real  or  fancied 
right  to  an  enclosed  portion  of  what  is  claimed  as  common  property  does 
not  thereby  commit  mischief. 

The  complainant  alleged  that  he  was  in  possession  of  a 
defined  portion  of  a  land  called  Nawasigahawattte,  which  he 
had  separated  off  over  10  years  ago  by  a  live  fence,  and  that 
on  the  14th  of  March,  11113,  the  1st  accused,  with  the  aid  of 
the  2nd  and  the  3rd  accused,  cut  and  removed  the  said  fence. 
All  the  accused  denied  the  said  allegations,  and  the  1st  accua- 
;  ed.  led  evidence  to  prove  that  the  complainant  was  entitled 
merely  to  an  undivided  share  and  that  he  was  a  co-owner  of 
the  land.  The  learned  Police  Magistrate  (F.  D.  Peries,  Esq.) 
held  that  the  complainant  had  possessed  a  separate  share  and 
that  the  accused  Tvith  the  object  of  disturbing  his  long- 
standing possession  cut  and  removed  the  fence.  He  convict- 
ed the  accused  under  §  409  of  the  Penal  Code  and  sentenced 
them  to  two  weeks'  rigorous  imprisonment  each.  The 
accused   appealed. 


Pereira,  J. 


164  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Porolie  ,4.   St.    V.  Jayewardeue  for  the  appellants. — The  evi- 

Romams.  dence  shows  that  the  compkiinant  is  entitled  to  an  undivided 
share  in  the  land.  The  Ist  iiccused  is  admittedly  a  co-owner, 
and  as  such  was  entitled  to  cut  down  the  fence  and  thereby 
prevent  the  complainant  from  prescribing.  Even  if  the 
accused  cut  down  the  fence,  it  is  submitted  they  did  so  in  the 
assertion  of  a  right,  and,  therefore,  they  cannot  be  convicted 
of  mischief. 

E.  G.  P.  Jayetileke  for  the  respondent. — There  is  no 
appeal  in  this  case,  as  the  point  of  law  now  sought  to  be 
raised  has  not  been  certifieil  as  required  by  §  340  of  the 
Criminal  Pi-ocedure  Code.  [Pereira,  J.  I  shall  deal  with  the 
case  in  revision.]  The  evidence  does  not  show  that  the 
complainant  and  the  1st  accused  are  co-owners.  The  Magis- 
trate has  found  that  the  complainant  possessed  a  well- 
defined  portion,  and  that  the  accused  in  cutting  down 
the  fence  acted  mala  ^fide.  [Pereira,  J.  Your  deed  deals 
with  an  undivided  share.]  We  may  have  been  given  the 
share  we  possess  by  agreement.  But  even  if  the  com- 
plainant is  a  co-owner,  the  accused  had  no  right  to  take 
the  law  into  their  own  hands.  If  the  complainant  was 
not  entitled  to  possess  the  shiire  he  was  possessing  an 
action  for  partition  should  have  been  instituted.  The 
fence  is  a  very  old  fence,  and  the  accused  are  guilty  of  a 
wanton  act  in  having  cut  it  down.  [Pereira,  J.  They  did 
so  in  the  assertion  of  a  right.]  They  denied  having  cut 
it  at  all.  [Pei'eira,  J.  They  denied  through  fear;  but  the 
evidence  shows  that  it  was  done  in  the  assertion  of  a 
right.]  Even  then  it  is  wrongful,  because  the  accused  must 
have  known  that  the  removal  of  the' fence  would  cause  the 
complainant  loss.  The  fence  was  intended  to  protect  a  young 
cocoanut  plantation. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira,  J. — In  this  case  the  accused  have  been  convict- 
ed of  committing  mischief  in  that  they  cut  and  removed 
some  sticks  that  are  said  to  have  made  up  a  fence.  There  is 
on  the   whole  sufficient   to   show   that  the  accused  have  a 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


165 


colourable  title  to  some  share  of  the  land  of  which  the  com- 
plainant claims  to  be  entitled  to  a  defined  portion.  The 
accused  do  not  admit  that  they  removed  a  fence,  but  it  is 
manifest  from  the  evidence  of  the  complainant  himself  that 
whatever  was  done  by  the  accused  was  done  as  a  protest 
against  the  possession  by  the  complainant  of  a  defined  portion 
and  in  assertion  of  an  interest  in  that  portion. 

It  is  only  where  a  person  acts  wantonly  that  he  can  be 
said  to  be  guilty  of  mischief.  He  should  either  intend  to 
cause  wrongful  loss  or  know  that  wrongful  loss  is  likely  to 
be  caused  to  some  person.  In  other  words,  as  observed  above, 
he  should  act  spitefully,  maliciously,  or  wantonly.  This  can 
hardly  be  said  of  a  co-owner  who  removes  a  fence  in  the 
assertion  of  a  real  or  fancied  right  to  an  enclosed  portion  of 
what  is  claimed  as  common  property.  I  think  that  the  com- 
plainant should  seek  his  remedy  in  the  Civil  Court.  I  set 
aside  the  conviction  and  acquit  the  accused. 

Accused  acquitted. 

Proctor  for  appellants — F.  A.  C.  Tirimane. 

Proctor  for  respondent — P.  A,  Goonsratne. 


Porolis 

V. 

Romanis 
Pereira,  J. 


me^'  GOC^RT    OF?  APPEAL    GASES. 

JANGO  APPU    V.   SOMAWATHI   et   al. 

Weeresinghe — Inter  venient. 

■  No.  11,354,  D.  C,  Galle. 

Present .    Pereira  &  de  Sampayo,  JJ. 

28th  June,  1913. 

Partition — alienation  of  entire  hind  jiending  proceedings — valid — 
^■i/iterest" — Partition  Ordinance  No.  10  of  1S83  §  77,  scope  of. 

An  alienation  pending  an  action  for  partition  of  the  entirety  of 
the  subject  of  the'action  does  not  contravene  the  provisions' -of  §  17  of 
Ordiritaoe  No.  10  of  18&3. 

Per  Pereira,  J. — That  section  (viz.,  §  17)  provides  that  it  shall  not 
he  lawful  for  ''any  of  the  owners  to  alienate  his  share  or  interest".  The 
worda  "any  of  the  owners"  clearly  imply  that  the  case  contemplated  is  a 
case  of  property  owned  by  several  owners,  and  hence  the  word  "interest" 
can  only  mean  some  interest  short  of  absolute  ownership  of  the  entirety 
of  the  property. 

This  was  an  action  for  the  partition  of  a  land  called 
Delgahakoratuwawatte.  The  plaintiff  claimed  a  half-share 
and  allotted  the  remaining  half-share  to  the  defendant.  The 
action  was  filed  on  the  15th  day  of  July,  1 912  Before  the 
trial  the  respondent  moved  to  intervene,  claiming  the  whole 
land  on  a  deed  executed  in  his  favour  on  the  16th  July,  1912, 
by  a  person  claiming  adversely  to  both  the  plaintiff  and 
"he  defendant.  The  plaintiff  objected  to  the  intervention 
being  allowed  on  the  ground  that  the  deed  on  which 
the  intervenient  claimed  was  void  as  being  obnoxious 
to  §  17  of  the  Partition  Ordinance  No.  10  of  J  863.  The  learned 
District  Judge  held  that  inasmuch  as  the  intervenient's 
vendor  was  not  a  party  to  the  action,  and  as  summons  had  not 
been  served  on  the  defendant  at  the  date  of  the  execution  of 
the  deed  in  favour  of  the  intervenient,  the  deed  was 
not  obnoxious  to  the  provisions  of  §  17.  He  accordingly 
allowed  the  intervention,  and  againstt  his  order  the  plaintiff 
appealed. 


Pereira,  J. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  167 

(jroiineratne  for  the  appellant. — An  alienation  pending  Jango  Appu 
partition  proceedings  is  void  though  by  persons  not  parties  gemwathi 
to  the  suit.  {Soe  Annamalal  Pillai  V.  Perera^;  Dewar  Umma 
V.  Ismail  Marikar-).  The  deed  in  favour  of  the  intervenient 
was  executed  after  the  institution  of  the  partition  proceedings, 
tinder  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  the  commencement  of  an 
action  is  the  filing  of  a  plaint,  and  not  the  service  of  summons. 
The  doctrine  of  lis  pendens  does  not  apply  in  vieW  al^o  of 
the  . provisions  of  §  17  of  the  Partitioii  Or'dinatice.  He  also' 
cited jSiiya  V.  Qiniara^.  '     -:■-"■   -■'';■■-;:■.. 

■'  G-.  Koch  for  the  respondfent.^^Section  17  of ; the  Partition 
Ordinance  only  afEects  deeds  relating  to  undivided  sha»es;,^er" 
interests.  In  all  the  cases  cited  undivided  shares  were  dealt 
with.  §  17  should  be  read  with  §  2,  which  makes  the  insti- 
tution of  a  partition  suit  competent  only  where  a  land  is 
held  in  common.  The  order  of  the  District  Judge  allowing 
intervention  is  therefore  right,  although  the  reasons  for  his 
order  cannot  be  supported. 

Gooiwratnc  in  reply.  The  word  "interest"  in  §  17 
should  not  be  confined  to  au  "undivided  interest".  I  The 
language  of  §  17  is  wide  enough  to  include  a  case  like  the 
present. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira,  J. — I  will  not  enter  into  the  merits  of  the 
reasons  given  by  the  District  Judge  for  his  order  because  I 
think  that  the  order  can  be  supported  independently  of  those 
reasons.  The  alienation  in  the  present  case  was  not  an  alie- 
nation of  a  share  in  the  property  which  is  the  subject  of  the 
action,  but  of  the  entirety  of  the  property;  and  to  such  a  case 
§  17  of  the  Partition  Ordinance  does  not,  in  my  opinicm, 
apply.  That  section  provides  that  it  shall  not  be  lawful  for 
"any  of  the  owners  to  alienate  his  undivided  share  or 
interest".  The  words  "any  of  the  owners"  clearly  imply  that 
the  case  contemplated  is  a  case  of  property  owned  by  several 

1.    6N.L.B.108.        2.    SBal.99.  ' 

3.     7N.L.R.U5,        .  . 


168  COUBT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Jango  Appu  owners,  and  hence  the  word  "interest"  can  only  means  some 
Somavathie.  interest  short  of  absolute  ownership  of  the  entirety  of  the 
property.     I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 


de 
Sampayo, 


de  Sampayo,  J.— The  alienation  is  not  only  not  of  an 
undivided  share  or  interest  in  the  property  within  the  mean- 
ing of  §  17  of  the  Ordinance,  bat  by  an  entire  stranger  wlio 
claims  adversely  to  both  the  plaintiff  and  the  defendant, 
think  it  does  not  contravene  the  provisions  of  that  section 
I  agree  that  the  appeal  should  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant. — Henry  Gooneratne. 

Proctor  for  respondent. — R.  A.  H.  de  Vuh. 


:  o:  ■ 


MANAKULARATNE   v.   WICKR.^MANAYAKE. 

No.  34,245,  D.  U.,  Colombo. 

Present:   Lascelles,  C.  J.  &  Wood  Renton,  J. 

13th  March,  1913. 

Husband  and  wife — debts  incurred  by  luife  as  publicn  mercatrix — 
husband  liable — Roman-Dutoh  Law — Matrimonial  rights  and  inheritanee 
—Ordinance  jVo  15  of  1816  §  10. 

A   husband  is  liable  for  the  debts  of  hi«  wife  though  incurred  ae  a 

publica  mercati-ii-. 

Lascelles,  C.  J. — The  husband's  liability  under  the ,  Roman-Dutch 
Law  for  his  wife's  trade  debts  is  not  an  incident  of  nor  derived  from  the 
oonimunity  of  e;oods.  It  arises  from  the  marital  power  which  the  Civil 
Law  attributes  to  the  husband,  a  power  which  Voet  observes  jure,  retere 
parum  a  patria  potentate  distabat. 

H.  A.  Jayewardene  for  the  appellant. — Section  10  of 
the  Matrimonial  Rights  and  Inheritance  Ordinance  has  repeal- 
ed the  common  law  liability  of  the  husband  for  his  wife's 
trade  debts.  Under  the  community  of  goods  the  husband 
got  all  the  benefit  of  his  wife's  earnings,  hence  it  was  reason- 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES. 


169 


able  that  he  should  be  liable  for  her  debts  also.  But  the 
Ordinance  of  1876  has  abolished  community  of  goods,  and 
by  §  10  the  wife  has  absolute  control  and  power  of  disposition 
over  the  profits  of  any  business  carried  on  by  her  indepen- 
dently of  her  husband.  Her  husband  has  no  right  over  it. 
Therefore  it  is  reasonable  that  he  should  not  be  liable  for 
any  debts  of  his  wife  arising  from  her  separate  trade  or 
business. 

.4.  St.  V.  Jayewardene  for  the  respondent. — Section  10 
of  the  Matrimonial  Rights  and  Inheritance  Ordinance  no- 
where says  that  a  husband  is  not  liable  for  the  trade  debts  of 
his  wife.  It  only  recognizes  the  separate  estate  of  the  wife 
in  her  earnings.  A  change  of  such  far-reaching  effect  cannot 
be  imported  into  the  common  law  merely  by  implication 
from  §  10.  If  the  Legislature  wanted  to  effect  a  change  it 
would  have  specifically  expressed  so.  The  Ordinance  of  1876 
has  always  been  construed  as  recognizing  the  liability  of  the 
husband  to  his  wife's  trade  debts.  Further,  the  husband's 
liability  is  not  an  incident  of  the  community  of  goods. 
This  arises  from  his  marital  power.  By  this  power  the  hu»- 
band  becomes  the  curator  of  his  wife  {Voet  23.  2.  41)  and  he 
must  be  held  liable  for  the  contracts  of  his  wife  entered  into 
by  her  with  his  consent  express  or  implied.  The  husband's 
consent  must  be  implied  where  the  wife  contracts  as  publica 
niercatrlx. 


Manakula- 
ratne 

V. 

Wickrama- 
nayake. 

Laspelles, 
C.J. 


H.  A.  Jayeivardene  in  reply. 


r.  a.  u. 


Lascelles,  C  J- — This  case  raises  a  point  of  some 
interest  with  regard  to  the  liability  of  a  husband  for  his 
wife's  trade  debts.  The  learned  District  Judge  has  found  as 
a  fact  that  the  2nd  defendant  was  trading  in  betel  leaves 
independently  of  her  husband,  and  has  disbelieved  the  evi- 
dence that  the  betel  leaves  in  respest  of  which  the  action  is 
brought  were  supplied  on  the  husband's  orders.  He  has  also 
found  that  the  2nd  defendant  carried  on  the  betel  business 
with  the  knowledge  and  consent  of  her  husband,  and  that 
the  betel  leaves  were  sold  by  the  wife  alone.     On  these  facts 


C.J. 


170  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Manakula-  it  is  contended  that  the  husband  is  not  liable  for  the  wife's 
'■''J'"^        debt.     The   argument   is  that  §  10  of  the  Matrimonial  Rights 

Wickrama-  and  Inheritance  Ordinance  of  1 876  has  by  implication  repealed 
nayake.      ^^^  common  law   with  regard  to  the  husband's  liability  for 

Lascelles,  debts  incurred  by  his  wife  as  a  "piihlicd  riiercafrix".  It  is 
said  that  the  recognition  of  the  separate  property  of  a  married 
woman  in  the  profits  of  any  business  carried  on  by  her 
separately  from  her  husband  is  inconsistent  with  the 
husband's  liability  for  debts  incurred  by  his  wife  in  such 
employment. 

Before  discussing  this  argument  it  should  be  noticed 
that  although  the  Ordinance  has  been  in  force  for  some 
twenty-six  years  §  10  of  the  Ordinance  has  never  been 
understood  to  have  this  far-reaching  effect.  It  should  fur- 
ther be  noticed  that  if  it  was  the  intention  of  the  Legislature 
to  repeal  an  important  branch  of  the  common  law  it  is 
reasonable  to  expect  that  this  intention  would  have  been 
specifically  expressed.  It  is  difficult  to  believe  that  it  was 
intended  by  §  10  to  deal  at  all  with  the  question  of  the 
husband's  liability  of  his  wife's  debts. 

I'he  argument  addressed  to  us  was  to  the  effect  that 
under  the  community  of  goods  the  husband  got  the  benefit 
of  his  wife's  earnings  which  would  go  into  the  community 
and  thus  be  under  the  husband's  control;  hence,  it  was 
argued,  the  husband  was  reasonably  held  responsible  for  his 
wife's  debts.  But  as  soon  as  the  wife's  separate  property  in 
the  profits  of  her  separate  trading  came  to  be  recognized  the 
reason  for  the  husband's  liability  came  to  an  end. 

This  reason  would  not  be  without  a  certain  plausibility 
if  the  husband's  liability  under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  for 
his  wife's  trade  debts  weie  an  incident  of  and  derived  fi'om 
the  community  of  goods.  But  this  is  not  the  case.  The 
liability  of  the  husbjnd  arises  from  a  totally  different  source, 
namely,  the  marital  power  which  the  civil  law  attributed 
to  the     husband,     a    ])owei-  which    Voet  '    observes     "/m/y' 

1.     23,2,41. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  171' 

vetn-t'  jiarinn    ii  patn'a  pafrsfntc  disfuhat".     The  effect  of   Manakula. 
marriage  was  to  constitute  the  husband  the   curator   of   his  y  , 

wife-.  Hence  when  the  wife  contracted  with  the  consent,  Wickrama- 
express  or  implied,  of  the  husband,  the  latter  was  held 
responsible  for  her  debts.  And  it  was  reasonably  considered  Wood 
that  the  consent  of  the  husband  mitst  be  implied  when  the 
wife  was  '^iiiMird.  mrrcn/ I'/.r"  and  the  debt  incurred  "mer- 
catiira'  iiihiihr.  In  such  cases  the  wife  was  held  to  have 
contracted  as  the  husband's  agent  and  on  his  mandate. 

On  this  view  of  the  fundamantal  principles  of  the 
Roman-Dutch  Law  with  regard  to  the  husband's  responsi- 
bilit}-  for  his  wife's  debts  it  is  clear  that  §  10  of  the  Matri- 
monial Rights  and  Inheritance  Ordinance  1876  cannot  be 
construed  to  have  repealed  by  implication  the  existing  law 
on  the  subject. 

The  appeal  in  my  opinion  should  be  dismissed  with 
costs. 

Wood  Renton,  J. — -This  appeal  raises,  apparently  for 
the  first  time,  an  interesting  point  in  the  law  of  husband  and 
wife  in  Ceylon.  .1  woman,  married  after  the  Matrimonial 
Rights  and  Inheritance  Ordinance  (No  15  of  1876)  came 
into  operation,  trades  independently  of  her  husband,  but 
with  his  knowledge  and  consent.  She  is  admittedly  her- 
self liable  for  debts  incurred  by  her  in  the  course  and  for 
the  purposes  of  this  trade.  But  is  her  husband  liable  also  ? 
The  learned  District  Judge  has  answered  this  question  in  the 
affirmative,  and,  in  my  opinion,  he  has  done  so  rightly. 

The  case  turns  on  the  interpretation  and  scope  of  §  10  of 
the  Ordinance  of  1876.     That  section  is  in  these  terms  : — 

"The  wages  and  earnings  of  any  married  woman, 
"whether  married  before  or  after  the  proclamation  of 
"this  Ordinance,  which  may  be  acquired  or  gained  by 
"her  after  the  proclamation  of  this  Ordinance  in  any 
"employment  or  trade  in  which  she  is  engaged  or  which 
"she  carries  on  separately  from  her  husband,  and  also 
"any  money  or  property  so  acquired  by  her  through  the 


172 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Manakula- 
ratne 

V. 

Wiokrama- 

nayake. 

Wood 
Renton,  J. 


"exercise  of  any  literary,  artistic,  or  Bcientific  skill,  shall 
"be  deemed  and  taken  to  be  her  separate  property, 
"independent  of  the  debts,  control,  or  engagements  of 
•'her  husband,  and  she  shall  have  as  full  power  of 
"dealing  with  and  disposing  of  the  same  or  any  invest- 
"ment  thereof  as  if  she  were  unmarried,  and  her  receipts 
"alone  shall  be  a  good  discharge  for  such  wages,  earn- 
"ings,  money,  and  property  and  the  principal  and 
"interest  of  any  investments  thereof." 

It  is  contended  that  when  the  Legislature  in  this  enact- 
ment provided  that  the  wife  should  have  as  full  power  of 
dealing  with  and  disposing  of  the  class  of  separate  property 
which  it  created  as  if  she  were  unmarried,  it  must  have 
intended  to  free  her  husband  from  all  her  liabilities  in  regard 
to  it.  I  do  not  think  that  decisions  under  the  English 
Married  Women's  Property  Acts  give  us  much  assistance  in 
dealing  with  the  point  raised  by  this  appeal.  These  decisions 
turn  largely  on  considerations  as  to  whether  or  not  a  married 
woman  in  contracting  debts  should  be  deemed  to  be  her 
husband's  agent ;  whereas  Roman-Dutch  Law,  on  which  the 
Ordinance  of  1876  was  grafted,  subjected  the  wife's  power  of 
contracting  to  her  husband's  control  because  it  regarded  her 
as  being  under  his  guardianship  or  curatory.  It  will  be 
observed  that  §  10  applies  whether  the  marriage  was  con- 
tracted before  or  after  the  commencement  of  the  Ordinance. 
Under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law,  apart  from  the  Ordinance, 
where  a  wife  with  the  consent  of  her  husband  publicly 
carried  on  a  trade,  her  debts  incurred  in  the  course  of  such 
trade  became  debts  of  the  community.  (See  Burge,  2nd  ed. 
vol.  3  page  400.)  §  8  of  the  Ordinance  of  1876  abolishes^for 
the  future  the  community  of  goods  as  a  consequence  ipso 
jure  of  marriages,  and  §  10  relaxes,  in  the  case  of  women 
married  in  community  before  the  Ordinance  came  into  opera- 
tion, the  old  law  of  community  to  this  extent  that  it  makes 
the  class  of  property  with  which  it  deals  the  exclusive 
property  of  the  wife.  But  §  10  does  not  provide  that  in  such 
cases  debts  incurred  by  the  wife  in  regard  to  her  separate 
property   shall   be  her   debts   alone,  nor  does  it  contain  any 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  173 

language  that  would  justify  us  in  laying  down  such  a  rule 
even  in  regard  to  marriages  contracted  after  the  Ordinance 
came  into  operation,  and,  therefore,  not  subject  to  the  law  of 
community.  §  10  confers  upon  the  wife  express  rights  and» 
1  have  no  doubt,  also  implied  liabilities  in  regard  to  her 
separate  property.  But  it  contains  nothing  that  would 
warrant  us  in  holding  that  it  releases  a  husband  from  his 
common  law  obligations  as  to  debts  incurred  by  his  wife 
while  trading  with  his  consent  as  a  public  merchant. 

I  would  dismiss  this  appeal  with  costs. 

Ap2Jeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant. — G.  A.  Wille. 

Proctor  for  respondent. — O  A .  Jayeseherc. 


-:o 


PERIS   V.   VALENTINE   et  al. 

No.  18,267,  P.  C,  Colombo. 

Present:   Ennis,  J. 

19th  December,  1912. 

False  ease- — pmiishmetit  iiiiih  r  ^  197,  Crimmal  Procedure  Code — fri- 
rolous  and  rexations  cases. 

Section  197  of  th«  Criminal  Procedure  Code  is  meant  to  deal  with 
ca«eB  other  than  false  cases.  The  section  was  never  intended  to  enable 
the  Court  to  punish  what  was  in  effect  perjury. 

This  was  an  appeal  by  the  complainant  against  an  order 
to  pay  compensation  under  section  197  of  the  Criminal  Pro- 
cedure Code. 

H.  A.  Jayeivardene  for  the  complainant-appellant. — 
§  197  empowers  the  Magistrate  to  punish  those  who  bring 
frivolous  and  vexatious  complaints  before  the  Court.  It  does 
not  empower  the  magistrate  to  punish  summarily  the  serious 
offence  of   instituting  a  false  charge.    "Vexatious"  must  be 


174  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Peris       read  as  ejusdem  generis  with  "frivolous"      Both  the  words 
Valentine.  ^Pplj  ^^  ^^^^  class  of  cases  in  which  the  law  had  been  invok- 
ed  heedlessly   and    without   sufiicient  cause.     Loku  Mai  v. 
Ennis.J.     Jetho  Jlule.^ 

Scnidirisegiri  for  the  respondent. — .-\  case  that  is  false 
is  also  vexatious. 

Ennis,  J. — In  my  opinion  the  ordei-  made  in  this  case 
for  compensation  cannot  stand.  The  Magistrate  has  found 
the  case  to  be  entirely  false,  and  §  197  is,  in  my  opinion 
meant  to  deal  with  cases  other  than  faUe  cases.  In  a  false 
case  there  is  a  criminal  action  for  perjury,  there  is  also  a  civil 
action  for  the  recovery  of  damages,  neithei-  of  which  actions 
exist  in  cases  which  are  merely  frivolous  or  vexatious  ;  and 
I  consider  the  section  was  never  intended  to  enable  the  Court 
to  punish  what  was,  in  eflEect,  perjury. 

I  allow  the  appeal  and  set  aside  the  order  for  compensa- 
tion, and  in  review  set  aside  the  oi-der  for  the  payment  of 
Crown  costs. 

Set  a  Aide. 


1.     (190S)  9  Or.  L.  J.  255, 


COURT    OP     APPEAL    CASES.  175 

VANMIGALINGAMUDALY     r.     SANGARAN      ASARY. 

No.  30,113,  C.  R.,  Colombo. 

PiYseiit:   Pereira.  J. 

24th    April,  1913. 

ffri'ixnr}/  <ni//i — I'n'ihirf  of  party  eltallen/jcfl  tii  tahr  the  it/tt/i  tJirow/h 
iicr'ulrnt  or  ii nforcxreii  cioise — can  opposite  jJarti/  ivitlidraii^ 

When  a  party  to  a  judicial  proceeding  has  once  agreed  to  be  bound 
by  an  oath  to  be  taken  by  another  party  he  cannot  be  allowed  to  with- 
draw from  his  undertaking  except  for  reasons  which  the  Court  considers 
to  be  sound. 

If  the  party  who  has  consented  to  take  an  oath  designedly  or 
negligently  omits  to  do  so  at  the  time  and  place  fixed,  the  opposite  party 
may  be  allowed  to  refuse  to  continue  to  be  bound  by  hi?  undertaking  i 
but  where  the  omission  is  due  to  pure  accident  or  to  unforeeeen  causes 
over  which  the  party  in  default  had  no  control,  the  opposite  party  should 
not  be  allowed  to  withdraw  from  his  undertaking  to  be  bound  by  the 
oath. 

In  this  case  the  defendant  challenged  the  plaintiff  to 
take  the  decisory  oath  in  a  Hindu  temple  at  Kotahena.  The 
plaintiff  accepted  the  challenge,  but  he  failed  to  take  the  oath 
the  reason  being  that  when  he  went  to  the  Court  premises  in 
search  of  the  Aratchie  who  was  commissioned  to  administer 
the  oath  'the  Aratchie  was  not  there.  The  plaintiff  having 
waited  for  some  time  went  away.  When  the  case  came  on 
subsequently  plaintiff's  counsel  contended -that  the  failure  to 
take  the  oath  was  due  to  pure  accident  and  that  the  plaintiff 
should  be  given  another  opportunity  to  take  the  oath.  The 
Commissioner  was  of  opinion  that  whether  the  failure  was  due 
to  accident  or  design,  the  commission  issued  to  the  Aratchie 
having  expired  on  the  day  on  which  the  oath  was  to  be  taken 
the  defendant  ceased  to  be  liable  to  be  bound  by  the  plain- 
tiff's oath.  He  accordingly  proceeded  with  the  trial  and 
dismissed  plaintiff's  action  with  costs.     The  plaintiff  appealed. 

Ai'iiianaJidaii  for  the  appellant. — The  failure  of  the 
plaintiff  to  take  the  oath  was  due  to  pure  accident.  He  did 
all  he  could  to  comply  with  his  undertaking  ;  but  on  account 


176 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Venmigalin- 
gamudaly. 

T 

Aaary. 
Pereira,  J. 


of  the  absence  of  the  Aratchie  he  was  unable  to  take  the  oath. 
Under  such  circumstances  the  respondent  should  not  be 
allowed  to  withdraw  from  his  undertaking  {Ram  Naran 
Singh  v.  Bahu  Singhy.  The  respondent  should  not  be  allow- 
ed to  withdraw  from  a  solemn  engagement  entered  into  by 
him  in  open  Court  merely  because  of  an  accident.  There 
cannot  be  said  to  be  any  neglect  or  design  on  the  part  of  the 
appellant. 

The  opinion  of  the  Commissioner  that  the  commission 
issued  to  the  Aratchie  having  expired  the  respondent  can 
withdraw  is  not  sound.  The  Court  has  the  power  to  reissue 
the  commission. 

E.  G.  P.  Jayetileke  for  the  respondent. — There  is  no 
proof  that  the  appellant's  failure  to  be  at  the  appointed  place 
was  due  to  accident.  Even  if  it  was,  the  commission  had 
expired  and  could  not  be  re-issued.  The  respondent  agreed 
to  be  bound  by  the  oath  of  the  appellant  on  a  particular  day 
at  an  appointed  place. 

Arulanandan  in  reply. — In  matters  of  this  kind  the 
day  is  not  of  the  essence  of  the  agreement. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira,  J. — In  this  case  it  appears  that  the  defendant 
ofiEered  to  be  bound  by  an  oath  to  be  taken  by  the  plaintiff 
in  a  Hindu  temple  at  Kotabena.  The  plaintiff  failed  to 
take  the  oath,  and  thereupon  the  Commissioner  proceeded 
with  the  trial  in  spite  of  objection  taken  thereto  by  the  plain- 
tiff's counsel.  The  contention  in  the  Court  below  apparently 
was  the  same  as  that  pressed  in  appeal,  namely,  that  the 
omission  of  the  plaintiff  to  take  the  oath  was  due  to  acci- 
dent. The  appellant's  counsel  has  stated  without  contradic- 
tion by  the  other  side  that  he  moved  the  Commissioner  to 
decide  before  proceeding  with  the  trial  the  question  whether 
the  plaintiff's  omission  to  take  the  oath  was  due  to  accident,  but 
that  the  Commissioner  thought  that  the  question  was  irrele- 


l.     /.  L.  R.  IS  All  46. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASKS.  177 

vant.     It  appears  from  the  judgment  that  the  Commissioner  Vanmigalin- 

«..,,,,  .  ,  .       ffamudaly 

was  ot  op  mi  on  that  whether  the  omission  was  due  to   acci-  y. 

dent  or  design  the  so-called  commission  issued  to  some  Asary. 
officer  of  the  Court  to  administer  the  oath  having  expired  the  Pereira,  J. 
defendant  ceased  to  be  liable  to  be  bound  by  the  plaintiff's 
oath.  1  cannot  assent  to  that  proposition.  When  a  party  to 
a  judicial  proceeding  has  once  agreed  to  be  bound  by  an  oath 
to  be  taken  by  another  party  he  cannot  be  allowed  to  with- 
draw from  his  undertaking,  except  for  reasons  which  the  Court 
considers  to  be  sound.  The  case  of  Ram  Narain  Singh  v. 
Bahu  Singh'^,  cited  by  the  appellant's  Counsel,  is  in  point. 
If  the  party  who  has  consented  to  take  an  oath  designedly  or 
negligently  omits  to  do  so  at  the  time  and  place  fixed,  the 
opposite  party  may  be  allowed  to  refuse  to  continue  to  be 
bound  by  his  undertaking  ;  but  where  the  omission  is  due 
to  pure  accident,  or  to  unforeseen  causes  over  which  the  party 
in  default  had  no  control,  it  will  be  manifestly  unreasonable, 
and,  indeed  it  will  lead  to  an  undesirable  evasion  of  a  solemn 
agreement  entered  into  in  open  Court,  to  allow  the  opposite 
party  to  withdraw  from  his  undertaking  to  be  bound  by  the 
oath.  The  Court  should  in  all  cases  adjudicate  upon  the 
soundness  of  the  reason  given  for  the  omission.  The  order 
on  this  appeal  will  be  that  the  case  do  go  back  to  enable  the 
Commissioner  to  adjudicate  upon  the  soundness  of  the  reason 
given  by  the  plaintiff  for  his  omission  to  make  oath  so 
agreed  upon  at  the  time  and  place  appointed  for  the  purpose. 
If  he  rules  in  his  favour,  and  the  plaintifi:  makes  oath  there- 
after, the  judgment  appealed  from  will  be  vacated  by  the 
Commissioner  and  judgment  entered  up  in  terms  of  the 
agreement  of  the  ;5rd  December,  1912.  Otherwise,  the 
present  judgment   will   stand.     The  appellant  will  have  his 

costs  of  appeal. 

Set  aside  and  sent  back. 

Proctor  for  appellant.— J.  H.  B.  Joseph. 

Proctor  for  respondent. — Adrian  de  Livera. 


TABLE  OF   CASES  REPORTED. 


PAGE 

Don  Adrian  v.  Nicholas  Appuhamy 

.     L51 

•Costa  u,  Livera 

.      28 

Deonis  t;.  Labonis 

.     125 

In  the  matter  of  the  Last  will  of  Don  Mathes  de  Silva 

.       41 

de  Silva  v.  de  Silva 

.     121 

Dharmasena  r.  Sudumama 

.      37 

Dralle  »».  Ebramjee 

.     137 

Fernando  /'.  Migel  Appu  ... 

.     102 

Fernando  v.  Perera 

.      U 

Fonseka  v,  Fernando 

.       S2 

Fonseka  v.  Narayanen  Chetty 

.       4.'i 

Croonewardene  lk  Goonewardene 

.    i4;» 

-Goonewardene  v.  Silva 

.       53 

Ismail  Lebbe  v.  Uduma  Lebbe 

1 

-Jango  Appu  o.  Somawathi 

.    ]  «t; 

■Jayashamy  v.  Abeysuriya 

.       34 

The  King  u.  Kalu  Banda  ... 

.       61 

Kristnappa  Chetty  /•.  Carpen  Chetty 

.       11 

Manakularatne  o.  Wickramanayake 

.     ICH 

Mohamedbhoy  v.  Lebbe  Marikar 

.       71 

Moharamadu  u.  Babun 

.       Hi) 

Mudianse  r.  Appuhamy    .. 

.     IGO 

Omer  v.  Fernando 

.     128 

Perera  v.  Abeyratne 

.')'> 

Perera  i\  Pesonahamy 

.       2C. 

Perera  r.  Seneviratne 

.     154 

Perera  r.  Valentine 

.     173 

Porolis  V.  Romanis 

.     163 

Ran  Menika  r.  Mudalihamj 

.     116 

Robert  r.  AbeyAvardene    .. 

.       23 

Selembram  v.  Perumal 

.     104 

Silva  i\  Silva 

HS 

Silva  V.  Asohamy 

.        'Jl 

Sourjah  r.  Umul  Falleela... 

... 

.     112 

Soysa  V.  Ranesinghe 

... 

.     157 

Sumanasara  /•.  Seneviratne 

.       D9 

Vanmugalingamudaly  i'.  Sangavan  Asary  ... 

.     17r, 

Velupillai  r.  Casipillai 

.       4!l 

Wickramaratne  i>.  Dingiri  Baba 

..     132 

Wickremesinghe  r.  Punchi 

Nona 

.       43 

(     vi     ) 

page: 

Adioii — 

(i)    For  cancellation  of  mortgage  bond — not  an  action  for 

breach  of  contract. 

See  "Civil  Procbdure  Code,  (i) "  2(> 

(ii)  By  judgment  debtor  to  set  aside  sale  for  irregularities. 

See  "  Civil  Procedure  Code,  (iii)"  55- 

(iii)  Rci  vindicatio — sale  pending  mortgage  action 

See  "FISCAL'S  Sale,    (ii)  "  8&- 

(iv)  Action  to   recover  mmiey   advanced  on    a.    written 

agreement  for  hire 

See  "Prescription,   (iii) "  31 

(v)    For  damages — seizwe  of  property  ivithout  warrant 

or  order  of  cmirt 

See  "Damages,   (i)  " 
(vi)  For  malicimis  prosecution 

*S'ee /'Malicious  Prosecution,"  151 

(yii)  For  passing  off  soap 

See  "Trade  Mark,"  13T 

(viii)  No  separate  action  for  setting  aside  sale  in  crecution 

See  "Civil  Procedure  Code,  (iii) "  55- 

Admission — 

See  "Confession."  61 

Admissibility  of  Evidence — 

(i)       See  "Evidence  (ii),  &  (iv)"  &  "Confession"  45,  01,  121 
(ii)    When  document  sufficiently  utawpcd  to  he  adminis- 

ble  in  evidencp. 

See  "Cheque."  11 

Administrators — 

Stamp — prohate  or  adminisfra/iaii  duty. 

The  value  of  an  estate  for  the  purpose  of  ascertaining 
probate  or  administration  duty  is  its  value  at  the 
death  of  the  deceased,  and  not  at  the  date  of  filing 
of  the  final  account. 

In  re  Last  Will  of  Don  Mathbs  de  Silva, 
486,  District  Court,  Tangallb  41 

Agreement — 

(i)     Sub.vf/iicnt  writlni  agj-eemeiit  to  vary  prior   iiol- 

<i rial  mortgage  blind.     <SVe  "EVIDENCE,  (ii)  "  45- 

(ii)   Informal  Jraw.     Srr  "Lease,  (i)  "  121 

(iii)  To  refer  to  arbitirt/ion.     Urc  "ARBITRATION."  If)? 

Annuity — 

See  "PresCRIPION  (ii)  "  ,S2 


(      Tii       ) 


PAGE 


Appeal, — See  also  "Village  Tribunal." 

Appealable  order — order  of  Police  Magistrate  ref- 
erring to  a  Village  Tribunal  a  charge  not  triable 
hy  that  Tribunal. — Oriminal  Procedure  Code  §  338 

An  order  of  transfer  to  the  Village  Tribunal  of  a 
charge  which  that  Tribunal  has  no  power  to 
entertain  is,  as  regards  that  charge,  a  final  order 
within  the  meaning  of  §  338  of  the  Criminal 
Procedure  Code,  aind  is  appealable. 
Goonewardene   v.  Silva,    No.    18035,   Police 

Court,  Negombo.  5S 

Arbitration — 

(i)  Arbitrator  receiving  fees  from  one  party  before 
(uvard  made — legal  misconduct — 6ms — uncons- 
cious bias — proof  of  par^tiality  not  necessary. 

It  is  legal  misconduct  for  the  arbitrator  to  receive 
his  fees  from  one  of  the  parties  before  the  com- 
pletion of  his  award. 

Any  act  amounts  to  legal  misconduct  if  it  would 
give  rise  to  a  reasonable  probability  that  the 
arbitrator  would  be  subjected  to  any  improper 
influence. 

In  order  to  constitute   legal   misconduct   it   is   not 
necessary  to  prove  dishonesty  or  partiality  on  the 
part  of  the  arbitrator. 
Fernando   /■.  Migel  Appu.  No.   19371,  Curot 

of  Requests,  Negombo.  210' 

(ii)  Partnership — agreement  to  refer  matters  in  dispute 
til  arbitrntiini — charges  of  frond — discretion  oj 
Court— ^  8  of  Ordinance  No.  15  of  1866. 

Under  §  8  of  Ordinance  No.  15  of  18G6,  the  Court 
has  a  discretion  with  regard  to  compelling  the 
parties  to  an  agreement  to  resort  to  arbitration ; 
and  the  Court  is  not  obliged  to  take  this  step,  if  it 
is  satisfied  that  there  is  sufficient  reason  why  such 
matters  cannot  be  referred  to  arbitration  under 
the  agreement. 

Where  fraud  is  charged,  and  objection  to  arbitration 
is  by  the  party  charging  the  fraud,  the  Court  will 
not  necessarily  accede  to  it,  but  the  Court  will  in 
general  refuse  to  send  the  dispute  to  arbitration 
if  the  party  charged  with  fraud  desires  a  public 
inquiry  in  regard  to  the  allegations  made  against 
him. 

Wood  Renton,  J. — The  claims  in  the  respondent's 
plaint  for  tlie  appointment  of  a  receiver  and  for 
the  grant  of  an  injunction  deal  with  matters  beyond 
the  competence  of  arbitrations,  and  can  only  be 
satisfactorily  disposed  of  by  the  ordinary  tribunals. 
SOYSA  i\  Ranbsighe,  No.  21,514,  District  Court,  Kandy.       157 


(    viii     ) 

PAGE 

Attorney-General — 

See  "Appeal"  and  "Village  Tribunal" 

Where  Police  Magistrate  orders  transfer  of   case   to 

Village  Tribunal,  no  leave  necessary. 
GOONEWARDENE  V.  SiLVA,  No.  18035,  Police  Court, 

Negombo.  -^^ 

£U(  See  "Arbitrator"  102 

Bina  Marriage  Sec  "Kandyan  Law  (i) "  1 16 

Bone  fide  See  "Municipal  Council"  1 12 

Bona  fide  possessor  See  "Improvements"  86 

Cause  of  Action.  See  "Civil  Procedure  Code  (i) " 

A  defendant  in  an  action  in  the  Court  of  Requests 
is  not  bound  to  claim   in  reconvention  on  a  dis- 
tinct and  separate  cause  of  action. 
Perera  v.   Pesonahamy,  No.   303,   Court   of 

Re(iuests,  Gampola  2(» 

Civil  Procedure  Code 

(i)  Civil  Procedure  Code  §  §  207  and  §  81 1— Court  of 
Requests— action  hy  mortgagors  for  cancellation 
of  hoiid— failure  of  mortgagee  to  claim  in  recon- 
vention monei/  due — Suhsegtient  action  by  mort- 
gagee— is  action  resjudicata  ? 
In  an  action  by  a  mortgagor  to  have  a  mortgage 
bond  cancelled  and  discharged,  the  mortgagee  is 
is  not  )50und  to  claim  in  re-convention  the  money 
due  on  the  bond,  and  a  subsequent  action  on  the 
bond  is  not  barred  by  §  207  or  §  817  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  ode. 

A  defendant  in  an  action  is  not  bound  to  claim  in 
reconvention  on  a  distinct  and  separate  cause  of 
action. 

An  action  for  the  cancellation  of  a  bond  can  hardly 
be  regarded  as  an  action  for  a  breach  of  contract 
within  the  meaning  of  §  817  of  the  Civil  Proce- 
dure Code. 

Perera  v.  Pesonahamy,  No.  303,  Court  of  Requests, 
Gampola  26 

'(ii)    Mortgage  of  several  lands — rigid  of  mortgagee  to  sell 

in  any  order — absence  of  special  directions  in   tJw 

decree— h  207.  Civil  Procedure  Code. 
In  the  absence  of  a  special  direetion  by  the  Judge, 

it  is  quite  open  to  the  mortgage  creditor  to  exercise 

his  own  discretion  as  to  the  order  in  which  the 

lands  shall  be  sold. 
The  mere  fact  that  the  lands  are  scheduled  in  the 

decree  in  a  certain  order  is  not  tantamount  to  a 

direction  to  sell  them  in  that  order. 

WiCKREMESiNCiHE  v.  PuNCHi  NONA,  District  Court, 

Matava.  No.  524i;.  4:j 


IX 


PAGE 


(iii)     Civil  Peoceduee  Code   §   344 — execution  of  de- 
cree— suit  by  j udgment- debtor  to  set  aside     sale 
on  the  ground  of  irregularities — parties  to  the 
suit- 
A   judgment  debtor  who   seeks   to   have   a   sale  in 
execution  of  a  decree  set  aside  on  the  ground  of 
irregularities   cannot   institute   a   separate  action 
for  the  purpose  but  should  proceed  in  the  same 
action  as  provided  by  §  344  of  the  Civil  Procedure 
Code. 
The  fact  that  the  purchaser  is  a  stranger   to   the 
action  in  which  the  decree   was  passed  will  not 
prevent  the  application  of  §  344. 
Peeeea   V-   Abeyeatne,   District   Court,   Colombo, 

No.  33620.  55 

(iv)  Civil  Peoceduee  Code  §  218  (k) — FiscaVs  sale  of 
fidei-comDiissary's  Interest  during  life-time  of 
fidncidrius — e.vprcffint  ot  contingent  interest. 
During  the  life-time  ot  the  fiduciary  the  interest  of  a 
tidei-coinmissary  in  property  subject  to  a  fidei- 
comnilssum  is  an  expectancy  of  succession  by 
survivorship  within  the  meaning  of  §  218  (k)  of 
the  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  is  not  capable  of 
seizure  and  sale. 

MoHAMEDBHOY  v-  Maeikae,  District  Court,  Colombo, 

No.  24875  71 

(v)  Issue  of  weit — death  of  j  adgment-debtor— seizure 
and  sale  of  propertij  after  death  of  jiidgment- 
deldoi — legal  representative  not  substituted  as 
defendant  of  record — sale  confirmed — are  seizure 
and  sale  valid? — Civil  Procedure  Code  %%  341 
and  344- 
See  "  Seizuee  (iii)" 

Omer  r.  Peenando,  No.  31771,  District  Courts 
Colombo  128 

Cheque — 

A  post-dated  cheque  is  not  invalid. 

The  effect  of  the  .>tamp  Ordinance  No.  22  of  1909 
has  been  to  assimilate  the  Law  of  Ceylon  as 
regards  post-dated  cheques  to  the  Law  of  England. 

Section  64  of  the  Stamp  Ordinance  of  1909  does  not 
apply  to  cheques. 

To  determine  whether  a  document  is  sufficiently 
stamped  for  the  purpose  of  deciding  upon  its  ad- 
missibility in  evidence,  the  document  itself  must 
be  looked  at  and  not  any  collateral  circumstances. 

Ramenchetty  v.  Ghouse,  (16  Cal.  433)  followed. 

The  imposition  of  a  penalty  will  not  render  a  con- 
tract illegal  where  the  object  of  the  penalty  is  to 
deter  persons  from  entering  into  the  contract  or 
to  protect  the  revenue. 


(       X       ) 


PAGE 


Mellis  V-  Shirley    and  Freamantle    Loca,l    Board 

(16  Q.  B.  D.  446)  followed. 
Keistnappa  Chetty  V-  Cabpen  Chetty,  No.  21155, 

District  Court,  Kandy  11 

Claim  in  reconveniion 

See  "  Civil  Procbduee  Code  (i)  "  26 

Compensation,  order  for, 

See  "  Ceiminal  Peoceduee  Code  (i)  "  49 

Complaint — 

Frivolous    or    Vexatious— See    "Ceiminal     Peo- 

CEDufeE  Code  (i)"  49 

Confession — 

The  accused  was  tried  for  voluntarily  causing  hurt 
to  B.  The  defence  set  up  by  him  in  his  statutory 
declaration  in  the  Police  Court,  and  also  in  the 
Supreme  Court,  was  that  he  had  struck  B  with  a 
mammoty  in  detending  himself  against  an 
attack  which  B  made  on  him  with  a  knife.  The 
prosecution  proved  that  the  accused  had  made  a 
certain  statement  to  a  police  officer  (headman), 
and  that  in  that  statement  he  had  not  charged  B 
with  having  attacked  or  threatened  (o  atiack 
him  with  a  knife  or  mentioned  that  he  had  himself 
struck  B  with  a  mammoty. 

Held,  that  such  a  statement  is  a  confession  and 
therefore  inadmissible  in  evidence  under  §  25  of 
the  Evidence  Ordinance. 

The  evidence  of  the  police  officer  referring  to  the 
omission  of  the  accused  to  set  up  the  defence  on 
\vhich  he  subsequently  re!iej  was  evidence  of  a 
statement  by  the  accused  suggesting  the  inference 
that  the  defence  on  which  he  rehed  was  not  set  up 
by  him  at  the  time  when,  if  true,  it  would  natural- 
ly have  been  set  up  and  that  it  was  there- 
fore false  and  consequently  that  he  had  com- 
mitted the  offence  of  which  he  was  charged. 

Pee  Lascelles,  C.J.— When  a  pohce  headman  is 
allowed  to  prove  that  the  accused,  shortly  after-the 
offence  was  committed,  made  a  statement  to  him 
and  in  that  statement  made  no  reference  to  the 
plea  of  self-defence,  he  is,  in  effect,allowed  to  prove 
that  the  accused  made  a  statement  which  was 
different  from  and  inconsistent  with  the  defence 
which  he  afterwards  set  up.  Proof  of  such  a 
statement  is  something  more  than  evidence  of 
conduct  under  §  8  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance, 


(  M  ) 


PAGE 


PeePereira,  J. — It  is,  I  think,  clear  that  if  evi- 
dence of  an  actual  statement  suggesting  an  infer- 
ence adverse  to  the  accused  is  inadmissible,  a  for- 
tiori would  evidence  he  inadmissible  which  in  a  way 
is  descriptive  of  a  statement  and  which  carries 
with  it  the  insinuation  that  an  exculpatory  cir- 
cumstance relied  on  by  the  accused  for  his  defence 
was  no  part  of  his  statement. 

Per  Eknis,  J. — To  allow  evidence  by  a  police 
officer  of  the  substance  of  a  statement  made  to 
him  by  an  accused  from  which  incriminating  cir- 
cumstances may  be  inferred  would,  I  consider,  be 
contrary  to  the  intention  of  §  25. 

Deonis  v.  Peeris  Appu ,  (7  Tamb.  28)  followed. 
The    King    v.    Kalu    Banda,    No.   16,189  Police 

Court  Kegalle  61 

Confirmation  of  Sale  by  Court — 

Seizure  invalid — See  "Seizure"  128 

Contract — 

(i)      action  for  cancellation  of   mortgage  bond — breach 

of  contract—See '  'Civil  Procedure  Code  (i)"  26 

(ii)     Is  penalised  contract  illegal''.     /See  "Cheque"  11 

Co-owner — 

(i)  One  co-owner  cannot  build  on  a  land  held  in  com- 
mon without  the  consent  of  the  other  co-owners, 
unless  the  land  was  acquired ,  or  at  least  held,  by 
the  co-owners  as  a  building  site. 

Where  such  consent  ic  withheld,  the  remedy  of  a  co- 
owner  is  to  institute  a  partition  action. 

The  law  does  not  prohibit  one  co-owner  from  the 
use  and  enjoyment  of  the  property  in  such  man- 
ner as  is  natural  and  necessary  under  the  circum- 
stances. 

Silva    V.  Silva    (6  N.L.R.   225)    and  Siyadoris  v- 

Hendrick  (6  N.L.R.  275)  referred  to. 
Goonewaedenr  ?;.  Goonewardene,  No.  7334,  Court 

of  Requests,  Galle  H9 

(ii)     Cutting   down   fence  in  assertion  of    right — See 

"  Penal  Code  (ii)"  163 

Costs— 

Oosts  of  the  day — order  dismissing  action  if  costs 

not  paid  before  next  day  of  trial  bad- 
See    "Jurisdiction  "  99 
Court  of  Requests — 

(i)      Action  for    cancellation    of  mortgage  bond — de- 
fendant not  bound  to  claim  money  due  in  recon- 
vention- 
See    "  Civil  Procedure  Code  (i)  "  20 


(    xii    ) 

PAGE 

(ii)     Jtjrisdiction— i?e?nam(i(?r  of  the  term  of  the  lease 
.  —damages  for  being  kept  out  of  possession  be- 
.  fore  action— value  of  right  involved- 
Where  the  plaintiff  alleged  an  ouster    and  claimed  a 
right  of  possession  for  the   remainder   of  the  term 
of  a  lease   and   also  claimed   damages  for  having 
been  kept  out  of  possession  for  the   period  before 
action. 
Held,  that  the  value  of  the   plaintiff's  right  to  pos- 
•  session  must  be  calculated  as  for  the  full    term   of 
the  lease,  as  the  plaintiff  can  be  awarded    damages 
for  the  period  before  action    only    on    the  footing 
that  he  was  denied  possession  on  the  lease. 
Deonis  v.  Labonis,    No.  6868  Court  of  Requests, 

Matara  ^^5 

Court— 

See    "  JuEiSDicTioN,"    "  Couet    of  Requests" 

"  Police  CouET  "  26,53,99,125 

Criminal  Procedure  Code — 

(i)  Frivolous  or  vexatious  complaint — orde^'  for  com- 
pensatwn — all  complainant's  witness  not  examin- 
ed— §  197  (i)  Criminal  Procedure  Code- 

There  is  nothing  i;i  §  197  (i),  Criminal  Procedure  Code 
which  either  expressly  or  by  necessary  implication 
requires  a  Police  Magistrate  to  hear  every  witness 
whom  a  complainant  may  desire  to  call  before 
exercising  the  powers  with  which  the  section  has 
invested  him. 

A  charge  that  is  deliberately  false  is  ' '  vexatious  " 
within  the  meaning  of  §  197. 

Velupillai  v.  Casipillai,    No.  6705   Police    Court 

Jaffna  49 

(ii)  False  Case — punishment  under  §  197 — frivolous 
and  vexatious  cases- 
Section  197  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  is  meant 
to  deal  with  cases  other  than  false  cases.  The 
section  was  never  intended  to  enable  the  Court  to 
punish  what  was  in  effect  perjury. 

Peeis    v.    Valentine,    No.     18267    Pohce   Court, 

Colombo  173 

(iii)  Reference  by  u  Police  Court  to  the  Village  Tri- 
bunal of  a  charge  not  triable  by  that  Tribunal- 
final  order— appealable— %S38,  Criminal  Pro- 
cedure Code- 

See    "Police  Court"  53 


(    xiii     ) 
Damages —  PAGE 

(i)  Where  A  caused  a  police  constable  to  seize  and  take 
into  custody  a  pair  of  cartwheels  belonging  to  B, 
alleging  that  the  same  were  stolen  from  him,  and 
where  B  was  unsuccessfully  prosecuted  for  the 
theft  of  the  wheels  and  .subsequently  brought  an 
action  against  A  for  recovery  of  damages  conse- 
quent on  the  detention  of  the  wheels,  and  also 
for  damages  incurred  in  connection  with  the 
criminal  prosecution,  but  did  not  claim  damages 
for  injury  to  honour,  reputation  or  feelings. 

Held,  that  he  could  maintain  his  claim  for  damages 
consequent  on  the  detention  of  the  cart  wheels 
without  averring  or  proving  malice,  but  not  the 
damage  caused  by  reason  of  any  action  of  the 
PoKce  Court,  after  the  charge  against  him  had 
been  preferred  to  it. 

Semblb,  that  Injuria,  in  the  more  specific  sense, 
means  any  word  or  deed  calculated  to  hurt  the 
feelings  of  another  or  to  injure  him  in  his  honour, 
dignity  or  reputation,  and  is  not  actionable  unless 
the  offending  party  can  be  said  to  have  the  animus 
injuriandi 

Under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  proof  of  a;H'??2MS  in- 
juriandi is  not  necessary  in  an  action  where  the 
damage  claimed  is  limited  to  loss  of  property  or 
of  its  temporary  use  or  the  temporory  loss  of 
liberty  by  reason  of  false  prosecution. 

Even  under  the  English  Law  it  is  only  in  the  event 
of  an  actual  prosecution  and  not  of  mere  inform- 
ation to  the  Police  that  malice  need  be  averred 
and  proved  against  the  defendant. 

Austin  V.  Ddwling  (5  C.  P.  510)  followed. 
Fernando  v-  Pbreea,  No.  19796,  Court  of  Requests, 

Negombo  96 

(ii)     Remedy   of  a    jmrfij    defrauded    by    vendo) — 
Suit  for  damar/e.-^- 
See  "  Vendor  and  Vendee  "  71 

(iii)     Can  damages    he    claimed  for   breach   of  non- 
notariid  lease  ? 
See   "  Lease  "  121 

(iv)    Lessee  hrpt  nut  of  possession — Damages. 

See  "Court  of  Requests"  125 

(v)    Damages  for  malicious  prosecution- 

See  "Malicious  Prosecution"  151 

Decisory  Oath — 

(i)      The  failure  on  the  part  of  the   officer  administering 

an  oath  to  take  and  record  contemporaneously  the 

evidence  of  the  persons    sworn   or    affirmed   is  an 

irregularity  which  is  fatal  to  the  proceedings. 

Dharmasena  r.  Sudumama,    No.    15155,  Court  of 

Requests,  Chilaw  37 


PAGE 

(ii)     When  a  party  to  a    judicial    proceeding    has    once 
agreed  to  be  bound  by  an  oath  to  be  taken  by  an- 
other  party    he  cannot  be   allowed   to  withdraw 
from  his  undertaking  except  for  reasons  which  the 
Court  considers  to  be  sound. 

If  the  party  who  has  consented  to  take  an  oath  de- 
signedly or  negligently  omits  to  do  so  at  the  time 
and  place  fixed,  the  "opposite  party  may  be  mI- 
lowed  to  refuse  to  continue  to  be  bound  by  his 
undertaking;  but  where  the  omission  is  due  to 
pure  accident  or  to  unforseen  causes  over  which 
the  party  in  default  had  no  control,  the  opposite 
party  should  not  be  allowed  to  withdraw  from  his 
undertaking  to  be  bound  by  the  oath. 

Vanmigalingamudali     V-    Sangaran    Asary,  No. 

30,113  Court  of  Requests,  Colombo  175 

Decree — 

(i)      Mortgage  of  several  lands— right  of   mortgagee  to 
sell  in  any  ordei — absence  of  special  directions 
in  the  decree — Civil  Procedure  Code  §  ,-iOl. 
See  ''MoRTGA(3E  (ii)  "  43 

(ii    Sale  in  execution  of  decree — irregularities — suit  by 
judgment-  debtor  to  set  aside  sale- 
See  "Civil  Procedure  Code  (iii)" 
Document — 

When    sufficiently    utamprd    to    be  admissible   in 
evidence—See  "Cheque"  11 

Donation — 

Adulterine  bastards  can  take  under  a  gift  or  bequest 
from  the  father. 

Eabot    V.    Mlva      12  N.L.R.  81)     and    Wickrema- 
nayake  v.  Perera  (H  N.L.R.  171)  followed. 

Jayashamy  V-  Abeysueiya,  No.  1 178  District  Court 

Tangalle  34 

English  Law — 

See  "Cheque"  11 

Estoppel — 

See  "  Civil  Procedue     Code  (i)  "  26 

See  "  FiDEi-CoMMissuM  (ii) "  71 

Evidence  Ordinance — 

(i)  ^^  13  &  43 — previous  judgment  not  between  same 
parties — a  "  transaction  or  instance  " — how  far 
relevant  in  subsequent  litigation — res  inter  alios 
acta — res  j  udicata . 

None  of  the  provisions  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance 
were  intended  to  subvert  the  principle  res  inter 
alias  acta  alteri  nocere  nan  debet- 


(      XV      ) 


PAGE 


A  judgment  not  admissible  in  e-vider  ce  under  §43  of 
the  I'^vidence  Ordinance  could  onlj'  be  admi  sible 
under  §  13  to  prove  litigation  on  the  claim  made, 
th  it  is  to  say,  the  assertion  or  denial  of  the  cus- 
tom or  right  in  question  which  constitutes  a 
transaction  or  particular  instance  within  the 
meaning  of  §  13.  It  cannot  be  used  to  prove  that 
the  litigation  was  decided  in  favour  of  one  party 
rather  than  the  other,  nor  are  its  reasons  relevant, 
and  it  is  not  to  be  relied  on  to  show  by  iuself  in 
a  subsequent  litigation  that  either  of  the  parties 
were  right  or  wrong  in  their  assertion  or  denial  of 
the  claim  litigated  or  adjudicated  upon. 

Ismail  Lebbe  v-  Uduma  Lebbe,  No.  3653,  District 

Court,  Kalutara  1 

(ii)  §  92 — notarial  mortgage  bund — subsequent  written 
agreement — to  change  mode  of  payment  and  to 
increase  burden  of  debt — whether  admissible  in 
evidence  and  enforceable  in  any  respect — in- 
terest a^ecting  lajid- 
A  subsequent  non-notarial  written  agreement,  which 
not  only  changes  the  mode  of  payment  of  a  debt 
but  increases  its  burden,  is  inadmissible  in  evi- 
dence for  the  purpose  of  varying  any  prior  notarial 
mortgage  bond.  It  constitutes  one  entire  pro- 
mise which  is  partly  within  and  partly  without 
§  2  of  Ordinance  7  of  1840.  and  therefore  is  not 
enforceable  in  any  respect. 

Such  an  agreement  makes  the  security  bear  a  larger 
debt,  and  consequently  does  affect  the  lands  or 
immovable  property  mortgaged. 

Kiribanda  v-  Ukkubanda  (14  N.L.R.  181)  and 
Lushington  v-  Caroiis  (14  N.L.R.  189)  distin- 
guished. 

FoNSEKA  V    Naeayanejs'  Chetty,  No.  825(i,  District 

Court,  ^egombo  45 

(iii)    §§  5,  i 7,  (£■,.' J— -See  "  Confession  "  61 

(iv)    Informal     h'ase — non- notarial — admlssisbility   in 

evidence..     See  "  Lease  "'  121 

Exceptio  Rei  Venditae  et  Traditae — 

The  plea  of  exceptio  ri'i  vciiditnr  et  traditae  is  not 
available  to  a  party  who  has  never  been  in  posses- 
sion, and  though  it  is  available  against  a  vendor 
it  is  not  available  against  a  subsequent  purchaser 
from  the  vendor. 

Alwis  V.  Fernando  (14  N.L.R.  22)  followed. 

MoHAMEDBHOY  V.  Leebe  Marikab,  No.  24875,  Dis- 
trict Court,  Colombo  71 

False  Case — 

See  "  Ceiminal 'EOCEDlTRE  Code  (ii)  and  (iii)  "        49,173 


(    xvi     ) 


PAGE 


Fidei-commissum  — 

(i)  A  prohibition  against  alienation  out  of  the  family  of 
a  legatee  or  donee  is  itself  sufficient  to  create  a 
fidei-commissum  in  favour  of  the  members  of  the 
family. 

Robert  v.    AsErwARDENE,    No.    10990,    Court  of 

Requests,  Galle  23 

(ii)  During  the  lift -lime  of  the  fiduciary  the  interest  to 
a  fidei-commissary  in  prop.-rty  subject  to  a.  fidei 
commissum  is  an  expectancy  of  succession  by  sur- 
vivorship \\  itbin  the  meaning  af  §  218  (k)  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code  and  is  not  capable  of  seizure 
and  sale. 

Lushingtoni'.  Snmai-ti^iiifjlir,  (2  N.L.R.  295)  dis- 
tinguished. 

Where  a  fidei-commissary  sells  such  an  interest,  title 
does  not  enure  to  the  purchaser  on  the  death  of 
the  fiduciary,  and  a  purchaser  subsequent  to  the 
death  of  the  fiduciary  has  a  superior  title. 

MoHAMEDBHOY  V.  Lebbje  Marixar,  No.  2487  ',  Dis- 
trict Court,  Colombo  71 

(iii)  A  will  contained  the  following  words : — "I  give  and 
devise  unto  my  two  sisiers  the  house  and  premises 
..upon  this  condition,  however,  that  they  shall 
not  sell  mortgage  or  i  i  anj'  other  manner  alienate 
the  said  house  and  premises  but  that  the  same 
shall  be  always  held  and  possessed  by  them  and 
their  heirs  iv  perpetuity  under  the  bond  ol  fidei- 
commissum- 
Held,  that  the  above  words  created  a  valid  fidei- 
commissum  operating  in  favour  of  the  heirs  of  the 
fiduciaries  for  four  generations.  The  words  ''heirs 
in  perpetuity  "  contain  a  sufficient  indication  of 
the  class  in  whose  favour  the  fidei-commissum  is 
created. 

Selambram  V.  Perumal  No.  32611,  District  Court, 
Colombo  104 

F  inal  Order— 

See  "  Order"  53 

Fiscai's  Sale— 

(i)     Interes!  offidei-comnn'8sav//—spQi  successionis. 

See  "  Fidei-commissum  (ii)  "  71 

(11)  Sale  pending  mortucuje  action— no  transfer  at 
date  of  action—subsaquenilij  obtai?ied 

See   "  Mortgage  (iii)  "  gi^ 

(iii)    See   "  Sbizurk"  jog 

Frivolous   and  Vexatious — 

See  "  Criminal  Procedure  Code  (iii)  "  173 


(     xvii     ) 

Page; 

Husband  and  Wife — 

(i)  Under  the  Matrimonial  Rights  and  Inheritance  Or- 
dinance No-  15  of  1876,  a  wife,  though  she  may 
be  living  apart  from  her  husband  by  consent 
under  a  deed  of  separation,  cannot  dispose  of  her 
immovable  property  except  with  the  written  con- 
sent of  her  husband.  Such  consent  must  be 
given  with  special  reference  to  the  property 
sought  to  be  disposed  of. 

WiCKEAMARATNE  v.    DlNGlRI    BABA,    No.    1230, 

District  Court,  Tangalle  132 

(ii)  A  husband  is  liable  for  the  debts  of  his  wife 
though  incurred  by  her  as  a  publira  mercatri.r. 

LascELLBS,  C.J. — The  husband's  liability  under 
the  Roman  Dutch  Law  for  his  wife's  trade 
debts  is  not  an  incident  of  nor  derived  from 
the  community  of  goods.  It  arises  from  the 
marital  power  which  the  Civil  Law  attributes 
to  the  husband,  a  power  which  Voet  observes 
jure  vetere  partim  a  pafria  potestate  distahat. 

Manakularatne  v.  Wickramanayake,  No. 
34,245,  District  Court,  Colombo  IG^ 

Hire  and  Service 

See  "  PRESCRIPTION  (iii)"  91 

Hypothec,  tacit 

See "  Last  Will  (i)"  82 

Improvements 

A  person  who  has  made  improvements  upon  a 
land  with  the  leave  and  license  of  the  owner, 
is  entitled  to  the  /«.s  retention  ix  and  all  the 
other  rights  of  a  bonafidr  possessor. 

Leave  and  license  is  an  intensified  form  of  ac- 
quiescence. 

MOHAMMADU  ■/'.  BABUN,  No.  11285  Court  of 
Requests,  Galle  86 

Inheritance 

See  "  Kandyan  LAW  116 

Injuria 

See "  Damages"  94 

Interest  affecting  land 

See  "  EVIDBNOE  (ii)"  45 

See "  Lease"  121 

Iditestate  Succession 

See "  Kandyan  Law  "  116 


(     xviii     ) 

PAGE 

Irregularity 

Sec  "  Civil  Procedure  Code  (iii)"  55 

Jurisdiction 

(i)     Bcfcrnicc  hij  Police  Cmirt  tn  V.  T.  of  charge  not  tri- 
(iMc  hij  that  tribiiual. 
Si'c  "  Police  Court," '"Vtlla(;b  Tribunals"  35 

(ii)    A  Court  has  no  power  to  make  an  order  that   an 

action  shall  be  dismissed  in   the  event   of  the 

plaintiff's  failing  to   deposit  the   defendant's 

costs  of  the  day  before  the  next  day  of  trial. 

SuMANASARA  v.  SenEVIRATNE,  No.  4774,  District 

Court,  Kalutara  99 

(ii)  Court  of  Rerpiestfi — Ecmuindfr  of  the  term  of  ii 
tease — cJaniages  for  ln'ing  kept  out  of  /losscssion  be- 
fore actio)i — value  of  right  iiivotvecl. 

See  Court  of  Requests  (ii)"  125 

(iii)  See  "  SEIZURE  (ii)"  128 

Jus  Retentionis 

See "  Improvements"  86 

Kandyan  Law 

(i)  A  Kandyan  woman,  married  in  bina,  donated 
during  her  lifetime  all  her  acquired  property  to 
her  two  sons.  The  sons  survived  their  mother, 
but  predeceased  their  father  and  maternal 
grandfather.  In  a  contest  between  the  father 
and  the  grandmother  as  to  the  succession, 

Held,  that  the  property  devolved  on  the  maternal 
grandmother  in  preference  to  the  father. 

Per  Lascelles  C.  J.— This  principle  of  Kandyan 
Law  forms  an  exception  to  the  general  rule  of 
inheritance.  It  is  thus  enunciated  by  Sawer  : 
"  The  father  is  not  the  heir  of  the  property  of 
his  children  born  in  a  liina  marriage,  which 
they  have  acquired  through  their  mother  ;  the 
maternal  uncles  or  next  of  kin  on  the  mother's 
side  being  the  heirs  to  such  property  ;  but  the 
father  will  succeed  to  such  children's  property, 
if  otherwise  acquired. 

Where  Sawer  and  Armour  are  in  conflict,  Sawer's 
is  the  preferent  authority. 

APPuHAMY  v.  DINGIRI  MenIKA  (9  S.C.O.  34)  fol- 
lowed. 

Ran  Menika  v.  MuDALiHAMY,  No.  11017  Court 
of  Requests,  Kegalle  Hg 

(ii)    The  offspring  of  a  Kandyan   father  by   a   Low- 
Country  Sinhalese  woman  cannot  be  said  to  be 
Kandyan,  and  is  not  subjct  to  Kandyan   Law, 
Per  Peeeira  J,— I  am  aware  of  no  rule  of  law 


(    xix    ) 


PAGE 


that  makes  the  offspring  of  a  mixed  union  be- 
long to  the  race  of  either  the  father  or  the 
mother. 

The  Kandyan  Law  is  not  what  may  be  termed  as 
a  local  law  governing  all  persons  living  with- 
in a  certain  area.  It  is  rather  a  personal  law 
attaching  to  the  individuals  wherever  they  may 
be,  belonging  to  a  particular  class  or  section  of 
the  Sinhalese  subjects  of  the  Crown.  That 
being  so,  the  mere  fact  that  a  person  is  born 
or  is  resident  within  the  Kandyan  provinces  is 
insufficient  to  bring  him  within  the  pale  of  the 
Kandyan  Law. 

Section  2  of  the  Ordinance  No.  15  of  1876  has  not 
the  effect  of  rendering  a  Low-country  Sinha- 
lese woman  who  marries  a  Kandyan  liable  to 
be  regarded  as  a  Kandyan. 

MuDiANSE  V.  AppuHamY,  No.  3236,  District 
Court,  Kegalle  160 

Lease 

(i)  Informal  /msv — ran  dania</i:-i  he  /■hdmrd  for  breach 
of  Ike  lease — recor<'ry  (f  advance — rlaini  for 
use  and  occupation . 

An  action  for  damages  cannot  be  maintained  for 
the  breach  of  the  terms  of  an  informal  agree- 
ment of  lease. 

Per  Wood-RenTon,  J. — Where  an  informal  ag- 
reement for  a  lease  has  been  partly  executed, 
the  lessor  is  entitled  to  a  reasonable  sum  in 
respect  of  the  actual  use  and  occupation  of 
the  premises  demised  to  the  lessee.  In  the  same 
way,  where  the  lessee  has  not  had  the  use  and 
occupation  of  the  premises  demised  in  res- 
pect ■  of  which  the  lessor  has  received 
consideration  there  must  be  such  a  re- 
fund of  the  consideration  as  we  have  ordered 
to  be  made  here.  It  will  be  open  to  either  the 
lessor  or  the  lessee  for  the  purpose  of  such  a 
claim  based  on  use  and  occupation  as  I  have 
just  referred,  to  put  in  evidence  the  terms  of 
the  informal  agreement  itself. 

De  Silva  r.  De  SiLVa,  No.  33,358,  District  Court, 

Colombo  121 

^ii^  Bemaindei-  of  the  term  of  the  lease — damages  for 
heing  Itept  out  of  jjos^ession  hefore  action — ralue 
(f  right  involved. 

See  "  Court  of  Requests  (ii)"  125 

l^eave  and  L'cense 

See  "  Improvements"  86 

Legal  Representative 


(     XX     ) 

PAGE 

>S'w  "  Seizure"  128 

Lessor  and  Lessee 

See  "  Lease"  121,  125 

Magistrate  Police 

(i)  There  is  nothing  in  §  197  (1)  Criminal  Procedure 
Code  which  either  expressly  or  by  necessary 
implication  requires  a  Police  Magistrate  to 
hear  every  witness  whom  a  complainant  may 
desire  to  call  before  exercising  the  powers  with 
which  the  section  has  invested  him. 

Vblupillai   v.  Casippillai,    No.    6705,    Police 

Court,  Jaffna  49 

(ii)  Police  Magistrate  refusing  summons — accused  not 
before  Court- — no  2}rosecut'io?i. 

See  "  Malicious  Prosecution  151 

Malice,  proof  of 

See "  Damages"  94 

Mallicious  Arrest 

See  "Damages"  94 

Malicious  Prosecution 

(i)  An  action  for  malicious  prosecution  does  not  lie 
where  the  Police  Magistrate,  having  gone 
through  the  preliminaries  required  by  the  Code, 
refuses  summons  on  the  accused. 

In  order  that  the  proceedings  may  constitute  a 
prosecution  the  accused  should  be  before  the 
Court. 

In  an  action  for  damages  for  injury  caused  by  pro- 
ceedings before  prosecution  the  amount  of  evi- 
dence required  to  prove  that  the  plaintiff  was 
innocent  would  be  much  greater  than  in  a  case 
of  malicious  prosecution,  in  which  case  the 
order  of  the  Criminal  Court  discharging  him 
coupled  with  a  denial  on  oath  that  he  commit- 
ted the  offence  would  create  a  strong  presump- 
tion in  his  favour. 

Adrian  v.  Nicholas,  No.  11312,  District  Court, 
Galle  151 

(ii)  Seizure  of2}r(yperty  without  warrant — is  proof  of 
malice  necessary — 

See "  Damages"  94 

Marriage 

Offspring  of  a  m  i.red  un  ion . 

See  KaNDYaN  LaW  (ii)"  160 

Married  Woman 

See  "  Husband  and  Wife"  132,  les 


(    xxi    ) 


PAGE 


Material  Irregularity 

See  "  Civil  Procedure  Code  (iii)"  55 

Minor 

A  minor  cannot  adiate  an  inheritance  and  is  not 
liable  to  be  sued  for  the  debts  of  the   ancestor. 

Robert  v.  Abbywardene,  No.  10990,  Court  of 
Requests,  Galle,  23 

Misconduct,  Legal 

See "  Arbitrator"  102 

Mischief 

See  "  Penal  Code  (ii)"  163 

Mortgage 

(i)  In  the  absence  of  a  special  direction  by  the 
judge,  it  is  quite  open  to  the  mortgagee-credi- 
tor to  exercise  his  own  discretion  as  to  the 
order  in  which  the  lands  shall  be  sold. 

The  mere  fact  that  the  lands  are  scheduled  in 
the  decree  in  a  certain  order  is  not  tantamount 
to  a  direction  to  sell  them  in  that  order. 

Wickremesinghe  v.  Punch:  Nona,  No.  5246, 

District  Court,  Matara  '  43 

(ii)  Xotai'ial  inortgdiirhinul — fiiibsequeni  ii'iittrn  (uiroe- 
iiteni  to  change  mode  of  jjayjnoi/ — (idmisi^lhility 
in  evidence. 

See  "  EVIDENCE  (ii)"  45 

(iii)  Action  liy  jiiircha:<fr  at  execution  xate  pending 
mortgage  action  aga,inxt  pu/r/uiKer  under  mort- 
gagedecrei' — no  Fisccd'.s  tranffer  at  date  of  action 
— sufficient  if  otitained  before  trial. 

The  right  obtained  by  a  purchaser  at  a  sale  in 
execution,  during  the  pendency  of  a  mortgage 
action  is  subject  to  the  result  of  the  mortgage 
action  and  subject  to  the  decree  therein. 

He  is  not  entitled  to  a  declaration  of  title  and  an 
order  of  ejectment  as  against  the  purchaser 
under  the  mortgage  decree. 

SamiapPu  r.  DISSANAYAKE  (3  Browne  82)  fol- 
lowed, 

SILVA  V.  SiLVA,  No.   26749,    Court    of  requests, 

Colombo.  88 

(iv)  Action  hy  Mortgagors  for  cancellation  of  bond — 
u'hetlier  nmrtgagee  bound  to  claim  in  reconvention 
money  dne — res  judicata. 

See  "  Civil  Procedure  Code  (i).'  26 

Municpal  Council's  Ordinance 

In  a  prosecution  of  the  appellants  under  §  157  of 


(    xxii    ) 

Page 

the  Ordinance  No.  6  of  1910  for  having  failed 
to  remove  within  14  days  of  notice  an  alleged 
projection  into  the  street,  they  set  up  a  bona 
fide  claim  of  right  to  the  projection  based  on 
long  possession. 

Held,  that  the  provisions  of  §  6  of  the  Road 
(amendment)  Ordinance,  which  enacted  that 
the  laws  of  prescription  do  not  apply  to  roads, 
were  fatal  to  tile  defence  set  up  by  the  appel- 
lants. 

SOURJAH  V.  Umul  Falleela.,  No.  437,  Munici- 
pal Court,  Colombo  113 

Oaths'  Ordinance 

Sec  "  Decisory  Oath"  37  175 

Obstruction 

See  "  Right  of  Way"  28 

Officer  Administering  Oath 

See  "  Decisory  oath"  37 

Order,  Final 

(i)    See  "  POLICE  Court,"  "  Appeal"  53 

(ii)    See  "  JURISDICTION"  99 

Ordinances 

(i)     Stamp  Ordinance  No.  32  of  1909. 

See "  Cheque"  11 

(ii)    Ofti/i.s'  Ordinance,  No.  9  of  1895. 

See  "  Decisory  cIath"  37,  175 

(iii)  Ordinance  re  frauds,  No.  7  of  1840. 

See  "  Evidence  (ii)"  45 

See  "  FIDEI-COMMISSUM  (ii).'  71 

See  "  Lease"  121 

(iv)  Laud  Registration  Ordinance,  No  14  of  1891. 

See  "Last  will  (i)"  82 

(v  J  Prrnrription  Ordinance,  No.  22  of  1871. 
Sci'  '  Prescription  (iii)" 

(vi)  Municipal  Coimcih'  Ordinance,  No.  6  of  1910  112 

(vii)  Eoad  (Amendmeni)  Ordinance,  No.  28  of  1910  113 

{yiii)  Matrimonial  Eights  and  Inheritance  Ordinance 
No.  15  of  1876. 

See    Husband  and  Wife"  132,  168 

See  "  Kandyan  Law"  160 

(ix)  Sale  (f  goods'  Ordinance,  No.  11  of  1896. 

See  "  Sale"  154 

(x)  Arlritration  Ordinance,  No,  15  of  I860, 


(    xxiii    ) 

Page 

Sec  "  Arbitration"  157 

(xi)  Partition  Ord inane;''  Xo.  10  of  1863. 

Hcc  "  Partition"  149,  169 

iy.\\)  Police  Ordinance,  No.  16  of  1865. 

See  Police  Court"  53 

Par!n:rship 

Agreement  to  refer  mattei'!<  in  dispute  to  arliitration 
— discretion  of  Court — charges  of  fraud. 

See  "  Arbitartion"  157 

Partition 

(i)  Go-oivner  ivitholding  consent  to  build  on  common 
land — remedy — partition    action. 

See  Co-owner  (i)  149 

(ii)  An  alienation  pending  an  action  for  partition  of 
the  entirety  of  the  action  does  not  contravene 
the  provisions  of  §  17  of  Ordinance  10  of  1863. 

Per  Pereira  J. — That  section  (viz.  §  17)  pro- 
vides that  it  shall  not  be  lawful  for  "  any  of 
the  owners  to  alienate  his  share  or  interest." 
The  words  "  any  of  the  owners"  clearly  imply 
that  the  case  contemplated  is  a  case  of  pro- 
perty owned  by  several  owners,  and  hence  the 
word  "  interest"  can  only  mean  some  interest 
short  of  absolute  ownership  of  the  entirety  of 
the  property. 

JanGO  Appu  v.  SomaWaTHi,  No.  11354,  District  ■ 
Court,  Galle,  Igg 

Passing  off 

See  "  Trade-mark"  137 

Penal  Code 

(i)  §§  S4S  and  409— Reference  hy  Magistrate  to  the 
V.T.  of  case  nut  triable  bij  that  tribunal. 

See  Police  Court"  53 

fii)  ^409- — co-owner  cutting  down  tence  in  assertion  of 
right— i)u,schi(f. 

A  person  can  be  said  to  be  guilty  of  mischief  only 
if  he  acts  spitefully,  maliciously  or  wantonly. 
He  should  either  intend  to  cause  wrong- 
ful loss  or  know  that  wrongful  loss  is  likely  to 
be  caused  to  some  person. 

A  co-owner  who  removes  a  fence  in  the  assertion 
of  a  real  or  fancied  light  to  an  enclosed  portion 
of  what  is  claimed  as  common  property  does 
not  thereby  commit  mischief. 

POROLIS  V.  RoMaNIS,  No.  41,953  Police  Court, 
Panadura  163 


(      XXIV      ) 

Penalty 


Pagb 


Is  penalised  contrnd  illegal  ? 

Sec "  Cheque"  11 

Police  Ordinance 

Offence  under  §  lO  nut  U'iahle  by  V.T. 

See  "  Police  Court"  53 

Police  Court 

An  order  of  transfer  to  the  Village  Tribunal  of  a 
charge  which  that  Tribunal  has  no  power  to 
entertain  is,  as  regards  that  charge,  a  final 
order  within  the  meaning  of  §  338  of  the  Cri- 
minal Procedure  Code,  and  is  appealable. 

Where  the  Magistrate  transferred  to  the  Village 
Tribunal  charges  under  §§  343  and  409  of  the 
Penal  Code  and  §  70  of  the  Police  Ordinance. 

Held,  that  the  transfer  was  wrong,  as  the  charge 
under  §  70  is  not  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Village  Tribunal. 

GOONEWARDENE  r.  Silva,  No.  18035,  Police 
Court,  Negombo  53 

Police  Officer,  Statement 

Sec "  Confession"  61 

Possessor,  bona  fide 

See "  Improvements"  86 

Post-dated  Cheque 

See "  Cheque"  11 

Postponement  of  Case 

See "  Jurisdiction"  99 

Prescription 

(\)    See "  Right  op  Way"  28 

(ii)  The  right  to  recover  any  one  payment  of  an 
annuity  accrues  whenever  it  becomes  due,  and 
prescription  begins  to  run  from  the  date  when 
the  first  annuity  becomes  payable. 

Gauder  v.  Dissanayake  (4  Bal.  123)  followed. 
FONSBKA  V.  Fernando,  No.  4827,  District  Court, 
Kalutara  g2 

(iii)  Actiiin  to  reanri-  inonei/  adranccd  ana  mitten  ag- 
reel  I  lent  for  hire  and  service. 

Where  a  sum  of  money  was  advanced  by  A  to  B, 
in  consideration  of  which  B,  entered  into  a 
written  contract  of  hire  and  service  with  A  for 
a  terra  of  years,  and  where  it  was  stipulated 
that  the  sum  of  money  advanced  was  to  be  de- 
ducted from  the  total  amount  of  wages  due,  at 
the  expiration  of  the  terra  of  the  contract. 


(      XXV      ) 

Page 

Held,  that  the  claim  for  the  return  of  the  money- 
advanced  falls  under  §  7  of  Ordinance  32  of 
1871,  and  is  prescribed  in  6  years  from  the 
cause  of  action. 

Jambs  Appu  v.    De  Silva    (7    s.c.c.    129)  and 
Thomassie    v.    Kanavathie  (5  s.c.c.  174) 
differentiated.  » 

Silva  r.  AsOHAMY,No.  19230,  Court  of  Requests, 

Negombo  91 

(iv)  ia«'.s  (if  iirc^criptidn  itnf  appliccible  to  ivads. 

See  "■  Municipal  Council's  Ordinance"  112 

Probate 

See  "  Will"  82 

Projection  over  Street 

See  "  Municipal  Council's  Ordinance,"  112 

Publica  Mercentrix 

See  "  Husband  and  Wife,"  168 

Receiver — Arbitr .  tioa. 

The  claims  in  the  respondent's  plaint  for  the  ap- 
pointment of  a  receiver  and  for  the  grant  of  an 
injunction  deal  with  matters  beyond  the  com- 
petence of  arbitrators,  and  can  only  be  satis- 
factorily disposed  of  by  the  ordinary  tribunals. 

SOYSA  ('.  RanesINGHE,  No.  2154  District   Court, 

Kandy  157 

Registration 

(i)    Sre  "  Vendor  and  Vendee,"  71 

(ii)    A  probate  of  a  will  is   a  registrable   instrument 

under  §  16  of  the  Registration  Ordinance  No.  14 

of  1891,  and  the    provisions    of   the    following 

section  of  the  Ordinance  are  applicable  to  it. 

FONSEKA  V.  Fernando,  No.  4827,  District  Court, 

Kalutara  82 

Rei  Vindicatia  action 

Action  by  parchns.r  at  e.vecntion  sale  pending  nort- 
gage-  (iction  against  pii/rJiascr  under  mortgage 
decree. 

Sec  "  MORTGAGE  (iii)."  88 

Res  judicata 

(1)     5-66  "  EVIDENCE,  (i)"  1 

(ii)  In  an  action  by  a  mortgagor  to  have  a  mortgage 
bond  cancelled  and  discharged,  the  mortgagee 
is  not  bound  to  claim  in  reconvention  the 
money  due  on  the  bond,  and  a  subsequent  ac- 


Page; 


26 


(     xxvi     ) 

tion  on  the  bond  is  not  barred  by  §207  or  §  817 
of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

Perera  v.  PESONAHAMY,  No.  303,  Court  of 
Requests,  Gampola 

Res  inter  alios  acta 

*     See  "  EVIDENCE  (i)"  1 

Right  of  Way 

If  a  person  who  is  entitled  to  a  right  of  way 
finally  and  definitely  agrees  to  accept  a  new 
route  in  lieu  of  the  old  route,  such  permanent 
change  would  bind  him  to  the  extent  of  dis- 
entitling him  to  use  the  old  route  again  except 
by  a  fresh  agreement. 

A  servitude  is  extinguished  by  abandonment  or 
release.  Abandonment  or  release  is  a  question 
of  fact  in  each  case.  The  mere  fact  of  a  new 
line  of  way  being  adopted  in  lieu  of  the  old 
route  is  not  in  itself  proof  of  abandonment  of 
the  servitude  along  the  old  way.  The  length  of 
time  during  which  the  new  route  has  been  used 
instead  of  the  old  one  would  be  a  relevant  fact 
for  consideration  in  connection  with  the  ques- 
tion of  abandonment.  But  if  the  substitution 
was  made  under  such  circumstances  that  the 
inference  of  abandonment  can  be  drawn  the 
question  of  time  will  not  be  of  much  conse- 
quence. 

Where  a  right  of  way  has  been  acquired  by  pres- 
cription and  a  new  route  has  been  substituted 
by  agreement  for  the  old  route,  the  benefit  of 
the  old  possession  would  attach  to  the  new 
route  and  a  prescriptive  right  can  be  exercised 
over  the  new  route. 

Where  both  the  old  way  and  the  substituted  way 
are  obstructed  and  an  action  is  brought  in  res- 
pect of  the  old  way,  and  the  Court  finds  that  the 
right  to  use  the  same  can  no  longer  be  main" 
tained,  the  action  should  not  be  dismissed,  but 
the  plaintiff  should  be  given  an  opportunity  of 
amending  his  pleadings  and  claiming  a  de- 
claration in  respect  of  the  substituted  way. 

Costa  v.  Livbra,  No.  18621,  Court  of  Requests, 
Negombo  28 

Sale  in  execution 

(i)  In  the  absence  of  a  special  direction  by  the  Judge, 
it  is  quite  open  to  the  mortgagee-creditor  to 
exercise  his  own  discretion  as  to  the  order  in 
which  the  lands  shall  be  sold. 


(    xxvii    ) 

Page 

WiCKREMESINGHE    v.  PUNCHI  NONA,    No.   2465 
District  Court,  Matara  43 

(ii)  Suit  by  judgment.  Debtor  to  set  aside  sale  for  ir- 
regularity proiier  procedure  to  move  in  same 
action. 

See  "  CIVIL  PROCEDURE  CODE  (ii)"  55 

Sale  of  goods  154 

Seizure 

(i)    Property  seized  irithout  warrant  or  order  of  Court. 

See  "  DAMAGES  (i)"  94 

(ii)    See  "  FIDEI-COMMISSUM  (ii)"  71 

(iii)  Where  after  the  death  of  the  iudgment-debtor, 
the  judgment-creditor  seized  and  sold  in  exe- 
cution certain  property  belonging  to  the  estate 
of  the  judgment-debtor  without  making  the 
legal  representative  of  the  iudgment-debtor  a 
party  on  the  record  in  terms  of  §  341  of  the 
Code. 
Held,  that  such  seizure  and  sale  were  bad. 
It  is  no  answer  that  the  sale  was  confirmed  by 
the  Court,  in  as  much  as  the  property  was 
never  brought  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court  by  means  of  a  lawful  seizure,  and  the 
order  confirming  the  sale  was  made  under  the 
mistaken  belief  that  the  Court  had  jurisdiction, 
which  it  in  fact  had  not,  to  confirm  the  sale. 
Omer  v.  Fernando,  No.  31771  District  Court, 
Colombo  128 

Servitude 

See  "  RIGHT  OF  WAY"  28 

Stamp  Ordinance 
(i)    §  (>i—See  "  Cheque"  11 

(ii)    The  value  of  an  estate  for  the  purpose  of  ascer- 
taining probate   or   administration   duty  is  its 
value  at  the  death  of  the  deceased,  and   not  at 
the  date  of  filing  of  the  final  accout. 
In  re  Last  Will  of  Dun  2Iatlies  de  Silva,   No.   486, 

District  Court,  Tangalle  41 

Statement  to  a  Police  Olficer 

Sen  "  CONFUSION"  61 

Succession 

See  "  Kandyan  Law"  116 

Trade  Mark 

The  plaintiffs,  in  an  action  for  passing  off,  sold 
their  soap  in  card-board  boxes  of  practically 
the  same  size  shape,  and  construction  as  the 
defendants.  The  plaintiffs'  box  bore  on  the 
lid,  both  outside  and  inside,  a  coloured  label 
with  the  device  of  a  lion  leaping  out  of  a  bam- 


(    xxviii    ) 

boo  jungle  and  the  words  "  Lion  Soap,  George 
Dralle,  Hamburg."  The  defendants'  box  bore 
on  the  lid,  both  outside  and  inside,  a  coloured 
label  consisting  of  a  representation  of  gallop- 
ing race-horses  with  their  jockeys,  together 
with  the  words  "  Finest  Jockey  Club  Soap, 
Gottlieb  Taussig,  Soap  Makers  to  the  Imp.  at 
Eoy  Court,  Vienna."  The  sides  of  the  box 
were  completely  covered  with  labels  represent- 
ing race-horses.  The  defendant's  cakes  of 
soap  were  about  the  same  size  as  the  plaintiffs'. 
They  were  enclosed  in  red  silk  or  satin  wrap- 
pers of  nearly  the  same  shade,  they  were  tied 
with  the  same  gold-coloured  cord,  and  they 
bore  gold-coloured  seals  which  bore  a  general 
resemblance  to  the  seals  set  as  the  plaintiff's 
soap  though  the  impression  on  the  seals  was 
different.  Both  soaps  were  heavily  scented. 
The  defendants'  cake  of  soap  bore  a  conspicu- 
ous label  similar  to  that  on  the  box,  and  the 
plaintiffs'  cake  of  soap  bore  this  label  equally 
conspicuously  on  each  cake  of  the  plaintiffs, 
and  defendants'  soap  there  was  the  device  of 
the  lion  and  of  the  horses  and  jockeys  pasted 
over  the  red  satin  cover. 

Held,  that  the  plaintiffs  were  not  entitled  to  an 
injunction. 

fl'eZc^ /w  ri/ier,  (1)  that  the  silk-wrapping  was  not 
distinctive  of  the  get-up  of  the  plaintiffs'  soap. 

(2)  that  as  this  was  soap  manufactured  out  of 
the  Island,  evidence  of  user  outside  Ceylon  was 
admissible. 

Per  LascELLES  C.J — In  my  opinion  the  plain- 
tifls'  action  fails.  I  arrive  at  this  conclusion 
on  the  broad  ground  that  there  is  no  proof  that 
anyone  was  deceived  into  buying  the  defen- 
dants'soap  for  that  of  the  plaintiffs  and  that 
the  defendants  soap  is  not  calculated  to  deceive 
the  public  in  as  much  as  the  difference  be- 
tween the  two  soaps  is  conspicuous  and  appa- 
rent to  purchasers.  None,  educated  or  unedu- 
cated, who  took  into  his  hand  a  cake  of  the 
"Jockey  Club  Soap"  could  believe  that  that  soap 
was  the  "  Lion  Soap,"  if  he  had  ever  seen  the 
"Lion  Soap." 

Per  Wood-Eenton  J.— Proof  of  instances  of  ac- 
tual deception  is,  of  course,  not  necessary  in 
cases  of  this  kind  any  more  than  proof  of  fraud; 
but  where  the  alleged  passing  off  consists  in  the 
adoption  by  one  trader  of  an  ordinary  device, 
proof  that  it  has  actually  been  found  to  be  de- 
ceptive is  of  considerable  value, 


Page 


(    xxix    ) 


Page 


DRALLE  v.  EbRAMJBE,  No,  34175  District  Court, 
Colombo  137 

Use  and  Occupation 

See  "  LEASE"  121 

See  "  COOWNER" 
Vendor  and  Vendee 

If  the  5th  defendant,  when  he  purchased,  failed 
to  search  the  register  or  bought  the  share  not- 
withstanding the  registration,  he  accepted  a 
serious  risk  ;  but  I  fail  to  see  that  he  is  in  the 
same  position  as  a  vendor  who  when  he  has  no 
title  to  give,  and  subsequently  when  he  has  ob- 
tained title,  repudiates  the  sale  and  sets  up  his 
newly  acquired  title  against  the  purchaser. 

The  only  remedy  of  the  party  defrauded  is  to  sue 
for  damages  against  the  vendor. 

See  "  FIDEI-COMMISSUM  (ii)" 

MOHAMEDBHOY  r.  LEBBE  MARIKAR,  No,  34875 
District  Court,  Colombo  -  79 

Vexatious  Charge 

See  "  Criminal  Procedure  Code  (i)"  41 

Village  Tribunal 

An  order  of  transfer  to  the  Village  Tribunal  of  a 
charge  which  that  Tribunal  has  no  power  to 
entertain  is,  as  regards  that  charge,  a  final 
urder  within  the  meaning  of  §338,  Criminal 
Procedure  Code,  and  is  appealable. 

Where  the  Magistrate  transferred  to  the  Village 
Tribunal  charges  under  §§  343  and  409  of  the 
Penal  Code  and  §  70  of  the  Police  Ordinance. 

Held,  that  the  transfer  was  wrong,  as  the  charge 
onder  §  70  is  not  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Village  Tribunal. 

GOONEWARDENE  i\   SiLVA,    No.    18035    Police 

Court  Negombo.  53 

Will,  Last 

(i)  The  plaintiff,  who  was  an  annuitant  under  the 
will  of  the  testator,  and  who  was  in  a  former 
action  declared  entitled  to  a  tacit  hypothec 
over  the  residuary  estate  of  the  testator,  sued 
the  defendant  for  a  declaration  that  a  land  pur- 
chased by  the  latter  from  the  residuary  legatee 
was  subject  to  the  plaintiff's  hypothec.  Neither 
the  probate  of  the  will  creating  the  annuity 
nor  the  tacit  hypothec  was  registered,  but  the 
defendant's  conveyance  was  registered. 
Held,  that  the  defendant's  interest  under  his  deed 
is  adverse  to  that  of  the  plaintiff  under  the  will 
and  that  the  tacit  hypothec  created  by  the 
will  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff  is  void  by  reason 


(      XXX      ) 


Writ 


Page 


of  the  registration  of  the  defendant's  convey- 
ance. 

A  probate  of  a  will  is  a  registrable  instrument — 
under  §  16  of  the  Registration  Ordinance  No. 
14  of  1891,  and  the  previous  of  the  following 
Section  of  the  Ordinanee  are  applicable  to  it. 

Per  Lascelles,  C.J. —The  will  is  void  only 
quoad  the  adverse  interest  claimed  by  the  de- 
fendant, that  is,  the  right  to  hold  the  land  free 
of  the  tacit  hypothec  created  by  the  will. 

Per  WOOD-Renton,  J.— The  right  to  recover 
anyone  payment  of  an  annuity  accrues  when- 
ever it  becomes  due  and  prescription  begins  to 
run  from  the  date  when  the  first  annuity  be- 
comes payable. 

Gauder  v.  Dissanayake  (4  Bal  122)  followed. 

FonSEKA  v.  Fernando,  No.  4127,  District  Court, 

Kalutara  82 

See "  Seizure"  128 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES 


OF     CEYLON: 


BEING 


Reports  of  Cases  decided  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  Ceylon  in  its  Original- 

and  Apnellate  Jurisdiction,  and  sitting  as  a  Colonial  Court  of 

Admiralty  and  by  His  Majesty's  Privy  Council 

an  Appeal' from  Ceylon. 

EDITED    BY 
A.    St.    V.    JAYEWARDENE, 

_  Barrister-at-Law. 

L.    H.    De    ALWIS, 

JAMES    JOSEPH, 

E.    G.    P.    JAYETILEKE, 

Advacatet  of  the 

SUPREME    COURT. 

{ 

Vol.  III.     Part  XII. 

INDEX. 


PRINTERS: 
THE    CEYLONESE  UNION   Co.,  l-td. 
COLOMBpr 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES 

OF     CEYLON: 

BEING 

Reports  of  Cases  decided  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  Ceylon  in  its  Original 

and  Appellate  Jurisdiction,  and  sitting  as  a  Colonial  Court  of 

Admiralty  and  by  His  Majesty's  Privy  Council 

on  Appeal  from  Ceylon. 

EDITED    BY 
A.     St.    V.    JAYEWARDENE, 

Barrister-at-Law. 

L      H.     De     ALWIS, 

JAMES    JOSEPH, 

E.    G.    P.    JAYETiLEKE, 

Advocates  of  the 

SUPREME    COURT. 


PART  III. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES 

OF  CEYLON: 

BEING 

Reports  of  Cases  Decided  by  the  Supreme  court  of  Ceylon  in 

ITS  original  and  appellate  jurisdiction  and  sitting  as  a 

Colonial  Court  of  Admiralty  and  by  His  Majesty's 

Privy  Council  on  Appeal  from  Ceylon. 

:o: 

PERERA  V.  Db  SILVA. 
No.   4^08    D.    C.    Chilaw 
Present:  Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J.  &  Ennis  J. 

16th    June,    1913. 

Fidei    Comndssiini — Jus  Acarescendl — Ordinance    Xo.    21    of  1S44, 
Sectivn  20. 

Simon  Moraes  and  his  wife  Justina  Perera  executed  a  last 
will  dated  7th  July,  1894,  which  contained  the  following  clause: — 
"We  do  hereby  give  and  bequeath  to  Lucia  Perera  (1st  defendant,) 
Ana  Perera  (2nd  defendant)  and  Maria  Perera  of  Colombo  (sisters 
of  the  testatrix)  one  just  half  of  our  property  whatsoever  belong- 
ing to  us  and  the  other  one  half  to  Philippa  Moraes  and  Helena 
Moraes  (sisters  of  the  testator)  who  shall  after  our  death  hold 
and  possess  the  same  without  mortgaging,  selling,  granting  or 
otherwise  alienating  the  same  or  any  part  thereof  but  shall  only 
enjoy  the  rents  and  profits  thereof  and  after  their  deaths  the  said 
share  shall  devolve  on  their  lawful  issue  without  any  restriction 
whatsoever." 

Maria  Perera  died  without  issue  leaving  a  last  will  by  which  she 
appointed  her  husband  (3rd  defendant)  her  executor. 

It  was  common  ground  that  the  will  of  Simon  Perera  created  a 
Fidei- Cniniiiissuiii-a.nd  the  question  was  whether  upon  the  death  of 
Maria  Perera  without  issue  her  share  passed  to  her  executor  or  under 
the  Jus  accresceridi  devolved  on  her  co-devisees. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Held,  that,  as  the  intention  of  the  testators  was  not  to  preserve  the 
property  intact  but  to  divide  it  equally  between  the  two  groups, 
the  sisters  of  the  husband  and  the  sisters  of  the  wife  surviving  at  the 
death  of  the  testator,  on  the  death  of  Maria  without  issue  her  share 
in  the  property  was  freed  from  the  Fidei-Commissum,  and  the 
Jus  accrescendi  did  not  apply. 

Per  Wood  Benton  A.  C.  J.  I  think  the  language  of  the  will  itself 
excludes  the  Jus  accrescendi.  But,  apart  from  that,  there  would  be  a 
serious  question  whether  Section  20  of  Ordinance  21  of  1844  which  does 
not  seem  to  have  been  considered  by  the  Privy  Council  in  Tillelteratne 
a.  Aheyeseltera^  does  not  abolish  that  right  as  regards  every  will  made 
after  its  enactment  the  dispositions  of  which  do  not  expressly  or,  at 
least,  by  necessary  implication  recognise  it. 

Tillelieratne  r.  Abeyesekera^  commented  on. 

This  is  an  appeal  from  the  following  judgment  of  the 
District  Judge  of  Chilaw  (T.  R.  E.  Loftus,  Esq.) 

This  is  an  action  under  the  provisions  of  the  Partition  Ordinance 
for  the  sale  of  an  allotment  of  land  with  the  buildings  standing  there- 
on. 

There  is  a  residental  bungalow  on  the  land  which  is  now  fast  fall- 
ing into  ruins  owing  to  the  unwillingness  of  the  shareholders  to  con- 
tribute towards  its  repairs,  hence  the  present  application. 

The  land  and  the  buildings  thereon  belonged  to  Simon  Moraes 
and  his  wife,  Justina. 

They  executed  a  joint  last  will— vide  PS  which  is  a  copy.  By 
it  they  conveyed  one  half  of  all  their  estates  to  Phillipa  and  Helena— 
the  sisters  of  Simon  Moraes ;  and  the  other  half  to  Lucia,  Ana  and 
Maria — the  sisters  of  Justina. 

Phillipa  died.  Her  five  children  sold  and  conveyed  Yi  of  the 
entire  premises  to  plaintiff. 


Commissuni 


All  parties  are  agreed  that  the  will   creates   a   Fidei 
in  regard  to  this  property. 

6th  Defendant  relying  on  a  decision  reported  in  6,  Lender  Law 
lieporU  Part  VI.  Paye  5S  contends  that  an  action  under  the  provisions 
of  the  Partition  Ordinance  is  not  maintainable,  Luoia,Ana  and  Helena 
bemg  yet  alive.  I  do  not  think  that  the  decision  in  question  goes 
quite  so  far  as  that. 

Phillipa  is  dead.  Under  the  terms  of  the  will  her  children  take 
her  share  as  a  free  inheritance.  They  are  entitled  to  avail  themselves 
of  the  provisions  of  the  Partition  Ordinance. 

The  dispute  in  the  case  is  between  1st  defendant  and  3rd  Defen- 
dant 1st  defendant  contends  that  the  moiety  conveyed  to  Justina's 
i  Bisters  was  burdened  with  one  single  Fidei-commissum  and  that  Ma 
having  died  without  issue  her  share  derolred  on  Ana  and  herself. 


ria 


1.     2  y.  L.  R.  313. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

The  3rd  defendant  (Maria's  husband)  claims  1/6  share  of  the  pre- 
mises by  his  wife's  last  will. 

He  contends  that  the  moiety  is  burdened  with  3  F'ulei  Commissa, 
and  that  Maria  having  died  leaving  no  issue  the  FiJfi.  Oommissum  in 
respect  of  her  share  lapsed  and  that  she  was  consequently  entitled  to 
deal  with  the  share  by  last  will. 

I  have  carefully  considered  the  arguments  of  Counsel  and  the 
authorities  cited.  I  am  strongly  of  opinion  that  the  present  case  is 
distinguishable  from  Tilleliei-afne  i\  Ahei/esehera  reported  in  2  X.  L.  R. 
page  313  though  1st  defendant  claims  that  the  language  used  by  the 
testators  in  the  present  case  is  almost  identical  with  that  used  in 
Tillelicratne  t.  Abeyeseltera. 

It  seems  to  me  that  in  all  cases  like  the  present  it  is  of  paramont 
importance  to  ascertain  the  intention  of  the  testators. 

In  the  cases  relied  upon  by  the  1st  defendant  it  is  more  than 
abundantly  clear  that  the  intention  of  the  testator  was  to  preserve 
the  property  burdened  with  the  Fidel- Commii'sum  in  the  family  for  as 
long  a  period  as  possible. 

In  the  present  case  the  testators  clearly  intended  that  the  law- 
ful issue  of  the  institutes  should  take  the  property  as  "  a  free  inheri- 
tance." 

The  will  contains  no  words  which  indicates  that  the  testators 
wished  that  event  deferred,  or  that  the  surviving  institutes  should  take 
by  substitution. 

It  is  significant  that  of  the  5  institutes  only  one  claims  this  right 
of  "  accretion." 

If  1st  Defendant's  contention  is  sound,  then  Plaintiff  himself 
has  no  title,  for  Helena  would  be  entitled  to  the  possession  of  a  moiety 
of  the  premises.  But  1st  defendant  says  that  it  is  not  her  business  to 
oppose  Plaintiff's  application  on  that  ground. 

Let  decree  be  entered  ordering  a  sale  of  the  premises  allotting 
s  hares  as  follows  : — 

Plaintiff i 

1st  Defendant J^ 

3rd  Defendant i 

4th  Defendant i 

Ana's  k  share  of  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  will  be  deposited  and 
6th  Defendant  will  be  allowed  the  interest  on  it.  If  Ana  dies  leaving 
Elaris  as  her  only  lawful  issue,  then  6tb  Defendant  can  draw  the  sum 
so  deposited. 

The  3rd  defendant  will  get  the  costs  of  contention.  Other  costs 
will  he  pro  rata. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES, 

Perera  Jvseiih  Grenier  K.  C.  (with  H.  A.  Jayewardene  and 

de  silva.  De  Zoijsa)  for  the  1st  defendant  appellant.— It  is  clear  from 
the  will  that  the  testators  created  a  fidei-commissum 
as  to  each  moiety  of  the  property;  one  moiety  being 
given  to  Lucia,  Ana  and  Maria  and  the  other  to  Philippa  and 
Helena.  The  moiety  given  to  Lucia,  Ana  and  Maria  was 
thus  constituted  a  joint  and  single  fidei-commissum. 
Therefore,  on  Maria's  death  issueless,  her  share  did  not  pass, 
under  her  will  but  the  whole  moiety  still  remained  to  the 
remaining  sisters  and  their  issue  See  Tlllekeratne  v. 
AheyeseJcere;  Vansanden  v.  Mack;^  Jayeiva  rdene  v. 
Jayewardene? 

The  argument  in  the  lower  Court  on  behalf  of  the  3rd 
defendant  is  not  in  point.  Jus  accrescencli  has  a  bearing 
only  in  cases  where,  for  instance,  one  of  two  joint  legatees 
dies  before  the  testator  or  (in  the  case  of  a  fidei-commissum) 
where  one  Fidei-Commissary  dies  before  the  event  happens 
on  which  the  property  is  to  go  over.  This  has  nothing  to  do 
with  the  present  question  as  was  explained  in  Tlllekeratne 
V.  Silra^  Even  if  the  argument  in  question  is  valid.  Counsel 
for  the  3rd  defendant  admitted  that  if  the  parties  wei'e  joined 
verbis  ct  re  the  contention  on  behalf  of  the  1st  defendant 
would  be  right.  It  is  clear  that  they  were,  in  fact,  joined 
verbis  as  well  as  I'e,  for  the  three  sisters  were  mentioned 
in  the  group  or  class,  and  one  moiety  was  given  to  them 
together. 

H.  J.  C.  Petri ra {with  F.  H.  B.  Koch  and  Canekeratne) 
for  the  3rd  defendant-respondent. — The  language  of  the  will 
clearly  shows  that  the  intention  of  the  testators  was  to  create 
3  separate  fidei-commissa  in  respect  of  the  half -share  given 
to  Lucia,  Ana  and  Maria.  If  it  were  otherwise,  it  would 
inevitably  follow  that  the  last  survivor  of  the  three 
institutes   and   her   children  would  become   entitled  to  the 


1.  2  N.  L.  R.  313.         3.     8  N.  L.  B.  283. 

2.  1  N.  L.  R.  311.         4.     10  N.  L.  R.  214 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES. 
whole  half -share  to  the  exclusion  of  the  children  of  the  other     Perera 

V. 

two  institutes.  This  could  not  have  been  intended  as  the  de  Silva 
will  says  that  the  property  is  to  devolve  on  the  lawful  issue  En„is  j 
of  the  institutes  "without  any  restriction  whatever." 

The  law  of  Jus  accrescendi  does  not  apply  in  Ceylon 
now.  It  has  been  abolished  by  §  20  of  Ordinance  21  of  1(S44. 
This  section  has  not  been  considered  in  the  case  of 
TilJi'h'r(it)ie  V.  Aheyesekcra}  §7  of  ordinance  No.  21  of  1844 
on  which  the  judgment  proceeds  had  been  repealed  long  pre- 
vious to  that  case.  There  was  no  appearance  on  behalf  of 
the  respondent  in  the  above  case  at  the  hearing  before  the 
Privy  Council.  At  any  rate  the  law  of  Jus  accrescendi  does 
not  apply  to  ^(^t<c/ar//.  Once  the  fiducinrii  enter  on  the 
inheritance,  a  separation  of  interests  takes  place,  and  the 
Jus  accrescendi  becomes  excluded  (See  J/(^/-/ce's  English  (Did 
Ruman-Dutch  Law  p.  304).  If  there  is  no  Jns  accrescendi. 
then  the  simple  rule  of  fidei-commission  applies  and  m.y 
client  becomes  the  absolute  owner, 

Joseph  Grenier  K.  C.  in  reply. — On  the  death  of 
Maria  if  her  executor  were  to  be  entitled  to  her  share, 
the  intention  of  the  testator  would  be  defeated.  The  will 
shows  that  the  intention  was  to  impose  a  single  fldei- 
cominissum.  \_Wood-Renton  A.  C.  J.  What  would  be  the 
position,  if  Maria  left  issue  ?]  Then  their  interests  would 
have  been  deferred  till  the  death  of  the  other  two  devisees. 
[Entiis  J.  On  the  death  of  the  other  two,  how  should  the 
children  of  the  three  institutes  share  the  property?]  They 
will  share  the  property  equally. 

c.  a.  V. 

Ennis  J.  This  was  a  partition  action  regarding  the  estate 
formerly  belonging  to  Simon  Mories  and  his  wife  and  be- 
queathed by  them  in  a  joint  will,  one  half  to  Lucia,  Ana 
and  Maria  Perera  and  one  half  to  Phillippa  and  Helena 
Morais.  After  their  death  "the  said  shares"  were  to  devolve 
"on  their  lawful  issue  without  any  restriction  whatever." 


2  N.  L.  R.  313. 


;  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Perera  Maria  Perera  died  without  issue  and  the  District  Court 

de  Si'lva.    has  allowed  i  share  of  the  estate  to  her  husband  Louis  de 
-    •     ,     Silva. 

Ennis  J. 

The  appeal  has  been  presented  by  Lucia  Perera  on  the 
ground  that  the  interests  of  Maria  Perera  accrued  to  herself 
and  Ana  Perera  on  the  death  of  Maria  Perera. 

The  evidence  shows  that  the  intention  of  the  will  was 
to  divide  the  property  equally  between  the  sisters  of  the 
husband  on  the  one  part  and  the  sisters  of  his  wife  on  the 
other,  and  the  District  Judge  has  found  that  it  was  the  in- 
tention of  the  testators  that  the  lawful  issue  of  the  institutes 
should  take  the  property  as  a  "free  inheritance." 

It  has  been  argued  for  the  appellant  that  as  the  form  of 
disposition  was  not  3  of  a  half  to  the  3  institutes  jointly 
there  was  a  right  of  survivorship. 

The  case  of  Tillekeratne  v.  Aheysekera^  was  the  prin- 
cipal case  relied  upon  in  support  of  the  argument.  That 
case  however  does  not  appear  to  me  to  establish  more  than 
the  principle  that  there  is  a  right  of  accrual  in  a  case  where 
one  of  the  institutes  dies  before  the  testator  i.  e.  before  the 
estate  has  vested  in  the  institutes.  In  this  case  the  3 
institutes  entered  into  possession  of  the  ^  share  left  to  them 
and  it  has  to  be  considered  whether  the  rule  of  Jus  accres- 
cendi  still  applied. 

Section  20  of  Ordinance  21  of  1844  was  held  in 
Vansandan  v.  Mack^  to  be  suspended  where  the  intention 
of  the  testator  was  to  preserve  the  estate  intact  in  the 
family. 

In  the  present  case  the  District  Judge  has  found  that 
this  was  not  the  intention  of  the  testators  but  that  it  was 
their  intention  that  the  issue  of  the  institutes  should  take 
the  property  as  a  "free  inheritance." 


1.     1  N.  L.  B.  311.         2.     2  N.  L.  B.  313 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  7 

In  the  words  of  the  Avill  the  property  -was  to  devolve  on     Perera 

the  lawful  issue  of  the  institutes  "without  any  restriction    de  Silva 

whatever."     If  the  rule  of  Jus  accrescendi  were  to  apply,  to  -^^^j  r^^. 

preserve  the  property  intact,  the  property  would   devolve       ton, 

A.  C.  J. 
only  on  the  children  of  the  last  surviving  institute.     This 

would  be  a  restriction  on  the  devolution  of  the  property  to 
the  issue  of  the  institutes  who  died  first.  I  am  therefore  of 
opinion  that  the  finding  of  the  learned  District  Judge  as  to 
the  intention  of  the  testators  was  right ;  that  the  intention  of 
the  testators  was  not  to  preserve  the  property  intact,  but  to 
divide  the  property  equally  between  the  2  groups,  the  sisters 
of  the  husband  and  the  sisters  of  the  wife  surviving  at  the 
death  of  the  testators ;  and,  that  on  the  death  of  Maria  with- 
out issue  her  share  in  the  property  was  freed  from  the 
fidei-commiss  urn. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J. — I  agree.  The  testator  and 
testatrix  clearly  intended  that  the  lawful  issue  of  each  ins- 
titute, as  well  as  the  institutes  themselves,  should  be  bene- 
fited by  the  will.  Neither  expressly,  as  in  TiUckeratne  v. 
Aheysekcra}  ,  nor  by  necessary  implication,  (Vaimandan  v. 
Mack^ ),  does  the  will  indicate  that,  on  the  death  of  one 
institute,  the  survivors  are  to  take  by  substitution.  The 
construction  placed  by  the  learned  District  Judge  upon  the 
will  is  therefore  justified  both  by  the  intention  of  the 
testator  and  testatrix  and  by  the  language  which  they  have 
used.  It  is  also  a  construction  the  practical  application  of 
which  presents  no  difficulty.  The  interpretation,  on  the 
other  hand,  which  the  appellant  asks  us  to  adopt  compels  us 
either  to  read  the  will  as  if  it  took  account  only  of  the  law- 
ful issue  of  the  last  surviving  institute,  or  to  add  to  it  a 
clause  which  would  do  equal  violence  to  its  language, 
provided  that,  on  the  death  of  the  last  surviving  institute,  the 
lawful  issue,  then   surviving,    of  all   three  institutes  should 


1.     2  N.  L.  B.  SIS.         2.     1  N.  L.  B.  311. 


8  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Perera     succeed.     The  appellants  counsel  seemed  to  favour  this  latter 

de  Silva    alternative.     But  the   will    throws    no  light  on  the    question 

Wood  Ren-  "^^^ther,   if   it  were  adopted,    the  succession  would   be   by 

ton,        representation  or  7;p;' rr/^;/;'^/.     To  construe  the  will  in  either 

■    ■   ■     of  the  senses  which  the  appellant's  position  involves   Avould 

be  to  make  a  new  will  for  the  parties  rather  than  to  interpret 

their  existing  one. 

I  think  that  the  language  of  the  will  itself  excludes  the 
Jus  arcreacendi.  But  apart  from  that,  there  would  be  a 
serious  question  whether  §  20  of  Ordinance  No.  21  of  1844, 
which  does  not  seem  to  have  been  considered  by  the  Privy 
Council  in  TUIekeratiw  v.  Aheyesekera}  does  not  abolish 
that  right  as  regards  every  will,  made  after  its  enactment, 
the  dispositions  of  which  do  not  expressly  or  at  least  by 
necessary  implication  recognise  it. 

The  appeal  must  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor    for    appellant — T.  M.  Fernando. 

Proctor  for  respondent — O.  V.  J/.  Pa)iditliasekera. 


-:o: 


TENNEKOON  v.  PERIS 

No.  2072,  D.  C.  Ratnapura. 

Present:  Pereira  &  de  Sampayo  J.  J. 

5th  June,  1913. 

Co-owiien~on£  co-owner  gemmiii//  on  the  w/ialr  laml— action  hy  person 
elainiinf/ to  he.  co-owner  for  ilcclaration  of  title  anil  injnnction— whether 
injii notion  slionld  he  allowed  ],cnirmij  trial  of  action. 

The  plaintiffs  asserting  title  to  a  half  share  of  a  field  complained 
that  the  1st  defendant  who  claimed  title  under  the  other  defendants 
who  were  entitled  to  the  other  half  share  of  the  land,  were  carrying 
on  gemming  operations  on  the  land  and  appropriating  the  gems  found 
therein  and  prayed  for  a  declaration  of  title,  possession,  damages  and 
an  injunction. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  9 

Held,   considering    the  rights    of    co-owners  as  explained  in   Sllna  Tennekoon 
Ai)puhamy  v.  Adi-iai  and  also  the  difficulty  in  establishing  the  quantity        ^-  . 
and  value  of  the  gems  that  may  be  found  and  removed,   the  plaintiffs 
were  entitled  to  an  injunction  pending  the  final  determination  of  the  <Je  Sampayo 
rights  of  the  parties.  •'• 

This  is  an  appeal  from  an  order  of  the  District  Judge 
of  Ratnapura  {Allan  Bevcn  Esa :),  dissolving  an  injunction. 
The  facts  appear  in  the  judgment  of  de  Sampayo  J. 

E.  G.  P.  Jaijetilekf  for  the  plaintiffs-appellants. — There  is 
sufficient  evidence  on  record  to  show  that  the  appellants  are 
co-owners  of  the  field  in  question.  According  to  our  law  one 
co-owner  of  a  piece  of  ground  having  gems  or  minerals 
under  it  has  no  right  to  excavate  and  carry  away  what  is 
found  otherwise  than  with  the  consent  of  the  other 
co-owners  (see  (SV/('«  Appuhamij  v.  Adria}  ).  The  property  in 
question  has  hitherto  been  treated  as  a  field  and  not  as  a 
gemming  land  and  therefore  it  cannot  be  contended  that  the 
principle  laid  down  in  Siyadoris  v.  Hendrick^  and  tSilva  v. 
Silva^  would  apply.  The  defendants  are  clearly  acting  in 
excess  of  their  co-proprietory  rights  and  should  be  restrained 
by  injunction  pending  the  final  determination  of  this  action. 

H.  A.  Jayewa)xJene  for  the  1st  defendant-respondent. 

c.  a.  V. 

de  Sampayo  J. 

The  plaintiffs  asserted  title  to  an  undivided  half  share 
of  a  certain  field  by  right  of  purchase  and  complained  that 
the  1st  defendant,  claiming  title  under  the  other  defendants, 
who,  according  to  the  plaintiffs,  are  co-owners  with  them, 
was  disputing  the  plaintiffs  rights  and  was  carrying  on  gem- 
ming operations  on  the  land  and  appropriating  the  gems 
found  therein,  and  they  prayed  for  declaration  of  title  and 
possession   and   damages   and   for  an   injunction.     On   the 


1.  2   S.    C.    G.   166. 

2.  6    N.    L.   E.    125. 

3.  6  N.   L.   B.   275. 


10  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Tennekoon  application  of  the   plaintiffs,   the  court   issued   an   interim 

Pe^is       injunction.     Subsequently  the   1st   defendant   moved   upon 

,    ^  petition  and  affidavit  that  the  injunction  be  dissolved.     The 

de  Sampayo  "^  ,         t        n    •  j.i.       •     • 

J.  present  appeal  is  taken  from  an  order  dissolvmg  the  injun- 
ction. The  plaintiffs  brought  this  action  Avithin  four  days 
of  their  purchase  of  the  share  of  land,  while  the  1st  defen- 
dant has  been  gemming  under  some  of  the  other  defendants 
ever  since  July  1911.  The  District  Judge  was  of  opinion 
that  the  inducement  for  the  plaintiffs  to  buy  this  share  and 
to  come  into  court  was  the  recent  discovery  by  the  1st 
defendant  of  a  good  deposit  of  gems  in  the  land,  and  that  they 
could  not  be  allowed  to  stop  operations  which  their  vendors 
had  acquiesced  in  for  eighteen  months.  But  considering  the 
rights  of  co-owners,  as  explained  in  Silua  Appnliamy  v. 
Adria^ ,  and  also  the  difficulty  in  establishing  the  quantity 
and  value  of  the  gems  that  may  be  found  and  removed,  I 
think  it  is  proper  to  stop  further  operations  until  the  final 
determination  of  the  rights  of  the  parties. 

The  order  appealed  from  is  set   aside   and   the   interim 
injunction  is  ordered  to  be  issued. 

The  1st  defendant  will  pay  the  costs  of  the  plaintiffs   in 
both  courts. 

Pereira  J. — I  agree 

Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellants — D.  E.  JayetiUekc. 

Proctor  for  1st  defendant-respondent — N.  E.  Dharwarattic. 

1.     3  S.  G.  C.  166. 


:o:- 


COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES.  11 

MOHAMMADO    r.   RAWTHER 
No.  29763,  C.  R.  Colombo. 
Present:  Pereira  J. 
2nd  June,  1913. 

Promusory  note — j'ositUin  uf  signature— marlt  on  the  .itump  qfixed  to  the 
top  right  hand  corner  of  the  note — cancellation  of  stamp. 

When  a  promissory  note  was  signed  with  what  purported  to  be  a 
mark  made  by  the  defendant  on  a  stamp  affixed  at  the  top  right  hand 
corner  of  the  note  with  the  defendant's  name  in  full  written  across 
the  stamp, 

Held,  the  note  was  not  duly  signed  by  the  defendant. 

SemUe,  Looked  at  in  the  light  of  the  stamp  Ordinance  (Sect  11)  which 
applies  to  the  case  it  would  appear  that  the  signature  was  intended 
for  the  cancellation  of  the  stamp  and  nothing  more. 

SemMe,  Had  the  stamp  been  at  the  foot  of  the  document  the  single  act 
of  signing  across  it  may  be  tantamount  to  the  execution  of  the  docu- 
ment and  the  cancellation  of  the  stamp. 

H.  A.  Jayaivardene{W\ih.  F.  H.  B.  Koch,)  tor  the  appel- 
lant.— The  mark  on  the  stamp  affixed  to  the  right  hand 
corner  of  the  stamp  is  not  a  sufficient  signature.  (Jlaythin  v. 
Davith  Sinno}  )  Section  11  of  the  stamp  Ordinance  requires 
the  stamp  to  be  cancelled  before  the  note  is  signed.  Here 
the  mark  on  the  stamp,  if  it  was  actually  made,  amounts  only 
to  a  cancellation,  and  the  mere  cancellation  of  the  stamp  is 
not  sufficient.  There  must  be  a  separate  signature  also  after 
the  cancellation.  A  drawer's  signature  is  essential  for  the 
validity  of  a  bill  (Byles  on  Bilh,p.  110.)  Gaton  v.  Caton  ^,  on 
which  the  Commissioner  relies,  is  in  my  favour.  In  that 
case  it  was  held  that  the  signature  should  be  so  introduced 
as  to  govern  or  authenticate  every  material  and  operative 
part  of  the  instrument.  Here  the  mark  on  the  stamp  does 
not  govern  the  whole  instrument. 

I':jj3«  L'njS'vj  cvrTi'ii  v-'^i^^j  v  Jjsj 

Counsel  also  argued  the  case  on  the  facts. 


{1907)  4  Bed  141. 

(1867)  L.  R.  2  Eng.  and  Ir.  Cases.    127. 


12  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Moham-  A.St.  V.  Jayeivardene,  for  the  respondent. — It  is  true 

V.  that  the  signature  of  the  maker  is  usually  subscribed  on  the 
Rawther  ^.jgj^j.  j^^^^^  corner  but  it  is  sufficient  if  written  in  any  other 
Pereira  J.  part.  ( Byles  on  BilU,  p.  110.)  Where  the  maker  of  a  pro- 
missary  note  wrote  it  in  his  own  hand  it  was  held  sufficient 
if  his  name  occurred  in  any  part  of  it  as  "I,  A.  B,  promise 
to  pay  etc."  (Taylor  v.  Dohhins.^  )  [Pereira  J.  But  according 
to  the  stamp  Ordinance  the  cancellation  must  be  before  the 
signature.]  §  11  of  the  Ordinance  was  never  given  a  construc- 
tion like  this  and  Avas  never  rigidly  observed.  Maythin  v. 
Davith  Sinnu  ~  has  been  explained  away  in  Domhigu 
Aiipnhamy  v.  Epetagedera  Vidane.  ' 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira  J.  The  1st  question  in  this  case  is  whether  the 
promissory  note  su^ed  upon  has  been  duly  executed  by  the 
defendant.  The  note  has  not  been  signed  at  the  foot  of  it, 
but  there  is  what  pu.rports  to  be  a  mark  made  by  the  defen- 
dant on  a  stamp  affixed  at  the  top  right  hand  corner  of  the 
note  with  the  defendant's  name  in  full  written  across  the 
stamp.  Now,  if  the  decision  in  the  case  of  Maythin  v. 
Davith  Sinr/ho^  is  to  be  followed,  clearly  the  note  has  not  been 
duly  signed.  The  Bills  of  Exchange  Act  1882  does  not  re- 
quire a  promissory  note  to  he  signed  at  any  particular  place 
on  the  paper  on  which  it  is  written.  All  that  it  requires 
is  that  the  note  should  be  signed  by  the  maker.  In  the 
same  way  the  Statute  of  Frauds  which  requires  cer- 
tain documents  to  be  signed  by  the  party  executing  them 
does  not  enact  that  the  signature  should  be  placed  on  any 
particular  part  of  the  document ;  but  it  was  held  in  Cat07i  v. 
Catun  *  that  the  signature  should  be  so  placed  as  to  govern  or 
authenticate  every  material  and  operative  part  of  the  instru- 
ment. The  signature  on  the  promissory  note  sued  upon  can 
hardly  be  said  to  be  so  placed.     The  signature  does  not  appear 


1.     (1730)  1  Stmnyr  S99.         S.     (1907)  4  Bat.  141. 
3.  (1899)  1  Tamh.  7.     4  (1807)  L.K.  Eny.  ,{:  Ir.  Ap.  Gas.  127. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  13 

to  have  reference  to  any  part  of  the  writing  on  the  paper.    It    Moham- 

madu 
occurs  at  an  unusual  place,  and  there  is  no  indication  by  means         v. 

of  a  connection  with  brackets  enclosing  the  writing  or  some  ^^ 
such  device  that  it  is  intended  to  govern  the  writing.  On  the  Pereira  J. 
other  hand  looked  at  in  the  light  of  the  stamp  Ordinance  of 
1890  which  applies  to  the  case,  it  would  appear  that  the 
signature  was  intended  for  the  cancellation  of  the  stamp  and 
nothing  more.  Under  the  stamp  Ordinance  [Section  11]  it 
is  the  duty  of  every  person  signing  as  party  any  instrument 
required  by  the  Ordinance  to  be  stamped  to  see  that  the 
stamp  affixed  thereon  is  distinctly  cancelled  before  he  signs 
the  instrument.  Of  course,  cancellation  of  the  stamp  after  the 
instrument  is  signed  by  the  party  executing  it  does  not  ren- 
der the  cancellation  any  the  less  effectual  [See  Section  8]; 
but  the  duty  is  cast  upon  the  party  signing  an  instrument  to 
see  that  the  stamp  is  cancelled  before  he  signs  the  document. 
That  being  so,  the  mark  on  the  stamp  in  this  case  may  well 
be  deemed  to  be  the  preliminary  act  of  cancelling  the  stamp. 
Had  the  stamp  been  at  the  foot  of  the  document  the  single 
act  of  signing  across  it  may  be  tantamount  to  the  execution 
of  the  document  and  the  cancellation  of  the  stamp.  But  that 
can  hardly  be  said  to  be  the  effect  of  the  cancellation  of  the 
stamp  in  the  present  case. 

I  am,  moreover,  not  inclined  to  think  that  the  plaintiff 
has  proved  that  the  defendant  placed  the  mark  on  the  stamp. 
The  witness  Sinnatamby  does  not  support  the  plaintiff  and 
the  note  has  not  been  identified  by  the  witness  Abdula.  On 
the  whole,  the  balance  of  testimony  appears  to  be  on  the  side 
of  the  defendant.  I  set  aside  the  judgment,  and  dismiss  the 
plaintiflE's  claim  with  costs. 


Set  aside. 


Proctor  for  appellant —  Pn'ns  and  Swan. 
Proctor  for  respondent — J.  P.  Bodric/o. 


14  COUET  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

SILVA    V.   SILVA. 
No.   6194  C.   R.  Kalutara. 
Present;   Lascelles   C.   J. 

6th   March   1913. 

Pi-esciy^Ho/i — deed  of  -tale  hy    loije   without  husband's  authority,   when  set 
aside — action  for  refund  of  consideration — when  accrues. 

Where  money  has  been  paid  as  consideration  for  an  invalid  deed 
of  sale  under  which  the  purchaser  has  obtained  possession  and  where 
steps  are  taken  to  have  the  deed  set  aside  and  the  purchaser  ejected, 
the  purchaser  is  entitled  to  claim  the  re-payment  of  the  purchase 
money  and  prescription  will  begin  to  run  against  him  from  the  time 
when  such  steps  are  taken  and  not  from  the  date  when  the  con- 
sideration was  paid. 

JIarthelis  Appu  r.  Jayewardene^  distinguished. 

The  facts  appear  as  follows  in  the  judgment  of 
Lascelles  C.  J: — 

This  appeal  raises  a  question  with  regard  to  the  law  of 
prescription  under  the  following  circumstances. 

In  1902,  one  Dosanhamy,  who  was  the  wife,  married  in 
community,  of  the  1st  plaintiff  and  the  mother  of  the  2nd 
and  3rd  plaintiffs,  conveyed  her  interest  in  a  certain  land  to 
the  defendant.  Dosanhamy's  interest  in  the  land  is  alleged 
by  the  defendant  to  have  been  sold  to  him  to  provide  the 
means  for  the  maintenance  of  Dosanhamy  and  her  children. 

The  claim  in  the  present  action  is  to  eject  the  defend- 
ant from  this  land ;  and  in  the  course  of  the  trial  it  was 
admitted  that  this  claim  must  succeed  inasmuch  as  the  1st 
plaintiffE.  Dosanhamy's  husband,  was  not  a  party  to  the 
deed  transferring  the  property  to  the  defendant.  The  dis- 
pute is  with  regard  to  the  defendant's  claim  in  re-convention 
for  Rs.  120,  the  consideration  for  the  sale,  which  sum  the 
defendant  states  was  utilised  for  the  plaintiff's  benefit. 


1.     {1908)  11  N.L.  R.  272 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  15 


The  plaintiffs  contend  that  this  claim  is  prescribed  and       Silva 

V. 

the    learned    commissioner    has    upheld    this   contention.       Silva 
The  defendant  appealed. 

A.  St.  V.  Jnye/rardenc,  for  the  defendant-appellant. — 
The  defendant's  claim  to  have  the  money  retui'ned  is  not 
prescribed.  The  action  may  be  instituted  within  3  years 
after  the  cause  of  action  arose.  In  this  case  the  cause  of  ac- 
tion arose  when  the  deed  of  sale  in  favour  of  the  defendant 
was  set  aside.  Until  then  the  defendant  had  no  grievance 
because  he  was  in  possession.  The  principle  here  conten- 
ded for  was  recognised  in  Coivjwr  v.  Godmond}  where  the 
defendant  had  granted  a  life-annviity  to  two  persons  and  the 
plaintiffs  were  the  executors  of  the  estate  of  the  surviving 
grantee.  Six  years  later  the  defendant  had  the  annuity 
declared  void  on  account  of  a  defect  in  the  memorial  of  the 
annuity.  Two  years  after  the  plaintiff  sued  to  recover  the 
balance  of  the  consideration  money  paid  for  the  annuity. 
The  defendant  pleaded  that  the  claim  was  barred  but  it  was 
held  that  the  claim  was  maintainable  as  the  cause  of  action 
arose  not  when  the  consideration  for  the  annuity  was  paid 
but  when  the  annuity  was  avoided.  Similarly,  in  this  case, 
the  cause  of  action  arose  not  when  the  money  was  paid  but 
when  the  plaintiffs  hacl  the  deed  of  sale  set  aside. 

E.  W.  Jayeicardene,  for  the  plaintiffs-respondents. — 
The  point  is  concluded  by  the  decision  in  Marthelis  Apj>u 
V.  Jayeivardene^  where  it  was  held  that  in  respect  of  a  claim 
to  recover  money  paid  on  an  informal  agreement  to  convey 
land  of  which  possession  had  been  given  to  the  vendee,  pres- 
cription commenced  to  run  from  the  date  of  payment  of  the 
money  and  not  from  the  date  when  the  vendee  was  dis- 
possessed. The  English  decision  cited  does  not  apply  as 
there  the  annuity  could  not  have  been  declared  void  except 
at  the  option  of  the  person  pleading  prescription,  but  in  the 


1.     0  Binrj  741.         2.     (1908)  11  N.  L.  B.  272. 


16 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Silva      present  case  the  deed  of  sale  was  not  valid  at  all  as  it  was 
SoVa      executed  by  a  married  woman  without  her  husband's  con- 
11       sent. 

LasceUes 

^•■''  ^4.  St.    Y.  Jayeimrdaie  in  reply.     Marthelis  Aj^ni  v. 

Jai/cirardme '^has  often  been  questioned.  Even  if  consid- 
ered an  authority,  it  can  be  distinguished  as  there  the  agree- 
ment to  convey  was  oral  and  there  was  no  agreement  which 
had  to  be  set  aside,  before  the  plaintiff  could  claim  his 
money. 

c.  a.  V. 

Lascelles,  C.  J.  (after  stating  the  facts  as  above  con- 
tinued thus; — ) 

'  The  crucial  question  is  with  regard  to  the  point  of  time 

at  which  the  cause  of  action  arose.  The  plaintiffs'  case,  as 
presented  to  us  on  appeal,  is  that  the  cause  of  action  arose  in 
1902  Avhen  the  defendant's  deed  was  executed.  The  de" 
fendant's  case  is  that  he  had  a  cause  of  action  for  the  refund 
of  the  purchase  money  when  the  plaintiffs  took  steps  to  eject 
him  from  his  share  in  the  land. 

The  defendant's  counsel  referred  me  to  Gowper  v. 
Gudmvnd  ^  In  that  case  the  defendant,  had  granted  a 
life-annuity  to  two  persons  and  the  plaintiffs  were  the  exe- 
cutors of  the  estate  of  the  surviving  grantee.  Six  years 
later  the  defendant  succeeded  in  setting  aside  the  annuity  on 
account  of  a  defect  in  the  memorial  of  the  annuity.  Two 
years  after  that  the  plaintiffs  sued  to  recover  the  balance  of 
the  consideration  money  paid  for  the  annuity.  The  question 
then  arose  Avhether  the  claim  was  barred  by  the  statute  of 
limitations.  The  point  on  which  the  decision  turned  was 
whether  the  cause  of  action  arose  when  the  consideration  for 
the  annuity  was  paid  or  when  the  defendant  avoided  the  an- 
nuity. The  Court  of  Common  Pleas  held  for  reasons  which 
appear  to  me  quite  applicable  to  the  present  case  that  the 
cause  of  action  arose  only  when  the  annuity  was  avoided. 


1     (1908)  11  N.L.  B.  212.         2.     0  Bing.  748. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  17 

Tindal  C.  J.  observed  that  if  the  decision  were  otherwise      Silva 

V, 

the  grantor  of  a  defective  annuity  might  in  every  case  de-      Silva 

fraud  the  annuitant  by  paying  the  annuity  for  six  years,  and  Lmj^h  , 
then  having  set  aside  the  securities,  by  pleading  the  statute       C.  J. 
of  limitations. 

Park  J.  held  that  the  grantee  could  not  have  sued  until 
the  grantor  had  set  aside  the  annuity  and  until  he  could,  the 
cause  of  action  was  not  complete.  Alderson  J.,  in  language 
which  seems  to  me  particularly  apposite  to  the  present  case, 
observed  "it  may  be  conceded  that  the  consideration  money 
"was  money  had  and  received  by  the  grantor  at  the  time  of 
"payment;  but  it  was  not  had  and  received  by  the  grantor, 
"to  the  use  of  the  grantee,  until  the  grantor  elected  to  treat 
"the  annuity  as  void."  This  reasoning  appears  to  me  to' be 
precisely  applicable  to  the  circumstances  of  the  present  case. 
It  is  obvious  that  if  the  cause  of  action  is  held  to  have  ac- 
crued at  the  date  of  the  deed  a  door  would  be  opened  wide 
for  fraud.  The  grantor  of  a  non-notarial  conveyance  would 
only  have  to  wait  for  three  years  to  enable  him  to  avoid  the 
conveyance  without  being  made  responsible  for  the  refund 
of  the  purchase  money.  Further  it  did  not  lie  with  the  de- 
fendant to  set  aside  the  deed  which  he  had  presumably 
accepted  in  the  belief  that  it  was  valid;  he  was  in  possession; 
he  had  got  Avhat  he  bargained  for;  and  it  was  only  when  the 
plaintiffs  took  steps  to  eject  him  that  he  had  any  ground  of 
complaint  or  cause  of  action  against  the  plaintiffs.  In  my 
opinion  it  is  quite  clear  that  the  cause  of  action  arose  only 
when  the  plaintiffs  began  to  disturb  the  defendant  in  his 
possession  and  that  the  defendants  claim  in  reconvention  is 
not  prescribed. 

Counsel  for  the  plaintiff -i-espondent  pressed  me  with 
the  decision  in  Marthelis  Appu  v.  Jayawardene  ^  which 
it  was  contended  was  conclusive  of  the  present  case.  This 
is  not  a  proper  occasion  to  consider,  whether  in  the  light  of 
the  English  authority  to  which  I  have  referred,  this  decision 
would  be  followed  by  a  Court  which  had  jurisdiction  to  re- 

1.     (1908)    11  N.  L.  R.  272. 


18  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Silva      view  the  decision.     It  is  enough  to  point  out  the  material 
SiuVa       difference  which  exists  between  the  facts  of  the  two  cases. 
,        ,,      In  Marthelis  Ajjpu  v.  Jayawardene'^  the  plaintiff  took  action 
C.  J.       to  enforce  a  verbal  agreement  by  the  1st  defendant  to  sell 
him  a  piece  of  land  for  Rs.  800;  he  averred  that  he  had  paid 
Rs.  720  of  this  sum  and  claimed   that   the    1st   defendant 
should  be  called  on  to  execute  a  transfer  and  in  the  alterna- 
tive to  refund  the  Rs.  720.     The  decision  was  based  on  the 
ground  that  the  cause  of  action  arose  when  the  money  could 
have  been  recovered  i.  e.  immediately  on  payment.     Hoav- 
ever  that  may  have  been  in  that  case,  it  cannot  be  contended 
in  the  present  case  that  the  defendant  had  a  cause  of  action 
immediately  on  the  execution  of  the  transfer;  at  a  time  when 
he  had  been  placed  in  possession  of  the  land  and  had  ap- 
parently got  all  that  he  had  bargained  for. 

For  the  above  reasons  I  hold  that  the  defendant's  claim 
for  a  refund  of  the  consideration  paid  for  the  land  is  not 
prescribed.  The  judgment  is  set  aside  and  the  case  remit- 
ted to  the  Commissioner  for  adjudication  on  the  footing  that 
the  defendant's  claim  is  not  prescribed.  With  regard  to 
costs  the  defendant-appellant  is  entitled  to  the  costs  of  the 
appeal.  The  order  made  by  the  Commissioner  as  to  the 
costs  of  the  trial  is  set  aside  and  at  the  conclusion  of  the 
trial  the  Commissioner  will  make  such  order  as  regards  the 
costs  of  the  trial  as  he  may  think  just. 

Case  remitted. 


Proctor  for  appellant. —  W.  D.  Martin. 
Proctor  for  respondent. — A.  de  Ahrew. 


1.    (1008.)  11  N.L.  R.  212. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  19 

GOONERATNE  v.  FERNANDO  et  ah 

No.  3254  D.  C.   Kurunegalle. 
Present :  Lascelles  C  J.  &  Pereira  J. 

Action  for  declaration  of  title — ouster — defendant  acquiring  title  after 
the  institution  of  the  action — title  in  a  third  party  at  the  time  of  the  ins- 
titution— Jus  tertii — hoiv  Ormon  land  can  be  alienated. 

In  an  action  for  declaration  of  title  to  land  a  party  defendant 
is  not  entitled  to  rely  on  a  deed  obtained  after  the  date  of  the  institu- 
tion of  the  action,  in  support  of  a  prayer  for  the  dismissal  of  the 
plaintiff's  action,  on  the  ground  of  superior  title,  nor  is  he  entitled  to 
set  up  the  title  of  a  third  party  as  against  the  plaintiff's  claim. 

Silm  r.  Silra,^  Ponnamma  c.  Weerasuori ijn .^  and  Silra  t.  Koiui 
Ilamine^  held  not  in  point  as  the  documents  the  effect  of  which  has 
been  considered  in  these  are  Fiscal's  conveyances  which  confer  title 
that  relate  back  to  the  actual  sales  in  execution.  A  formal  Grant 
under  the  public  seal  of  the  Colony  which  is  the  only  means  by 
which  the  Governor  is  empowered  to  alienate  land  belonging  to  the 
Crown  has  not  that  effect. 
Silva  V.  Fernando'^  followed. 

Per  Pereira  J,  The  defendants  cannot  succeed  in  their  prayer  for  a 
dismissal  of  the  plaintiff'  claim  unless  they  show  that  they  did  not 
oust  the  plaintiff  or  they  are  in  a  position  to  justify  the  ouster  by 
proof  that  at  the  date  of  the  ouster  they  had  a  superior  title  or  were 
acting  under  the  authority  of  somebody  having  a  superior  title.  The 
mere  fact  that  some  third  person  had  a  title  superior  to  that  of  the 
plaintiff  is  no  justification  at  all  for  the  ouster  by  the  defendants.  So 
that  neither  the  fact  that  at  the  date  of  ouster  pleaded,  the  Crown 
had  title  nor  the  fact  that  since  the  commencement  of  the  action  the 
defendants  have  acquired  title  is  relevant  on  the  question  whether, 
the  ouster  was  justified. 

The  plaintiffs  alleging  ouster  by  the  defendants  sued 
them  on  the  11th  September,  1907,  for  a  declaration  of  title 
and  ejectment.  The  defendants  set  up  title  in  themselves  to 
the  lands  in  dispute.  On  the  30th  September,  1902,  they 
were  allowed  to  amend   their  answer  by   averring   therein 

that  the  lands  in  claim  "were  the  property  of  the  Crown 

and  that  the  defendants  purchased  the  same 

from  the  Crown"  ;  and  on  the  31st  January,  1913,  they  were 
allowed  to  further  amend  their  answer  by  adding  the  words, 
"and  have  obtained  Crown  grants  Nos.  4785  &  4786  both 
dated  4th  January  1913." 

1.  2  C.  A.  O.  88.  8.  (1907)  10  N.  L.  R.  44. 

2.  1  S.  C.  D.  67.  4,  {1918)  15  N.  L.  R,  499, 


20  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Gooneratne  At  the  trial  the  following   issues   were   framed   among 

V. 

Fernando  others,  viz. 

(3)  Can  the  defendants  set  up  under  the  Crown  a  title 
quired  by  them  after  the  institution  of  the  action? 

(4)  Was  the  land  in  dispute  the  property  of  the  Crown? 

(5)  Did  the  Crown  convey  it   to   the   defendants? 

(6)  Are  the  lands  in  dispute  identical  with  the  land 
conveyed  by  the  Crown  to  the  defendants  ? 

The  plaintiff  objected  to  these  issues  and  the  Pistrict 
Judge  overruled  his  objection.    The  plaintiff   appealed. 

F.  M.  de  Sarain  for  the  appellant. — The  order  allowing 
the  issues  is  wrong.  The  rights  of  the  parties  must  be 
determined  as  at  the  date  of  the  action  (see  Silva  v. 
Fernandow  Silva  v.  Nona  Hamine;  ^  Ponnamma  v. 
Weerasuriya)?  This  principle  applies  to  a  party  defendant 
also,  except  in  a  partition  action.  The  plaintiff  and  the 
defendants  claim  the  land  through  Hetu  Etana  and  Dingiri 
Etana  and  the  defendant's  plea  of  title  from  the  Crown  is 
inconsistent  with  the  admitted  ownership  of  the  land. 

F.  de  Zoysa,  for  the  defendants-respondents. — The  prin- 
ciple enunciated  in  the  cases  cited  by  counsel  for  the 
appellant  does  not  apply  to  the  case  of  a  party  defendant 
(see  Silva  v.  Silva).*  The  defendants  do  not  pray  for  a 
declaration  of  title  but  merely  for  a  dismissal  of  the  plaintiff's 
action  and  therefore  they  are  entitled  to  rely  on  the  Crown 
Grant  although  it  has  been  issued  pendente  lite.  There  was 
no  objection  taken  to  the  amendment  of  the  answer  and  to 
the  inclusion  of  the  claim  under  the  Crown  Grant  and  the 
plaintiff  must  be  considered  to  have  acquiesced  in  it.  There 
can  be  no  objection  to  the  defendant's  claiming  under  two 
different  sets  of  parties.  The  action  is  an  action  for  the  land 
and  the  defendants  are  bound  to  put  forward  every  claim 
which  they  have,  otherwise  they  will  be  barred  (see  ^  S07 
Civil  Procedure  fade). 

1.  {1912)  15  N.  L.  R.  499         3.  1  S.  O.  D.  67 

2,  0907)  10  N,  L.  R.  44  4.  2  C.  4,  C  88 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  21 

F.  M.  de  Saram  in  reply.    The  case  of  Silva  v.  Silva  ^  Gooneratne 
does  not  apply  to  the  present  case  inasmuch  as  the  document,  Fernando 
the  effect  of  which  was  considered  in  that  case,  was  a  Fiscal's 
conveyance.     The  title  conferred  by  a   Fiscal's   conveyance  Pereira  J. 
relates  back  to  the  actual  date  of  the  sale   in   execution.    A 
Crown  Grant  has  not  that  effect.     There  can  be  no  question 
of  acquiescence  because  the  plaintiff  objected  to  the  amend- 
ment. 

c,  a.  V. 

Pereira  J. 

In  this  action  which  was  instituted  on  the  19th  September, 
1907,  the  plaintiff  claimed  certain  allotments  of  land,  and 
complaining  of  an  ouster  by  the  defendants  on  the  26th 
February,  1906,  he  prayed  for  a  declaration  title,  ejectment 
of  the  defendant  and  damages.  The  defendants  by  their 
answer  claimed  title  in  themselves  to  the  allotments  of  land 
in  dispute  on  certain  old  deeds.  On  the  13th  September 
1912,  the  defendants  were  allowed  to  amend  their  answer 
by  averring  therein  that  the  lands  in  claim  were  the  property 
of  the  Crown  and  that  the  Crown  advertised  the  same  for 
sale  in  the  Government  Gazette  of  October  28th  1910,  and 
the  defendants  purchased  the  same  from  the  Crown,  and 
paid  the  Crown  the  purchase  amount  for  the  same  ;  and  on 
the  31st  January,  1913,  they  were  allowed  to  amend  further 
their  answer  by  adding  the  words — "  and  have  obtained 
Crown  Grants  Nos.  4785  add  4786,  both  dated  the  4th  Jan- 
uary 1913."  On  those  averments  the  District  Judge  framed 
four  issues  which  are  classified  in  the  proceedings  as  the 
3rd,  4th,  5th,  and  6th  issues  respectively,  and  they  are  as 
follows — (3)  Can  the  defendants  set  up  a  title  acquired  by 
them  after  the  institution  of  this  action  ?  (4)  Was  the  land 
in  dispute  the  property  of  the  Crown  ?  (5)  Did  the  Crown 
convey  it  to  the  defendants  ?  and  (6)  Are  the  lands  in  dis- 
pute Of  any  of  them  identical  with  the  land  conveyed  by  the 
Crown  to  the  defendants  ?  The  present  appeal  is  from  an 
order  of  the  District  Judge  overruling  the  plaintiff's  objection 

/.    S  C.  A.  G.  88 


22  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Gooneratne  to  these  issues.     Clearly  these  issues  do  not  arise  in  this  act- 
FeriTando  ion.     Before  proceeding  further   I   should   like   to    observe 
*^  ''^-      that,  at  the  argument  of  the  appeal,    I   was   under  the   im- 
Pereira  J.  pression  that  the  defendants,  in  addition   to   praying   for   a 
dismissal  of  the  plaintiff's  claim,  had  prayed  for   a   declarat- 
ion of  claim  in  themselves. 

If  they  had  done  so,  they  would,  with  reference  to  that 
prayer,  be  in  no  better  position  than  the  plaintiff  with  re- 
ference to  his  prayer  in  his  plaint  for  a  declaration  of  title 
and  as  has  been  recently  held  by  the  Privy  Council  in  the 
case  of  Silva  v.  Fernando^  in  an  action  rem  vindicare, 
the  plaintiff  cannot  succeed  on  the  strength  of  a  title 
acquired  after  the  commencement  of  the  action,  though 
possibly,  (I  may  add)  when  a  plaintiff,  having  title 
at  the  commencement  of  the  suit,  loses  it  during  its  pogress 
the  defendant  is  entitled  to  be  absolved,  (see  Voet  6-1-4). 
However,  as  observed  already,  the  defendants  contented 
themselves  with  praying  for  a  dismissal  of  the  plaintiff's 
claim.  There  is,  in  fact,  another  prayer,  namely,  for  com- 
pensation for  improvements  which  need  not  be  noticed  in 
connection  with  this  appeal.  Now,  the  defendants  cannot 
succeed  in  their  prayer  for  the  dismissal  of  the  plaintiff's  claim 
unless  they  show  that  they  did  not  oust  the  plaintiff  or  they 
are  in  a  position  to  justify  the  ouster  by  proof,  that  at  the 
date  of  the  ouster  they  had  a  superior  title  or  were  acting 
under  the  authority  of  somebody  having  a  superior  title. 
The  mere  fact  that  some  third  person  had  a  title  superior  to 
that  of  the  plaintiff  is  no  justification  at  all  of  the  ouster  by 
the  defendant.  So  that  neither  the  fact  that  at  the  date  of 
ouster  pleaded,  the  Crown  had  title  to  the  property  in  claim 
nor  the  fact  that,  since  the  commencement  of  the  action  the 
defendants  have  acquired  title,  is  relevant  on  the  question 
whether  the  ouster  was  justified. 

In  the  course  of  the  argument  in  appeal  the  case  of 
Silva  V.  Silva^  was  cited  to  us  behalf  of  the  respondents  and 

L  (1912)  15  N.  L.  R.  499,  S,     2  G.  A.  C,  88, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  23 

the  cases  of  Ponnamma  v.  Weerasuriya  ^  and  Silva  v.'  Nona  Pathuru- 
7-T-        ■     •)  Pillai 

Hainine'  vfere   cited  on  behalf  of  the  appellant;   but  the         v. 

documents  of  which  the  effect  has  been  considered  in   these  Kandappen 

cases  are  Fiscal's  conveyances  which  confer  title  that  relate 

back    to   the  actual  sales  in  execution.     A   formal   Grant 

under  the  public  sale  of  the  Colony  which  is  the  only  means 

by   which   the    Governor    is    empowered   to    alienate   land 

belonging  to  the  Crown  has  not  that  effect. 

For  the  reasons  given  above  I  would   allow  the  appeal 
with  costs. 

Lascelles  C.  J. — I  agree 

A2opeal  allowed. 

Proctor  for  appellant — G,  P.  Markus. 

Proctor  for  respondents — E.  G.  Goonewavdene. 


-:o:- 


PATHURUPILLAI  v.  KANDAPPEN  et  al. 

No.   15605   C.   R.   Batticaloa. 

Present :     Pereira   J. 

12th  May  1913. 

Writ  re-issne  of^no fresh  seizure — death  of  judgment-debtor  before 
seizure— failure  to  subxtitute  heirs — sale  invalid — Ciril  Procedure  Code 
Xo.  2  oflSSO,  §  S24,  225,  341,  344. 

There  must  be  a  fresh  seizure  in  the  case  of  a  re-issue  of  writ  to 
justify  a  sale  thereunder. 

Seiiible,  the  re-issue  of  a  writ  after  the  death  of  a  judgment- 
debtor  and  without  substitution  of  his  representatives  is  illegal. 

Omer  r.  Fernando^  followed. 

This  was  an  action  on  a  mortgage  bond.  Decree  was 
entered  against  the  defendants  and  writ  was  issued  on  the 
1st  June  1911,  returnable  on  the  1st  December    1911.     The 

/.     1  S.  G.  D.  67.         2.  (1907)  10  N.  L.  E.  44. 
3.     {1913)     2.  G.  A.  C.  129. 


Pereira  J. 


U  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Pathuru-   properties  in  question  were   seized   in   July    1911.     In   the 

^t!^'      month  of  October  1911  the  1st  defendant  died  but   no   steps 

Kandappen  ^^gj-g  taken  to  substitute  his  heirs  as  defendants.     The  Avrit 
et  al.  1  J    •  • 

was  returned  to  court  and  was  issued  for  the  second  time  in 

January  1911  without  notice  to  the  heirs.  In  June  1911 
the  lands  were  sold  and  purchased  by  one  Sathasivam  who 
only  paid  J  of  the  purchase  but  failed  to  pay  the 
balance  |  ths.  Thereupon  a  writ  was  issued  in  August  1911 
for  the  third  time  and  the  properties  were  re-sold  in  Octo- 
ber 1912.  There  was  no  seizure  under  the  last  writ.  The 
2nd  defendant  moved  that  the  sale  be  set  aside  on  the 
grounds  that  (1)  there  was  no  valid  seizure  at  the  time  of 
the  sale  (2)  that  the  1st  defendant's  representatives  were 
not  substituted  on  the  record  as  defendants.  The  learned 
Commissioner  of  Requests  (T.  W.  Roberts  Esq:)  disallowed 
the  application  and  against  this  order  the  2nd  defendant 
appealed. 

Balasingam  for  the  appellant. — The  sale  is  bad  for  two 
reasons.  There  should  have  been  a  new  seizure  every 
time  the  writ  was  re-issued.  This  was  not  done  and  there- 
fore when  the  property  was  sold,  there  was  no  seizure  upon 
it.  The  seizure  under  the  first  issue  of  writ  was  withdrawn 
immediately  the  writ  was  returned  to  Court.  The  sale  is 
therefore  bad.  Secondly,  at  the  time  when  writ  was  issued 
in  August  1912  the  1st  defendant  was  dead  and  his  heirs 
should  have  been  substituted  as  defendants,  before  the  writ 
was  re-issued  (see  §  S41  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  also 
Omer  v.  Fernando^  ;  Sheo  Pasad  v.  Hira  LarJ)  This  not 
having  been  done  the  writ  must  be  considered  to  be  illegal 
and  the  sale  null  and  void. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira  J,  In  this  case  application  was  made  by 
the  appellant  to  cancel  a  sale  in  execution  of  her  property, 
not  on  the  ground  as  the  District  Judge  appears  to  have 
understood,  of  irregularity  in   the  conducting  of   the  sale, 

1.     {1918)  2.  C.  A.  C.  129.         2.    I.  L.  R.  12  All.  441. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  25 

but  on  the  ground  of  illegality  in  the  procedure  adopted.    The    Pathuru- 

application,    I    take  it,   was  made  under   §    .344    of    the        v. 

Civil  Procedure  Code.     The  question  involved  is  whether  a  ^^"/^f^^" 

seizure  of  land  on  a  writ  of  execution  can  be  availed  of   for 

Pcrcif  A  3 
the  purposes  of  the  sale  of  the  same  land  on  the  same  writ 

when  since  the  seizure  it  has  been  re-issued  after  the  return 
to  the  Court.  Now,  it  is  clear  that  our  Civil  Procedure  Code 
makes  no  provision  whatever  for  the  re-issue  of  a  writ  or 
indeed  of  any  other  process.  Application  for  execution  is 
made  under  §  224  and  in  making  this  application  it 
is  provided  that  the  applicant  should  state  the  result  of 
previous  applications,  if  any,  made  for  execution,  and  the 
amount  of  previous  levies,  if  any,  clearly  indicating  that 
the  application  for  execution  is  to  be  made  as  provided  for 
by  §  224,  not  only  where  a  writ  is  applied  for  in  the 
first  instance  but,  when  a  writ  has  once  been  issued  and  the 
amount  of  the  judgment  partially  recovered.  But,  where 
the  application  under  §  224  is  allowed  there  is  no  pro- 
vision for  the  re-issue  of  an  old  writ,  but  the  provision 
is  for  the  issue  of  a  writ  in  form  No.  43  (see  §  225, 
paragraph  .3).  The  Legislature,  without  proper  appreciation 
apparently,  of  the  fact  that  there  is  no  provision  in  the 
code  for  the  re-issue  of  writs,  and  that,  therefore,  each  time 
that  executio  n  is  allowed  the  necessary  stamp  duty  should  be 
paid  by  the  applicant  by  duly  stamping  each  writ  taken  out, 
and  that  there  was  hence  no  necessity  for  safe-guarding  the 
revenue  in  the  matter  of  the  re-issue  of  writs,  provided  in 
the  Stamp  Ordinance  of  1890  that  no  writ  should  be  re-issued 
without,  as  the  provision  has  been  construed  by  Wendt  J  in 
the  case  of  Palaniaj)pa  v.  Samsudeen,^  payment  afresh  of 
the  stamp  duty  required  for  a  new  writ.  The  same  mistake 
has  unfortunately  been  repeated  in  the  Stamp  ordinance  of 
1909;  and  while  Layard  C.  J.  was  of  opinion  in  the  case 
already  cited  (Palaniappa  v.  Sanisudeen)  that  a  writ  once 
returned  to  court  could  not  not  be  re-issued  except  in  the 
circumstances  mentioned  in  the  Stamp  Ordinance,  I  take  it 
that  in  the  case  of  Muttapa  Uhetty  v.  Fernando^  the  Judges 

/.     8.  N.  L.  B.  325.         2.    10.  N.  L.  E.  180. 


26  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

A.  S.  P.  constituting  the  court  were  of  opinion  that  a  writ  might  in 
V.  other  circumstances  as  well  be  re-issued  provided  the  stamp 
Gunesekere.  ^^^y  ^^^g  pg^j^  afresh  ;  but  I  understand  them  to  mean  that 
the  re-issue  of  writ  was,  in  any  case,  to  have  the  same  efEect 
as  the  issue  of  a  fresh  writ.  In  view  of  the  provisions  of 
the  Civil  Procedure  Code  which  allow  no  re-issue  of  writs, 
there  can  be  no  doubt  that,  that  must  be  so.  The  only  ex- 
tension of  those  provisions  resulting  trom  the  judgments 
in  the  case  of  Muttcq^a  v.  Fernando^  is  that  the  process  may 
differ  in  form,  but  its  effect  is  left  untouched.  That  being  so, 
there  must  be  a  fresh  seizure  in  case  of  the  re-issue  of  a 
writ  to  justify  a  sale  there-under.  In  view,  therefore,  of 
§  341  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  the  judgment 
of  this  Court  in  Omer  v.  Fernandu,^  I  allow  the  appeal 
with   costs. 

Appeal  allowed. 

Proctor  for  appellant — J.  A.  Kadiramer 


-:o:- 


ASSISTANT  SUPERINTENDENT   OF   POLICE, 
MATARA  V.  GUNESEKERE 

No.  4637,  P.  C.  Matara. 

Present:  Wood  Renton,  J. 

11th  April,   1913. 

Confession  made  tojMllce  officer  at  departmental  inquiry — inadmissible 
when  person  mailing  It  is  suiseciuently  charged — giving  false  informatioti' 
to  pnilic  officer— whether  informant  should  be  allowed  to  bring  criminal  case 
before  proceedings  are  tajien  against  him — Evidence  ordinance  iVo.  14  of 
1S95,  §  17— Penal  code  M.  S  of  1SS3   §  ISO. 

The  accused  presented  a  petition  to  the  Assistant  Superinten- 
dent of  Police,  charging  one  of  his  subordinates  a  Station  House  Officer 
with  having  obtained  an  illegal  gratification.  The  Assistant  Superin- 
tendent, thereupon,  held  a  departmental  inquiry  at  which  the  accused 
admitted  his  guilt  and  begged  for  pardon. 

Thereafter  the  accused  was  charged  in  the  Police  Court  with 
having  given  false  information  to  a  public  officer  under  §  180  of 
the  Ceylon  Penal  Code. 

1.    10  N.  L.  B.  180.         2.  C.  A.  C.  ISO. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  27 

Held  that  the  statements  made  by  the  accused  to  the  Police     A.  S.  P. 

Officer  at  the  departmental  inquiry,  admitting  his  guilt  and  asking  for     Matara 

pardon  were  not  admissible  in  evidence.  „       ^' , 

Gunesekere. 

Begina  v.  Andris^  and  Xngohamy  v.  Pabilis  Perera^  followed. 

Where  an  accused  gives  false  information  to  a  Public  Officer  it 
is  not  necessary  that  he  should  be  given  an  opportunity  of  bringing  a 
criminal  case  against  the  person  informed  against  before  he  is 
prosecuted  under  §  180  of  the  Penal  Code. 

Mmpresi  i).  Jamrd^  and  Kmdersley  v.  David  *  distinguished. 

In  this  case  the  accused  gave  a  petition  to  the  Assistant 
Superintendent  of  Police  at  Matara  charging  the  Station 
House  Officer  of  Hakmana  with  having  obtained  an  illegal 
gratification  from  him.  On  the  receipt  of  the  petition  the 
Assistant  Superintendent  of  Police  requested  the  accused  to 
appear  before  him  at  a  departmental  inquiry  into  the  allega- 
tions in  the  petition.  The  accused  appeared  and  begged  for 
pardon.  After  inquiry  the  Assistant  Superintendent  of 
Police  found  the  charges  to  be  groundless  and  charged  the 
accused  in  the  Police  Court  of  Matara  with  having  given 
false  information  to  a  public  servant  with  intent  to  cause  the 
public  servant  to  use  his  lawful  power  to  the  injury  of 
another  person,  an  ofEence  punishable  under  §  180  of  the 
Ceylon  Penal  Code.  In  the  course  of  his  evidence  the  Assis- 
tant Superintendent  of  Police  stated  that  at  the  inquiry  the 
accused,  when  called  upon  to  substantiate  the  allegations  in 
his  petition,  begged  for  pardon  and  admitted  his  guilt;  he 
also  stated  that  he  examined  the  witnesses  whom  the  accused 
had  named  and  found  that  they  did  not  bear  out  his  state- 
ments. These  witnesses  were  not  called  at  the  trial  in  the 
Police  Court. 

One  of  the  witnesses  at  the  trial  characterised  the  ac- 
cused as  a  "habitual  petitioner"  and  as  having  the  reputation 
of  being  a  village  proctor.  The  accused  was  convicted  by 
the  Police  Magistrate  and  sentenced  to  6  months  rigorous 
imprisonment. 

1.     sJlTamh.   31.  3.     (1883)     1.  L.  E.  5  All  887. 

g,     7-Tamh.    25.  4.     {1908)     11.  N.  L.  R.  371. 


28  COUET  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

A.  S.  P.  The  accused  appealed. 

Matara 

Gunesekere  A.St.  F.  JayeM'artiene  for  the  appellant. — The  proceed- 
^  „  _  ings  are  wholly  irregular.  A  good  portion  of  the  evidence 
ton,  J.  recorded  is  inadmissible.  The  Assistant  Superintendent  of 
Police  in  his  evidence  says  that  the  accused  admitted  his 
guilt  at  the  departmental  inquiry  and  asked  for  pardon. 
This  is  a  confession  to  a  police  officer  and  is  not  admissible. 
{Regina  v.  Andris^ ;  Nugohamy  v.  Pabilis  Perera^  .)Evidence 
to  the  effect  that  the  accused  is  a  habitual  petitioner  and  is  a 
village  proctor  being  evidence  of  bad  character  has 
been  wrongly  admitted.  The  proceedings  against  the  ap- 
pellant are  premature.  He  should  be  given  an  opportunity 
of  making  good  his  accusation  against  the  Station  House 
Officer  in  a  Court  of  law  before  he  is  proceeded  against 
under  §  180.  {Kindersley  v.  David^  following  En).press  v. 
Jamni.'^ ) 

Garvin  A.  S.  G.  for  respondent. — It  is  submitted  that 
even  apart  from  the  evidence  objected  to,  there  is  evidence 
enough  to  support  the  conviction.  The  case  of  Empress  v. 
Jamni^  does  not  apply  here.  In  that  case  the  accused  not 
merely  complained  to  the  Police  but  instituted  a  criminal 
case  also.  It  is  therefore  but  reasonable  that  no  proceedings 
should  be  taken  against  her  before  her  criminal  case  was 
disposed  of. 

c.  a.  V. 

Wood  Renton  J. — The  learned  Police  Magistrate  has 
written  a  very  careful  and  forcible  judgment  in  this  case. 
But  there  is  so  much  inadmissible  evidence  on  the  record 
that,  as  I  stated  at  the  close  of  the  argument,  I  have  come  to 
the  conclusion  that  there  ought  to  be  a  new  trial  before  an- 
other .Judge.    The  ease  is  a  serious  one,  and,  if  it  is  proved, 


1.    {1900)    2.  Tamh  SI.         3.    11  N.  L.  B.   371. 

3,     0908)     7.  Tamb  25,         4.     (1883)  I.  L.  R,  5.  All  3^7, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  29 

the  appellant  deserves    the  punishment  which  he  has  re-     ^- 1-  ?■ 

ceived.     But  the  very  seriousness  of  the  charge  makes  it  in-         v. 

cumbent  upon  us  to  see  that  no  evidence  has  been  admitted 

which  could   have  really  prejudiced  the  appellant's  case.  Wood  Ren- 

ton,  J. 
We  find  the  Assistant  Superintendent  of  Police  repeating  m 

his  evidence  at  the  trial  statements  made  to  him  at  his  de- 
partmental inquiry  by  persons  who  were  not  called  as 
witnesses  before  the  Police  Magistrate.  He  tells  the  Court 
that  the  appellant  on  his  appearance  before  him  admitted  his 
guilt  and  asked  for  pardon — a  statement  clearly  inadmissible 
in  view  of  the  provisions  of  §  17  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance 
according  to  its  interpretation  in  such  cases,  as  Reg.  v. 
Andris^  and  Nugohamy  v.  Pahilis  Perera^  — and  the  Police 
Magistrate  has  received  evidence  to  the  effect  that  the  ap- 
pellant is  a  "habitual  petitioner"  and  has  the  reputation  of 
being  a  village  proctor. 

Two  of  the  points  urged  in  support  of  the  appeal  are 
clearly  untenable.  The  evidence  given  by  the  Assistant 
Superintendent  of  Police  as  to  his  powers  of  punishment 
over  subordinate  officers  is  sufficient,  as  Mr.  A.  St.  Valentine 
Jayawardene,  the  appellant's  counsel,  admitted,  to  make  him 
a  "public  officer"  within  the  meaning  of  §  180  of  the  Penal 
Code,  and  I  am  not  prepared  to  hold,  on  the  authority  of 
Kindersley  v.  David^  that  proceedings  could  not  be  taken 
against  the  appellant  under  §  180  until  he  had  been  required 
to  institute  a  criminal  prosecution  against  the  Station  House 
Officer  under  §  211.  The  case  of  Empress  v.  Jamni,*  on 
which  Grenier  J.  relied,  in  Kindersley  v.  David,^  is,  I  venture 
to  think,  distinguishable.  In  that  case,  the  accused  not 
merely  complained  to  the  Police,  but  instituted  a  criminal 
case  against  a  person  whom  she  falsely  charged.  It  was 
reasonable,  therefore,  for  the  Court  to  hold  that  she  should 
not  be  prosecuted  under  §  182  of  the  Indian  Penal  Code  till 
the  criminal  charge  had  been  disposed  of.  I  do  not  think 
that  the  ratio  decidendi  of  Empress  v.  Jamni*  applies  in 

1.    (1900)  S  Tamb.  31.  3.    (1908)  11  N.  L.  R.  371. 

8.     (1908)  7  Tc(,mb.  25,  4.     (1883)  1. 1,  R,  5  AU  387, 


V. 

Pieris. 


30  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Samltchy   a  case  like  the  present  where  the  appellant  contented  him- 
^^"      self  with  petitioning  for  a  departmental  inquiry. 

Apart,  however,  from  these  points  of  law,  the  conviction 
is  unsafe  in  view  of  the  inadmissible  evidence  that  has  been 
received  into  the  case.  I  set  aside  the  conviction  and  sen- 
tence and  send  the  case  back  for  a  new  trial  before  another 

Judge.  ,         ,        ,  ,     7 

Set  aside  and  sent  back. 

Proctor  for  appellant. — Allan  de  Zlliva. 


-:o: 


FULL    BENCH 

SAMITCHY   APPU  v.   PIERIS. 
No.  21328  D.  C.  Kandy. 
Present:  Lascelles  C.  J.,  Wood  Renton  &  Pereira  J.  J. 

19th   March    1913. 

Res  judicata — identify  of  form  and  auhject  matter  not  esiential — nu 
appeal  from  order  under  §  232  O.P.  C.—Enrjlish  Law  of  res  judicata— 
judgment  of  consent,  effect  of—Ciril  Procedure  Code  §  §  34,  207,  232,  241, 
252. 

The  plaintiff  obtained  judgment  against  the  defendant  and  seized 
money  due  to  him  in  the  hands  of  the  P.  C.  M.  O.  who  sent  a  sum  of 
Rs.  570-05,  to  the  Court  in  obedience  to  the  writ.  A  claim  was 
preferred  to  the  said  sum  by  the  appellant  under  a  deed  by  which  the 
defendant  had  assigned  to  the  appellant  his  rights  under  the  contract 
with  the  P.  C.  M.  0.  On  the  day  of  inquiry  the  plaintiff  consented  to 
the  claim  being  upheld  and  the  seizure  being  released. 

On  a  subsequent  date  the  P.  C.  M.  O.  remitted  to  the  Court  a 
further  sum  of  Rs.  553-38  that  became  due  to  the  defendant  in  the 
case.  The  appellant  claimed  it  once  more  under  his  assignment.  The 
plaintiff  alleged,  however,  that  he  had  consented  to  the  claim  being 
upheld  in  ignorance  of  the  fact  that  the  assignment  in  favour  of  the 
appellant  was  invalid  inasmuch  as  it  was  made  in  breach  of  an  express 
prohibition  contain^  in  the  contract  itself.  The  appellant  contended 
that  the  matter  was  res  judicata  and  could  not  be  re-opened  so  long 
as  the  consent  order  upholding  the  claim  was  in  force.  The  District 
Judge  disallowed  the  claim  overruling  the  plea  of  res  judicata  and 
permitted  the  plaintiff  to  draw  the  money.    The  claimant  appealed. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  31 


V. 

Pieris. 


Held,  iLascelles  C.  ./.  and  Wood  Bentoti  and  Pereira  J.  /.)  that  the  order  Samitchy 
was  not  appealable  and  that  the  claimant  should  have  brought  an       Appu 
action  under  §  247  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  to  have  the   order   on 
the  claim  set  aside. 

Held,  further  (Lascellei  C.  J.  and  11  yor?  Renton  J",  Pereira  J.  dis- 
senting) that  assuming  that  an  appeal  lay,  the  plea  of  resjudicnta 
should  be  upheld. 

LasreUcs  C.  J.  and  Wood  Itcntuii  J.  A  judgment  by  consent  has 
the  full  effect  of  a  res  judicata. 

Ill  re  South  American  and  Mej'ican  Oi.l  followed. 

Sections  34,  207  and  406  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  do  not  con- 
tain the  whole  law  of  rex  judicata  in  Ceylon. 

Per  LasceUes  C.  J. — There  is  no  distinction  between  the  Law  of 
England  and  the  Law  of  Ceylon  on  the  question  of  res  judicata. 
It  is  not  essential  that  the  subject-matter  of  the  litigation  should  "be 
identical  with  the  subject-matter  of  the  previous  suit  and  the  true 
test  is  the  identity  of  the  matter  in  controversy. 

Per  Wood  Renton  J. — All  that  is  required  for  the  purpose  of 
constituting  res  jiUicuta  or  estoppel  by  judgment  is  that  the  issue  in 
question  should  have  been  distinctly  raised  between  the  same  parties 
appearing  respectively  in  the  same  capacity  and  should  have  been 
directly  and  necessarily  determined  in  the  former'prooeedings.  It  is  of 
no  consequence  that  the  matter  is  not  dealt  with  in  the  decree  itself 
or  that  the  form  or  subject  matter  of  the  later  proceedings  is  different 
from  the  form   or  subject-matter  of  the  earlier. 

Per  Pereira  J.  Our  law  as  to  res  judicata  is  to  be  found  in  §  207 
of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  The  provisions  of  that  section  may  be 
supplemented  by  the  English  Law,  but  the  English  Law  cannot  be 
brought  in  to  qualify  those  provisions  so  as  to  supersede  any  portion 
of  §  207  or  to  restrict  or  expand  its  operation, 

A  decree  would  be  res  judicata  only  where  another  action  is 
attempted  on  the  same  cause  of  action. 

The  facts  appear  as  follows  in  the  judgment  of  Wood 
Renton  J: — 

The  facts  material  to  this  appeal  are  these.  Thomas  de 
Silva  the  appellant,  the  defendant  Abraham  Pieris, 
and  Adrian  Fonseka  entered  into  a  contract  with  the 
Principal  Civil  Medical  Officer  on  27th  June,  1911,  to  supply 
to  the  Government  Hospital  at  DambuUa  certain  articles  of 


1.     (1895)  1.  Ch  37. 


32  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Samitchy  food  from  1st  July,  1911,  to  30tli  June,  1912.  By  deed  No. 
"^v!""  1424  of  12th  September,  1911,  Pieris  and  Fonseka  assigned 
Pieris.  to  tiie  appellant  their  rights  under  the  contract.  This  assign- 
ment was  effected  in  breach  of  a  condition  of  the  contract 
that  it  should  not  be  assigned  without  the  previous  written 
consent  of  the  Principal  Civil  Medical  Officer.  The  plain- 
tiff-respondent Samitchi  Appu  obtained  judgment  against 
Pieris  in  this  case  and— I  am  taking  the  facts  as  they  are 
now  placed  before  us  in  the  learned  District  Judge's  reply, 
dated  27th  February,  to  a  letter  sent  to  him  by  direction  of 
my  brother  Pereira  and  myself  at  the  close  of  the  first  argu- 
ment—seized, under  §  232  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  what 
was  then  the  unascertained  sum  due  to  Pieris  under  the  con- 
tract referred  to  «n  the  hands  of  the  Principal  Civil  Medical 
Of&cer.  The  Principal  Civil  Medical  Officer  paid  the  money 
into  the  Court  of  Requests,  Colombo.  The  appellant  claimed 
it  by  virtue  of  his  assignment.  The  matter  came  on  for 
investigation  in  the  District  Court  of  Colombo,  and  the  res- 
pondent there  formally  consented  to  the  appellant's  claim 
being  upheld.  Subsequently  a  further  sum  of  Rs.  5.53 
38  cts.  accrued  due  to  Pieris  under  the  contract  with  the 
Principal  Civil  Medical  Officer,  and  the  latter  paid  it  into  the 
District  Court  of  Kandy.  The  appellant  claimed  it  once 
more  under  his  assignment,  fortified  as  that  assignment  had 
been  by  the  respondent's  consent  to  the  claim  being  upheld 
in  the  previous  proceedings  in  the  District  Court  of  Colombo. 
The  respondent  alleged,  however,  that  he  had  consented  to 
the  claim  being  upheld  in  ignorance  of  the  fact  that  the 
assignment  by  Pieris  and  Adrian  Fonseka  of  their  rights  in 
favour  of  the  appellant  had  been  made  in  breach  of  an  ex- 
press prohibition  contained  in  the  contract  itself.  The 
appellant  contended,  on  the  other  hand,  that  the  matter  was 
7-es  judicata  and  could  not  be  re-opened  so  long  as  the  con- 
sent order  upholding  the  claim  was  enforced.  The  District 
Judge  declined  to  accept  this  contention  and  allowed  the 
motion  by  the  respondent  that  the  sum  in  question  should 
be  paid  over  to  him.  The  present  appeal  is  brought  from 
that  order. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  33 

This  case  was  referred  to  a  Full  Bench  by  Wood  Renton  Samitchy 

Appu 
and  Pereira  J.  J.  v. 


Pieris. 


H.  A.  Jayewardene  for  the  appellant. — The  learned 
District  Judge  was  wrong  in  overruling  the  plea  of  res 
judicata.  The  same  matter  was  in  dispute  in  the  previous 
claim  inquiry  in  the  District  Court  of  Colombo  between  the 
same  parties.  The  question  in  issue  was  whether  the  ap- 
pellant was  entitled  to  the  moneys  accruing  under  the 
contract.  The  mere  fact  that  the  sum  claimed  in  the  pre- 
vious case  Avas  not  identical  with  the  sum  claimed  in  the 
present  case  is  immaterial.  The  matter  in  controversy  in 
both  cases  being  identical,  the  plea  of  res  judicata  should  be 
upheld  (see  Endris  v.  Adrian  Appii}  Dingiri  Menika  v. 
Punchi  Jlahatmaya^  ).  A  judgment  by  consent  has  the  full 
effect  of  a  res  judicata  between  the  parties  (Li  re  South 
American  and  Mexican  Comjmny^  ):  and  its  effect,  for  this 
purpose,  is  not  weakened  by  any  allegation  that  it  has  been 
entered  into  under  a  mistake  of  fact.  Counsel  also  cited 
Mohamed  Gassim  v.  Sinne  Lebbe  Marikar^ ;  Palatiiappa 
Chetty  V.  Saminathan  Ohetty' . 

De  Zoysa  (with  him  A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene)  for  the 
respondent. — There  is  no  appeal  against  the  order  of  the 
District  Judge.  It  is  an  order  under  §  245  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code  and  no  appeal  lies  from  such  an  order,  the 
remedy  of  the  party  aggrieved  being  an  action  under  §  247. 
Section  232  merely  indicates  the  mode  of  seizure  and 
although  the  proviso  to  that  section  says  that  all  questions  of 
title  or  priority  shall  be  determined  by  the  Court  from 
which  execution  issued,  such  questions  must  be  brought  be- 
fore that  Court  for  determination  in  the  manner  indicated  in 
§  §  241  et  seq_  (see  Tikwn  Singh  v.  Sheo  Ram  Singh" ). 


;.     (1905)  11.N.L.R.62     4.     (1909)  IS  N.  L.  R. 

184  at  p.  186. 

3.     (1910)  13.  N.  L.  R.  59     5.     (1912)  15  N.  L.  R.  161. 
3.     (1895)     1  Ch.  37  6.     (1895)     I.  L.  R.  19  286. 


C.  J. 


U  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Samitchy  The  decree  in  the  previous  case  is  not  res  judicata   inas- 

^v^"^  umch  as  the  respondent  consented  to  the  claim  being  upheld 
Pieris.  j^^  ignorance  of  the  fact  that  the  assignment  in  favour  of  the 
Lucelle*  pellant  was  invalid.  Besides,  the  subject  matter  of  the 
present  litigation  is  not  identical  with  the  subject  matter  of 
the  previous  proceedings.  Our  law  as  to  res  judicata  is  to 
be  found  in  §  207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  accord- 
ing to  that  section  the  particular  subject-matter  claimed 
must  be  identical  (see  Palaniappa  v.  Goinis;  137 — 138  D.  G. 
Kalutara  4709.) 

H.  A.  Jayewardcne  Ik  reply. 

c.  a.  r. 

Lascelles  C.  J. 

This  is  an  appeal  against  an  order  of  the  District  Judge 
of  Colombo  which  has  been  referred  to  the  collective  Court 
on  a  point  of  law  to  which  I  will  refer  later.  The  order 
appealed  against  is  dated  the  25th  October  1912.  The  facts 
on  which  it  was  given  are  set  out  in  the  affidavit  of  Thomas 
de  Silva.  It  appears  that  the  defendant  in  the  action, 
Thomas  de  Silva,  and  one  Adrian  Fonseka  had  jointlj^  en- 
tered into  a  contract  dated  27th  June  1911,  with  the  Princi- 
pal Civil  Medical  Officer  to  provide  food  for  the  Govern- 
ment Hospital  at  DambuUa.  By  deed  dated  12th  September 
1911,  two  of  the  joint  contractors  namely  Adrian  Fonseka 
and  the  defendant  assigned  all  their  interest  in  the  contract 
to  the  claimant  Thomas  de  Silva. 

A  sum  of  Rs.  553.38,  representing  money  due  to  the  de- 
fendant under  the  contract,  was  seized  in  the  hands  of  the 
Principal  Civil  Medical  Officer  in  execution  of  the  writ  in 
the  action.  Then  Thomas  de  Silva  preferred  his  claim  and, 
on  25th  September  1912,  moved  that  his  claim  be  investi- 
gated under  sec'ion  232  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 
The  appeal  is  from  the  dismissal  of  this  claim  by  the  Dis- 
trict Judge  on  the  ground  that  the  assignment  by  the  dis- 
fendant  and  Adrian  Fonseka  is  invalid  inasmuch    as    it   was 


y.     4  Bat.  21.        2.    S.  C.  M.  2oth  October,  1912. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


35 


V. 

Pieris. 

Lascelle* 
C.J. 


made  in  contravention  of  a  clause  in  the  contract  prohibiting  Samitchy 

Appu 
assignment  without  the  previous  sanction   of   the    Principal 

Civil  Medical  Officer.  The  appellant  urges  that  the  validity 
of  his  claim  is  res  adjudicata  by  reason  of  an  order  made  by 
the  District  Judge  of  Colombo  in  the  same  action  on  a  simi- 
lar claim  preferred  by  the  claimant. 

That  claim  was  made  on  2nd  March,  1912.  The  seizure 
is  described  as  having  been  made  on  the  22nd  December, 
1911  and  the  1.5th  February,  1912.  The  property  seized  is 
described  as  (1)  "any  sum  of  money  due  to  the  defendant  as 
contract  money  or  othei'wise  for  supplying  provisions  to  tjie 
Uda  Pussellawa  Govei-nment  Hospital  and  Lady  Havelock 
Hospital,  Colombo  (2)  any  sum  of  money  due  to  the  defen- 
dant on  account  of  the  contract  for  supplying  provisions  to 
the  Government  Civil  Hospital  at  Dambulla". 

It  is  with  a  sum  of  moiipy  seized  under  the  latter  head 
that  we  have  "to  do.  It  appears  from  the  letter  of  the  Princi- 
pal Civil  Medical  Officer  dated  11th  April,  1912  that  at  the 
date  of  seizure  Rs.  .570.05  was  the  only  sum  due  to  the  de- 
fendant and  that  this  -fium  was  forwarded  to  the  Com- 
missioner of  Requests,  Colombo. 

An  inquiry  into  the  claim  was  held  by  the  District 
Judge  of  Colombo  at  the  conclusion  of  which  an  order  was 
made  by  consent  of  the  parties  that  the  claim  should  be  up- 
held without  costs  and  that  the  seizure   should   be    released 

The  question  is  whether  by  reason  of  this  order  the 
claim  now  undei-  consideration  is  ;r.s-  adjudicata.  During 
the  argument  the  point  was  raised  which  I  understand  was 
taken  in  the  previous  argument  that  an  order  under  section 
232  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  was   not   appealable. 

On  this  point  we  were  referred  to  the  Indian  case  of 
Tiknm  Singh  v.  Shea  Ram  Singh  K  This  decision  is 
not  binding  on  us  but  it  contains  an  exposition  of  the  scope 
of  the  Indian  section  corresponding  to  our  section  232, 
which  I  think  should  be  accepted  as  correct.  Section  2.32 
is  one  of  a  group  of  sections  which,  under  the  heading  "mode 


1.     (1891)  19  Cal,  386, 


36 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Pieris. 

Lascelles 
C.J. 


Samitchy  of  seizure"  provides  for  the  seizure  of  property  of  different 
'^v!*^  categories.  The  first  part  of  section  232  describes  the  mode 
of  seizing  property  deposited  in  Court.  Then  the  proviso 
goes  on  to  provide  that  "any  question  of  title  or  priority 
arising  between  the  judgment-creditor  and  any  other  person, 
not  being  the  judgment-debtor,  claiming  to  be  interested 
in  such  property  by  virtue  of  any  assignment,  attachment 
or  otherwise,  shall  be  determined  by  such  court". 

This,  I  think,  merely  indicates  the  forum  in  which  the 
inquiry  is  to  be  made,  and  does  not  mean  that  the  procedure 
for  the  investigation  of  claims  for  this  particular  description 
of  property  is  different ^from  that  which  is  prescril)ed  for 
the  investigation  of  claims  in  the  case  of  all  other  descript- 
ions of  property  when  seized  in  execution. 

7  he  section  headed  "claims  to  property  seized"  (sect- 
ions 241-252)  relate  to  all  descriptions  of  property,  and 
orders  made  on  the  investigation  of  claims  are  final,  subject 
to  the  result  of  an  action,  if  any,  instituted  under  section 
247.  I  am,  therefore,  of  opinion  that  the  appeal  fails  on 
this  ground  and  must  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

The  question,  however,  with  regard  to  res  judicata  is 
important  and,  after  the  very  full  argument  which  we  have 
heard,  I  am  reluctant  to  leave  it  without  recording  the  con- 
clusion at  which  I  have  arrived. 

The  point  may  l)e  stated  thus.     A    claim   for   a   certain 
sum,  under  a  deed  of  assignment  had  been  allowed  by   con- 
sent ;  a  claim  for  a  further  sum  is  now  made  under  the  same 
deed.     The  question  is  whether  the   latter   claim   is   barred 
by  the  order  in  the  former   claim.     The    parties   being   the 
same  in  both  proceedings.     It  was  conceded   that   an    order 
mkde  by  consent  of  parties  is,  for  purposes  of   estoppel   by 
res  judwata,  not  less  conclusive  than  an   order   made   after 
a  contest.     It   was   further   conceded   that   by   the   law    of 
England  and  by  the  law  of  India  it  is  not  essential   that   the 
subject  matter  of  the  litigation  should  be  identical  with   the 
subject  matter  of  the  previous  proceedings  and  that  the  true 
test  is  the  identity  of  the  matter  in   controversy.     But   it    is 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  37 

contended  that  under  section  207    of  the   Civil   Procedure  Samitchy 

Appu 
Code,  or  rather  under  the   explanation   to   that    section   the         v. 

application  of  the  operation  of  the  rule  in    Ceylon   is   more       '^''"•. 

restricted.  Lwcelles 

CJ. 

The  current  of  judicial  decision  in  Ceylon  strongly  sup- 
ports the  view  that  on  this  point  there  is  no  distinction 
between  the  law  of  Ceylon  and  that  of  England.  {Endris  v. 
Adrian  Apjm^  ;  Kantaiyer  v.  Ramn^  ;  Dingiri  Menika 
r.  Punchi  Mahatmaya^ ). 

I  see  no  reason  for  accepting  the  contention  that  the 
whole  of  our  law  of  res  judicata  is  to  be  found  in  sections 
;!-t,  207  and  406  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  The  law  of 
rna  judicata  has  its  foundation  in  the  Civil  Law  and  was 
part  of  the  common  law  of  Ceylon  long  before  Civil  Pro- 
cedure Codes  were  dreamt  of.  But  even  if  these  sections 
contain  an  exhaustive  statement  of  the  law  on  this  point,  I 
cannot  see  that  there  is  anything  in  them  which  is  inconsis- 
tent with  the  principles  which  have  been  followed  in  the 
English,  Indian  and  American  Courts.  It  is  said  in  relation 
to  the  facts  of  the  present  case  that  the  "cause  of  action"  in 
the  former  proceedings  was  the  judgment-creditor's  denial  of 
the  claimant's  right  to  a  certain  number  of  rupees,  and  that 
the  "cause  of  action"  in  the  present  case  is  his  denial  of  the 
claimant's  right  to  a  different  sum  of  rupees,  and  that  the 
causes  of  action  in  the  two  proceedings  are  therefore  differ' 
ent. 

The  expression  "cause  of  action"  has  different  meanings 
as  is  shown  by  the  not  very  helpful  definitions  in  the  Code- 
But  I  do  not  think  that,  when  a  question  of  res  judicata 
arises,  the  term  means  merely  the  denial  of  a  claim.  The 
"action"  was  the  claimant's  claim  to  the  money,  It  is  surely 
no  answer  to  the  question  'what  was  the  'cause'  of  the 
fiction  ?"    to   say    "the    judgment-creditor's    denial   of  this 

/.  (1906)  11.  N.  L.  R.  68.      S,  {1910)  IS  N.  L.  R.  161. 
Z.  (1910)     13.  N.  L,  R.  59, 


38  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Samitchy   claim."      This  carries    the  matter    no  further.      It   merely 
^l^"^      amounts  to  a  statement  that  the  claim  was  disputed.     The 
Pieris.     ^j.^g  '-cause  of  action"  it  seems  to  me  is  the  right  in  virtue 
Wood  Ren-  of  which  this  claim  is  made;  the  foundation  of  the  claim 
*°"'  ■''      which,   in  this  ease,  is  the  right  claimed  under  the  assign- 
ment.    This  was  the  true  cause  on  which  the  action  was 
founded.      On  this  construction  no  difficulty  arises  under 
the  explanation  to  section  207. 

Lord  Watson  in  Chand  Kaiir  r.  Partap  Swgh^  siated 
with  regard  to  this  expression: — 

"The  cause  of  action  has  no  relation  whatever  to  the 
'defence  which  may  be  set  up,  nor  does  it  depend  upon 
"the  character  of  the  relief  prayed  for  by  the  plaintiff. 
"It  refers  entirely  to  the  grounds  set  forth  in  the  plaint 
"as  the  cause  of  action,  or  in  other  words,  to  the  media  upon 
"which  the  plaintiff  asks  the  Court  to  arrive  at  a  conclu- 
"sion  in  his  favour." 

If  the  term  "cause  of  action"  be  understood  in  this 
sense,  section  207  presents  no  difficulty  and  does  not  pre- 
sent the  law  of  res  adjudicata  being  applied  in  Ceylon  in 
the  same  manner  as  in  England  and  India.  The  cause  of 
action,  in  my  opinion,  was  the  right  which  the  claimant  asser- 
ted in  virtue  of  the  assignment  in  his  favour  and  was  one 
and  the  same  in  both  proceedings.  If  the  order  had  been 
appealable  I  should  have  decided  in  favour  of  the  appellant. 

As  it  is  I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs  on  the 
ground  that  the  order  is  not  appealable. 

Wood  Renton,  J. — (after  stating  the  facts  as  above, 
continued  as  follows : — ) 

The  argument  of  the  case  has  pursued  a  somewhat 
curious  course.  When  it  was  first  heard  before  my  brother 
Pereira  and  myself,  although  Mr.  St.  Valentine  Jayewardene 
informs  us,  I  have  no  doubt  correctly,  that  the  point  that  the 

1.     Hnhn  Chand  on  "i?fis  Judicata"  p.  11. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  39 

order  was  not  appealable  was  taken  by  him,  the  main  ques-  Samitchy 

Appu 
tion  pressed  upon  us  was  whether  or  not  the  District  Judge         v. 

was  right  in  holding  that  the  respondent  was  not  estopped        '*"^' 

from  disputing  the  appellant's  title  by  the  consent   order  in  Wood  Ren- 

the  claim  pi'oceedings.     It  was  with  a  view  to  clearing  the 

ground  for  a  determination  of  that  issue  that   we  sent  the 

case  back  for  a  statement  by  the  District  Judge  as  to  the 

exact  relation  between  the   two  sums  of  money  that  were  in 

issue  respectively  in  the  proceedings  in  the  District  Court  of 

Colombo  and  in  the  pi-esent  proceedings. 

At  the  re-argument,  however,  before  thi'ee  Judges,  Mr. 
Zoysa  brought  up  again  the  question  whether  or  not  the  case 
is  one  in  which  an  appeal  would  lie.  He  put  his  argument 
in  this  way  §  232  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  merely  pres- 
cribes the  mode  of  seizure  in  such  a  case  as  this,  and  al- 
though the  proviso  to  the  section  says  that  questions  of  title 
or  priority  arising  between  the  judgment-creditor  and  any 
other  person  in  regard  to  property  deposited  in  Court  or 
seized  in  the  hands  of  a  public  ofiicer  shall  be  determined 
by  the  Court  from  which  execution  issued,  ^uch  questions 
must  be  brought  before  that  Court  for  determination  in  the 
manner  indicated  in  §  §  241  et  seq.  This  construction  of  § 
232  is  supported  by  the  decision  of  the  High  Court  of 
Calcutta  in  Tikum  Singh  v.  Sheo  Ram  Singh  '  under  the 
corresponding  section  272  of  the  old  Indian  Code  of  Civil 
Procedure,  and  on  full  consideration  I  think  that  it  is  sound. 

This  finding  is  in  itself  sufficient  to  dispose  of  the  pre- 
sent appeal,  but  as  the  case  was  sent  back  to  the  District 
Court  of  Kandy  for  the  purpose  of  enabling  the  question  of 
res  judicata  to  be  argued  and  that  question  has  now  been 
elaborately  argued  before  us,  I  think  that  we  ought  to  ex- 
press an  opinion  upon  it.  The  facts  may  be  hypothetically 
put  as  follows.  The  Judgment-creditor  seized  a  sum  that 
has  accrued  due  to  his  debtor  under  a  contract.  A  third 
party  claims  it  as  the  assignee  of  all  the  debtor's  rights  under 


L     (1891)  I.  L.  K  19  Col.  2S6, 


iO  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Samitchy   that  contract.     The  fact  in  the  present  case  that  the  assign- 
v!"^      ment  had  been  executed  in  contravention    of  a  provision  of 
Piens.      j.j^g  contract  is  immaterial  since  the  party  for  whose  benefit 
Wood  Ren-  that  prohibition  existed  had  not  sought  to  take  advantage  of 
""'    ■     it,  and  it  could  not  have  the  effect  of  avoiding  the  assignment 
in  favour  of  third  parties.     The  judgment-creditor  consents 
to  the  claim  being  upheld  and  the  money  is  released  from 
seizure.     A  fui'ther  sum  of  money  accrues  to  the  same  deb- 
tor under  the  same  contract  later  on.     It  is   seized  by  the 
same  judgment-creditor.     The  same  claimant  sets   up  title 
under  the    same  assignment.      Can  the   execution-creditor 
challenge   in   the   subsequent    proceedings     the    claimant's 
title  ?     To  this  question  there  can  be,  in  my    opinion,  only 
one  answer:  he  cannot.     It  is  clear  law  that  a  judgment  by 
consent  has  the  full  effect  of  a   ;v,'s  judicata    between   the 
parties  (In   Re   Smit/i    American  and  Mexican   Co.  ^)     Its 
effect  for  this  purpose  is  not  weakened   by   any   allegation 
that  it  has  been  entered  into  under  a  mistake  of  fact.     If 
mistake  is  alleged,  proceedings  may   be   taken   to   set    the 
judgment   aside.     In   the   absence   of   such   proceedings   it 
stands.    All  that  the  law  of  England  or  of  India  (Hukm  Chand. 
lies  Judicatapp.  43  et  seq  and  see  Lemn  v.  Mitchell'^  )  or  of 
Ceylon  requires  for  the  purpose  of  constituting  res  judicata 
or  estoppel  by  judgment  is  that  the  issue  in  question  should 
have  been  distinctly  raised  between  the  same  parties  appear- 
ing respectively  in  the  same  capacity  aud   should  have  been 
directly  and  necessarily  determined  by  the  former  proceed- 
ings.    It  is  of  no  consequence  that   the  matter  is  dealt  with 
in  the  decree  itself  or  that  the  form  or   the  subject  matter  of 
the  latter  proceedings  is   different  from  the  form  or  the  sub- 
ject matter  of  the  earlier.     In  my  judgment  in  D.  G.  Intij. 
Kalutara  No.  4S3S,^   I  have  dealt  fully  with  the  English 
and  the  local  authorities  on  this  question  and  liave  endea- 


1.    {1S96)  1.  Ui.  37'  3.    (1913)  App.  Gas.  400. 

3.    S.  C.  M.  17(h  February  1913. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  41 

voured  to   show  that  the  case  of  Barrs   v.  Jackson  *  as  Samitchy 

Appa 
decided  by   Lord  Lyndhurst  L.  C.  in  appeal,  supports  the         v. 

view   of  the  law  which  I  have  just  stated.     The  case  of       '®"®" 

Regina  v.  Hutchmgs  ^  is  no  authority  to  the  contrary.    That  Wood  Ren- 

tOIla    J. 

decision  is  explained  by  the  House  of  Lords  in  Whitfield 
Corporation  v.  Cooke  ^  and  oflEers  an  admirable  illustration 
of  what  is  meant  in  the  law  of  res  judicata  by  an  inciden- 
tal issue  to  the  determination  of  which  the  effect  of  res 
judicata  will  not  attach.  The  only  question  that  the 
Magistrates  had  to  determine  was  whether  or  not  certain  ex, 
penses  amounting  to  £400  had,  in  fact,  been  incurred  in  the 
repair  of  a  road  and  were  due  by  an  individual  to  the  Cor- 
poration. The  Magistrates  went  out  of  their  way  to  inquire 
into,  and  to  express  an  opinion  upon,  a  question  which  they 
had  no  jurisdiction  to  entertain,  namely  whether  the  road  in 
question  was  a  public  street  or  not.  Their  views  of  this 
point  were  properly  held  on  appeal  to  relate  to  an  inciden- 
tal issue  alone  and  not  to  have  the  effect  of  res  judicata  in 
subsequent  proceedings  in  which  the  same  question  was 
raised.  It  is  obvious,  however,  that  totally  different  con- 
siderations arise  where,  as  in  Barrs  v.  Jackson  '  or  in  the 
present  case,  we  are  dealing  with  issues  which,  although 
they  may  not  be  directly  touched  upon  by  the  decree,  cons- 
titute the  very  ground  on  which  a  litigant  claims,  and  on 
which  alone  he  can  obtain,  judgment. 

It  is  suggested  that  the  principles  of  English  and 
Indian  law  as  to  res  judicata  are  excluded  by  §  207  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code.  I  see  no  reason  to  alter  the  opinion 
which  I  have  already  expressed  in  various  other  cases  that 
§  207  and  similar  sections  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  do 
not  embody  the  whole  law  as  to  res  judicata  in  Ceylon.  But 
even  if  we  are  restricted  to  §  207  of  the  Code,  I  am  quite 
unable  to  interpret  the  expression  "cause  of  action"  contain- 
ed in  the  explanation  to  that  section  as  being  restricted  to 


1.    (1842-1845)  1  Y.  and  C.  C.  C.  585  and  1.  Ph.  582 
2.     (1881)  6  Q.  B.  D.  300.  3.     (1904)  App,  Cas.  31. 


42  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Samitchy  the  particular  subject-matter  claimed.  The  cause  of  action 
'^v!"'  must  be  held  to  include  the  denial  of  the  right  to  the  relief 
Pieris.     wiiich  a  litigant  claims  and,  inferentially,  a  denial  of  the 

Fereira  J.  title  by  which  he  claims  it.  To  permit,  in  a  country  like 
this,  such  issues  as  legitimacy,  descent,  and  title  under  iden- 
tical deeds  of  transfer,  or  rights  arising  under  identical 
■written  contracts,  to  be  reagitated  between  the  same  parties 
appearing  in  the  same  capacity  in  any  number  of  indepen- 
dent actions  so  long  as  the  form  or  the  subject-matter  of  each 
of  these  actions  was  different,  would  be  to  involve  the  work 
of  the  Courts  of  first  instance  and  of  the  Supreme  Court  in 
almost  inextricable  confusion  and  to  create  most  undesirable 
facilities  for  converling  the  administration  of  the  law  into 
an  engine  of  oppression. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 
Pereira  J. 

I  regret  that  I  am  obliged  to  write  this  judgment  while 
on  circuit  with  only  a  few  of  my  note  books  to  refer  to. 
The  appeal  is  from  an  order  of  the  District  Judge  disallow- 
ing a  claim  to  a  sum  of  Rs.  553..38  seized  in  execution  of  a 
writ.  This  sum  was  seized,  at  the  instance  of  the  plaintiff, 
in  the  hands  of  the  Principal  Civil  Medical  Officer  as  money 
due  by  him  to  the  defendant  (execution-debtor)  on  a  con- 
tract for  the  supply  of  provisions  to  the  DambuUa  Hospital. 
The  claimant  (appellant)  claimed  this  sum  under  and  by 
virtue  of  an  assignment  (CI)  whereby  the  defendant  had 
assigned  to  him  all  monies  then  due  and  thereafter  to  be- 
come due  to  him  from  the  Principal  Civil  Medical  Officer 
on  the  contract  referred  to  above.  The  District  Judge  dis- 
allowed the  claim  on  the  ground  that  the  assigment  was 
invalid  inasmuch  as  it  contravened  a  certain  provision  of  the 
original  contract.  It  appears  from  a  letter  written  to  us  by 
the  District  Judge  in  reply  to  a  question  put  to  him  that  on 
a  writ  issued  at  the  instance  of  the  plaintiff  by  the  District 
Court  of  Colombo  a  totally  different  sum  of  money,  but  a 
sum  that  had  also  become  due  on  the  same  contract  had  been 
seized,  and  that  the  same  had  been  claimed  by  the  claimant 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES,  43 

on  the  same  assignment  (CI),  and  that  at  the  inquiry  before  Samitohy 
*he  District  Court  of  Colombo  the  plaintiff  in  the  present         v. 
case  had  consented  to  the  claimant's  claim  being  upheld,  and       '^"^" 
that  it  had  accordingly  been  upheld.  Pereira  J. 

In  the  present  appeal,  it  was  argued,  on  the  one  side, 
that  the  order  of  the  District  Court  of  Colombo  was  a  res 
adjudicata  which  did  not  permit  of  the  question  of  the  vali- 
dity of  the  assignment  CI  being  debated  in  the  present  case, 
and,  on  the  other  side,  that  the  claimant  had  no  right  of 
appeal  from  the  order  in  this  case.  On  both  these  conten- 
tions I  agree  with  the  Counsel  for  the  plaintifiE  (respondent) 
in  the  views  pressed  by  him.  The  order  of  the  District 
Judge  must,  in  my  opinion,  be  regarded  as  an  order  under 
§  245  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  and  it  is  well  established 
that  no  appeal  lies  from  such  an  order,  the  remedy  of  the 
party  aggrieved  being  an  action  under  §  247  of  the  Code. 
There  is,  no  doubt,  an  irregularity  in  the  present  case, 
namely,  the  claim  does  not  appear  to  have  been  made  before, 
and  referred  to  Court  by  the  Fiscal  in  terms  of  §  241.  If 
that  irregularity  is  to  be  taken  serious  notice  of,  the  clai- 
mant is  bound  to  fail  on  that  alone  in  this  appeal;  but 
assuming  the  claim  to  have  been  duly  made,  the  inquiry 
should  have  proceeded  as  an  inquiry  under  §  242  to  245  of 
the  Code.  True,  the  mode  of  seizure  in  a  case  like  the  pre- 
sent is  indicated  in  §  232,  and  the  Court  that  has  jurisdiction 
to  make  the  inquiry  in  certain  cases  is  also  indicated  in  that 
section,  but  there  is  nothing  in  it  to  shew  that  the  inquiry 
itself  is  not  to  be  the  usual  inquiry,  into  a  claim  to  property 
taken  in  execution,  under  §  §  242  to  245.  The  case  cited, 
by  the  respondent's  counsel  from  the  Indian  Law  Reports 
{.19  bale.  286)  appears  to  be  quite  in  point. 

On  the  question  of  res  judicata  I  may  say  that,  as  I 
have  had  occasion  to  observe  in  a  case  or  two  before  this, 
omitting,  as  unnecessary,  reference  to  §  41  of  the  Evidence 
Ordinance  which  deals  with  judgments  of  Courts  in  the 
exercise  of  probate  and  certain  other  special  jurisdictions, 
the  only  reference  in  that  Ordinance  to  the  law  of  estoppel 
by  judgment  generally  is  in  §  40.    That  section  enacts  that 


44 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Samitchy  the  existence  of  any  judgment,  order  or  decree  which  by  law 
^"^^^  prevents  any  court  from  taking  cognizance  of  a  suit  or  hold- 
Pieria.     j^g  ^  j.j,jj^j  jg  j^  relevant  fact  when  the  question  is  whether 

Pereira  J.  such  Court  ought  to  take  cognizance  of  such  suit  or  to  hold 
such  trial.  This  is  identical  with  the  provision  of  the  Indian 
Evidence  Act  on  the  subject.  The  question  is  where  "the 
law"  referred  to  here  as  preventing  "any  Court  from  taking 
cognizance  of  a  suit"  is  to  be  looked  for.  It  is  not  in  the 
Evidence  Ordinance  or  the  Indian  Evidence  Act.  Ameer 
Ali  and  Woodroflfe  in  their  work  on  the  law  of  Evidence 
applicable  to  British  India  says  {'ijcige  291, 1st  Ed)  that 
English  text  writers  deal  with  the  subject  of  res  judicata 
under  the  head  of  evidence  as  it  is  a  branch  of  the  law  of 
estoppel,  but  the  authors  of  the  Indian  Codes  have  regarded 
it  as  belonging  more  properly  to  the  head  of  Procedure;  and, 
in  India,  the  law  referred  to  above  as  preventing  a  Court 
from  taking  cognizance  of  a  suit  is  to  be  found  in  sufficient 
fulness  in  §  13  of  the  Indian  Code  of  Civil  Procedure. 
Apparently,  the  intention  of  the  authors  of  our  Code  was 
exactly  the  same.  The  law  referred  to  above  is  not  set  forth 
in  the  Evidence  Ordinance.  It  is  only  to  be  found  in  §  207 
of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  and,  in  saying  so  I  concur  in 
the  view  taken  by  this  Court  in  the  case  of  Palaniappa  v, 
Oomes  ^.  There,  Wendt  J.  said — "Our  law  as  to  res 
^'judicata    is     to    be     found     in    §    207    of     the     Civil 

"Procedure  Code  The  law  enacted  by  the   Indian 

"Civil  Procedure  Code  is  not  the  same The    pro- 

"visions  as  to  res  judicata  embodied  in  §  13  are  esentially 
"different  from  our  §  207."  This  being  so,  the  Indian 
authorities  cited  in  the  course  of  the  argument  have  no  ap- 
plication at  all  to  the  question  involved  in  the  present 
appeal.  I  am  prepared  to  concede  that  possibly  our  whole 
law  as  to  res  judicata  is  not  to  be  found  in  §  207  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code.  It  may  be  that,  under  the  authority 
of  §  100  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance,  this  provision  may  be 
supplemented  by  the  English  law,  but  there  is  the  authority 


1.    4  Bal  81, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  45 

of  that  very  section  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance  for  saying  Samitchy 

Appu 
that  the  English  law  cannot  be  brought  in  to  qualify  the        v. 

provision  of  §  207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  or  to  super-  ^'^"^• 
sede  any  portion  of  it,  or  to  restrict  or  expand  its  scope  and  .Pereira  J. 
operation.  What  §  207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  enacts 
is  that,  primarily,  all  decrees  shall  be  final  between  the 
parties.  This  is  the  substantive  enactment  in  the  section, 
meaning  that  whatever  is  laid  down,  as  held  or  ordered, 
within  the  four  corners  of  a  decree  cannot  be  debated  again 
^n  a  subsequent  action  between  the  same  parties.  Then 
comes' the  explanation  which  says  that  every  right  of  pro- 
perty or  to  relief  of  any  kind  which  can  be  claimed  or  put 
in  issue  between  the  parties  to  an  action  upon  the  cause  of 
action  for  which  the  action  is  brought  cannot  afterwards  be 
made  the  subject  of  action  between  the  same  parties  for  the 
same  cause.  These  concluding  words  are  important,  and 
they  must  be  given  a  meaning,  and  their  only  meaning 
appears  to  be  that  as  regards  the  incidental  and  collateral 
matters  mentioned  in  the  explanation,  the  decree  would  be 
res  judicata  only  where  another  action  is  attempted  on  the 
same  cause  of  action.  This,  I  take  it,  is  in  strict  accordance 
with  what  was  laid  down  by  Knight  Bruce  V.  C.  in  the  case 
of  Barrs  v.  Jackson  ^  where  it  was  held  that  a  finding 
of  fact  in  a  suit  in  the  Ecclesiastical  Court  for  a  grant 
of  letters  of  administration,  necessary  to  the  decision 
and  appearing  on  the  face  of  the  order,  was  not  conclu- 
sive in  proceedings  between  the  same  parties  in  a  Court 
of  equity  for  distribution.  The  judgment  in  the  case  was, 
it  may  be  mentioned,  set  aside  in  appeal,  but,  as  observed  by 
Lord  Selborne  L.  C.  in  The  Queen  v.  Hutchings  ^  "on  a 
ground  not  at  all  touching  the  principles  contained  in  it." 
It  may  be  that  these  principles  were  given  by  later  judicial 
decisions  a  somewhat  wider  operation  than  was  originally  in- 
tended, but  apparently  the  intention  in  the  mind  of  the 
framer  of  our  Civil  Procedure  Code  was  to  adhere  to  them 

1.    (1842-45)  1.  Y.  and  C.  G.  C.  585  and  1.  Ph.  583. 
2.     (1881)  6.  Q.  B.  D.  SOO,  804. 


46  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Samitchy  as  far  as  practicable,  and,  if  anything,  to    restrict    their 
^y^      application.     Such  a  course  may  have  been  necessary  in  view 
^'®"^-     of  our  rules  of  procedure  and  the  constitution  and  jurisdic- 
Pereira  J.  tions  of  the  different  Courts  of  the  Island. 

In  the  present  case  the  cause  of  action  in  the  proceeding 
before  the  District  Court  of  Colombo  was  essentially  differ- 
ent from  the  cause  of  action  in  the  proceeding  before  the 
District  Court  of  Kandy.  I  may  say  that  I  did  not  under- 
stand the  appellant's  counsel  to  contend  that  was  not  so.  In 
the  former  case  what  may  be  called  the  cause  of  action  was 
the  seizure  by  the  plaintiff  on  a  writ  issued  at  his  instance  by 
the  District  Court  of  Colombo  of  a  certain  sum  of  money. 
This  gave  the  right  to  the  claimant  to  come  to  Court  and 
make  his  claim.  In  the  latter  proceeding  the  cause  of  action 
was  the  seizure  by  the  plaintiff  on  a  writ  issued  at  his 
instance  by  the  District  Court  of  Kandy  of  a  certain  other 
sum  of  money.  True,  both  the  sums  were  claimed  by  the 
defendant  on  the  footing  of  one  and  the  same  document 
(assignment  01),  but  the  causes  of  action  being  esentially 
different,  while  by  reason  of  the  substantive  provision  of  § 
207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  the  order  or  decree  in  the 
former  case  was  res  judicata  with  reference  to  the  particular 
sum  of  money  dealt  with  by  it,  the  terms  of  the  "explana- 
tion" appended  to  §  207  would  not  permit  of  its  being 
pleaded  as  res  judicata  in  the  latter  case  with  reference  to 
the  other  matters  taken  cognizance  of  by  the  Court  in  the 
former. 

For  the  above  reasons  I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with 
costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor    for    appellant — Wilfred  de  Silva. 

Proctor  for  respondent — Dunbar  Jonklaas. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  47 

THE  ATTORNEY-GENERAL  v.  KALIYAMUTTU. 
No.  4657  D.  C.  BaduUa. 
Present:  Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J.  &  Ennis  J. 

1st  July,  1913. 

Right  of  appeal — orders  viade  under  Ordinance  Ko.  12  of  1840  ap- 
pealable— civil  in  natwe — Courts  Ordinance  No.  2  of  1SS9  §  §  22  ,^-  39. 

An  appeal  lies  from  an  order  made  under  §  1  of  Ordinance  No. 
12  of  1840.  Such  an  appeal  is  civil  in  its  nature  and  should  be  pro- 
secuted in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code 

Henry  v.  Aluwihare^  followed. 

The  appellant  was  charged  under  §  1  of  Ordinance  No. 
12  of  1840  with  having  encroached  on  certain  Crown  land. 
The  learned  District  Judge  ordered  him  to  deliver  over  poss- 
ession of  the  portion  encroached  upon  to  the  Crown  and  to 
pay  the  costs  of  the  proceedings.  Against  this  order  the  pre- 
sent appeal  was  taken. 

Garvin  A.  S.  G.  for  the  Crown  took  a  preliminary 
objection. — There  is  no  appeal  from  an  order  made  under  § 
1  of  Ordinance  12  of  1840.  The  only  remedy  open  to  the 
party  aggrieved  is  to  proceed  by  the  ordinary  course  of  law  to 
recover  possession  of  such  lands,  as  is  indicated  in  §  2.  The 
Ordinance  nowhere  confers  a  right  of  appeal  from  orders 
made  under  its  provisions.  Even  if  there  is  a  right  of  ap- 
peal, the  procedure  adopted  in  this  case  is  not  correct.  It 
has  been  held  that  proceedings  under  Ordinance  12  of  1840 
are  civil  in  their  nature.  Therefore  this  appeal  should  have 
been  prosecuted  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code  and  not  of  the  Criminal  Procedure 
Code. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayeivardene  for  the  appellant. — It  is  now  too 
late  to  contend  that  there  is  no  appeal  from  an  order  under 
§  1  of  Ordinance  12  of  1840.  Such  appeals  have  been 
allowed  (See  The  Queen  v.  Hahihu  Mohamado^ ;  1.  Bel,  and 
Vand  109).    Under  the  Courts  Ordinance  No.   1   of  1889 

/.    (2907)     10N.L.R.S58.    2.    Ram  {1843-45)  p.  129. 


48  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

The       -which    was    enacted    after    Ordinance    No.     12    of   1840, 

GeneraT  the    appellant  has    a  clear    right  of  appeal   (See    §    §   21 

■a-  V         &   39).     These    sections  were  construed    in    this  way   in 
Kaliya-  ^  i         •       4.1, 

muttu     the  case  of    Henry    v.    Aluivihare.    No    doubt,    in   tne 

Wood  Ren-  ol^  cases  above  referred  to  it  was  held  by  this  Court  that  the 

ton,        proceedings  under  §  1  of  Ordinance  No.  12  of  1840  are  Civil 

*       *     in  their  nature,  but  in  this  case  it  is  not  open  to  the  Crown 

to  raise  that  objection  inasmuch  as  the  Crown  has  itself 

treated  these  proceedings  as  Criminal. 

Wood  Renton,  A.  C.  J.— The  accused  appellant  was 
charged,  on  an  information  by  the  Attorney  General  under 
§  1  of  Ordinance  12  of  1840,  with  having  encroached  on  cer- 
tain Crown  land.     The  learned  District    Judge   has   given 
judgment   in   favour  of  the  Crown,   and  has    ordered   the 
appellant  to  deliver  up  possession  of  the  land,  and  to  pay  the 
costs  of  the  proceedings.    He  appeals  against  that  order. 
The  Solicitor-General  takes  a  two-fold  preliminary  objection 
on  behalf  of  the  Crown;  in  the  first  place,  that  no  appeal 
lies,  and,  in  the  second  place,  that,  even  if  an  appeal  does  lie, 
the  proceedings  under  Ordinance  12  of  1840  are  civil  and 
not  criminal  in  character,  and  appeals  from  orders    made 
under   that   enactment   must,   therefore,   be    prosecuted — a 
course  which  has  not  been  taken  here — in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.     I  am  clearly  of 
opinion   that  a  right  of  appeal  does  exist  in  such  cases  as 
these,  although  it  is  not  expressly  conferred  by  Ordinance 
12  of  1840.    The  fact  that  §  2  of  that  Ordinance  enables  a 
person,  against  ^whom  and  order  has  been  made  under  §  1, 
to  take  proceedings  for  the  recovery  of  land  from  which  he 
has  been  dispossessed  in  favour  of  the  Crown,  does  not  to 
my  mind  at  all  show  that  no  right  of  appeal  under  the  sec- 
tion should  be  recognised.    Apart  altogether  from  statutory 
provisions  to  which  I  will  refer  in  a  moment,  it  would  be 
hard  upon  persons,  in  the  possession  of  land  claimed  by  the 
Crown,  if  they  were  to  be  held  liable  to  be  dispossessed  by 
the  summary  procedure  created   by   §  1,   without  any  op- 

(1907)  10  N.  L.  R.  353. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  49 

portunity  of  contending  in  the  Supreme  Court  that  the  The  Attor- 
materials  necessary  for  the  justification  of  an  order  under  v. 
that  section  were  not  present.  In  addition  to  considerations  ^  'y*""" 
of  convenience,  we  have  the  facts  that  appeals  from  ordersWood  Ren- 
under  Ordinance  12  of  1840  have  been  recognised  in  a  series  a.  c' J 
of  cases  going  as  far  back  as  1843.  But  the  matter  is,  in  my 
opinion,  set  at  rest  by  the  provisions  of  §  §  21  and  30  of  the 
Courts  Ordinance,  which  give  to  the  Supreme  Court  an  ap- 
pellate jurisdiction  for  the  correction  of  all  errors  in  fact  or 
in  law  committed  by  Courts  of  first  instance.  It  was  held 
by  Sir  Joseph  Hutchinson,  C.  J.  in  the  case  of  Henry  v. 
A/uivihare^  that,  by  virtue  of  these  sections,  an  appeal  lies, 
from  an  order  awarding  damages  for  cattle  trespass  under 
the  provisions  of  Ordinance  No.  9  of  1876.  The  language  of 
§  §  21  arid  39  of  the  Courts  Ordinance,  and  the  reasoning  of 
the  learned  Chief  Justice  in  the  case  of  Henry  v.  Aluwihare  * 
are  amply  sufficient  to  cover  the  case  before  us.  I  would 
hold  that  an  appeal  lies,  and  that  this  branch  of  the  Solicitor- 
General's  preliminary  objection  fails.  In  regard,  however, 
to  the  second  branch  of  that  preliminary  objection,  I  think 
that  he  is  entitled  to  succeed  to  a  certain  extent.  It  has 
been  held  by  decisions  of  the  Supreme  Court,  sitting  in  its 
collective  capacity,  that  proceedings  under  Ordinance  12  of 
1840  are  civil  in  their  nature.  Appeals  from  orders  made 
under  that  section  are,  therefore,  civil  also  and  the  present 
appeal  should  have  been  prosecuted  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  I  do  not  think  that 
it  would  be  right,  however,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  there  is 
no  recent  case  in  which  this  question  has  been  expressly 
raised,  that  we  should  treat  the  portion  of  the  preliminary 
objection  that  I  am  dealing  with  just  now  as  altogether  fatal 
to  the  appeal.  I  would  direct  that  the  record  should  be 
sent  back  to  the  District  Court  of  Badulla,  and  that  the  ap- 
pellant should  have  leave,  notwithstanding  lapse  of  time,  to 
prosecute  his  appeal  from  the  order  of  which  he  complains 
as  a  civil  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court. 


;.     {1907)  10  N.  L.  R.  35$. 


50  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Ennis  J.— I  am  of  the  same   opinion,  anil  -would  make 
the  same  order. 

Sriii  back. 

Proctor  for  appellant.— .4.  P.  Burtlwhiiicmn. 


-:o:- 


SILVA    V   FERNANDO 

No.    9103.    D.    C.    Negomljo. 

Pre,wnf:   Pereira   &   Ennis   J.   J. 

27th  Augiist  1913. 

Miiiif/anc  iirtiiut — iv/u't/ii'r  2>wc/uisi'r  af  Fisciil.'s  xiili'.  tvlio  has  nut  oh 
taincd  Fi.iiuiVx  ciiiivrijaiice.  can  he  joined — uh.vrfafvmx  «.■■■  to  w/w  intii/  he 
joined. 

A  hypothecary  action  can  be  brought  against  a  person,  who  has 
purchased  the  property  mortgaged  at  a  Fiscal's  sale  held  in  execution 
of  a  writ  against  the  mortgagee,  but  who  has  not  yet  obtained  a 
Fiscal's  conveyance  in  his  favour. 

Per  I'i'reira.  .1. —  I  («'("  (2(>.  4.  2)  mentions  certain  persons  against 
whom  the  action  may  be  brought,  but  the  test  is  by  no  means  exhaus- 
tive. The  object  of  the  action  is  to  bind,  by  an  order  for  the  sale  of 
the  property  for  the  satisfaction  of  the  amount  advanced  to  the  deb- 
tor, all  those  who  have  or  claim  to  have  an  interest  in  the  property 
acquired.  Of  course,  a  person  having  or  claiming  to  have  no  such 
interest  may  not  be  sued  in  such  an  action,  but  the  question  of  interest 
is  not  to  be  too  narrowly  scrutinized  because  the  defendant  is  in  no 
way  prejudiced  by  the  action  so  long  as  no  costs  are  claimed  against 
him  except  in  the  event  of  an  unreasonable  contest  by  him  of  the 
plaintiff's  claim. 

This  is  an  appeal  from  a  judgment  of  the  District  Judge 
of  Negombo  (li.  E.  llvvim  Ksr^.) 


H.  A.  Jaijauxirdrne,  for  plaintiff-appellant. 

E.  W.  Jayaivardenc,  for  2nd  defendant-respondent. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  .^1 

Pereira  J. — In  this  case  the  simple  question  is  whether  Silva 
an  hypothecary  action  can  be  Ijrought  against  a  person  who  Fernando 
has  purchased  the  property  mortgaged  at  a  Fiscal's  sale  held  pg^gj^^  j_ 
in  execution  of  a  writ  against  the  mortgagor,  but  who  has 
not  yet  obtained  the  usual  Fiscal's  conveyance  in  his  favour. 
An  actio  Itypothficaria  (also  called  ucfia  qiuiai  Seri'iana) 
nnder  the  Roman-Dutch  I^aw  is  no  more  than  an  action 
whereby  a  creditor  follows  up  the  pledge  or  hypothec  bound 
to  him  expressly  or  by  implication  of  law,  when  satisfaction 
is  not  made  to  him  by  the  debtor  or  any  other  pnrty  interes- 
ted in  the  property  pledged  or  mortgaged.  Vaff  in  30.  4.  2. 
mentions  certain  persons  against  whom  the  action  may  l)e 
brought,  but  the  list  is  by  no  means  exhaustive.  The  object 
of  the  action  is  to  bind  by  an  order  for  the  sale  of  the  pro- 
perty for  the  satisfaction  the  amount  advanced  to  the  debtor, 
all  those  who  have  or  claim  to  have  an  interest  in  the  pro- 
perty acquired  through  the  debtor.  Of  course,  a  person  who 
having  or  claiming  to  have  no  such  interest  may  not  be  sued 
in  such  an  action,  but  the  question  of  interest  is  not  to  be 
too  narrowly  scrutinised,  because  the  defendant  is  in  no  way 
prejudiced  by  the  action  so  long  as  no  costs  are  claimed 
against  him  except  in  the  event  of  an  unreasonable  contest 
by  him  of  the  plaintiff's  claim. 

In  the  present  case,  although  2nd  defendant  cannot  be 
said  to  have  title  to  the  properly  mortgaged  by  the  first,  the 
provisions  of  our  Code  of  Civil  Procedure  vest  him  with 
such  an  interest  in  the  property  as  to  give  the  mortgagee  a 
right  to  require  him  to  shew  cause,  if  any,  why  the  property 
should  not  l)e  declared  bound  and  executable  for  the  recovery 
of  the  debt  due  to  him  by  the  mortgagor.  The  property 
has  been  sold  Isy  the  Fiscal  to  the  2nd  defendant;  the  sale 
has  been  duly  confirmed  by  the  court,  and  the  2nd  defen- 
dant may  at  any  moment  by  applying  and  obtaining  the 
usual  Fiscal's  conveyance  make  himself  the  owner  of  the 
property  as  from  the  date  of  the  actual  sale  to  him  by  the 
Fiscal.  To  say  the  least,  it  is,  in  such  a  case,  in  the  highest 
degree  expedient  to  allow  the  mortgagee  to  have  the  2nd  de- 


52  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

fendants'  objections,  if  any,  to  his  prayer  adjudicated  upon 
at  the  earliest  opportunity. 

I  would  set  aside  the  judgment  appealed  from  with 
costs  and  remit  the  case  for  further  proceedings 

Ennis  J. — I  agree. 

Set  aside. 

Proctors  for  appellant.— f/c  Zoyna  a)id  Pcrrra. 
Proctor  for  respondent.— J".  K.  Garroii. 


-:o:- 


WICKREMESEKERE   v.   WIJETUNGE   et  a?. 

No.  21829.   D.   C.   Kandy. 

Present:   Pereira  &  Ennis  J.  J. 

2.Sth  August  1913. 

Donation — deliferij  of  deed  not  nercxxari/ — w/ir/i  donation  may  he 
accepted — acts  of  acceptance — lohetlier  acceptance  xhoidd  he  hy  deed. 

The  delivery  of  a  deed  is  not  essential  for  its  validity  under  our 
law. 

A  donation  may  be  accepted  at  any  time  during  the  life  time  of 
the  donor,  and,  where  its  fulfilment  is  postponed  until  after  the  donor's 
death,  it  may  even  be  accepted  after  the  donor's  death. 

W'ellappur.  Mvdalihami^  followed. 
Silra  r,  Silca-  dissented  from. 

The  delivery  of  the  deed  of  donation  to  the  donee  and  the  subse- 
ment  sale  by  the  donee  of  some  of  the  lands  gifted  are  both  acts  of 
acceptance  of  the  donation. 

Per  Pereira  J. — The  acceptance  of  a  donation  of  land  must  be 
notarially  executed  as  much  as  the  making  of  such  a  donation,  and  the 
acceptance  must  be  by  the  donee  himself  or  some  person  competent  in 
law  to  represent  the  donee  for  the  purpose  of  entering  into  contracts. 
But  it  has  been  held  in  a  long  series  of  decisions  that,  in  the  case  of  a 
donation  of  land,  while  the  donor's  part  of  the  contract  should  be  exe- 
cuted as  required  by  Ordinance  No  7  of  1840,  the  execution  of  the 
donee's  part  of  the  contract  may  follow  the  Roman-Dutch  Law,  in 
other  words,  that  the  acceptance  of  a  gift  by  the  donee  may  be  effec- 
ted in  any  one  of  the  many  ways  laid  down  in  the  works  on  the 
Roman-Dutch  law.  The  decisions,  I  think  have  led  to  some  con- 
fusion and  uncertainty  in  the  law  but  I  think  it  would  be  inexpedient 
to  question  their  correctness  at  this  time  of  day  and  that  they  should 
as  far  as  practicable  be  followed. 

1,     6  N,  L,E.  SSS,  386.         2,     UN.  h.  H.  161, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  53 


Wijetunge 


The  plaintiff  sued  his  daughter,  the  1st  defendant  and  ^^g^e?^*' 
her  husband,  the  2nd  defendant,  for  a  declaration  of  title  ^^^  v. 
to  a  land  called  Kirivanagodahena,  for  ejectment  and  for  the 
cancellation  of  deed  of  gift  No.  i;503,  dated  13th  March  1809, 
executed  by  him  in  favour  of  the  1st  defendant.  He  alleged 
that  although  the  said  deed  of  gift  was  signed  by  him  it  was 
not  completed  by  delivery  and  acceptance  and  that  all  the 
lands  donated  by  it  were  always  in  his  possession.  Hi^ 
grievance  was  that  in  March,  1912,  the  defendants  forcibly 
took  possession  of  Kirivanagodahena.  The  1st  defendant 
traversed  the  above  allegations  and  stated  that  on  her  wed- 
ding day  the  plaintiff  delivered  over  the  deed  to  her  and 
that  she  accepted  and  kept  it  in  an  almirah  in  the  parental 
house  wherefrom  the  plaintiff  abstracted  it  in  or  about  the 
year  1910.  The  learned  District  Judge  of  Kandy  {F.  R 
Bias  Enq  .-)  held  that  the  said  deed  of  gift  was  duly  accepted 
by  the  1st  defendant  and  dismissed  the  plaintiff's  action. 
The  plaintiff  appealed. 

F.  M.  de  Sarain  for  the  appellant. — The  deed  of  dona- 
tion is  invalid  as  it  was  not  accepted  by  the  donee  at  the  date 
of  its  execution.  Acceptance  must  be  present  and  imme- 
diate and  not  at  some  future  indefinite  time  (Voct 
39.  5.  2.,  Sampayd's  franslatii)ii  p.  6  §-5  ;  Silva  r.  SUva).  * 
\_Per('ira  J.  Should  not  acceptance  be  by  deed  ?]  A  dona- 
tion of  land  being  a  contract  affecting  land  {WfUapjm  r. 
MKclaliltamy)^-  acceptance  should  be  by  deed.  It  is  only 
when  a  donation  is  perfected  by  delivery  that  clom  in  ion 
passes  (Voet  39.  5  19.)  In  this  case  there  is  no  evidence  of 
of  delivery  of  the  deed,  or  of  possession. 

J.  W.  de  Silva  for  the  respondent. — It  is  not  essential 
nor  necessary  that  acceptance  must  be  present  and  imme- 
diate. A  minor  may  accept  a  donation  made  to  him  on  at- 
taining majority  {2  Nathan  p.  1024  \l081 ;  Ynct  39.  S.  13 
Sampayo's  tranmlatiun  p.  17  ;  Afff/udfrii  v.  Pcriyatamhy  ;  ^ 
T'issera  v.  Tissera).  ^  None  of  the  decisions  say  that  accep- 
tance must  be  by  deed.  [Pe/vi/ri  J. — The  effect  of  Ordinance 

1.  11  N.  L.  E.  161.         3.     12  N.  L.  R.  313. 

2.  0  N,  L.  R.  233,  236.         2.     S.  C.  D.  36. 


54  C'OirnT     OF     APPEAL     CASF.8 

Wickreme-  7  ^f  ]  ^40  does  not  seeiH  to  liave  been  considered  in  those  deci- 

V.         sions].     In  TilMiT/rdiit' r.  Tennehvun'^  itwas  held  that  Ordi- 

Wijetunge  ^^^^^  ^  ^^  ^^.^^^^  ^^Ydch  is  substantially  re-enacted  in  Ordinance 

Pereira  J.  7  of  1840  with  regard  to  contracts  affecting  land,  did  not  require 

the  acceptance  of  a  donation  of  land  to  appear  on  the  face  of 

the  deed.     In  this  case  the  donee  has  possessed  the  property 

and,  in  fact,  dealt  with  a  poi'tion  of   it,  and   it   is  submitted 

that  these  are  sufficient  tokens  of  acceptance  (see  (i.  A.  S.  P. 

V.  Ctn'oJis.)- 

F.  J/,  di'  Sdirim  in  reply. 

r.  a.  !'. 

Pereira  J. — The  main  issue  in  this  case  is  the  2nd, 
namely,  whether  the  execution  of  the  document  dated  the 
l."5th  March,  1SG9,  purporting  to  be  a  donation  by  the  plain- 
tiff to  the  1st  defendant  was  completed  by  delivery,  and 
whether  the  donation  was  accepted  by  the  donee.  As  regards 
delivery  of  the  deed,  I  am  not  prepared  to  say  that  is  essen- 
tial under  our  law.  As  explained  by  Morice  in  his  work  on 
English  and  Roman-Dutch  Law  {2 ml  Ed.,  ]>.  83,)  while  a 
deed,  in  its  English  meaning,  acquires  validity  by  being 
sealed  and  delivered  to  the  party  benefited  by  it,  the  deed  of 
Roman-Dutch  Law,  generally  called  a  notarial  deed,  required 
no  delivery  for  its  validity.  So  that,  the  only  question  in- 
volved in  this  case  practically  is  whether  the  donation  re- 
ferred to  above  was  duly  accepted  by  the  donee.  I  may  at 
the  very  outset  say  that,  in  my  own  opinion,  the  acceptance 
of  a  donation  of  land  must  be  notarially  attested  as  much  as 
the  making  of  such  a  donation,  and  the  acceptance  must  be 
by  the  donee  himself  or  some  person  competent  in  law  to 
represent  the  donee  for  the  purpose  of  entering  into  con- 
tracts. In  Wi'lhippn  r.  JfudriJi/iamP  Layard  0.  J.  citing 
Vdct  39.  ■',,  12.  IS  observed — "The  rule  of  law  which  re- 
"quires  acceptance  by  a  competent  person  of  a  gift  is  based  on 
the  principle  that  a  donation  is  a  contract,  and  there  must 
"  be  two  parties  to  every  contract."  Jimi.'^doi'jj  in  his  Jus/i- 
(ufr.s  of  Cfijir  Lair  {Vul  III.  ji/i.  89.  92)  says  :— "  A  donation 
"is  an  agreement  ^vhereby  a  person  wthout  being  undei'  any 
1.     Bam.  flS43-4.-,)  p.  1S5.  2.     N.  L.  R.  72. 

3.     0,  N.  L.  B.  233,  236. 


COURT  OV    APPEAL  CASES.  55 

"  obligation  to  do  so,  gives  something  to  anotlier  without  re-  Wickreme- 
J  J  sciccr© 

ceiving  or  stipulating  anything  in  return    .         .         .         .         v.    ' 

"  Acceptance  bj-  the  donee  or  by  some   one  duly   authorised      '^^  ""^^ 
"  on  his  behalf  is  an  essential  ingredient    in   the  constitution  FereiraJ. 
"  of  a  valid   do]iatit)n,  the  consent  of  both  parties  beitig  re- 
quired  in   donation  as   in   all  other   contracts."      If   then, 

donation  is  a   conti'act   entei'ed   into   by  two  parties,  it  is  es- 

* 
sential  that  the  execution  of  the  contract  by  Ijoth  the  parties 

should  be  effected  in  the  manner  required  by  the  law  for 
the  time  being.  Whatever  form  acceptance  of  a  donation  by 
the  donee  might  ha^'e  taken  under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law 
our  Ordinance  No.  7  of  LS4()  provides  (§2)  that  a  contract 
for  the  transfer  of  land  shall  be  in  wi'iting  and  signed  by  the 
party  (or  parties)  making  the  same  in  the  presence  of  a 
licensed  Notary,  and  two  or  more  witnesses  :  and  so,  it  is 
clear  that  a  donation  of  land,  to  lie  valid  under  our  law,  must 
be  executed  by  both  the  parties  to  the  contract  in  the 
manner  indicated  a))ove.  But  it  has  been  held  in  a  long 
series  of  decisions  that,  in  the  case  of  a  donation  of  land, 
while  the  donor's  part  of  the  contract  should  be  executed  as 
required  by  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1S4(J,  the  execution 
of  the  donee's  part  of  the  contrac  may  follow  the  Roman- 
Dutch  Law,  in  other  words,  that  the  accept;iiice  of  a  gift  Ijy 
the  donee  may  lie  effected  in  any  one  of  the  man.\-  ways  laiil 
down  in  the  works  on  the  Roman-Dutch  Liw.  The  decisions 
I  think,  have  led  to  some  confusion  and  uncertainty  in  the 
law,  but  I  think  that  it  would  be  inexiiedii'nt  to  (piestion 
their  correctness  at  this  time  of  day,  antl  that  they  should  as 
far  as  practicable  be  followed. 

Counsel  for  the  appelhmt  has  cited  the  ease  of  Siira  v. 
Silni^  in  support  .of  his  contention  tliat  even,  under  the 
Rou)an-Dutch  Law,  in  the  case  nf  a  donation  to  a  minor, 
there  should  be  a  present  acceptance  of  the  gift  by  the  na- 
tural or  legal  guaidian  of  the  minor  antl  not  an  aeuejitance  at 
some  future  indeiinite  time  by  the  minor  himself  after  he 
has  attained  majority.     The  substantive   decision  in  the  case 

;.    11  X.  L.  K.  ItJl, 


56        COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Wickreme-  jg  that  an  uncle  of  a  minor  is  not  a  competent  party  to  act 

V.         for  him  in  accepting  a  donation,  and  the  dictum  relied  on  by 

Wijetunge  the  appellants   counsel  is  no  more  than  mere  obiter,  and  I 

Ennii  J.  confess  I  have  failed  to  find  any  authority  in  support  of  it- 
In  the  case  cited  above  of  Welhijipa  v.  Mvdalihami^  Layard 
C.  J.  observed;  "To  perfect  a  deed  of  gift  in  favour  of  a 
"minor  there  must  be  an  acceptance  by  some  one  capable  of 
"acceptijig  on  behalf  of  the  minor  or  by  the  minor  upon 
"attaining  the  age  of  majority."  And  it  is,  I  think,  clear 
from  -what  appears  in  Vod  SO-5-13,  Grotins  3-2-12  and 
Maasdofji's  Inntitutcn  Vol.  III.  ji.  90  that,  under  the  Roman- 
Dutch  Law,  a  donation  may  be  accepted  at  any  time  during 
the  lifetime  of  the  donor,  and  where  its  "fulfilment  is 
postponed  until  after  the  donor's  death,"  it  may  even  be 
accepted  after  the  donor's  death. 

In  the  present  case,  the  evidence  shews  that  there  were 
at  least  two  distinct  acts  of  acceptance  by  the  1st  defendant 
of  the  donation  in  question.  It  appears  that  on  the  wedding 
day  of  the  1st  defendant  the  plaintiff  delivered  over  to  her 
the  deed  of  donation,  and  that  she  then  accepted  the  same. 
Although,  as  I  have  observed,  the  delivery  of  the  deed  was 
not  essential  to  complete  the  transaction,  it  has  significance 
here  as  a  token  of  acceptance  of  the  gift.  Moreover  the  1st 
defendant  sold  a  half  of  three  of  the  lands  gifted  to  her  hus- 
band before  the  commencement  of  the  present  action.  That 
also  was  clearly  an  act  of  acceptance  of  the  donation.  For 
these  reasons  I  see  no  grounds  for  interfering  with  the 
judgment  appealed  from,  and  I  would  affirm  it  with  costs. 

Ennis  J. — I  agree.  I  am  however  not  prepared  with- 
out further  consideration  to  assent  to  the  opinion  that  sec- 
tion 2  of  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840  requires  Ijoth  parties  to 
sign  a  deed  of  gift. 

Affirmed. 

Proctor  for  appellant.— C.   Vandcrwall. 

Proctor   for   respondents.— G^w/U'«'arc/tvie   iDul 

Wijcguncwankne. 
1.     6  X.  L.  a.  2SS,  236, 


COURT    OF    APPEAL  CASES.  57 

FERNANDO   v.   BUYZER. 

No.  34370  C.  R.  Colombo. 

Present:  Pereira  J. 

16th   September,    1913. 

Promi-isorij  note — cumlderatwii — compounding  coiiipoiindahle  offence. 

A  promissory  note  granted  for  compounding  a  criminal  prose- 
cution that  is  compoundable  in  law  cannot  be  said  to  be  a  note  for 
illegal  consideration. 

Saiio  c,  Carpen  Chettij'^  followed. 

This  is  an  appeal  from  a  judgment  of  the  commissioner 
of  Requests,  Colombo  {P.  E.  Picris  Esq:) 

de  Jung  for  the  appellant. — The  consideration  for  the 
note  was  the  withdrawal  of  a  criminal  prosecution.  The 
note  cannot  therefore  be  sued  upon  (see  Ismail  v.  Carulis 
Appii)}  [Pereira  J.  That  decision  applies  only  to  the  com- 
pounding of  a  non-compoundable  case.]  A  promise  made 
for  the  purpose  of  stifling  any  criminal  prosecution  is 
unenforceable  (see  Silva  v.  Dias)? 

W.  H.  Perera  for  the  respondent  was  not  called  upon. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira  J. — In  this  case  the  question  is  whether  a  pro- 
misory  note  granted  to  the  plaintiff  for  compounding  a 
criminal  prosecution  that  was  compoundable  in  law  can  be 
said  to  be  a  note  for  illegal  consideration.  The  Commissioner 
says  that  there  are  conflicting  local  authorities,  and  following 
the  opinion  of  Middleton  J.  in  a  case  reported  in  the  Leader 
Law  Repo)is  (Vol.  6  2^.  117.)  he  holds  that  the  consideration 
is  not  illegal.  I  am  quite  at  one  with  the  commissioner  in  the 
decision  that  he  has  arrived  at.  As  a  general  rule  the 
proposition  that  it  is  illegal  to  compound  a  criminal  charge 
is,  no  doubt,  correct,  and  some  of  the  locally  reported  cases 
are  cases  involving  offences  that  are  not  compoundable  in 
law  or  cases  instituted  before  the  passing  of  the  Criminal 
Procedure  Code  whereby  certain  petty  offences  were  expressly 

1.    5  Leader  in.  2.    5Bal.3, 


Pereira  J. 


58  COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 

Fernando  made  compoundable.     The    offence  of  voluntarily   causing 
Buyzer     hurt,    an     oifence   punishable   under    §    314  of  the  Penal 
Code,  Avith  which  we  are  now  concerned,  is  expressly  made 
compoundable  by  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code. 

"To  compound  a  felony,"  says  Webster,  is  to  accept  of 
"a  consideration  for  forbearing  to  prosecute."  The  meanings 
given  by  Stroud  in  his  Law  Dictionary  are  very  much  to 
the  same  effect.  If  then  a  sum  of  money  may  be  received 
for  compounding  a  compoundable  offence,  I  fail  to  see  why 
the  acceptance  of  a  promissory  note  for  the  same  purpose 
can  be  said  to  be  illegal.  No  question  of  public  policy  is 
involved  here.  Considering  the  trifling  nature  of  certain 
offences  the  Legislature  has  legalized  the  acceptance  by  the 
party  injured  of  some  consideration  for  forbearance  to  pro- 
secute. 

I  affirm  the  judgment  appealed  from  with  costs. 

Affirmed. 

Proctor  for  appellant — »S'.  Ratnasiminy. 

Proctor  for  respondent. — J.  Leopold  Perera. 


-:o:- 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  39 

ADAKAPPA  CHETTY  v.  RAMBUKPOTHA 
No.   2624  D.   C.  Badulla. 
Present:   Pereira  &  de   Sampayo  J.  J. 

13th  June   1913. 

JuiJffes,  duty  of — observations  as  to  improjiiiety  of  allowiruj  2>ersonal 
knowledge  of  eharaeter  of  litigants  to  interfere  with  judgments. 

Judges  should  not  allow  opinions  formed  as  to  the  character  of 
persons  who  frequently  appear  before  them  as  litigants,  to  interfere 
with  their  judgment  in  proceedings  having  no  connection  whatever 
with  those  in  which  the  opinions  were  formed. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene  (with  E.  G.  P.  Jayetileke)  for 
the  appellant. 

/.  W.  de  Silva  for  the  respondent. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira  J. — The  District  Judge  in  his  judgment  says. — 
"I  have  had  considerable  experience  of  him  (meaning  the 
plaintifE)  in  this  court.  He  has  brought  at  least  three  ac- 
tions before  me,  in  every  one  of  which  I  have  been 
convinced  of  his  dishonesty."  For  this  and  certain  other 
reasons  he  proceeds  to  say. — "I  have  no  hesitation  at  all  in 
declaring  that  I  consider  him  to  be  a  thorough-paced  rogue 
and  swindler."  These  latter  are,  indeed,  to  say  the  least, 
strong  words  to  be  used  against  any  person  seeking  an 
adjudication  on  rights  claimed  by  him  before  a  court  of 
justice,  and  they  are  words  such  as,  in  my  opinion,  should 
not  be  allowed  to  disfigure  a  record  unless  they  are  wholly 
and  solely  justified  by  the  evidence  led  in  the  particular 
judicial  proceeding  in  which  they  are  used,  that  is  to  say,  by 
the  evidence  of  witnesses  whom  the  party  attacked  has  had 
an  opportunity  of  cross-examining  in  that  proceeding.  Later 
on  in  his  judgment  the  District  Judge  says  that  he  views  the 
promissory  note  sued  upon  with  grave  suspicion  and  adds. — 
"This  suspicion  is  increased  to  certainty  by  my  experience 
of  plaintiff's  character  and  methods  to  which  I  have  already 
referred."     Objection    has  been  taken    by  the  appellant's 


<30  COUET  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

'^Chett'^^  counsel  that  the  learned  judge  has  imported  into  this  case 

V.         opinions  formed  by  him  of  his  client  in  other  proceedings 

p™  ha  "    ^iid  that,  therefore,  his  client  has  not  had  the  advantage  of 

,    „  an  unfettered  judgment  on  the  facts  of  this  case.     Of  course 

dc  aampayo 

J.  it  often  happens  that  judges  are  led  into  forming  strong 
opinions  of  the  character  of  persons  who  frequently  appear 
before  them  as  litigants,  but  at  the  same  time  judges  are,  as 
a  rule,  able  to  resist  the  temptations  to  allow  opinions  so 
formed  to  interfere  with  their  judgment  in  proceedings 
having  no  connection  whatever  with  those  in  which  the 
opinions  were  formed.  In  the  present  case,  the  learned 
District  Judge  has  not  only  not  been  able  to  resist  this 
temptation,  but  he  has  deliberately  allowed  his  judgment  to 
be  warped  by  his  knowledge  of  the  plaintiff  acquired  by 
means  other  than  the  evidence  led  in  the  case.  I  would 
quash  the  proceedings  from  the  commencement  of  the  trial 
to  judgment  and  remit  the  case  to  the  court  below  for  a 
new  trial.  All  costs  should,  I  think,  abide  the  event. 
There  is  no  necessity  for  the  transfer  of  the  case  to  another 
court  as  I  understand  that  the  court  to  which  the  case  be- 
longs is  now  presided  over  by  another  judge. 

de  Sampayo  J. — I  agree. 


Proceedings  qvashed. 


Proctors  for  appellant— JEf.  J.  Pinto  and 

A.  G.  W.  Samarakuon. 
Proctor  for  respondent. — F.  Taldoia. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  61 

In  the   Matter  of  the   Intestate  Estate  of  the  late 

Viravy   Thampiah. 

VAIRAVY  KARTRIGE&V— added  respondents-appellants. 

V. 

MUREGAR  SYiLLA-FPATI—administratoi'-respondent. 

No.   24G1.  D.   C.  Jaffna. 

Present:  Pereira  &  de   Sampayo  J.  J. 

22nd   September   1013. 

ApjyealaMe  ovdo — Inqwlvy  into  objPctiv?ts  to  items  hi  aceount  filed  hi/ 
adniiniKtratw — ordey  made  with  reference  to  some  objec.'iuns — adjournment 
of  inquiry — lohether  appeal  lies  from  the  order  already  made. 

The  District  Judge  commenced  an  inquiry  into  objections  taken 
to  certain  items  in  an  account  filed  by  the  respondent  as  administra- 
tor and  made  bis  order  with  reference  to  some  objections  and  ad- 
journed the  inquiry  pending  the  filing  by  the  administrator  of  a 
certain  account  necessary  to  enable  him  to  adjudicate  upon  certain 
other  objections. 

IMd,  that  an  appeal  from  the  decisions  recorded  by  the  District 
Judge  on  the  objections  already  dealt  with  by  him  is  premature. 

de  Costa  r.  Silea^  followed. 

The  administrator  filed  an  affidavit  stating  the  liabili- 
ties of  the  estate  and  applied  for  the  leave  of  Court  to  sell 
one  of  the  lands  mentioned  in  the  inventory.  The  appel- 
lants, who  are  heirs  of  the  deceased,  filed  a  statement  of 
objections  to  the  said  affidavit  denying  that  most  of  the 
items  disclosed  therein  were  due  from  the  estate  and  stating 
that  the  administrator  had  not  accounted  for  the  produce  of 
the  lands  mentioned  in  the  inventory.  An  inquiry  was 
held  and  the  learned  District  Judge  (Jf.  *S'.  Pinto  Esq:)  on 
the  3rd  July,  1913  made  an  order  allowing  certain  of  the 
items  mentioned  as  due  from  the  estate  and  declaring  that 
the  administrator  is  not  liable  to  render  an  account  of  the 
produce  of  the  first  land  mentioned  in  the  inventory  as  the 
said  land  was  held  by  the  deceased  merely  as  a  trustee  for 
one  Vairavy;  he  adjourned  the  enquiry  with  reference  to  the 
other  objections  till  the  17th  July,  1913  so  that  the  adminis- 
trator might  produce  a  statement  showing  what  income  had 

1.     IC.A.C.ISS, 


02         COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

In  re  been  derived  from  another  land.  The  present  appeal  was 
Tharaplah  taken  against  the  decisions  of  the  District  Judge  on  the  ob- 
p     .     J    jections  dealt  with  by  him. 

E.  G.  P.  Jayetileke  for  the  administrator-respondent 
took  a  preliminary  objection.— The  appeal  in  this  case  is  pre- 
mature. The  District  Judge  made  no  order  as  regards  the 
application  for  leave  to  sell  one  of  the  lands.  He  expressed 
his  decision  on  some  of  the  objections  and  adjourned  the 
enquiry  for  another  date.  In  fact,  he  has  not  entered  any 
appealable  order  as  yet.  His  decision  may  pave  the  way  for 
an  order  in  the  future,  and  until  a  formal  order  is  made  no 
appeal  lies.    The  case  of  de  Losta  v.  Silva^  is  on  all  fours. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene  (with  Talaimsincjham)  for  the 
appellants.— The  Judge  has  held  that  one  of  the  lands  men- 
tioned in  the  inventory  does  not  form  part  of  the  estate  of 
the  deceased,  and  that  the  deed  in  respect  of  that  land  in 
favour  of  the  deceased  is  a  deed  of  trust.  We  are  entitled  to 
appeal  against  this  finding.  If  no  appeal  lies  at  this  stage, 
the  proper  course  would  be  not  to  dismiss  the  appeal  but  to 
allow  it  to  stand  over  until  the  District  Judge  gives  his  de- 
cision on  the  other  objections. 

Pereira  J. — I  do  not  think  that  this  appeal  should  be 
entertained.  The  District  Judge  commenced  an  inquiry 
into  objections  taken  to  certain  items  in  an  account  filed  by 
the  respondent  as  administrator  of  the  estate  of  the  deceased 
Vairavy  Thampiah  and  he  made  his  order  with  reference  to 
some  objections  and  adjourned  the  inquiry  pending  the  fil- 
ing by  the  administrator  of  a  certain  account  necessary  to 
enable  the  District  Judge  to  adjudicate  upon  certain  other 
objections.  The  appeal  is  from  the  decisions  recorded  by 
the  District  Judge  on  the  objections  already  dealt  with  by 
him.  The  appeal  is  premature.  It  will  be  inconvenient 
and  inexpedient  to  dispose  of  a  case  piecemeal  in  the  man- 


1.     C.  A.  C.  128. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  C3 

ner  suggested  by  the  appellant.  The  observations  of  the 
Chief  Justice  against  the  expediency  of  the  appeal  in  the 
case  of  de  Gosta  v.  Silvri}  apply  with  great  force  to  the  pre- 
sent appeal.     I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

de  Sampayo  J. — I  agree. 

Appeal  dism  isscd. 

Proctor  for  appellant— i^.  Slvaprakasam. 
Proctor  for  respondent — T.  S.  Cooke. 


-:o:- 


ADAKAPPA  CHETTY    r.  FERNANDO   et  al. 

No.   11159   C.   R.   Negombo. 

Present:  Ennis  J. 

13th  March  1913, 

ApplicatiiDi  to  certifij  paymi'iit — discretion  if  court — questio/t  of  fact 
— m>  appeal  lies  without  leave  of  court  of  Requests. 

The  question  whether  not  an  application  under  §  349  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code  to  cause  payment  to  be  certified  should  be  entertained 
or  rejected  being  one  in  the  discretion  of  the  Court  on  the  facts  in 
each  particular  case,  no  question  of  law  is  involved  and  no  appeal 
lies  without  the  permission  of  the  Commissioner  of  Requests. 

Sandrasegra  for  the  appellant 

de  Zoysa  for  the  respondent. 

c.  a,  V. 
Ennis  J. — This  was  an  appeal  from  an   order  directing 
satisfaction  of  judgment  to  be  certified  and  it  was  contended 
that  on  the  authority  of  the  case  cited  in  {2  Browne  269) 
the  application  should  have  been  refused. 

Counsel  for  the  respondents  cited  another  case  (5 
Brownr  273). 

Considering  both  these  cases  I  am  of  opinion  that  the 
question  as  to  whether  or  not  an  application  under  §   319  of 
the  Civil  Procedure  Code  to  cause  judgment  to  be  certified 
1.     1  C.  A.  C.  128. 


C4  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES 

should  be  entertained  or  rejected  is  one  in  the  discretion  of 
the  court  on  the  facts  in  each  particular  case. 

This  being  so,  no  question  of  law  is  involved  in  this 
case  and  no  appeal  lies  witout  the  permission  of  the  Court  of 
Requests.     The  appeal  is  dismissed  with  costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  appellant — C.  J.  Edirisinlie. 

Proctor  for  respondent — H.  A.  Jayetilelce. 


LIVERA   V.   GONSALVES 

No.   20,357   C.    R.   Negombo. 

Present:   Wood  Renton,  A.  C.  J. 

•Sth  August   1913. 

MarHarje  hrojteraije  voiiti-iict — ivlief/ier  enforceahle  hij  action. 

The  plaintiff  sought  to  recover  a  sum  of  Rs.  300  from  the  defen- 
dant on  an  agreement  in  writing  by  the  latter  to  pay  him  that  amount 
if  he  succeeded  in  bringing  about  a  marriage  between  him  and  a  cer- 
tain lady  who  was  named  in  the  agreement  with  a  dowry  of  Rs.  5000. 

Held  that  the  contract  which  formed  the  subject  of  the  suit  was 
a  marriage  brokerage  contract  and  that  an  action  could  not  be  main- 
tained upon  it. 

E.  W.  Jayewardene  for  the  plaintiff-appellaiit.  An 
action  for  marriage  brokerage  can  be  maintained  under 
Roman-Dutch  Law.  A  reward  promised  for  the  purpose  of 
bringing  about  a  marriage  cannot  be  said  to  be  founded  on 
immoral  cause  or  consideration  {V.  d.  K.  482).  In  Ceylon  it 
is  quite  a  common  custom  to  employ  brokers  for  the  purpose 
of  arranging  marriages  and  to  pay   them. 

de  Zoysa  (with  E.  T.  de  Silva)  for  the  defendant- 
respondent.  —The  absence  of  any  decisions  shews  that  the 
Roman-Dutch-Law  on  this  point  has  not  been  adopted  in 
Ceylon.   According  to  English   Law  a  marriage  brokerage 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  65 

contract   is  void  as  being  contrary  to   public  policy     {See     Livera 

Hermann  v.  Charlesirarth^  ).   What  is  against  public  policy  Gonsalves. 

in   English    Law   is   against   public  policy  under   our   law. 

The   principle   of   absolute   privilege   in    English    Law    of        !„„_ 

statements  made  by  a  witness  in  the  box  has  been  recognised      A.C.J. 

by  us,  and  there  is  every  reason  for  us  to  adopt  the  English 

Law  on  this  point  too. 

A\  W.  Jayaivardene  in  reply. 

c.  n.  V. 

A.  R.  H.  Canekeratne  as  amicus  curiae  referred  his 
Lordship  to  Kiyig  v.  Grey? 

Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J. — The  plaintiff  in  this  case 
seeks  to  recover  a  sum  of  Rs.  300  from  the  defendant  on 
an  agreement  in  writing  by  the  latter  to  pay  him  that 
amount  if  he  succeeded  in  bringing  about  a  marriage 
between  him  and  a  certain  lady,  who  is  named  in  the  agre- 
ment,  with  a  dowry  of  Rs.  5000.  The  plaintiff  was  success- 
ful in  bringing  about  the  marriage.  He  now  seeks  to  recover 
the  stipulated  consideration.  The  learned  Commissioner 
has  dismissed  the  action,  holding  that,  because  the  original 
written  agreement  was  not  properly  stamped  and  is  lost,  the 
claim  must  be  considered  as  one  on  an  unwritten  promise, 
and  that  it  is  now  barred  by  prescription.  I  do  not  consider 
it  necessary  to  express  an  opinion  on  this  point,  because  I 
think  that  the  appeal  must  fail  upon  another  ground.  The 
contract  which  forms  the  subject  of  the  suit  is  clearly  one 
that  would  be  described  in  English  law  as  a  mari'iage  broker- 
age contract,  and  in  England  no  action  of  this  kind  could 
be  successfully  maintained — see  the  case  of  Hermann  v. 
Charlesu'uiih  ^  .  The  defendant  raised  in  his  answer  the 
plea  that  the  action  was  not  maintainable  in  Ceylon.  But  the 
Commissioner  of  Requests  has  overruled  that  contention  on 
the  strength  of  a  statement  by  Va7i  der  Keesel  on  the  autho- 
rity of  {Bynkershoek  Quacistioi/ts  Juris  Puhlici,  2  and  G) 
to  the  effect  that  an  agreement  with  a  matrimonial  agent  for 
the  payment  of  a  reward  upon  the  completion  of  a  marri- 
age brought  about  by  his  agent  may  be  enforced  by  an  action 
/.  (1905)  1  K.  B.  D.  24.       2.  1  Tamh.  263.  {Law  Review.) 


66  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

at  law.  There  is  no  reported  case  in  which  that  principle  has 
been  accepted  in  Ceylon,  and  there  are  dicta  in  the  recent 
case  of  Abdul  Hameed  v.  Peer  Cauda,  ^  which  point  strongly 
in  the  contrary  direction.  After  the  conclusion  of  the 
argument  my  attention  was  called  by  Mr.  Caneberatne  as 
amicus  curiae,  and  I  am  indebted  to  the  kindness  of 
Mr.  E.  W.  Jayewardene  for  the  same  reference,  to  the  case 
of  Kwg  V.  Grey  ^  in  which  the  whole  question  is  discussed, 
and  the  conclusion  arrived  at  is  that  such  an  action,  as 
Vandcrkeessel  and  Bynlter shook  contemplated,  could  not  be 
maintained  in  the  courts  of  Cape  Colony.  In  view  of  the 
absence  of  any  direct  authority  to  the  contrary  here  in 
Ceylon,  of  the  dicta  of  Sir  Alfred  Lascelles  and  Sir  John- 
Middleton  in  the  case  of  Ahdul  Hameed  v.  Peer  Cando,^  and 
of  the  decision  in  Kiiig  v.  Grey^  .  I  think  that  we  cannot  do 
better  than  bring  the  law  of  Ceylon  into  line  with  that  of 
South  Africa  on  this  important  question.  I  hold  that  the 
action  is  not  maintainable,  and  the  decision  of  the  Comm- 
issioner of  Requests  must  be  affirmed  with  costs. 

Ap2wal  dismissed. 

Proctor    for    appellant — de  Zoysa  and  Perera. 
Proctor  for  respondent — de  Silva  and  Perera. 


-:o:- 


MEPI  NONA  V.  SILVA. 

No.  11.512  D.  C.  Galle. 

Present :  Wood  Renton,  A.  C.  J.   &  Pereira  J. 

7th  October  1913. 

CiMts — matrimonial  actions — discretion  of  Court — Civil  Procedure 
Code  §  211. 

Section  211  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  gives  a  discretionary 
power  to  the  Court  in  matrimonial  as  well  as  in  other  actions.  The 
old  rule  that  in  an  action  for  divorce  a  vinculo  matrimonii  the  hus- 
band is,  as  a  general  rule,  liable  to  pay  his  wife's  costs  should  be  kept 
in  view  by  Courts  of  justice  in  the  exercise  of  the  discretion  conferred 
by  §  211  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

1.  (,191i:)  14  N.  L.  R.  91.    2.  1  Tamh.  263.  (Law  Review.) 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  67 

Appuliami  r,  Menikahami^  and  Silva  v.  Silta^  followed..  Mepi  Nona 

Arulanandan  for  the  plaintiff -appellant. —The  order       gjj^^ 
condemning  the  wife  in  costs  is  clearly  wrong.     As  a  general 
rule  the  husband  is  liable  to   pay   the    wife's  costs  in  matri-  Wood  Ren- 

ton 

monial  cases  (see  Silva  v.  and  Silvci;^  Ajjpuhami  v.  Mmika-     A.C.J. 
hami^  ). .  This  rule  has  apparently  not  been  brought   to   the 
notice  of  the   Court  in  this  particular  case.    Counsel  also 
argued  the  case  on  the  merits. 

Gooneratne  for  the  defendant-respondent. — The  action 
is  altogether  a  vexatious  and  frivolous  one  and  the  learned 
Judge  has  very  properly  exercised  his  discretioa  in  con- 
demning the  plaintiff  in  costs.  The  rule  referred  to  applies 
only  to  actions  brought  bona  fide  and  on  reasonable  grounds. 

Arulanandan  in  reply. 

Wood  Renton,  A.  C.  J. — This  is  an  action  by  a  wife 
for  divorce  on  the  ground  of  alleged  cruelty  and  malicious 
desertion  of  her  by  her  husband.  The  learned  District  Judge 
has  dismissed  the  action  with  costs.  The  plaintiff  appeals. 
The  dismissal  of  the  action  is,  I  think,  right.  The  evidence 
shows  that  there  had  been  some  quarrel  between  the  plain- 
tiff and  her  husband,  the  defendant,  or  perhaps  only  the 
mother  and  the  sisters  of  the  defendant,  in  regard  to  the 
wife's  jewellery.  The  plaintiff  alleges  that  her  mother-in- 
law  and  sisters-in-law  beat  her,  and  that  their  conduct  to- 
wards her  was  such  that  she  had  no  alternative  except  to 
leave  the  house  where  she  was  then  living  with  her  husband 
and  go  back  to  the  house  of  her  own  father.  The  plaintiff, 
however,  at  the  time  when  she  complained  of  having  been 
assaulted,  showed  no  marks  of  injury,  and,  although  the 
matter  was  mentioned  to  a  peace  officer,  she  did  not  obtain 
a  report  nor  did  she  go  to  Court  to  complain  of  the  assault. 
It  cannot  have  been  very  serious.  Indeed  the  learned  District 
Judge  is  inclined  to  believe  that  it  never  took  place  at  all, 
and  that  it  has  been  added  by  the  plaintiff  to  the  quarrel 
about  the  jewellery.  Even  if  there  was  an  assault,  there  is 
nothing  to  show  that  the  defendant  instigated  it.  He  is 
said  to  have  been  present  on  the  occasion  when  it  took  place, 

1,     8  N.  L.  B.  280.        2.    15  N.  L.  R.  100. 


68  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Wood  Ren 
ton 


Mepi  Nona  but  on  that  point  there  is  ^ery  little  corroborative  evidence 
SiWa  of  the  plaintiff's  story.  The  view  of  the  District  Judge  is 
that  there  had  been  a  quarrel  about  the  jewellery,  that  the 
plaintiff's  father  wished  her  to  go  and  live  with  him,  but 
A-C.J.  that  her  husband,  the  defendant,  naturally  desired  to  have  the 
society  of  his  wife,  and  that  he  never  intended  to  desert  her 
at  all.  The  latter  finding  is  supported  by  proof  that,  after 
the  plaintifE's  confinement,  the  defendant  visited  her  and 
registered  the  birth  of  the  child.  The  defendant  says  in  his 
evidence  that  he  is  prepared  to  find  a  house  for  his  wife 
if  she  will  come  back  and  live  with  him,  and  that  it  is  the 
influence  of  his  father-in-law  alone  that  prevents  her  from 
coming.  In  these  circumstances,  I  entirely  agree  with  the 
District  Judge  that  no  case  for  such  a  remedy  as  dissolution 
of  marriage  has  been   made  out. 

The  only  remaining  question  is  as  regards  costs  although 
the  learned  District  Judge  has  given  judgment  in  favour  of 
the  defendant  with  costs,  he  has  stated  no  reasons  in  sup- 
ported of  this  part  of  his  order.  It  is  settled  now — see  the- 
c&se  oi  Appuhamy  V.  3Ip Rika  Ham il — that  section  211  of 
the  Civil  Procedure  Code  gives  a  discretionary  power  to  the 
Court  in  matrimonial  as  well  as  in  other  actions.  But  in 
that  case  Sir  John  Middleton  pointed  out,  and  there  is  no- 
thing to  the  contrary  in  the  language  of  Sir  Alfred  Lascelles 
C.  J.  that  although  this  is  the  effect  of  section  211,  the  old 
rule,  affirmed  by  my  brother  Pereira  in  a  judgment,  assented 
to  by  Sir  Charles  Layard,  in  Silva  v,  Silva^  that  in  an 
action  for  divorce  a  viricido  matrimonii,  the  husband  is  as 
a  general  rule,  liable  to  pay  his  wife's  costs  should  be  kept 
in  view  by  Courts  of  justice  in  the  exercise  of  the  discretion 
conferred  by  section  211  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  I  am 
by  no  means  satisfied  that  the  learned  District  Judge  had 
his  attention  called  to  the  question  of  costs  at  all  or  that  he 
did  not  make  the  order  under  the  impre-sion  that  here,  as 
elsewhere,  costs  follows  the  event.  Apart  from  that,  I  do 
not  think  that,  in  the  special  circumstances  of  this  case,  there 
was  anything  so  frivolous  or  vexatious  in  the  conduct  of  the 
1.     8  N.  L.  H.  380.  2.     15  N.  L.  R.  100. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  69 

■wife  as  to  deprive  her  of  the  benefit  of  the  principle  em- 
bodied in  the  old  rale.  While  diemissing  the  appeal  I  would 
order  that  each  side  should  bear  its  own  costs  of  the  action 
and  of  the  appeal.  Perhaps  this  order  may  have  the  effect 
of  inducing  the  spouses  to  settle  their  differences  and  live 
happily  together  again. 

Pereira  J. — I  agree. 

Appeal  dismissed;  Costs  divided. 

Proctor  for  respondent — O.  E.  Aheyewardene. 


:o:- 


GUNERATNE  v.  ANDRADI  et.  al. 

No.  5161  D.  C.  Kalutara. 

Present :  Wood  Renton,  A.C.J.  &  Pereira,  J. 

9th  October  1913. 

Appeal — undertalting  to  abide  iy  decision  of  Judge — aiMtration  in 
partition  actions. 

The  plaintiff  sued  the  defendants  for  the  partition  of  a  land.  The 
defendants  denied  that  the  plaintiff  had  any  interest  in  the  eastern 
portion  of  the  said  land  and  sought  to  have  it  excluded  from  the  par- 
tition, lu  the  course  of  the  trial  the  plaintiff's  proctor  gave  the  foll- 
owing undertaking  viz,  that  he  was  prepared  to  abide  by  the  decision 
of  the  Court  on  the  question  of  the  interpretation  of  the  documents. 
The  documents  referred  to  were  not  formally  put  in  evidence  but  the 
District  Judge  considered  them  and  made  his  order  holding  that  the 
eastern  portion  of  the  land  must  ba  excluded  from  the  partition. 

JJeld — that  under  ordinary  circumstances  no  appeal  lies  from  an  order 
made  in  pursuance  of  such  an  undertaking  as  was  given  by  the  plain- 
tiff's proctor. 

Peiris  r.  Peiris;^  Baiunhamy  r.  Audi-is  Appu^  followed. 

Seld  further,  that  the  principle  of  Mather  i:  Tliamotheiampillai^ 
does  not  apply  to  such  a  case  as  the  present  where  the  plaintiff  ag- 
reed to  accept  the  decision  of  the  Court  itself  as  binding,  and  when 
the  matter  on  which  the  decision  of  the  Court  was  to  be  so  accepted 
was  only  the  question  whether  on  not  the  plaintiff  had  any  interest 
in  a  particular  portion  of  the   land  in  dispute. 

Mather  i:  Tliamotharampillai^  distinguished. 

1.     (1900)  1  Br.  420.         2.     5  Bal.  89. 
3,     (1903)     6.  N.  L.R.  246, 


70  COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES. 

Guneratne  This  is  an  appeal  from  an  order  of   the   District   Judge 

Andradi    of  Ealutara,  T.  B.  (Eusseil  Esq.) 
'*"'-  E.    a.    p.  Jayetileke,  for  the   8th     added-defendant- 

Wood  Ren-  respondent  took  a  preliminary  objection.— There  is  no  appeal 
A°c  J.  from  the  order  of  the  District  Judge.  The  plaintifE  agreed  to 
abide  by  the  decision  of  the  Judge  on  the  question  of  the 
interpretation  of  the  documents  and  he  thereby  waived  his 
right  of  appeal.  The  learned  Judge  has  referr.-'d  to  several 
documents  in  his  order  which  were  not  formally  tendered 
in  evidence  and  which  he  would  not  have  considered  but 
for  the  plaintiff's  undertaking.  In  giving  his  decision  he  was 
not  acting  judicially  but  was  acting  as  a  quasi-arbitrator. 
Peris  V.  Peris^  and  Bahunhami  v.  Andris  Appv?  are  in  point. 
A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene  for  the  appellant.— The  Proctor 
had  no  special  authority  from  his  client  to  enter  into  such 
an  agreement.  A  Proctor  must  have  a  special  authority 
in  writing  otherwise  the  client  will  not  be  bound  (see  §  676 
Civil  Procedure  Code).  In  the  cases  cited  the  parties  them- 
selves agreed  to  be  bound.  Moreover,  this  is  a  partition  action 
and  the  Court  has  no  power  to  sanction  the  reference  of 
such  an  action  to  arbitration  (see  Mather  v.  Thamo- 
therampillai^ ). 

Batuivantudave,    for  the  1st  defendant-respondent. 
Sansoni,    for  the  5th  and  6th  defendant-respondent. 
Wood  Renton,  A.  C.  J. — This  is  an  action  for  par- 
tition.   The  question  involved  in  the  present  appeal  is  whe- 
ther or  not  the  plaintiff  had  any  interest  in  the  eastern  half 
of  the  land  in  dispute  or  whether  that  portion  should  be  ex- 
cluded from  the  partition  altogether.     "When  the   case   came 
on  for  trial,  the  plaintiff  was  called  and  examined  in  support 
of  his  case,  and  after  the    examination   of   another   witness, 
the    plaintiff's    proctor   gave    the   following    undertaking, 
namely,  that  he  was  prepared  to  abide  by  the  decision  of   the 
Court  on  the  question  of  the  interpretation  of  the  documents. 
A  few  further  questions  were  put   to   the    plaintiff   for   the 
purpose  of  the  elucidation  of  his  title,    and   then  the    whole 
7.     (1900)  1  Br.  480.         2.     5  Bed.  89. 
$,     (.1903)  6  N.  L.  E.  246, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


71 


matter  was    left  to  the  decision   of  the  learned   District 
Judge.     The  documents  referred    to  were    not  formally 
put  in  evidence.     The  District  Judge  considered  them,   and 
then   made    the   order   appealed   against,   holding  that  the 
eastern  portion  of  the  land  must  be  excluded  from  the   par- 
tition.    There  can  be  no  question  but  that  under   ordinary 
circumstances  no  appeal  would  lie  from  an  order  made  in 
pursuance  of  such  an  undertaking  as  was  given  by  the  plain- 
tiff's proctor  in  the   present  action — see  Peris   v.  Pen's,^ 
Bahunhaml  v.  Andris  appu^  and  the  more  recent  case   de- 
cided by  Sir  Alfred  Lascelles  C.J.  and  myself,  82  D-  G.  {In- 
terlocutory) Kalutara  3903^  .      It  is  argued,  however,  that 
the  fact  that  this  is  a  partition  action  makes  a  difEerence,  and 
that  the  case  falls  within  the  ratio  decidendi  of  the    decision 
of  Sir  Charles  Layard,   C.J.,  Mr  Justice  Wendt.  and  Mr. 
Justice  Grenier  in  the   case  of  Mather   v.   Thamotharam 
Pillai^ .  It  was  held  in  that  case  that  the  Court  has  no  power 
either  to  order  compulsorily  the  reference,  or   by   necessary 
implication,  to  sanction  the  reference  at  the  instance  of  par- 
ties, of  a  partition  action  to   arbitration.     The   order   of   re- 
ference in  that  case  appointed   the   arbitrator   to   determine 
"  all  the  said  matters  and  differences  between   the   parties." 
It  was  a  reference  of  the  entire  subject  matter  of  the  suit. 
I  do  not  think  that  the  principle   of   that   decision   in   any 
way  applies  to  such  a  case  as  the  present  where  the  plaintiff 
agreed  to  accept  the  decision  of  the  Court  itself  as   binding, 
and  where  the  matter  on  which  the   decision   of   the   Court 
was  to  be  so  accepted  was  only  the  question  whether  or  not 
the  plaintiff  had  any  interest  in  a  particular  portion   of   the 
land  in  dispute.     I    think   that  the   preliminary    objection 
taken  by  the  respondent's  counsel  to  the  hearing  of  this 
appeal  should  be  upheld,  and  that  the  appeal  should  be  dis- 
missed with  costs. 
Pereira  J. — I  agree 

Appeal  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  appellant — J.  A.  Fernando, 
Proctor  for  1st  deft-respondent — R.  H.  Wijemanne. 
Proctor  for  5th  &  6th  respondent — E.  S.  Edirisinghe. 
Proctor  for  8th  added-def t.  respt. — 0.  G.  de  Alicis. 

L     {1900)  1.  Br.  420.       8.     S.  C.  M.  17th  April,  1913. 
2.     {1910)  5.  Bal.  89.       4.     {1908)  6.  N.  L.  R.  246. 


Guneratne 

V. 

Andradi 

eta  I. 

Pereira  J. 


72  COUET     OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

GOVERNMENT  AGENT,  WESTERN  PROVINCE  v.  HIS 

GRACE  THE  ARCHBISHOP  OF  COLOMBO. 

No.  8905  D.  C.  Negombo. 

Present :  Pereira  &  Ennis,  J.J. 

29th  August  1913 

Land  acquisition  Ordinance  ]\\k  3  of  1876 — isstie  to  he  fried  hi/ 
Court — matters  to  he  considered  in  awarding  compensation — §  21  not  ex- 
hanstite — proper  course  for  assessing  compensation. 

The  issue  that  has  to  be  tried  by  the  Court  in  a  proceeding  under 
the  land  acquisition  Ordinance  is  what  amount  of  compensation  the 
defendant  is  entitled  to  receive  for  the  portion  of  his  land  taken  over 
by  the  Government. 

§  21  of  the  land  acquisition  Ordinance  is  not  exhaustive  of  all  the 
matters  to  be  taken  into  consideration  in  awarding  compensation. 

When  the  matters  mentioned  in  §  31  of  the  Ordinance  do  not 
afford  a  safe  guide  for  assessing  compensation  for  a  portion  of  land 
acquired  by  Government  the  proper  course  would  be  to  find  the  market 
value  of  the  entire  land  and  then  to  estimate  the  value  of  the  por- 
tion of  the  land  taken  at  that  rate. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene  for  appellant. — The  case  has 
proceeded  on  a  wrong  issue.  The  proper  issue  is,  what 
is  the  amount  of  compensation  that  should  be  awarded 
to  the  defendant-appellant.  The  market  value  is  only- 
one  of  the  matters  which  should  be  considered  under 
§  21  in  assessing  compensation.  But  here  the  learned 
District  Judge  has  calculated  the  market  value  of  only 
the  portion  of  the  land  taken.  It  is  submitted  that  this 
is  erroneous.  In  this  case  the  market  value  of  the  por- 
tion taken  cannot  be  said  to  represent  the  actual  amount 
of  compensation  due  to  the  appellant.  The  portion  cut 
off  has  fallen  considerably  in  value  on  account  of  its 
smallness  of  size  and  the  shape  given  to  it.  The  pro- 
per method  of  assessing  compensation  is  to  take  the 
value  of  the  whole  land  and  upon  that  to  calculate  the 
value  of  the  portion  taken.  Govertiment  Acjejit  Kandy  v 
Marikar  Saiho} 

1.     6  S.  C.  D.  36. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


73 


Garvin  A.S.G.  for  respondent. — The  portion  of  land  ^-  A.  W.  P. 

V. 

The  Arch- 


taken  had  no  market  value.  It  is  so  small  in  size  that 
if  offered  for  sale  in  the  market  nobody  would  buy. 
Therefore  the  issue  as  to  the  market  value  of  the  land 
has  been  correctly  framed.  It  is  submitted  that  the 
learned  District  Judge  was  right  in  calculating  the  value 
of  the  portion  taken  irrespective   of   the    value    of    the 

whole  land. 

r.a.v. 

Pereira  J. — This  is  a  proceeding  on  a  libel  of  re- 
ference under  the  land  Acquistion  Ordinance.  What  the 
District  Judge  had  to  decide  is  clearly  indicated  in  section 
17  of  the  Ordinance.  That  section  enacts  "  As  soon  as  the 
assessors  have  been  appointed  the  District  .Judge  and  assess- 
ors shall  proceed  to  determine  the  amount  of  compen- 
sation," meaning,  ofcourse,  the  sum  payable  as  compensation 
to  the  party  whose  land  has  been  acqiiired  under  the  Ordi- 
nance. It  was  hardly  necessary  to  frame  any  issue,  although, 
of  course,  it  was  open  to  the  parties  to  agree  to  any  issue 
or  issues  being  tried.  After  the  minute  as  to  the  assessors 
having  taken  their  oaths,  there  is  the  record  of  an  issue  in 
the  proceedings  which  is  as  follows  : — "  What  is  the  fair 
market  value  of  the  land  to  be  acquired  "  ?  It  does  not 
appear  in  what  circumstances  this  issue  was  framed.  Was 
it  agreed  on  by  the  parties  or  did  the  Court  frame  it  in  terms 
of  the  latter  alternative  mentioned  in  section  146  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code  .?  It  does  not  appear  that  the  parties 
agreed  to  this  issue,  and  if  it  was  framed  by  the  Court,  I 
need  only  say  that  this  was  not  the  issue  that  had  to  be  tried 
by  the  Court.  The  issue  as  clearly  indicated  in  the  Ordi- 
nance was  what  amount  of  compensation  the  defendant  was, 
entitled  to  receive  for  the  portion  of  his  land  taken  over  by 
Government.  Now,  section  21  of  the  Ordinance  specifies 
certain  matters  to  be  taken  into  consideration  in  awarding 
compensation,  but  clearly,  it  is  not  intended  that  the  list 
there  given  should  be  taken  as  exhaustive,  and  it  is  manifest 
that  in  the  case  of  some  of  the  matters  mentioned,  there 
may  be,  in   special  cases,  considerations  (not   mentioned   in 


bishop  of 
Colombo. 


Pereira  J. 


74  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

G.  A.  W.  P.  ti-^e  Ordinance)  that  may  go  a  great  way  to  minimise  their 
The  Arch-  importance.  The  first  matter  mentioned  in  the  Ordinance 
bishop  of  ig  t]ie  market  value  of  the  portion  of  land  acquired.  Now, 
a  portion  of  land  may  be  situated  in  a  most  favourable 
Ennis  J.  position  ;  it  may  be  a  portion  of  an  extent  of  land  of  very 
great  value  ;  but,  in  view  of  the  size  of  the  portion  and  the 
shape  given  to  it  by  Government  in  slicing  it  off  from  the 
rest  of  the  land  for  the  purposes  of  acquisirion,  its  market 
value  may  be  tu'L  In  such  a  case  it  would  be  safer  to 
follow  the  principles  laid  down  by  this  Court  in  the  case  of 
the  Gdi'miiiieiit  Agent  r.  Saihu^  in  assessing  the 
amount  of  compensation  to  be  awarded.  There, 
Middleton  J.  in  a  judgment  acquiesced  in  by  the  Chief 
Justice  says — "  The  proper  course  is  to  find  the  market 
value  as  near  as  it  can  be  ascertained  of  the  entire  land  and 
then  to  estimate  the  value  of  the  portion  of  land  taken 
at  that  rate."  The  test  adopted  by  the  District  Judge  of 
ascertaining  the  market  value  of  the  particular  portion  of 
land  acquired  in  this  case  regardless  of  the  rest  of  the  land 
is  fallacious.  Of  course,  it  may  be  that  a  portion  of  a 
large  extent  of  land  may  be  so  situated  that  its  real  value 
may  not  be  a  proportionate  share  of  the  value  of  the  entire 
land,  but  that  cannot  be  said  of  the  pai-ticular  portion  of 
land  that  has  to  be  dealt  with  in  this  case.  There  is  in  my 
opinion  very  satisfactory  evidence  in  the  case  that  the  mar- 
ket value  of  the  entire  land  is  fifteen  thousand  rupees  an 
acre.  At  that  rate  the  value  of  the  portion  acquired  {2\ 
perches)  would  be  Rs.  2;-34-37.  I  would  set  aside  the, 
judgment  appealed  from  and  enter  judgment  for  the  defen  ' 
dant  for  Rs.  2'')\-'?,l  and  Rs.  GO  as  damages  to  the  parapet 
wall  [total  Rs.  294-;57.]  The  defendant  should,  I  think, 
have   his  costs   iu  both  courts. 

Ennis  J. — I  agree.  The  reference  to  the  District  Court 
was  to  ascertain  the  compensation  to  be  paid  for  "l\  perches 
of  land  compulsorily  acquired.  For  some  unexplained  rea- 
son the  only  issue  framed  was  "What  is  a  fair  market  value 
of  the  land  to  be  acquired  ?  and  it  was  argued  on  appeal  that 
the  evidence  showed  that  the  land  he  acquired  was  so  small 
that  nobody  would  buy  it,  if  offered  in  the  market,  and  that 
therefore  the  land  to  1)0  acquired  had  no  market    value.     It 

/.     G  S.  C.  D.  SG. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  7,5 

is  clear,  however,  that  the  land  had  some  value  or  the  Govern-  Gr.  A.  W.  P. 

V. 

ment  would  not  have  offered  Rs.  93-12  as  its  "market  value."    The  Aroh- 
In  the  circumstances  it  seems  to  me  that  the    only    point   to    coiJ,mbo^ 
be  considered  is  whether  the  value  has  been  appraised   on  a 
fair  basis  irrespective  of  whether  it  is  to  be  regarded  strictly     Ennis  J. 
as  "compensation"  or   as  "market   value."     The   rule  laid 
down  by  Mr.  .Justice  Middleton  in  The  Covernment  Agent  v. 
Sdibai^    appears   to   me   to   be    the   proper  guide   for    the 
ascertainment     of     compensation     in    such   a  case   as   this 
and  that  the  value  should  be  ascertained  by  taking  a  propor- 
tionate part  of  the  market  value  of  the  whole  land  of  which 
it  is  a  part.     Considered  in  this  way  I  fail   to   see   why    the 
land  should  not  be  regarded  as  a  building  site. 

The  Government  assessor  valued  the  entire  land  as  a 
building  site  at  from  Rs.  8000  to  Rs.  9000  per  acre,  but  ad- 
mitted that  in  doing  so  he  did  not  consider  the  value  of 
neighbouring  lands  or  the  prices  realised  by  such  lands  at 
recent  sales.  Mr.  Soysa  gave  evidence  that  he  paid  at  the 
rate  of  Rs.  18000  per  acre  for  similar  land  close  by  but 
thought  he  had  paid  at  the  rate  of  Rs.  1000  more  than  its 
market  value.  He  considered  that  the  laud,  part  of  which 
is  now  to  be  acquired,  was  worth  Rs.  1.5000  per  acre.  Mr. 
Fernando  also  valued  the  land  at  Rs.  15000  per  acre  while 
the  District  Mudaliyar  thought  that  Rs.  10000  per  acre 
would  be  the  value  as  a  building  site.  I  see  no  reason  to 
send  the  case  back  for  the  finding  of  the  District  Court  as 
to  the  value  of  the  entire  land  as  a  building  site.  The 
evidence  in  my  opinion  shows  that  Rs.  5000   per   acre,   the 

rate  claimed,  is  a  fair  valuation. 

Varied. 

Proctor  for  appellant— D.  L.  E.  Amarasinghc. 
Proctor  for  respondant — T.  K.  Carrun. 


1.     6  ;S.  C.  D.  36. 


76  COUET    OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

FERNANDO  v.  PERERA. 
No.  730.  P.  C.  Matale. 
Present :  Wood  Renton,  A.  C.  J. 

30th  October  1913. 

Criminal  Piocedure  Code  §  29e  Cl)—arcimd  undefended— duty  to 
Police  Maijisti-ate  to  e.rj'hiin  main  jioints  urjainxt  him  and  his  right  to  f/ire 
evidence. 

"Where  an  accused  is  not  represented  by  a  pleader  there  must 
be  something  on  the  face  of  the  record  to  show  that  the  provisions  of 
§  296  (1)  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code,  entitling  an  accused  person 
to  be  expressly  informed  of  his  right  to  give  evidence  on  his  own  be 
half  and  as  to  what  are  the  main  points  against  him  were  complied 
with. 

The  facts  appear  in  the  judgment. 

Wadsivorth  for  the  accused-appellant. — When  an  accu- 
sed is  undefended,  §  296  (1)  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code 
says  that  the  Court  shall  inform  him  of  his  right  to  give  evi 
dence  and  shall  call  his  attention  to  the  principle  points  in 
the  evidence.  The  record  does  not  show  that  this  has  been 
done  in  this  case  and  the  accused  alleges  in  his  petition  of 
appeal  that  he  was  prejudiced  by  the  omission  on  the  part 
of  the  Magistrate  to  do  so.  The  accused  is  entitled  to  an 
acquittal. 

Vermin  Greuier  for  the  respondent. — The  accused  ad- 
mits that  he  was  asked  by  the  Police  Magistrate  whether  he 
had  anything  to  add  to  his  original  statement.  It  is  clear 
that  he  had  the  opportunity  of  giving  evidence  even  if  he 
was  unaware  of  his  right.  The  accused  cannot  say  he  was 
prejudiced  because  he  called  some  witnesses  to  prove  his  in- 
nocence. The  absence  of  any  entry  in  the  record  that  the 
provisions  of  §  296  (1)  were  complied  with  is  an  omission 
which  is  cured  by  §  12.5  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code. 
In  any  event,  the  accused  is  not  entitled  to  an  acquittal  as 
the   evidence   discloses   a  pi-iina  facie   case  against  him. 

Wood  Renton,  A.  C.  J. — The  accused  appellant  has 
been  charged  under  section  11  of  Ordinance  No.  11  of  1865 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  77 

first,  with  having  refused  to  work  without  leave   or   reason-    Fernando 

able  cause,  and,  in  the  next   place,   with   having  prevented      Perera 

coolies  from  working  on  the  estate.     The  Police   Magistrate, 

Wood  Ren- 
who  heard  the  case,  convicted  him,    and   sentenced   him  to        ton 

six  weeks  rigorous  inprisoment  on  each  count.  The  senten 
ces  were  directed  to  run  consecutively.  The  evidence,  a 
it  stands,  discloses  a  7^r/Hi« /ac(e  case  against  the  accused 
But  he  alleges  in  his  petition  of  appeal  that  he  was  not  de- 
fended by  a  proctor  at  the  trial,  that  he  was  unaware  of  his. 
right  to  give  evidence,  and  that,  if  he  had  had  the  opportunity 
of  placing  his  version  of  the  circumstances  before  the  Court 
the  result  would  or  might  have  been  very  different.  The 
accused  himself  admits  that  he  was  asked  by  the  Police 
Magistrate  whether  he  had  anything  to  add  to  his  original 
statement  when  charged  There  is  nothing  on  the  face  of 
the  record  to  show  whether  the  provisions  of  section  296  (1) 
of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code,  entitling  an  accused  person 
to  be  expressly  informed  of  his  right  to  give  evidence  on 
his  own  behalf  and  as  to  what  are  the  main  points  against 
him,  were  complied  with. 

In  the  circumstances,  I  think  that  the  accused  is  en- 
titled to  a  new  trial.  I  set  aside  the  conviction  and  the  sen- 
tence, and  send  the  case  back  for  this  purpose.  The  trial 
will,  I  understand,  have  to  take  place  before  another  Judge, 
as  the  original  Judge  of  first  instance  is  no  longer  in  Matale. 
There  can  however,  be  no  objection  to  the  evidence  already 
recorded  standing  so  far  as  it  goes,  if  both  parties  consent  to 
that  course  being  adopted.  It  will,  of  course,  be  open  to 
either  side  to  recall  any  witness  for  further  examination  or 
cross-examination,  and  to  adduce  such  further  evidence  as 
may  be  desired. 

Set  aside  and  sent  hack. 
Proctor  for  appellant. — C.  Anjanaijagam.. 
Proctor  for  respondent. —  IF.  Ponipvus. 


78  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

BACKO  APPUHAMT  v.  PUNCH  A. 

No.  4476  C.  R.  Nuwara  Eliya. 

Prent'ut :  Ennis  J. 

12tli  September  l'J13. 

Bifiht  of  appeal — order  in  rrrieic  of  fa.ration—JinaljiKlrjmeiit  or  order 
/taring  the  effect  of  f  mil  jiidgnieid — Courts  Ordinance  Xo.  1  oj  ISSO  §  SO — 
Civil  Procedure  Code  §§  2IU  and  S31. 

An  app.>al  lies  under  §  314  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  from  the 
decision  of  a  Commissioner  of  Requests  in  review  of  taxation  of  a  bill 
of  costs. 

An  order  in  review  of  taxation  is  not  a  final  judgment  or  order 
having  the  effect  of  a  final  judgment  so  as  to  come  within  the  opera- 
tion of  §  13  of  ordinance  No.  12  of  1895. 

Drie/jrrg  for  respondent. — There  is  no  appeal  in  this 
case.  This  is  an  order  of  the  Court  of  Requests  and  appeals 
from  Courts  of  Requests  are  governed  by  §  80  of  the  Courts 
ordinance  and  §  13  of  the  Courts  of  Requests  ordinance 
No.  12  of  189.5.  An  order  in  review  of  taxation  is  a  final 
order  within  the  meaning  of  §  80  of  the  Courts  ordinance 
and  therefore  no  appeal  lies  except  on  a  point  of  law  or 
with  the  leave  of  the  commissioner. 

J.  W.  de  Sllva  for  appellant. — Section  214  expressly 
gives  an  appeal  from  an  order  in  review  of  taxation.  The 
reference  to  the  chief  clerk  in  the  section  makes  it  clear 
that  the  section  applies  to  Courts  of  Requests  also.  An 
order  under  §  214  is  not  a  final  order  under  §  80  of  the 
Courts  Ordinance.  A  final  order  is  one  which  finally  dis- 
poses of  the  case. 

c.  a.  V. 

Ennis  J. — This  is  an  appeal  under  section  314  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code  on  the  decision  of  the  Commissioner  of 
Requests  in  review  of  taxation  of  the  bill  of  costs.  Ob- 
jection was  taken  that  no  appeal  could  be  maintained. 
The  Courts  Ordinance — section  80 — gives  an  appeal  from 
a  final  judgment.  The  next  ordinance  passed  the  same  year 
(the   Civil   Procedure   Code)    expressly   gives    an  appeal  in 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


79 


section  I)! 4  on  questions  relating  to  the  taxation  of  costs  and 
by  reference  to  tlie  chief  clerk  in  the  section,  the  section 
must  be  held  to  apply  to  Courts  of  Requests.  Ordinance  No 
12  of  1895  limited  the  appeals  given  under  section  80  of 
the  Courts  Ordinance  in  a  certain  way,  and  it  was  urged 
here  that  the  order  appealed  from  is  an  order  having  the 
effect  of  a  final  judgment  under  that  section.  Exactly  what 
the  meaning  of  the  term  "  an  order  having  the  effect  of  a 
final  judgment"  may  be  is  not  clear,  but  I  think  the  words 
mean  something  in  the  nature  of  a  decree  defined  in  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code,  and  have  reference  to  an  adjudication 
which  disposes  of  the  case.  An  order  on  taxation  of  costs 
is  not  final  in  this  sense  and  I  ruled  that  the  appeal  should 
be  heard. 

On  hearing  the  appeal  objection  was  taken  to  5  out  of  9 
decisions  of  the  coramissioner  of  Requests.  Objection  to 
the  1st,  3r(l,  (Jth,  decisions  were  not  pressed.  Objection  on  the 
7th  decision  was  not  seriously  pressed,  but  I  was  requested 
to  say  whether  in  my  opinion  Rs,  1-50  is  the  rate  for  each 
witness  each  time  he  was  present.  I  think  it  is.  Objection 
to  decision  8  with  regard  to  costs  of  second  survey,  I  find 
on  page  39  of  the  Record  when  the  question  of  the  second 
survey  was  being  considered  that  the  commissioner  of  Re- 
quests made  an  order  that  the  costs  of  the  survey  would 
eventually  be  costs  in  the  cause,  and  having  made  that  order 
it  would  seem  that  the  second  sur\'ey  was  necessary,  and  the 
order  should  not  have  been  varied  when  the  question  of 
taxation  of  costs  came  up.  I  think  the  costs  of  both  surveys 
should  have  been  allowed.  Each  side  must  pay  his  own 
costs  of  the  appeal. 

Varied. 

Proctor  for  appellant — G.  F.  Bartholomeufiz. 
Proctor  for  respondant — G.  N.  D.  Jonklass. 


Bacho 
Appuhamy 

V. 

Puncha 
Ennis  J. 


80  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

HENDRICK  V.  SUDRITARATNE. 

No  10794  D.  C.  Galle. 

Present .-   Lascelles,   C.J.   &  Wood   Renton,  J 

28th  November  1912. 

Donation  to  minoi — acceptance,  may  he  by  minor  of  agent— future 
Imslanil  of  minor  an  agent — ddirery  of  deeil—jiresiimption  in  faronr  of 
aceeptanoe. 

Under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  no  particular  form  is  required  for 
the  acceptance  of  the  gift.  It  is  in  every  case  a  question  of  fact 
whether  or  not  there  are  sufficient  indications  of  the  acceptance  by 
the  donee. 

A  deed  of  gift  to  a  minor  may  be  accepted  by  the  minor  himself 
or  through  any  agent  recognised  by  him  for  that  purpose.  The  fut- 
ure husband  of  a  minor  daughter  is  entitled  to  act  as  an  agent  in  that 
behalf. 

Where  a  deed  of  gift  was  delivered  to  the  future  husband  of  the 
donee  on  the  occasion  of  the  marriage  along  with  other  presents. 

Held,  the  inference  is  irresistible  that  the  donee  accepted  the 
deed. 

Per  Lascellei  G.  T,  There  is,  I  think,  a  natural  presumption  in 
all  these  cases  that  the  deed  is  accepted.  Every  instinct  of  human 
nature  is  in  favour  of  that  presumption,  and  I  think  when  a  valuable 
gift  has  been  offered  and  it  is  alleged  it  has  not  been  accepted,  some 
reason  should  be  shown  for  the  alleged   non-acceptance  of  the  deed 

Bawa  for  the  appellant. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene  for  the.  respondent. 

Lascelles,, C.  J. — This  is  a  case  in  which  a  transaction, 
which  is  in  itself  perfectly]' honest,  natural' and  straight- 
forward, is  impugned  on  a  highly  technical  ground.  The 
transaction  in  question  is  a  deed  of  gift  dated  the  27th  Dec 
1900,  by  which  one  Johanes  gifted  to  his  daughter  Elmina 
a  half  share  of  certain  property  on  the  occasion  of[her  mar- 
riage to  the  8th  defendant.  Some  years  after  the  marriage 
Elmina  died,  and  her  only  son  also  died  ;  so  that,  on  the 
footing  that  the  deed  of  gift  conveyed  title,  the  property 
vested  in  the  8th  defendant,  the  husband  of  Elmina.  The 
effect  of  this,   of  course,   is   that   the   property   has   passed 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


81 


entirely  out  of  the  hands  of  the  family  of  the  1st  defendant 
and  her  husband  ;  and  this  is  probably  the  reason  why  the 
1st  defendant  is  now  impeaching  the  validity  of  the  deed. 
The  deed  is  attacked  on  the  ground  that  there  was  no  accep- 
tance on  the  part  of  the  donee  Elmina.  Now,  before  going 
into  the  evidence  on  the  record,  there  are  two  points  which, 
I  think,  ought  not  to  be  passed  over.  There  is  I  think,  a 
natural  presumption  in  all  these  cases  that  the  deed  is  accep- 
ted. Every  instinct  of  human  nature  is  in  favour  of  that 
presumption,  and  I  think  that,  where  a  valuable  gift  has 
been  offered,  and  it  is  alleged  that  it  has  not  been  accepted, 
some  reason  should  be  shewn  for  the  alleged  non-acceptance 
of  the  gift.  It  should  also  be  observed  that,  under  the 
Roman-Dutch  law,  no  particular  form  is  required  for  the 
acceptance  of  the  gift.  It  is  in  every  case  a  question  of  fact 
whether  or  not  there  are  sufficient  indications  of  the  accep- 
tance by  the  donee.  Now,  in  the  present  case,  there  is  evi- 
dence, which  I  see  no  reason  to  disbelieve,  that,  at  the 
marriage,  there  was  an  exchange  of  presents  as  is  usual  in 
such  cases.  The  bridgegroom  received  a  deed,  a  ring  and  a 
sovereign.  There  is  also  evidence  that  the  bride  received 
from  the  bridgegroom  a  chain  and  a  ring.  The  evidence  of 
Hendrick,  of  Sudritliaratne  and  of  Gurusinghe  is  to  this 
effect.  There  is  also  evidence  that  the  deed  was  handed 
over  to  the  defendant.  Now,  if  it  be  true  that  the  deed  was 
in  fact  handed  over  to  the  defendant  in  the  circumstances 
which  I  have  mentioned,  the  inference  is  irresistible  that 
the  donee  accepted  the  deed.  The  case  for  the  respondent 
mainly  rests  on  the  fact  that  the  deed  by  some  means  or 
other  came  into  the  hands  of  the  first  defendant.  In  my 
opinion  her  evidence  as  to  how  she  obtained  possession  of 
this  gift  is  far  from  satisfactory.  It  fails  on  the  most  im- 
portant point.  She  offers  no  explanation  of  her  theory  that 
the  deed  was  not  accepted.  The  deed  was  undoubtedly 
drawn  for  the  purpose  of  the  marriage.  If  it  was  not  accep- 
ted I  should  have  expected  some  reason  for  the  non-accep- 
tance of  the  gift.     But  on  that   point  the   1st  defendant  is 


Hendrick 

V. 

Sudrita- 
ratne 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


g2  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Hendriok  entirely  silent.     She  sayS  that  the  deed  had  always  been   in 
Suiita-   her  possession.     Then  she  goes  on  to  say  that  she  discovered 
ratna     j^  recently  amongst  her  husband's  papers,  and  that  she  found 
Wood  Ren-  the  deed  in  her  almirah  about  three   months   ago,    and   she 
*""'  •'•     thinks  her   husband    had   placed   it   there.     This   evidence 
seems  to  me  to  be  highly  unsatisfactory.     The    case   of   the 
appellant  is  that  the  deed  had  been  taken   recently   by    the 
1st  defendant  for  the  purpose   of   ascertaining   some   boun- 
daries.    This,  I  think,  is  far  more  probable  than   the   some- 
what lame  explanation  given  by  the  1st  defendant.     It  seems 
to  me  that  the  evidence  is  ample  to  prove  the  acceptance  of 
the  gift  by  Elmina,  and  I  would  set  aside  the   judgment   of 
the  Court  below,  so  far  as  it  relates  to  this  issue,  and    direct 
decree  to  be  entered  on  the  footing  that  the  deed  of  gift   to 
Elmina  passed  a  valid  title  to  the  property  comprised  there- 
in.    The  appellant  I  think  is  entitled  to   the    costs    of   this 
appeal,  and  also  to  the    costs   of   the   contest   in   the   Court 
below. 

Wood  Renton  J. — I  entirely  agree,    and  I    will  add  a 
very  few  words.     The  deed  of  gift  was  for  the  minor's  bene- 
fit.    It  was,  therefore,  competent  for  her,  under  the  Roman- 
Dutch  law,  to  accept  it  either  herself  or  through   any   agent 
recognised  by  her  for  that  purpose.     To  my  mind  the   evi-  _ 
dence  shows  beyond  all  reasonable  doubt  that  this  deed  was  ■ 
in  fact  accepted  by  Elmina  either   herself    or   through   her 
future  husband,  the  8th  defendant-appellant,  who   Avas  per- 
fectly entitled  to  act  as  her   agent   in    that   behalf.     Under 
these  circumstances  the  case  comes  directly  within  the  scope 
of  the  decision  in  Bahihamy  v.  Marciuahamy'^ .     The  prin- 
ciple of  the  decision  has  repeatedly   been   applied   in   later 
cases.     The  District  Judge  referred,  in  support  of   his    con- 
clusion that  there  was  no  valid  acceptance  of   this    deed   on 
the  part  of  the  minor   to  the  case  of  Silva    v.   Silvci?  .     The 
facts  of  that  case  are  not  stated   in    detail.     But   it   appears 
from  the  head-note  that  it  was  one  where  there  was  a  future 
acceptance.     In  the  case  before  us  the    acceptance   was   not 
1,     (1908)  11  N.L.  B.  338.         2.     (1908)  11  N.  L.  R,    161, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  83 

future.  Although  under  the  deed  the  donor  retained  a  life 
interest,  there  was  no  room  in  law,  and  there  took  place  in 
fact,  a  present  acceptance  of  the  dominium  which  the  deed 
conferred  subject  to  the  life  interest.  I  may  further  point 
out  that,  even  in  the  cnse  of  Silva  v.  Silva}  ,  it  was  recog- 
nised that  an  acceptance  by  a  person,  who  was  neither  the 
natural  nor  the  legal  guardian  of  the  minor,  would  be  ren- 
dered valid  where  the  subject  of  the  donation  came  into  the 
possession  either  of  the  donee  or  of  his  self-constituted 
guai'dian. 

Set  aside 

Proctor   for     appellant — D.  G.  Goonewardene. 
Pi'octor  for  respondent — A.  D.  Jayasundcre. 


SENARATNE     v.    JANE     NONA. 

No.  5698.  D.  C.  Matara. 

Present:   Lascelles,    C.J.   &   Wood   Renton,  J 

15th  April  1913. 

Projyertij  purchased  intrust — uctioii  for  conmijance — cause  of  action 
—2>rescription—plaintiff  iiipossexsioii  of  pnperttj. 

Plaintiff's  deceased  brother  bought  a  piece  of  land  with  the 
plaintiff's  money  and  on  his  behalf.  The  deed  of  transfer  was 
however  executed  in  the  plaintiff's  brother's  name.  On  the  strength 
of  this  purchase  the  plaintiff  entered  into  possession  of  the  land 
in  1895  and  possessed  it  till  1912,  In  the  latter  year,  on  the  death 
of  the  plaintiff's  brother  the  defendant  as  his  administratrix  in- 
cluded the  said  land  in  the  inventory  of  his  estate.  Plaintiff 
thereupon  alleging  that  the  property  was  purchased  by  the  de- 
ceased in  trust  for  him  sued  the  defendant  for  a  conveyance. 
The  defendant  inter  alia  pleaded  that  the  plaintiff's  cause  of  action 
was  barred  by  prescription  inasmuch  as  the  action  was  not 
brought  within  three  years   of  the   date  of    purchase. 

1.     IIN.L.R.161. 


84  COURT     OP    APPEAL     CASES. 

Senaratne  BeU    that    the    cause    of    action    arose  when  the  property  was 

^-  included  in  the  inventory  and  that  the  action  was  not  barred. 

Jane  Nona. 

Cowyer  r.  Godmond^  followed. 
las^ejlef,  Marthelis  ApiJU  v.  Jayeirardene^  over- ruled. 

Per  LasceUes,  C./.— The  plaintiff  entered  into  possession  with- 
out any  interference  by  his  brother  or  his  representative.  He  had 
obtained  all  that  he  bargained  for.  He  was  in  the  enjoyment 
of  the  right  to  which  he  was  entitled  under  the  arrangement 
effected  between  him  and  his  brother.  It  cannot  I  think  be  siid 
that  any  cause  of  action  accrued  until  something  occurred  which 
interfered  with  or  placed  in  jeopardy  his  rights  under  that  deed 
and  it  is  not  contended  that  anything  of  that  nature  occurred 
before   the  property  in    question  was  included  in  the  inventory. 

de  Sampayo,  K.C.  (with  deZoysa)tor  the  defendant-ap- 
pellant.— The  plaintiff's  action  is  prescribed.  The  cause  of 
action  arose  whenever  theplaintiff  might  have  called  upon  the 
deceased  to  execute  a  conveyance  of  the  land  in  his 
favour.  This  he  might  have  done  in  1895  when  he  ad- 
vanced the  money  and  the  claim  is  prescribed  after  three 
years.    (See  2Iarthelis  Appu  v.  Jayewardene^ .) 

A.  St.  V,  Jayeicardene  for  the  respondent. — The  plain- 
tifE's  cause  of  action  arose  only  when  the  land  was  included  in 
the  inventory.  Till  then  the  plaintiff  was  in  possession 
of  the  land  and  improved  it  without  his  rights  being  dis- 
puted or  challenged  by  anybody.  As  long  as  he  had  all 
that  he  bargained  for  under  the  agreement  with  the  deceased 
he  had  no  complaint  to  make  against  anybody,  hence  no 
cause  of  action.  When  the  land  was  included  in  the  in- 
ventory the  plaintiff's  rights  were  jeopardised  and  a  cause  of 
action  arose.  (See  Silva  v.  Silva^  and  Coivper  v.  God- 
mondt.)  The  plaintiff  has  established  title  by  prescription 
also.    He  has  possessed  the  land  from  1895  to  1912 

de  Sampayo,  K.  G.  in  reply. 

Lascelles,  C.  J.-In  this  case  there  is  no  dispute 
with  regard  to  the  findings  of  the  learned  District  Judge 
onthefacts^    But  it  is  contended  by  the  appellant   that  the 

1.     9  Bmgham  748.     2.    {1908)    11  N  T    K    o-vo 

3.   1  c.  A.  a  14  ^• 

1- 2 .       ■       , 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  85 

learned    District    Judge   was    wrong  in    holding    that  the  Senaratne 
plaintiff's  action  was  not  prescribed.     On    the    other  hand  Jane  Nona, 
the  respondent  contends  that   the    learned    District    Judge    L„celles 
ought  to   have    held    that   the  plaintifE  had  obtained  a  title        '^••'• 
to  the  land  in  dispute   by   prescription.     As    to    the   latter 
point  I  do  not  consider    it   necessary   to  definitely  decide  it. 
I  will  only  say  that,  on  the  findings  of  the   learned   District 
Judge,  I  do  not  see  why  the  plaintiff  should  not   have  been 
held  to  have  obtairifed  a  prescriptive  title.     He  entered   into 
possession  of  the  land  in  189.5.    He  improved  the  land,  and 
he  remained  in  possession  without  any  dispute    or    without 
his  right  being  in  any  way   questioned   until   the  year  1912, 
when  the  property  was    included   in   the   inventory  of  the 
deceased's  estate.     In  these  circumstances  it   is   hard   to  see 
why  the  plaintiff  should  not    be    held  to   have   prescribed. 
As  to  the  finding  of  the    learned    District    Judge    that   the 
plaintiff's  right  of  action  is    not    prescribed,    the    question 
turns  on  the  time  when  the  cause    of   action    accraed.     The 
plaintiff  entered  into  possession  as  I  have  said  in  1895/1902, 
and  as  long  as    he    remained    in     possession    without    any 
interference  on  the  part   of    his    brother  or  his  representa- 
tives he   had    obtained   all  that  he  had   bargained  for.     He 
was  in  the  enjoyment  of  the  right  to  which  he  was   entitled 
under    the    arrangement    effected    between    him   and   his 
brother.     It  cannot  I  think  be  said  that  any  cause  of  action 
accrued  until  something  occurred   which   interferred    with 
or  placed  in  jeopardy  his  rights   under   that   deed,  and  it  is 
not  contended  that  anything  of  that  nature    occurred  before 
the  property  in  question  was  included  in  the  inventory.  The 
English  case  of  Cowper  v.  Godmond^  shows  clearly  the  prin- 
ciple which  is  applicable  in  such  cases.     The  point  of    time 
when  the  right  to   bring   the   action   accrues   is  at  the  time 
when  the  party  has  been  interfered  with   in   the  enjoyment 
of  his  rights.     So  long  as  he  receives  all   that   he    considers 
himself  to  the    entitled    to,   he   cannot  be  expected  to  take 
action,  and  the  legal  cause  of  action  cannot  be   said   to  have 

1.     9  Bingham  748. 


86  COTTRT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

Senaratne  arisen.     I  think  that   the   ruling    of    the    learned    District 
Jane  Nona.  Judge  on  this  question  is  right,  and    as    it    is    conclusive  of 
Wood  Ren-  *^i®  action  on  the  findings  of  fact  which    are    not    disputed, 
ton,  J.      I  ^ould  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Wood  Renton,  J. — I  am  of    the   same  opinion.     The 
learned   District    Judge   has   h^ld     that   the     plaintiff-res- 
pondent in  1895,  on  the  strength  of   the    purchase  by  Ben- 
jamin Senarat  with  his  money  and  on    his    behalf,    entered 
into  possession  of  the  land  in  question,  and  held  it    without 
dispute  till  it  became  apparent  that  the   defendant-appellant 
proposed  to  set  up  a  claim  of  title   on   behalf   of   Benjamin 
Senarat's  estate.     That  finding  is  of    importance    from  two 
points  of  view.     In  the  first  place,  it  would,  in  my  opinion 
have  justified  a  decision  of  the  present  case  in   respondent's 
favour  on  the  ground  of    prescription,    in  the  second  place, 
it  throws  an  important  light  on  the    question    of   the  point 
of  time  at  which   the    respondent's   cause   of   action  arose. 
He  was  in    undisturbed    possession   of   the    land.     He  was 
improving  it.     There  was  no  pretence  of  any  counter-claim 
of  title  on  Benjamin  Senarat's    behalf.     For    compensation 
was  paid  to  him  on  the  basis  that  title  was    in    the    respon- 
dent.    In    that    state    of   the   facts,   it   cannot,  apart  from 
authority,  be  fairly  said    that    the    respondent's    cause    of 
action  arose  till  the  appellant  sought  to    disturb    the  status 
quo  by  including  the  land  in  suit  in  the  inventory   of   Ben- 
jamin Senarat's  estate.     The  only  decision   that   could  have 
been  cited  on  the  other  side  is    that  of   the  Supreme  Court 
in  Marthelis  Appa  v.  Jayeivardene^  .     It  was  a  decision  by 
Sir  Joseph  Hutchinson  and  myself.     The  facts    were  some- 
what different,   but    there    is   no   doubt  that  we  there  held 
that  the  cause  of  action  for  the  refund  of   money   advanced 
on   a  consideration   which   had   failed   arose    immediately 
upon  payment.     That  case   has   subsequently   come   before 
me  on  several  occasions,  and  I  have  always  entertained  some 
doubt  whether  the  decision  on  that   point   was  right      Now 
that  my  attention  has    been   called   to  the   case   ot  Conpa' 
V,  (rodmmct  and  to  the  reasoning  of  the  Court   of   Common 
i.     0908)llN.L.Ii.27S.       2.     9  Bingham  748 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  87 

Pleas  in  that  case  I  do  not  think  that  it  ought  to  be  follow- 
ed on  the  point  with  which  I  am  dealing.  I  have  taken 
this  opportunity  of  making  this  observation  seeing  that  I 
was  myself  one  of  the  Judges  who  decided  the  case. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctors  for  appellant — Keuneman  &  Keuneman. 

Proctor  for  respondent — D.  Isamaraweera. 


DINGIRI     APPUHAMY    v.     APPUHAMY. 

No.  11509  C.  R.  Kegalle. 

Present  -.    de    Sampayo,  J. 

19th  September  1913. 

JiirisfUction  of  Conrt  of  Requests — action  for  damages  depending  on 
proof  of  title  to  land — possessory  action — test  of  jurisdiction  value  of 
land. 

The  plaintiff  averred  title  to  2/3rd  share  of  a  certain  field 
and  alleged  that  the  defendant  had  ousted  him  and  appropriated 
the  crop  of  the  field  and  claimed  Rs.  35  as  damages.  The  de- 
fendant denied  the  plaintiff's  title  and  the  alleged  ouster  and 
stated  that  he  was  a  lessee  under  the  trustee  of  the  Dalada 
Maligawa,  who  was  subsequently  added  as  a  party,  and  set  up 
the  title  of  the  temple.  At  the  trial  the  plaintiff's  proctor  stated 
that  the  action  was  intended  to  be  a  possessory  action  and  that 
the  prayer  for  possession  was  omitted  by  an  oversight.  The  land  was 
admitted  to  ha  worth  over  Rs.   300. 

Jleld,  that  in  view  of  the  pleadings  the  claim  for  damages 
depends  on  proof  of  title  to  the  land  and  that  the  Court  of 
Requests   has   no   jurisdiction  to   try  the   case. 

Held  also,  that  even  if  this  can  be  regarded  as  a  possessory 
suit  the  question  as  to  the  value  of  the  action  remains  the  same. 
Balahami  v.  Subehami^  .     distinguished. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene  for  the  plaintiff -appellant. — 
The  plaintiff's  claim  is  well  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court    of    Requests.     In   view   of  the  admission  made  by 

1.     3  \Bal.  S44, 


88  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Dingiri  Ap-  counsel  for  the  added-party  that  the  plaintiff  had   got    back 

V.         posse  si  on,  the  only  question  that  had  to  be  decided  was  the 

''^PP"''^"''- claim  for  damages  and  that  being  under  Rs.    300,   the    com- 

de    S^m-    missioner  was  wrong  in  dismissing  the  action  (see  Balahami 
payo,  J. 

V.  Subehamf  ).     The    added-party'g    prayer  to  be  declared 

entitled  to  the  field  cannot  oust  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court 
of  Requests  because  the  plaintiff's  claim  is  within  the  juris- 
diction of  the  Court  of  Requests.  The  jurisdiction  of  a 
Court  must  be  determined  by  the  value  of  the  plaintiff's 
claim  (see  Clatherina  v.  Silva^  ). 

J.  W.  de  Silva  for  the  respondents. — The  plaint  re- 
cites that  the  defendant  wrongfully  and  unlawfully  entered 
that  said  field  with  force  of  arms  and  reaped  and  removed 
the  entire  crops  without  giving  the  ground  share.  It  is 
clear  from  the  said  recitals  that  the  defendant  disputed 
the  title  of  the  plaintiff  and  therefore  it  is  submitted  that 
the  plaintiff's  claim  for  damages  must  depend  on  proof  of 
title  to  the  land  (see  Silva  v.  Fernando^  ).  The  statement 
made  by  Counsel  for  the  added-party  is  not  an  admission 
of  title  in  the  plaintiff  and  it  cannot  bind  the  defendant  as  to 
title.  The  case  of  Balahami  v.  Subehami^  has  no  applica- 
tion, as  there  the  defendant  admitted  the  title  of  plaintiff. 
If  title  is  not  disputed,  what  is  the  position  of  the  added- 
defendant  ?  "Why  was  he  allowed  to  come  into  the  case 
at  all  and  file  answer  ?  The  plaintiff  did  not  object  to  the 
added-defendant  being  made  a  party.  It  was  the  added- 
defendant  alone  who  contested  title.  Besides,  the  plain- 
tiff applied  to  convert  the  action  into  a  possessory  action. 
The  action  must  fail  for  that  reason  too,  because  in  a 
possessory  action  the  value  of  the  interest  is  the  value  of 
the  land. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayewardene  in  reply. 

c.  a.  V. 

1     S  Bal.  244.  2.     10  N.  L.  R.  260. 

3,    11   N.  L.  R.  375, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  89 

de  Sampayo,  J— The  plaintiff  averred  title   to   2/3rd  ,  Dingiri 

Appunamy 
share  of  a  certain  field   ami   alleged   that  the  defendant  had         v. 

ousted  him  and   appropriated    the    crop   of   the   field,   and 

claimed   Rs.    35    as    damages.     The   defendant   denied  the  ^e  Sampayo 

plaintiff's  title  and  the   alleged  ouster    and    stated    that  he 

■was  a  lessee  under  the  trustee  of  the  Dalada  MaligaAva.  who 

was  subsequently  added  as  a  party  and  set  up  the  title  of  the 

temple. 

At  the  trial,  after  some  discussion,  the  Commissioner  de- 
cided that  the  question  of  title  had  to  be  gone  into  and  as 
the  plaintiff  admitted  the  land  to  be  worth  over  Rs.  300  he 
dismissed  the  action  for  want  of  jiirisdiction. 

It  was  stated  in  the  Court  below  on  behalf  of  the  plain- 
tiff that  the  action  was  intended  to  be  a  possessory  action 
only,  though  the  prayer  for  possession  was  omitted  by  an 
oveisight.  I  find  it  also  stated,  I  do  not  know  by  whom, 
that  the  plaintiff  had  got  back  possession.  In  these  cir- 
cumstances it  was  argued  in  appeal  that  the  case  only 
involved  a  claim  for  damages  and  that  the  Court  had  juris- 
diction. It  seems  to  me  in  view  of  the  pleadings  that  the 
claim  for  damages  depends  on  proof  of  title  to  the  land, 
and  that,  even  if  this  can  be  regarded  as  a  possessory  suit, 
the  question  as  to  the  value  of  the  action  remains  the  same. 
The  case  of  Balahanil  v.  Suhehauil^  was  cited  to  me,  but 
there  the  plaintiff's  title  was  admitted  by  the  defendant 
and  there  remained  only  the  question  of  damages.  The 
case  of  Gatherina  v.  Silver  was  also  cited,  but  I  do  not  see 
that  it  has  any  bearing  on  the  present  case.  I  think  the 
order  appealed  from  is  right  and  I  dismiss  the  appeal  with 
costs. 

A/ijjeal  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  appellant — -.4.  A.  Wickremesinghe. 
Proctors  for  respondents — G.  S.  Suraweem  and 

A.  F.  R.  Goonawardoie. 
1.     3  Bed.  244.  2.     10  N.  L.  R.  260. 


90  COURT    Oi*    APPEAL    CAsES. 

SINNETAMBY  u.  KAMALAMUTTU. 

No.  4566  D.  C.  Chilaw. 

Present .    Pereira  &   Ennis  J.  J. 

10th  September  1913. 

Moneu  recoeered  hy  jndgment-cveiitoi'  in  e.vceuof  amoiud  due  under 
decree — whether  recm-rrable  in  same  nction — does  the  order  certifying  satis- 
faction of  dec  rre  close  tlie  proceedings — Cieil   Prucedure  Code  ^^  344,340. 

The  defendant  moved  under  §  344  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code 
for  a  notice  on  the  plaintiff  to  show  cause  why  he  should  not  refund 
to  the  defendant  a  sum  of  R691'07  recovered  by  him  in  excess  of  the 
amount  due  to  him  under  the  decree.  On  the  day  fixed  for  the  dis- 
cussion of  the  matter  on  the  motion  of  the  plaintiff's  proctor,  con- 
sented to  by  the  defendant's  proctor,  payment  of  the  decree  was 
certified  under  §  349  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  Thereafter  the 
plaintiff's  proctor  contended  that  the  "  case  was  closed"  and  nothing 
further  could  be  done  in  it  on  the  defendant's  motion  for  an  order  on 
the  plaintiff  to  refund  the  amount  paid  to  him  in  excess  of  the  sum 
actually  due  to  him. 

Held,  (1)  That  the  defendants'  application,  when  it  was  made 
was  quite  in  order  as  an  application  under  §  344  of  the  Civil  Pro- 
cedure Code. 

(2)  That  the  intention  of  the  parties — at  any  rate  of  the  defen- 
dant— was  not  to  "close  the  proceedings"  by  certifying  satisfaction  of 
the  decree  and  that  in  the  circumstances  of  the  case  the  order  on 
the  plaintiff's  motion  to  certify  payment  of  the  decree  amounted  to 
no  more  than  the  placing  on  record  of  the  fact  that  the  defendant  has 
paid  the  plaintiff  at  least  the  amount  of  the  decree. 

Joseph   Orenie?^  K.    C,  for  the  defendant-appellant. 

Sansuni,  for  the  plaintiff-respondent. 

The  following   authorities   were   cited  in  the  course  of 
the  argument  in  appeal  Jiiggut  Chunder  v.Shih  Ohunder;^ 
Fakaruddln    v.    Official  Trustee;  ^  Ramanaden   Ghetty   v. 
Kanajjpa  Ghettij? 

1.     16  W.  E.  360.         2     10  Gal  536. 
3.     6  JIad.  H.  C.  R.  304. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  91 

Pereira  J.— In  this  case  it  appears  that  the  defen-  Sinuetamby 
dant  paid  the  plaintiff  a  certain  sum  of  money  in  satisfaction  Kamala- 
of  the  decree.  He  subsequently  di  covered  that  he  had 
paid  the  plaintiff  in  exce.-s  of  the  amount  actually  due  to  """■•  • 
him  on  the  decree,  and  on  the  7th  May  191.T  he  (the  defen- 
dant) moved  for  a  notice  on  the  plaintiff  to  shew  cause 
why  he  should  not  refund  R(^91.07  "I'ecovered  by  him  in 
excess  of  the  amount  due  to  him  under  the  decree."  It  is 
said  that  this  sum  R691.07  is  not  the  correct  amount  paid  in 
excess,  and  that  it  was  so  understood  by  all  parties  at  the 
hearing  of  defendants'  application.  Be  that  as  it  may, 
clearly  the  motion  of  the  defendant  was,  at  the  stage  of  the 
proceedings  in  which  it  was  made,  a  motion  that  fell  well 
within  the  scope  of  the  provision  of  §  344  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code.  It  involved  questions  relating  to  the  "exe- 
cution of  the  decree."  The  notice  asked  for  was  allowed 
and  served  on  the  plaintiff,  and  the  lltli  July,  1913  was 
fixed  for  the  discussion  of  the  matter.  On  that  day  as  a 
preliminary  step  apparently,  on  the  motion  of  the  plaintiff's 
proct'^r  consented  to  by  the  defendant's  proctor,  payment  of 
the  decree  was  certified  under  §  349  of  the  Civil  Procedure 
Code.  The  moment  this  was  done,  the  plaintiff's  proctor 
contended  that  the  "case  was  closed,"  and  nothing  further 
could  be  done  in  it  on  the  defendant's  motion  for  an  order 
on  the  plaintiff  to  refund  the  amount  paid  to  him,  in  excess 
of  the  sum  actually  due  to  him,  and  the  District  Judge 
relying  on  certain  decisions  of  the  Indian  Courts  cited  to 
him  disallowed  the  defendant's  motion.  The  same  deci- 
sions have  been  cited  to  us,  and  on  a  careful  examination 
of  them  it  seems  to  me  that  they  have  no  application  to  the 
peculiar  circumstances  of  the  present  case.  As  observed 
already,  the  defendant's  application,  when  it  was  made, 
was  quite  in  order  as  an  application  under  §  344  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code.  What  the  Court  had  to  decide  was  how 
much  was  actually  paid  by  the  defendant  to  the    plaintiff  in 


92  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Sinnetamby  satisfaction  of  the  decree.     In  the  course  of  the  inquiry,  the 
Kamala-    plaintiff's  proctor   as   a  preliminary   step,    moved  to  certify 
™"**"     satisfaction  of  the  decree.     In   the   circumstances  in   which 
Ennis  J.    j.jjjg   motion   was     made,     the      order     on     it      amounted 
to     no    more     than     the      placing     on    record      of      the 
fact  that  the   defendant   had   paid    the   plaintiff  at  least  the 
amount  of  the  decree.     How   much   more  was  paid  had  yet 
to  be  ascertained.     Clearly   the  intention  of  the  parties — of 
the  defendant  at  any  rate — was  not  to   close  the  proceedings 
by  certifying  satisfaction   of  the   decree.     The  object  of  the 
motion  and  the  effect   of   the   order   on  it  are  as  I  have  ex- 
plained above. 

I  would  set  aside  the  order  appealed  from  and  remit 
the  case  to  the  Court  below  to  ascertain  how  much  was  paid 
by  the  defendant  to  the  plaintiff  in  excess  of  the  exact 
amount  due  to  him  on  the  decree  and  for  an  order  on  the 
Plaintiff  to  refund  the  excess  if  any.  I  think  that  the  de- 
fendant should  have  her  costs  of  appeal  and  that  costs  in  the 
Court  below  should  abide  the  event. 

Ennis   J. — I    agree. 

Oase  remitted. 

Proctor  for  appellant — O.  E.  Corea. 

Proctors  for  respondent — Martin  and  Sansnni. 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES.  93 

PUNCHI  MENIKA  v.   DINGIRI   MENIKA. 

No.    4760   D.   C.   Kurunegalle. 

Present :   Wood   Renton  A.C.J. 

&   de  Sampayo   J. 

7th   November  1913. 

Action  to  set  aside  deed — who  oan  bring — frmid — ipJiut  riiUHt  he  prored. 

Under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  an  action  to  set  aside  a  deed  on 
the  ground  of  fraud  is  granted  only  in  favour  of  a  creditor  to  whose 
prejudice  the  alienation  had  been  effected,  or  to  the  heirs  of  such  a 
creditor,  and  is  maintainable  only  on  proof  of  the  intention  of  the 
insolvent-alienor  to  defraud  his  creditiors  and  of  the  fact  that  at 
least  one  creditor  had  been  so  defrauded. 

Allan  Drieberg  for   the   appellant. 

No  appearance  for  the  respondent. 

c.a.v 

Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J.— The  plaintiffs-respon- 
dents have  instituted  this  action,  alleging  that  one  Appu- 
hamy  sold  to  them  the  land  in  dispute  by  deed  dated  9th 
Jannary  1912,  and  praying  that  a  prior  deed,  dated  16th 
December  1910,  by  the  same  vendor  tranfferring  the  same 
land  to  his  wife,  the  1st  defendant,  should  be  declared  void 
on  the  ground  of  fraud.  The  learned  District  Judge  has 
given  judgment  in  the  plaintiff's  favour.  The  1st  defen- 
dant, in  her  personal  capacity  and  as  guardian  ad-litem  of 
her  minor  children,  appeals. 

It  appears  to  me  that  this  appeal  must  succeed.  Under 
the  Roman-Dutch  Law,  as  I  understand  it,  an  action  to  set 
aside  a  deed  on  the  ground  of  fraud  is  granted  only  in 
favour  of  a  creditor  to  whose  prejudice  the  alienation  had' 
been  effected,  or  to  the  heirs  of  such  a  creditor  (see  de  Vos 
translation  of  Voet,  huok  48.8.3.),  and  is  maintainable 
only  on  proof  of  the   intention    of   the  insolvent-alienor  to 

defraud  his  creditors,  and   of  the   fact   that  at  least  one  cre- 
ditor  had   been   so   defranded  (see   Baha  Etana  v.   Basse 
Tnnmanse  0-     Here   all  these   elements  are  absent.     The 
1,     {1896)  2   Br.   355, 


&i  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Punchi     plaintiffs   are   not   creditors    of   Appuhamy.    There   is    no 
Menika 

V.         e-^idence  worthy  .of  the  name   that   he    was  insolvent  at  the 

Menika     '^^^^  °^   ^^^'   execution    of   his    deed  in   the  1st  defendant' 

favour.    Such   vague   statements   as  those  of  the    1st  plain- 
de  Sampayo 

J.         tiff  Punchi  Meniku,   and   Punchi  Appuhamy   Vidane,   that 

Appuhamy  was  in  debt,  that   he   had  previously  mortgaged 

the  land  he  sold   to   the  plaintiffs   to   raise  money,  that  he 

owed  money  to  some  Moor  boutique  keepers,  and  to  Mendis 

a  boutique  keeper  in  Kurunegalle,    and  that   his  debts  were 

paid  after  the  deed  of  transfer  in  the   1st  defendant's  favour 

fall  far  short  of   establishing    insolvency.    The   relation   in 

which  Appuhamy  stood  to  the  1st    defendant  deprives  most 

of  the  points,  on  which  the   learned  District  Judge  relies  as 

establishing   fraudulent   intention,    of   probative  value,  and 

there  is  nothing  to  show  that  Appuhamy 's  creditor's  gerer- 

ally,  or  any  of  his  creditors  in   particular,   have  or  has  been 

prevented  from  obtaining  payment,  of  any  debt  due  by  him 

jn  conseqaence  of  the  impeached  alienation. 

On  these  grounds,  I  would  set  aside  the  decree  under 
appeal  and  direct  decree  to  be  entered  dismissing  the  plain- 
tiff's action  with  the  costs  of  the  action  and  of  the  appeal. 

De  Sampayo   J. — I   agree. 

Set  aside. 
Proctor  for  appellant — F.  N.   Daniels. 


SOMASUNDERAM     v.     SINNATAMBY. 

No.  31896  D.  C.  Colombo. 

Present :     Wood   Renton,  A.  C.  J.  Ennis  J. 

3rd  October  1913. 

Civil  Procedure  Code  §  34 — splitthtr/  of  olaims — d,issohition  of  part- 
nership  till  dissolntion — SMh>ier[ueiit  action  for  account  of  business  after 
dissolution — former  action  btumff/it  after  caitse  of  a ctiou  in  latter  action 
dccrtied — sulMcpicnt  action  does  not  lie. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  9» 

Plaintiff's  father  S.  &   1st  defendant  traded  as  partners.    S.  died  Somasun- 
on  the  10th  of  March   1907    and  the  partnership  came  to  an  end.     On       dram 
23rd  July  1908  the  executor  of  S.   sued  1st  defendant  for  account  of  Sinnetamby 
partnership  business   till  death  of  S,     In  that  action    judgment  was 
entered  in  favour  of  S's  estate   for  R5116-45.     Plaintiff  brought   the  j      j^    q^  j^ 
present  action  on  the   30th   December   1910  for  an  account  of  the 
income  and  expenditure  of  the  s<)id  business  between   10th  April  1907 
and  31st  December  1907. 

The  defendant  pleaded  the  judgment  and  decree  in  the  former 
action  as  res  judicata. 

IJeld,  that  the  plea  of  res  judicata  was    bad  as  there  was  no  ad- 
judication in  the  former  action   on  the   matter  at  issue  in  the  presen 
action  namely  the  liability  of  the  defendant  to  account  for  the  profits 
derived  from  the  use  of  the  partnership  assets  after  S's  death. 

Held,  also   that   the   second  action   is  barred  by  <}  34  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code.    The   cause  of  action  in   both  cases  is  one  and  the 
same  namely  the  refusal  or  failure  of  the  defendant  to  account  to  S's 
estate  for  the  share  of  the  profits  due  to  it  by  the  partnership. 
Elliott  for  appellant. 

F.  M.  de  Sarain  (with   H.  A.  Jayewardene)  for   res- 
pondent. 
Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J. —  Formal   judgment  dissmiss- 
ing  the  appeal  with  costs  whs  given  in  this    case  at  the  close 
of  the  argument  on   Friday,    3rd    instant.     It  only  remains 
now  to  state  shortly  the  grounds  of  our  decision.     The  point 
for  determination   is   whether   the  plaintiffs-appellants  are 
precluded  by  S.  3-4  of  the  Civil  Procedure   Code  from  main- 
taining this  action,  by  reason  of   their  failure  to  include  the 
claim,  for  the  enforcement  of  which  it  is  brought,  in  a  pre- 
vious action — D.  C.Colombo   No.  17168   instituted    by  the 
executor  of  their  father  against   the  first  defendant,  the  res- 
pondent.    The   learned   District   Judge   has   answered  this 
question  in  the  affirmative,  and  I    think  that  he  has  done  so 
rightly.     The   facts   material   for   this   decision   are   these. 
The  plaintiff's  father  Sinniah   Pulle   and  the  1st  defendant 
traded  in  partnership  as  opium  renters.    Sinniah  Pulle  died 
on  10th  April  1907,  and  by  his  death  the  partnership  in  the 
ordinary  sense  of  the  term  came  to    an  end.     On  23rd  July 
1908,  his  executor  instituted  case  D.  C.  Colombo  No.  27168, 


96  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Somasun-    claiming  from  the  1st  defendant  an  account  of    the    partner- 
dram 
V.        ship  up  to   the   date   of    its    dissolution  by  Sinniah  Pulle  s 

"^°^  ^"^  ^  death.     That   case   went    to  trial  and  judgment  was  entered 

Wood  Ren-  jj^  favour  of  Sinniah  Pulle's  estate  for  the  sum  of  R.5116-45. 
ton  A.  C.  J. 

The  claim   in   the   present   action,    which  was  instituted  on 

30th  December  1910,  is  for  "an  account  of  the  income  and 
expenditure  of  the  said  business  "  between  10th  April  19  ">7 
and  31st  December  1907,  or,  in  the  alternative,  for  the  pay- 
ment of  the  estimated  share  of  profits  due  to  Sinniah 
Pulle's  estate  by  virtue  of  the  alleged  continuance  of  the 
Ijusiness  of  the  partnership  by  the  1st  defendant  between 
those  dates  after  its  formal  dissolution  on  Sinniah  Pulle's 
death.  Under  S.  12  of  the  partnership  act,  1890, 
(1)  the  estate  of  an  outgoing  partner  is  entitled, 
where  the  partnership  has  been  dissolved  but  there 
has  been  no  final  settlement  of  accounts  between 
the  firm  and  the  oat  going  to  partner  or  his  estate,  either 
to  such  a  share  of  the  profits  made  since  the  dissolution  as 
the  Court  may  find  to  be  attributable  to  the  use  of  his  share 
of  the  assets,  or  to  interest  at  the  rate  of  five  per  cent  per 
annum  on  the  amount  of  his  share  therein.  In  the  pre- 
sent cise  the  plnntiffs  are  pursuing  these  alternative  re- 
medies. They  could  admittedly  have  claimed  the  relief 
which  tliey  now  seek  in  the  previous  case,  and  if  their 
"  cause  of  action  "  in  D.  C.  Colombo  No.  27168  is  the  same 
as  their  "  cause  of  action "  now,  the  provisions  of  S.  31 
of  the  Civil  Procedure  apply  and  the  action  with  which  we 
are  here  concerned  is  not  maintainable. 

The  1st  defendant  in  his  answer  pleaded  the  judgment 
and  decree  in  D.  C.  Colombo  27168  as  res  judicata,  and  the 
District  Judge  upheld  that  plea.  The  Supreme  Court  (Lascel- 
les  C.  J.  and  Grenier  J.)  on  appeal,  however,  overruled  this 
decision  on  the  ground  that  in  D.  C.  Colombo  27168  there 
was  no  adjudication  on  the  matter  at  issue  now,  namely  the 
liability  of  the  1st  defendant  to  account  for  the  profits 
derived  from  the  use  of  the  partnership  assets  after  Sinniah 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  97 

Pulle's   death.      But  they    sent    the  case    back     to     the  Somasun- 

dram 
District     Court     for     further     inquiry     and     adjudication         v. 

on  the  question  whether  the  present   action  is  not  barred  by    ™"^        ^ 

§  34   of  the  Code  of  Civil  Procedure,    and  it  is  on  that  point  Wood  Ren- 
ton  A.  C.  J. 

that   we   have   to    deal   with    it  now.     In  my  opinion,   the 

''  cause  of  action"  in  both  cases  is  one  and  the  same,  namely 
the  refusal  or  the  failure  of  the  1st  defendant  to  account  to 
Sinniah  Pulle's  estate  for  the  share  of  the  profits  due  to  it 
by  the  partnership.  Although  the  partnership  was  no 
doubt  formally  dissolved  by  Sinniah  Pulle's  death,  it  still 
continued  to  exist  for  the  purposes  of  §  4:2  of  tht  partner- 
ship act  1890  so  long  as  no  final  account  had  been  rendered 
and  Sinniah  Pulle's  money  remained,  and  was  being  used, 
in  the  business.  It  is  on  these  grounds  that  I  came  to  the 
conclusion  at  the  close  of  the  argument  last  week  that  the 
appeal  should  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

The  effect  of  the  dismissal  of  the  appeal  is  that  the 
plaintiflE's  action  itself  must  be  dismissed  with  the  costs  of 
the  action  and  of  the  appeal  under  the  decree  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  23rd  February  1913.  The  trial  of  the  other 
issues  was  to  be  proceeded  with  only  in  the  event  of  the 
plaintiff's  succeeding  on  the  issue  as  to  whether  §  34  of  the 
Code  of  Civil  Procedure  was  applicable. 

Ennis  J. — I  entirely  agree.  The  cause  of  action  in 
this  case,  as  in  D.  C.  Colombo  27168,  was  the  failure  of  the 
surviving  partner  to  fulfil  his  obligation  to  account  for  the 
profits  of  the  deceased's  partner's  share  in  the  assets  of  the 
partnership.  The  obligation  to  account  for  profits  or  to  pay 
interest  being  expressly  continued  by  section  42  of  the 
partnership  Act  1890,  after  the  death  of  a  partner  as  attach- 
ing to  the  deceased's  partner's  share  of  the  partnership 
assets. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  plaintiff — /.  A.  Per  era. 
Proctor  for  defendant — L.B.  Fernando. 


98  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

ON  ORIS    V.    BABY    NONA    et  al. 

No  11641  D.  C.  Galle. 

Present:   Ennis   and   de   Sampayo   J.   J. 

13th  "November   1913. 

Ckil  Procedure  Code  §  IS—tnlsjoinder  of  parties  and  of  causes  of 
action. 

The  defendants  were  the  heirs  of  a  deceased  person  whose  estate 
was  being  administered  by  the  Secretary  of  the  District  Court.  FoJ 
the  purpose  of  defraying  the  testamentary  expenses  certain  property 
of  the  estate  was  ordered  to  be  sold  by  the  administrator  and  in  order 
to  save  the  property  ■  from  being  sold  the  1st  defendant 
on  behalf'  of  herself  and  her  then  minor  daughter  the 
2nd  defendant,  requested  the  plaintiff  to  pay  the  amount 
required,  namely  R400,  promising  that  the  amount  would 
be  settled  by  the  payment  of  R200  by  the  1st  defendant  and 
R200  by  the  2nd  defendant.  The  plaintiff  stayed  the  sale  of  the 
property  by  the  payment  of  R400  and  sued  the  defendants  in  one 
action  for  the  recovery  of  the  amount. 

Held,  that  the  transaction  must  be  construed  as  one  contract  upon 
which  the  two  defendants  were  severally  liable  and  that  they  were 
rightly  joined  in  one  action. 

Vernon  Grenier  for  the  plaintiff -appellant. — Section  14 
of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  peroiits  the  plaintiff  to  join 
the  defendants  in  one  action  for  they  are  liable  "  in  respect 
of  "  his  payment  on  their  behalf.  In  any  event,  the  joinder 
is  good  under  section  15,  for  the  contract  between  the  parties 
■was  clearly  one,  sirice  a  payttient  of  R200  vsrould  not  save 
even  a  half  share  of  the  properties. 

E.  W.  Jayeivardene  for  the  defendants-respondents. — 
The  causes  of  action'  are  entirely  separate.  Each  defen- 
dant had  a  distinct  contract  with  the  plaintiff  and  for  breach 
of  each  coiitract  a  separate  action  lies.  The  principle  of  th" 
House  of  Lords  decision  in  Sadler  o.  The  Great  Western 
Railway  Co.,^  is  identical.  The  case  of  the  improper  joinder 
of  plaintiffs  is  similar  (6'y/;?ion  Appuhami  v.  Eosa^  ;  Sinirth- 


1.     il8Ue)   A.    G.   450.  2.     'J   -N.  L.  R.   68. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  99 

waite  V.  Hannay.Y      The  cause  of  action,  that  is  the  breach     Ondris 
of  contraet,  is  distinct  in  the  case  of  each  defendant  {Fer-  Baby  Nona 

nando  v.  Mel^  _    .    „ 

Enni    & 

Ennis  J.— In  this  case  the  plaintiff,  at    the  request  of  •*'  Sampayo 

the  1st  and  2nd  defendants,  undertook  to  stay  a  sale,  and 
the  1st  and  2nd  defendants  undertook  each  to  pay  him 
R200.  The  plaintiff  stayed  the  sale  of  the  property  by  the 
payment  of  R400,  and  sued  the  defendants  in  one  action 
for  the  recovery  of  the  amount.  The  District  Court  held 
that  as  each  of  the  defendants  was  liable  to  pay  only  R200 
there  was  a  misjoinder  of  parties  and  causes  of  action,  and 
dismissed  the  plaintiff's  claim  with  costp.  I  am  of  opinion 
that  under  section  15  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  the  plain- 
tiff rightly  joined  the  defendants  in  one  action  as  they 
were  severally  liable  on  one  contract  which  contract  was 
the  undertaking  to  stay  the  sale.  On  the  other  findings  in  the 
judgment  I  consider  that  decree  should  be  entered  for  the 
plaintiff  for  the  payment  of  R200  by  each  of  the  defendants. 
I  therefore  set  aside  the  decree  of  the  District  Court,  and 
order  accordingly,  with  costs. 

De  Sampayo  J.— I  am  of  the  same  opinion.  The  1st 
defendant  is  the  mother  of  the  2nd  defendant  and  both  of 
them  would  appear  to  be  the  heirs  of  a  deceased  person 
whose  estate  was  being  administered  by  the  Secretary  of  the 
District  Court,  and  for  the  purpose  of  defraying  the  testa- 
mentary expenses  certain  property  of  the  estate  was  ordered 
to  be  sold  by  the  administrator.  The  plaintiff's  case  is  that 
in  order  to  save  the  property  from  being  sold  the  1st  defen- 
dant on  behalf  of  herself  and  on  behalf  of  her  then  minor 
daughter,  the  2nd  defendant,  requested  the  plaintiff  to  pay 
the  amount  required,  namely,  R400  promising  that  the 
ainount  would  be  settled  by  the  payment  of  R200  by  the 
1st  defendant  and  R200  by  the  2nd  defendant.  This  is  in 
substance  the  evidence,  as  I  gather  of  the   plaintiff  who  was 


1.     {1894)  A.  C,  494.  S,     8  Bal  295. 


100  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

examined  m  Court.  The  2nd  defendant  has  since  attained 
majority  by  marriage  and  consented  to  judgment  against 
her  for  her  share  of  the  debt,  and  has  otherwise  ratified  the 
agreement.  In  my  opinion  the  transaction  must  be  con- 
strued as  one  contract  upon  which  the  two  defendants 
are  severally  liable.  This  is  the  exact  kind  of  case  contem- 
plated in  section  15  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  and  I 
think  that  the  two  defendants  were  rightly  joined,  in  one 
action  and  judgment  should  have  been  entered  against  them 
I  agree  to  the  order  proposed  by  my  brother. 

Set  nsidp. 

Proctor  for  appellant— 72.  A.  H.  De  Vos. 

Proctor  for  respondent — A.  D.  Jayasunclarn. 


-:q:- 


MAMMALE  MARIKAR  v.  JUNSIDO  et  al. 

No.  11427  D.  C.  Galle. 

Present :  Pereira  &  Ennis,  J. J. 

7th  August  1913. 

Proof  of  execvtion  of  deed — signing  hy  c7-ox>. — person  executing  holding 
pen  u'hilst  another  pntu  the  crusis — ichetlier  fact  of  tJte  writing  and  aiitho- 
rity  proved — J  l:ifl^  Oieil  Procedure  Code. 

Where  the  question  was  whether  a  certain  deed  was  duly  exe- 
cuted by  P.  and  the  evidence  showed  that  P.  held  the  pen  while 
another  put  the  cross,  but  there  was  no  evidence  to  prove  the  fact  of 
the  writing  and  the  authority  of  the  writer  to  write  the  name  on 
the  document  as  a  signature,  as  referred  to  in  §  159  of  the  Civil  Pro- 
cedure Code. 

Held,  that  the  deed  was  duly  executed  by  P. 

Section  159  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  refers  to  a  case  where 
the  signature  is  written  by  the  one  person  without  any  interference 
by  or  help  from  the  other. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  101 

A.St.  V.  Jayaivardeneiov  plaintiff-appellant.  Mammale 

Marikar 

H  A  Jayaivardene  (and  Gooneratne)  for  lOth  and  12th     ,  ^- ., 

Junsido 


defendants-respondents. 

Pereira  J. — In  this  appeal  the  question  is  whether 
deed  No.  5167  dated  the  7th  March  1902  (Dl)  was  duly 
executed  in  favour  of  the  10th  defendant  by  Davadu  Mar- 
kar  and  Pathu  Muthu.  The  two  witnesses  to  the  deed  were 
called.  One  of  them  (Ahamadu  Carim)  stated  that  he  saw 
the  parties  sign  and  there  was  no  cross-examination  with 
reference  to  this  statement,  and  the  other  (Ahamadu  Casim 
Bawa)  said  that  he  saw  Davadu  sign  the  deed  and  Pathu 
Muthu  put  her  mark.  As  regards  the  latter  statement  he 
was  cross-examined  and  he  said. — "  I  do  not  know  who 
put  the  cross.  She  touched  the  pen."  Manifestly,  what  the 
witness  meant  was  that  he  saw  somebody  putting  the  cross 
whe^i  Pathu  Muthu  touched  the  pen.  On  this  latter  state- 
ment appellant's  Counsel  contended  that,  as  a  result  of  the 
provision  of  section  159  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Codg^,  it 
could  not  be  said  that  the  deed  was  executed  by  Pathu 
Muthu.  The  section  enacts  that  the  signature  of  a  person 
which  is  written  by  the  pen  of  another  is  not  proved  until 
both  the  fact  of  the  writing  and  the  authority  of  the  writer 
to  write  the  name  on  the  document  as  a  signature  are 
proved.  In  the  present  instance,  it  cannot  be  said  that  the 
signature  or  rather  mark  of  Pathu  Muthu  was  written  by 
the  pen  of  another.  Clearly,  the  section  refers  to  a  case  in 
which  the  signature  is  written  by  the  one  person  without 
any  interference  by  or  help  from  the  other.  Here,  Pathu 
Muthu,  by  actually  holding  the  pen,  made  herself  a  party 
to  the  writing,  and  it  cannot  be  said  that  the  mark  was 
wholly  written  by  another.  But,  even  in  the  latter  view, 
it  is  clear  from  the  fact  that  Pathu  Muthu  held  the  pen  that 
the  actual  writer  had  her  authority  to  write. 

It  has  also  been  pressed  that  the  10th  defendant  had 
no  possession  of  the  land  conveyed  after  the  alleged  exe- 
cution of  the  deed  and  that  in  a  petition  given  by  Davadu 
after  the  date  of  the  deed   he  complained   that  he  had   no 


Pereira    J. 


102  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

possession  of  the  land,  the  argument,  of  course,  being  that 
Davadu  would  not  have  made  the  complaint  if  he  Mad  al- 
ready conveyed  the  land  to  another,  and  the  10th  defendant 
himself  would  not  have  omitted  to  bestir  himself  to  ob- 
tain possession  had  deed  Dl  been  actually  executed  in  his 
favour.  The  land  was  inherited  by  Davadu  and  Pathu 
Muthu  from  one  Abdul  LatifE.  After  his  death  the  admi- 
nistrator of  his  estate  had  possession  of  the  land  and  leased 
it  to  a  thir.d  party  and  although  Davadu  parted  with  his 
rights,  it  was  for  him  to  obtain  possession  of  the  land  and 
place  his  vendee  in  possession.  These  facts,  I  think,  explain 
Davadu's  petition  and  the  fact  that  the  10th  defendant  had 
no  possession. 

I  would  affirm  the  judgment  appealed  from  with  costs. 

Ennis  J. — I  agree. 

Affirmed. 

Proctor    for   defendants-respondents — J.  A.    Sethv- 
kmmler. 


MUTHUKARUPPEN  CHETTY  v.  HABIBHOY. 

No.  33725  D.  C.  Colombo. 

Present .-  Pereira  &  Ennis   J.J. 

6th  August  1913. 

Oontract  to  delher  fjoods  at  future  time—Dplirrry  in  monthly 
parcels— Breach  before  the  time  for  complete  performance—action  for 
damar/es  for  delivery  of  goods  for  two  vionths—m>  bar  to  subsequent  action 
U'ith  regard  to  succeeding  months— Ciril  Procedure  Code  §§  54  J(' 207— 
measnre  of  damages— difference  betwein  the  contract  and  market  price 
each  month-resjudicata. 

The  defendants  on  the   25th  August  1910  agreed  to  supply  the 

plaintiff  with  360  bales   of jsarees  and  dhooties  within  one  year  from  , 

the  1st  of  September  1910   to  the   31st  August   1911    at  the  rate  of 

30  bales  a  month.    The  defendant  made   default   in    supplying    the 

arees  and  dhooties   in  the   months    of  October  and  November  1910. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  103 

Plaintiffs  on  7th  January  1911  instituted    action  D.  C.  Colombo  31911    Muthu- 
for  recovery  of  R15000  as  damages  and    obtained  judgment.    In  that   karuppen 
action  the  defendant  pleaded  that  the  contract  was  not  duly  entered  y 

into,  in  that  one  Thomas   Marsdent  who  had  signed  the  contract  on  Habibhoy 
behalf  of  the  defendants  had  no   authority  to  do  so.    At  the  trial  of 
that  case  the  defendants  Counsel  stated  that  "  he    did  not   intend  to 
press  the  matter." 

The  present  action  was  brought  to  recover  a  sum  of  R8700  as 
damages  for  a  period  subsequent  to  the  month  of  November  1910. 

The  defendant  pleaded  that  (1)  the  contract  entered  into  having 
been  signed  by  Thomas  Marsdent  was  void  (2)  in  view  of  §§  34  and 
207  the  action  was  barred  (3)  that  the  plaintiffs  are  not  entitled  to 
damages  for  each  separate  default. 

Held  (1)  that  the  judgment  in  D.  C.  Colombo  31911  operated  as 
7'esjiidicata  on  the  1st  objection. 

An  order  made  of  consent  in  a  case  operates  as  much  as  an  es- 
toppel as  an  order  made  after  adjudication  on  evidence. 

Held  (2)  that  the  action  was  not  barred  by  reason  of  §§  34  and 
207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

The  plaintiffs  had  the  option  of  treating  the  whole  contract  as 
at  an  end  and  claiming  damages  in  respect  of  a  breach  of  the  whole 
contract  or  of  treating  the  contract  as  subsisting  and  claiming 
damages  for  each  default  thereunder  committed. 

Held  (3)  that  the  measure  of  damages  is  calculated  by  the 
difference  between  the  contract  price  and  the  market  price  not  at 
the  time  of  the  breach  of  the  contract,  but  at  the  time  or  times  when 
the  defendant  made  default-in  supplying  the  goods. 

This  is  an  appeal  from  a  judgment  of  the  Additional 
District  Judge  of  Colombo  (L.  Maartensz  Esq.) 

R.  L.  Pereira  for  the  defendant-appellant. — 

The  appellant  had  repudiated  the  whole  of  the  con- 
tract sued  on  at  the  time  when  action  No.  31911  was  insti- 
tuted. In  that  action  the  plaintiffs  had  the  right  to  sue  for 
continuing  damages  but  failed  to  take  advantage  of  that 
right.  They  are  clearly  barred  from  bringing  a  separate 
action  in  respect  of  those  damages  (see  §  §  54  <£■  207  C.  P.  C ; 
Kirihmuy  v.  Dingiri  Amma). 

Thomas  Marsden  who  signed  the  contract  on  the  defen 
dant's  behalf  had  no  authority   to  do    so.     It  is  true  that  in 
the  first  case  this  point  was   not   pressed   but    that  does  not 
preclude  the  defendants  from  raising  the  objection  now. 

As  regards  the  amount  of  damages,  it  is  submitted  that 
the  plaintiffs  are  not  entitled  to  damages  in  respect  of  each 
separate  default.     At  any   rate,  they   are   not  entitled  to  the 

/.     Bed.  IM, 


104  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Muthu-     damages  they  claim.     No   effort  has  been  made  by  them  to 

""chettr    reduce  the  damages.     Goods  similar  to   those    in  question 

X-         were  available  at  Darley   Butter   &    Co.  and,  in  India  at  the 

Habibhoy  ^^^^^^.^  j^.^jg  .^^^  Buckingham  Mills,  yet  the    plaintiffs  did 

Pereira    J.-^^^^  ^^,^  ^^  procure  them  from  those  places. 

E.  J.  C.  Pereira  (with  him  F.  JI.  de  Saram)  for  the 
plaintiffs-respondents.— The  action  is  not  barred  by  §§  34  & 
207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  The  plaintiffs  had  ^the 
option  of  treating  the  whole  contract  as  at  an  end,  and 
claiming  damages  in  respect  of  a  breach  of  the  whole  con- 
tract, or  of  treating  the  contract  as  subsisting  and  claiming 
damages  for  each  default  committed  by  the  defendant.  It 
is  open  to  the  plaintiff  to  maintain  an  action  in  respect  of 
each  separate  default  (see  Bojjer  v.  Johnson'^  ). 

The  defendant  is  not  entitled  to  plead  Marsden's  want 
of  authority  in  this  case.  The  question  was  raised  as  an 
issue  in  the  1st  case  but  defendant's  Counsel  stated  that  he 
"did  not  intend  to  press '  the  matter."  An  order  made  of 
consent  in  a  case  operates  as  much  as  an  estoppel  made 
after  adjudication  on  evidence.  (See  Samitchy  Appu  v. 
Pieris' ). 

There  was  no  available  market  in  Ceylon    in  which  the 
plaintiffs  could   have    bought  the   goods.      What   Marsden 
means   that    Darley    Butler   &   Co.,  were   selling  sarees  and 
dhooties  is  that  they  were  supplying  on  contract. 
R.  L.  Pereira  in  reply. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira  J. — In  this  case  the  plaintiffs  sued  the  de.- 
fendant  for  the  recovery  of  the  sum  of  RS700  being  damages 
alleged  to  have  been  sustained  by  the  plaintiffs  by  reason 
of  a  breach  by  the  defendant  of  a  contract  entei-ed  into  bet- 
ween the  parties  for  the  supply  by  the  defendant  to  the 
plaintiffs  bf  certain  sarees  and  dhooties.  The  contract  was 
entered  into  on  the  25th  August  1910,  and  by  it  the  defen- 
dant agreed  to  supply  the  plaintiffs  with  three  hundred  and 


1.     L.  R.  S  C.P.  167.  2.     C.  A.  a  30. 


Pereira  J. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  105 

sixty  bales  of  sarees  and  dhooties  within  one  year,  that  is  to  Muthu- 
say,  from  the  1st  September  1910  to  the  31st  August  1911  Chetty*"^ 
at  the  rate  of  thirty  bales  a  month.  The  defendant  made  „  ,7/, 
default  in  supplying  the  sarees  and  dhooties  in  the  months 
of  October  and  November  1910,  and  thereupon  the  plaintiffs 
instituted  action  No.  31911  in  the  District  Court  of  Colombo 
for  the  recovery  of  R1500  as  damages.  That  action  was 
instituted  on  the  7th  January  1911,  and,  in  appeal,  judg- 
ment was  entered  in  it  in  the  plaintiff's  favour  for  the 
amount  claimed.  In  that  action  the  defendant.  In  his  ans- 
wer raised  the  question  whether  the  contract  referred  to 
above  was  duly  entered  into,  that  is  to  say,  whether  one 
Thomas  Marsden,  who  had  signed  the  contract  on  the  de- 
defendant's  behalf,  had  the  authority  of  the  defendant  to  do 
so.  At  the  trial,  however,  the  defendant's  Counsel  stated 
that  he  "  did  not  intend  to  press  the  matter."  In  other 
words,  he  assented  to  the  case  proceeding  on  the  footing 
that  Marsden  had  the  authority  of  the  defendant  to  enter 
into  the  contract  on  behalf  of  the  defendant.  The  same 
objection  was  raised  in  this  case,  and  in  that  connection  the 
question  arose  whether,  with  reference  to  it,  the  judgment 
in  the  older  case  could  not  be  pleaded  as  an  estoppel  by  way 
of  res  judicata.  An  order  made  of  consent  in  a  case  oper- 
ates as  much  as  an  estoppel  as  an  order  made  after  adjudi- 
cation on  evidence,  and  the  question  involved  in  the  pre- 
sent case  is  quite  covered  by  the  authority  of  the  decision  of 
the  majority  of  the  court  in  case  No.  21328;of  the  District 
Court  of  Kandy  decided  by  this  Court  early  this  year,  and 
I  think  that  the  defendant  is  estopped  from  pleading  in  this 
case  that  Marsden  had  no  authority  to  enter  into  the  con- 
tract sued  on. 

Another  question  raised  in  this  case  is  whether  the 
plaintiff's  claim  is  not  barred  by  the  decree  in  case 
No.  31911  by  reason  of  the  provisions  of  sections  34  and  207 
of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  Under  the  former  section, 
every  action  should  include  the  whole  of  the  claijn  which 
the  plaintiff  is  entitled  to  make  in  respect  of  the  cause  of 
action  pleaded  :  and  under  section  207    [see  explanation] 


106  COURT  01'  APPEAL  CASES. 

Muthu-     every  right  to  relief  of  any   kind   which    can  be  claimed  in 

■"chatty"  an  action  upon  the  cause  for  which   it    is  brought  becomes 

7-        aresiMf^tcato  which  cannot  afterwards  be  made  the  subject 

^^^  °^  of  action  for  the  same  cause  between  the  same  parties.  Now 
Pereirn  J.  .^  j^  ^^.^^  ^j^^^^  ^^^  defendant  repudiated  the  contract  in 
question  before  action  No.  31911  was  brought,  and  that 
therefore  the  contract  was  then  at  an  end,  and  that  the 
plaintiflEs  should  in  that  action  have  sued  for  damages  in 
respect  of  a  breach  of  the  whole  contract,  and  that  having 
sued  for  damages  for  two  months  only,  they  must  be  deemed 
to  hav-e  been  barred  from  instituting  the  present  action  by 
reason  of  the  sections  of  the  Code  cited  above.  Assuming 
that  there  was  a  repudiation  of  the  contract  before  the  insti- 
tution of  action  No.  31911,  it  must  be  remembered  that 
[and  here  the  English  Law  applies]  the  plaintiffs  had  the 
option  of  treating  the  whole  contract  as  at  an  end,  and 
claiming  damages  in  respect  of  a  breach  of  the  whole  con- 
tract or  of  treating  the  contract  as  subsisting  and  claiming 
damages  for  each  default  thereunder  committed  by  the 
defendant.  In  MuUer  v.  Brown  [L.  B.  7  Ex.  319,  323'} 
Kelly  C.  B..  with  reference  to  a  repudiation  similar  to  that 
with  which  we  are  here  concerned  observed — "  The  plain- 
tiff might,  if  he  had  so  elected,  have  treated  the  contract 
as  at  an  end  when  the  defendant  announced  his  intention 
to  break  it.  That  is  a  matter  of  election  on  the  plaintiff's 
part."  And  in  Boper  v.  Johnson  \_L.  B.  8  G.  P.  169  ] 
Keating  J.  in  similar  circumstances,  observed — "The  promisee 
if  he  pleases,  may  treat  the  notice  of  intention  as  inoper. 
ative,  and  await  the  time  when  the  contract  is  to  be  executed 
•  and  then  hold  the  other  party  responsible  for  all  the  conse- 
quences of  non-performance  but  in  that  case  he  keeps  the 
contract  alive  for  the  benefit  of  the  other  party  as  well  as 
his  own.  He  remains  subject  to  all  his  obligations  and 
liabilities  under  it,  and  enables  the  other  party  not  only  to 
complete  the  contract,  if  so  advised,  notwithstanding  his 
previous  repudiation  of  it,  but  also  to  take  advantage  of  any 
supervening  circumstance  which  would  justify  him  in  de. 
dining  to  complete  it.     On  the    other  hand,   the    promisee 


Pereira  J. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  107 

may,  if  he  thinks  proper,  treat  the  repudiation   of  the  other    Muthu- 

i  ,.,,,.  ,  ,  karuppen 

party  as  a  wrongful  putting   and   end  to   the  contract,  and     Chetty 

may  at  once  bring  his  action  as  on  a  breach  of  it,  and  in  such  Hablbhov 

action  he  will  be   entitled  to  such  damages  as  would    have 

arisen  from  the  non-performance   of   the    contract  at  the 

appointed  time." 

In  the  present  case  the  plaintiffs  wonld  appear  to  have 
elected  to  treat  the  contract  as  subsisting  and  to  sue  for 
damages  on  the  occasion  of  each  default.  That  being  so 
sections  34  and  207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  have  no 
application  to  this  case. 

Now,  as  regards  the  amount  of  damages,  it  has  been 
said  that  the  plaintiffs  are  not  ent  itled  to  damages  in  respect 
of  each  separate  default.  But  in  the  case  of  Muller  v. 
Brown,  cited  above,  the  plaintiff  bought  of  the  defendant 
five  hundred  tons  of  iron  <o  be  delivered  in  abjut  equal 
proportions  in  September,  October  and  November  1871  and 
it  was  held  that  the  proper  measure  of  damages  was  the 
sum  of  the  difference  between  the  contract  and  market 
prices  of  one-third  of  five  hundred  tons  on  the  30th  of 
September,  the  31st  of  October  and  the  30th  of  November, 
respectively.  And  in  Roper  v.  Johnson,  a  case  in  which  the 
plaintiff  has  elected  to  treat  the  contract  as  at  an  end — Brett 
J.  observed  [  P,  180.  ] — "Although  the  plaintiff  may  treat 
the  refusal  of  the  defendant  to  accept  or  to  deliver  the  goods 
before  the  day  for  performance  as  a  breach,  it  by  no  means 
follows  that  the  damages  are  to  be  the  difference  between 
the  contract  price  and  the  market  price  on  the  day  of  the 
breach.  It  appears  to  me  that  what  is  laid  down  by  Cock- 
burn  C.  J.  in  Frost  v.  Knight  in  the  Exchequer  Chamber 
\_1  Ex.  111^  involves  the  very  distinction  which  I  am 
endeavouring  to  lay  down,  viz,  that  the  election  to  take 
advantage  of  the  repudiation  of  the  contract  goes  only  to  the 
question  of  damage  ^  and  that,  when  you  come  to  estimate 
the  damages,  it  must  be  by  the  difference  between  the  con- 
tract price  and  the  market  price  at  the  day  or  days  appoin- 
ted for  performance,  and  not  the  time  of  breach," 


108  COURT    OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

Muthu-  Now  as  to  the  measure  of  damages — section  49  of  Ordi- 

IT"  A.  7*1 1  Tl  Tl  A 11 

Chetty     nance  No.  11  of  1896  enacts  (1)  the  measure  of   damages  is 
Habibhoy   ^^^  estimated  loss   directly   and  naturally    resulting  in  th« 
ordinary  course  of  events  from    the  seller's   breach  of  can- 
tract  (2)  where  there  is  an  available  market  for  the    goods' 
the  measure  of   damages  \&  prima  facie  to  be   ascertained  by 
the  difference  between  the  contract   price  and  the   market 
price  of  the  goods  at  the  time   or  times    when  they  ought  to 
have  been  delivered.     These   provisions   are   identical   with 
the  corresponding  provisions  of   the  English  Act  and  in  this 
connection  I  may  say  that  in  the  case  of  Roper  v.  Johnson 
cited  above.     Grove  J.   observed  as  follows  [P.  18S.]     "The 
"  plaintiffs  having  made  out  a   ^5rw?ffi/ac«e  case  of  damages 
"  actual  and  prospective,  to  a  given    amount,   the  defendant 
"  should  have  given  evidence  to  show  how  and  to  what  extent 
that  claim  ought  to  be  mitigated."     In  the   present  case,  the 
attitude  taken  up  by  the   plaintiffs  apparently   was   that  the 
measure  of  damages  applicable  was  that    mentioned  in  sub- 
section 2  of  section  49  of  the  Ordinance,  and  the  defendant 
has  in  my  opinion  failed  to  shew   that  sub-section  3  applied, 
and  that  under  it  there   was  reason  to  mitigate  the  claim 
made  by  the  plaintiffs.    The  plaintiffs  by  the  evidence  led 
by  them  have  shewn  that  the    damage  claimed  by  them  is 
the   loss   directly   and   naturally   resulting    in  the  ordinary 
course  of  events  from   the   defendant's    breach    of  contract. 
In  the  older  case.-No.  31911— it   appears   to  have  been  ad- 
mitted that  there  was  no  available   market  for   goods  similar 
to  those  forming   the  subject   of   the  present  contract.     The 
Chief  Justice  in   his  judgment   in  that  case  observed.     "It 
"is  admitted  that  in  the  ordinary  sense   of  the  expression 
there  was  no  available  market  for  goods  of  this  particular 
type "  and  he  effectually    disposed  of    the   contention  that 
the  plaintiffs  should  have  applied  to  the  defendant  himself 
for  these  goods    on  terms  more  favourable    to  the  latter 
and  damages  were  allowed    to  the  plaintiffs  in  the    older 
case  on  the  footing  that  they   were  entitled  to  the  loss  tha* 
had  directly  resulted  from  the   defendant's  breach  of  con- 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  109 

tract  regardless  of  the  market  price,  if  any,  of  goods    similar ,  Muthu- 

karuppen 
to  those  in  question.     In  the   present  case,  as  regards  avail-     Chetty 

able  markets  the  defendants'   witness,     Mr.  Marsden,  says  jiabibhoy 

no  more  than  that  Darley  Butler  &  Co.,   were   selling  sarees    _    .    , 

^^  EniUI    J. 

and  dhooties,  exactly  similar  to  those  contracted  for,  in 
1908,"  that  in  1912,  Findlay  &  Co.,  were  selling  similar 
sarees  and  dhooties  in  .Ceylon,  and  that  similar  sarees  and 
dhooties  were  being  made  in  India  by  the  Carnatic  Mills 
and  Buckingham  Mill  in  1910  and  1911,  and  he  gives  no 
information  as  to  the  prices  and  has  sworn  to  no  facts  that 
would  justify  a  mitigation  of  the  claim  made  by  the  plain- 
tiffs. The  2nd  plaintiff,  on  the  other  hand,  swears  that 
these  sarees  and  dhooties  are  only  manufactured  by  the  de- 
fendant and  while  he  admits  that  Nagappa  was  selling  sarees 
and  dhooties  at  certain  prices,  it  is  clear  that  Nagappa  was  a 
mere  retail  dealer  who  himself  obtained  his  sarees  and 
dhooties  on  a  contract  with  the  defendant.  In  the  circum- 
stances, I  do  not  think  that  there  is  any  reas  m  to  reduce  the 
amount  claimed  by  the  plaintiflEs  as  damages.  I  would  afflrm 
the  judgment  appealed  from  with  costs. 

Ennis  J. — I  agree.  The  measure  of  damages  in  an 
action  on  contract  of  non-delivery  of  goods  is  the  difference 
between  the  contract  price  and  the  price  at  which  goods  of  a 
similar  kind  could  be  bought  in  the  market  at  the  time 
delivery  was  due.  In  this  case  there  is  some  slight  evi- 
dence of  a  market  for  the  goods  but  no  evidence  of  the  price 
at  which  such  goods  could  be  bought.  The  plaintifif  has 
given  evidence  that  he  made  no  enquiries  whether  similar 
goods  could  be  purchased.  He  bases  his  claim  on  a  possible 
profit  he  could  have  made  had  he  sold  by  retail  the  goods 
contracted  for, 

I  think  that  the  onus  of  proof  of  circumstances  in  miti- 
gation of  the  damage  was  on  the  defendant,  and  in  the  cir- 
cumstances and  in  view  of  the  previous  case  I  would  not 
interfere. 


110  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES, 

FULL  BENCH. 

JAINS    V.    SUPPA    UMMA, 

No.  21941   D.   C.  Kandy. 

Present:  Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J,,  Ennis 

&   de   Sampayo  J.J. 

14th   November  1913. 

Cimtract  of  sale— oUigat ions  between  vendors  and  purchasers— Rowan 
Dutch  Law — vacant  possession — vendor  warrants  against  tviction  and  not 
tl^e  title  of  the  ihing  sold— when  do  actiones  redhihitoria  and  qimnti 
minoi'is  lie. 

The  Law  governing  the  obligations  between  vendors  and  pur- 
chasers of  iinmovable  property  in  Ceylon  is  the  Roman -Dutch  Law 

Per  Ciiriam,  Wood  Renton  A.C.  J.  and  de  Sampayo  J,  Ennis  J 
dissentlente.  In  the  absence  of  express  agreement  the  vendor  does 
not  warrant  the  ii*le  of  the  thing  sold  but  only  warrants  against 
eviction. . 

In  the  absence  of  fraud  or  of  an  express  warranty  of  title  the 
only  primary  obligations  resting  on  the  vendor  of  immovable  pro- 
perty are  to  give  the  purchaser  "vacant  possession,"  that  is  to  say 
possession  unmolested  by  the  claim  of  any  other  person  in  possession 
of  the  property  sold  and  to  warrant  and  defend  the  title  which  he 
conveys  after  the  purchaser  once  placed  in  possession  has  been  evic- 
ted. The  purchaser  cannot  in  such  circumstances  decline  to  ac- 
cept vacant  possession  on  the  ground  that  his  vendor's  title  is 
defective. 

The  actio  redhihitoria  and  the  actio  quanti  minoris  are  compe- 
tent only  where  there  is  a  defect  in  the  thing  sold  itself.  They  are 
not  remedies  for  defect  of  title. 

Ennis  J.  It  is  however  one  thing  to  say  that  by  a  contract  of 
purchase  and  sale  a  purchaser  is  under  an  obligation  to  accept  de- 
livery of  property  which  did  not  belong  to  the  vendor,  and  a  totally 
different  thing  to  find  that  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  did  not  allow  an 
action  to  set  aside  the  sale  when  a  vendor  is  in  a  position  to  give 
possession  of  property  which  does  not  belong  to  him.  The  obli- 
gation doubtless  existed  so  long  as  the  contract  of  sale  existed. 
The  passages  cited  show  that  after  the  pui-chaser  has  accepted  delirery 
of  property  which  did  not  belong  to  his  vendor,  no  action  was  avails 
able  until  he  was  evicted  provided  his  vendor  sold  honafide  believing 
the  property  to  be  his. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CAsES. 

Ennig  J.  No  provision  of  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  has  teen  cited 
to  us,  and  I  have  been  unable  to  find  any,  which  definitely  says  that  a 
purchaser  could  not  get  a  rescission  of  the  contract  when  the  title  is 
found  before  delivery  to  be  either  bad  or  doubtful.  It  is  an  argument 
we  are  asked  to  hold  by  drawing  an  inference  from  the  passages  I 
have  cited,  passages  which  appear  to  me  to  apply  more  particularly 
to  the  position  of  the  parties  after  delivery  has  been  taken  by  the 
purchaser. 

Ennis  J.    The  authorities  cited  agree  that  -.-^ 

1.  A  person  who  unknowingly  accepted  a  fraudu- 
lent transfer  could  take  action  before  eviction. 

2.  A  person  who  knowingly  accepted  a  fraudulent 
transfer  could  not  take  action  before  eviction. 

3.  A.  person  who  knowingly  accepted  a  hnmjide 
transfer  which  subsequently  turns  out  to  be  bad  must 
wait  till  he  is  evicted  before  he  can  bring  action. 

4.  A  person  who  accepts  a  hmiojide  transfer  know- 
ing it  to  be  bad  could  not  take  actipn  before  eviction. 

But  no  auth  'rity  has  been  cited  for  the  proposition  that  where 
the  proposed  transfer  is  bad  oj  doubtful  the  purchaser  has  no  alter- 
native but  to  accept  it  and  wait  for  eviction. 

de  Sampayo  J.  Under  the  Ceylon  Law  it  is  not  the  duty  of  the 
vendors  to  make  out  a  good  title  in  order  to  entitle  him  to  perfor- 
mance by  the  purchaser  of  his  agreement  to  purchase.  Under  the 
English  Law  before  the  purchase  is  completed  by  a  conveyance  tbe 
vendor  is  required  to  satisfy  the  purchaser  on  the  question  of  title. 

The  following  are  the  facts  of  the  case  as  stated  by  de 
Sampayo  J.  in  his  judgment : 

On  the  23rd  November  1912  the  first  defendant  who  is 
the  wife  of  the  2nd  defendant  caused  a  certain  land  and 
premises  to  be  put  up  for  sale  by  public  acution  and  the 
plaintiff  as  the  highest  bidder  became  the  purchaser  of  the 
property  for  a  sum  of  R3750  and  signed  notarial  conditions 
of  sale  whereby  he  agreed  to  complete  the  purchase  accord- 
ing to  the  conditions.  The  plaintiff  accordingly  paid  to  the 
auctioneer  a  sum  of  R922/50  being  a  deposit  of  one  fourth  of 


ill 


Jains 

V. 

Snppa 
Umma 


112 


Jains 

V. 

Suppa 
Umma 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

the  purchase  money  and  a  further  sum  of  R299/50  as  the 
auctioneer's  charges  and  agreed  to  pay  the  balance  purchase 
money  within  one  month  of  the  sale.  The  conditions  of 
sale  provided  that  should  the  purchaser  fail  to  comply  with 
the  conditions,  the  money  deposited  and  the  charges  paid 
should  thereupon  be  forfeited  to  the  vendor  who  was  to  beat 
liberty  to  enforce  the  sale  or  resell  the  proi)^rty;,^a,3;id  recover 
from  the  purchaser  any  deficiency.  The  plaintiff  stated  in 
his  plaint  that  after  the  sale  he  had  the  defendant's  title  to 
the  property  examined  by  his  lawyers  and  that  "the  said 
title  was  found  to  be  defective  and  not  a  valid  and  market- 
able title  and  that  its  vj^lidity  was  found  to  depend  on 
doubtful  questions  of  law"  and  he  claimed  in  this  action  a 
refund  of  the  sum  of  R299/50  paid  as  auctioneer's  charges 
and  a  further  sum  of  R75/-  as  expenses  incurred  by  him  in 
investigating  the  title 

It  appears  that  the  1st  defendant  holds  an  absolute  grant 
of  the  premises  dated  28th  October  1911,  from  one  Alvaroo 
whose  title  was  based  on  a  deed  of  gift  dated  3rd  February 
1897,  from  his  brother  Veloo.  By  this  deed  of  gift  Veloo 
conveyed  the  property  to  Alvaroo  "his  heirs  executors  ad- 
ministrators and  asigns  for  ever  "  and  with  the  usual  cove- 
nant for  title.  The  habendum  was  followed  by  a  proviso  in 
these  terms  "  that  he  the  said  Alvaroo,  his  heirs,  executors 
or  assigns  shall  not  have  the  power  to  sell  or  mortgage  or 
lease  for  a  period  exceeding  two  years  the  said  several  lands 

and  premises for  a  period  of  thirty  years 

commencing  from  the  date  hereof  and  to  be  fully  completed 
and  ended.  That  if  my  said  brother  the, , said  Alvaroo  shall 
die  before  the  expiration  of  the  said  period  of  thirty  years 
without  leaving  any   legitimate  issue,  then  and   in  such  case 

the  said  several  lands shall  devolve   upon 

and  become  the  absolute  property  of  my  said  children 
Muniamma  and  Ayanperumal."  According  to  the  plaintiff, 
Alvaroo  is  still  alive  and  is  unmarried  and  Muniamma  (who 
joined  in  the  deed  of  sale  to  the  1st  defendant)  is  now  dead 
and  Ayanperumal  is  alive  and  is  still  a  minor.    At  the  trial 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


113 


no  evidence  was  called,  but  both  parties  were  content  to 
have  the  case  decided  on  the  legal  questions,  whether  in  the 
circumstances  above  stated  the  first  defendant  was  bound  to 
disclose  good  title  for  the  purpose  of  holding  the  plaintiff 
to  his  agreement  and  if  so  whether  the  1st  defendant's  title 
was  (as  the  plaint  put  it)  "a  valid  and  marketable  title." 
The  District  Judge  decided  both  these  points  in  favour  of 
the  1st  defendant  and  the  plaintiflE  has  appealed. 

Bawu  K.  G.  (with  E.  W.  Jayaivardene  and  L.  H.  de 
Alu'is)  for  plaintifiE-appellant: — The  defendant  has  not  given 
to  the  plaintiff-appellant  all  the  information  she  possessed  as 
to  her  title  to  the  property.  She  has  been  guilty  of  fraud 
or  at  least  of  misrepresentation  and  the  contract  is  void. 
The  defendant  purported  to  sell  a  property.  The  obvious 
meaning  is  that  the  whole  property  was  to  be  sold  and  not  a 
limited  interest  [  de  Sampayo  J.  But  this  is  an  auction 
sale  and  the  plaintiff  could  have  ascertained  the  nature  of 
the  rights  he  was  buying  ].  Yes,  but  why  should  the  pur- 
chaser spend  money  in  ascertaining  a  title  which  may  be 
no  title  at  all  ?  This  being  an  auction  sale  the  case  is 
governed  by  the  English  law.  {MarshaWs  jiidginents  p.  46). 
Under  the  English  law  the  vendor  must  satisfy  the  pur- 
chaser that  he  has  a  good  title  before  he  can  compel  the 
purchaser  to  accept  a  conveyance  [  de  Sampayo  J.  Is  there 
anything  in  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  which  would  enable  a 
would-be  purchaser  to  withdraw  from  the  contract  on  the 
ground  of  defect  in  the  title  of  the  vendor  ?]  The  actio 
redhihitoria  and  the  actio  quanti  minoris  are  available. 
[  de  Sampayo  J.  Those  actions  apply  only  to  latent  defects 
in  the  thing  sold  itself  but  would  not  apply  to  questions  of 
title.  ]  A  defective  title  is  a  latent  defect.  Every  defect 
is  latent  which  cannot  be  discovered  except  by  careful  in- 
vestigation by  a  man  accustomed  to  do  it.  (3  Maasdorp 
161  et  seq;  Morice  1S5  ;  2  Nathan  761,  757;  Grotiusp.  566.) 
[  Wood  Kenton  A.  C.  J.  Does  not  the  vendor  discharge 
his  primary  obligation  when  he  gives  vacant  possession  ?  ] 
Yes,  but  the  question  is  what  is  vacant  possession.  A  vendor 
is  understood  to  deliver  vacant  possession  when  he  makes  such 


Jains 

V 

Suppa 
Umma 


114  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

Jains      delivery  of  the  things   sold  that  it  cannot  be  reclaimed  by 
Suppa     another  person.     (Voet.  Bk.  XIX.  Tit.  1  h  10  ;  25  Ealshury 
Umma.     ^^  ^^0,  57S.)    Hfi'e  such  possession  cannot  be  given  by  the 
Wood  Ren-  defendant  to   the  plaintiff.   Counsel  also  cited  Ratwatte  v. 
""    '    '    '  Dulleiue-^    Alagiawanne    Gurunanse   v.  Don  Hendrick^  ; 
Garlish  v.  Salt i^  In-re  HaedickeandLipsWs   contract;*  hi- 
re Gloag  and  Miller's  contract,^  Ellis  v.  Rogers.^ 

A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene  for  the  respondent. — Obligations 
of  vendors  and  purchasers  of  immovable  property  are  govern- 
ed by  the  Roman-Dutch  Law.  The  position  of  a  vendor 
under  a  private  sale  is  the  same  as  under  an  auction.  The 
obligation  of  the  vendor  is  only  to  give  vacant  possession  to 
the  purchaser.  (2  5wfire  540;  Voet  Bk.  XIX  Tit.  l.h  11; 
Ratwatte  v.  Dullewe-}  Alagiawanne  Gurunanse  v.  Hen- 
drick,^  Kuruneru  v.  De  Silva.''  )  There  are  two  kinds  of 
warranty  ;  warranty  of  title  and  warranty  of  defect.  The 
purchasers  can  call  upon  the  vendor  to  warrant  and  defend 
title  only  after  eviction.  As  long  as  the  vendor  can  give 
vacant  possession  the  purchaser  must  accept  such  posses- 
sion and  when  he  is  evicted  he  may  have  his  remedy  against 
the  vendor  [  Wood  Renton  A.  G.  J.  Here  we  are  not  con- 
cerned with  eviction,  the  purchaser  has  not  gone  into  pos- 
session. J  The  purchaser's  claim  against  us  is  premature. 
As  long  as  we  were  ready  to  give  vacant  possession  the  pur- 
chaser should  have  been  ready  to  accept  it.  He  would  never 
have  been  disturbed  in  his  possession. 

Bawa  K.  C.  in  reply. 

0.  a.  V. 

Wood  Renton  A.C.J.— 

The  plaintiff,  the  appellant,  sues    in  this  action  to  re- 

1.     (1909)  10  N.  L.  R.  304.     2.     {1910)  13  N.  L.  R.   225. 

3.    {1906)  1  Ghan.  335.     4.    (1901)  2  Chan.  666. 

5.    (1883)  L.  R.  23  Ghan.  320. 

6.    (1884)  L.  R.  29  Chan.  661.       7.  (1894)  3  A.  0.  R.  155. 


CO  TRTOF  APPEAL  CASES,  115 


cover  from  the  defendants,  the  respondents,  the  auctioneer's  Jains 
charges  and  other  expenses  incurred  by  him  in  connection  Suppa 
with  the  purchase  of  a  property  put  up  by  the  1st  defen-  Umma 
dant-respondent  for  sale  by  public  auction.  The  2nd  de-  Wood  Ren- 
fendant-respondent  is  the  husband  of  the  1st.  The  ground  '*'"  ^  *"  "'* 
on  which  the  plaintiff's  action  is  based  is  an  alleged  defect 
in  the  title  of  the  1st  defendant  to  the  property  in  question. 
The  land  originally  belong  to  one  Velloo.  Velloo,  by  deed 
dated  3rd  February  1897,  donated  it  to  his  brother. 
"  Alvaroo,  his  heirs,  executors,  administrators,  and 
"  assigns  as  a  gift  irrevocable,  to  have  and  to  hold  the  said 
premises  unto  him  the  said  Alvaroo  his  heirs,  executors, 
"  administrators  and  assigns  for  ever"  and  covenanted  always 
"to  warrant  and  defend  the  same  unto  him  and  them  against 
any  person  whomsoever."  The  gift  was,  however,  subject 
to  a  proviso  that,  during  the  next  thirty  years,  the  donee 
Alvaroo  should  not  mortgage  or  sell  the  property,  or  lease 
it  for  any  period  beyond  two  years,  and  that  if  he  died 
without  legitimate  issue  before  the  thirty  years  elapsed,  the 
property  should  pass  absolutely  to  his  children  Mnniamma 
and  Aiyanperumal.  By  deed  dated  28th  October  1911, 
Alvaroo  and  Muniamma  sold  the  property  to  the  1st  defen- 
dant. Muniamma  has  died  childless  since  the  date  of  her 
deed,  but  Alvaroo  and  her  brother  Aiyanperumal  are  still 
alive.  The  latter  is  still  a  minor.  There  is  nothing  in  the 
pleadings,  or  in  the  record  of  the  proceedings  in  the  District 
Court,  to  show  that  the  1st  defendant,  in  putting  up  the 
property  for  sale,  acted  otherwise  than  in  good  faith.  It 
was  contended  however,  that  the  deed  of  189  7  by  Veloo 
created  a  ^dei  commissum  in  favour  of  Muniamma  and 
Aiyanperumal  and  that  Alvaroo  had  no  right  to  sell  the 
land.  The  learned  District  Judge  overruled  that  conten- 
tion, held  that  the  deed  conferred  on  Alvaroo  an  absolute 
title,  and  dismissed  the  plaintiff's  action  with  costs,  reserving 
the  right  of  the  defendants  to  recover  the  unclaimed  pur- 
chase money  in  a  separate  action,  if  the  necessity  for  doing 
so  arose. 


116  COURT    OF    APPEAL     GASES. 

Jains  It  is,  I  think,    neither   necessary   nor  desirable  that  we 

Suppa      should   express   in   the   present   case   any  opinion  as  to  the 
TJmma     mature  of  Alvaroo's  interest  under  the  deed.     It  is  conceded, 
Wood  Ren-  as  I  have  already  indicated,   for   the    purposes  of  these  pro- 
'     '  ■  ■  ceedings,  that  the   1st  defendant  acted  in  good  faith.     There 
is  nothing  to  show  bad   faith    on    the  part    of   Alvaroo  and 
Muniamma,  neither  is  there  anything  in  the  deed  of  1897  to 
prevent  them  from  conferring  on  the  first  defendant,  or  the 
1st  defendant   from   giving   to  the    plaintiff,  a  possession  of 
the  property  free  from  all   adverse   claims,  during  Alvaroo's 
lifetime.     The  question  that  we   have   to  decide  is  whether 
in  these  circumstances,  the  plaintiff  is    entitled  to  decline  to 
proceed  further   with  his   bargain,  and  to  claim  a  refund  of 
the  expenses  incurred  by   him   in    connection   with    it,  in- 
cluding his  deposit   of   a   quarter   of   the    purchase  money. 
This   question  must,    in   my    opinion,   be    answered  in  the 
negative.     The  point   is  clearly  governed    by  Roman-Dutch 
and   not   by   English    Law.     Whether   the  rules  of  Roman- 
Dutch  Law  on  the  subject  are   reasonable   or   not   is  matter 
with  which   we   have   here   no    concern.     If  they  are    un- 
reasonable,  the   Legislature   can   alter   them.     The  duty  of 
the  Court  is  merely  to   ascertain  what  they  are.     Under  the 
Roman-Dutch   Law,  a  contract   for  the   sale    of  immovable 
property  is,  in  my  opinion,   fundamentally  different  from  a 
similar   contract   under    the   law    of  England.     The    actio 
redhihiioria  and  the  actio  gxmntl   «imrjr^s  are  competent 
only  where  there  is  a  defect  in  the  thing   sold  itself.     They 
are  not   remedies  for   defect  of   title.     In   the   absence    of 
fraud  or  of  an  express  warranty    of   title,   the  only  primary 
,  obligations  resting  on  the  vendor  of  immovable  property 
are  to  give  the  purchaser  "  vacant  possession"  r.nmolested  by 
the  claim  of  any  other  person  in  possession    of  the  property 
sold,  and  to  warrant   and   defend   the  title   which    he   con- 
veys, after  the  purchaser,  once  placed  in  possession,  has  been 
judicially   evicted,     {^qq  Rativatte  n.   Dullewe^    and    Ala- 
maiuanne  v.  Don    HemlrlcW  ).     The   purchaser  cannot,  in 
1.     {1907)     10.     N.  L.  B.  304. 
S.     (1910)     13.     N.L.R.2S5. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  117 


such  circumstances  as  exist  in  the  present   case,  decline  to     Jain?" 

V 

accept  vacant  possession  on  the  ground  that  his  vendor  s  Suppa 
title  is  defective.  The  defect,  if  it  exists,  may  be  cured  by  Umma 
time.  If  the  purchaser  is  ousted,  he  has  his-remedy  (see  Ennis  J. 
Burge,  1st  ed.  Vol.  2,  pages  540,  514  ;  BerivicKs  Voet.,  p. 
173  ;  Nathan  Vol.  2,  §  880  and  page  669.)  I  can  find  no 
groundf  or  holding  that  a  purchaser  stands  under  Roman- 
Dutch  Law  in  a  better  position  before  the  execution  of  a 
conveyance  in  his  favour  than  he  does  after  it.  If  he  de- 
clined to  accept  such  a  conveyance  on  the  ground  that  the 
vendor's  title  was  defective,  the  vendor  could  meet  his 
objection  at  once  by  saying,  "'  I  am  able  to  give  you  vacant 
possession,  and  I  will  defend  the  title  conveyed  when  it 
has  been  successfully  attacked."  The  conditions  of  sale  in 
the  present  case  confer  upon  the  purchaser  no  express 
rights,  and  contain  no  statement  of  the  vendor's  interest  in 
the  property  sold.  In  these  circumstances,  both  parties 
must  be  regarded  as  having  contracted  under  the  provisions 
of  the  common  law.  I  have  already  stated  what  I  believe 
the  common  law  to  be. 

I  assent  to  the  order  proposed  by  my  brother  de 
Sampayo. 

Ennis  J. — This  case  raises  the  question  of  the  respec- 
tive obligations  of  vendor  and  purchaser  and  the  legal 
remedies  available  for  relief.  The  question  is  governed,  I 
consider,  by  Roman-Dutch  Law.  It  appears  that  the 
property  is  (or  may  be)  burdened  with  a  fidei  commissum. 
The  deed  of  gift,  which  forms  the  basis  of  the  title  ofiEered, 
contains  a  prohibition  on  alienation  for  30  years.  The 
period  has  not  yet  expired,  and  one  of  the  persons  to  be 
benefited,  a  minor,  named  in  the  deed,  is  admittedly  still 
alive  and  did  not  join  in  the  conveyance  to  the  1st  de- 
fendant. It  was  urged  for  the  defendants  that  this  fidei 
commissum  clause  was  void  on  a  true  construction  of  the 
deed  taken  as  a  whole.  It  may  or  may  not  be  so,  it  is  a 
doubtful  question  of  law  and  turns  on  the  construction 
of    the    termg        of    the     deed.     It   would    not    I  con- 


118 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES. 


Jains       consider,    be   proper  to    decide   such   a    question    as    inci- 
Suppa     dental  to  this  action  to  which  the  person   interested   is  not  a 
Umma     party.     It  is  necessary  to  consider  its  effect  on  the  contract. 
Ennit  J.    If  the  Mei  commissum  is  good  there   can   be  no   doubt  it 
would  affect  the  vendibility  of  the  thing  sold.     Voet  18-1. 
15  (Berwick  p.  20).     The  prohibition  is  annexed  to  and  in- 
herent in  the  thing   sold,  by  virtue  of    the  deed  of  gift,  and 
renders  it  unsaleable  {Burge  Bk  :  2  p.  440)  except  with  the 
concurrence  of  all  the  persons  who   take   any  interest  un- 
der '\\(,Walter    Pereira  p.  570.) 

The  contract  of  sale  in  this  case  merely  specified  cer- 
tain lands  in  Kandy  as  the  subject  of  the  sale,  and  this 
must  be  construed  to  mean  the  full  ownership,  {.Bower  v. 
Coopei;^  Hughes  v.  Parker^  and  Maasdorp  Vol.  III.  p  :  72) 
and  not  the  life  interest  only  to  which  the  vendors  would 
be  entitled  if  the    Mei  commissum  is  good. 

It  has  been  urged  that  in  the  absence  of  express  agree- 
ment the  vendor  does  not  warrant  the  title  of  the  thing 
sold  but  only  warrants  against  eviction,  and  that  the  pur- 
chaser may  be  compelled  to  accept  delivery  even  though  the 
property  belongs  to  another.  This  proposition  is  based  on 
the  following  passages  in  text  books  on  Roman-Dutch 
Law: — 

Referring  to  the  obligations  of  a  purchaser,  Maarsdorp 
anys  (Bk :  II.  p.  182)  "he  is  bound  to  accept  the  thing,  if 
tendered  to  him  in  accordance  with  the  contract,  even 
though  the  property  may  belong  to  a  third  party."  This 
statement  is  made  on  the  authority  of  Voet.  19.  1.  18  and 
Orotius  8.  26.  1. -Burge  (Bk  :  2 p.  540) says,  "according  to 
"the  Civil  law,  the  vendor,  by  the  contract  of  sale,  in- 
"curred  the  obligation  to  deliver  the  property,  but  not  to 
"make  the  purchaser  the  proprietor,  so  as  to  entitle  the 
"latter  to  insist  that  the  title  shall   be  made  clear  before  he 

"paid   the  price The  doctrine,  therefore, 

seems  to  have  been,  although  this  inference  is  controverted 

1.     2  Hare   108.  2.     8  M.  Jc    W.   244. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  119 

by  Callet  in  his   commentary   on   the  title  ex  evictimiihus,  Jains 
that,  if  the  vendor  sold  the  property  bona   Hde,    believng      Suppa 

it  to  be  his   own,  the    purchaser  was  not  at    liberty,  if  he  ^mma 

discovered  a  defect  in  the  title,  to   refuse  payment  of  or  re-  Ennu 
cover  back  the  purchase  money,  unless  he  had  been  actually 
evicted." 

As  to  the  obligations  of  the  Vendor: — Pothier  says 
(in  the  passage  cited  in  Burge  Vol.  2  p.  541)  which  I  trans- 
late as  follows; — 

"  The  contract  of  sale  is  a  contract  by  which  one 
of  the  contracting  parties,  the  vendor,  binds  himself 
to  cause  the  other  freely  to  hold  a  thing  under  a 
proprietory  title  in  consideration  of  a  sum  of 
money  which  the  buyer  binds  himself  recipro- 
cally to  pay. 

I  have  said  "de  luif aire  avoir  a  litre  proprietaire." 
"  These  terms  which  correspond  to  praestare  emptori  rem 
habere  licere  embody  the  obligation  to  deliver  the  thing  to 
the  buyer,  and  an  undertaking  to  defend  it,  after  it  has  been 
delivered  to  him  from  all  disturbance  by  which  people 
could  prevent  him  from  possessing  the  thing  and  from 
holding  it  as  the  proprietor  ;  but  they  do  not  embody  a 
definite  obligation  to  transfer  the  ownership  ;  for  a  vendor 
who  sells  a  thing  of  which  he  believes  in  good  faith  himself 
to  be  the  owner,  although  he  may  not  be  so,  does  not  bind 
himself  definitely  to  transfer  the  ownership.  That  is  why, 
though  the  buyer  finds  that  the  vendor  wat  not  the  owner 
of  the  thing  which  has  sold,  and  consequently  has  not  trans 
ferred  the  ownership  to  him,  the  buyer,  so  long  as  he  is  not 
disturbed  in  his  possession,  cannot  for  that  reason,  setup 
that  the  vendor  has  not  fulfilled  his  obligation." 

Voet  19.  1.  10  {Bertvick  p.   / 72)  says  "the   things  sold 

are  to  be  transferred to  the  purchaser  that  he 

shall  acquire  vacant  possession  of  them  whether  it  has  been 
expressly  agreed  or  not."  And  further  on  he  says  (Berwick 
p^  1 73)  "a  vendor  is    understood  to     deliver   vacant  pos- 


120 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 


Jains 
Suppa 
Umma 

Ennis  J. 


session  when  he  makes  such  delivery  of  the  things  sold 
that  it  cannot  be  reclaimed  by  another  person,  and  when 
therefore  the  purchaser  would  be  successful  in  a  suit  for 
possession." 

It  appears  from  these  passages  that  if  the  vendor  was  in 
a  position  to  give  a  possession  which  could  not  be  disturbed 
by  a  possessory  suit  the  purchaser  was  under  an  obligation 
to  accept  the  possession.  This  proposition  was  considered 
in  coming  to  a  decision  in  the  cases  Aliagiaicaiisa  Guru- 
ncmse.  v.  Don  HendricW-  and  Batiuatte  u.  Dulleive?  In  the 
one  case  it  was  held  that  a  lessee  who  had  been  given  vacant 
possession  had  no  cause  of  action  until  eviction,  and  in  the 
other  it  was  held  hat  a  vendor  was  not  in  a  position  to  give 
vacant  possession  when  a  third  party  was  actually  in  pos- 
session. 

It  is  however  one  thing  to  say  that  by  a  contract  of 
purchase  and  sale  a  purchaser  is  under  an  obligation  to 
accept  delivery  of  property  which  did  not  belong  to  the 
vendor  and  a  totally  diflEerent  thing  to  find  that  the  Roman- 
Dutch  Law  did  not  allow  an  action  to  set  aside  the  sale 
when  a  vendor  is  in  a  position  to  give  possession  of  property 
which  does  not  belong  to  him.  The  obligation  doubtless 
existed  so  long  as  the  contract  of  sale  existed.  The  pas- 
sages cited  show  that  after  the  jnirchaser  hem  accepted  deli- 
very of  property  which  did  not  belong  to  his  vendor  no 
action  was  available  until  he  was  evicted  provided  his 
vendor  sold  bona  fide  believing  the  property  to  be  his.  Do 
they  go  any  further  than  this  ?  I  think  not.  A  series  of 
actions  were  available  in  Roman-Dutch  Law  to  a  purchaser 
by  which  he  could  obtain  a  rescission  of  a  contract  Maarsdorp 
Vol:  3  pp.  57  et  seq  .■  andy;.  196.  They  were  the  same  on  a 
contract  of  sale  as  on  any  other  contract. 

No  provision  of  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  has  been  cited 
to  us,  and  I  have  been  unable  to  have  find    any,  which  defi- 


i.     13  N.  L.  R.  225. 


2.     10   N.   L.R. 


304. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


121 


nitely  says  that  a  purchaser  could  not  get  a  rescission  of  the      Jains 

V 

contract   where   the  title    is  found   hpfore     delivery   to   be      Suppa 
either  bad  or  doubtful.     It  is  an  argument  we  are  asked  to     Umma 
hold  by  drawing  an  inference    from    the  passages  I   have    Ennis  J. 
cited,  passages   which  appear  to  me  to  apply   more  parti- 
cularly to  the  position  of  the  parties    after  delivery  has  been 
taken  by  the  purchaser. 

No  fraud  is  alleged  in  this  case,  but  the  circumstances 
themselves  have  been  urged  as  indicating  a  want  of  mutuality. 
The  vendors  must  be  deemed  to  have  know  of  the  existence 
of  the  prohibition  on  alienation  contained  in  the  deed  of  gift 
the  source  of  their  title,  and  notwithstanding  that  they  may 
have  had  a  liona  fide  belief  it  was  invalid,  there  was  not  a 
fair  disclosure  of  the  position  before  the  action.  The  ven- 
dors were  offering  the  full  ownership  of  the  property 
burdened  with  the  strong  possibility  of  a  law  suit.  It  has 
been  urged  that  the  purchaser  might  have  found  it  out 
before  bidding.  It  cost  him  R7.5  to  find  it  out  afterwards. 
Is  it  reasonable  to  say  that  every  person  bidding  at  an 
auction  should  incur  such  an  expense  before  bidding  in 
order  to  make  sure  he  is  not  buying  prospective  actions  at 
law  ?  I  think  that  he  was  entitled  to  rely  on  the  averments 
in  the  conditions  of  sale  prior  to  the  property  being  knock- 
ed down  to  him.  The  opportunity  to  examine  the  title 
was  available  after  the  contract  of  sale  and  before  delivery 
of  the  property. 

It  would,  it  seems  to  me,  be  unsafe  to  adopt  an  in- 
ference which  may  have  far  reaching  and  dangerous  conse- 
quences, and  the  argument  of  the  respondents  should  not 
be  accepted  unless  it  is  clearly  shown  to  be  a  doctrine  of 
Rom  an -Dutch  Law  by  which  we  are  bound.  I  find  in  a 
note  in  Maarsdorp  ( T^o^.  S  p.  6)  that  contracts  of  purchase 
and  sale  were  regarded  by  the  Roman-Dutch  Jurists  as 
equitable  or  hmiae  fldei  contracts  and  that  they  gave  rise 
to  honae  fldei  actions.  The  note  saj^S  "  Bmiae  fldei  con- 
tracts were  so  called  from  the  fact  that,  it  being  very  diffi- 
cult because  of  the   infinite  variety   of  circumstances  to  lay 


122 


rOUET  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 


Jains 

V 

Suppa 
Umma 


down  all  the  terms  of  agreement  so  accurately  in  trans- 
actions binding  to  both  sides,  that  something  might  not  be 
omitted,  it  was  thought  only  right  that  what  was  omitted 
Ennis  J.  from  the  express  terms  of  a  contract  should  be  supplement- 
ed by  the  equity  of  the  Court  in  agreement  with  what  was 
fair  and  in  accordance  with  good  faith." 

In  Roman-Dutch  Law  it  would  seem  therefore  that  the 
degree  of  good  faith  by  vendors  and  purchasers  was  a 
question  of  equity  for  the  Court,  adjustable  to  changing 
circumstances.  The  contract  of  purchase  and  sale  contained 
reciprocal  obligations,  on  the  vendor  to  deliver,  and  on  the 
purchaser  to  receive,  the  things  sold,  and,  presumably,  the 
measures  of  relief  were  also  reciprocal.  By  the  Civil  Law 
it  was  a  controverted  question  {Burge  2  ^j.  54.2)  whether  a 
Vendor  who  has  been  adjudged  by  sentence  to  deliver  the 
property  sold  could  be  compelled  to  obey  the  sentence.  It 
would  seen  that  the  Civil  Law  authorised  a  purchaser  to 
sue  before  eviction  when  the  vendor  sold  what  hfi  knew 
did  not  belong  to  him  {ihid)  and  Pothier's  explanation 
which  I  have  cited  clearly  applies  to  a  case  where  a  vendor 
has  bona  fide  sold  ;  /.  e,  when  he  did  not  know  the  thing 
did  not  belong  to  him,  and  where  the  defect  was  discovered 
after  transfer.  In  the  present  case  I  doubt  whether  it  is 
possible  to  hold  that  the  vendors  sold  bona  fide  as  they 
must  be  deemed  to  have  been  aware  of  the  x>rlma  facie 
bad,  and  by  construction  doubtful,  state  of  the  title,  and 
even  if  the  sale  by  them  could  be  deemed  hona  fide,  Pothier 
would  seen  by  implication  to  be  an  authority  for  the  pro- 
position that  the  sale  could  be  rescinded  before  delivery,  the 
real  obligation  of  the  vendor  to  his  purchaser  being  "de 
hi i /aire  avoir  lihrement  a  titre  de  pnqirietaire. 

This  obligation  is  not  merely  to  warrant  the  purchaser 
against  eviction.  It  is  primarily  an  obligation  to  transfer 
the  ownership.  The  guarantee  against  eviction  operates 
after  transfer  has  been  effected.  With  reference  to  the 
transfer  of  ownership  Maasdorp  {Bit :  2  p.  59)  says  that  to 
pffept  a   va^icl  transfer   jt  is    essential  that  the  transferor  be 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

the  owner  of  the  thing,   and   referring   to    this  essential  he 
adds  (p.  eo).— 

"  It  is  almost  unnessary  to  remark  that  a  delivery 
made  by  a  person  who  is  not  the  owner,  nor  authorised  by 
express  mandate  or  authority  to  act  for  the  owner,  is  void." 

Further  on  (^;.  64)  he  says: — "  If  there  be  any  dif- 
ference of  opinion  as  to  the  thing  which  is  being  deliver- 
ed the  contract  will  be  void  for  the  want  of  the  necessary 
consensus," 

Again  (/>,  75)  he  says  : — "  As  regards  the  general  re- 
quisities  of  the  trar  sf er  of  ownership  ....  it  may  be 
stated  that  under  our  system  of  registration  of  land  a  trans- 
fer of  immoveable  property  by  any  other  than  the  owner, 
except  by  means  of  forgery  or  fraud  which  would  make  a 
transfer  void,  is  impossible." 

Speaking  of  the  Cape  system  of  registration  of  land  he 
says  (p.  71): — "Our  law  with  respect  to  the  registration  and 
transfer  of  immoveable  property  is  derived,  not  from  the 
Roman  Law,  which  drew  no  great  distinction  between  the 
delivery  of  moveable  and  the  transfer  of  immoveable  pro- 
perty, but  from  the  customs  of  the  Netherlands." 

The  Ceylon  Law  requires  deeds  of  transfer  of  laud  to 
be  registered  but  it  does  not  make  unregistered  deeds  alto- 
gether void  (Ordinance  14  of  1891,  section  17)  so  it  may  be 
that  in  Ceylon  the  transfer  of  land  by  a  person  who  is  not 
the  owner  is  not  impossible  in  the  absence  of  forgery  or 
fraud. 

In  my  opinion  equity  must  decree  relief  against  an 
obligation  to  take  a  void  transfer,  void  on  account  of  the 
vendor  not  being  the  owner  or  void  for  the  absence  of  the 
necessary  consensus  consequent  upon  the  difference  of 
opinion  as  to  the  thing  which  is  being  delivered.  There  is 
no  good  reason  to  assume  that  Roman-Dutch  Law  would  not 
decree  a  rescission  of  the  contract  in  such  a  case  before  deli. 


133 


Jains 

V 

Suppa 
Umma 

Ennis  J. 


124 


COURT     OF    APPEAL     CASES. 


Jains 

V 

Suppa 
Umma 

Ennii  J. 


very  of  possession.  There  is  on  the  contrary  reason  to  be- 
lieve that  it  could  and  would  so  decree. 

The  customs  of  Netherlands  relaxed  the  strictness  of 
the  Roman-Dutch  Law  and  allowed  contracts  to  be  supple- 
mented by  the  equity  of  the  Court.  These  customs  re- 
quired something  more  than  delivery  of  possession  to  effect 
a  valid  transfer  of  ownership,  there  was  a  "solemn  cession" 
in  the  presence  of  a  Judge,  and  it  may-well  be  that  if  the 
Judge  kept  a  record  of  these  transactions,  the  transfer  of 
land  by  any  other  than  the  owner  except  by  forgery  or 
fraud,  was  in  the  Netherlands,  as  in  the  Cape,  an  impos- 
sibility. 

In  Ceylon  also  the  delivery  of  possession  only  does  not 
operate  as  a  valid  transfer,  for  by  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840 
not  only  must  the  contract  of  sale  be  in  writing  notarially, 
executed  but  the  transfer  also  must  be  in  writing  notarially 
executed  before  it  has  any  force  or  avail  in  law.  The  deed 
transferring  title  aud  uot  the  naked  delivery  of  possession 
is  now  the  essential  act  of  transfer  under  a  contract  lor  the 
sale  of  land. 

A  passage  in  Vuet.  18. 1.  5.  dealing  with  the  effect  of 
a  mortgage  of  brass  as  gold,  in  my  opinion  indicates  the 
position  taken  by  the  Roman-Dutch  Jurists  viz  ;  that  con- 
tracts void  for  want  of  the  requisite  consent  acquired  vali- 
dity only  when  they  were  ratified.  Voet.  says  {Berwick 
p.  10).— 

"  For  it  must  be  considered  that  although  the  mortgage 
of  brass  as  gold  is,  if  we  have  regard  to  its  inception,  void 
for  want  of  the  requisite  consent,  it  acquires  validity  when, 
on  the  fraud  or  mistake  being  discovered,  the  creditor 
nevertheless  ratifies  it,  reckoning  it  better  to  have  at  least 
that  rather  than  no  security  at  all;  very  much  in  the 
same  way  as  a  purchase  which  once  has  been  brought  about 
by  fraud,  although  null  ah  i/dtiu,  way  nevertheless  be  con- 
firmed by  the  person  Avho  was  fraudulently  induced  to 
to  enter  into  the  contract  if  he  considers  it  an  advantageous 
one  for  himself  in  spite  of  the  fraud." 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  125 

Vuet.  18. 1.  24  {Berti'ick  n.  20)  again  says: — "  The  sale  is      Jains 
complete  as  soon  as  the   parties   have   agreed  to  the  coninio-      Suppa 

difcy   and    the  price and  it   cannot  then  be  re-      Umma 

ceded   from    unless there  still  remains    some-  de  Sampayo 

thing  to  be  done. 

In  this  case  a  notarially  executed  transfer  remained  to 
be  done  and  prior  to  that  the  sale  can  apparently  be  receded 
from. 

The  authorities  cited  agree  that: — 

1.  A.  person  who  unknowingly  accepted  a  fraudulent 
transfer  could  take  action  before  eviction. 

2.  A  person  who  knowingly  accepted  a  fraudulent 
transfer  could  not  take  action  before  eviction. 

3.  A  person  who  knowingly  accepted  a  ho)ia  Ude 
transfer,  which  subsequently  turns  out  to  be  bad  must  wait 
till  he  is  evicted  before  he  can  bi'ing  action. 

4.  A  person  who  accepts  a  bona  ft  de  tiansfer,  knowing 
it  to  be  bad  could  not  take  action  before  eviction. 

But  no  authority  has  been  cited  for  the  proposition 
where  that  where  the  proposed  transfer  is  bad  or  doubtful  a 
person  has  no  alternative  but  to  accept  it  and  wait  for  eviction. 

My  view  of  the  case  is  that  the  circumstances  are  such 
that  it  is  only  fair  and  in  accordance  with  good  faith  that 
the  appellants  should  have  the  relief  they  seek,  .  no  conclu- 
sive authority  having  been  shown  that  such  relief  was  not 
open  to  them  under  Roman-Dutch  Law. 

I  would  allow  the  appeal. 

De  Sampayo  J. — His  Lordship  having  set  out  the  facts 
as  above  continued: — 

Mr.  Bawa  for  the  appellant  first  of  all  addressed  to  us 
an  argument  to  the  effect  that  the  1st  defendant  was  guilty 
of  fraud  or  misrepresentation   iu   that  she   had  not  given  to 


126  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 


Jains       plaintiff  all  the   information  she  possessed  as  to  her  title  to 
Suppa     the  property,   and    that   his   agreement  was  on  that  ground 
Urama      avoided.     Even  the  English  Law,  which  was  relied  on,  does 
de  Sampayo  not  Seem  to  go  that  length.     It  is  summarised   in  the  ''Laws 
of  England  "  Vol.  25  section  502   as  follows :     "  A  contract 
for  the    sale    of    land    is  not  a  contract  uherrimae  Mei,  in 
which  there  is  an  absolute   duty  upon    each  party  to  make 
full  disclosure  to  the  other  of  all  material    facts  of  which  he 
has   knowledge,    I>ut   the   contract  may  be  avoided  on  the 
ground  of  misrepresentation  fraud    or   mistake   in  the  same 
way    as  any    other    contract."       Now    in    this     case    no 
such  fraud  or  misrepresentation  was   pleaded   in  the  plaint 
or  formulated  in  the  issues  nor  was  any  evidence  put  before 
the  Court  on  that  point.     As  a  matter  of  fact    the  1st  defen- 
dant had   an  absolute  conveyance  for   the   property   in  her 
favour,  though  this  conveyance  referred  to  the   deed   of  gift 
in  f avc  ur  of  her  vendor.     The  vendor's   deed  of   gift,    even 
if  she  were  in  fact   aware  of  its  terms  would  not  necessarily 
inform  her  of  the  title   being    other  than  vdlid.     She  caused 
the  property  to   be  advertized   for  sale   by    public   auction 
thus  giving  would-be  purchasers  every  opportunity  to  make 
due  inquiry  as    to  the   title.     It  was    obvious  in  these  cir- 
cumstances that   the  appeal   could   not   reasonably   be   sus- 
tained so  far  as  the  suggestion  of  fraud  or  misrepresentation 
was  concerned,  and  Counsel  for  the  appellant,  secondly  took 
up  the  position   that,   apart   from   fraud    and  misrepresent- 
ation  it   was   the  duty    of   the    1st  defendant  as  vendor  to 
make  out  a  good  title  in  order  to  entitle  her  to  performance 
by  the  plaintiff   of  his  agreement  to  purchase. 

I  need  not  examine  the  English  authorities  relied  on 
by  appellants'  Counsel.  It  may  be  assumed  that  under  the 
English  Law,  in  the  case  of  a  sale  of  real  property,  the 
vendor  should  deduce  good  title  before  the  contract  can  be 
enforced,  and  for  that  purpose  should  furnish  an  abstract  of 
title  and  do  other  things  which  are  well-known  in  the  law 
of  conveyancing.  But  these  requirements  are  relevant  to 
a  system  of  law,  which  in  regard  to  the    mutual  obligations 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  127 

of  vendor  and  purchaser  of    immoveable    property   and  the      Jains 

consequences  of  the  completion   of   a  sale  is  quite    different     Suppa 

from  the  Roman-Dutch   Law   by  which   we  are   governed.  .  U^™™* 
TT     1        1      T-1  It  **®  Sampayo 

Under  the  English   Law    after   completion  of   the   contract         J. 

the  transaction  is  at  an  end  as  between  vendor  and  pur- 
chaser and  as  a  general  rule  no  action,  either  at  law  or  in 
equity,  can  be  maintained  by  either  party  against  the  other 
for  damages  or  compensation  on  account  of  errors  as  to 
quantity  or  quality  of  the  property  sold,  unless  such  error 
amounts  to  a  breach  of  some  contract  or  warranty  contained 
in  the  conveyance  itself."  (Laws  of  England  Vol.  25  sec- 
tion 845)  This  appears  to  me  to  furnish  the  reason  why 
under  the  English  Law,  before  the  purchase  is  completed  by 
a  conveyance,  the  vendor  is  required  to  satisfy  the  pur- 
chaser on  the  question  of  title. 

Further,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  Englsih  Law  is  ex- 
pressly excluded  by  the  proviso  to  section  1  of  the  ordi- 
nance No.  22  of  1866.  That  Ordinance  introduces  the 
English  Law  with  respect  to  certain  subjects  but  it  is  pro- 
vided inter  alias  that  nothing  therein  contained  should  be 
taken  to  introduce  into  this  Colony  any  part  of  th'3  law  of 
England  relating  to  the  conveyance  or  assurance  .of  any 
land  or  other  immoveable  property.  It  is  clear  that  this 
refers  not  to  mere  forms  of  conveyance  as  was  argued  but 
to  the  obligations  of  the  vendor  and  purchaser  of  real  pro- 
perty. Under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  there  is  in  every  sale 
an  implied  covenant  to  warrant  and  defend  the  title,  and 
the  nature  of  the  remedies  available  to  the  purchaser  is  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  peculiar  obligations  of  the  vendor  even 
after  the  sale  is  completed  by  conveyance.  The  first  obli- 
gation of  the  vendor  is  to  afford  vacant  possession  to  the 
purchaser,  and  in  default  the  purchaser  has  an  immediate 
right  of  action  ex  empto  against  the  vendor  for  rescission  of 
the  sale.  The  second  obligation  is  to  warrant  and  defend 
the  title  against  any  trespasser,  and  if  the  purchaser  is  leg- 
ally evicted  in  the  rei  vindicatio  action  he  can  sue  his  ven- 
dor for  compensation  in  the  action  de  rvictione  provided  he 


128  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Jains  has  given  him  timely  notice,  Subject  to  these  obligations 
sJppa  of  the  Vendor  and  the  remedies  of  the  purchaser,  a  person, 
Umma  ^^^  g^^j^  ggjj  ^^^isxt  does  not  belong  to  himself.  Voet.  18. 
de  Sampayo  1-14  says  "it  matters  little  whether  what  is  sold  is  the  pro- 
perty of  the  vendor  or  not,  in  as  much  as  he  is  bound  to 
purchase  the  same  thing  elsewhere  and  fulfil  his  contract 
unless  he  prefers  to  be  condemned  in  damages  if  he  know- 
ingly sold  another's  property.  For  if  he  acted  in  good  faith 
he  is  no  further  bound  than  for  the  delivery  of  vacant  pos- 
session and  is  only  liable  in  damages  for  the  id  quod  interest 
in  the  case  of  judicial  eviction"  (Berwick's  Translation 
p.  19.).  Maasdorp  in  his  Institutes  Vol.  2  pp.  133  and  134 
says. — "  The  thing  sold  need  not  necessarily  be  the  property 
of  the  vendor,  as  there  may  be  a  valid  sale  of  the  property 
of  a  third  party,  provided  it  is  made  bona  fide.  The  duty 
of  the  vendor  in  such  a  case,  if  he  has  made  delivery  to  the 
purchaser,  is  to  guarantee  the  latter  against  eviction,  and  if 
he  has  not  yet  given  delivery,  he  is  bound  either  to  acquire 
the  thing  and  deliver  it  to  the  purchaser  or,  in  default,  to 
pay  the  latter  compensation  in  damages.  "  Maasdorp  in 
this  passage  adds" — If  the  vendor  knowingly  sells  property 
which  does  not  belong  to  him  to  a  buyer  who  ii  ignorant 
of  the  fact,  so  as  wilfully  to  expose  the  latter  to  the  danger 
of  eviction,  the  vendor's  conduct  will  be  regarded  as  frau- 
dulent and  the  buyer  will  in  such  a  case  be  entitled  to  bring 
an  action  of  damages  against  him  even  before  he  is  himself 
evicted.  The  commentary  in  2  Nathan  699  is  to  the  same 
effect.  In  this  case  as  I  have  already  observed  want  of  hona 
fides  on  the  part  of  the  1st  defendant  was  neither  alleged 
nor  proved,  and  the  circumstances  negative  it.  In  my  view 
the  plaintiff's  only  remedy  will  be  an  action  for  damages 
in  case  of  default  of  delivery  of  possession  or  in  case  of 
eviction  after  such  delivery,  and  in  either  case  he  must  in 
the  first  instance  fulfil  his  own  agreement.  His  present 
action  seems  to  me  to  be  premature.  These  principles  of 
the  Roman-Dutch  law  are  explained  and  excepted  in  Ala- 
(jicnransa  Ourunansr  v.  Don  HendricJf  ^  and  Bahaihamy 

U     {1910)     IS.  N.  L.  R.  225. 


COURT    OF    AiPPEAL    CAsElS.  129 

V.  Danchihamu}  See  also  Voet.  19-1-11  and  2  Burge  540  Jains 
and  541.  This  passage  in  Surge  is  important,  because  it  Suppa 
appears  from  it  that  even  if  the  purchaser  discovers  a  de-  ^mma 
feet  in  the  title  after  the  sale  and  before  the  execution  of  de  Sampayo 
the  conveyance  he  ig  still  bound  to  pay  the  purchase  money 
and  accept  the  conveyance.  The  case  of  Rat  watte  o.  Dulleire,^ 
cited  to  us  in  this  connection,  when  examined,  will  de  found 
not  to  be  contrary  to  the  principles  above  stated.  For,  there, 
a  third  party  was  in  possession  claiming  title  under  the 
vendor's  predecessor  in  title  and  resisted  the  purchaser,  and 
this  Court  held  that,  the  vendor  manifestly  not  being  in  a 
position  to  deliver  vacant  possession,  the  purchaser  who  had 
paid  the  full  purchase  money  and  thus  was  entitled  to  re- 
ceive the  agreed  consideration  viz  :  free  possession  of  the 
property,  was  not  bound  to  accept  a  conveyance  and  embark 
upon  a  litigation  with  the  party  in  possession  but  could  re- 
sort at  once  to  an  action  for  rescission  of  the  sale.  In  the 
present  case  it  is  not  alleged,  and  the  circumstances  do  not 
show,  that  ar^y  third  party  is  in  possession  of  the  property 
or  that  the  1st  defendant  is  not  in  a  position  to  make  deli- 
very. I  do  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  l)y  "vacant  pos- 
session" is  meant  such  possession  as  may  be  legally  main- 
tained against  the  claims  of  third  parties.  The  plaintiff  in 
this  case  does,  not  deny  that  the  1st  defendant  is  in  actual 
possession  and  is  able  to  deliver  possession  to  him  in  pursu- 
ance of  the  sale.  The  1st  defendant's  vendor  Alvaroo  is 
still  alive  and  cannot  dispute  his  own  sale  to  1st  defendant. 
He  may  live  for  30  years  from  the  date  of  the  gift  to  him, 
or  he  may  die  leaving  legitimate  children,  and  in  either 
case  the  1st  defendant's  possession  can  be  maintained.  The 
plaintiff  cannot  be  allowed  to  proceed  upon  a  speculative 
fear  of  a  possible  loss  of  possession  upon  contingencies 
which  may  never  happen.  Of  course,  if  he  be  ultimately 
evicted  at  some  time  or  other  by  some  party   claiming  to  be 


1,     1913     16.  N.  L.  E.  245. 
S.     1907     10.  N.  L.  R.  304. 


130  COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

Jains      entitled    after    Alvaroo's    death,    he    would    still  have  his 
Suppa      remedy  by  the  action  de  evictione  against  the  1st   defendant 
Umma     fo^n^ed   on   the   covenant   to   warrant    and   defend.     The 
de  Sampayo  Roman  Dutch  law  being  much  as  I  have  here  stated  it:  it  will 
■'■         be  seen  that  there  is  not  the  same  necessity  ss  in  the  English 
law  for  the  vendor  to  make  out  a  good  title  at  the  outset  un- 
less   he    has    expressly    agreed     to   do    so.     With    regard 
to    the     actio     redhibitorid      and   activ     qucmti     minoris 
which     are    available     to    purchasers    under    the  Roman- 
Dutch  Law  and  with  which  it  was  sought   to  identify    this 
case  I  need  only  remark  that  they    relate  to  claim  for  latent 
defects  of  the  thing  sold  and  not  to    defects   in  the  vendor's 
title.      Mr.     Bawa,     however     referred    us    to    Marshall's 
Judgment  page  46,   where   it   is   stated    that  "  in  matters  of 
dispute  between  auctioneers  and   their   employers,    whether 
buyers  or  sellers,  recourse  may  generally   speaking,  be  had 
for  the  guidance  of  litigants,   to   the  English   or    Civil  Law 
indifferently,   and  he  thereupon  argued  that  this  case  might 
well  be  decided  by   the  principles   of  the    English  Law.     I 
do  not  think  this  passage  in  Marshall  is  of  assistance  in  this 
matter.     The  passage  occurs   in    a  chapter  on  the  law  relat- 
ing to  auctioneers   and  discusses  the  rights  and  liabilities  of 
auctioneers  under  the  old  regulation  !No.  12  of  1825,  and  the 
learned  author  in  that   connection   refers   to  a  decision  in  a 
case  where  the  defendant  as  auctioneer  had  sold  a  land   and 
called  upon  the  plaintiff  to  pay   the    purchase  money  to  the 
vendor,  promising  that   he   the   auctioneer   would    get  the 
titles  for  the  plaintiff  in  a  month,  and  where  the  Court  held 
that,  as  it  turned  out  that  the   vendor   had   no    right  to  the 
land  the  defendant  was  personally  liable  to  the   plaintiff  for 
what  had  been  paid  on  the  strength  of  the  defendant's    pro- 
mise.    The  ruling  of  the  Court  turned  upon  the    special  cir- 
cumstances of   that   case,  and   while   the   the  English  Law 
might  be  applied  to  a  case   between  principal  and    agent  as 
indeed  the  later  Ordinance  of  1866  expressly   provides,  it  is 
not  applicable  to  a  case   between  vendor  and  purchaser  of 
land  as  such.     For  these  reasons   I   am    of  opinion  that  the 
1st  defendant  is  not  Ijound  to    satisfy  the  plaintiff  in  regard 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  131 

to  her   title    to  the   land    before   the  plaintiff  performs  his     Jains 
agreement  to  purchase.     It  might,  of  course,    be  different  if      Suppa 
the  conditions  of  sale  had  stipulated  to   convey  good   title     Umma 
but  they  do  not.  ■*"  ^^P"'^" 

The  above  judgment  was  written  after  the  argument  in 
appeal  before  me  and  my  brother  Ennis  and  I  would  also 
have  been  prepared  to  deal  with  the  question,  which  was 
argued  before  us,  whether,  assuming  that  the  first  defendant 
was  bound  to  make  out  good  title,  her  vendor's  title  was 
in  fact  defective  by  reason  of  its  being  burdened  with  a 
^deicommissum.  But  the  argument  before  the  Full  Court 
was  confined  to  the  first  point,  inasmuch  as  if  that  was  held 
against  the  plaintiff,  it  would  dispose  of  plaintiff's  whole 
case.  It  is,  moreover,  undesirable  that  the  question  oifidei- 
coinmisftum  should  be  decided  incidently  in  this  case  in 
the  absence  of  the  parties  claiming  under  the  fidfiicuminissum 
It  is  therefore  unnecessary  for  me  to  go  into  the  question 
of    the  validity  of  the  1st  defendant's  title. 

• 

In  my  opinion  the  judgment  appealed  against  is  right 
and  this  appeal  cannot  succeed  on  its  merits.  But  Mr.  Bawa, 
for  the  appellant  desired  that  in  the  event  of  the  Court  be- 
ing against  him  on  this  appeal  his  client  should  at  least  be 
given  relief  against  a  for  feiture  of  the  money  paid  by  him 
and  be  allowed  now  to  complete  his  purchase.  In  all  the 
circumstances  of  the  case  I  think  it  is  fair  to  grant  this 
relief.  The  order  therefore  will  be  that  on  payment  by  the 
plaintiff  of  the  balance  purchase  money  within  such  time  as 
the  District  Judge  may  fix  the  1st  defendant  should  grant 
a  conveyance  of  the  property  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff  in 
terms  of  the  conditions  of  sale,  and  that  in  failure  of  pay- 
ment the  decree  appealed  against  should  stand.  In  any 
event  the  plaintiff  should  pay  the  costs  of  the  action  and  of 
this  appeal. 

Proctors  for  appellant. —  Weerasooriya  and    Wijenaike. 

Proctors  for  respondent. — Goonewardene  and  Wi/e- 
gooneivardene, 


132  COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES. 

WELAIDAN    CHETTY  r.   PIYARATNE    UNANSE. 

No.    21750    D.     C.     Kandy. 

Present :  Wood  Renton,  A.  C.  J.   &  Pereira  J. 

7ih  Octobeir  1913. 

Jus  Retentionis— right  of  a  tenant  to  retain  jmses.fion— inchoate  right 
— cannot  be  assigned  nor  seized  in  execntion. 

The  right  of  a  tenant  under  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  to  retain 
possession  is  an  inchoate  right  and  is  neither  assignable  nor  capable 
of  being  seized  and  sold  at  a  Fiscal's  sale  under  a  writ  against  the 
tenant. 

Ilnmbold  r.  AniVigappa  Chetty\  followed. 

Pel-  Pereira  J. — In  my  opinion  a  jiis  retentionis  is  a  real  right 
which  may  be  alienated  by  the  person  who  is  ( ntitled  to  it  or  sold  by 

the  Fiscal  by  process  of  execution  against  him It  is  in 

my  opinion  as  much  a  real  right  as  the  right  of  a  unfructuary 
mortgagee  over  the  property  rmortgaged.  When  however  the, /us  rc- 
tentionis  alone,  that  is  to  say  the  right  independently  of  the  debt 
which  gives  rise  to  it  is  sold  either  by  the  person  entitled  to  it  or  in 
execution  against  him,  what  the  purchaser  becomes  entitled  to  is  the 
right  to  retain  the  property  that  is  subject  to  the  right  until  the 
debt  is  paid  to  the  seller  or  execution  debtor.  But  when  the  debt 
also  is  sold  then  the  purchaser  is  placed  in  exactly  the  same  position 
as  the  seller  or  execution  debtor  and  he  may  retain  the  property  until 
the  debt  is  paid  to  himself.  This  appears  to  me  to  be  the  only 
difference  between  a  sale  of  only  a  jus  retentionis  and  a  sale  of  a 
jH.i  retentionis  together  with  the  debt  on  which  it  depends. 

H.  J.  G.  Pereira  for  appellant. 

S.  A.  Jayeirardene  for  respondent. 

Wood  Renton  A,C.J.— The  material  facts  in  this  case 
are  stated  by  the  learned  District  Judge,  and  I  do  not  pro- 
pose to  repeat  them.  He  has  disposed  of  the  plaintiff-appel- 
lant's action  on  the  first  issue,  namely,  whether  the  plaint 
discloses  a  cause  of  action  against  the  defendants.  The  Dis- 
trict Judge  holds  that  the  present  case  is  governed  by  the 
decision  of  the  Pull  Court  in  Hiimhold  v.  Nana  Pana  Lana 
Andiyappa   Ghetty}      It   was  held   in   that   case  by  Chief 

1.    8S.C.C.61. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL     CASES.  133 

Justice  Burnsicle  that  the  right  of  a  tenant  under  the  Roman-    Welaidan 
T^   .  ,    T  ■  .  ^    Chetty 

Dutch  Law  10  retain  possession  is  at  most  an  inchoate  right         v 

in  the  tenant  himself,  and  is  neither  assignable  nor  capable  ^{fn^gg^ 
of  b(  ing  seized  and  sold  at  a  Fiscal's  sale  under  a  writ 
against  the  tenant.  Mr.  Justice  Clarence,  while  he  did  not 
use  such  a  clear  and  confident  language  as  that  employed  by 
the  Chief  Justice,  said  that,  as  then  advised,  he  was  not  pre- 
pared to  say  that  a  right  of  such  a  character  was  one  cap- 
able of  being  seized,  sold  and  assigned  ;  and  added  that  in 
any  case,  it  could  not  be  dealt  with  in  that  manner  unless 
there  had  been  a  transfer,  in  the  nature  of  an  assignment,  of 
the  right  itself.  Mr.  Justice  Dias  thought  that  a  right  to 
compensation  according  to  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  was  a 
saleable  interest.  But  he  too  associated  himself  with  the 
view  of  Mr.  Justice  Clarence  that  the  interest  must  be  sold 
by  the  Fiscal  if  it  is  to  pass  by  a  Fiscal's  sale.  It  is  obvious 
from  the  facts  as  stated  by  the  learned  District,  that  we  are 
here  in  presence  of  circumstances  substantially  identical 
with  those  on  which  the  decision  in  Httmhold  v.  Nana 
Pana  Lana  Andiyaji/ia  Chetty^  depended,  and  I  agree  with 
the  District  Judge  that  we  are  bound  by  the  authority  of 
that  case. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Pereira  J. — I  agree  to  the  order  proposed  by  my  Lord 
the  Acting  Chief  Justice  as  I  think  it  is  necessary  that  we 
ehold  follow  the  decision  of  the  Full  Court  in  the  case  of 
Hmnhold  v.  Nana  Pana  Lana  Andiynppa  Chetty}  I 
should,  however,  like  to  observe  that  in  my  opinion  a /ws 
retentiunis  is  a  real  right  which  may  be  alienated  by  the 
person  who  is  entitled  to  it  or  sold  by  the  Fiscal  by  process 
of  execution  against  him.  It  has,  in  effect,  been  held  by 
Bonser,  C.  J.  in  the  case  of  de  Siiva  v.  Shnik  Alf  that  the 
right  is  alienable.  It  is,  in  my  opinion,  as  much  a  real  right 
as  the  right  of  a  usufructuary  mortgage  over  the  property 
mortgaged.     "When  iiovf  ever,  the  jus  retentuniis   alone,  that 

;.     (1887)     8  S.  a  C.  61,  2.     {1895)     1  N.  L,  B.  228. 


134  COURT     OF     APPEAL    CASES. 

is  to  say,  the  right  independently  of  the  debt  which  gives 
rise  to  it  is  sold  either  by  the  person  entitled  to 
it  or  in  execution  against  him,  what  the  pur- 
chaser becomes  entitled  to  is  the  right  to  retain 
the  property  that  is  subject  to  the  right  until  the 
debt  is  paid  to  the  seller  or  execution  debtor.  But  when 
the  debt  also  is  sold,  then  the  purchaser  is  placed  in  exactly 
the  same  position  as  the  seller  or  execution  debtor,  and  he 
may  retain  the  property  until  the  debt  is  paid  to  himself . 
This  appears  to  me  to  be  the  only  difference  between  a  sale 
ofonlya.?»s  retentioiiis  and  a  sale  of  a  iws  r^ten<w««s  to- 
gether with  the  debt  on  which  it  depends. 

ARUNASALEM  ;-,  RAM  AS  AMY  NAYAKER. 

No.   ;!lU53  D.  C.   Colombo. 

Pi-pfimt :  Lascelles  C.  J.  &  de  Sampayo  J. 

12t.h  January  1914. 

Pi'exfription — action  for  uvifjes — part  jJin/ment — aeli)ioioledf/ment  of 
inileltedni'ss  and  jjromisp.  to  pay  balance — rehi/ttal  of  acJinowledgment  hy 
special  elrcnnisfanrcs — bitnten  of  p>'oof. 

A  payment  on  account,  of  a  debt,  whether  such  debt  at  the  time 
of  payment  is  already  statute-barred  or  not  is  necessarily  an  acknow- 
ledgment of  the  debt,  and  the  law  in  the  absence  of  anything  to  the 
contrary  implies  from  the  acknowledgment  a  promise  to  pay  the 
balance. 

The  implication  of  such  promise  may  be  rebutted  by  any  special 
circumstances  attending  the  payment  and  the  burden  of  proving  such 
circumstances  is  upon  the  defendant. 

./.  Joseph  for  the  defendant-appellant. — The  action  was 
instituted  on  the  29th  May  1913,  therefore  the  plaintiff's 
claim  for  wages  prior  to  ,20th  May  1912  is  prescribed.  The 
only  payment  which  the  plaintiff  pleads  as  taking  the  case 
out  of  prescription  was  made  in  September  1912,  The 
occurrence   of  one   single   item  of   payment  within  a  year 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  133 

before  action  brought   will   not   take   the  claim  out  of  pres-  Arunasalem 
cription.     Usiif  Saib  r.  Ptmchimeni/ra}      Farther    the  pay  Ramasamy 
ment  must  be  made   under  circumstances    implying  an  ac-    ^^y^^s' 
knowledgment  of  indebtedness  on  the  part  of  the  defendant  de  Sampayo 
and  a   promise   to    pay  the  balance.     Silva  l\  Don  Lewisr 
The  mere  fact  of  payment  will    not   bar  prescription  unless 
these   circumstances   are   proved.     Murugupillni  v.  Muttc- 
lingani?    The  burden  of  proving  such  circumsfances-  is  up- 
on the  plaintiff. 

Arulanandan  for  the  plaintiff-respondent. — The  case 
of  Usuf  Saih  v.  Puncliiineniha^  has  no  application  here. 
That  was  a  case  of  goods  sold  ami  delivered  and  the  facts  are 
quite  different.  Part  payment  of  a  debt  is  an  acknowledg- 
ment of  the  debt  and  the  inference  from  such  payment  is 
that  the  debtor  promises  to  pay  the  balance  unless  there  are 
special  circumstances  which  disprove  such  inference.  The 
burden  of   proving   such    circumstances  is  upon  the  debtor. 

'-■.  a,  V. 

De  Sampayo  J. — The  plaintift'  who  was  employed  as 
a  dairyman  under  the  defendant  sues  the  defendant  for  a 
sum  of  R350-50  as  balance  of  wages  due  to  him  from  1st 
July  1910  to  20  May  1913.  The  payments  for  which  credit 
has  been  given  wei-e  made  to  the  plaintiff  in  September 
1912.  The  action  was  instituted  on  19th  May  1913,  and 
the  defendant  pleads  that  the  plaintiff's  claim  for  wages 
prior  to  39th  May  1912  is  barred  by  prescription.  The 
point  for  consideration  on  this  appeal  is  whether  the  pay- 
ments in  September  1912  take  the  case  out  of  prescription. 
The  district  Judge  relying  on  MoorthiapilJai  v.  Sioalmmi- 
nathapillai*  has  decided  the  question  in  the  affirmative  ;  I 
think  his  decision  is  right.  Counsel  for  defendant; 
however    cited     Silva     v.     Dun     Luis^     and     contended 


{1904)     1  Bed  36.  2.     (1897)     7  Tanth  74. 

(1894)     S  0.  L.  K.  92.  4.     (1910)     14  N.  L.  R.  30. 


136  COURT  OF  APPEAL  OASES. 

Arunasalem  that   it    should    have     been     proved    by      evidence     that 

Ramasamy  the   payments   were     made    under     circumstances   imply- 

Nayaker    ^^^   ^^    acknowledgment   of  indebtedness   and   a   promise 

de  Sampayo  to  pav  the  balance.     This  contention,  so  far  as  it  means  that 
J  ' 

it  was  for  the  plaintiff  to  prove  anything  more  than  the  fact 

of  an  absolute  payment  on  account  is  not  well  founded. 
Neither  in  the  English  Statute  of  Limitations  nor  in  our 
Ordinance  of  Prescription  is  there  any  express  provision 
regulating  the  effect  of  a  part  payment;  all  that  liOrd  Ten- 
terden's  act  and  our  Ordinance  No.  22  of  1871  do  is  to  pro- 
vide that  the  enacments  requiring  an  acknowledgment  to  be 
in  writing  shall  not  alter,  take  away,  or  lessen  the  effect  of 
any  payment  of  any  principal  or  interest." 

The  reason  for  the  absence  of  such  express  provision  is 
obvious.  A  payment  on  account  is  necessarily  an  acknow- 
ledgment of  the  debt,  and  the  law  in  the  absence  of  anything 
to  the  contrary  implies  from  the  acknowledgment  of  the 
debt  a  promise  to  payt  he  balance.  Fordha'v  v.  Wall  is} 
This  implied  promise  creates  a  new  obligation  and  takes 
the  debt  out  of  the  operation  of  the  statute,  and  this  is 
so  even  though,  at  the  date  of  payment  the  debt  may  have 
been  already  statute-barred.  Of  course  the  implication  of 
a  promise  may  be  rebutted  by  any  special  circumstances 
attending  the  payment  as  where  the  payment  is  not 
on  account  but  purports  to  be  in  satisfaction  of  the  entire 
demand.  {Taylor  u.  HollarcP  )  or  where  the  debtor  says 
he  will  not  pay  the  balance  {Waininan  v.  Kyninan^  ) 
or  where  the  payment  is  compulsory  under  some 
legal  proceeding  {Morgan  v.  Boivlands'^ )  such  as  are 
I  think  the  cii'cumstances  alluded  to  in  the  case 
cited  from  7  Tamh  14  but  in  the  present  case  there  is 
an  entire  absence  of  such  qualifying  circumstances.  The 
evidence  shows  that  the  payments  made  in  September  1912 
were  so  made  by   the  defendant  without   any  reservation  on 


1.     {1869)     lO  Hare  325. 

3.     {1902)     1  K.  B.  676. 

8.     {1S47)     Ex.  lis. 

4.     {1872)     7Q.B.498. 

COURT     OF    APPEAL    CA-SES.  137 

account  of  the  accumulated  arrears  of  salary  due  to  plaintiff 
at  that  date.  If  anything  further  took  place  between  the 
parties  sufficient  to  "  alter  or  take  away  or  lessen  the  effect"  of 
the  payments,  it  was  for  the  defendant  to  satisfy  the 
Court  on  that  point,  and  in  the  absence  of  such  evidence, 
the  defendant  by  his  payments  not  only  acknowledged  the 
existence  of  the  debt  but  must  be  taken  in  law  to  have  pro- 
mised to  pay  the  balance.  In  my  opinion  the  payments 
took  the  case  out  of  the  operation  of  the  Ordinance,  and  the 
defendant's  plea  of  prescription  cannot  be  sustained. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Lascelles  C.  J. — I  entirely  agree. 

Apjjf'd/  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  appellant — liajarutrtain  &  Vandei'gert. 
Proctor  for  respondent — /.  H.  R.  Josi'ph. 


VYTIANATHAN    CHETTY    v,    MEENATCfil  d   al 

No.  33(147  D.  C.  Colombo. 

Present:    Pereira  &   Ennis  J  J. 

10th  September  1913. 

TIotchjMit—niHation—Bumaii-Diitch  Lair  not  applicabU  —  Ordinuiice 
U  of  1876 'i  39 — ameiiilmeiit  of  deci-ee — deem-  in  accordance  ivit/i  Jiidi/- 
me.nt — remedy — appeal — Cicil  Procedure  Code  §  ISO. 

The  Roman-Dutch  Law  as  to  collation  was  superseded  by  §  39 
of  Ordinance  No.  15  of  1876.  Under  that  section  collation  takes  place 
only  when  a  parent  gives  property  to  his  children  either  on  the  occ- 
asion of  their  marriage  or  to  advance  or  establish  them  in  life. 

A  decree  can  only  be  amended  in  terms  of  §  189  of  the  Civil  Pro- 
cedurd  Code. 

When  there  is  nO  inadvertant  omission  in  the  judgment  an 
application  to  amend  tie  decree  does  not  fall  within  the  scope  of 
§  189  and  the  remedy  is  to  appeal  from  the  decree  or  judgment. 


138 


COURT     OF     APPEAL     OASES. 


Vytianathan        j^.  W.  Jayeivcirclene  (with  F.  H.  B.  Koch)  for  appellant 
V.         in  appeal  2iO  A. 

Meenatohi  .  i  o  i  a    -d 

et  ai  H.  A.  Jayewai  dene  ior  appellant   m    appeal  ^40   ti. 

Pereira  J.  Morgan  de  Sarant  for  appellant  in  appeal  240  C. 

Morgan  de  Saram  for  respondents  in  appeals  240  A. 
and  240  B. 

Wadsu'orth  for  respondent  in  appeal  240  C. 

Pereira  J. — Appeal  No.  240  A.  by  the  1st  defendant 
and  appeal  No.  240  B.  by  the  3rd  defendant  involve  practi- 
cally the  same  points.  The  two  points  pressed  before  us 
were  (1)  that  the  plaintiff  should  have  brought  into  hotch- 
pot or  collation  the  lands  177  and  178  Ley  Street  given  by 
Selvanayagam  to  his  son-in-law  Kandappa  Chetty 
i  on  the  occasion  of  his  marriage  with  Selva- 
nayagam's  daughter  and  (2)  that  Meenatohi  had  pres- 
criptive possession  of  the  property  in  claim  in  this  action. 
As  regards  the  1st,  a  great  deal  of  Roman-Dutch  authority 
was  cited,  but,  clearly,  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  as  to  collation 
was  superseded  by  section  39  of  Ordinance  No.  15  of  187li. 
Under  that  section,  collation  takes  place  only  when  a 
parent  gives  property  to  his  children  either  on  the  occasion 
of  their  marriage  or  to  advance  or  establish  them  in  life. 
In  the  present  case,  property  was  given  by  Selvanayagapi 
not  to  his  daughter  but  to  his  son-in-law.  If  he  intended 
the  property  to  go  to  his  daughter  there  was  nothing  easier 
than  to  execute  the  conveyance  in  her  favour.  It  is  in  vain 
to  speculate  as  to  the  motives  that  induced  Selvanayagam  to 
make  a  gift  to  his  son-in-law,  suffice  it  to  say  that  motives 
are  conceivable  which  preclude  the  idea  that  it  was  intended 
that  the  daughter  should  not,  in  due  time,  get  her  fair  share 
of  the  remaining  property  of  the  estate  of  Selvanaygaui. 

On  the  2nd  point  pressed  it  is  clear  that  prescription 
could  not  run  against  the  plaintiff  as  she  was  a  minor.  It  was 
argued  that  Meenatchi's  possession  began  in  the  life  time  of 
lier  father  but  of  this  there  is  in  my  opinion  no    satisfactory 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  139 

evidence.     I  would  dismiss  appeals  240  A.  and  240  B.  with 
costs. 

In  appeal  240  C.  the  appellant  [plaintiff]  appeals  from 
an  order  of  the  District  Judge  dated  the  21st  May  191.'5  re- 
fusing to  amend  the  decree  already  entered  up  in  the  case. 
A  decree  can  only  be  amended  by  the  District  Judge  in 
terms  of  §  189  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  but  the  appel- 
lant's application  did  not  fall  within  the  scope  of  that  sec- 
tion. It  was  based  on  the  assumption  that  there  was  an  in- 
advertant  omission  in  the  judgment  by  the  District  Judge 
but  the  order  appealed  from  clearly  shows  that  the  District 
Judge  was  not  prepared  to  recognise  th^t  there  was  any  such 
omission.  That  being  so,  the  present  order  is  right.  The  ap- 
pellant's remedy  was  to  appeal  from  the  decree  or  judgment. 
I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Ennis  J. — I  agree. 

Appeal  dismissfid. 

Proctor  for  appellants — <S'.  N.  Astrvathen. 

Proctor  for  respondents — G.  E.  0.  Weeresinghe. 


WIJESINGHE  V.  DINGIRI  APPUHAMY. 

No.  4414  D.  C.  Kurunegala. 
Present :  Pereira  &  de  Sampayo  J.J. 

17th  June  1913. 

Mortgage — sale  of  mortgaged  lands  to  third  party — concealment  of  sale 
—transfer  in  favour  of  mortgagee— discharge  of  mortgage  debt— mortgagee' s 
deed  of  transfer  inefectual-rei-iral  of  mortgage— where  several  lands 
moHgaged— Court  has  power  to  direct  sale  in  any  ordei — Ciril  Procedure 
Code  Xo.  S  of  1S89  §  SOI. 

The  1st  and  4th  defendants  mortgaged  two  fields  to  the  plaintiff 
on  29th  August  1909  by  deed  A  registered  on  3rd  September  1910,  and 
by  another  deed  B  of  9th  September  1910  the  1st  defendant  mortgaged 


140  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Wijesinghe  a  share  of  another  field.  On  13th  September  1910  the  1st  defendant 
.  ^  .  .      sold  his  share  of  the  fields  to  the  2nd  defendant  by  deed  C  registered 

Arouhamj  °^  22nd  September  1910.  On  13th  December  1910  the  1st 
defendant   concealing  the   fact   that  he  had  parted  with  his  rights  in 

de  Sampa:  o^j^g^g  ggj^g  transferred  them  to  the  plaintiff  by  deed  D  and  obtained 
a  discharge  of  half  the  debt  due  on  A  andthe  entirety  of  the  debt  due 
on  B.  The  2nd  defendant  transferred  all  his  rights  in  the  fields  to  the 
3rd  defendant  by  deed  ADs  dated  29th  February  1912. 

Held,  that  if  the  deeds  C  &  AD-'j  are  to  be  deemed  to  have  the 
effect  of  rendering  ineffectual  deed  D.  in  the  plaintiff's  favour  the 
plaintiff's  rights  on  the  mortgage  bonds  A  &  B  must  be  taken  to 
have  revived. 

Silca    ('.    Silvaw  Elufis  Appvhamy  r.  Moisex  Feniitndo'^   followed. 

Jlehl  also,  that  under  §  201  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  it  is  com- 
petent to  the  Court  to  give  directions  as  to  the  order  in  which  mort- 
gaged properties  should  be  sold. 

H.  A.  Jayeirarfl/'ne  ior  the  plaintiff-appellant. — Where 
a  inorlgagee  purchases  property  morlgaged  by  private  sale 
and  where  such  purchase  is  invalidated  by  the  act  of  the 
mortgagor  himself,  the  mortgage  debt  revives  (see  Silvd  v. 
S'ilva^  ;  Elariii  Apjiuhniuy  v.  Aloises  Fernando-  ;  Voet.  30, 
5.  10.  BerivicFa  Trannlation  p.  JS6.)  The  bona  fides  of  the 
3rd  defendant  on  which  the  learned  Judge  has  placed  so 
much  stress  in  his  judgment  does  not  affect  the  plaintiff's 
rights.  The  plaintiff's  deed  of  transfer  being  declared  in- 
valid, his  rights  on  the  mortgage  bonds  A.  and  B.  revive. 

F.  M.  de  Saram  for  the  respondent,— The  oases  cited 
have  no  application.  In  Sih'ci  v.  Silva  the  deed  in  favour 
of  the  mortgagee  was  void  from  its  inception  inasmuch  as  it 
was  executed  pending  a  seizure.  In  the  present  case-the 
deed  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff  only  became  void  by  reason 
of  the  2nd  defendant's  diligence  subsequent  to  the  execution 
of  deed  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff.  On  the  execution  of 
deed  D  the  mortgage  bonds  A  and  B  became  extinguish- 
ed and  they  cannot  be  revived  except  by  fresh  document 
(see  Ordinance  No.  7  of.  1840). 


1.     13N.L.N.33.     S.     nmeii  T^au-  Hf.purts^n.a,     1906.) 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CSAES.  L41 


Even  if  the  debt  revives  the  mortgagee  cannnot  discuss  Wijesinfrhe 
the   properties  in   any    order   he    pleases.     There  are  some     Dingiri 
lands  unaffected   by    the   conveyances  in  favour   of  the  2nd  ^ppuhamy 
and  3rd  defendants,   and   the  mortgagee   should  be  ordered  de  Sampayo 
to  discuss  those  before  the  others.     Section  201  of    the  Civil 
Procedure  Code  empowers  the  Court  to  give  such  directions 
(see  also  Wickremasinghe  v.  Puiichi  Banda^ ). 


H.  A.  Jayeivardenr  in  reply, — A  mortgagee  in  exe- 
cution cannot  be  restricted  to  discuss  any  particular  part  of 
the  mortgaged  property  before  the  other  (see  Gooneaehere  v. 
De  Silver  ;  Voet.  SO.  4.  4). 

e.  a.  V. 

Pereira  J. — In  this  case  i  think  that  the  District  Judge 
is  right  in  his  decisions  on  the  questions  of  fact  involved 
If,  however,  the  deeds  C  and  AD''  are  to  be  deemed  to 
have  the  effect  of  rendering  ineffectual  deed  D.  (of  the  13th 
JDecember  1910)  in  the  plaintiff's  favour,  then,  clearly,  the 
plaintiff's  rights  on  the  mortgage  bonds  (A  and  B)  granted 
by  the  1st  and  4th  defendants  must  be  taken  to  have  re- 
vived. This  view  is  well  supported  by  the  decision  in  the 
ca^eoiSilva  V.  Silra^  see  also  Elan's  A/jj/tihamy  v.  Moises 
Ferna7ido*  and  also  by  the  principle  u.nderlying  tlie  law 
enunciated  by  Voet  in  20.  5. 10  and  20.  6.  1  of  his  comment- 
aries which  do  not  appear  to  have  been  cited  in  the  argument 
in  Silva  v.  Silva.  No  doubt  that  in  that  case,  the  convey- 
ance to  the  mortgagee  was  rendered  ineffectual  by  reason  of 
a  pi'ior  registered  seizure  of  the  property  conveyed,  but  I  do 
not,  on  that  account,  see  that  the  ratio  decidendi  of  that 
case  does  not  apply  to  this.  1  think  that  the  plaintiff  is  en- 
titled to  judgment  in  terms  of  the  2nd  alternative  prayer 
in  his  plaint  but  I  would  remit  the  case  to  the  Court  below 
to  define  the  exact  terms  of  the  judgment  which  should  be 
entered  in  his  favour.     It  appears  that  in  the  prosecution  of 

1.     2  C.  A.  a  4S.  2.     S.  a.  B.  195. 

3.     13  N.  L.  B  33.        4.     Times  Law  Beparts  11.  2.     1905, 


142  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Wijesing-he  the  1st  defendant  for  fraud  the  plaintiff  was  allowed,  pvesn- 
Di^giri     mably  under  section  482  of  the  Criminal   Procedure  Code,  a 

Appuhamy  certain  Sum,  as  compensation,  out  of  the  fine  imposed  on 
de  Sampayo  the  1st  defendant.  It  is  also  stated  that  it  would  be  to  the 
"'•  benefit  of  all  parties  concerned  that  the  Court  should  give 
certain  directions  as  to  the  order  in  which  one  or  more  of 
the  lands  moi-tgaged  should  be  sold  in  view  of  the  fact  that 
there  are  some  lands  unaffected  by  the  conveyances  in 
favour  of  the  2nd  and  3rd  defendants.  I  think  it  is  quite 
competent  to  the  Court  to  give  such  directions  under  section 
201  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  That  section  gives  autho- 
rity to  the  Coiirt  to  give  such  directions  as  it  may  think  fit 
as  to  the  conduct  of  the  sale,  and  I  think  that  the  words 
used  are  wide  enough  to  include  [where  there  are  several 
distinct  properties  made  executable  for  satisfaction  of  the 
decree]  directions  as  to  the  order  in  which  such  properties 
should  be  sold  so  that  a  pai'ty  may  not  be  prejudiced  by 
their  sale  in  an  order  that  is  manifestly  unfair  and  un- 
reasonable and  ill-calculated  to  secure  the  most  satisfactory 
results.  I  would  set  aside  the  judgment  appealed  from  and 
remit  the  case  to  the  Court  below  to  enter  up  judgment  as 
indicated  above  subject  to  such  directions  as  the  District 
Judge^  after  hearing  both  parties,  may  think  fit  to  give  as  to 
deducting,  in  terms  of  section  432  (3)  of  the  Criminal  Pro- 
cedure Code,  from  the  amount  claimed  the  whole  or  any 
part,  if  at  all,  of  the  compensation  receivt  d  by  the  plaintiff 
as  stated  above,  and  as  to  the  order,  if  any,  in  which  the 
District  Judge  may  deem  it  desirable  that  the  properties 
mortgaged  should  be  sold. 

I  think   that   the    appellant  should    have   his    costs  of 
appeal. 

De  Sampayo  J. — I  agree. 

Sft     aside. 
Proctor  for  appellant— 2;;.  G.  Gooii/'ivardmc. 
Proctor  for  respondent — Fred  Daniels, 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  143 

AYANOHf^MY     r.     SILVA. 

No.  9394  C.   R.   Balapitiya. 

Prcwiit :  Pereira  J. 

1st  December  1913, 

Appeal  agreement  to  abide,  h.ij  ileclskin  of  Court  must  he  acquiesced  in 

bu  opjwsitejiarttj—prescr'ipfio/i—poisesiiioH  of  another's   land   in  bona  fide 

though  mistaJcen  belief  it  is  hin   own — what  m>ist   be  prored   in    possessory 
action — adrerse  possession,   wlmt  is. 

The  defendant,  who  claimed  title  to  a  land  by  prescription,  stated 
in  reply  to  a  question  put  by  the  Court  in  the  course  of  his  exami- 
nation, "If  I  have  even  by  mistake  gone  and  planted  that  land  I  am 
prepared  to  abide  by  the  order  of  the  Court."  In  spite  of  the  defen- 
dant's undertaking  his  Counsel  pressed  the  plea  of  prescription  and  that 
plea  the  commissioner  upheld  in  his  judgment  but  at  the  same  time 
condemned  the  defendant  to  pay  the  plaintiff  R25.  Each  party 
appealed  against  the  part  of  the   decree  that  was  adverse  to  himself. 

Held,  that  the  defendant's  undertaking  did  not  prevent  him  from 
appealing  against  the  judgment  of  the  Court. 

Pereira  J. — (1)  An  undertaking  of  this  nature  to  have  a  binding 
effect,  should,  in  my  opinion,  be  given  in  a  more  formal  and  solemn 
manner  than  in  the  shape  of  a  casual  answer  to  a  question  put  by 
the  Court  in  the  course  of  the  examination  of  a  party  as  a  witness. 

(2)  In  the  next  place  such  an  undertaking  as  that  mentioned 
abovs  can  be.of  no  avail  unless  the  opposite  party  is  prepared  to  ac- 
cept the  decision  ofl  the  Judge. 

Balmnhamy  i.  Andris  Appu'^  ;  Gunuratne  r.  Andradii  differentiated 
A  person  who  possesses  property  in  the  bona  fide  (aXheit  mistaken) 
belief  that  the  property  is  his  own  and  belongs  to  nobody  else  has 
clearly  the  deteiitiouniiiiodomiui  and  such  possession  is  "adverse  posses- 
sion" within  the  meaning  of  §  3  of  Ordinance  No.  22  of  1871- 
Daniel  r.  MariliarS;  Carrim  r.  Bholl*  referred  to. 

Pereira  J. — We  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  definition  in  English 
Law  of  either  the  term  "possession"  or  the  term  "adverse   possession. 

Possession   under  the    Roman-Dutch   Law  is  either 

Possessio  Civilis  or  Possessio  Naturalis.  Possessio  Civilis  is  deteritio 
animo  domini.  It  is  this  possession  that  is  necessary  to  be  proved 
where  a  person  seeks  either  any  of  the  possessory  remedies  or  to  es- 
tablish a  title  by  prescription. 

1.     5.  Bed.  89.  2.     S  G.  A.  C.  60. 

3.     Bam  1843-58  jj.  9.  4.     2  C.  L.  B.  iS. 


144  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES, 

Ayanohamy  This  is  an   appeal   against   a    judgment  of  the  commis- 

Silva       sioner   of  Requests  of  Bilapitiya  (fi". /.  V.  Ekaiuojahe  Esq.) 
p     .      J  The  plaintiff  sued  the   defendant   for   the  recovery  of  a 

price  of  land.  The  defendant  pleaded  prescription.  The 
learned  Commissioner  decreed  the  land  in  favour  of  the 
defendant  but  ordered  him  to  pay  the  plaintiff  R25  as  com- 
pensation. The  defendant  appealed  against  the  order  to  pay 
compensation  and  the  plaintiff  against  the  order  declaring 
the  defendant  entitled  to  the  land. 

A  St.  V.  Jayeirardvnc  for  the  plaintiff-rejpondent. — 
The  defendant  is  not  entitled  to  appeaL  He  undertook  to 
abide  by  the  decision  of  the  Court  (see  Buhun  liaimj  v. 
Andris  AppK^ ).  {Peirira  .J.  In  that  case  both  parties 
agreed  to  be  bound  by  the  decision  of  the  Judge,  whereas 
in  this  case  only  one  party  did  so).  That  is  immaterial 
(see  Gooneratne  v.  Aiidrddi''  ).  The  defendant  cannot  plead 
prescription  as  he  entered  into  possession  under  a  mistake. 
He  had  not  the  an  iinm  necessary  for  p'escriptive  possession 
(see  Frrnando  v.  Jlrnihv'^  ;  Angdlon  Limitations  p  390). 

E.  W.  Jaye/rardeiw  for  tiw  defendant-appellant.— The 
preliminary  objection  fails  as  no  formal  undertaking  was 
given  by  the  defendant  to  abide  by  the  Judge's  order.  It 
was  merely  an  answer  to  a  question  put  by  the  Court. 
Besides  it  is  manifestly  unfair  that  the  defendant 
should  be  bound  by  such  an  undertaking.  It  is  clear  that 
the  plaintiff  was  not  prepared  to  accept  the  decision  of  the 
Judge.  The  cases  cited  are  different.  In  (hineratne  v. 
A?idradi'  though  the  undertaking  was  by  the  plaintiff 
alone,  the  defendant  had  acquiesced  in  it. 

The  pasfage  cited  from  Auf/rJ/  oi,  Limitations  does  not 
apply.  There  the  intention  to  claim  title  is  absent.  If  a 
mistake  is  persisted  in  and  possession  for  1(1  years  follows, 
then    prescriptive   title    is   obtained.     Adverse  possession  is 


^-     ■'^  Ba\.39.  2.     :]..C  A.G.  69. 

S.     (1906)     SBal.llS, 


COURT  0^    APPEAL  CASES.  U5 


possession  unaccompanied   by   payment   of    rent  or  produce ^yanohamy 
or  performance  of  service  or  duty.  (See  §  -5  nf  Ord.  22  of  1811       Siha 
also  !>«/(/"/ 1'.  Mari/mr'    ;    Carim  i\DholI.-)  Tlie  Roman-  Ptreira   J. 
Dutch  Law  is  different  fro.n  the  English  Law.     The  Roman - 
Dutch  Law  requires  ovrujtat/o  ct  uninms.Those  two  require- 
ments are  present  here. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayeiva/c/ene  in  reply. 

c.  a.  r. 

Pereira,  J. — There  are  cross-appeals  in  this  case.  The 
Commissioner  declared  the  defendant  entitled  to  lot  A.  on 
figure  of  survey  No.  141  and  condemned  him  to  pay  the 
plaintiff  R25.  Each  party  has  appealed  against  the  part  of 
the  decree  that  is  adverse  to  himself,  and  I  shall  deal  with 
both  the  appf  als  in  one  judgment.  The  Commissioner  has 
held  that  the  defendant  has  had  possession  of  the  portion  of 
land  in  claim  for  over  the  prescriptive  period.  I  have  read 
the  evidence  carefully,  and  on  this  point  I  need  only  say 
that  the  balance  of  testimony  appears  to  me  to  support  the 
Commissioner's  finding.  Two  points  have  been  urged  by 
the  plaintiff's  Counsel.  (1)  That  the  defendant  had  no 
right  to  appeal  in-as-much  as  he  had  consented  to  abide  by 
the  order  of  the  Court  on  the  question  as  to  possession  ;  (2) 
That  the  defendant  could  not  be  said  to  have  had  adverse 
possession  of  the  land  in  claim  in-as-much  as  he  possessed 
the  land  by  mistake,  that  is  to  say,  in  ignorance  of  the  fact 
that  it  belonged  to  the  plaintiff.  It  has  been  sought  to  sup- 
port the  first  contention  by  a  reference  to  the  defendant's 
evidence  where  he  says:  If  I  have  even  by  "mistake  gone 
and  planted  that  land  I  am  prepared  to  abide  by  the  order 
of  the  Court."  In  the  first  place,  an  undertaking  of  this 
nature  to  have  a  binding  effect,  should,  in  my  opinion,  be 
given  in  a  more  formal  and  solemn  manner  than  in  the 
shape  of  a  casual  answer  to  a  question  put  by  the  Court  in 
the  course   of   the   examination  of  a  party  as  a  witness.     In 

1,     {1900)     3  Bui  IIU.  2.     2  (J.  L.  1{.  18. 


14(1  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Ayanohamy  jjjjg  connection  I  may  observe  that  the    Commissioner  in  his 
Silva      judgment  says  that  in  spite  of  the  defendant's    undertaking 

Pereira  J  ^'**  Counsel  urged  the  plea  of  prescription,  and  that  plea 
the  Commissioner  has,  in  effect  upheld.  In  the  next  place, 
such  an  undertaking  as  that  mentioned  above  can  be  of  no 
avail  unless  the  opposite  party  is  prepared  to  accept  the  de- 
cision of  the  Judge.  The  plaintiff,  in  the  present  instance, 
did  not  acquiesce  in  the  decision.  The  above  two  conditions 
appear  to  have  been  fulfilled  in  the  cases  cited  as  authorities 
in  support  of  the  contention.  As  regards  the  2nd  point 
pressed,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  fact  that  the  defendant  was 
not,  at  the  time  of  his  possession  of  the  land  in  claim,  aware 
that  it  belonged  to  the  plaintiff  rather  strengthens  his  claim 
based  upon  pi'escription.  He  was  a  ho)ia  lide  possessor,  and 
while  a  inaJa  fide  possessor  might,  just  as  well  as  a  bona  fide 
possessor  maintain  a  claim  by  prescription,  it  is  clearer,  if 
anything,  in  the  case  of  the  latter,  that  the  possession  was  a 
possession  on  his  own  account.  It  has  been  argued  that  the 
possession  of  a  person  possessing  in  the  belief  that  the  thing 
possessed  is  not  the  property  of  another  is  not  adverse  pos- 
session, and  English  authorities  have  been  cited.  We  have 
nothing  to  do  with  the  definition  in  English  Law  of  either 
the  term  "Possession"  or  the  term  "adverse  possession." 
Both  these  terms  are  fully  discussed  in  the  Encyclopaedia 
of  Laws  Vol.  I.  p.  160,  and  Vol.  13,  p,  228. 
(1st  edition)  and  it  will  be  found  that  there  are  points  of 
essential  difference  in  what  is  laid  down  there  and  our  own 
conception  of  the  terms.  Possession  under  the  Roman- 
Dutch  Law  is  either  Possessio  civilis  or  Possessio  naturalis. 
Possessio  civilis  is  detent io  animu  domiiii.  It  is  this  posses- 
sion that  is  necessary  to  be  proved  where  a  person  seeks 
either  any  of  the  Possessory  Remedies  or  to  establish  a 
claim  by  prescription.  Where  a  person  is  in  occupation  of 
pvopei-ty  in  the  bona  fide  (albeit  mistaken)  belief  that  the 
property  is  his  own  and  belongs  to  nobody  else,  clearly  he 
has  the  detentio  aniiiio  doinini.  The  next  question  is 
whether  his  possession  is  adverse.  As  to  that,  we  have  to 
look  for  guidance  within  the  four  corners  of    our  own  Ordi- 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  147 

nance  relating  to  prescription  of  actions.  The  words  in 
Section  ;$.  "A  possession  unaccompanied  by  payment  of 
rent  or  produce  or  performance  of  service  or  duty  or  by  any 
other  act  by  the  possessor  from  which  an  acknowledgement 
of  a  right  existing  in  another  person  would  fairly  and 
naturally  be  inferred"  have  been  held  by  this  Court  to  con- 
tain not  an  illustration  but  a  definition  of  "'adverse  posses- 
sion" (see  Daniel  v.  Markar^  ;  Carrirn  v.  Dhollr  ).  The 
possession  by  the  defendant  in  the  present  case  manifestly 
answers  to  the  description  given  in  the  definition  mentioned 

above. 

I  set  aside  the  judgment  appealed  from,  dismiss  the 

plaintiff's  claim,   and    enter  judgment  for  the  defendant  for 

lot  A. 

The  defendant  will  have  his  costs  in  both  courts. 

Sft  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellant — TT^  de  Silra. 

Proctor  for  respondent — N.  de  Ahcift. 

MOHAMMADO     SALI     v.    AYESHA    UMMA 
No.  8766  D.  C.   Batticaloa. 
Present:  Lascelles  C.J.  &   Sampayo  J. 

23rd  January  191-t. 

Deed  of  donation — donation  hy  grandmother  to  minor  grand-children— 
iirceptance  Ijy  graiid-tinclr — revocation  of  deed  and  sale  hy  donor  to  grand- 
vncle— prior  registration  of  deed  of  snie—linowledge  of  i)riov  deed— 
Ordinance  Xo.  14  of  1S!J1  §  17. 

The  first  defendant  executed  a  deed  of  donation  of  certain  lands 
in  favour  of  the  plaintiffs,  her  minor  grand  children,  in  1905.  The 
donation  was  accepted  by  the  2nd  defendant,  brother  of  the  1st  and 

I.     (1906)     8  Bal  115,  S,     SCL.B.IS, 


548  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

Mohammado  grand-uncle  of  the   minors.     In  1908   the   1st  defendant   revoked   the 
Sali         deed  of  donation  and  sold    the  lands  to   the  2nd  defendant.     The  deed 
i,   ^  u       of  sale  was  registered  before  the  deed  of  donation. 

Umma  //^Zrf,  That  the  deed   of  sale    prevailed   by    virtue  of  prior  regist- 

ration, over  the  deed  of  donation. 

The  mere  notice  of  the  deed  of  donation    will  not  deprive  the  2nd 
defendant  of  the  benefit  of  his  registration. 
Aserappa  r.   Weeretinige'^ 

Ohitei;  Lacelles  C.J^^— The  words  "fraud  or  collusion  in  securing 
such  prior  registration"  are  limited  to  cases  where  the  fraud  or 
collusion  has  occured  in  the  act  of  se.curing  the  registration  so  that 
the  registration  itself  is  vitiated  thereby. 

E.  W.  Jaypiuardene  for  defendants  appellants. 

The  deed  of  sale  in  favour  of  the  2nd  defendant  is 
registered  before  the  deed  of  the  plaintiff.  Therefore  it 
gains  priority  over  the  plaintiff's  deed.  {Afierappa  v.  Mulhii- 
rriruppm  CliPtly-  ■.Kirihnmy  r.  Kirihanda^  Tilnrihancla  v. 
Liilmhancla*  ) 

The  plaintiffs  are  estopped  from  questioning  the  vali- 
ditj'  of  the  transfer  in  favour  of  the  2nd  defendant.  They 
acquiesced  in  the  revocation  of  their  own  deed  and  they 
further  accepted  the  life  interest  over  the  other  land  which 
was  renewed  by  the  1st  defendant  in  her  original  deed  of 
donation. 

A  St.  V.  Jaijrn  ardviie  (witli ./.  Joseph)  for  respondents. 

The  prior  registration  of  the  2nd  defendant's  deed  will 
not  give  him  the  benefit  of  the  Registration  Ordinance. 
He  has  perpetrated  a  fraud  on  the  plaintiffs.  He  originally 
accepted  the  donation  on  behalf  of  the  minor  plaintiffs. 
Then  getting  a  transfer  of  the  land  in  his  favour  he  seeks  to 
avoid  the  plaintiff's  deed  by  prior  registration.  This  is 
fraud  as  contemplated  by  §  17  of  the  Registration  Ordi- 
nance and  the  defendant  cannot  be  allowed  to  take  advant- 
age of  it. 

c.  a.  r. 

1.  (1911)     14N.L.n.S84.     3.     (1911)     14  N.  L.  Tl.  417. 

2.  (1911)     14  N.  L.  R.  413.      4.     (19L?)     15  N,  L.  7?.  63. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  I-I.9 

Lascelles  C.J — The  material   facts  of  the    case  have  Mohammado 
been  fully  set   out   in   the    careful  judgment  of  the  learned        ^v'' 
District  Judge   and   ii   is  only  necessary  to  refer  to  them  so      ^mto^ 
far  as  they  bear   on   the   single  point    on  which  this  appeal 
turns.  J-ascelle't 

C.J. 

The  first  Defendant  in  190.5  executed  a  deed  of  donation 
in  favour  of  her  grand  children,  the  1st  and  2nd  plaintiffs 
for  two  lands  named  respectively  Puttu  Tottam  and  Illup- 
padikandam  reserving  a  life  interest  to  herself  and  her 
daughter  the  mother  of  the  two  donees.  T'his  donation  is 
stated  to  have  been  made  in  furtherance  of  a  wi^h  expressed 
by  the  1st  defendant's  late  husband  that  the  properties  in 
question  should  go  to  their  descendants. 

At  the  time  of  this  donation  both  the  plaintiffs  were 
considered  to  be  minors  and  the  donation  was  accepted  in 
their  behalf  by  the  Snd  defendant  the  brother  of  the  1st 
Defendant  and  the  great  uncle  of  the   plaintiffs. 

In  190(S  the  1st  Defendant  being  then  in  want  of  money 
purported  to  revoke  the  deed  of  donation  and  sold  the  more 
valuable  of  the  properties  lUupadikandam  to  the  2nd 
defendant. 

Subsequently  the  1st  Defendant  released  her  life  inte- 
rest in  the  other  land  Puttu  Tottam  to  the  plaintiffs  and  also 
conveyed  to  them  the  greater  part    of   her   husband's  estate. 

The  plaintiff  now  seeks  the  cancellation  of  the  deed  of 
revocation  and  of  the  deed  of  conveyance  to  the  2nd 
and  defendant  have  oljtained  a  decree  to  that  effect  in  the 
District  Court. 

On  appeal  the  appellants  Counsel  rested  his  case  on  one 
ground  only  the  effect  of  registration.  He  raised  but  did  not 
press  the  contention  that  the  plaintiffs  were  estopped,  by 
conduct,  from  disputing  the  validity  of  the  revocation  of 
the  donation  and  the  conveyance  to  the  plaintiff's. 

The  case  for  defendants  appellant  is  that  inasmuch  as 
the  conveyan  le  by  the  1st  Defendant  to  the  2nd  defendant 
is  registered    the   previous    unregistered  donation  to  the 


V 

/esl 
tjmma 

Lascelles, 
C.J. 


150  COUET  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Mohamraado  plaintiffs  respondent  on  the  other  hand  contend  and  their  the 
^f       contention  has  been  accepted  by  the  learned    District  Judge 
A-?!f™^     that  the  registration  of  the  conveyance  to  the  2nd  defendant 
was  obtained  by   fraud   and   is   so   within  the  exception  to 
section  17  of  the  land  registration  Ordinance  1891. 

I  am  anable  to  concur  in  this  view.  It  is  well  settled 
that  mere  notice  of  the  deed  of  donation  will  not  deprive 
the  2nd  defendaht  of  the  benefit  of  his  registration  {Aser- 
appa  r.  Wperatiitigp^  )  How  then  can  fraud  in  ob- 
taining the  registration  be  imputed  to  the  2nd   defendant. 

The  view  of  the  learned  District  Judge  is  best  expressed 
"in  his  own  language  "it  appears  to  one  that  defendant's 
"conduct  in  ommiting  to  register  the  gift  to  minors  com- 
"pared  with  the  celerity  with  which  he  registered  his  own 
"amounted  to  a  fraud.  He  was  aware  of  the  wisdom  or 
"necessity  of  registration.  He  was  aware  of  thedonation  to 
"the  plaintiff.  He  himself  accepted  that  deed  for  them.  He 
"did  for  himself  what  he  did  not  do  for  ihem.  He  registered 
"his  own  deed  and  left  out  theirs.  For  him  to  be  allowed  to 
"take  advantage  to  himself  of  his  own  failure  to  do  what  he 
"ought,  in  honesty,  to  his  grand  nephews,  to  have  done,  on 
"their  behalf,  would  be  to  suffer  him  to  perpetrate  a  fraud  on 
infants  for  whom  he  was  agent. 

But  the  circumstances  on  which  the  learned  Judge 
relies  do  not  point  to  any  fraudulent  intention  on  the  part  of 
the  2nd  defendant.  Assuming  for  the  purpose  of  argument  that 
the  2nd  defendant  was  the  agent  or  natural  guardian  of  the 
two  plaintiffs  (which  I  think  is  not  proved  to  be  the  case), 
it  cannot  be  supposed  that  he  deliberately  refrained  from 
registering  the  deed  of  donation  with  a  view  to  his  own 
profit.  For  how  could  he  have  foreseen  that  1st  defendant 
would  fall  into  difficulties   and  offer  the  property  for  sale  r 

At  a  later  date  it  is  equally  impossible  to  convict  him 
of  fraudulent  intention.  The  common  belief  in  the  District  of 

1.     {1911)     14  N.  L.  7?.   284, 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  151 

Batticaloa  as  the  learned  District   Judge    has  told  us,  is  that  Mohammado 

Sali 
deeds  of  donation  such  as  that  in  favour  of  the  plaintiffs  are         v 

revocable.  I  see  no  I'eason  to  doubt  that  when  the  :2nd  def  en-      Ayesha 

Umraa 

dant   bought  the  property  for   good  consideration  he   did  so 

believing   that   the    1st  and  2nd  plaintiff's  interest  in  it  had     ^    «™payj 

been  determined. 

The  fact  that  he  registered  his  deeds  some  months  after 
its  execution  cannot  be  urged  in  proof  of  fraud.  It  is  I 
think  impossible  on  the  evidence  to  hold  that  the  regist- 
ration of  the  2nd  defendant's  deed  was  obtained  by  fraud. 

I  am  disposed  to  think  though  it  is  not  necessary  in 
this  case  to  give  a  ruling  on  the  point  that  the  words  "fraud 
or  collusion  .  .  .  .in  securing  such  prior  registration 
are  limited  to  cases  where  the  fraud  or  collusion  has  occurred 
in  the  act  of  securing  the  registration  so  that  the  registration 
itself  is  vitiated  thereby. 

The  2nd  defendant  in  my  opinion  cannot  be  deprived 
of  the  benefit  of  his  registration  and  I  would  set  aside  the 
judgment  and  dismiss  the  action  with  costs  here  and  in  tlie 
Court  below. 


De  Sampayo  J. — I  am  of  the  same  opinion. 
Proctor  for  appellants — J.  A.  Sethukavalcr. 
Proctor  for  respondents — /.  T.  Tainhirajah, 


150  COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

L\  THE  Matter    of  the  Intestatk    Estate  of  the 
Late  Maria  Pbrera  Deceased. 

PAULIS     PERERA     {AchiiiHistratv7')—etfil. 

r. 

DON     DAVITH     APPUHAMY. 

No.  38G3  D.  C.  Colombo. 

Present:  Lascelles  C.J.  &  de  Sampaj'o  J. 

39th  January  1914. 

Fur/fit  HIV  (if  cut  iiiheritaiwe — i-emuwiation  of  an  iiiherituiii-t — sun  leinr/ 
ijii-en  xoine  jiropertij  liij  deed  fur  and  on  accunnt  of  the  sk'ire  of  the  maternal 
Inheritance  due  to  him — testamentarij  action— roUutiun  or  hotchpot — is-iue 
must  he  raised— point  of  time  at  irhich  party  can  ?/e  uslird  tu  collate,  is 
when  the  shares  of  the  heirs  are  settled. 

The  respondent  is  a  son  of  the  deceased  Maria  Perera  by  her 
1st  marriage.  Prior  to  her  marriage  with  the  1st  app^'llant,  Maria 
Perera  entered  into  a  notarial  agreement  R2  with  one  Abraham  Perera 
the  grandfather  of  the  respondent  who  was  then  a  minor,  whereby 
she  agreed  to  give  to  the  respondent  and  his  sister  when  they  attain 
the  age  of  majority  (1)  one  half  share  of  a  land  of  the  value  of 
R500  "as  their  share  of  their  father  and  mother''  (2)  a  sum  of  RIOOO 
which  had  been  lent  by  her  to  Andris  Perera  by  bond.  ,  .  .  "'as 
from  their  mother,"  In  pursuance  of  the  said  agreement  the  said 
Maria  Perera  by  deed  Ri  conveyed  to  the  respondent  a  land  worth 
R750  and  the  said  deed  contained  inter  alia  the  following  recitals: — 
/As  I  the  said  D.  Maria  Perera  am  bound  by  deed  of  agreement 
'  .  .  .  .  R2  on  promise  of  paying  nnto  my  minor  son  P.  Don 
"Davith  Appuhamy  when  he  attains  the  age  of  majority  for  and  on 
"account  of  the  share  of  matermal  inheritance  due  to  him  the  said 
"P.  Don  Davith  I  Appuhamy  to  be  inherited  by  him.  I  the  s  idD.  Maria 
.'Perera  do  hereby  declare  that  I  give  and  deliver  unto  the  said  P. 
.'Don  Davith  Appuhamy,   for  and  onaccount  of  the  said  sum  of  750, 

"all  that  undivided  one  half  part  of  Kongahawatte 

"And  I  the  said  P.  Don  Davith  Appuhamy  do  hereby  accept  the  said 
portion  of  land  for  and  on  account  of  the  sum  of  R750  which  wss  di- 
"recled  to  be  given  by  my  mother." 

Maria  Perera  died  intestate  and  her  estate  was  being  administer- 
ed in  the  above  action.  In  the  course  of  the  pi'oceedings  the  question 
was  raised  whether  the  respondent   by    virtue  of  the  deeds  Rl  and  R2 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CSAES.  153 

and  anything  he  had  received  thereunder  had   forfeited  his  rights  to  a      Paulis 
share  in  the  inheritance.  erera 

V 

Don  Davith 
Hela,  that  on  any  construction  of  these  two  deeds  the  respondent  Appuhamy 

cannot  be  held  to  have  forfeited  or  renounced  his   claim   to  a  share  in 

the  inheritance. 

Per  LaseellesC.J. — The  question  of  collation  has  been  argued 
•  •  before  us  and  it  is  said  that  the  respondent  is  obliged  to  bring  into 
collation  anything  that  he  has  received  in  these  deeds.  It  is  im- 
possible for  us  now  to  give  a  decision  on  this  point.  It  is  not  an  issue 
in  the  case  and  it  is  an  issue  that  cannot  be  determined.  In  order  to 
decide  the  liability  of  the  respondent  to  bring  the  property  which  he 
has  received  into  collation,  it  must  first  of  all  be  ascertained  whether 
that  property  formed  part  of  his  mother's  estate,  a  matter  which  is  by 
no  means  clear  on  the  deeds  and  can  only  be  decided  after  hearing 
the  oral  evidence.  It  has  been  contended  that  it  was  the  duty  of  the 
respondent  to  offer  to  bring  into  collation  the  property  which  he  has 
received  and  that  it  is  now  too  late  to  raise  the  question- 
I  can  see  no  reason  why  the  qestion  of  collation 
should  not  be  determined  at  the  time  when  the  shares  of  the  heirs  are 
settled, 

A  St.  V.  Jayewardene  for  the  appellant. — The  con- 
struction placed  on  the  deeds  by  the  learned  District  Judge 
is  erroneous.  The  deeds  Rl  and  R2  show,  beyond  doubt, 
that  the  respondent  has  renounced  his  right  to  his  share  of 
his  mother's  estate.  By  Rl  he  has  been  given  a  land  worth 
R750  for  and  on  account  of  the  share  of  maternal  inheri- 
tancr  due  to  him.  This  deed  was  accepted  by  him  and  he 
is  bound  by  its  terms.  At  any  rate  he  must  elect  whether 
he  will  approbate  the  deed  as  a  whole  taking  what  was  given 
to  him  and  relinquishing  his  interest  in  the  mother's  estate, 
or  reprobate  it  as  a  whole  foregoing  the  benefit  of  the  do- 
nation and  retaining  his  interest  in  the  estate.  He  should 
have  brought  what  he  received  into  collation.  He 
has  neither  brought  it  into  collation  nor  offered  to  do  so. 

E.  O.  P.  Jayatileke  for  the  respondent. — The  various 
recitals  in  the  deeds  Rl  and  R2  sufiBciently  indicate  that 
what  was  conveyed  to  the  respondent  was  his  share  of  his 
father's  estate.  Even  if  the  property  formed  part  of  his 
mother'^  estate,   the  respondent   cannot  be  held  to   have 


154  COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES. 

PauUs     forfeited  or  renounced   his   claim    to  a  share  in  the  inherit- 

y         ance.     The   deed   is   a   pure  deed   of    donation.     There   is 

Don  Davith  ^q  express  renunciation  of  his  rights  by  the  respondent.  After 
Appuhamy  a  ^ 

Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840    no  waiver  or  renunciation  of  rights 

C  J  "'  ^^^  ^^  recognised  in  the  case  of  immovable  property  in  the 
absence  of  a  deed.  Besides,  a  person  cannot  renounce  future 
rights.  The  doctrine  of  election  does  not  apply  to  this  case. 
Our  claim  is  not  inconsistent  with  the  deed  in  our  favour. 
We  claim  something  in  addition  to  what  we  have  already  re- 
ceived. The  Roman-Dutch  Law  as  to  collation  has  been  super- 
sededby  §  39  of  Ordinance  15  of  1876,  and  nowcoUation  takes 
place  when  a  parent  gives  property  to  his  children  either  on 
the  occasion  of  their  marriage  or  to  advance  or  establish  them 
in  life  (see  Vaitfanathen  v.  Meenatchi}  ).  Here  the  property 
was  not  given  for  any  of  those  purposes.  But,  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  decide  that  question  as  no  issue  has  been  raised  in 
the  lower  Court,  and  as  the  obligation  to  collate  arises  not  "at 
this  stage  but  only  on  a  division  of  the  estate,  (see  Kulan- 
thfivelu  V.  KandeperumaP  ). 

A.  St.  V.  Jayetvardene  in  reply. 

Lascelles  G.J.— The  question  at  issue  in  these  pro- 
ceedings is  whether  the  respondent  by  virtue  of  the 
deeds  Ri  and  B.^  and  anything  he  had  received 
thereunder,  has  forfeited  his  rights  to  a  share  in  the 
inheritance.  This  was  the  only  matter  at  issue  in  the  Dis- 
trict Court  and  it  is  the  matter  on  whicli  the  appeal  has  been 
taken.  I  am  clearly  of  opinion  that  as  regards  this  point 
the  order  of  the  learned  District  Judge  is  right.  For  1  do 
do  not  think  that,  on  any  construction  of  these  two  deeds 
the  respondent  can  be  held  to  have  forfeited  or  renounced 
his  claim  to  a  share  in  the  inheritance.  Then  the  question 
of  collation  has  been  argued  before  us,  and  it  is  said  that 
the  respondent  is  obliged  to  bring  into  collation  anything 
that  he  has  received  in  these  deeds.  It  is  impossible  for  us 
now  to  give  a  decision  on  that  point.     It   is   not  an  issue  in 

7.     17NLR26.  2,     9  N.  L.  R.  853. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES,  155 

the  case,  and  it  is  an  issue  that  cannot  be  determined.  In 
order  to  decide  that  liability  of  the  respondent  to  bring  the 
property  which  he  has  received  into  collation  it  must  first  of 
all  be  ascertained  whether  that  property  formed  part  of  his 
mother's  estate,  a  matter  which  is  by  no  means  clear  on  the 
deeds,  and  can  only  be  decided  after  hearing  the  oral  evi- 
dence. It  has  been  contended  that  it  was  the  duty  of  the 
respondent  to  offer  to  bring  into  collation  the  property 
which  he  has  received,  and  that  it  is  now  too  late  to  raise  the 
question.  I  can  see  no  reason  why  the  question  of  collation 
should  not  be  determined  at  the  time  when  the  shares  of  the 
heirs  are  settled,  and  although  I  would  not  interfere  with 
the  judgment  of  the  Court  below  on  the  question  of  for- 
feiture, I  do  not  think  that  the  judgment  should  be  under- 
stood as  having  any  reference  to  the  question  of  collation 
which  I  think  can  well  be  raised  and  disposed  of  hereafter. 
The  appeal  I  think  ought  to  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

de  Sampayo  J. — I  agree. 

Ajipeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant — 0.  E.  A.  Samarakudy. 

Proctor  for  respondent — G.  E.  De  Livem. 


FULL    BENCH. 

JAMES     APPU     V.    CAROLIS    APPU. 

No.  8896  D.  C,  Negombo. 

Present :  Lascelles    C.J.    Pereira  &  de   Sampayo  J.J. 

10th  February  1911. 

Begidndhm—gift  hij  anginal  ownei— prior  registration  of  latter  deed, 
effect  of—Ordimiu-e  A'o.  1-i  oflSOl,  §  14. 

Sanchiappu  and  his  wife  Unguhamy  who  were  married  in  com- 
munity of  property  were  the  original  owners  of  certain  parcels  of  land. 
After  Sanchiappu's  death  UnguhamyqX  deed  D8  dated  25th  November, 


156  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

James  Appu  1898  conveyed  a  hilf  share  of  the  lands  to  the   4th    defendant  and  the 

„      ,7,        wife  of  the  3rd  defendant.     After   the    death  of  TJnguhamy,   Sirimal- 
Carohs  Appu 

hamy  one  of  the  four  children  of  Sanchiappu  and  Unguhamy  conveyed 

by  deed  PI  dated  the  18th  January,  1912,  a  fourth  share  of  the  lands  to 

the  plaintiffs.     Deed  PI   was  registered    on  the   22nd  January   1912 

while  deed  D8  was  registered  on  the  7th  August.   1913.    The  3rd  and 

4th  defendants   contended  that  though  PI  was  registered  before  D8 

the  former  cannot    take   priority  over  the    latter  in  so  far  as  the  two 

deeds  cannot  be  said  to  be  derived  from  the  same  source  (Unguhamy). 

It  was  contended  that  Sirimalhamy  cannot  be  regarded  as  the  heiress 

of  her  mother  as  the  latter  by  deed  D8  had  alienated    her   share  in  the 
estate. 

Held,  that  the  plaintiff's  deed   is    entitled  to  priority  over  the  de- 
fendant's deed. 

Pioichirale  r.  Apjmhamy;^  Siloa  e.  Silrai  followed. 

This   is  an   appeal    from   a  judgment    of    the  District 
Judge  of  Negombo  {H.  E.  Beven  Esq). 

B.  W.  BanaK.  G.  (with  de  Zijysa)tov the  appellants.— 
The  plaintiff's  deed  cannot  get  priority  over  the  defendant's 
deed.  They  cannot  come  into  competition  inasmuch  as  they 
do  not  come  from  the  same  source.  Ptmchlrale  v  A'lqmhamy^ 
which  has  been  relied  on  was  rightly  decided  as  there  some 
thing  passed  to  the  heirs.  \_Pereira  J.  But  the  mortgage  exe- 
cuted by  the  intestate  was  wiped  out  in  that  case.]  We 
are  not  concerned  with  what  burdens  are  attached  to  the 
land.  The  heirs  clearly  had  the  dominium.  The  heir  can 
execute  a  deed  only  where  there  is  a  link  of  title  between 
him  and  the  intestate^  But  here  the  intestate  disposed  of 
the  whole  of  the  property  so  that  nothing  passed  to  the  heir. 
Tlie  heir  cannot  sell  anything  more  than  he  inherits 
iPerelra  J.  If  that  is  so,  the  mortgage  should  not  have 
been  wiped  out  in  luncldrale  v.  Apjmhmny'].  A  person 
cannot  inherit  a  burden.  The  heir  was  the  representative 
of  the  man  who  gave  the  mortgage.  The  rights  of  an  in 
testate  are  conferred  by  law  upon  an  administrator.  No 
such  rights  pass  to  the  heir.  [Pereira  J.  Nothing  passes 
to  the  administrator  which  does  not  pass  to  the  heir].     The 

1.     7N.L.R.103.  ...     7N,L.R,284. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL'    CASES.  157 

reason  why  a  deed  from  the  administrator  is  supported  is  that  J&mes  Appu 

V 

the  law  considers  that  there  is  a  link  between  himself  and  Carolis  Appu 
the  intestate  as  if  he  were  a  purchaser  from  the  intestate. 
The  heir  does  not  by  operation  of  law  become  entitled  to 
the  same  rights.  \_Lascelles  C.  J.  The  public  will  not  know 
that  the  intestate  has  disposed  of  the  property].  The  pub- 
lic are  protected.  They  should  not  buy  from  a  person  who 
calls  himself  the  heir.  They  thould  insist  on  administration 
being  taken   out. 

E.  W.  Jayewardene  (with  E.  G.  P.  Jayetileke)  for  the 
respondent. — Punchirale  v.  Appuhamy^  is  directly  in  point. 
On  the  death  of  a  person,  his  heir  succeeds  to  the  estate. 
There  can  be  no  difference  in  the  position  of  an  heir  and  an 
administrator  in  this  case,  as  the  estate  is  under  RIOOO. 
Even  if  the  estate  were  over  RIOOO  there  would  be  no  dif- 
ference (see  the  judgment  of  Bonser  C.  J.  and  Lawrie  J.  in 
Punchirale  v.  Avpuhamy^  ).  Bonser  C.  J.  says  that  the 
Registration  Ordinance  should  not  be  made  a  mere  trap  for 
purchasers.  This  reasoning  is  also  found  in  Warburtun  v. 
LovelancP  a  case  which  is  decisive  of  the  present  case.  The 
rights  of  an  heir  are  greater  than  those  of  an  administrator. 
The  heir  represents  the  intestate ;  the  dominium  of  the 
estate  vests  in  him  ;  he  is  entitled  to  deal  with  the  property 
without  the  assistance  of  the  administrator  (see  Silva  v, 
Silva^  ),  In  such  circumstances  it  is  idle  to  contend  that  the 
deeds  do  not  come  from  the  same  source.  An  heir  can  do 
what  a  person's  representative  can  do  (.seeHoggs  on  the  regist- 
ration of  deeds  in  Australasia  p  121).  If  a  deed  by  a 
personal  representative  obtains  priority  (aa  in  Punchirale  v. 
Appuhamy)  it  follows  that  a  deed  by  the  heir  also  obtains 
priority.  In  Kondiba  v.  Nana^  it  was  held  that  where  an 
instrument  which  was  not  registered  was  executed  by  one 
person  and  another  relating  to  the  same  property  was  exe- 
cuted by  his  heir  after  the  former's  death  by  another  party, 
it  could  not  be  said  that  there  was  no  competition  between 
the  two.  instruments  for  the  reason  that  they   were  executed 

1.  1  N.  L.  R.  102.  3.     10  N.  L.  R.  234. 

2.  2  Dotv.  &  01.  480,  4.     27  Bom  408. 


158  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

JamesAppu  by  diflferent   persoiJS.     The   cases   referred   to  in  Narstam  S 
Caroiis  Appu  Indian  Registration  Act.  p.  113  are  in  point. 

^C  j"'*'  Baiva  K.  C.  in  reply. 

c.a.v. 

Lasc^lles  C.J.— Tnis  appeal  has  been  reserved  for  the 
opinion  of  the  Collective  Court  on  one  only  of  the  several 
points  involved  namely  the  respective  priority  of  the  plain- 
tiff's deed  P  1  and  the  deed  of  donation  D8  in  favour  of  the 
■Ith  defendant  and  Nonohamy. 

For  this  purpose  the  facts  of  the  case  will  be  sufficient- 
ly stated  as  follow: — Sanchiappu  and  his  wife  Unguhamy 
Avere  the  original  owners  of  the  disputed  property.  They  were 
married  in  community.  Sanchiappu  predeceased  his  wife 
who  died  about  twelve  years  ago  leaving  four  children 
Sirimalh^my  one  of  these  children  by  deed  PI  dated  the 
18th  January  1912  and  registered  the  22nd  January  1912 
conveyed  her  one  fourth  share  to  the  plaintiffs. 

The  plaintiffs  title  to  ^th  namely  the  g  th  which  devolved 
on  Sirimalhamy  from  her  mother  is  disputed  on  the  ground 
that  the  latter  by  deed  D8  dated  the  28th  November  1898 
and  registered  the  7th  August  1912  had  conveyed  her  half  of 
the  estate  to  the  5th  defendant  and  Nonohamy.  It  is  not 
disputed  that  ordinarily  the  deed  Pl  would  be  preferred  on 
the  ground  of  priority  of  registration. 

But  it  has  been  doubted  whether  PI  and  D8  can  be 
registered  as  two  conflicting  deeds  derived  from  the  same 
source.  It  has  been  argued  that  Sirimalhamy  as  an  heir 
of  Unguhamy  did  not  fully  represent  her  mother  so  as  to 
carry  on  an  unbroken  line  of  title. 

Counsel  for  the  respondents  referred  us  to  an  elaborate 
exposition  of  the  general  principles  underlying  the  Irish 
registry  act((S  A^vne  eh  2)  in  Warburtun  v.  Loveland}  . 

Making  due  allowance  for  the  difference  between  the 
tw  o  systems  as  regards  the  effect  or  notice  of  the  prior  un- 

1.     2Doto&Cl.480. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  159 


registered  deed  these   principles  are  generally    applicable  to  James  Appu 

y 

the  Ceylon  Registration  Ordinance.  Carolis  Appu 


The  Irish  act   has   for   its   principal  aim  and  object  the  Lwceltef, 
protection  of  the  purchaser  for  valuable  consideration. 

If  an  intending  purchaser  finds  on  the  register  no  ad- 
verse deed  affecting  the  property  he  is  placed  in  the  same 
position  as  regards  his  title  to  the  land  as  if  no  such  deed  in 
fact  existed.  On  the  other  hand  the  grantee  under  the  prior 
unregistered  deed  is  penalised  for  his  failure  to  put  his  deed 
on  the  register.  He  is  taken  to  have  given  out  to  the  world 
at  large  that  his  deed  did  not  exist  and  is  prohibited  from 
setting  it  up  against  the  registered  deed  of  the  subsequent 
purchaser  for  valuable  consideration. 

It  was  contended  by  defendant-appellant's  Counsel, 
though  I  do  not  think  that  he  placed  much  reliance  on  the 
point,  that  Sirimalhamy  cannot  be  regarded  as  the  heiress 
of  her  mother  as  the  latter  by  deed  D8  had  alienated  her 
share  in  the  estate.  But  the  fallacy  of  this  reasoning  is 
obvious.  It  assumes  the  validity  of  the  deed  D8  which  sec- 
tion 14  of  the  land  registration  ordinance  No.  14  of  1891 
declares  shall  be  deemed  invalid  as  against  the  plaintiffs 
deed. 

I  confess  to  some  difficnlty  in  appreciating  the  argument 
that  because  the  plaintiff  purchased  from  an  heir  of  the 
proposit,  his  title  is  not  derived  from  the  proposit.  It  is  said 
that  the  heir  does  not  fully  represent  the  intestate  and  that 
descent  from  an  heir  constitutes  a  break  in  the  chain  of 
title.  If  there  were  any  question  as  to  the  competence  of 
an  heir  to  alienate  immovable  property  without  the  consent 
or  concurrence  of  the  administrator  there  would  have  been 
some  ground  for  the  contention.  But  all  questions  on  this 
point  have  been  set  at  rest  by  the  decision  of  the  full  bench 
of  this  Court  in  Silva  v.  Silvci}  .  If  as  is  unquestionably  the 
case  a  deed  by  an  heir  to  a  purchaser    transmits  to  the  pur- 

1.    10  N.L.B.284. 


160  COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

James  Appuchaser  the  title  which  the  hei:-  derived  from  his  intestate 
Carolis^Appuit  follows  that  the  deed   is  a  Sound  link  in  the  chain  of  title. 

p  .  J  It  is  not  less  effective  for  the  purpose  of  transmitting  title 
than  a  deed  from  one  purchaser  to  another  purchaser.  In 
Punchirala  v.  A2W"'fi(^fny^  tliis  Court  overruled  the  conten- 
tion that  when  there  is  a  conveyance  from  an  intestate  and 
a  subsequent  conveyance  from  his  administrator  these  two 
conveyances  do  not  proceed  from  the  same  source  and  that 
therefore  the  registration  ordinance  does  not  apply.  It  was 
there  held  that  an  administrator  represents  the  intestate  and 
his  estate  is  in  law  identical  with  that  of  his  intestate. 

Now  that  it  is  settled  that  the  heir  can  pass  title  with- 
out the  concurrence  of  the  administrator,  I  think  it  follows 
that  the  estate  of  the  heir  must  be  regarded  as  that  of  his 
intestate. 

For  the  above  reasons  I  am  of  opinion  that  the  plain- 
tiff's deed  PI  is  entitled  to  priority  over  the  defendants 
deed  D8. 

I  understand  that  the  members  of  the  Court  which 
originally  heard  the  appeal  were  agreed  that  appeal  No.  365B 
should  be  dismissed.  As  the  decision  of  appeal  365B  turns 
on  the  point  discussed  in  this  judgment  I  would  dismiss 
both  appeals  with  costs. 

Pereira  J. — In  this  case  two  questions  arose  for  deci- 
sion (1)  whether  the  3rd  and  4th  defendants  had  prescrip- 
tive possession  of  the  parcels  of  land  numbered  2,  5,  and  6 
in  the  plaint  and  (2)  whether  the  deed  PI  in  favour  of  the 
plaintiff  prevailed  over  deed  D8  in  favour  of  the  4th  defen- 
dant and  the  wife  of  the  third  defendant  by  reason  of  prior 
registration.  It  is  only  the  second  question  that  we  are  now 
concerned  with.  The  parcels  of  land  dealt  with  by  the  two 
deeds  referred  to  above  are  those  numbered  1,  3  and  4,  in 
the  plaint.  These  lands  belonged  to  Sanchiappu  and  his  wife 
Ungu:     After  Sanchiappu's   death,  Ungu  by    deed  D8  dated 

;,     7  N.  L.R.  103. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  161 

dated  the   25th  November  1898  conveyed  a  half  share  of  the  Jam«s  Appu 

lands  to  the  4th  defendant  and  the    wife  of  the  3rd  defendantCarolisAppu 

and   after  the   death    of  Unga,    Sirimal   one  of     the    fouj.  p„ei,g  j_ 

children    of  Sanchiappu   and  Ungn    conveyed  by   deed  PI, 

dated  the  18th  January  1912  a  fourth    share   of  the  lands  to 

the  plaintiffs.     Deed  PI    was  registered   on  the  22  January 

1912  while  deed  D8  was    registered  on  the  7th  August  1912 

It  has  been  argued   that  PI  could  not  take    priority  over  D8 

because  as  a  consequence  of  the   execution    of  D8    by  Ungo 

her  share   did   not  devolve  on  her  heirs,    and   Sirimal    had 

therefore  nothing   to   convey,  but    this    argument,  if  sound^ 

would  nullify   altogether   the   operation    of   the  registration 

Ordinance. 


The  policy  and  the  effect  of  the  law   of  registration  are 
such  that  the   mere   fact   that    a  person   who  has   conveyed 
property  had  not  title  to  it,  is  insufficient  to  deprive  the  con- 
veyance of  priority  by  reason  of  prior  registration.  Of  course 
the  ordinary  illustration  is  the  case  of  a   person   who  having 
already  conveyed  to  one  pei'Son  certain  property  purports  to 
convey  the   same  property  by   means    of   another    deed  to 
another   person   but   a    more   apposite   illustration    may  be 
stated  as  follows. — A    conveys   a   parcel    of  land  to     B  and 
then  executes   a   deed   purporting    to  convey  the  same  land 
to  C.  C,  who  at  this   stage    has  no  title  whatever  to  the  land 
executes  a   conveyance   of   it    in  favour  of  D.     The  deed  in 
favour  of  D  surely  by  registration  would  have  priority    over 
that  in  favour  of  B.     Sirimal  in  the  present  case  was  exactly 
in  the  same. position  as  C  in  the  above   illustration  ;    but  for 
the  deed  by  Ungu    he   would  have  had  title  to  the  property 
in  claim   just   as   much   as   C   would   have   had  title  to  the 
property  referred  to  in  the  illustration  but  for  the  deed  exe- 
cuted by  A  in  favour   of  B  and  if  a  conveyance  by  C  could 
by  prior  registration  gain  priority  over  the  conveyance  by  A 
in  favour  of  B.     I  see  no   reason  why  a  conveyance  by  Siri- 
mal, who  but  for   the   conveyance   by  Ungu  would  have  be- 
come entitled  to  the  property,  should  not   similarly  by  prior 
registration  have  priority  over  the  deed  by  Ungu.     The  case 


162  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

James  Appu  appears  to  be  covered  by  authority.  In  the  case  oiPunchi rale  u. 

Carolis  Appu  Ajijniluimy}    Lawrie,  J — observed,  "'if  a  person  by  a  subse- 

"quent  deed  duly  registered  could  defeat  a  prior  unregistered 

de  Sampayo  i      .     .    ,      , 

J.  deed  granted  by  himself,  surely  his   heir   or  administrators 

"could  defeat  a  prior  deed  executed  by  thedeceased."  Itwas  not 
contested  that  it  was  well  settled  law  that  an  administrator's 
conveyance  might  by  reason  of  prior  registration  defeat  a 
conveyance  by  the  intestate.  Now  the  administrator  is  only 
the  intermediary  to  convey  the  property  of  the  intestate  to 
his  heirs.  It  is  only  such  property  as  is  heritable  that  vests 
in  him  and  it  is  therefore  reasonable  to  suppose  that  an  heir 
might  deal  with  such  property,  subject  of  course  to  the 
exigencies  of  administration,  in  any  manner  that  the  admi- 
nistrator might  deal  with  it  specially  as  it  is  accepted  as 
settled  law  that  a  conveyance  of  property  by  the  heirs  of  a 
deceased  person  without  the  concurrence  or  assent  of  the 
administrator  is  valid  subject  to  the  right  of  the  administ- 
rator to  deal  with  the  property  for  purposes  of  administ- 
ration (see  Silva  v.  Silver  ).  The  principles  enunciated  in 
the  case  of  Warhtirtun  v.  Love'and^  cited  by  the  appellants 
Counsel  appear  to  me  to  support  the  view  I  have  expressed 
above.     In  my  opinion  deed  PI  has   priority    over  deed  D8. 

de  Sampayo  J. — There  are  two.  appeals  in  this  case. 
The  appeal  numbered  3G5A  is  taken  by  the  plaintiffs  in  res- 
pect of  the  lands  Nos.  1,  5  and  6,  with  regard  to  which  the 
District  Judge  has  held  that  the  third  and  4th  defendant's 
have  become  entitled  by  prescriptive  possession  to  the  ex- 
clusion of  their  co-heir  Sirimalhamy  who  sold  I  share  to  the 
plaintiffs.  The  District  Judge  so  far  as  the  question  of  pres- 
cription is  concerned  is  clearly  right  and  I  think  that  the 
appeal  No.  365A  should  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

The  other  appeal  No.  365B  is  taken  by  the  2rd  defen- 
dant Carolis  and  his  wife  Nonohamy  with  regard  to  the 
lands  No  1,  3  and  4  of  which  the  District  Judge  has  declared 

1.     7N.L.B.  102.  2.    10  N.  L.  E.  333. 

3.    2  Dow.  J-  Gl.  480. 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES  163 

the  plaihtifEs  to  be  entitled  to  a  i  share.     The  contention  bet-  James  Appu 

V 

ween  the  parties  to  that  appeal  arises  tinder  the  followingOarolis  Apdu 
circumstances.  Sanchiappu  and  his  wife  Unguhamy  were  in  ,  g 
community  of  property  entitled  to  the  said  lands.  They  died  J- 
intestate  leaving  4  children  viz.  1st  defendant,  3rd  defen- 
dant, 4th  defendant,  and  one  Sirimalhamy.  The  plaintiffs  pur- 
chased from  Sirimalhamy  upon  deed  dated  18th  January 
1912  and  registered  on  22nd  January  1912  a  i  share  of  the 
said  lands  as  belonging  to  her  by  right  of  inheritance  from 
her  parents.  But  Unguhamy  after  the  death  of  her  husband 
gifted  her  i  share  to  the  4th  defendant  and  Nonohamy  wife 
of  the  3rd  defendant  by  deed  dated  25th  November  1898 
but  registered  only  on  7th  August  1912,  and  these  defen- 
dants accordingly  claim  that  half  share  by  virtue  of  the  deed 
of  gift  thus  allowing  to  the  plaintiff  by  right  of  purchase 
from  Sirimalhamy  only  an  g  share  and  not  j  share  as  claim- 
ed by  them.  The  District  Judge  upheld  the  claim  of  the 
plaintiffs  on  the  ground  of  prior  registration  of  their  deed. 
The  appeal  heaving  come  before  Wood  Renton  A.C.J.,  and 
myself  the  question  as  to  the  effect  of  prior  registration  of 
the  deed  from  Sirimalhamy  was  referred  to  a  Bench  of  three 
Judges.  There  is  no  question  that  under  the  law  relating  to 
registration  the  competing  deeds  must  proceed  from  the 
same  source,  nor  on  the  other  hand  is  there  any  question 
that  they  need  not  be  granted  by  the  same  person.  The 
only  point  on  which  I  entertained  a  doubt  was  whether 
when  the  owner  has  disposed  of  his  entire  interest  in  a  land 
during  his  life  time  a  purchaser  from  an  h(  ir  as  distinguish- 
ed from  an  admistrator  or  executor  can  create  any  title  by 
the  process  of  registration.  An  administraror  or  executor  is 
for  this  purpose  the  same  person  as  the  deceased.  But 
a  so-cilled  heir  is  in  the  same  position  only  in  res- 
pect of  the  property  left  by  the  deceased  at  his  death  and 
is  not  his  representative  to  any  larger  extent.  It  was  sought 
at  the  argument  of  this  appeal  to  meet  the  point  by  the 
suggestion  that  a  person  who  disposes  of  his  property  has 
still  the  right  or  power  which  would  descend  to  his  heirs  to 
create  a  new    title  by   a  subsequent  deed   duly  registered. 


1G4  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

James  Appu  The  truth  is  that  such  title  is  created  not  because  any  right 
CarolisAppu  or  power  is  still  left  in  the  previous  owner  but  because  the 
,   „  law  intervenes  and  protects    an  innocent  purchaser  who  has 

de  Sampayo 

J.         paid  consideration.     Then   the   question   is   whether  just  as 
the  owner  who  has  ceased  to  be  owner  may  enable   an  inno- 
cent purchaser  to  maintain  his  position  against  a  claimant  up- 
on an  unregistered  deed,  an  heir  may  do  the  same  though  he 
has  not  inherited  the   particular   land.     As  I    have  already 
stated,  the   difficulty    I  felt  was  not  as  to  the  heir  having  no 
title  to  convey   but   as  to  his  being  an    heir  at  all  in  respect 
of  property  which  has  been   alienated  by  his  ancestor.    It  is 
not  necessary  for  me  to    examine   all  the   authorities  on  the 
subject   of  all   registration.      The   scope   and   object   of  all 
registration   laws   are   well-known   and   are   practically  the 
same  in  all  countries.     It  is  sufflcent   to  say  that  so  far  as  I 
know  in  all   the   cases   in   which  an  heir's   deed  has   been 
allowed  to  prevail,  the  disposal  by  the  ancester  has   been  not 
of  his  full  ownership  but  of   some  limited  interest  such  as  a 
mortgage  or  a  lease  so  that  in  these  cases  the  heirs  did  in  fact 
inherit  in  respect   of   the   particular   land.     But  I  think  the 
real  answer  to  the   question   involved   is    to  be  found  in  the 
view  suggested  by   the   house   of    Lords    in      Warhurton  v 
LovelancP-  cited   to  us  that  is  to   say  in  the  matter  of  regist- 
ration the   transfer   of    what    tvould  have  been  the  right  and 
title  of  the  person  granting   the   second   conveyance  but  for 
the  prior  unregistered  deed  prevails.     In  that  case  there  was 
an  unregistered  settlement  by  which  a  wife  had  settled  upon 
her  children   her   life  interest   in  a  certain  term  for  a  year. 
But  for  this  settlement   the   life  interest  would    have  vested 
in  the  husband  by   matrimonial  right.     The  husband  subse- 
quently sold  this  life  interest  to  a  third  party  who  registered 
this  conveyance.     The  House  of  Lords  after  pointing  out  the 
nature   and  meaning  of  the    kind    of  right  conveyed  by  a 
second  deed  as  above  indicated  dealt  with  the    point  thus:— 
'It  has  been  further  argued  that  the   efEect  of  the  marriage 
■'settlement   was   to   prevent    the  husband  from  having  any 

-?.     (1831)     1  Doiv.  &  CI.  480. 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES.  165 

"right  to  grant  the  lease  of  1800  at  the  time  it  was   made  for  James  Appu 
"the  wife's  right  was  effectually   conveyed  as  between    her  Carolis  Appu 
"husband  and  herself  by  the  deed  of  1879,  that  she  had  no  .    c 
interest  in  her  at  the  time  she  married,  that  she  could  there-  J.I 

fore  pass  no  interest  to  her  husband  by  the  marriage  and 
"the  husband  consequently  never  had  any  right  and  therefore 
"could  convey  none  to  the  lessee.  Now  it  may  be  admitted 
also,  that  he  could  not  of  right  exercise  any  power  over  the 
"property  inconsistent  with  that  deed  but  as  by  non-regist- 
"ration  of  that  deed  the  grantees  suffered  him  as  to  the  world 
"at  large  to  have  the  appearance  of  right,  neither  they  nor 
"any  claiming  under  them  are  at  liberty  to  set  up  the  deed  in 
"opposition  to  the  persons  who  have  been  deluded  by  the 
'appearance  of  right  in  the  husband.  This  argument  there- 
"fore  which  would  be  against  the  husband  himself icannot  be 
'^heard  from  the  parties  claiming  under  settlement  against 
his  grantee  for  valuable  consideration." 

Looking  at  the  case  of  an  heir  from  the  point  of  view 
suggested  in  the  above  decision  it  is  not  necessary  for  us  to 
consider  the  argument  that  in  the  case  of  a  small  estate  such 
as  this  the  heirs  are  in  all  respects  in  the  same  position  as  an 
administrator,  for  according  to  that  view,  the  heir  would  be 
acting  not  as  representatives  of  the  deceased  at  all  but  in 
their  own  right  and  would  be  selling  what  would  in  fact 
have  come  to  them  but  for  the  deceased's  unregistered  deed 
of  which  the  person  dealing  with  them  has  no  notice- 
Accordingly,  I  agree  that  in  this  case  the  conveyance  by 
Sirimalhamy  to  the  plaintiffs  prevails  over  the  deed  of  gift  of 
Unguhamy  in  favour  of  the  appellants.  The  appeal  No.  .365B 
therefore  also  fails  and  should  be  dismissed  with  costs. 


Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellants— f/^  Silva  &  Perera. 
Proctor  for  respondents — de  Zoysa  l.  Perera, 


166 


COURT     OF    APPEAL    CASES. 

JAYAWICKRAME     v.     AMARASOORIYA. 

No.  11862  D.  C.  Galle. 

Present :  Pereira  &  Ennis  J  J. 

12th  January  1914. 

SfamjJ  duty— pleadings  insufficiently  stamped— tuhen  once  accepted 
cannot  be  retvned—Affo^-nei/  General  may  sue  to  fecoivf  deficiency  of 
stamp  dnty. 

When  a  judge,  having  considered  the  question  of  the  sufficiency 
of  stamp  duty  on  a  plaint  and  answer,  has  accepted  it,  the  presump- 
tion is  that  he  has  adjudicated  upon  the  sufficiency  of  stamp  duty 
and  he  cannot  thereafter  return  the  plaint  or  answer  to  be  properly 
stamped,  if  as  a  matter  of  fact  it  was  originally  insufficiently  stamped. 

But  if  the  plaint  or  answer  is  accepted  ^«)'  incuriam  that  is  to  say 
as  a  result  of  an  inadvertent  omission  on  the  part  of  the  Court  to 
consider  the  question  of  the  sufficiency  of  the  stamp  thereon,  it  may 
be  that  before  any  step  in  the  regular  course  of  the  procedure  is  taken 
by  the  opposite  party,  the  Court  may  return  the  pleading  to  be  pro 
perly  stamped. 

If  there  is  any  remedy  for  it,  it  must  be  by  an  action  by  the 
Attorney  General  as  representing  the  Crown. 

The  sufficiency  of  the  stamp  on  a  plaint  cannot  be  called  in  question 
as  a  matter  of  defence  in  an  answer. 

Per  Ennis  J. — A  plaint  is  an  instrument  within  the  meaning  o 
section  4  of  the  stamp  ordinance  No.  22  of  1909  and  under  section  37 
of  the  Ordinance  an  instrument  once  admitted  in  evidence  shall  not  ex- 
cept as  provided  in  the  section  be  called  in  question  at  any  stage  of  the 
same  suit  or  proceeding  on  the  ground  that  it  is  not  duly  stamped. 

Per  Pereira   J. — section   37  of  the  stamp  ordinance,   I  do    not 

think,  applies  to  pleadings  in  cases.  It  refers  to  instruments  tendered  in 

evidence  and  clearly  a  plaint  does   not   answer  to   that  description  of 
document. 

Baiva  K.  G,  for  the  appellant. 

H.  J.  C.  Pereira,  for  appellant. 


c,n.v. 


Ennis  J. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  167 

Ennis  J, — I  agree  with  regard  to  the  question  of  stamps.  Jayawick- 

rame 
It  IS  to  be   observed  that   the  Ceylon    Stamps   Ordinance   is         v 

based  on  the  Indian  Stamp  Act  but  with  the  additions  in  the    ^°il^^' 

'  soonya 

schedule  of  duties  on  law  proceedings.  For  these  proceed- 
ings to  be  liable  to  duty  under  the  Ordinance  they  must 
be  regarded  as  "instruments"  under  section  4.  Section  37 
enunciates  the  principle  that  once  "an  instrument  has  been 
admitted  in  evidence"  it  shall  not,  except  as  provided  in 
the  section,  be  called  in  question  at  any  stage  of  the  same  suit 
or  proceeding  on  the  ground  that  it  is  not  duly  stamped. 

The  latest  Ordinance  No.  22  of  1909,  doe^  not,  however 
contain  any  section  similar  in  terms  to  section  34  of  the 
repealed  Ordinance  No.  30  of  1890.  I  see  no  reason  why  an 
order  admitting  a  plaint  should  not  be  regarded  as  an  order 
admitting  an  instrument  in  evidence.  The  plaint  is  to  use 
the  words  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance,  a  document  produced 
for  the  inspection  of  the  Court.  It  contains  an  admission  and 
is  a  means  by  which  a  matter  of  fact  may  be  proved  as 
against  the  party  making  the  admission.  It  must,  it  seems 
to  me,  be  regarded  as  evidence  and  the  order  accepting  it 
can  be  reviewed  only  as  laid  down  in  section  37  of  the 
Stamp  Ordinance. 

Pereira  J. — In  this  case  the  defendant  appeals  from  two 
orders  made  by  the  District  Judge  (1)  an  order  directing 
that  this  action  do  proceed  on  the  plaintiffs  supplying  a 
deficiency  of  stamp  duty  on  the  plaint  and  (2)  and  order  re- 
jecting the  2nd.  3rd,  4th,  5th.  6th,  and  7  th  issues  suggested 
by  the  defendant's  Counsel.  As  regards  the  1st  order  the 
appellant's  contention  is  that  having  found  that  there  was  a 
deficiency  of  stamp  duty  on  the  plaint  the  District  Judge 
should  have  dismissed  plaintiffs  claim  altogether.  The  only 
provision  of  the  law  now  in  force  relating  to  stamps  on  plaints 
appears  to  be  the  provision  of  section  46  of  the  Civil  Pro- 
cedure Code.  Section  38  of  Ordinance  No.  23  of  1871  and 
section  34  of  Ordinance  No.  3  of  1890  gave  the  power  to 
Judges  to  require  an  insufficiently  stamped  pleading  to  be 
duly  stamped  and  when  that  was  done,  to  proceed  with  the 


sooriya 
Pefeira    J, 


168  COURT    OF    APPEAL    GASES. 

Jayawick-  action  as  if  the  pleading  had  been  originally  duly  stamped; 
"^T^  but  these  ordinances  were  repealed  by  ordinance  No.  22  of 
„'^?!f.!f'  1909  which  contained  no  such  provision  as  that  mentioned 
above.  Section  37  of  the  Ordinance,  I  do  not  think,  applies 
to  pleadings  in  oases.  It  refers  to  "instruments  tendered  in 
evidence,"  and  clearly  a  plaint  does  not  answer  to  that  des- 
cription of  document.  So  that  when  in  the  case  of  a  plaint 
under  section  46  of  the  Code  and  in  the  case  of  an  answer' 
under  section  77  the  judge  does  not  reject  the  pleading  but 
accept  it,  the  presumption  is  that  he  has  adjudicated  in 
favour  of  the  party  who  has  tendered  the  document  the 
question  of  the  sufliciency  of  the  stamp  thereon,  and  I  doubt 
that  the  adjudication  in  such  a  case  can  be  interfered  with  by 
anybody.  In  the  case  however,  of  a  plaint  or  answer  being 
accepted  per  incuriam,  that  is  to  say,  as  the  result  of  an 
inadvertent  ommission  on  the  part  of  the  Court  to  consider 
the  question  of  the  sufficiency  of  the  stamp  thereon,  it  may 
be  that  before  any  step  in  the  regular  course  of  procedure  is 
taken  by  the  opposite  party  the  Court  may  return  the  plead- 
ing to  be  property  stamped  but  this  question  need  not  be 
considered  on  this  appeal  because  we  have  no  inf  ormationf  rom 
the  District  judge  that  the  plaint  in  this  case  was  accepted  by 
him  per  incuriam  and  that  the  order  returning  the  plaint  was 
in  fact  made  before  the  filing  of  the  answer.  When  a  judge 
having  considered  the  question  of  the  sufficiency  of  stamp 
duty  has  accepted  it,  having  inadvertently  omitted  to  consider 
the  question,  the  remedy,  if  indeed  anyexists  can  only  be  by 
means  of  such  action  as  the  Attorney  General  as  represent- 
ing the  Crown  to  which  all  stamps  duties  are  a  debt  may  be 
deemed  to  be  entitled  to  take.  It  will  be  embarassing  to  both 
the  parties  to  any  action  and  lead  to  disastrous  results  if  for 
instance  at  a  very  late  stage  of  the  action,  a  pleading  can  be 
thrown  out  for  default  of  either  party  to  make  good  any 
deficiency  in  stamp  duty.  Any  way  the  sufficiency  of  the 
Stamp  on  a  plaint  cannot  be  called  in  question  as  a  matter  of 
defence  in  answer  any  more  than  the  fact  that  the  plaint  haS 
not  been  distinctly  written  on  good  and  suitable  paper  as 
required  by  section    40  of  the  Code.     The  answer  can  only 


COURT    OF    APPEAL    CASES.  169 

contain  the   matter  set  forth  in  sub-sections     (a)  to  fe)  of  Jayawiok- 

rame 
section  75.    It  has  been  argued  that  if  that  was  so,  an  adjudi-         v 

cation  by  the  judge  that  the  plaint  discloses  a  good  cause  of     gooriya 

action  cannot   also  be  called   in  question  when  the  plaint  is         . 

once  accepted.  But  it  will  be  seen  that  by  sub-section  (d)  of 

section  75  the  defendant  is  in  effect  allowed  to  set  forth  any 

matter  of  law  upon  which  he  may  rely  for  his  defence. 

In  the  reasons  that  I  have  given  above  it  seems  to  me 
that  the  defendant  had  no  right  to  claim  that  the  action  be 
dismissed  or  even  that  the  plaintiff's  be  required  to  supply 
deficiency  if  any,  in  stamp  duty,  but  as  the  plaintiff  has 
acquiesced  in  the  order  made  I  would  do  no  more  than  dis- 
miss the  appeal.  As  regards  the  other  order  appealed  from,  it 
seems  to  me  that  it  is  not  quite  correct  to  say  that  the  Dist- 
rict Judge  has  rejected  the  2nd,  3rd,  4th,  5th,  6th  and  7th 
issues  suggested  by  the  defendant.  These  issues  with  the 
exception  of  the  7th  appear  to  me  to  be  practically  involved 
in  the  2nd  issue  framed  by  the  District  Judge.  The  latter 
part  of  that  issue  is,  "were  the  promise  and  agreement  made 
for  the  reasons  and  consideration  stated  in  the  5th  and  6th 
paragraphs  of  the  plaint."  Now  the  5th  paragraph  expressly 
refers  to  the  trust  and  agreement  set  forth  in  the  preceding 
paragraphs.  So  that  the  proof  of  the  trust  and  agreement 
will  be  necessary  to  discharge  the  burden  on  the  plaintiffs. 
On  the  latter  part  of  the  second  issue  framed  by  the  District 
Judge  I  think  that  the  defendant's  anxiety  really  is  to  ques- 
tion the  plaintiff's  right  to  prove  the  trust  and  agreement 
referred  to,  except  by  means  of  notarial  documents. 
This  clearly  he  may  do  without  the  issue  suggested  by  him 
I  understood  the  attitude  of  the  plaintiffs  to  be  that  the 
agreement  set  up  in  the  earlier  paragraphs  of  the  plaint 
merely  constitute  a  jusia  causa  to  support  the  promise 
pleaded  in  paragraph  6,  and  that  as  held  by  the  Court  in 
Lipton  V.  Frazer^  justa  causa  is  all  that  is  necessary  to  sup- 
port a  promise  under  our  law  and  that  being  so,  the  oral 
etidence    that      the      plaintiffs    intend    calling      to    set 

/.     8  N.  L.  R.  49. 


170  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

up  2.justa  causa  or  moral  obligation  as  an  inducement  for 
the  promise  mentioned  above  and  not  to  establish  an  inter- 
est in  land.  But  however  that  may  be  it  will  clearly  be 
open  to  the  defendant  to  object  to  any  evidence  when  ten- 
dered in  spite  of  the  absence  of  such  an  issue  as  that  sug- 
gested by  him. 

The  objection  to  the  rejection  of  the  7th  issue  was  not 
pressed.  Any  way  the  date  given  in  the  plaint  of  the  agree- 
ment sued  upon,  is  the  31st  July  1912  and  it  is  manifest 
that  the  right  of  action  is  not  prescribed. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

A2weal  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  appellant— .4 .  D.  Jayasanderc. 
Proctor  foi  respondent — J.  ..4.  Pervra. 


DR.  ANTHONY  COUDERT  v.  DON  ELIAS  APPUHAMY. 

No.   86298  D.  C.    Colombo. 

Present:   Pereira  &   Ennis  J.J. 

23rd   February  1914. 

Fifhi  Com  missmn—rioui-d-i  crrating  jidei — vonim  isxii  m — tixxigns — jAeiia 
proprietas  cum  onere  Jidei  cummisxi — accejttance — asiiiijiix. 

The  following  words  in  a  deed  were  held  to  have  created  a /rfei 
commifisum. 

"I  have  given,  granted,  assigned,  transferred  and  set  over  unto 
Johannes  and  Brezina  their  heirs  executors  administrators  and  assigns 
as  a  donation  absolute  and  irrevocable  but  subject  to  the  conditions 
and  provisions  herein  after  stated  and  mentioned,  all  that  (description 
of  the  property  donated)  -  .  .  .to  have  and  to  hold  tbe  said 
premises  unto  them  the  said  Johannes  and  Brezina  their  heirs,  executors 
administrators  and  assigns  for  ever.  Provided  always  that  the  said 
garden  and  buildings  shall  not   at   any  time   be    sold  mortgaged  or  in 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  171 

any  other  manner  alienated   but  shall  be  only  held  possessed  and  Dr  Anthony 
enjoyed  by   them  and   their    heirs   and     descendants    in  perpetuity         "   ^^ 
under  the  bond  oi Jiilpi  I'ommissuni   and  the   rents  issues   and  profits  Don  Elias 
thereof  shall   not  be  liable  to  be  att  ched  seized  or  sold  by  others  for  Appuhamy 
the  debts  of  the  said  Johannes  and  Brezina  or    of  their  heirs  and  des- 
cendants and  provided  also   that  on  failure  or  extinction    of  heirs  the 
said  garden  and  buildings  shall  revert  to    and  become  the  property  of 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church  of  St.  Lucia  -  ...     and  I  the 

said  Johana  for  myself  my  executors  and  administrators  do  covenant 
promise  and  agree  to  and  with  the  said  Johannes  and  Brezina  their  heirs 
executors  administrators  that  I  the  said  Johana  have  not  at  acy  time 
made  done  or  committed  any  act  whereby,  the  hereby  granted  pre- 
mises may  be  impeached  in  title." 

In  Roman-Dutch  Law  there   is  such  a   thing   as  2>!''>'f'  pfoprietait 
cum  onrvo  fidei   connnissi. 

Observations  of  Pereira  J.  regarding  the   acceptance  of  a 
^dei  commissary  gift. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayauardenp  for   defendant-appellant. — The 

word  "assigns"  refers  to  any  one  in  the  world.  In  this  case 
the  grantees  are  Johannes  and  Brezina  and  their  "assigns." 
That  means  that  Johannes  and  Brezina  can  sell  the  property. 
The  Supreme  Court  in  a  series  of  decisions  has  held  that  a 
grant  to  a  person  his  heirs  executors  administrators  and 
assigns  is  an  absolute  grant  and  there  is  no  Jidci commisswn. 
Hormusjee  r.  Cassitii^  ;  Aysavmma  v.  Noordren^  ;  Dasa- 
naika  v.  Dasanailiu:''  In  this  case  the  defendant  bought 
the  property  on  Counsel's  advice  that  according  to  the  deci- 
sion of  this  Court  there  is  no //rfe?  co?v?m«sst<?H  attached  to 
the  property. 

There    must   be   acceptance  by   the  ftdei  commissary, 
de  Silva  v.  Thomisappn'  .) 

Here  there   was   no   acceptance   by  the   plaintiff  or  by 


/.     (1898)     2.  N.  L.  R.  190.        3.     (1906)     8.  N.  L.  R.  361. 
2.     (1902)     6N.L.R.173.        4.     (1903)     7  N.  L.  R.  123. 


172  COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

Dr  Anthony  anyone  in  his  behalf.     The  fiduciaries   sold  the  property  be- 
Coudert     ^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^  ^^^^^  ^^  accepted;  thereby   there  ^vas  arevo- 

A°°uhamy  °^*i°^^  °^  *^®  ^rant  in  favour  of  the  church. 

„     .       ,  Samarawickreme  (Bawa  K.    C,   H.  J.  G.  Pereira  and 

rereira    J. 

Canakaratne  with  him).  In  the  cases  cited  for  the  appel- 
lant, the  Supreme  Court  held  that  the  intention  of  the  tes- 
tator or  donor  was  not  clear  and  therefore  the  Court  gave 
effect  to  the  doubts  by  holding  that  there  was  noftdei  com- 
missum.  In  this  case  there  can  be  no  doubt  as  to  the  in- 
tention of  the  donor.  The  words  "to  be  held  by  them  in 
perpetuity  under  the  bond  of  fldei  commissum" 
qualified  the  effect  to  be  given  to  the  Word  assigns 
(D.  C.  Colombo,     S.  C.   Min.  14th  June  1906.) 

Acceptance  by  fidei  commissary  is  not  necessary 
to  render  the  donation  valid  Asiathumma  v.  Alima 
Natchia^  ;  2  Burge  149.  However  in  this  case  the  bringing 
of  the  action  by  us  with  regard  to  the  land  constitutes  a 
sufficient  acceptance. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene  in  reply. 

c.a.v. 

Pereira  J — The  first  question  argued  in  appeal  was 
whether  deed  No.  7522  dated  the  20th  September  1853 
created  a  valid  fldei  commissun  in  respe(!t  of  the  property 
now  in  claim.  The  grantor  of  the  deed  was  one  Johana 
Perera  and  the  immediate  grantees  were  her  son  and 
daughter  Johannes  and  Brezina.  The  mntorial  portion  of  the 
deed  is  as  follows: — "I  have  given,  granted,  assigned,  transfer, 
"red  and  set  over  unto  Johannes  and  Brezina  their  heirS 
''executors  administrators  and  assigns  as  a  donation  absolute 
'and  irrevocable  but  subject  to  the  provision^  and  conditions 
hereinafter  stated  and  mentioned  all  that  [description  of  the 
property  donated]  ....  to  have  and  to  hold  the  said  pre- 
mises unto  them  the  said  Johannes  and  Brezina  their  heirs 
executors  administrators  and  assigns  for  ever.  Provided  al- 
ways that  the  said  garden  and  buildings  shall  not  at  any  time 

1.  {1905)     1  A.  0.  B.  53. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  173 

be  sold  mortgaged  or  in  any  other  manner  alienated  but  shall  ^^^^^j^^j,""'^ 

be  only  held  possessed  and  enjoyed  by  them  and  their  heirs         v 

-   .  Don  Elias 

and  descendants  in  perpetuity  under  the  bond  of  fidei    com-  Appuhamy 

missum  and  that  the  rents  issues  and  profits  thereof  shall  not  p^j.gjj.jj  j 
be  liable  to  be  attached  seized  or  sold  by  others  for  the  debts 
of  the  said  Johannes  and  Brezina  or  of  their  heirs  and  des- 
cendants and  provided  also  that  on  failure  or  extinction  of 
heirs  the  said  garden  and  buildings  shall  revert  to  and  be- 
come the  property  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  of  St. 
Lucia  ....  and  I  the  said  Johana  for  myself  my  executors 
and  administrators  do  covenant  promise  and  agree  to  and 
with  the  said  Johannes  and  Brezina,  their  heirs  executors  and 
administrators  that  I  the  said  Johannes  have  not  at  any  time 
made  done  or  committed  any  act  whereby  the  granted  pre- 
mises may  be  impeached  in  title  &c."  In  support  of  the  con- 
tention that  no  Hdei  commissun  is  created  by  this  deed  cer- 
tain judgments  of  this  Court  were  cited  but  in  my  opinion 
they  have  no  application  whatever  to  the  present  ca^e.  In 
Hormusjee  v.  Cassiw}  the  gift  was  a  gift  absolute  and 
irrevocable  to  his  heirs  executors  administrators  and  as- 
signs subject  to  the  condition  that  he  should  not  be  at  liberty 
'to  sell,  mortgage  or  otherwise  alienate  the  property  gifted 
but  possessed  the  same  during  his  life  and  out  of  these  words 
it  was  sought  to  evolve  a.  fidei  commissun  but  it  is  clear  that 
the  parties  to  benefit  were  not  clearly  designated  in  the  deed- 
Similarly  in  the  case  of  Aysaumma  v.  Noordeen^  the 
words  used  in  the  deed  were.  "I  have  given  granted  as- 
signed transferred  and  set  over  unto  A  and  B  their  heirs 
executors  administrators  and  assigns  as  a  gift  absolute  and 
irrevocable  all  that  portion  of  house  &c,  to  have  and  to  hold 
"the  said  premises  unto  the  said  A  and  B  their  heirs  exe- 
"cutors,  administraiors  and  assigns  and  their  children  and 
"grand  children,  and  the  children  and  great  grand  children 
"of  their  heirs  and  assigns  shall  not  sell  mortgage  or  encumber 
"the  said  premises  at  any  time  but  hold  and  possess  the  same 

1.    N.  L.R.  190.  2.    6  N.  L.  E.  173. 


174  COURT     OF     APPEAL     CASES. 

Dr  Anthony  "and  the  rents  produce  and  income  thereof  shall  not  be  held 
Coudert 

V         "liable  to  be   attached   seized   or  sold  for  any  of  their   debts 

Appuhamy  but  they  shall  be  able  to  give  and  grant  the  said  premises  or 
p  .  J  "any  part  thereof  in  dowry  for  their  female  children  also 
"subject  to  the  aforesaid  conditions  and  restrictions.  Here 
too  the  words  used  import  no  more  than  a  prohibition  against 
alienation  by  the  parties  to  whom  the  property  is  parted 
namely  A  and  B  their  heirs  executors  administrators  and 
assigns  and  there  is  no  clear  indication  of  any  party  to  bene- 
fit by  the  prohibition,  nor  are  there  other  words  to  indicate 
that  the  creation  otufidei  ccminiissim  was  intended.  In  the 
case  of  Dasanaike  v.  Dasanaikc^  the  material  words  of  the 
deed  in  question  were. — "We  have  given  granted  assigned 
and  set  over  as  we  do  hereby  give  grant  assign  transfer  and 
set  over  as  gift  absolute  and  irrevocable  unto,  his  heirs 
executors  admin istratort  and  assigns  the  following: — .  ...  to 
have  and  to  hold  the  said  premises  unto  the  said  L.  his  heirg 
executors  administrators  and  assigns  for  ever,  subject  never- 
theless to  the  following  condition  that  he  the  said  L.  and  his 
generation  shall  possess  the  said  lands  for  ever  but  he  or  his 
heirs  and  shall  not  sell  nor  mortgage  or  alienate  the.  same  in 
any  manner  whatsoever."  The  same  remarks  as  those  made  on 
the  case  last  cited  apply.  In  the  case  with  which  we  are  now 
concerned  however  it  is  manifest  that  the  word  "them"  in  the 
provision  that  the  garden  and  buildings  shall  be  only  hf-ld 
possessed  and  enjoyed  by  them  and  their  heirs  and  descen- 
dants in  perpetuity  under  the  bond  oifldri  commiftfiun  refers 
only  to  the  original  institutes  namely  Johannes  and  Brezina 
and  that  the  words  "in  perpetuity  under  the  bond  of  fidei 
commsision"  and  also  the  provision  that  in  case  of  failure 
or  extinction  of  heirs  the  property  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  of  St.  Lucia"  indicate  an  intention  to  create  a  fidei 
cnmmissum.  In  the  case  of  Seremhram  v.  Perumal?  wher^ 
similar  words  were  used  my  brother  Wood  Renton  observed. 
"Ihe   words  in  perpetuity   and  under  the  bond  of  yZ&i  rom- 

1.     8  N.L.  n.?,Gl.  2.     IG  N.  L.R.  6. 


COURT  OP  APPEAL  CASES.  175 

missun  leave  no  doubt  in  my  mind  that  the  testator  intend-  Dr  Anthony 

Coudert 
ed  to   create  a  iidei  amimissiuii"  and  it  is    noteworthy    that  v 

in  the  present  case  there   is   an   omission  of    the  word   "as-  Appuhamy 

signs"  in  the  warranty  clause  while  Wendc   J.  makes  a  point  _.     .       . 

Pereira    J. 
of  the  presence  of  that   word   in  the  corresponding  clause  in 

the  deed  in  question  in  the  case  of  Da  atiaika  v.  Dasanaike^ 
while  if  the  facts   of  the   cases   cited  were  such  as  to  make 
them  applicable   to  the  present  case  I  should  unhesitatingly 
follow  the  decisions  I  should   like  to  observe   that  I  cannot 
help  thinking  that  too  much  inaportance   has    been  attached 
to  the  use  of  the  word   assigns  in  these   cases.     It  has  really 
no  more  force  than  "executors  or  administrators."    Property 
subject  to  a  fidc4  commissum  does   not  go  to    "'executors   or 
administrators  any  more  than  it  vests   in  '"assigns"  and  why 
the   word   "assigns"   should   be   singled   out   for     condem- 
nation   I    cannot      quite     understand.       It     is     said    that 
the     word    "assigns"     means     any      person    ■   to     whom 
the  donee   may   be   pleased    to   assign   the     property    but 
similarly  it  may  be  said  with   reference  to   the  word  "exe- 
cutors" that  it   implies   that   the  donee  might  will  awaj'  th- 
property  to  any  person  he  liked   and   with   reference  to  the 
word  "administrators"  that  the  property    vested  in  the  legae 
representatives  of   the   deceased   donee   as  property  that  bel 
longed  to  him  absolutely.    A  grant  to  A  B  without   qualifl. 
cation  is  exactly  the  same   as  a   grant  to  A  B  his    heirs  exe- 
cutors administrators,   and    assigns   and    the  fact  that  words 
are  used  to  vest  in  the  first    instance   absolute   dominluin  in 
the  fiduciary  is  by  no  means  repugnant  to  the   creation    of  a 
fidei  commissum.     Unlike  a   mere  usufructuary  a  fiduciary 
has  title  and  duminhnu.     So  much  so    that    an  alienation  by 
him  of  the  property  which  is  subject  of  the  fldei  commi  sun 
by  will  o?"  deed  would  be  operative   if   there  be  a  failure  of 
the    Jidei     coinmissanj.     Vuet.    puts      the     position     thus 
( Voet  7.  1.    13.)   "where   a   bare  usufruct  appears  given   the 
ownership  immediately  on   the   death  of  the  testator  is  con- 
sidered as  acquired  by  those  who  at  the    time  were  the  next 
of  kin  of  the  deceased  or  whom  he   in   his  last  will   declared 
1.     8.  N.  L.  B.  3^1. 


176  COURT    OP    APPEAL     CASES. 

Dr  Anthony  \^ig  universal  successors  at  law  so  that  even  if  they   die  dur- 

Coudert     jj^g^j^gg^jgjgjjgg  Qf  tjj^g  usufruct  nevertheless  they    transmit 

Appuhamy  their  ownership  and  their  hopes  of  becoming    full  owners  to 

their  heirs     which   is   not  the   case  when    full    ownership 
Pereira    J.  ,   .  .  /    7  .■ 

with  the  burden  of  ^(iei   commtssun  (plena  proprietas  cum 

onere  fidei    commissi)   or  of   making   restitution  after   the 
death  of  the  fiduciary  is  understood  to  have  been  left  for  the 
fidei   commissary  who  dies   during  the     life   time   of   the 
fiduciarius  does   not  transmit   his  chance  of  obtaining  the 
Mei  commissum  to  his  heirs  but  restitution  is  made  to  those 
who  are  alive  at  the  death  of  the  fiduciary,  and   if  none  such 
survive  to  whom  restitution   should   be  made    the  fiduciary 
is  taken  to  be  released  from  the  burden   of  ^"i  commissun 
not  findirg  anyone   to  whom  to  restore  it    and  he  can  then 
alienate  the  property  as    if  unburdened    or  transmit  the  full 
right  of  ownership  to  his  next  heirs.     So  that  it  will  be  seen 
that  under  fhe  Roman-Dutch   law  there  is  such   a    thing  as 
"plena  proprietas   cum   onere   Hdei  commissi.'"     The  plena 
proprietas  may  be  first  conferred  by   some   such  words  as  "I 
grant  to  A"  or  "I  grant   to  A   his   heirs  executors  administ- 
rators and  assigns  and  then  the  burden  engrafted  on  it.    The 
only  question   is   whether  the  words  used  sufficiently  indi- 
cate a  clear   intention   to   burden   the  plena  proprietas.     In 
the  present  case  it  is  inconceivable  that    the  words  in  perpet- 
uity under  the  bond  of  fidei   coinmissun   were  used  for  any 
purpose  other  than  that  of  creating  a  fidei  commissum.     The 
application  to  this  case   of  the  test  that  I  have  laid  down  in 
Wijetunge  Wijetimga^  would  give  only  one   result  and  that 
is  that  the  deed  in  question  created  a  valid  Mei  commissum- 

Tne  next  question  argued  was  whether  it  has  been 
shown  that  the  heirs  of  Johannesa  nd  Brezina 
are  extinct.  On  this  point  I  am  not  prepared  to  question 
the  verdict  of  the  District  Judge  on  the  evidence. 

The  third  question  is  whether  the  gift  has  been  duly 
accepted   by   the  plaintiff.     In  de  Silva  v,  Thamis  Ajjjju"   it 

1.     15  N.  L.  R.  493.  2.     7  N.  L.  B.  128. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES.  177 

was  held  that  a  gift  shonld  be  accepted   by  a  fldei  coinmis-  D- Anthony 

Coudert 
sary  but   in  the   case  of  Asiathmnma  v.  Alima  Natchif  v 

Wendt  J.  who  was  one  of  the  two  Judges  who  so  held  stated  Appuhamy 

that   the  conclusion   that   he   had  arrived    at  in  the  case  of  „ 

,  Pereira    J. 

ae  iiilva  v  Thomis  "^  was  erroneous  and  that  after  reconsider- 
ation of  the  points  his  opinion  was  that  the  acceptance  of  a 
gift  by  the  'Hdei  commissary  was  necessary  only  in  order  to 
render  the  gift  to  him  irrevocable  by  the  donor.  It  is,  I 
think,  clear  law  that  if  the  donor  himself  died  before  the 
period  had  arrived  when  the  property  was  to  be  delivered  to 
the  'fidei  commissary  the  power  of  revocation  was  at  an  end 
and  could  not  be  exercised  by  the  heirs  of  the  donor  (see 
2  Burge  149).  Any  way  in  the  present  case  it  is  clear  the 
donor's  heirs  did  not  exercise  or  purport  to  exercise  any 
power  of  revocation.  The  property  vested  in  them  (Johannes 
and  Brezina,)  and  the  conveyance  in  favour  of  Seneviratne 
the  defendant's  vendor  executed  by  them  but  by  the  heirs  of 
Johannes  the  conveyance  itself  is  not  tantamount  to  a  revo- 
cation by  Johannes  and  Rosa  Maria  qua  heirs  of  Johannes- 
Even  if  they  were  such  the  respondent's  Counsel  argued  that 
there  was,  in  any  case  an  acceptance  of  the  gifts  by  the 
plaintiffs  in  that  they  had  brought  the  present  action  to  re- 
cover the  subject  of  the  donation  and  that  act  of  theirs  was 
by  itself  an  acceptance  of  the  gift.  Now  where  a  gift  really 
takes  eflEect  after  the  death  of  the  donor  it  may  be  accep  ed 
even  after  that.  Gens  For  14.  12.  16.  In  the  present  case 
when  the  gift  to  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  of  St.  Lucia 
took  effect  the  property  gifted  was  already  in  the  posses- 
sion of  the  defendant  who  would  not  allow  the  pluintiffs  to 
take  possession  <if  it.  How  were  the  pi  intiffs  to  accept  the 
gift  except  by  means  of  an  attempt  to  take  poFsession  of  the 
property.  This  action  is  such  an  attempt  and  I  am  inclined 
to  agree  with  the  respondent's  Counsel  that  in  the  circum- 
stances of  a  case  like  this  an  action  to  gain  possession  of  the 


1.     1  A.C.R.  53.  2.     7  N.  L.  R.  123. 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES. 

property  donated  would  be  tantamount  to  a  manifestation 
of  the  acceptance  by  the  donee  of  the  gift.  For  the  reasons 
given  above  I  would  affirm  the  judgment  appealed  from 
with  costs. 

Ennis  J. — I  agree. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant —  A.  G.  Aheyewardene. 

Proctor  for  respondent—/.  A.  Perera. 


Order  for  regnlating  the  mode  of  prosecutiiig  Civil  Appeals- 

in  the  Supreme  G>iirt,  made  by  the  Judges  under 

Section  53  of  "  The  Courts  Ordinances, 

1889  to  1909." 

Civil  Appellate  Rules,  1913. 
We,  the  Honourable  Mr.  Alexander  Wood  Renton,. 
Acting  Chief  Justice  of  the  Island  of  Ceylon,  and  the 
Honourable  Mr.  James  Cecil  Walter  Pereira,  King's  Coun- 
sel, Puisne  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  Island  of 
Ceylon,  and  the  Honourable  Mr.  George  Francis  Macdaniel 
Ennis,  Puisne  Justice  of  the  said  Court,  do  hereby,  in  pur- 
suance and  execution  of  the  powers  given  to  us  by  the- 
Courts  Ordinances,  1889  and  1901,  and  all  other  powers  and. 
authorities  enabling  us  in  thi^  behalf,  order  and  direct  in 
manner  following: — 

1.  The  Civil  Appellate  Rules  of  1908  are  hereby  an- 
nulled. 

2.  (1)  In  every  civil  appeal,  preferred  after  February 
28<-1914,  the  appellant  shall  provide,  in  the  manner  here- 
inafter prescribed,  for  the  use  of  each  of  the  Judges  who 
shall  sit  on  the  hearing  the  appeal,  a  typewritten  copy  of 
so  much  of  the  record  of  the  case  as  may  be  necessary  for 
the  decision  of  the  appeal. 

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  sub-rule  (1)  an  appeal  shall  be 
deemed  to  be  preferred  on  the  date  of  the  presentation  of 
the  petition  of  appeal  in  the  Court  of  first  instance. 

3.  (1)  The  appellant  shall  apply  in  writing  to  the 
Registrar  of  the  Supreme  Cour^  either  direct  within  seven 
days  (inclusive  of  Sundays  and  public  holidays)  from  the- 
date  of  the  receipt  of  the  petition  of  appeal  in  the  Registry, 
or  through  the  District  Judge  or  the  Commissioner  of  Re- 
quests, as  the  case  may  be,  when  transmitting  the  record  to 
the  Supreme  Court,  for  typewritten  copies  of  the  record, 
stating  in  such  application  whether  copies  of  the  whole  or 
of  portions  only,  and  if  so,  of  what  portions,  of  the  record 
are  necessary  for  the  decision  of  the  appeal. 

(2)    On  receipt  of  such  application,  and  subject  to  the 


provisions  of  this  sub-rule  and  of  sub-rules  l3),  (4),  and  (5), 
the  Registrar  shall  furnish  the  appellant,  as  soon  as  possible 
with  the  typewritten  copies  applied  for. 

(3)  Payments  for  such  copies  shall  be  made  by  stamps 
afiBxed  to  the  application, :  and  every  such  application  shall 
state  the  value  of  the  subject  matter  and  the  nature  of  the 
action  or  proceeding  in  which  the  appeal  is  preferred. 

(4)  Where  owing  to  the  volume  of  the  record,  or  the 
number  of  typewritten  copies  applied  for,  he  shall  think  fit 
to  do  so,  the  Registrar  may  require  payment  for  the  copies, 
or  the  additional  copies,  for  which  application  is  made,  at  a 
higher  scale,  not  exceeding  by  more  than  one-half  the  rate 
prescribed  in  the  schedule  hereto. 

(5)  Exclusive  of  the  typewritten  copies  for  the  use  of 
the  Judges,  (a)  one  typewritten  copy  only  shall  be  furnished 
to  the  appellant,  unless  he  shall  have  stated  in  his  appli- 
cation under  sub-rule  (1)  that  additional  copies  will  be  re- 
quired ;  (b)  not  more  than  two  copies  in  all  shall  be  so  fur- 
nished  unless   the  Registrar  shall  think  fit    in    exceptional 

cases,  to   direct   that   an  additional  copy  or  copies  shall   be 
prepared. 

4.  The  fees  paid  in  respect  of  all  typewritten  copies 
furnished  under  these  rules  shall  be  costs  in  the  appeal. 

5.  Where  the  appellant  fails  to  make  application  for 
typewritten  copies  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of 
these  rules,  the  appeal  shall,  subject  to  the  provisions  of 
"  The  Civil  Procedure  Code,  1889,"  be  dismissed  forthwith 
unless  it  appears  to  the  Court  to  be  reasonable  that  further 
time  should  be  allowed. 

6.  The  provisions  of  these  rules,  shall,  as  far  as  is 
practicable,  apply  to  any  respondent  to  any  appeal.  But 
no  delay  or  default  on  the  part  of  a  respondent  in  applying 
typewritten  copies  shall  prevent  the  appeal  from  coming  on 
for  hearing  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  *'  The  Civil 
Procedure  Code,  1889,"  or  for  dismissal  under  rule  5. 

7.  These  rules  may  be  cited  as  "The  Civil  Appellate 
Rules,  1913. 


Schedule    of    Fees. 


Final  Appeals  From   the  District   Court. 


1st 

Class. 

2nd 
Class. 

3rd 
Class. 

4th 
Class. 

5th 
Class. 

6th 
Class. 

Where  the  action  or  pro- 
ceeding involves  property   or 
rights  of  the  value. 

•a 

CO 

§..   . 
in  iDO 

.T30 

K  3-1 

ti'2  "o 

>  <a^ 
O 

'^  So 

O   <bO_ 
W    3      . 

§1 

O.Q 

Payable  by  appellant    for 
one     copy     (including     two 
copies  for  the   Judges) 

Payable  by  respondent  for 
one  copy. 

Rs. 
4 

4 

Rs. 
5 
5 

Rs. 
6 
6 

Rs. 

8 
8 

Rs. 
10 
10 

Rs. 
15 
15 

Appeals  in  'partition  actions,  whatever  the  value  of  the  land,  shall 
be  charged  as  in  Class  III. ;  in  matrimonial  cases,  as  in  Class  IV. ;  in 
actions  relating  to  public  charities  under  Chapter  XLV.  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code,  as  in.  Class  IV. ;  in  actions  under  the  Inventions 
Ordinance,  1906,  as  in  Class  V. 

Interlocutory  Apjjeals  From  District   Courts. 

In  Partitions        In  all   other  inter- 


locutory Appeals 
Rs. 


Actions. 
Rs. 

Payable  by  the  appellant  for  one  copy 
(including  two  copies  for  the  Judges)     ...       6  ...  4 

Payable  by  the  respondent  for 
one  copy  ...  ...  ...       6  ...  4 

Appeals  From    Courts  of  Reguests. 

Payable  by  the  appellant  for  one  copy 
(including  one  copy  for  the  Judge)         ...       —         ...  3 

Payable  by  the  respondent  for 
one  copy  ...  ...  ...       —         ...  .3 

Dated  at  Colombo,  this  11th  day  of  August,  1913. 

A.   Wood  Renton,  Acting  Chief    Justice. 
Walter  Pbreira,  Puisne  Justice. 
G.  F.  M.  Ennis.  Puisne  Justice. 

I  certify  that  this  is  a  true  copy  of  the  rules  made  by  the  Judges  of 
the  Supreme  Court  under  the  provisions  of  section  53  of  the  Courts 
Ordinances,  1889  and  1901. 

A.  Wood  Renton, 

Acting  Chief  Justice. 
August  11,  1913. 


TABLE    OF    CASES    REPORTED. 


-*^*- 


PAGE. 

Adakappa  Chetty  v.  Fernando  ...  ...  63 

Adakappa  Chetty  v.  Rambukpotha  ...  ...  59 

Arunasalem  v.  Ramasamy  Nayakar  ...  ...  134 

Attorney-General  v.  Kaliyamuttu  ...  ...  47 

Ayanohamy  v.  Silva       ...  ...  ...  143 

Dr.  Coudert  v.  Elias  Appuhamy  ...  ...  170 

Dingiri  Appuhamy  v.  Appuhamy  ...  ...  87 

Fernando  v.  Buyzer         ...  ...  ...  57 

Gooneratne  v.  Fernando  ...  ...  19 

James  Appu  v,  Carolis  Appu  ...  ...  155 

Jamis  V.  Suppa  Umma  ...  ...  ...  110 

Jayawickrame  v.  Amarasooriya  ...  ...  166 

Liver  a  v.  Gonsalves        ...  ...  ...  64 

Mammale  Marikar  v.  Junsido  ...  ...  100 

Mohamado  v.  Rawther  ...  ...  ....  11 

Mohammado  Sali  v.  Ayesha  Umma  ...  ...  147 

Muttucarupen  Chetty  V  .Habibhoy  ...  ...  102 

Ondris  v.  Baby  Nona      ...  ...  ...  98 

In  re  estate  of  Maria  Perera  deceased  ...  ...  152 

Pathurupillai  v.  Kandappen  ...  ...  23 

Perera  v.  De  Silva           ...  ...  ...  1 

Punchi  Menika  v.  Dingiri  Menika  ...  ...  93 

Samitchy  Appu  v.  Pieris  ...  ...  30 

Senaratne  v.  Jane  Nona  ...  ...  83 

Silva  V.  Silva                    ...  ...  ...  14 

Silva  V.  Fernando           ...  ...  ...  50 

Sinnetamby  v.  Kamalamuttu  ...               '          ...  90 

Somasundram  v.  Sinnatamby  ...  ...  94 

Asst.  Superintendent  of  Police,  Matara  v.  Gunasekere...  26 

Tennekoon  v.  Pieris        ...  ...         ,,  ...  H 

Vairavy  Karthigesu  v.  Muruger  Sellappa  ...  61 

Vytianathan  Chetty  v.  Meenatchi  ...  ...  137 

Welaiden  Chetty  v.  Piyaratne  Unnanse  ...  132 

Wickremesekere  v.  Wijetunge  ...  ...  52 

Wijesinghe  v.  Dingiri  Appuhamy  ...  ...  139 


INDEX. 


PAGE. 


Action — 

(i)     For  declamtiO'ii  of  title  and  injunction 
See  "  Co-owners  " 


See  "  Rei  Vindicatio  " 


Admission — 

See  "  Confession  " 


19 


(ii)     For  refund  of  consideration 

See  "  Prescription  " 
(iii)  On  Mortgage— See  "  Mortgage''  ^^ 

(iv)  To  enforce  Marriage  brocage  contract 

See  "Contract"  ""* 

fv")   Matrimonial  actions — costs 

&e"  Costs"  e« 
(vi)  Partition  action— undertaking  to  abide  bg  declnmi  of  judge 

See  "  Partition  "  "^ 

(vii)  For  convegance  of  trnst  property,  See  "  Trust  "  83 

(viii)    Possessory  action.  See  "  Court  of  Requests  "  "  87 

(ix)    To  set  aside  deed.  See  "Paulian  action  "  9^ 

(x)  For  account  of  partnership,  See  "  Partnership  "  °^ 
(xi)   Actiones  redhibitoria  and  quanti  minoris 

"  See  Vendor  and  Purchaser  "  11" 


26 


Adverse  Possession— 

See  "Prescription"  l'*^ 

Appeal — 

(i)  An  appeal  lies  from  an  order  made  under  §  1  of  Ordinance 
No.  12  of  1840.  Such  an  appeal  is  civil  in  its  nature  and 
should  be  prosecuted  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  , 

Attorney-General  c.  Kaliyamuttu.  No.  4657,  D.  C.  Badulla  47 

(ii)  Appealable  order — inquiry  into  objections  to  items  in  account  filed 
by  administrator — order  made  imtk  reference  to  some  objections 
— adjournment  of  inquiry — whether  appeal  lies  from  the  order 
already  made. 

The  District  Judge  commenced  an  inquiry  into  objections  taken 
to  certain  items  in  an  account  filed  by  the  respondent  as 
administrator  and  made  his  order  with  reference  to  some  ob- 
jections and  adjourned  the  inquiry  pending  the  filing  by  the 
administrator  of  a  certain  account  necessary  to  enable  him 
to  adjudicate  upon  certain  other  objections. 

Held,  that  an  appeal  from  the  decisions  recorded  by  the  District 
Judge  on  the  objections  already  dealt  with  by  him  is  pre- 
mature. 

Earthigesu  r.  Sellappah,  No.  2461  D.  0.  Jaffna  61 

(iii)  Application  to  certify  payment — discretion  of  court — question  of 
fact — no  appeal  lies  mitkout  leave  of  Cotirt  of  Requests. 


(    5    ) 

PAGE. 

The  question  whether  or  not  an  application  under  §  349  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code  to  cause  payment  to  be  certified  should 
be  entertained  or  rejected  being  one  in  the  discretion  of  the 
Court  on  the  facts  in  each  particular  case,  no  question  of 
law  is  involved  and  no  appeal  lies  without  the  permission  of 
the  Commissioner  of  Requests. 

Adakappa  Ohetty  r.  Fernaildo,  No.  H159,  C.  R.,  Negombo  63 

^iv)    Appeal — nmlprtdldiuj  tn  ali'ide  hy  deciiiim  of  Jiidijs — aj'hU''iitwu  in 
■jiai'fitinn  iirtiimn. 

The  plaintiff  sued  the  defendants  for  the  partition  of  the  land. 
The  defendants  denied  that  the  plaintiff  had  any  interest  in 
the  eastern  portion  of  the  said  land  and  sought  to  have  it  ex- 
cluded from  the  partition.  In  the  course  of  the  trial  the 
plaintiff's  proctor  gave  the  following  undertaking  viz,  that  he 
was  prepared  to  abide  by  the  decision  of  the  Court  on  the 
question  of  the  interpretation  of  the  documents.  The  docu- 
ments referred  to  were  not  formally  put  in  evidence  but  the 
District  Judge  considered  them  and  made  his  order  holding 
that  the  eastern  portion  of  the  land  must  be  excluded  from 
the  partition. 

Held — that  under  ordinary  circumstances  no  appeal  lies  from  an 
order  made  in  pursuance  of  such  an  undertaking  as  was  given 
by  the  plaintiff's  proctor. 

Ouneratne  c  Andradi,  No.  5161,  D.C.,  Kalutara  69 

(v)  Right  of  appeal — order  in  review  of  taxation — final  judgment  or 
order  harinq  the  effect  of  final  judgment — "uOurts  Ordinaiiue 
Xo.  1  of  1SS9  §  SO—O-ivil  Procedure  Code  §  §  214  and  831. 

An  appeal  lies  under  §  314  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  from  the 
decision  of  a  Commissioner  of  Requests  in  review  of  taxation 
of  a  bill  of  coats. 

An  order  in  review  of  taxation  ie  not  a  final  judgment  or  order 
having  the  effect  of  a  final  judgment  so  as  to  come  within  the 
operation  of  §  13  of  ordinance  No.  12  of  1895. 

Backo  Appuhamy  v.  Puncha,  No.  4476,  C.  R.  Nuwara  Eliya  78 

■(vi)    Appeal-agreement  to  abide  by  decision  of  Court  must  he  acipiie^-ced 
in  by  opposite  2>arty. 

The  defendant,  who  claimed  title  to  a  land  by  prescription, 
stated  in  reply  to  a  question  put  by  the  Court  in  the  course  of 
his  examination,  "  If  I  have  even  by  mistake  gone  and  planted 
that  land  I  am  prepared  to  abide  by  the  order  of  the  Court." 
In  spite  of  the  defendant's  undertaking  his  Counsel  pressed 
the  plea  of  prescription  and  that  plea  the  Commissioner  up- 
held in  his  judgment  but  at  the  same  time  condemned  the 
defendant  to  pay  the  plaintiff  R25.  Each  party  appealed 
against  the  part  of  the  decree  that  was  adverse  to  himself. 

Held,  that  the  defendant's  undertaking  did  not  prevent  him 
from  appealing  against  the  judgment  of  the  Court. 

Pereira  J. — (1)  An  undertaking  of  this  nature  to  have  a  binding 
effect,  should,  in  my  opinion,  be  given  in  a  more  formal  and 
solemn  manner  than  in  the  shape  of  a  casual  answer  to  a 
question  put  by  the  Court  in  the  course  of  the  examination  of 
a  party  as  a  witness. 

(2)  In  the  next  place  such  an  undertaking  as  that  mentioned 
above  can  be  of  no  avail  unless  the  opposite  party  is  pre- 
pared to  accept  the  decision  of  the  Judge. 


(     G     ) 


PAGK 


Ayanohamy  r.  Silva,  No.  9394,  C.  R.,  Balapitiya  143 

Acceptance — 

See  "  Donation  "  52,  80,  147 

Adverse  Possession — 

See  "  Prescription  "  143 

Administrator — 

f/ir/uiry  to  oljections  filed,  iS'eel" Appeal  (ii)"  61 

Arbitration — 

Her  "  Appeal  (iv)"  69 

Burden  of  proof — 

Payment — rebitttal  of  aclinuwledgmeyvt 

S'e"  "  Prescription  "  134 

Cause  of  action — 

/SV""  "  Rejudicata  "  30 

^See  "  Prescription  (ii)  "  83 

See  "  Partnership  ''  94 

Civil  Appelate  Rules  ii^* 

Civil  Procedure  Code — 

(i)     §  15 — iSi'r  "  Misjoinder  "  98 

(ii)   §  U—See  "  Partnership  ■■  94 

(iii)  §  §  34  and  ZOl—See  "  Contract  "  102 

(iv)  §  §  34,  207,  232,  241,  252— See  "  Resjudicata  "  30 

(v)  Proof  of  execution  of  deed — signing  hi/  cross — jjerxon  cveciding 
holding  2>en  whilst  anotlier  p^cts  tlie  eross — whetlier  fact  of  the 
toriting  and  anthority  proved — ^§  159  Ciril  Procedure  Cede. 

Where  the  question  was  whether  a  certain  deed  was  duly  exe- 
cuted by  P.  and  the  evidence  showed  that  P.  held  the  pen 
while  another  put  the  cross,  but  there  was  no  evidence  to 
prove  the  fact  of  the  writing  and  the  authority  of  the  writer 
to  write  the  name  on  the  document  as  a  signature,  as  re- 
ferred to  in  §  159  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

IMd,  that  the  deed  was  duly  executed  by  P. 

Section  159  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  refers  to  a  case  where 
the  signature  is  written  by  the  one  person  without  any 
interference  by  or  help  from  the  other. 

Mammale  Marikar  v.  Junsido,  No.  11427  D.  0.  Galle  100 

(vi)  §  189— *e  "  Collation,"  "  Decree  "  137 

(vii)  §  201— See  "  Mortgage"  139 

(viii)  §  211 — Costs  in  matrimonial  actions.  See  "  Costs  "  gg 

(ix)     §§  214,  831— .See  "Appeal  (v)"  78 

(x)       §§224,  225,  341,  344  &e  "Writ"  23 

(x)       Money  recovered   by  judgment-creditor    in    e,rce,is   of  amount   due 
iniderepree — whether  recoverable  in  same  action — does  the  order 
certifying   satisfaction    of  decree    close     the     j>roceediiiqs — Oiril 
Proeednre  Code  §§  344,  349. 


(     7     ) 

PAGE. 

The  defendant  moved  under  §  344  the  of  Civil  Procedure  Code  for 
a  notice  on  the  plaintiff  to  show  cause  why  should  not  refund 
to  the  defendant  a  sum  of  R691-0('  recovered  by  him  in  excess 
of  the  amount  due  to  him  under  the  decree.  On  the  day  fixed 
for  the  discussion  of  the  matter  on  the  motion  of  the  plaintiff's 
proctor,  consented  to  by  the  defendant's  proctor,  payment  of 
the  decree  was  certified  under  §  349  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 
Thereafter  the  plaintiff's  proctor  contended  that  the  "case  was 
closed"  and  nothing  further  could  be  done  in  it  on  the  defen 
dant's  motion  for  an  order  on  the  plaintiff  to  refund  the  amount 
paid  to  him  in  excess  of  the  sum  actually  due  to  him. 

Held,  (1)  That  the  defendants'  application,  when  it  was  made 
was  quite  in  order  as  an  application  under  §  344  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code. 

(2)  That  the  intention  of  the  parties — at  any  rate  of  the  defen- 
dant— was  not  to  "close  the  proceeding's"  by  certifyinpc  satisfac- 
tion of  the  decree  and  that  in  the  circumstances  of  the  case  the 
order  on  the  plaintiff's  motion  to  certify  payment  of  the  decree 
amounted  to  no  more  than  the  placing:  on  record  of  the  fact 
that  the  defendant  has  paid  the  plaintiff  at  least  the  amount  of 
the  decree. 
Sinnetamby  r.  Kamalamuttu,  No.  4566,  D.  C.  Chilaw  90 

(xii)     ^349 — Ceiiifying  payment — See  Appeal  (iii)  6.=t 

Certifying  Payment — 

See  '-Appeal  (iii)"  63 

See  "Civil  Procedure  Code  (xi)"  9f) 

Collation — 

(i)  Hotchpot — collation — Kmiaii -Dutch-Law  not  applicable — Ordinance 
15  of  1S76  §  39 — amendment  of  decree — decree  in  accordance 
with  judgment —  remedy — appeal — Civil  Procedure  Cede  §  ISd, 

The  Roman-Dutch  Law  as  to  collation  was  superseded  by  §  39  of 
Ordinance  No.  15  of  1876.  Under  that  section  collation  takes 
place  only  when  a  parent  gives  property  to  his  children  either 
on  the  occasion  of  their  marriage  or  to  advance  or  establish 
them  in  life. 

A  decree  can  only  be  amended  in  terms  of  §  .^  S9  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code. 

When  there  is  no  inadvertant  omission  in  the  judgment  an  appli- 
cation to  amend  the  decree  does  not  fall  within  the  scope  of 
§  189  and  the  remedy  is  to  appeal  from  the  decree  of  judgment. 

Vytianathan  Ohetty  v.  Meenatchi,  No.  33647  D.  C.  Colombo  137 

(ii)    See  "Deed"  lri2 

Compensation — 

See  "Land  Acquisition"  72 

Compounding  prosecution — 

See  "Promissory  Note"  5? 

Confession 

Confession  made  to  2'olice  officer  at  departmental  inquiry — inad- 
missible when  person  malting  it  is  subsequently  charged — giving 
false  information  to  public  q-ficer — wliether  informant  s/umld  be 
allowed  to  bring  criminal  case  before  proceedings  are  taken  against 
him — Evidence  ordinance  No.  14  of  1895,  §  17 — Penal  Code  No.  2 
of  1883  ^180. 


57 


^      °       '  PAGE 

The  accused  presented  a  petition  to  the  Assistant   |°Peri^*«^^«^* 

of  Police,  charging  one  of  his  .^j'^"',"^^'^^*?^' ^^n^    The  AsSs- 
Officer  with  having  obtained  an  illegal  gratification    The  Assis 
tant  Siperintendent,  thereupon,  ''eld  a  departmental  inqmry   at 
which  the  accused  admitted  his  guilt  and  begged  for  pardon. 

Thereafter  the  accused  was  charged  in  the  Police  Court  with 
having  given  false  information  to  a  public  officer  under  §  l»u 
of  the  Ceylon  Penal  Code. 

Held,  that  the  statements  made  by  the  accused  to  the  police  Offi- 
cer at  the  departmental  inquiry,  admitting  his  guilt  and  asking 
for  pardon  were  not  admissible  in  evidence. 

Where  an  accused  gives  false  information  to  a  Public  officer  it  is  not 
necessary  that  he  should  be  given  an  opportunity  of  bringing   a 
criminal  case  against  the  person  informed  against  before  he  is 
prosecuted  under  §  180  of  the  Penal  Code. 
A.  S.  P.  Matara  e.  Gunesekere,  No.  4637,  P.  0.  Matara  26 

Consideration — 

See  "Promissory  Note" 

Contract— 

(i)     Marriage  Ijruh-riKje  cuntmct—wliethe.fenforceaUe  by  action. 

The  plaintiff  sought  to  recover  a  sum  of  Es.  300  from  the  defen- 
dant on  an  agreement  in  writing  by  the  latter  to  pay  him  that 
amount  if  he  succeeded  in  bringing  about  a  marriage  between 
him  and  a  certain  lady  who  was  named  in  the  agreement  with  a 
dowry  of  Rs.  5000. 
Held,  that  the  contract  which  formed  the  subject  of  the  suit  was 
a  marriage  brokerage  contract  and  that  an  action  could  not  be 
maintained  upon  it. 

Livera  r.  Gonsalves,  No  20357  C.  R.  Negombo. 

(ii)  Contract  to  deliver  goods  at  future  time — Delivery  in  moiithlij 
parcels — lireach  'before  the  time  for  complete  f  erf ormance — actum 
for  damages  for  deticenj  of  goods  for  two  montlis — no  bar  to  subse- 
quciit  action  with  regard  to  succeeding  montlis — Ciril  Procedure 
Code  §§  34  &  201 — measure  of  damages — difference  between  the 
contract  and  market  price  each  month-resjudicata. 

The  defendant  on  the  25th  August  1910  agreed  to  supply  the 
plaintiff  with  360  bales  of  sarees  and  dhooties  within  one  year 
from  the  1st  ot  September  1910  to  the  31st  August  1911  at  the 
rate  of  30  bales  a  month.  The  defendant  made  default  in  supp- 
lying the  sarees  and  dhooties  in  the  months  of  October  and 
November  1910.  Plaintiflfs  on  7th  January  1911  instituted 
action  D.  0.  Colombo  31911  for  recovery  of  R 1-5000  as  damages 
and  obtained  judgment.  In  that  action  the  defendant  pleaded 
that  the  contract  was  not  duly  entered  into,  in  that  one  Thomas 
Marsden  who  had  signed  the  contract  on  behalf  of  the  defen- 
dants had  no  authority  to  do  so.  At  the  trial  of  that  case 
the  defendants  Counsel  stated  that  "  he  did  not  intend  to 
press  the  matter." 

The  present  action  was  brought  to  recover  a  sum  of  R8700  as 
damages  for  a  period  subsequent  to  the  month  of  November 
1910. 

The  defendant  pleaded  that  (1)  the  contract  entered  into 
having  been  signed  by  Thomas  Marsden  was  void  (1)  in  view 
of  §§  34  and  207  the  action  was  barred  (3)  that  the  plaintiffs 
are  not  entitled  tc  damages  for  each  separate  default. 


(    9    ) 

PAGE, 

Held  (1)  that  the  judgment  in  D.  C.  Colombo  31911  operated  as 
rex'jndleata  on  the  Ist  objection. 

An  order  made  of  consent  in  a  case  operates  as  much  as  an  es- 
toppel as  an  order  made  after  adjudication  on  evidence. 

Held,  (2)  that  the  action  was  not  barred  by  reason  of  ^  §  34  and 
207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code. 

The  plaintiffs  had  the  option  ot  treating  the  whole  contract  as 
at  an  end  and  claiming  damages  in  respect  of  a  breach  of  the 
whole  contract  or  of  treating  the  contract  as  subsisting  arid 
claiming  damages  for  each  default  thereunder   committed. 

Held  (3)  that  the  measure  of  damages  is  calculated  by  the 
difference  between  the  contract  price  and  the  market  price 
not  at  the  time  of  the  breach  of  the  contract,  but  at  the  time 
or  times  when  the  defendant  made  default  in  supplying  the 
goods. 

Muthukaruppen  Chetty  c.  Habibhoy,  No.  SST'ZS,  D.  C.  Colombo  102 

(iii)    See  "  Vendor  and  purchaser  "  llO 

Co-owners. — 

Co-owners — one  co-owner  (lemnung  on  the  whole  land — action  hij 
person  claimini/  to  ie  co-owner  for  declaration  of  title  and  in- 
junction— witether  injunction  should  ie  allowed  pendiny  trial  of 
action. 

The  plaintiffs  asserting  title  to  a  half  share  of  a  field  com- 
plained that  the  1st  defendant  who  claimed  title  under  the 
other  defendants  who  were  entitled  to  the  other  half  share 
of  the  land,  were  carrying  on  gemming  operations  on  the 
laud  and  appropriating  the  gems  found  therein  and  prayed 
for  a  declaration  of  title,  possession,  damages  and  an  in- 
junction. 

Held,  considering  the  rights  of  co-owners  as  explained  ia  Hili:ii. 
Appuhamy  v  Adria  and  also  the  difficulty  in  establishing  the 
quantity  and  value  of  the  gems  that  may  be  found  and  re- 
moved, the  plaintiffs  were  entitled  to  an  injunction  pending 
the  final  determination  of  the  rights  of  the  parties. 

llohammado  v  Bawther,  No.  29763  C,  B.  Colombo.  8 

Costs — 

(i)    Costs — matrimonial  actions — dlicretion  of  Court — Civil  Procedure 
Code  §  211, 

Section  211  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  gives  a  discretionary 
power  to  the  Code  in  matrimonial  as  well  as  in  other  actions. 
The  old  rule  that  in  an  action  for  divorce  a  ninculo  matri- 
monii the  husband  is,  as  a  general  rule,  liable  to  pay  his 
wife's  costs  should  be  kept  in  view  by  Courts  of  Justice  in 
the  exercise  of  the  discretion  conferred  by  §  211  of  the  Civil 
Procedure  Code. 

Mepi  Nona  v  Silva,  No.  11512,  D.  C.  Galle  66 

(ii)     Order  in  reievw  of  taxation.    See  "  Appeal  (v)  " 

Court. — 

(i)     Power  to  direct  sale  of  property  in  any  order.     See  "Mortgage"'  139 

(ii)     Undertaking  to  abide  by  order  of  Court;    See  "  Appeal  "  69,  143 
(iii)    Application  to  certify  payment — discretion  of  Court, 

See  "  Appeal  (iii)"  63 


(     10     ) 


PAGE 


Court  of  Requests — 

(i)    See    "Appeal  (iii)"  63^ 

(ii)  Jurisdiction  of  Court  of  Reqvests — action  for  damages  dejyending — 
on  proof  of  title  to  land — possessory  action — test  of]urisdiction 
'valne  of  land 
The  plaintiff  averred  title  to  2/3rd  share  of  a  certain  field  and 
alleged  that  the  defendant  had  ousted  him  and  appropriated 
the  crop  of  the  field  and  claimed  Rs.  35  as  damages.  The  de- 
fendant denied  the  plaintiff's  title  and  the  alleged  ouster 
stated  that  he  was  a  lessee  under  the  trustee  of  the  Dalada 
Maligawa,  who  was  subsequently  added  as  a  party,  and  set 
up  the  title  of  the  temple.  At  the  trial  the  plaintiff's  Proctor 
stated  that  the  action  was  intended  to  be  a  possessory  action 
and  that  the  prayer  for  possession  was  omitted  by  an  over- 
sight.    The  land  was  admitted  to  be  worth  over    Rs.  300. 

Held,  that  in  view  of  the  pleadings  the  claim  for  damages  de- 
pends on  proof  of  title  to  the  land  and  that  the  Court  of 
Requests  has  no  jurisdiction  to  try  the  case. 

TMd    also,    that  even    if  this  can  be  regarded  as  a   possessory 
suit  the  question  as  to  the    value  of  the  action    remains   the 
same. 
Dingiri  Appuhamy  v.  Appuhamy,  No.  11509,  C.  R.  Kegalle  87 

Criminal  Procedure  Code — 

Criminal  Procedure  Code  %  296  {1) — accused  undefended — duti/  of 
Police  Magistrate  to  explain  main  poiyits  against  him  and  his 
right  to  gice, evidence. 

Where  an  accused  is  not  represented  by  a  pleader  there  must 
be  something  on  the  face  of  the  record  to  show  that  the 
provisions  of  §  296  (1)  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code,  entit- 
ling an  accused  person  to  ba  expressly  informed  of  his  right 
to  give  evidence  on  his  own  behalf  and  as  to  what  are  the 
main  points  against  him  were  complied  with. 
Fernando  r.  Perera,  No.  739,  P.  C.  Matale.  76. 

Damages — 

See  "  Contract  "  jq2 

Dceree — 

Amendment — §  189  Ciril  Procedure  Code.    See  "Collation"  137 

Deed— 
(i)    See  "  Donation  ''  52  5^47 

(ii)    Proof  of  ewecvtion.    See  "  Civil  Procedure  Code  (v)',  100- 

(iii)  Forfeiture  of  an  inheritance— renunciation  cf  an  inheritance — son 
being  given  some  prope?-ty  iy  deed  for  and  on  account  of  the  ska7-e 
of  the  maternal  inherit ance  due  to  him— construction  of  deed- 
testamentary  action— collation  or  hotchpot— issue  must  te  raised 
—point  of  time  at  which  j'arfy  can  he  ashed  to  collate  is  wlienthe 
shares  of  the  heirs  are  settled. 

In  re  estate  of  Maria  Perera,  deceased,  No.  3863,  D.O.   Colombo  l.-,2 

Defendant — 

MoHgage  action — who  may  he  joined.     See    "Mortgage"  50 

Donation — 

(i)  Donation— delivery  of  deed  not  necessary— when  donation  may  he 
accepted— acts  of  acceptance— whether  acce/itance  should  be  bv 
deed.  ' 


(  n   ) 

PAGE. 

The  delivery  of  a  deed  is  not  essential  for  its  valdity  under  our 
law. 

A  donation  may  be  accepted  at  any  time  during  the  life  time  of 
the  donor,  and  where  its  fulfilment  is  postponed  until  after 
the  donor's  death,  it  may  even  be  accepted  after  the  donor's 
death. 

The    delivery    of   the    deed    of  donation   to  the  donee  and  the 
sut  sale  by  the  donee  of  some  of  the  lands    gifted    are 
both  acts  of  acceptance  of  the  donation. 

Wickremesekere  v  Wijetnnpfe,   No.  21829,    D.  C.  Kandy  :i2 

(ii)     Donation  to  minor — acceptance  may  he  by  minor  or   acjent — future 

hnxhand  of  minor   an   ayent — 'hlive)-y    of  deed — jirexumptio/t    in 

favour  of  acceptance. 

Under  the  Roman-Duch-Law  no  particular  form  is  required 
for. the  acceptance  of  the  gift.  It  is  in  every  case  a  question 
of  fact  whether  or  not  there  are  sufficient  indications  of  the 
acceptance  by  the  donee. 

A  deed  of  gift  to  a  minor  may  be  accepted  by  the  minor  himself 

or  through  any  agent  recognised  by  him  for  that   purpose. 

The  future  husband  of  a  minor  daughter  is  entitled  to  act  as 
.  an  agent  in  that  behalf. 
Where  a  deed  of  gift  was  delivered  to  the  future  husband  of  the 

donee  on  the  occasion  of  the  marriage  along  with  other 

present. 
Tletd.  the  inference  is  irresistible, that  the   donee   accepted  the 

deed 

Per  Laxcelles  C.  J.  There  is,  I  think,  a  natural  preeumption 
in  all  these  cases  that  the  deed  is  accepted.  Every  instinct 
of  human  nature  is  in  favour  of  that  presumption,  and  I 
think  when  a  valuable  gift  has  been  offered  and  it  is  alleged 
it  has  not  been  accepted,  some  reason  should  be  shown  for 
the  alleged  non-acceptance  of  the  deed. 

Hendrick  r.  Sudritaratne,  No.  10794,  D.  C.  Galle.  80 

(lii)  Deed  of  donation — donation  hij  grandmother  to  mi/tor  grand — 
children — acceptance  hg  granil-vncle — retocation  of  deed  and  xalc 
hg  donor  to  grand  uncle — prior  registration  if  deed  of  sale — ■ 
'linowledge  of  prior  deed — Ordinance  yo.  14  of  1891  §  17. 

The  first  defendant  executed  a  deed  of  donation  of  certain  lands 
in  favour  of  the  plaintiffs,  her  minor  grand  children,  in  1905. 
The  donation  was  accepted  by  the  2nd  defendant,  brother  of 
the  1st  and  grand-uncle  of  the  minors.  In  1908  the  1st 
.  defendant  revoked  the  deed  of  donation  and  sold  the  lands  to 
the  2nd  defendant.  The  deed  of  sale  was  registered  before 
the  deed  of  donation. 

Ifeld,  That  the  deed  of  sale  prevailed  by  virtue  of  prior  regist- 
ration, over  the  deed  of  donation. 

The  mere  notice  of  the  deed  of  donation  will  not  deprive  the 
2nd  defendant  of  the  benefit  of  his  registration. 

Obiter,  Lacellex  C.  ./. — The  words  "fraud  or  collusion  in  securing 
such  prior  registration"  are  limited  to  cases  where  the  fraud 
or  collusion  has  occured  in  the  act  of  securing  the  registra- 
tion so  that  the  registration  itself  is  vitiated^thereby. 

Mohamado  Sali  v.  Ayesha  Umma,  No.  3766,  D.  C.  Batticaloa  147 

Estoppel^- 

See  "  Res  Judicata  ■  30 


(     12     ) 

PAGE, 
26 


Evidence — 

See  "Confession" 

Fjilse  Information — 

See  "  Confession'' 

Fidei-commissum  .  ,o,. 

(i)    Fidei  Comimssim—Jv.s  Acerescendi-Ordimnce   iVo.  SI    qf   l>^ii. 
Section  20. 

Simon  Moraes  and  his  wife  Justina  Perera  executed  a  last  will 
dated  7th  July,  1894,  which  contained  the  following  clause:— 
•'  We  do  hereby  give  and  bequeath  to  Lucia  Perera  (1st  defen- 
dant )  Ana  Perera  (2nd  defendant)  and  Maria  Perera  of  Colombo 
(sisters  of  the  textatrix)  one  just  half  of  our  property  whatsoever 
beloneinff  to  us  and  the  other  one  half  to  Philippa  Moraes  and 
Helena  Moraes  (sisters  of  the  textator)  who  shall  after  our  death 
hold  and  "possess  the  same  without  mortgaging,  selling,  granting 
or  otherwise  alienating  the  same  or  any  part  thereof  but  shall 
only  enjoy  the  rents  and  profits  thereof  and  after  their  deaths 
the  said  share  shall  devolve  on  their  lawful  issue  without  any 
restriction  whatsoever." 

Maria  Perera  died  without  issue  leaving  a  last  will  by  which  she 
appointed  her  husband  (3rd  defendant)  her  executor. 

It  was  common  ground  that  the  will  of  Simon  Perera  created  a 
Fidei-Co!iimissnm-a,nd  the  question  was  whether  upon  the  death 
of  Maria  Perera  without  issue  her  share  passed  to  her  executor 
or  under  the  Jus  accresceiidi  devolved  on  her  co -devisees. 

Held,  that,  as  the  intention  of  the  testators  was  not  to  preserve 
the  property  intact  but  to  divide  it  equally  between  the  two 
groups,  the  sisters  of  the  husband  and  the  sisters  of  the  wife 
surviving  at  the  death  of  the  testator,  on  the  death  of  Slaria 
without  issue  her  share  in  the  property  was  fueed  from  the 
Fidei- Commlssum,  and  the  Jvs  accrescendi  did  not  apply. 

Perera  f.  de  Silva,  No.  4708  D.  C.  Chilaw 

(ii)     Fidei  Coimidsxiim — words    creating    fidei — commissum — assign/! — 
plena proprietas  cum  onere  fidei  commissi — acceptance — assigns. 

The  following  words  in  a  deed  were  held  to  have  created  a  fidei 

ccnimissum, 

"  I  have  given,  granted,  assigned,  transferred  and  set  over  unto 
Johannes  and  Brezina  their  heirs  executors  administrators  and 
assigns  as  a  donation  absolute  and  irrevocable  but  subject  to  the 
conditions  and  provisions  herein  after  stated  and  mentioned,  all 

that  (description  of  the  property  donated) to 

have  and  to  hold  the  said  premises  unto  them  the  said  Johannes 
and  Brezina  their  heirs,  executors  administrators  and  assigns  for 
ever.  Provided  always  that  the  said  garden  and  buildings  shall 
not  at  any  time  be  sold  mortgaged  or  in  any  other  manner  alie- 
nated but  shall  be  only  held  possessed  and  enjoyed  by  them  and 
their  heirs  and  descendants  in  perpetuity  under  the  bond  of  _fidei 
commissum  and  the  rents  issues  and  profits  thereof  shall  not  be 
liable  to  be  attached  seized  or  sold  by  others  for  the  debts  of  the 
said  Johannes  and  Brezina  or  of  their  heirs  and  descendants  and 
provided  also  that  on  failure  or  extinction  of  heirs  the  said 
garden  and  buildings  shall  revert  to  and  become  the  property  of 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church  of  St.  Lucia and 

I  the  said  Johanna  for  myself  my  executors  and  administrators  do 
convenant  promise  and  agree  to  and  with  the  said  Johannes  and 
Brezina  their  heirs  executors  administrators   that  I   the   said 


26 


(    13    ) 

PAGE. 

Johanna  have  not  at  any  time  made  done  or  committed  any  act 
whereby  the  hereby  granted  premises  may  be  impeached  in  title." 
In  Roman-Dutch  Law  there  is  such  a  thing  as  plena  proprieiaf: 
cum  one're  fidei  commissi. 

Dr.  Coudert  v.  Elias  Appuhamy,  No.  36298  D.  C.  Colombo,  170 


50 
132 


Fiscal' 

s  Sale.— 

(i) 
(ii) 

See 
See 

"Mortgage"' 

"  Jus  Retentionis 

Fraud 

— 

See 

"  Registration  " 

Husband  &  Wife.— 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

See 
See 
See  " 

"  Prescription  " 
"  Contract  " 

'  Costs  " 

li7 


14 

64 
66 

Hypothecary  action — 

See    '•  Mortgage  "  50 

Injunction — 

See    "  Co-owners  "  8 

Jus  accrescendi — 

See    "  Fideioommissum  "  1 

Jus  retentionis — 

Jus  retentionis — right  of  n  tenant  to  retain  /xissi'ssion — inclut- 
ateright — cannote  hassigned  not  seized inexecut inn. 

The     right  of   a    tenant    under  the   Roman   Dutch  Law    to 
retain    poe  session    is    an     inchoate    right    and     is     neither 
assignable  nor  capable  of  being  seized  and  soldat  a  Fiscal's 
sale  under  a  writ  against  the  tenant. 
Welaidan  Chetty  r  Piyaratne,  No.  21750  D.  C.  Kandy  132 

Judges — 

Judges,  duty  of — observations  as  to  impropriety  of  allowing  personal 
knowledge     of     character    of    litigantsto   interfere  with  judg- 
ments. 
Adakflppa  Chetty  v  Rambukpota,  No.  2624    D.  C.  BaduUa  gn 

Jurisdiction, — 

See    "  Court  of  Requests  "  87 

Land  Acquisition 

Land  acijuisitinn  Ordinance  Xo.  3  of  1876 — issus  to  he  tried 
by  Court — matters  to  be  coimdered  in  awarding  compen- 
sation— %21  not  exhaustive — proper  course  for  assessing  comjien- 
sation. 

The  issue  that  has  to  be  tried  by  the  Court  in  a  proieedinff 
under  the  land  acquisition  Ordinance  is  what  amount  of 
compensation  the  -defendant  is  entitled  to  receive  for  the 
portion  of  his  land    taken  over   by-  the  Government. 


(    14    > 

PAGE. 

V  21  of  the  land  acquisition  Ordinance  is  npt  exhaustive 
of  all  the  matters  to  be  taken  into  consideration  in  award- 
ing compensation. 

When  the  matters  mentioned  in  §  21  of  the  Ordinance  do 
not  afford  a  safe  guide  forassessing  compensation  for  a  por- 
tion of  land  acquired  by  Government  the  proper  course 
would  be  to  find  the  market  value  of  the  entire  land  and  then 
to  estimate  the  value  of  the  portion  of  the  land  taken  at 
that  rate. 
G.  A.,   W.  P.   , .   Archbishop   of    Colombo,  No.  8905  D.  C.Negombo        72 

Mortgage — 

(i)  Miirtijagr  an' ion — ivhether  jnirchaser  of  Fiscal' x  sale  who  lias 
iiKt  obtainetl  Fiscal' s  conceyance  can  ie  joined — observations  as 
to  who  may  he  joined. 

A  hypothecary  action  can  be  brought  against  a.  person, 
who  has  purchised  the  property  mortgaged  at  a  Fiseal's 
sale  held  in  execution  of  a  writ  against  the  mortgagee, 
but  who  has  not  yet  obtained  a  Fiseal's  conveyance  in  his 
favour. 

Per  Perei<-a  J. —  Voet  (,80.  4.  2.)  mentions  certain  persons 
against  whom  the  action  may  be  brought,  but  the  test 
Is  by  no  means  exhaustive.  The  object  of  the  action 
is  to  bind,  by  an  order  for  the  sale  of  the  property  for 
the  satisfaction  of  the  amount  advanced  to  the  debtor, 
all  those  who  have  or  claim  to  have  an  interest  in  the 
I  property    acquired.    Of   course,   a   person    having  or   claim- 

ing to  have  no  such  interest  may  not  be  sued  in  such 
an  action,  but  the  question  of  interest  is  .not  to  be  too 
narrowly  scrutinized  because  the  defendant  is  in  no 
way  prejudiced  by  the  action  so  long  as  no  costs  are 
claimed  against  him  except  in  the  event  of  an  unreason 
able  con  test  by  him  of  the  plaintiff's  claim. 
Silva  r.  Fernando,  No.  9103,  D.  0  Negombo.  50 

(ii)  Morff/ar/e—sale  of  mortgage  lands  to  third  parti/— concealment 
of  sale— t, -an  sfer  in  favour  of  mortgagee— disch'irge  af  mortnane 
delt— mortgagee's  deed  of  transfer  ineffectual— revival  of  mort- 
gage—where  sercral  lands  moi-t.gaged — Court  has  power  to 
direct  sale  in  any  ordet — CiHl  Procedure  Code  Xo  2  of  1889  « 
301. 

The  1st  and  4th  defendants  mortgaged  two  fields  to  the 
plamtifiF  on  29th  August  1909  by  deed  A  registered  on 
drd  September  1910,  and  by  another  deed  B  of  9th  Sept- 
eniber  ]9l0  the  1st  defendant  mortgaged  a  share  of  another 
field.  On  13th  September  1910  the  1st  defendant  sold  his 
share  of  the  fields  to  the  2nd  defendant  by  deed  C  registered 
on  ?2nd  September  1910.  On  13thDecember  I9l0  the  1st 
defendant  concealing  the  fact  that  he  had  parted  with  his 
rights  m  these  fields  transferred  them  to  the  plaintiff  by  deed 
Dandobtamed  a  discharge  of  half  the  debt  due  on  A  and  the 
entirety  of  the  debt    due    on  B.    The    2nd  defendant  trans 

?JrfAn5f/'foS!K'^{.^^^'''i\*°    ^'^^    3rd  defendant  by 
QeedA  D  ■'  dated  29th  February  I9l2. 

/Mrf,  thatif  the  deeds  O&ADSare  to  be  deemed  to  have 
the  effect  of  rendering  ineffectual  deed  D.  in  the  plain- 
*  *^  o  °''f  u  *^^  plaintiff's  rights  on  the  mortgage  bonds 
A  &  B  must  be  taken  to  have  revived. 


(xv) 


PAGE 
held    also,    that    under  §    301    of  the    Civil   Procedure     Code 
it  is    competent  to    the  Court  to    give    directions  as   to    the 
order  in  which  mortgaged  properties  should  be  sold. 
Wijesinghe  t-  Dingiri  Appuhamy,  No.  44l4  D.  C,  Kurunegala  189 

Market  Value— 

Xcr  "Land  Acquisition  "  72 

Marriage  brocage — 

Hee    "  Contract  "  6 1 

Minor — 


'  Donation  " 


52,80 


Misjoinder — 
Ordinances — 


(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 

(V) 

(vi) 
(vii) 
(viii) 

(ix) 


'Civil  Procedure  Cod  3  (ii)" 


No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 


12  of  1840 

21  of  1844,  §20 
3  of  1876 

15  of  1876  §39 

1  of  1889  §80 

2  of  1889  §§2l  &  39 
14  of  1891  §§14  &17 

22  of  1909  §  11 

22  of  1909  §§  4  &  37 


Payment- 


*(> 

'•  \Dpeal  " 

4z 

See 

"  Fidei-Commissum'' 

1 

Hfo 

"  Land   Acquisition  " 

72 

See 

'■  Collation" 

nr 

Scr 

"  Appeal  " 

78 

Sep 

"  Appeal " 

47 

,SW' 

"  Registration'' 

147,15.-1 

Sn- 

"  Promissory  Note  " 

11 

St'f 

"  Stamp  Duty  " 

166 
134 

IF.  a. 

(xi)  ■■ 

63,90 

See     "  Prescription  " 
See    "  Appeal  (iii)"  and 

Partition — 

See    "  Appeal  (iv)  " 
Partnership — 

Ciril    Pnirf/Jure    Code  §     34 — -yiliffi/ig     of  claims — dissuliition  of 

jKlrtni'rxhijj    till   dissolution  —  inihspqw  tit  action    for  uoconnt    of 

1/iisiness    after  disfiOlution — (tfniier  action    brougJd  after  cause  of 

action    in  latter    action     accrued — xiili.ieqiirnt   action     do's    not 

lie. 

Plaintiff's  father  .s'.  &  1st  defendant  traded  as  partners. 
S.  died  on  the  10th  of  March  1907  and  the  piitnership 
came  to  an  end,  On  23rd  .Inly  1908  the  executor  of  S. 
sutd  1st  defendant  for  account  of  partnership  business 
till  death  of  S.  In  that  action  judgment  wasentered  in 
favour  of  S's  estate  for  Rs.  5116-45,  Plaintiff  brought  the 
present  action  on  the  30th  December  1910  for  an  account 
of  the  income  and  expenditure  of  thesaid  business  bet- 
ween 1 0th  April  1 907    and    31st  December  1907. 

The  defendant  pleaded  the  judgment  and  decree  in  the  former 
action  as  res  judicata. 

Held,  that  the  plea  of  res  judicata  was  bad  as  there  was 
no  adjudication  in  the  former  action  on  the  matter  at 
issue  in  the  present  Ection  namely  the  liability  of  the 
defendant  to  account  for  the  profits  derived  from  the 
use  of  the  partnership  assets  after  S's  death. 


69 


(  xvi  ) 

PAGE. 

EM,  also  that  tLe  second  action  is  barred  by  §  34  of  the 
Civil  Procedure  Code.  The  cause  of  action  in  both 
cases  is  one  and  the  same  namely  the  refusal  or  failure 
of  the  defendant  to  account  to  S's  estate  for  the  share 
of  the  profits  due  to  it  by  the  partnership. 
Somasunderam  '.  Sinnatamby,  No.  31896,  D.C.  Colombo.  »1 

Paulian  Action — 

Xi-tion  to    -let   asiilr   derj—who  can    hring— fraud—what    must  he 

priwed. 
Under  the  Roman  Dutch  Law  an  action  to  set  aside  a 
deed  on  the  ground  of  fraud  is  granted  only  in  favour 
of  a  creditor  to  whose  prejudice  the  alienation  had  been 
eifected,  or  to  the  heirs  of  such  a  creditor,  and  is  main- 
tainable only  on  proof  of  the  intention  of  the  insolvent- 
alienor  to  defraud  his  creditors  and  of  the  fact  that  at 
least  one  creditor  had  been  so  defrauded. 
Punohi  Menika  -•.     Dingiri  Menika,  No.  +760  D.O.  Kurunegalle    _  93 

Penal  Code  §—180 

See  "  Confession  "  26 

Plaint— 

Se    "  Stamp  Duty ''  166 

Possessory  action — 

See    ■'  Court  of  Requests,  "  Prescription  "  87,143 

Prescription — 

(i)  Prescription — deed  of  xale  by  wife  without  husband's  aiithoriti/, 
when  set  aside — action  for  refnnd  of  consideration — ivhen 
accrues. 
Where  money  has  been  paid  as  consideration  for  an  inva- 
lid deed  of  sale  under  which  the  purchassr  has  obtained 
possession  and  where  steps  are  taken  to  have  the  deed  set 
aside  and  the  purchaser  ejected,  the  purchaser  is  entitled 
to  claim  the  re-payment  of  the  purchase  money  and 
prescription  will  begin  to  run  against  him  from  the  time 
when  such  steps  are  taken  and  not  from  the  date  when 
the  consideration  was  paid. 

Silva  T  Silva,  No.  6194,  C.  R.  Kalutara.  14 

(ii)  Property  purcliased  in  trust — action  for  conveijunce — cause 
of  action — prescription — plaintiff  in  possession  of  property. 
Plaintiff's  deceased  brother  bought  a  piece  of  land  with 
the  plaintiff  s  money  and  on  his  betialf.  The  deed  of  trans- 
fer was  however  executed  in  the  plaintiff's  brother's  name. 
On  the  strength  of  this  purchase  the  plaintiff  entered  into 
possession  of  the  land  In  1895  and  possessed  it  till  I9l2.  In 
the  latter  year,  on  the  death  f  ttie  plaintiff's  brother  the 
defendant  as  his  administratrix  included  the  said  land  in 
the  inventory  of  his  estate.  Plaintiff  thereupon  alleging 
that  the  property  was  purchased  by  the  deceased  in  trust 
for  him  sued  the  defendant  for  a  conveyance.  The  defen- 
dant inler  alia  pleaded  that  the  plaintiff's  cause  of  action 
was  barred  by  prescription  in  aa  much  as  the  action  was  not 
brought  within  three  years  of  the  date  of  t  urchase. 
JJeld  that  the  cause  of  action  arose  when  the  property 
was  included  in  the  inventory  and  that  the  action  was  not 
barred. 


PAGE. 

Senaratne  i\  Jane   Nona,  No.  5698,  D,0.  Matara  83 

(iii)  Prescription — action  for  wagei — part  paijir.eiit — api)mr/rdf/m''iit 
of  i)uleVte(lri,eiis  anil  i)ronil.ie  to  pay  halance — eehuttal  {if  iicJ/iioii-- 
ledgiiient     T>y   upccial     ciroimxtniicea — burden   of  proof. 

A  payment  on  account,  of  a  debt,  whether  such  debt  at 
the  time  of  payment  is  already  atatute-barred  or  not  is 
necessarily  an  acknowledgment  of  the  debt,  and  the  law 
in  the  absence  of  anything  to  the  contrary  implies  from 
the  acknowledgment  a  promise  to  pay  the  balance. 
The  implication  of  such  promise  may  be  rebutted  by  any 
special  circumstances  attending  the  pay m jnt  and  the  burden 
of  proving  such  circumstances  is  upon  the  defendant. 
Arunasalem  c  Ramasamy,  No.  36453  D.  0.  Colombo  1 34 

(iv)  A  person  who  possesses  property  in  the  hona  file,  (albeit  mis- 
taken) belief  that  the  property  is  his  own  and  be  longs 
to  nobody  else  has  clearly  the  detent io  aninw  ilomim  and 
such  possession  is  "  adverse  possession"  within  the  mean- 
ing of  §  3  of  ordinance   No.  22  of  1871 

Pereira  J. — We  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  definition  in 
English   of  either  the    term    "  possession  "    or    the     term 

"  adverse  possession." Possession  under  the 

Roman-Dutch  Law  is  either  Possessio  Civilis  or  Possessio 
Naturalis.  Possessio  Civilis  is  detentio  aninw  domini.  It  is 
this  possession  that  is  necessary  to  b?  proved  where  a 
person  seeks  either  any  of  the  possessory  remedies  or  to 
establisti  a  title  by  prescription. 
Ayano  Hamy  v  Silva,  No.  9394,  C.  R.  Balapitiya  143 

Promissory  Note — 

(i)     Promixxorji      note. — position     of    signatvre — marlt,     on    the    stamp 

atJUtredtii  tlietop  right  hand  vomer  if  t/ie  note — nincellation  if 
stamp. 

When  a  promissory  note  was  signed  with  what  purported 
to  be  a  mark  made  by  the  defendant  on  a  stamp  affixed 
at  the  top  right  hand  corner  of  the  note  with  the  defen- 
dant's name  in  full  written  across  the  stamp. 

Held,  the  note  was  not  duly  signed  by  the  defendant. 

Semble,  Looked  at  in  the  light  on  the  stamp  Ordinance 
(Sect  11)  which  applies  to  the  case  it  would  appear 
that  the  signature  was  intended  for  the  cancellation  of 
the  stamp  and  nothing  more. 

Semble,    Had    the    stamp    been    at    the  foot   of  the   document 
the    single    act    of    signing    across    it  may  be    tantamount 
to    the    execution    of   the    document   and    the   cancellation 
of  the  stamp, 
fflohammado  c.  Rawther,  No.    29763  C.  R.  Colombo  11 

(ii)     Promissory  note — consideration — couiponndini/  compimiidahle  offem-e. 
(ii)     A    promissory    note    granted    for     compounding    a     criminal 
prosecution  that  is  compoundable  in  law  cannot   be  saidto  be  a 
note  for  illegal  consideration. 

Fernando  r.  Buyzer,  No.  34370,  C.R.  Colombo  .57 

Rei  Vindiactio  cation — 

Action  for  declaration  of  title — oiixtei — defendani  acqvirinij 
title  after  the  institution  of  the  action — title  in  a  third 
party  at  the  time  of  the  institution — Jus  tertil — htffo  Crown  land 
can  be  alienated. 


(  xTiii  ) 

PAGE_ 

In  an  action  for  declaration  of  title  to  land  a  party  defen- 
dant is  not  entitled  to  rely  on  a  deed  obtained  after  the 
date  of  the  institution  of  the  action,  in  support  of  a 
prayer  for  the  dismissal  of  the  plaintiff's  action,  on  the 
ground  of  superior  title,  nor  is  he  entitled  to  set  up  the 
title  of  a  third  party  as  against  the  plaintiff's  claim. 

Silri(  i.  Silra.  Poniiaiiima  r.  M'rrrasooiiya,  and  ^Silfii  r. 
Xuna  Haniine  held  not  in  point  as  the  documents  the 
effect  of  which  has  been  considered  in  these  are  Fiscal's 
conveyances  which  confer  title  that  relate  back  to  the  actual 
sales  in  execution.  A  formal  Grant  under  the  public  seal  of 
the  Colony  which  is  the  only  means  by  which  the  Governor 
is-  empowered  to  alienate  land  belonging  to  the  Crown  has  not 
that  effect. 

Per  Periii'u  J.  The  defendants  cannot  succeed  in  their  prayer 
for  a  dismissal  of  the  plaintiff'  claim  unless  they  show  that 
they  did  not  oust  the  plaintiff  or  they  are  in  a  position  to 
justify  the  ousttr  by  proof  that  at  the  date  of  the  ouster  they 
had  a  superior  title  or  were  acting  under  the  authority  of 
somebody  having  a  superior  title.  The  mere  fact  that  some 
third  person  had  a  title  superior  to  that  of  the  plaintiff  is  no 
justification  at  all  for  the  ouster  by  the  defendants.  So  that 
neither  the  fact  that  at  the  date  of  ouster  pleaded,  the 
Orown  had  title  nor  the  fact  that  since  the  commencement  of 
the  action  the  defendants  have  acquired  title  is  relevant 
on    the  question  whether,  the  ouster  was  justified. 

Gooneratne  '■.  Fernando,  No.  325i  D.  C.  Kurunegalle.  S> 

Registration'  Prior — 

(i)     See    ■'  Donation  "  (iii)  '  147 

(ii)      lieqistnifion — gift      bi/    tlie    iirigimil    owner — jiriuf       registratiuit 
(if  latter  deeil,  effed  if — iirdinaitce  JVa.ld  of  189\,  §  14. 

Sanchiappu  and  his  wife  TJnguhamy  who  were  married 
in  community  of  property  were  the  original  owners  of 
certain  parcels  of  land.  After  Sauohiappu's  death  Ungu- 
hamy  by  deed  D  8  dated  25th  November,  1898  conveyed  a 
half  share  of  the  lands  to  the  4th  defendant  and  the  wife 
of  the  3rd  defendant.  After  the  death  of  Unguhamy, 
Sirimalhamy  one  of  the  four  children  of  Sanchiappu  and 
Unguhamy  conveyed  by  deed  P  1  dated  the  18th  January, 
1912,  a  fourth  share  of  the  lands  to  the  plaintiffs.  '  Deed 
Pi  was  registered  on  the  22nd  January  1912  while  deed  D8  "was 
registered  on  the  7th  August,  1912.  The  3rd  and  4th  defendants 
contended  that  though  PI  was  registered  before  D8  the  former 
cannot  take  priority  over  the  latter  in  so  far  as  the  two  deeds 
cannot  be  said  to  be  derived  from  the  same  source  (Unguhamy.) 
It  was  contende,d  that  Sirimalhamy  cannot  be  regarded  as  the 
heiress  of  her  mother  as  the  latter  by  deed  D8  had  alienated  her 
share  in  the  estate. 

//•-■W.  that  the  plaintiff's  deed  is  entitled  to  priority  over  the  de 
fendant's  deed. 

James  Appu  r.  Carolis,  No.  8896  D.  C.  Negombo  I55. 

Res  Judicata — 

(1)     lies  hidu-ata—iih-nfity  of  form  and  xt/hject  iiiufter  hot    essential— 710 
ap/'cal  from  order  under  §  232   C.P.C.—J'liujlis/i  Law  of  rex  judi- 
cata—judgment  of  consent,  efret  of—Ciril  Procrdnre  Cede    ^  ^  34 
207,232,241,252.  '  .         >  ■        , 


(    xdx     ) 


PAGE 


The  plaintiff  obtained  jadgment  against  the  defendant  and  seized 
money  due  to  him  in  the  hands  of  the  P.  0.  M.  O.,  who  sent  a 
sum  of  Rs.  570-05,  to  the  Court  in  obedience  to  the  writ.  A 
claim  was  preferred  to  the  said  sum  by  the  appellant  nnder  a 
deed  by  which  the  defendant  had  assigned  to  the  appellant  hie 
rights  under  the  contract  with  the  P.  C,  M.O.  On  the  day  of 
inquiry  the  plaintiff  consented  to  the  claini  being  upheld  and  the 
seizure  being  released. 

On  a  subsequent  date  the  P.  0.  M.  0.  remitted  to  the  Court  a 
further  sum  of  E).  553-3S  that  became  due  to  the  defendant  in 
the  case.  The  appellant  Qlaimed  it  once  more  under  his  assign- 
ment. The  plaintiff  alleffed,  however,  that  he  had  consented  to 
the  claim  being  upheld  in  ignorance  ot  the  fact  that  the  assign- 
ment in  favour  of  the  appellant  was  invalid  inasmuch  as  it  was 
made  in  breach  of  an  express  prohibition  contained  in  the  con- 
tract itself.  The  appellant  contended  that  the  matter  was  )'es 
judicata  and  could  not  be  re-opened  so  long  as  the  consent  order 
upholding  the  claim  was  in  force.  The  District  Judge  disallowed 
the  claim  over  ruling  th^  plea  of  ven  judicata  and  permitted  the 
plaintiff  to  draw  the  money.    The  claimant  appealed. 

Held,  (Lasoelles  C.J.  and  Wood  Renton  and  Peveira  J,J.)  that 
the  order  was  not  appee^lable  and  that  the  claimant  should  have 
brought  an  action  under  §  24  T  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  to 
have  the  order  on  the  claim  set  aside.  > 

J{eld,  further  {Lascelles  C.J.  and  Wood  Renton  J.  Pereira  J,  dis- 
senting) that  assuming  that  an  appeal  lay,  the  plea  of  ren  judi- 
cata should  be  upbeld. 

Lascelles  O.J.  and  Wood-  Reidoii  J.  A  judgment  by  consent  has 
the  full  effect  of  a  res  judicata. 

Sections  34,  207  and  406  o|  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  do  not  con- 
tain the  whole  law  of  re/i  judicata  in  Ceylon. 

Samitohy  Appu  v.  Pieris,  No.  21328  D.  C.  Kandy.  30 

(ii)    See  "Contract  (ii)  "  102 

(iii)    See    "  Partnership "  94 

Sale- 

See    "  Vendor  and  Purchaser  "  1 10 

Stamp  Duty — 

Stamp  duty- — pleadings  i iimfficiently   stamped — wlie.n  one?  accepted- 

cannot  he  retwned — AttorJiey  General  May  sue  to  recover  deficiency 

of  stamp  dvty. 
When  a  jnd^e,  having  considered  the  question  of  the  sufficiency 
of  stamp  duty  on  a  plaint  and  answer,  has  accepted  it,  the 
presumption  is  that  he  has  adjudicated  upon  the  sufficiency  of 
stamp  duty  and  he  cannot  thereafter  return  the  plaint  or  answer 
to  be  properly  stamped,  if  as  a  matter  of  fact  it  was  originally 
insufficiently  stamped. 

But  if  the  plaint  or  answer  is  accepted  }>er  incviiam  that  is  to  say 
as  a  result  of  an  inadvertent  omission  on  the  part  of  the  Court 
to  consider  the  question  of  the  sufficiency  on  the -stamp  thereon, 
it  may  be  that  before  any  step  in  the  regnhr  course  of  the  pro- 
cedure is  taken  by  the  opposite  party,  the  Court  may  return  the 
pleading  to  be  proper]/  stamped. 

If  there  is  any  remedy  for  it,  it  must  be  by  an  action  by  the 
Attorney-General  as  representing  "the  Grown. 


(       XX       ) 

PAG*. 

The  sufficiency  of  the  stamp  on  a  plaint   cannot   be  called   in 
question  as  a  master  of  defence  in  an  answer. 

Per  Eiinia  J. — A  plaint  is  an  hiMrunient  within  the  meaninsT  of 
section  i  of    the    stamp  ordinance  Ko.  22  of   1909   and  undel; 

'  section  37  of  the  Ordinance  an  im'rument  once  admitted  in 
evidence  shall  not  except  as  provided  in  the  section  be  called  in 
question  ;it  any  stapre  of  the  same  suit  or  proceeding  on  the 
(ground  that  it  is  not  duly  stamped. 

Per  Pererifi  J. — section  37  of  the  stamp  Ordinance,  I  do  not  think 
applies  to  pleadings  in  cases.  It  refers  to  instruments  tendered 
in  evidence  and  clearly  a  plaint  does  not  answer  to  that  descrip- 
tion of  document.  ' 

Jayawickreme  v.  Amatasooriya,  No.  11862  D.  C.  Galle  166 

Signature. — 

See-  "  Promissory  Note  "  II 

See     "  Civil  Procedure  Code  (v)"  100 

Seizure— 

See    "  Writ  "  23 

Testamentary  action— 

152 

Trust- 

See    "  Prescription  (ii)  "  gg 

Vendor  and  Purchaser — 

Contract  uf  sale — oMigations  hetioeen  vendors  and  ptirohasers— 
Roman  Dutch  Law— vacant  possession — vendor  loarrants  agaiiist 
eeiction  and  not  the  title  of  the  thing  sold— when  do  aetiones  red- 
hibitoria  and  rjuanti  minoris  lie. 

The  Law  governing  the  obligations  between  vendors  and  purchasers 
of  immovable  property  in  Ceylon  is  the  Roman  Dutch  Law. 

Per  Curiam,  Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J.  and  de  Sampayo  J,  Ennis  J 
dmentiente  In  the  absence  of  express  agreement  the  vendor 
does  not  warrant  the  title  of  the  thing  sold  but  only  warrants 
against  eviction. 

In  the  absence  of  fraud  or  of  an  express  warranty  of  title  the  only 
primary  obligations  resting  on  the  vendor  Of  immovable  pro- 
perty are  to  give  the  purchaser  "  vacant  possession,  "  that  is  to 
■  say  possession  unmolested  by  the  claim  of  any  other  person  in 
possession  of  the  property  sold  and  to  warrant  and  defend  the 
title  which  he  conveys  after  the  purchaser  once  placed  in  nos- 
session  has  been  evicted.  The  purchaser  cannot  in  such  cir- 
cumstances decline  to  accept  vacant  possession  on  the  ground 
that  his  vendor  s  title  is  defective. 

^'lfnw''V'"'*u"''''''-^"'?,'^^  '"'"'"  1"'"^'  ''"■"<"•'■■'  aw  competent 

only  where  th^re  is  a  defect  in  the  thing   sold   itself  Thev    are 
not  remedies  for  defect  of  title.  ^      " 

Jamie  c  Suppa  Umma,  No.  21941  D  0.  Kandy  1  jq 


.-oac-r:     mi  i^i  ni inrx 

Court  of  Appeal  (Iases 


a 

r 


u 
o 


o 

D 


^r; 


D 
O 


.-<',■+ 


OF    CEYLON: 

BEING 

Reports  of  Cases  decided  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  Ceylon 

in  its  Original  and  Appellate  Jurisdiction,  and 

sitting  as  a  Colonial  Court  of  Admiralty 

and  by  His  Majesty's  Privy  Council 

on  Appeal  from  Ceylon. 

EDITED     BY 

A.  St.  V.  JAYEWARDENE 


JAMES  JOSEPH, 

E.  G.  P.  JAYETILLEKE, 

Advocatet  of  the 

SUPREME  COURT. 

Vol  IV.  P«rt  VIII.  OCTOBER.  1916 


PRINTERS: 

Th.    CEYLONESE    UNION    Co.,    LbL 

COLOMBO. 


o 


u 

o 

D 


Barritter-at-Lau>» 

L.  H.  De  ALWIS.  !   Q 


O 


o 


^     _  j  n 

v^r-ir- loi  1^1 inr in^ 


COURT  OF  APPEAL  CASES 

OF  CEYLOIi; 

BEING 
Reports  of  Cases  Decided  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  Ceylon 

IN   ITS  original  and  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION  AND  SITTING 

as  a  colonial  court  of  admiralty  and  by 

His  Majesty's  Privy  Council  on  Appeal 

FROM  Ceylon. 


BINDDWA  V.   TYRREL  et  al. 
No.  21455  D.  C.  Kandy. 
Present :  Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J.  &  Ennis  J. 

2nd  June,  1913. 

Action  for  damages — wrongful  posurxsinn  of  Hrplimtt — tuxlicr 
— Assistant  Gocernment  Agent — also  Assistant  Superintendent  of 
Police — seizure  of  jiroperty  with  respect  to  whicli  an  offence  is  com- 
mited — prescrij>tion — Police  Ordinance  Xo,  IG  of  1865  ^^51,  59,  79 — 
Oi'iminal  Procedure  Code  §  419. 

Plaintiflf  sued  first  defendant  and  the  second  defendant  a  Bate 
Mahatmaya  for  damages  for  wrongful  possession  and  failure  to  res- 
tore an  elephant  belonging  to  him.  The  defendants  alleged  that  the 
elephant  was  a  tusker  which  had  been  captured  without  a  licence  in 
contravention  of  §§  5  (1)  and  6  (2)  of  Ordinance  No.  I  of  1909  and  was 
therefore  liable  to  confiscation  ;  that  the  1st  defendant  who  was  at 
that  time  Assistant  Government  Agent  of  Mata'e  and  also  a  Police 
Officer  directed  the  2nd  defendant  who  was  a  subordinate  under  him 
to  take  charge  of  the  elephant  with  a  view  to  its  production  before 
the  Police  Court   for  being  confiscated. 


Held,  that  where  there  is  reasonable  ground  for  a  belief  that 
an  offence  against  the  Game  Laws  has  been  committed  with  respect 
to  the  elephant,  the  1st  defendant  who  is  a  Police  officer  within  the 
meaning  of  Ordinance  No.  16  of  1865  had  the  right  under  the  general 
powers  conferred  on  the  police  by  §  51  as  also  by  the  special  powers 
created  by  §  59  of  that  enactment  to  seize  the  suspected  elephant  and 
detain  it  for  the  purpose  of  criminal  proceedings. 

Held  that  the  plaintiffs  claim  is  barred  under  §  79  of  the  Police 
Ordinance  No.  16  of  1865  in  as  much  as  his  action  had  not  been 
brought  within  three  months  from  the  date  of  the  act  complained  of. 
Per  Eiiiiis  J.  For  polic^purposes  a  Police  Ofiicer  is  considered  to  be 
always  on  duty  (§51  of  No.  16  of  1865)  In  performance  of  this  duty 
in  a  case  such  as  this  when  the  act  cannot  be  referred  to  anything 
but  this  duty  a  Police  Officer  cannot  in  my  opinion  be  regarded  as 
divesting  himself  of  his  character  as  a  Police  Officer  by  signing  in 
some  other  capacity. 

The  second  defendant  is  not  a  Police  Officer  under  Ordinance  16 
of  1685  but  he  acted  under  the  lawful  order  of  his  superior  Officer  the 
1st  defendant  and  both  of  them  are  protected  by  §  419  of  the  Criminal 
Procedure. 

Garvin,  Acting  S.  G.,  for  1st  defendant— appellant. 

A  Drieherg,  for  the  2nd  defendant — appellant. 

H.  J.  C.  Pereira  and  J.  W.  de  Silva  for  the  plaintifiE- 

respondent. 

c.  a.  V. 

Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J. — The  plaintiff -respondent, 
Binduwa.  sues  the  1st  defendant,  M".  Tyrrell,  and  the  2nd 
defendant,  Mr.  Tikiri  Banda  Aluwihare  the  Rate  Mahat- 
maya  of  Matale  South,  who  are  the  appellants,  for 
damages  for  having  taken  wrongful  possession  of,  and  failed 
to  restore,  an  elephant  belonging  to  him.  He  claims  a  de- 
claration of  title  to  the  elephant  and  estimates  his  damages 
at  Rs.  4000/.  The  defendants  allege  that  the  elephant  in 
question  waa  a  "tusker,"  which  had  been  captvired  without  a 
license  in  contravention  of  the  provisions  of  §§5.  (1)  and  6 
(2)  of  ordinance  No.  1  of  1909,  and  was,  therefore,  liable  to 
confiscation,  that  the  1st  defendant,  who  was  at  the  time 
Assistant  Government  Agent  at  Matale  and  also  a  Police 
Officer,  directed  the  2nd  to  take  charge  of  the  animal  with  a 


view  to  its  production  in  the  Police  Court  for  the  purpose  of 
being  confiscated,  and  that,  before  it  could  be  so  produced, 
it  died  from  injuries  sustained  by  it  through  its  tusks  having 
been  sawn  oif  prior  to  its  seizure,  and  not  from  any  act  of 
commission  or  omission  on  their  part.  The  defendants  also 
pleaded,  in  an  amendment  of  their  answer,  that  the  plaintiff's 
claim  was  barred  under  §.  79  of  Ordinance  16  of  1865,  in  as 
much  as  his  action  had  not  been  brought  within  three 
months  from  the  da'e  of  the  act  complained  of.  The  case 
went  to  trial  on  issues  based  on  the  allegations  in  these 
pleadings,  evidence  was  adduced  on  both  sides,  and  the 
learned  District  Judge  gave  judgment  in  the  plaiatiff's  favour 
for  Rs.  3000,  with  interest  and  costs,  directing  that  execution 
should  be  levied  in  the  first  instance  against  the  2nd  defen- 
dant. The  defendants  appeal.  The  view  taken  of  the  case 
by  the  District  Judge  may  be  summed  up  thus.  The  plain- 
tiff, on  24th  April  1911,  bought  the  elephant  in  good  faith 
for  a  sum  of  Rs.  1200/-  from  a  Moorman,  Sultan,  who  had 
brought  it  from  Mannar  on  a  permit  for  removal,  issued  by 
the  Assistant  Government  Agent  there  to  one  Marikka- 
thampi  and  dated  11th  April,  1911.  On  25th  April, 
he  brought  the  elephant,  with  several  others  which 
he  had  purchased,  to  his  village.  The  2nd  defen- 
dant, under  whom,  as  Rate  Mahatmaya  of  the  District, 
the  plaintiif  worked  as  a  Payindakaraya  or  Police 
Headman,  has  a  brother,  who  is  Rate  Mahatmaya  of  Matale 
North.  This  gentleman  had  seen,  coveted,  and  unsuccess- 
fully bid  for,  the  elephant  before  its  purchase  by  the  plain- 
tifl:.  Annoyed  at  his  failure  to  secure  the  animal,  and  also 
at  the  fact  that  the  plaintiff — a  man  of  the  Wahampura  caste 
— should  be  the  owner  of  a  number  of  elephants,  the  Rate 
Mahatmaya  abused  the  plaintiff  for  having  outbid  him  and 
set  his  brother,  the  2nd  defendant,  on  his  track.  Between 
25th  and  28th  April,  the  2nd  defendant  had  made  his  plans. 
On  the  latter  date,  in  his  letter  D  3,  he  reported  to  the  Assis- 
tant Government  Agent  the  arrival  of  Binduwa's  elephants, 
and  added  "  I  understand  there  is  a  tusker.    The    tusks  are 


said  to  have  been  cut  short."  On  30th  April,  the  elephant 
was  seized.  On  the  same  day,  in  his  letter  D4,  the  2nd 
defendant  informed  the  Assistant  Government  Agent  of  the 
seizure  and  stated  that  the  animal  seized  was  "  undoubtedly 
a  tusker."  Up  to  this  point  the  1st  defendant  had  been  act- 
ing in  good  faith.  But  from  30th  April  onwards,  he  allowed 
himself  to  become  a  mere  tool  in  the  hands  of  the  2nd  de- 
fendant, whose  conduct  had  throughout  been  actuated  by 
private  malice  against  the  plaintiff.  Gulled  by  the  Rate 
Mahatmaya's  falsehoods,  he  took  upon  himself  to  commit  the 
elephant  to  his  care,  although  the  Police  Magistrate,  Mr.  Dunu- 
wile,  thought  that  it  might  safely  be  entrusted  to  the 
plaintiff  on  adequate  security  being  given  for  its  production 
when  required.  He  directed  the  institution  of  proceedings 
against  Marikkathampi  and  Sultan,  first  in  Matale,  and  after- 
wards, when  it  appeared  that  the  Police  Court  of  Matale  had 
no  jurisdiction,  in  Mannar.  Meanwhile,  on  31st  October 
1911,  the  elephant,  which  was  still  in  the  2nd  defendant's 
custody,  died  from  neglect  and  starvation. 

Before  dealing  with  the  points  of  Law  involved  in  the 
case,  it  may  be  desirable  to  consider  the  learned  District 
Judge's  finding  on  the  evidence.  The  defendants  have  a 
right  to  insist  that  findings  of  such  a  character  shall  be  based 
on  facts  and  not  on  mere  surmises  or  suspicions. 

We  must  begin  the  case  against  the  2nd  defendant. 
The  District  Judge  accepts  the  plaintiff's  evidence  as  to 
what  took  place  between  himself  and  the  Rate  Mahatmaya 
of  Matale  North,  and  then  infers  that  it  was  the  latter  who 
spitefully  instigated  the  2nd  defendant Jto  seize  the  elephant 
from  the  fact  that,  although  the  2nd  defendant  stated  in 
substance  in  his  evidence  that  he  had  only  discovered  on 
30th  April  that  the  elephant  was  a  tusker  and  that  its  tusks 
had  been  sawn  off,  he  wrote  to  the  1st  defendant  on  28th 
April,  saying  that  among  the  plaintiff's  elephants  he  under- 
stood there  was  a  "  tusker "  whose  tusks  were  "  said  to 
have  been  cut  short.  "  The  District  Judge  concludes  that 
the  2nd  defendant  must  have  learned  the   details  embodied 


in  the  letter  of  28th  April  from  his  brother,  the  Rate  Mahat- 
maya,  and  from  him  alone,  and  on  that  conclusion  he  builds 
up  his  theory  of  a  conspiracy  between  the  two  brothers  to 
deprive  the  plaintiflE  of  his  elephant.  The  2nd  defendant 
denied  that  his  letter  of  28th  April  had  been  written  on  the 
strength  of  any  information  given  to  him  by  his  brother, 
whom  he  did  not,  however,  call  as  a  witness  at  the  trial,  and 
alleged  that,  as  far  back  as  February  or  March  1911,  he  had 
learned  of  the  recent  capture  of  a  tusker  at  Mannar  from 
the  plaintiflE  himself,  and  that,  on  22nd  or  23rd  April,  the 
plaintiff  had  told  him  of  the  purchase  and  impending  arrival 
of  his  four  elephants,  though  he  said  that  the  tusker  from 
Mannar  was  not  among  them.  This  evidence,  in  so  far  as  it 
is  adverse  to  the  plaintiff's  case,  the  District  Judge,  of 
course,  does  not  accept,  and  he  approaches  the  consideration 
of  the  evidence  from  the  standpoint  that  a  conspiracy 
between  the  2nd  defendant  and  his  brother  to  defraud  the 
plaintiff  had  been  established. 

The  ground  on  which  this  theory  is  based  is,  in  my 
opinion,  wholly  insufficient  to  support  it.  Even  if  the  2nd 
defendant  had  received  information  about  the  tusker  from 
his  brother  and  had  wrongly  and  foolishly  suppressed  the 
fact,  it  would  by  no  means  follow  that  the  information  was 
false.  But  the  learned  District  Judge  has  omitted  to  take 
account  of  considerations,  the  mere  statement  of  which  will 
show  that  his  sweeping  condemnation  of  the  2nd  defendant 
is  unsafe.  I  will  not  dwell  on  the  fact  that  the  evidence  of 
the  2nd  defendant,  in  regard  to  the  sources  of  his  inform- 
ation as  to  the  tusker,  was  obviously  elicited  by  a  cross- 
examination  which  in  violation  of  the  salutary  provisions — 
too  little  enforced  in  our  Courts — of  §.  143  (1)  of  the 
Evidence  Ordinance,  "put  into  the  mouth  of  the  witness 
the  very  words  "  which  he  is  to  echo  back."  But  apart 
from  that,  the  2nd  defendant  was  speaking  in  September 
1912  as  to  events  that  happened  in  April  1911.  His  recol- 
lections may  well  have  been  imperfect  in  regard  to  such 
details  as  the  dates  at  which,   and  the  persons  from  whom, 


his  information  was  derived,  and  there  is  evidence  in  the 
record  pointing  to  the  conslusion  that  it  was  so.  The  1st 
defendant,  Mr.  Tyrrell,  says  :— 

"  S  >metime  in  April  the  Kate  Mahatmaya  (2nd  de- 
"  fendant)  "informed  me  that  a  tusker  had  been  oap- 
"  tured  in  the  Mannar  District,  and  was  going  to  be 
"brought  to  our  district.  I  told  him  to  keep  a  look 
"  out,  His  report  was  verbal.  He  was  one  of  my 
"  subordinate  officers." 

It  is  clear  from  the  passage,  and  from  the  passages 
immediately  following,  that  the  witness  was  speaking  of  a 
verbal  report  prior  to  28th  April.  The  2nd  defendant,  who 
heard  this  evidence  given,  did  not  in  examination  in  chief 
bring  his  own  evidence  into  line  with  it,  but  when  he  was 
cross-examined  on  the  subject  he  said  : — 

"  I  heard  Mr.  Tyrrell  give  his  evidence.  I  will  not 
"deny  its  accuracy.  If  he  stated  that  some  time  in 
"  April  I  told  him  verbally  that  a  tusker  captured  in 
"  Mannar  was  likely  to  be  brought  to  Matale,  it  must 
'•be  true.  I  gave  him  that  information  on  the  footing 
"  that  the  animal  was   captured  without    a  license." 

That  the  District  Judge  infers  that  the  1st  defendant 
must  have  received  this  information  between  the  25th  and 
28th  April  and  treats  the  1st  defendant's  evidence  on  the 
point  as  flatly  contradicting  and  as  further  discrediting  that 
of  the  2nd.  But  the  1st  defendant  was  not  asked  any 
question  as  to  the  date  of  the  verbal  communication,  and 
the  District  Judge  has  failed  to  take  account  of  the  original 
omission  by  the  2nd  defendant  to  make  his  own  evidence 
on  the  matter  ag/ee  with  that  of  the  1st  defendant's 
evidence  as  circumstances  indicative  of  good  faith.  But 
there  is  more.  There  is  a  large  body  of  evidence  in  the 
case  tending  to  show  that  the  elephant  was  a  tusker,  that 
its  tusks  had  recently  been  sawn  ofE,  and  that  the  plaintiflE 
was  possessing  it  under  a  permit  applicable  to  an  elephant 
which  was  not  a  tusker  alone.  This  evidence  by  itself 
should  have  sufficed  to  stay  the  District  Judge's  hand. 
Taken  in  conjunction  with  the  other    circumstances   in  the 


case,  it  renders  his  judgment  against  the  good  faith  of  the 
2nd  defendant  incapable,  in  my  opinion,  of  being  sup- 
ported. 

When  the  theory  of  conspiracy  between  the  two   Rnte 
Mahatmayas  has  been,  as  it  must  be,  eliminated,   the  case  at 
once  loses  the  lurid  aspect  in  which    the  judgment  under 
appeal  presents  itself  to  us,  and  becomes  tolerably   simple  as 
regards  both  the  facts  and  the  law.     The  plaintiff  was  found 
in  possession  of  an   elephant  which  the   defendants  had  at 
least  every  reason  to  regard  as  a  tusker.     Its  tusks   appeared 
to  have  been   recently   sawn  off.     Whether  the  2nd  defen- 
dant's explanation  of  the  polished  ends  of  the   tusks   actual- 
ly  produced    in  Court  is  correct   or  no^,    there   can  be  no 
reason   for  rejecting   Mr.   Dunuwile's   evidence    as  to   the 
actual   condition  of  the  tusks    examined  by  him.     The   per- 
mit  which   the   plaintiff  held   did    not   apply  to  a   tusker. 
There  was,  therefore,  prima  Jade  ground  for  suspecting  the 
commission  by   the   plaintiff   or  his   vendor  or  both  of   an 
offence  against  the  provisions  of  Ordinance  No.   1  of   1909. 
The  1st  defendant  was  a  Police  Officer   within  the   meaning 
of  Ordinance  No  16  of  1865,  and  he  had  the  right  under  the 
general    powers  conferred  on  the  Police  by   §.  51,  if  not 
also  under  the  special  powers  created  by  §.  59,  of  that  enact- 
ment to  seize  the   suspected  elephant  and  detain  it  for  the 
purposes  of   criminal    proceedings.     The   fact    that  the  1st 
defendant  described  himself,  and  was  described    by  the  2nd 
and  by  Mr.  Dunuwile  in  the  communications   which  passed 
between  them,  as  "  Assistant  Government  Agent  "  does   not 
show  that  he  was  not  acting  as  a   Police   Officer   or   deprive 
him  of  his  rights  under  Ordinance   16  of   1865   cf .  {Perera 
V  Hansard  ' .     Apart  from    its  failure  on   the  merits,   the 
case  against  him  would,   therefore,  fail   on  the  law.    The 
elephant  was  seized  on   30th  April,  1911.     The   plaint  was 
filed  on  22nd  February,  1912,     The  action  is  thus  barred  by 
reason  of  its  not  having  been  brought,  as  §.  79  of  Ordinance 
16  of  1865  requires,  within  three  months  from    the  date  of 
1.     {1889)  8  S.  G.  a 


the  act  of  which  the  plaintiff  complains.  The  2nd  defen- 
dant is  not  a  Police  Officer  under  Ordinance  16  of  1865, 
but  he  acted  under  the  lawful  orders  of  his  superior  officer, 
the  1st  defendant,  and  both  of  them  are  protected  by  §.  419 
of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code.  The  respondent's  counsel 
did  not  contend,  as  the  learned  District  Judge  seems  to  have 
assumed,  'that,  in  order  to  comply  with  that  section,  the 
property  seized  must  be  produced  before  the  Police  Magis- 
trate to  whom  the  seizure  is  reported.  But  he  argued  thai 
in  the  present  case  the  seizure  had  not  been  "  forthwith 
reported,"  as  §.  419  requires,  to  the  Police  Magistrate,  that 
the  Police  Magistrate  had  made  no  "  order "  under  that 
section  as  to  the  custody  of  the  elephant,  and  that  the 
animal  had  been  detained,  till  it  died,  by  the  2nd  de- 
fendant under  the  sole  and  illegal   authority  of    the  first. 

Section  419  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  does  not 
say  what  the  report  to  which  it  refers  shall  be  in  writing 
or  even  that  it  must  be  necessarily  be  made  by  the  Police 
Officer  eflEecting  the  seizure.  The  object  of  the  section  is  to 
provide  for  a  Police  Magistrate  being  brought,  with  the 
least  possible  delay,  into  official  touch  with  property  seized 
by  the  Police.  In  the  present  case,  the  elephant  was,  on  the 
orders  of  the  1st  defendant,  produced  before  him  at  the 
Kachcheri  by  the  2nd.  On  1st  May — the  day  after  seizure, 
Mr.  Dunuwile,  the  Police  Magistrate,  was  asked  to  examine, 
and  did  examine  it  on  the  same  day.  On  2nd  May, 
criminal  proceedings  were  instituted,  and  the  Police  Magis- 
trate, to  whom  the  plaintiff  had  presented  a  petition  claim- 
ing the  elephant,  made  the  following  order  : — 

"  A  case  has  already  been  instituted  against  the  man 
"  who  captured  the  animal  and  another.  The  peti- 
"  tioner  being  the  purchaser,  I  think  he  should  be 
"  allowed  to  keep  the  animal  on  giving  security  in 
"Rs.  4000/-  The  animal  is  young  and  recently  oap- 
"  tured  and  should  be  looked  after  carefully.  Before 
II I  make -a  final  order,  send  this  to  the  Assistant 
"  Government  Agent,  who  appears  to  have  made  an 
"inquiry  into  this  matter." 


!) 

The  Ist  defendant  replied  in  these  terms  : — 
'•  I  have  ordered  the  Rate  Mahatmaya  to  take  charge 
"  of  the  animal.  The  Paindakaraya  endeavoured 
"  to  conceal  the  fact  that  this  was  a  tusker.  His 
"  conduct  demands  inquiry  and  he  should  not  be 
"  entrusted  with  the  elephant.  The  R.  ffl.  can  be 
'•  trusted  to  care  of  it. " 

Mr.  Dunuwile  then  made  the  following  memoran- 
dum : 

"  In  my  opinion  the  purchaser  should  be  entrusted 
■'  with  the  elephant.  But  as  the  Assistmt  Govern- 
■■  ment  Agent  has  entrusted  the  animal  to  the  R.  M., 
■'  I  make  no  order." 

In  his  evidence  in  the  District  Court  Mr.  Dunuwile 
Stated  that  the  seizure  of  the  elephant  had  not  been 
"  reported  "  to  him,  and  that  he  had  made  no  order  as  to  its 
custody  under  §.419  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code,  and 
the  respondent's  counsel  argued  that,  from  2nd  May 
onwards,  it  had  been  detained  by  the  2nd  defendant  on  the 
illegal  "  order  "  of  the  1st  defendant  alone.  But  Mr  Dunu- 
wile's  interpretation  of  the  entries  set  out  above  is  refuted 
by  the  entries  themselves.  It  is  perfectly  clear  from  his 
first  meirorandum  on  the  plaintiff's  petition  that  Mr  Dunu- 
wile regarded  himself  as  being  then  in  a  position  to  make 
a  "  final  order  "  under  §.  419.  His  reference  to  the  physical 
condition  of  the  animal  shows  that  it  had  been  produced 
before  him.  He  merely  asked  the  1st  defendant  for,  and, 
in  spite  of  the  use  of  the  word  "ordered"  in  his  reply,  the 
1st  defendant  merely  gave,  an  expression  of  his  opinion  as  to 
What  should  be  done,  and  Mr.  Dunuwile's  last  memorandum 
was  in  fact  an  "  order  "  that  the  elephant  should  remain 
where  it  was  viz.  in  the  custody  of  the  2nd  defendants 
The  defendants  were  not  responsible  for  the  delays  that 
occurred  in  connection  with  the  criminal  proceedings.  The 
District  Judge,  if  he  had  not  unfortunately  been  under  the 
influence  of  the  idea  of  a  baneful  conspiracy  between  the 
Rate  Mahatmayas  against  the  plaintiff,  with  Mr  Tyrrell .  as 
their  tool,  would  never,  I  am  sure,  have  made  the  wholly 
unwarranted  statement  or  suggestion,  that  the  animal  had 
died  from  neglect  or  starvation,  or  have  treated  the  evidence 

a)  (^issti)  s  ,s',  r.  c. 


10 

as  to  the  open  condition  of  its  mouth  as  indicating  merely 
an  unsatisfied  desire  for  food. 

In  my  opinion,  the  judgment  under  appeal  cannot 
stand.  It  is  unnecessary  in  the  view  that  I  take  of  this 
case  to  express  any  opinion  on  the  question  whether, 
under  Ordinance  No.  of  1909,  prior  to  its  amendment  by 
Ordinance  No.  13  of  1912,  the  possession  of  a  "  tusker  " 
captured  without  a  license  Avould  be  illegal.  I  would  set 
aside  the  judgment  and  decree  of  the  District  Court  and 
would  direct  that  decree  should  be  entered  dismissing  the 
plaintiff's  action,  with  the  costs  of  the  action  and  of  the 
appeal. 

Ennis,  J. 

This  is  an  appeal  from  a  decree  of  the  District  Court 
of  Kandy  awarding  Rs.  3000  damages  to  the  plaintiff- 
respondent  for  the  wrongful  seizure  and  detention  of  an 
elephant  by  the  two  defendant-appellants. 

The  1st  defendant  was  Assistant  Government  Agent. 
Central  Province  and  an  Additional  Superintendent  of 
Police,  the  2nd  defendant  is  the  Rate  Mahatmeya  of  Matale 
South. 

The  defendants  admitted  the  seizure  and  detention  of 
the  elephant  but  denied  that  it  belonged  to  the  plaintiff, 
They  further  stated  that  they  were  justified  in  taking  it 
out  of  the  possession  of  the  plaintiff  as  it  was  a  tusker 
cap.tured  in  contravention  of  the  Game  Ordinance,    1909, 

The  District  Judge  has  taken  the  view  that  the  2nd 
defendant  was  actuated  by  malice,  jealousy  and  vengeance 
against  the  plaintiff  and  this  view  has  tinged  the  whole  of 
his  judgment.  This  view  is  based  on  a  suggestion  made 
by  the  plaintiff  and  the  learned  District  Judge  has  at  con- 
siderable length,  detailed  the  grounds  upon  which  he  finds 
the  suggestion  supported.  It  is  not  in  my  opinion  necessary 
to  go  into  them  for  if  the  seizure  and  detention  were  lawful 
and  proper  the  motive  does  not  affect  the  case,  but  in  justice 
to  the  2nd  defendant  I  think  it  right  to  say  that  I  am  not  in 
accord  with  the  findings  of  fact  or  the  deductions  made  by 
the  District  Judge  in  support,  of  this  view. 

The    amount  of  claim  has  been  fixed  and  the    damages 


11 

have  been  assessed  as  if  the  elephant  were  a  "  tusker  "  and 
Mr.  DunvTwile  in  his  order  of  the  2nd  May  on  the  'plaintiff's 
petition  of  that  date  states  that  the  animal "  is  young 
and  recently  captured  ",  The  permit  under  which  it  was 
removed  from  Mannar  was  not  a  permit  for  a  tusker.  There 
was  therefore  reasonable  ground  for  a  belief  thttt  an  offence 
against  the  Game  Laws  had  been  committed  in  respect  of  the 
elephant,  and,  under  section  59  of  the  Police '  Ordinance  its 
seizure  by  the  Police  would  be  lawful. 

The  1st  defendant  was  a  Police  Officer,  and  for  Police 
purposes,  a  Police  Officer  is  considered  to  be  always  on  duty 
(Section  51  of  No.  16  of  1865).  In  performance  of  this  duty 
in  a  case  such  as  this  when  the  act  cannot  be  referred  to 
anything  but  this  duty  a  Police  Officer  cannot  in  my  opinion 
be  regarded  as  divesting  himself  of  his  character  as  a  Police 
Officer  by  signing  in  some  other   capacity. 

The  elephant  was  therefore  lawfully  seized  and  the  fact 
was  brought  to  the  notice  of  the  Magistrate,  Mr.  Dunuwile, 
as  the  minutes  on  the  plaintiff's  petition  show.  In  my 
opinion  this  was  a  sufficient  compliance  with  section  419 
of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  which  requires  that  a  report 
of  a  seizure  shall  be  made  to  a  Police  Magistrate.  The 
Magistrate's  written  refusal  to  interfere  with  the  custody  of 
the  elephant  as  arranged  for  by  the  1st  defendant  was  an 
acquiescence  in  that  arrangement  and  virtually  an  "  order  " 
for  the  custody  of  the  property  seized. 

The  plaintiff's  suggestion  that  the  elephant  w?s  killed 
by  starvation  and  neglect  is  entirely  refuted  by  the  evidence 
for  the  defence  detailing  the  care  and  treatment  it  received 
and  the  periodical  visits  of  inspection  made  by   Mr.  Tyrell, 

I  would  allow  the  appeal  with  costs. 
Proctor  for  appellant — Nigel.  I.  Lee. 

Proctors  for  respondent — Oonneivardena  &  Wijegoone- 
wardane. 


12 
THE  A.  G.  A.  PUTTALAM  r  C.  E.    COREA. 
Nos.  4731  &  4732  D.  C.  Chilaw. 
Present ;  Wood-Renton  A.  C.  J,  &  de  Sampayo  J. 

23rd  September    1913.  ; 

Land  ueipiisltion— award  ,<f  Bixfncf  Judge— assi^snorn  not  concurring 
—need  not  he  signed  by  assessors— District  Judge  inspecting  the  land  after 
assessors  delh-ered  judgment  ii-regidai — assessors  essential  part  of  the 
tribunal  in  land  acquisition-Ordinances  Xo,  I)  of  1816  and  Xo.  9  ufl90S. 

When  the  assessors  in  a  land  aoguisition  case  do  not  concur  in  the 
award  of  the  District  Judere  the  award  need  not  be  signed  by  the 
assessors. 

Where  after  the  assessors  had  delivered  their  opinion  the  District 
Judge  reserved  judj^ment  and  thereupon  after  inspecting  the  land  mads 
his  award 

Held,  that  the  proceedings  were  irregular    and  the  award   was  bad. 

De  Sunqiayo  ./.  The  tribunal  constituted  by  the  Land  Acquisition 
Ordinance  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  conpensation  for 
the  land  acquired  consists  of  the  Judge  as  well  aa  the  assessors.  The 
association  of  assessors  with  the  Judge  is,  under  the  provision  of  the 
Ordinance,  compulsory  and  thus  the  position  of  assessors  in  a  land 
acquisition  case  is  essentially  different  from  that  of  assessors  whom '  it  is 
optional  with  the  District  Judge  under  section  72  of  the  Courts  Ordinance 
to  appoint,  for  the  purpose  of  assisting  him  in  any  case  or  proceeding- 
But  even  in  the  case  of  ordinary  assessors  it  would  not  be  right  for  the 
Judge  to  conduct  any  part  of  the  cause  of  proceeding  apart  from,  and 
independently  of,  the  assessors.  To  do  so  is  still  more  irregular  in  the 
case  of  assessors  under  the  land  Acquisition  Ordinance,  which  has  in  view 
the  object  of  securing  the  assistance  of  two  additional  Judges  with  the 
qualifications  of  experts  in  the  special  subject  of  market  value  of 
land. 

E.  W.  Jayau'cirdnne  with  J.  S.  Jayaivardene  for 
appellants. 

Garvin  A.  S.  G.  for  respondents. 

c.  a.  V. 
Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J. 

Two  distinct  cases  are  embraced  in  the  present 
appeal,  D  C.  Chilaw,  4731  and  D.  C.  Chilaw  4732.  They 
were  consolidated  at  the  trial,  under  section  20  of 
Ordinance  3  of  187(j.  The  question  in  dispute  is  as  to 
the  amount  ot  compensation  that  should  be  paid  by  the 
Crown  for  the  compulsory  acquisition  of  two  portions 
of  land,  lot  5G7  incase  4731,  and  lot  574  in  case  4732, 


Two  assessors  were  appointed  before  the  trial,  Mr.  Beven 
on  behalf  of  the  appellants,  and  Mr.  Gould  on  behalf  of 
the  plaintiff,  the  respondent,  the  Assistant  Government 
Agent  of  Puttalam  and  Chilaw.  Evidence  was  adduced 
on  both  sides,  and  at  the  close  of  the  trial  the  assessors 
each  expressed  his  opinion  which  was  duly  recorded 
and  signed  by  the  District  Judge.  The  plaintiff  had 
offered  Rs.  250/-  for  lot  .567.  and  Rs.  120/-  for  lot  574.  The 
assessor  appointed  by  the  plaintiff  stated  that  he  con- 
sidered the  compensation  ample.  The  appellants'  asses- 
sor, on  the  other  hand,  would  have  awarded  a  larger 
total  amount.  The  learned  District  Judge  thereupon 
reserved  his  judgment.  Before  delivering  judgment 
he  inspected  the  land  himself,  and  it  is  common  ground 
that  this  inspection  was  carried  out  without  notice  to 
either  the  appellants  or  the  assessors,  and  in  the 
absence  of  them  both.  In  the  event,  the  District  Judge 
gave  an  award  differing  from  the  amount  suggested  by 
each  of  the  two  assessors,  namely,  Rs.  391/-  in  case 
No.  4731,  and  Rs.  120/- in  case  No.  4732.  In  the  former 
case  he  required  the  plaintiff  to  pay  the  costs  of  the 
appellants,  in  the  latter  case  the  costs  were  divided. 
Several  points  have  been  argued  in  support  of  the 
present  appeal.  In  the  first  place,  it  is  contended  that  the 
award  is  bad  because  it  has  not  been  signed  by  the 
assessors  as  required  by  section  29  of  Ordinance  9  of 
1876,  as  re-enacted  by  section  2  of  Ordinance  9  of 
1908.  This  contention,  in  my  opinion,  is  bad.  It  is  only 
where  'the  assessors  concur  in  the  view  of  the  Judge 
that  they  are  required  to  sign  the  award.  Here  neither 
of  the  assessors  was  in  accordance  with  the  view  of  the 
Judge  as  to  the  total  amount  that  ought  to  be  awarded, 
aixd,  therefore,  the  requirement  as  to  the  signature  of 
the  award  by  the  assessors  does  not  apply.  The  second 
contention,  however,  is  a  more  serious  one,  and  I  think 
that  it  is  entitled  to  prevail.  It  is  urged  that  the  learned 
District  Judge  was  not  entitled  to  inspect  the  land 
without  notice  even  to  the  parties,  and  still  less  so 
without  notice  to  the  assessors.  There  is  nothing  on  the 
face  of  the  record  to  justify  the   suggestion,   which  is 


14 

faintly  put  forward  in  the  petition  of  appeal,  that,  the 
District  Judge  made  a  mistake  as  to  the  identity  of  the 
land  either  through  his  own  ignorance  of  the  locality, 
or  through  having  been  misinformed  as  to  its  where- 
abouts by  third  parties.  Still  less  is  there  anything  to 
show  that  his  view  was  in  any  way  influenced  "  by 
persons  interested  in  upholding  the  respondent's  valu- 
ation. "  But  the  inspection  of  the  land,  for  all  that,  was 
made  for  a  serious  purpose.  The  District  Judge  has 
himself  stated  that  his  object  was  to  satisfy  his  mind  on 
certain  points  as  to  which  the  evidence  led  by  either 
side  was  "'  extraordinarily  contradictory,  such  as  the 
value  of  the  soil  and  the  plantations  of  the  lots  acquired, 
and  the  relative  value  of  the  neighbouring  lands  and 
plantations.  "  These  are  obvious  matters  bearing 
directly  on  the  question  of  the  amount  of  compensation 
to  be  awarded,  and  the  judgment  itself  shows  that  the 
District  Judge  had  tested  the  accuracy  of  the  viva  vocfi 
evidence  given  before  him  by  his  personal  observations 
on  the  land,  and  his  own  opinion  as  to  its  character  and 
quality.  In  doing  this,  he  was,  in  my  opinion,  dissoci- 
ating himself  from  the  two  assessors  who,  by  operation 
of  law,  were  an  essential  part  of  his  Court  for  the 
purpose  of  the  determination  of  the  amount  of  com- 
pensation due,  and  was  depriving  himself  of  the 
assistance,  which  the  law  intended  that  he  should  have 
throughout  the  whole  inquiry  up  to  and  including  the 
delivery  of  the  award,  of  the  experts  for  whose  appoint- 
ment as  assessors  it  has  provided.  It  is  always 
dangerous  I  think,  whatever  may  be  the  inherent  rights 
of  Courts  of  first  instance,  for  a  Judge  to  conduct  an 
inspection  of  the  land  without  notice  to  the  parties 
although  there  are  many  cases  in  which  he  may  be  well 
within  his  rights  in  doing  so.  But  I  am  clearly  of 
opinion  that  the  parties  to  actions  like  the  present  under 
Ordinance  3  of  187(5  have  the  right  to  require  that  the 
Judge  shall  have  the  assistance,  to  the  last,  of  the 
assessors  appointed  under  the  Ordinance.  My  Brother 
de  Sampayo  put  to  the  learned  Solicitor-General  in  the 
course  of  the   argument   an  illustration  which,   to  mv 


lo 

mind,  is  conclusive  of  the  question.  Suppose  that  the 
assessors  have  expressed  and  recorded  their  opinion,  and 
that  the  Judge  has  reserved  judgment.  After  reserving 
judgment,  he  finds  on  perusixig  his  notes  of  the  evidence 
that  material  witnesses  have  not  been  examined  upon 
important  points.  Can  it  be  suggested  that  merely 
because  the  opinions  of  the  assessors  have  been  recorded 
and^igned  the  Judge  would  be  entitled  to  reconstitute 
the  Court,  to  hear  additional  evidence  himself,  and  then  • 
to  pronounce  his  own  independent  award?  On  the 
grounds  that  I  have  stated,  I  think  that  the  procedure 
adopted  by  the  learned  District  Judge  in  this  case  was 
wrong  in  principal,  and  that  it  should  not  be  counte- 
nanced. Even  although  the  amount  in  dispute  between 
the  parties  is  not  large,  the  results  of  sanctioning  any 
laxity  of  practice  in  a  matter  of  this  kind  would  be 
greatly  inconvenient.  1  would  set  aside  the  decree 
under  appeal,  and  send  these  cases  back  for  further 
inquiry  and  adjudication,  which  both  sides  agree,  in 
order  to  save  expense,  should  take  place  before  the  same 
Judge  and  the  same  assessors.  If  an  inspection  of  the 
locus  is  held  to  be  necessary,  it  must  take  place  with 
notice  both  to  the  parties  and  to  the  assessors.  The 
appellants  are  entitled  to  the  costs  of  the  appeal.  All 
other  costs  should  be  costs  in  the  cause. 

De  Sampayo,  J.  I  am  of  the  same  opinion.  The 
tribunal  constituted  by  the  Land  Acquisition  Ordinance 
for  the  purpose  of  determining  the  amount  of  compensa- 
tion for  the  land  acquired  consists  of  the  Judge  as  well 
as  the  assessors.  The  association  of  assessors  with  the 
Judge  is,  under  the  provisions  of  the  Ordinance, 
compulsory,  and  thus  the  position  of  assessors  in  a  land 
acquisition  case  is  essentially  different  from  that  of 
assessors  whom  it  is  optional  with  a  District  Judge  under 
section  72  of  the  Courts  Ordinance  to  appoint,  for  the 
purpose  of  assisting  him  in  any  cause  or  proceeding. 
But  even  in  the  case  of  ordinary  assessors  it  would  not 
be  right  for  the  judge  to  conduct  any  part  of  the  cause  or 
proceeding  apart  from,  and  independently  of,  the  assessors. 
To  do  so  is  still  more  irregular  in  the  ease  of  assessors  under  the 


16 

Land  Acquisition  Ordinance,  which  has  in  view  the  object  of 
securing  the  assistance   of  two   additional  judges  with   the 
qualification  of    experts    in    the  special    subject  of   market 
Talue    of  land.     The  Solicitor-General  pointed    to   the   Sec" 
tions  of  the  Ordinance  relating    to  the  making   and   signing 
of  the  award  and  argued  that  it  is   the  Judge  who  gives  the 
award    and  that    the  assessors' only    express  their   opinions 
which  the  Judge  may  or  may  not  follow.     This  is  not  quit-e 
so.     Section  17  enacts  that  "  the  District  Judge  and.  assessors 
shall  proceed  to  determine   the  amount    of   compensation,  " 
and  the  award  is  to  be  made  not  by    the  Judge  but  by  "  the 
Court ",  which   as  I  have   said   is  constituted  by  the   Judge 
and  assessors.     See  the-  repealed  §.  30   and  the   substituted 
§.  29  of  the  Ordinance  No.  3  of  1876.      It  is  true  that  if  the 
Judge  differs  from  both  the  assessors  his   opinion   prevails 
and  he  alone  signs  the  award,  but  this    makes  no    difference 
in  the  consideration  of  the  question  as  to  the  constitution  of 
the  Court  which  has  to  make  the  award.     In  this  connection 
I  may  note  the  construction  sought  by  the   Solicitor-General 
to  be  put  on  the  existing  provision  as   to  the   signing  of  the 
award,      The  principal  Ordinance  No.  3  of   1876  s.  30   pro- 
vided   that  "    every   award   made  by  the  Court  shall  be   in 
writing,  signed    by   the     District   Judge   and   assessors   or 
assessor  concurring  therein  ",  while  s.  29   substituted   for  it 
by  the  amending    Ordinance   No.    9  of    1908   provides  that 
the  award   shall   be   signed  by    "  the   District   Judge   and 
assessors    concurring   therein  ".     It     was   argued   that   the 
amending  Ordinance    intended    that  the    award  should   be 
signed  by  the  assessors  only  if  both  of  them  concur   and  not 
by  one  assessor  even  if  that  one  concurs,  and  this    argument 
was   used     to  emphasize     the     point     maintained   by   the 
Solicitor-General  that  the  assessors  in  this    case,  as   soon   as 
their   opinions   were   recorded,   dropped   out   and  that  the 
Judge,  having    alone    to  make  his  award,  acted   within   his 
rights  in  inspecting  the  land  without    notice  to   and   in   the 
absence  of  the     assessors.     In   my  opinion    the   intention 
attributed  to  the  amending   Ordinance  has  no  real  existence. 
I  think  the  use  of  the  word  "  assessors  "    without  the   addi- 
tion of  the  words  "  or  assessor  "  is  due  to  the  enactment  in 
the  interval,  of   the   Iilterpretation   Ordinance   1901    which 


17 

provided  that  "  words  in  the  singular  number  shall   include  x.    6.    A 
the  plural,  and  v  ee  versa.  "  Puttalam 

V. 

It  was  next  contended  that  the    inspection  of  the   land  ^-  ^-  Corea 
had  not  the  effect  of  furnishing  fresh  material  for  the   con-  de  Sampayo 
feideration  of  the  matter  of  compensation  but  was  only  inten-  ' 

ded  as  a  test  of  the  evidence  already  recorded  in  the 
presence  of  the  assessors.  The  inspection  was  conducted, 
as  the  District  Judge  stated  it,  for  the  purpose  of  satisfying 
himself  "  on  certain  points  about  which  the  evidence  led  by 
the  either  side  was  extraordinarily  contradictory,  such  as  the 
value  of  the  soil  and  the  plantation  of  the  lots  acquired  and 
the  relative  value  of  the  neighbouring  lands  and  plantations.'' 
The  very  words  of  the  judgment  which  I  have  quoted 
show  that  the  inspection  furnished,  and  was  intended  to 
furnish,  a  fresh  source  of  evidence  on  the  matter  which  the 
Judge  and  assesssors  had  to  investigate  and  determine.  It 
was  in  fact  a  "  local  investigation  "  within  the  meaning  of 
s.  428  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  which  provides  for  a 
Commissioner  being  appointed  for  such  local  investigation 
when  the  same  cannot  be  conveniently  conducted  by  the 
judge  in  p^rson.  ,  The  report  of  the  Commissioner  with  the 
evidence,  if  any,  taken  by  him,  will  of  course  in  such  a  case 
be  evidence  in  the  cause,  and  I  cannot  see  how  the  result  of  the. 
invesiigation  when  conducted  by  the  Judge  himself  can  be 
regarded  as  Other  than  evidence  in  the  sense  that  it  is 
material  influencing  his  judgment.  The  fact  that  in  that 
particular  case  the  inspection  is  stated  to  have  resulted  in 
certain  respects  more  favourably  to  the  appellants  than 
otherwise  cannot  affect  the  question  of  principle  and  I  think 
there  should  be  a  further  inquiry  and  fresh  adjudication  in 
due  course. 

Sat  aside  and  sent  back. 


Proctor  for  appellant — James  Corea. 
Probtor  for  respondent — N.  J.  Martin. 
Vol.  IV. 


18 
WICKREMESINGHE   vs    WICKREMESINGHE. 
No.  5716  D.  C.  Galle. 
Present :    Pereira  and  Eiinis  J.  J. 

26th  February  1914. 

Sj,eeifieperMm.nce-action  ly  A  against  B  and  C  to  set  «n^«  .<-«- 
r^yanee  of  land  by  B  m/a.our  of  A-,n.ujoinder  of  defendants-%^  U,  18 
and  34  Ciril  Procedure  Code. 

Where  A  sued  B  and  C  in  an  action  of  specific  performance  for  a 
oancell  tion  of  a  conveyance  by  B  in  favour  of  C  and  for  Irans'er  by  B 
in  favour  of  A. 

Held,  that  the  -action  for  specific  performance  is  maintainable 
where  the  transfer  from  B  to  0  is  fraudulent  and  collusive  and  that 
B  and  C  were  rightlyjoined    as  defendants, 

This  is  an  action  for  specific  performance.  One  Don 
Bastian  deceased,  entered  into  an  agreement  with  the  plain- 
tifE  to  convey  a  certain  land  to  the  latter.  1st  defendant  is 
the  administrator  of  Don  Bastian.  The  3rd  and  4  th  defen- 
dants who  are  the  heirs  cf  Don  Bastian  conveyed  the  land 
in  question  to  the  2nd  defendant  after  the  death  of  Don 
Bastian.  Plaintiff  brought  the  action  against  the  defendants 
for  the  cancellation  of  the  conveyance  by  the  3rd  and  4th 
defendants  in  favour  of  the  3rd  defendant  and  for  a  con- 
veyance by  the  1st  defendant  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff.  The 
learned  District  judge  gave  judgment  for  the  plaintiff  and 
the  defendants  appealed. 

A.  St.,  V-  Jaydwardene  for  appellants  : — An  action  for 
specific  performance  cannot  be  maintained  in  this  case.  It 
is  beyond  the  power  of  the  1st  defendant  to  transfer  the 
land  to  the  plaititiff.  The  land  has  been  already  trans- 
ferred to  the  2nd  defendant.  Marthelis  vs.Raymond  ^  ; 
Appuhamy  vs  Boteju ". 

Further  the  transferor  to  the  2nd  defendant  is  not  the 
1st  defendant,  but  the  3rd  and  4th  defendanants  who  are  the 
heirs  of  Don  Bastian.  There  has  been  a  misjoinder  of  de- 
fendants.   The  plaintiff  has  no  cause   of  action    against  the 

1     {1896)  2N.L.R,  210         2     (.1908)  11  N.L.  R.i87 
Vol.  IV. 


19 

3rd  and  4th  defendants  and  his  cause  of  action  against  1st 
defendant  is  dififerent  from  the  cause  of  action  against  the 
2hd  defendant  Luckumey  v  Ookuda  ^  DeHoghton  v  Money  ^; 
Tasker  v  Small '. 

Any  cause  of  action  that  the  plaintifE  had  against  Don 
Bastian  terminated  with  Don  Bastians's  death.  He  did  not 
covenant  for  his  assigns. 

Bawa  K.  C.  for  respondent. — An  action  for  specific 
performance  can  be  maintained  in  this  case.  Under  the  Ro- 
man Dutch  Law  fraud  vitiates  a  contract.  Here  the  con- 
veyance by  the  3rd  and  4th  defendants  in  favour  of  the 
2nd  defendant  is  fraudulent  and  collusive  and  therefore  the 
plaintiff  can  bring  an  action  to  hav«  that  conveyance  set 
aside  and  for  a  conveyance  by  the  1st  defendant  in  his 
favour.  Don  Carolis  Alwis  v  Mohammado  *;  Carim- 
jee  Jafferjee  v  Theodoris  ''',  Amarawira  v  Mohamado 
Alt  * ;  Smiths  Leading  cases  121  ;  Story  on 
Equity  Fo/  i.§  784.  The  defendants  are  rightly  joined. 
See  §§  14, 18,  34  of  the  Code.  We  cannot  sue  the  Ist  de- 
fendant for  specific  performance  as  long  as  the  conveyance 
in  favour  of  the  2nd  defendant  remained  uncancelled. 
That  conveyance  may  be  fraudulent  but  none  the  less  it  is  a 
valid  conveyance.  Therefore  that  conveyance  must  be 
cancelled  before  we  can  have  any  remedy  from  the  1st  de- 
fendant. Therefore  the  defendants  were  rightly  joined, 
[Pereira  J.  There  is  no  issue  in  this  case  whether  the 
2nd  defendant  was  a  party  to  the  fraud  of  the  3rd  and  4th 
defendants]  But  the  case  has  been  fought  on  the  basis  that 
the  2nd  defendant  took  the  conveyance  with  the  knowledge 
of  the  agreement  between  Don  Bastian  and  the  plaintifif.  The 
learned  District  Judge  has  found  that  the  2nd,  3rd  and  4th 
defendants  were  parties  to  a   collusive  transaction. 

A .  St.  V.  Jayaivardene  in  reply. 

c.  a.  V, 

1     I.  L.  R,5.  Bom  117        3    L.R.2  ch  K.  B.164. 
3     3  My  &  O.  B.  68  4     {1910)  3  S.  G.  D.  85 

5     (1898)  5  B'al  20  6     (1910)  2  Gur  L.B.  124 

Vol.  IV. 


20 

Wiokreme-  Pereira  J. 
singhe  Ti^g  jgt  defendant  in  this  case   is  the  Administrator  of 

Wiokreme-  the  estate  of  one  Don  Bastian,  deceased  and  the  plaintifE  sues 
singhe      j^.^^^  ^^^  ^^^  Specific  performance  of  an  agreement   entered 

Parcira,  J.  into  by  and  between  the  plaintiff  and  Don  Bastian  for  the 
conveyance  by  the  latter  to  the  plaintiff  of  the  land  described, 
in  the  20th  paragraph  of  the-  plaint.  The  plain+iff  has 
joined  the  2nd  3rd  and  4th  defendants  in  the  action  because 
thp  3rd  and  4th  defendants  who  are  the  heirs  of  Don  Bastian 
have  since  the  date  of  the  agreement  referred  to  above  con- 
veyed the  land  which  was  the  subject  of  the  agreement  to 
the  2nd  defendant.  The  plaintiff  claims  in  this  action  a 
cancellation  of  the  conveyance  by  the  3rd  and  4th  defen. 
dants  in  favour  of  the  2nd  defendant  as  a  preliminary  to 
the  1st  defendant  being  condemned  to  execute  a  convevance 
of  the  land  referred  to  above  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff.  It 
has  been  argued  by  the  appellants'  counsel  that  there  has 
been  a  misjoinder  of  defendants  now.  It  has  been  held  by 
this  Court  that  it  is  competent  to  the  heirs  of  an  intestate  to 
convey  property  left  by  the  intestate  although  a  conveyance 
by  the  heirs  might  be  defeated  by  an  Administrator  subse- 
quently appointed  if  he  required  the  property  for  the  purpose 
of  administration  {S-ilva  v  Silva.  10.  N.  L.  R.  234)  there  is 
no  pretence  in  the  present  case  that  the  property  in  question 
is  required  by  the  1st  defendant  for  the  purposes  of  adminis- 
tration. That  being  so  the  present  case  is  similar  to  a  case 
by  A  agaiust  B.  &  C.  claiming  that  a  conveyance  by  B.  in  C's 
favour  be  set  aside  and  that  B  be  condemned  to  execute  a 
conveyance  of  the  property  thus  released  in  favour  of  A  in 
specific  performance  of  an  agreement  between  A.  &  B.  Prior 
to  the  conveyance  of  the  land  by  B  in  favour  of  C.  And  as 
regards  the  objection  as  to  misjoinder  of  parties  it  wilt  be 
less  confusing  to  consider  it  with  reference!to  this  hypothe- 
tical case.  It  is  clear  that  no  conveyance  can  be  executed  by  B 
in  favour  of  A  until  the  conveyance  by  B  in  favour  of  C  is 
cancelled  because  as  this  Court  has  more  than  once  laid  down, 
undeir  our  law,  even  a  fraudulent  conveyance  unlike  one 
Vol.  IV. 


21 

excuted  by  a  person    not  competent  to  contract,  which  o»  WicJijgRs- 
tUat  account  would  be  null  and  void,  is  operative  until  it  ia      ^^e^ 
set  aside  by  an  order  of  Court  and   when  it  is  set  as'de  the  Wipkreme- 
cancellation  refers  back  to  the  date  of  the  conveyance.  singlw 

Now  in  respect  of  the  objection  referred  to  above  three  P«*eH»  ♦■. 
cases  have  been  cited  (1)  Luckumey  v  Ookude  [I.  L.  R.  5 
Bom,  117]  (2)  De  Hoghton  v.  Money  [2  Ch.  Ap.  164]  (3) 
Tusker  v  Small  [3My  &  C.  R.  63]  I  do  not  think  that  any  of 
these  cases  has  any  application  to  the  present  case.  In  the 
present  case  the  real  cause  of  action  is  the  execution  of  the 
cojiyeyance  by  B  in  favour  of  C.  That  conveyance  deprived 
B  o|  the  power  of  conveying  the  land  to  A  and  the  object 
.of  the  action  primarily  is  to  have  that  conveyance  cancelled. 
For.  th?it  purpose  both  B.  &.  C.  are  properly  before  the  Court. 
In  floghto^  v  ^cm,ey  it  was  held  tbat  a  purchaser  could  not 
be|<i>re  completing  his  contract,  enforce  any  equities  attaching 
to  the  property  against  persons  not  parties  to  the  contract. 
Theife  can  be  rp  ^oubt  as  to  that  pfovided  the  situation  is 
sijclf  t,]^a,t  it  i^  possible  for  the  purchaser  to  complete  bis 
contract.  lu  the  present  case  B.  could  not  execute  a  con- 
veyance i(n  favour  of  A.  so  long  as  B's  conveyance  in  favour 
of  C.  remained  uncanceHed  and  therefore  it  wou,ld  have  been 
nugatory  for  A.  to  sue  B.  alone  and  unless  A.  had  title  to 
the  land  from  B.  he  could  not  sue  C.  &  B.  for  a  cancellation 
of  the  conveyance  by  the  latter  in  favour  of  the  former. 
That  is  the  dilemma  in  which  A.  would  be  if  the  case  of 
Hoghton.  v  Money  were  applicable  to  the  present  case  but  it 
will  be  seen  that  the  defendants  who  were  objected  to  in 
that  case  claimed  under  a  mere  agreement  prior  to  the 
agreement  of  which  specific  performance  was  sought.  The  ■ 
latter  asreement  dated  1864  was  one  between  plaintiff  in  that 
case  and  the  defendan.t  C,  for  the  purchase  of  "  the 
"  piece  of  land  in  question  and  Cotton's  entire  interest  therein 
"  without  any  reservation  whatever  except  as  to  a  disputed. 
"  right  claimed  by  the  deft^ndant  Money,  in,  respect  of  a 
"  certain  letter  addressed  to  him  by  Cotton  dated  1862".  The 
contention  was  that  this  letter  conveyed  no  title  and  that  it 
Vol.  IV 


22 

Wickreme-  "waS  null  and  void   and   not  that  it   needed   cancellation,   so 
singhe       tij^t  it  was  quite  open  to  the  defendant  Cotton  to  convey  the 

Wickreme-  land  to  the  plaintiff,  and  for  an  order  for   that   purpose   the 
smghe      presence  of  Money  as  a  defendant  wa?    not  necessary.     In 

Pereir*,  J.  the  Indian  case  cited  the  defendants  who  were  objected  to 
asserted  to  be  entitled  to  merely  a  charge  upon  the  land  in 
respect  of  which  a  conveyance  was  claimed.  As  to  when 
and  how  that  charge  came  into  existence  there  is  no  precise 
information  and  there  is  nothing  to  shew  that  there  was  any 
obstacle  to  the  land  being  conveyed  to  the  plaintiff  by  the 
defendant  against  whom  specific  performance  was  claimed. 
In  Tusker  v  Small  it  was  held  that  mortgages  of  the  pro- 
perty and  persons  who  claimed  an  interest  in  the  equity  of 
redemption  could  not  be  joined  as  defendants  to  an  action 
for  specific  performance.  It  is  clear  that  in  spite  of  such 
interest  there  was  no  objection  to  the  conveyance  of  the 
property  by  the  principal  defendant.  As  explained  above 
the  situation  that  we  are  concerned  with  in  the  present 
case  is  different.  We  are  here  face  to  face  with  the 
Roman  Dutch  law  principle  that  a  fraudulent  deed  is 
operative  until  'it  is  set  aside,  and  so  the  1st  defendant 
could  not  forcibly  be  condemned  to  execute  a  con- 
veyance in  the  plaintiff's  favour  until  the  conveyance  by 
the  3rd  and  4th  defendants  in  favour  of  the  2nd  defen- 
dant was  cancelled.  I  therefore  think  that  the  objection 
to  the  action  on  the  ground  of  mis-joinder  cannot  be 
sustained. 

The  next  question  in  the  case  is  whether  the  plain- 
tiff has  shown  himself  entitled  to  a  cancellation  of  the 
•deed  of  conveyance  executed  by  the  3rd&  4th  defendants 
in  favour  of  the  2nd  defendant  [Deed  No.  784  dated  16th 
July  1910].  From  two  of  the  cases  cited  in  the  course 
of  the  argument.  Marthelis  v  R'lytnond  [2  N.  L.  R  270] 
and  Appuhamtj  v  Boteju  [11  N.  L.  R.  187]  it  would  appear 
that  where  one  conveys  land  to  a  person  which  he  had 
already  agreed  to  convey  to  another,  he  thereby  places 
himself  beyond  the  power  of  specifically  performing  his 
Vol.  IV. 


23 

agreement  with  the  latter.  But  clearly  under  the  Eoman  Wickreme- 
Dutch  law  fraud  vitiates  every  contract  and  if  the  latter  singhe 
ofthe  two  deeds  could  be  shewn  to  be  fraudulent  it  would  Wickreme- 
be  cancelled  and  the  way  paved  for  the  specific  perfor-  s'^^she 
mance  of  the  former.  So  that  the  main  question  in  the  Ennia,  J. 
present  case  is  whether  deed  No.  784  was  executed  in 
fraud  of  the  plaintiff.  No  such  issue  was  expressly 
framed  but  we  are  asked  by  the  plaintiff  counsel  to 
,  infer  fraud  from  the  facts  proved.  He  has  contended 
that  the  attitude  taken  up  by  the  plaintiff  was  that  the 
deed  was  fraudulent  and  that  the  tenth  issue  in  the  case 
is  tantamount  to  an  issue  of  fraud.  I  do  not  think  that 
the  passages  cited  by  him  from  Story  on  Equity  apply  to 
a  case  like  this.  The  issue  framed  in  spite  of  objection 
was  whether  the  2nd  defendant  was  a  bona  fide  purchaser 
for  value  and  the  District  Judge  lias  held  that  the  2nd 
defendant  "'made  a  collusive  purchase  "  but  mere  collusion 
or  lack  of  bona  fides  does  not  necessarily  amount  to  fraud 
A  person  may  take  unfair  advantage  of  a  particular  situation 
and  act  accordingly  but  his  action  may  nevertheless  not  be 
fraudulent.  Whatever  is  dishonourable  is  not  necessarily  dis- 
honest in  the  eye  of  the  law.  I  think  that  the  parties  should 
clearly  understand  the  issue  before  them  and  then  proceed 
to  trial  thereon.  I  would  set  aside  the  judgment  and  direct 
that  the  following  issue  be  framed  and  tried  in  lieu  of  issue 
No.  10.  Did  the  3rd  and  4th  defendantd  and  the  2nd  defen- 
dant act  collusively  and  with  intent  to  defraud  the  plaintiff 
in  the  execution  of  deed  No  784  dated  the  16th  July  1910, 
the  plaint  being  amended  accordingly  \See  Ratwatte  v  Owen 
2  N.  L.  R.  141]  I  think  that  the  District  Judge  should 
deliver  judgment  de  novo  in  accordance  with  his  decision 
on  the  above  issue  and  his  decisions  already  recorded  by  him 
on  issues  1  to  9  except  so  far  as  those  decisions  may  be 
affected  by  his  decision  on  the  new  issue  framed. 
I  think  that  all  costs  should  abide  the  event. 
Ennis  J.   I  agree. 

Proctor  for  appellant-^Edward  Buultjens 
Proctor  for  respondent — D.  A.  A    Wickremesinghe 
Vol.  IV. 


24 

SEKUMARIKAR  vs.  CAROLIS. 
No.  11419  D.  C.  Galle 
Present  :    Pereira  and  Ennis  J-  J. 

3rd  July  1913. 
Pvomiswr,!  note-act wn  li/  e,idorsee  against  maker  a,id payee-  can 
maker  sefvp  defence  that  note  was  given    as  security-%93  Eridenee 
0,-dinance-wken  is  a  promissory  note  payable  on  demand   overdue.- 
In  an  action  by  the  endorsee    of  a    promissory   note  against  the 
maker  and  the  payee  it  is  open   to  the  maier  to  set  up  the  defence  that 
the  note  was  given  by  him  to  the  payee    a,  security  lor  advance  received 
by  him  for  the  supply  of    goods,  to    the  payee  and  that  the  said  note  is 
discharged  by  the  supply  of  such  goods. 

When  a  note  payable  on  demand  •  is  negotiated  it  is  not  deemed 
to  be  over  due  for  the  purpose  of  affecting    the  holder  with   defects  of 
tiUe  of  which  he  had  no  notice  by  reason  that  it  appears  that  «.  reason- 
able time  for  presenting  it  for  payment  has  elapsed  since  its  issue. 
A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene,  for  plaintiff-appellant 
H,  A,  Jayawardene,  for  1st  defendant-respondent 

Ounaratne,  for  2nd  defendant-respondent. 

c.  a.  V. 

Pefeira  J. 

in  this  case  the  first  question  to  be  decided  is  whether 
the  Promissory  Note  sued  upon  has  been  duly  paid  and  dis- 
charged, The  2nd  defendant  was  the  broker  of  the  firm  of 
Clark  Spence  &  Co.,  and  it  is  clear  from  the  evidence  of 
Mr.  Leefe,  the  Manager  of  that  firm,  that  the  promissory 
note  was  given  by  the  1st  defendant  as  security  for  the  sup- 
ply by  the  1st  defendant  to  the  firm  of  coir  yarn  in  liquid- 
ation of  advance  made  to  him  by  the  firm.  It  appears  that 
the  2nd  defendant  as  the  broker  of  the  firm  of  Clark  Spentse 
&  Co.,  was  liable  to  the  firm  for  advances  made  to  cus- 
tomers introduced  by  him.  If  they  made  default  the  2nd 
defendant  was  liable  to  make  good  to  the  firm  the  loss,  and 
hence,  promissory  notes  were,  as  stated  by  Mr.  Leefe,  usually 
taken  in  favour  of  the  2nd  defendant  so  that  he  might  re- 
cover on  them  if  he  was  obliged  to  make  good  loss  as  stated 
above.  The  promissory  note  in  question  was  in  effect  security 
for  the  supply  of  a  certain  quantity  of  coir  yarn  by  the  1st 
defendant  to  Clark  Spence  &  Co,  The  moment  he  supplied 
Vol.  IV. 


25 

the  required  quantity  of  coir  yarn,  the  note    was  discharged.  Sekumarikw 
The  appellant's   counsel  argued  that  it  was  not  open  to  the      Qajoiig 
1st  defendant  t  o  prove  such  an    understanding,  it  being,  as 
he  contended,  obnoxious  to  the    provision   of  Section  92  of  '   ' 

the  Evidence  Ordinance.  I  do  not  think  so.  There  can  be 
no  greater  objection  to  proof  of  such  an  understanding  than 
there  could  have  been  to  proof  of  suspension  of  liability  on 
a  note  which  this  Court  held  would  take  place  in  certain  cir- 
cumstances in  the  case  of  Coles  v,  Caruppen  reported  in  the 
New  Law  Reports  Volume  -16,  page  198.  In  the  present  case, 
of  course,  as  sworn  to  by  Mr,  Leefe  the  1st  defendant  did 
supply  the  coir  yarn  in  liquidation  of  the  amount  advanced 
to  him. 

The  next  question  is  how  far  the  defence  available  to 
the  1st  defendant  as  against  the  2nd  is  available  to  him 
as  against  the  plaintiff.  On  the  authority  of  the  case  of 
Tenna  v.  Balaya  (XI  N.  L.  R.  27)  the  District  Judge  has 
treated  the  present  promissory  note  as  an  overdue  note,  and 
possibly  the  1st  defendant's  counsel  in  the  Court  below  plac- 
ed reliance  on  the  decision  in  this  case  in  conducting  the 
defence.  If  that  decision  is  to  be  deemed  as  imply itig  that 
a  promissory  note  payable  on  demand  is  always  to  be  regard- 
ed as  an  overdue  note  so  far  as  the  matter  of  negotiation  is 
concerned,  I  am  not,  as  at  present  advised,  inclined  to  endorse 
it.  But  I  am  not  sure  that  the  learned  Judge  who  decided 
that  case  intended  to  go  so  far.  Anyway,  in  the  solution  of 
the  question  whether  a  given  instrument  is  overdue,  the 
considerations  that  apply  to  Bills  of  Exchange  payable  on 
demand  are  different  from  those  that  apply  to  promissory 
notes  payable  on  demand-  Section  36,  subsection  3  of  the 
Bills  of  Exchange  Act  1882  (45  and  46  Vict.  Ch.  61)  enacts- 

"  A  bill  payable  on  demand  is  deemed  to  be  overdue " 

when  it  appears  on  the  face  of  it — to  have  been  in  circulation 
"  for  an  unreasonable  length  of  time.  What  is  an"  unreas- 
onable" length  of  time  for  the  purpose  is  a  question  of  fact." 
But  in  section   86   sub-section  2  it  is  provided  as  foJlows- 

Vol.  IV. 


26 

Sekumarikar  "  When  a  note  payable    on  demand  is    negotiated,   it  is  not 
''^- .        deemed  to  be  overdue  for  the  purpose  of  affecting  the  hold- 
er with  defects  of  title  of  which  he  had  no  notice  by  reason 
Enni*.  J.     ^jj^^  jj,  appears  that  a  reasonable  time  for  presenting  it   for 
payment  has  elapsed  since  its  issue  ".     So  that,  the  promis- 
sory note  in  question  in  this  case  cannot  be   deemed  to  be, 
and  treated  as,  an  overdue  note.     That  being  so,  it  is   neces- 
sary that  the  10th  issue  framed  should  be   definitely   deter- 
mined.   In  view  of  the  decision   in  the  case    of   2  enna  v. 
Balaya    cited  above,  neither  Judge   nor    counsel   would . 
appear  to  have  treated  that  issue  as  of  primary  importance  in 
this  case.    That  issue  is  tantamount  to  the  question  whether 
the  plaintiff  is  a  "  holder  in  due  course  "  of  the  promissory 
note  in  question,  and  a  "holder  in   due    conrse",     I   need 
hardly  observe,  is  defined  in  section  29  of  the  Act.     I  would 
set  aside  the  judgment  appealed  from  and  remit   the  case  to 
the  District  Court  for  the  decision   of  the  10th   issue  as  ex- 
plained above  and  judgment  accordingly.    All  costs  should, 
I  think,  abide  the  event. 
Ennis,  J. 

I  agree.  , 

set  aside  and  sent  hack. 

Proctor  for  appellant— ^.^.  Wijayasuriya. 

Proctor  for  respondent^— if.  A.   Soertss. 

KATHIRAVELU  CHETTY  v.  RAMASAMY  CHETTY 

No.  36051  C.  R.  Colombo. 

Present:  Pereira  J. 

February  2nd  1914. 

Prescription— jiari  pay ment-promUsory   note  gicen   in   blank— con- 
nei-ted  in'o  a  note  for  a  larger  .iiiiit  then  the  sum  agreed  to. 

Plaintiff  sued  on  a  promissory  note  for  Rs.  250  and  pleaded 
payment  of  interest  in  bir  of  prescription.  Defendant  denied  the 
granting  of  the  note  sued  upon  but  pleaded  that  he  had  signed  t. 
blank  form  of  note  to  be  converted  into  a  note  for  Rs  60  and  that 
in  the  belief  that  the  form  had  been  so  converted  he  had  paid 
plaintiff  sums  of  money  in  liquidation  of  the  debt 
Vol.  IV. 


27 

Held  that  it  was  not  open  to  plaintiff  to  take  advantag'e  of  this 
plea  and  claim  to  apply  the  payments  pleaded  by  defendant  to  the 
note  sued  upon  and  plead  such  payments  in  bar  of  prescription. 

Allan  Di  ieberg  &  Joseph,  for  plaintiff-appellant 

A:  St.  V.  Jayatvardene,  for  respondent 

c.  a.  V. 

Pereira  J. — The  Commissioner  holds  that  the  plain- 
tiff has  failed  to  discharge  the  burden  on  him  of  proving 
that  his  claim  on' the  promissory  note  sued  upon  is  not 
prescribed  by  reason  of  the  payment  of  interest  by  the 
defendant.  This  decision  might  have  been  recorded  at 
the  close  of  the  case  for  the  plaintiff  and  the  plaintiff's 
case  dismissed.  The  Commissioner,  however  called  on 
the  defendant  for  his  defence,  and  the  defendant  att- 
empted to  prove  a  totally  different  state  of  things  than 
the  granting  of  the  promissory  note  for  Es.  250,  A  part 
of  the  defence  is  that  the  defendant  made  payments  to 
the  plaintiff  for  four  months  on  what  he  thought  was  a 
promissory  note  for  Rs.  60.  The  plaintiff  seeks  to 
take  advantage  of  this  plea  and  convert  it  into  an  ad- 
mission of  payment  sufficient  to  remove  the  note  sued 
upon  from  the  bar  of  prescription.  I  do  not  think  he 
can  be  allowed  to  do  so  A  payment  is  deemed  to  arrest 
the  progress'of  prescription  on  the  assumption  that  it 
involves  an  admission  of  the  debt  in  respect  of  which 
the  payment  is  made,  but  in  this  case  there  was  no 
payment  in  respect  of  the  claim  made  by  the  plaintiff. 
The  alleged  payment  purported  to  be  a  payment  in 
respect  of  a  totally  different  liability.  Whether  th^t 
liability  was  real  or  imaginary  hardly  affects  the 
question.  I  think  that  the  view  taken  by  the  Commis- 
sioner is  correct  and  I  dismiss  the  appeal  with   costs. 

Appeal  dismissed. 

Proctor  for  appellant— C.  T.  Kandiah. 
Proctor  for  respondent—^.  L.  d-,  Witt. 

Vol.  IV- 


28 

8ELESTINA  HAMINE    v.  KARTHELIS 

No.   8987   D.  C.  Negombo. 

Present:  Wood  Renlon  A.  C.  J.  &  de  Sampayo.  A.  J. 

14th  October  1913. 
Marriage  by  haUt  and  repute— evidence  of 

H.  married  A.  in  1865.  The  marriage  was  not  repfistered.  There- 
after in  1872  H.  married  A's  sister  S,  and  this  marriagre  was  registered.  On 
the  qaestion  whether  H's  marriage  with  A  was  legal 

mid  that  though  H's  subsequent  marriage  with  S.  was  registered, 
the  oral  and  documentary  evidence  in  support  of  a  mariage  by  habit  and 
repute  between  H.  &  A.  was  so  strong  that  it  should  be  held  to  be  a  valid 
marriage. 

H.  A.  Jayawardene — for  appellant. 
A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene— tov  respondent. 
Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J.— The  argument  in  support  of 
this  appeal  has  been  limited  to  the  issue  whether  Angohamy, 
on  whose  deed  of  26th  January,  1912,  the  2nd  defendant, 
the  appellant,  claims  a  half  share  of  the  property  in  suit,  was 
the  lawful  wife  of  Don  Hendrick,  her  co-donee  of  the  whole 
property  on  the  deed  of  12th  July  1865.  If  these  donees 
were  not  in  fact  lawfully  married,  half  of  the  property  in 
question  belonged  to  Angohamy,  and  she  would  be  in  a 
position  to  confer  a  valid  legal  title  to  it  upon  the  appellant, 
subject  to  any  question  of  pre-cription  with  which  we  are 
not  here  concerned.  The  issue  as  to  the  validity  of  the 
marriage  between  Angohamy  and  Don  Hendrick  derives  its 
importance  from  the  fact  that  Don  Hendrick  admittedly 
contracted  a  registered  marriage  with  her  sister  Sanchihamy 
in  1872.  The  registration  of  this  marriage  would  not,  of 
C0UTS6,  annul  the  valid  marriage  previously  entered  into  with 
another  woman.  But  where,  as  here,  the  alleged  earlier 
marriage  was  not  registered,  the  registration  of  the  subse- 
quent marriage  might  well  have  the  effect  of  throwing  doubt 
upon  evidence  adduced  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  a 
marriage  by  habit  and  repute.  The  evidence  in  support  of 
the  validity  of  the  marriage  between  Angohamy  and  Don 
Hendrick  in  1865  is  partly  viva  voce  and  partly  documentary. 
The  witnesses,  whom  the  learned  District  Judge  has  believed. 
Vol.  IV. 


29 

have  deposed  to  the  facts  of  their  presence  at  the  celebration    Selestina 
of  the  marriage  itself,  of  its  having  been  carried  out  with     Hamine 

V. 

the  customary  ceremonies,  of  the  parties  having  subsequent-     Karthelis 
ly  been  regarded  as  man  and  wife,  and  of  the  attendance  of  j^  Sampayo, 
the  parties  later  on,  in  that  capacity,  at  marriage  and  funeral  ^^ 

ceremonies.  Perhaps  this  evidence,  if  it  stood  alone,  might 
not  be  strong  enough  to  prevail  against  the  registration  of 
the  second  marriage  after  so  short  an  interval  as  seven 
years  from  the  celebration  of  the  first.  But  the  documen- 
tary evidence  corroborates  the  decision  of  the  District  Judge 
on  the  issue  that  I  am  dealing  with.  In  thf  deed  of  gift  by 
Angohamy's  parents  of  the  property  in  suit  they  describe 
her  as  Don  Hendrick's  wife.  Moreover,  in  1887,  fifteen 
years  after  the  celebration  of  the  marriage  between  Don 
Hendrick  and  Sanchihamy,  we  find  Don  Hendrick  himself 
joining  Angohamy  in  a  deed  of  gift  in  which  she  is  de_- 
cribed  as  his  wife.  The  only  documentary  evidence  that 
can  be  relied  upon,  on  the  other  side,  is  Angohamy's  deed  of 
gift  in  the  appellant's  favour  in  1912.  As  my  brother  de 
Sampayo,  however,  has  pointed  out  in  the  course  of  \he 
argument,  that  deed  shows  traces  of  its  having  been  pre- 
pared with  a  view  to  support  the  appellant's  present  claim. 
We  find  Angohamy,  in  spite  of  her  deed  in  1887,  reciting 
that;  in  1865,  Don  Hendrick  Appu  "had  engaged  and  cove- 
nanted -to  marry"  her,  and  that  subsequently,  "without 
marrying  her;  he  had  got  married"  to  her  sister  Sanchihamy- 
I  do  not  think  that  a  recent  deed  of  this  character  is  entitled 
to  very  much  weight  as  against  the  viva  voce  and  documen- 
tary evidence  in  support  of  the  validity  of  <he  marriage, 
especially  as  in  another  deed  executed  by  Angohamy  on 
12th  June,  1911,  we  find  her  describing  herself  as  Don 
Hendrick's  widow.  On  the  whole  I  think  that  the  decision 
of  the  District  Judge  is  right,  and  I  would  dismiss  the 
appeal  with  costs. 

de  Sampayo,  A.  J. — I  am  of  the  same  opinion. 

appeal  dismissed. 

Proctors  for  appellant. — de  Zoysa  &  Pereira. 

Proctor  for  respondent. — Aserappa. 
Vol.  IV. 


FULL  BENCH. 


MOHAMMADO    ALI    v.    WEERASURIYA, 
No.  4801  D.  C.  Kurunegalle 
Present  :    Lascelles  C.  J.,  Pereira  &  Ennis  J.  J. 

29th  May  1914. 

BegistratioH  Ordinance  M,14oflS91  §§  16  4-  17— what  is  judgment 
affecting  land— registration— ad cerse  title— estoppel  by  matter  of  record, 

A  judgment  declaring  the  rights  of  litigants  to  land  is  not  a  judg- 
ment affeotiag  land  within  the  meaning  of  §  16  of  the  Registration 
Ordinance  No.  14  of  1891  and  is  therefore  not  a  registrable  instrument 
within  §  17  of  that  Ordinance. 

A  judgment  affecting  land  for  the  purposes  of  the  Registration 
Ordinance  must  be  understood  to  be  a  judgment  which  by  its  own 
operation  invests  a  person  with  an  interest  in  the  land,  such  for  example 
as  a  partition  decree  or  a  judgment  which  imposes  or  creates  some  charge 
interest  or  liability. 

Section  17  has  always  been  held  to  be  applicable  to  cases  where 
there  is  competition  between  two  or  more  instruments  of  title  proceeding 
from  the  same  source. 

The  land  Registration  Ordinance  does  not  establish  rights  to  land  by 
registration  ;  it  affects  only  the  devolution  of  rights,  and  leaves  an  un- 
registered instrument  unaffected  for  all  purposes  other  than  the  establish- 
ment of  a  prior  claim  to  one  and  the  same  thing. 

Estoppel  by  matter  of  record  is  not  enacted  as  part  of  our  evidence 
Ordinance  but  the  law  of  estoppel  by  record  is  none  the  less  a  branch  of 
the  law  of  Evidence. 

SamarawickremeandR.L.  Pereira  for  appellant. — The 
appellant's  conveyance  is  registered  The  respondent  bases 
his  title  upon  the  jndgment  in  D.  C.  Kurunegalle  3204. 
That  judgment  has  not  been  registered  and  is  therefore  void 
as  against  the  subsequent  registered  conveyance  of  the  appel- 
lant (see  §  16  of  Ordinance  No.  14  of  1891)  lEnnis  J.  But 
the  judgment  in  D.  C.  Kurunegalle  is  not  one  which  affects 
laud,  it  merely  declares  pre-existing  title  to  land].  A  judg- 
ment may  affect  title  to  land  also.  Suppose  a  plaintiff's  case 
is  dismissed  for  default  of  appearance.  Looking  at  the 
nature  of  the  documents  sought  to  be  registered  as  also  at 
Vol.  IV. 


31 

the  object  aimed  at  by  the  Ordinance,  decrees  should  be 
registered.  Any  other  interpretation  of  the  words  "aflEecting 
land  "would  leave  a  large  number  of  deeds  unregistered  and 
would  result  in  gr'^at  harm,  Madar  Lehbe  v.  Nagamma  ^ 
[Ennis  J — what  about  probate].  Aprobate  is  only  declaratory; 
it  does  not  affect  title.  [Ennis  J.  The  §§  speak  of  apriority 
and  thepriority]  Priority. here  refers  to  the  particular  priority 
given  by  the  section  and  not  to  any  priority  in  point  of  time. 
Priority  here  means  preference  .[Lascelles  C,  J,  Can  a  matter 
which  has  been  once  adjudicated  upon  be  reopened],  §  16 
would  suggest  that  it  can  be  reopened.  \_Lascdles  6'.  J. 
But  a  decree  is  something  inter  partes  and  not  in  rem  and 
therefore  the  principle  is  not  applicable]  §16  is  not  confined 
to  matters  in  rem.  Th6  test  of  §16,  is  to  prevent  the 
mischief  arising  from  the  taking  of  a  conveyance  by  an 
innocent  purchaser,  when  there  is  a  prior  unregistered  con- 
veyance.    The  object  is  to  protect  an  innocent  purchaser, 

Bawa  K,  C.  for  responden^ — Neither  plaintiff  nor 
defendant  relies  upon  the  judgment  as  his  source  of  title. 
The  Ordinance  enjoins  on  a  person  to  register  his  title  to 
land  and  not  blot  out  the  title  of  others.  The  argument  of 
the  other  side  if  upheld  would  land  in  its  logical  conclusions 
to  absurd  results, 

A  declaratory  judgment  does  not  affect  land  ;  §16  does 
not  apply  [Lascelles  0.  J,  How  do  you  proceed  in  case  of 
probate],  A  probate  goes  with  the  will  and  it  need  be 
registered  only  when  there  is  land  ;  see  §  22,  Further  §  18 
sub  §  1  speaks  of  judgments  which  ought  to  be  registered. 
These  judgments  directly,  affect  the  land.  Judgments 
affecting  land  can  be  readily  mentioned  :  partition  decree, 
mortgage  decree  etc,  and  that  is  the  reason  why  Bonser  C,  J 
wanted  a  mortgage  decree  to  be  registered  in  Madar  Lebbe 
V  Nagamma.  ^  Counsel  cited  Casey  v,  Arnqtt.  ^  [Pereira  J, 
That  judgment  does  not  apply  as  it  refers  to  acts  of  persons 

1.   (1902)  6  N.  L.  R.  21    2,    (1876)  2  Common  Pleas  24 
Vol.  IV. 


32 

and  not  decrees  of  a  court]     It  does  not  follow  that  a  "deed 

affecting  land"  is  one  thing  and  a  judgment  affecting  land  is 

another.   §  17  applies  only  to  those  claiming  an  adverse  title. 

Adverse  interest    is    defined  in  Bernard  v..  Fernando  \ 

Samarawickreme,  in  reply.     This  Ordinance  does  not  affect 

§  207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.     Every  valid  judgment 

will  have  the  effect  of  §  207.    But  where  §  17  invalidates  a 

judgnient  §  207  does  not  apply. 

c.  a.  u. 

Lascelles  C.  J.     The  question  of   law   reserved   for 

consideration  by  the  full  Bench  is  as  far  as  I   am  aware  a 

new  one. 

The  plaintiff  and  the  defendant  each  claim  title  to  the 
whole  of  the  land  in  dispute  from  a  separate  source.  The 
plaintiff  claims  through  one  Elapatha  from  one  Kiriga  and 
the  defendant  through  one  Girigoris  Fernando  from  one 
Ukubanda.  In  1908  Elapatha  (through  whom  the  plaintiff 
claims)  sued  Girigoris  Fernando  (through  whom  the  defen- 
dant claims)  in  D.  C.  Kurnegalle  No.  3204  with  respect  to 
the  land  now  in  dispute,  and  by  consent  half  of  the  land 
was  decreed  to  Elapatha  and  half  to  Girigoris  Fernando. 
After  this  decree  Girigoris  Fernando,  although  entitled  to 
half  only  of  the  land,  conveyed  the  whole  to  the  defendant 
who  bought  for  valuable  consideration  and  without  notice 
of  the  decree.  The  defendant  registered  his  conveyance 
In  these  circumstances  the  question  arises  whether  the 
present  action  is  not  res  judicata  by  reason  of  decree  in  the 
previous  action  inasmuch  as  both  plaintiff  and  defendant 
derive  title  through  the  parties  to  that  decree.  The  learned 
District  Judge  has  decided  this  question  in  the  affirmative 
and  the  defendant  now  appeals. 

His  argument  may  be  stated  as  follows.     The  decree  in 

D.  C.  Kurnegalle  No.  3204  was  a  judgment  affecting 

land  "  within  the  meaning  of  section  16  of  the   land  Regis- 
tration  Ordinance  No.  14  of  1891  and  as  such  is  a  registrabble 

1.    (1913)     1GN,L.K.  438 
Vol.  IV. 


instrutnent.     But  this   decree,   not  having  been  registered    Mohamado 
must  be  deemed  void  under  section  17  as  against  the  delen-         -^1' 
dant's  subsequent  conveyance  for  valuable  consideration.  The  weerasuriya 
defendant's  title  therefore  must  be  considered  as  though  the 
previous  judgment  had  no  existence,  so  that  the  plaintifE  is  ^"»'^"**  .^J 
precluded  from  claiming  that  the  matter  in  dispute  in  this 
action  is  res  judicata  in  virtue  of  the  previous  judgment. , 

The  question  raised  is  of  far  reaching  importance.  It 
has  not  been  the  practice  to  register'  decrees  in  land  cases, 
and  if  it  is  held  that  such  decrees  can  be  re-opened  in  the 
mann  er  in  which  the  decree  under  consideration  is  now 
sought  to  be  re-dpened  a  vast  number  of  titles  which  are 
now  believed  to  be  secure  will  be  put  in  question  and  it  is 
difficult  to  see  where  litigation  would  stop. 

I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  th  at  the  appellant's  argu- 
ment is  fallacious. 

At  first  sight  it  may  appear  paradoxical  that  a  judg- 
ment declaring  the  rights  of  litigants  to  land  is  not  a  judg- 
ment affecting  land.  But  I  am  satisfied  that  the  expression 
refers  to  an  entirely  different  class  of  judgments.  In  cons- 
truing our  Registration  Ordinance,  it  must  be  remembered 
that  the  phraseology  of  these  enactments  is  largely  borrowed 
from  that  of  English  Acts  of  Parliament  and  that  ex- 
amination of  these  Acts  often  explains  what  is  obscure  in 
these  Ordinances.  If  reference  be  made  to  English  Acts  of 
Parliament  dealing  with  similar  matters,  many  illustrations 
will  be  found  of  the  sense  in  which  judgments  are  referred 
to,  as  affecting  land.  Speaking  quite  generally  a  judgment 
creditor  in  England  is  regarded  as  having  an  actual  charge 
or  specific  incumbrance  on  the  land  of  the  judgment  debtor. 
The  precise  nature  of  this  right  and  the  conditions  subject 
to  which  it  is  enforceable  are  defined  by  a  long  series  of 
statutes  which  afford  numerous  illustrations  as  to  what  is 
meant  by  judgments  "  affecting  land  " 

Thus  by  32  &  34  Vict-ch.  38  Sect.  1  it  is  enacted  that 
no  judgment  shall  affect  any  lafid  as  to  a  bona  fide  pur- 
Vol-  IV- 


34 

Mohammado  chase    for  valuable  consideration  unless   writ  shall   haVe 

-^''         been  first  issued.    The  same  term  is  used  in   27  &  28   Vict 

WeerasHTiya  ^^  ^^^  Section  1.  No   judgment   "  shall   affect     any  land" 

until  the  land  has  actually  been  delivered  in  execution. 
Uicelle*  C.J  Similarly,  by   4  &   5  Will  and  Mary   ch.  20  Section   30  and 

amending    statutes  it  is  enacted  that     no  judgment  not 

docketed  and  entered  in    the  books  mentioned  in  the  Acts 

shall  "  affect  any  lands  or  tenements." 

The  expression  "  affecting  land  "  is  used  in  the  same 
sense  of  creating  a  charge  or  incumbrance  in  112  Vict  ch. 
110  Section  19,  in  2  Vict  ch.  11  Section  5  (where  the  words 
are  "  bind  or  affect  any  lands  "  &c.)  and  in  3  and  4  Vict  ch. 
82  Section  2. 

When  we  turn  to  the  statutes  dealing  with  registration 
we  find  the  same  expression  used  in  the  same  sense  under 
the  Middlesex  and  Yorkshire  Acts  no  judgment  shall  affect 
or  bind  any  hereditaments  before  entry  of  the  memorandum 

The  statutes  Geo.  II  ch.  6  Section  1  though  it  does 
not  refer  to  judgment  as  "  affecting  land "  is  neverthless 
instructive.  Judgments  etc:  are  void  against  subsequent 
purchasers  for  value  unless  registered  before  the  memorial  of 
conveyance  under  which  the  purchaser  claims  but  if  the 
judgment  is  registered  within  twenty  days  after  the  signing 
thereof  the  lands  of  the  defendant  shall  be  "bound  thereby" 

It  is  clear  that  the  judgments  which  are  declared  to  be 
void  as  against  purchasers  are  judgments  which  would 
otherwise  have  "bound"  the  land  of  the  defendant,  in  the 
sense  of  charging  the  land  with  the  payment  of  a  debt. 

I  think  the  examination  of  these  English  Statutes  which 
are  more  or  less  in  pari  materia  with  our  registration  ordi- 
nances goes  to  shew  that  a  "judgment  affecting  land" 
means  a  judgment  which  by  its  own  operation  creates  some 
right  in  the  land,  imposes  some  thing  in  the  nature  of  a 
charge  or  burden,  and  that  the  term  is  not  there  used  with 
refer,  nee  to  judgments  which  are  merely  declaratorv  of 
Vol.  IV.  ^ 


eht  titles  or  interest  of  the  parts,  which  are   derived,   not  Mohammado 
from    the  judgment   itself,   but  depend    upon   previously         *'' 
acquired   rights.     I  am  therefore    of  opinion  that   a   judg-  ^yeerasuriva 
ment  "  affecting  land"   for  the  purposes   of  this  ordinance, 
must   be  understood  to  be  a  judgment  which,  by  its   own  LascellesC.J. 
operation  invests  a  person  with  an  interest  in  the  land,  such 
for  example    as  a  partition  decree   or  a  judgment   which 
imposes  or  creates,  some  charge  interest  or  liability. 

But  however  this  may  be  I  think  the  appellant's 
case  fails  on  another  point. 

Section  17  has  always  been  held  to  be  applicable  to 
cases  where  there  is  competition  between  two  or  more 
instruments  of  title  proceeding  from  the  same  source. 
But  the  appellant  seeks  to  use  the  section  for  an  alto- 
gether diflEerent  purpose.  He  wishes  to  get  rid  of  a 
disability  imposed  upon  him  by  the  law  of  evidence  and 
to  be  allowed  to  prove  in  this  action  what  he  would 
otherwise  have  been  precluded  by  the  law  of  estoppel 
by  matter  of  record.  Estoppel  by  matter  of  record  is  not 
enacted  as  part  of  our  Evidence  Ordinance,  and  that  it 
is  formulated  in  a  very  incomplete  shape  in  Section  207 
of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code.  But  the  law  of  estoppel 
by  matter  of  record  is  none  the  less  a  branch  of  the  law 
of  evidence. 

Even  assuming  the  judgment  in  question  to  be  a 
registrable  instrument,  it  would  be  straining  the  langu- 
age of  section  17  to  hold  that  the  defendant  is  relieved 
of  the  bar  created  by  the  judgment  if  unregistered.  The 
language  of  the  Section  will  not  admit  of  such  a  cons- 
truction. The  plaintiff  does  not  claim  an  adverse  "inter- 
est "  to  the  defendant  in  virtue  of  the  judgment.  He 
claims  no  interest  at  all  under  the  judgment.  He  in 
effect  says  to  the  defendant,  the  matter  now  in  question 
was  judicially  determined  in  an  action  to  which  your 
vendor  was  a  party.  I  claim  the  benefit  of  the  rule  of  law 
which  forbids  you  fi-om  again  puttingthis  matter  in  queg- 
Vol.  IV. 


36 

Mohamado    tion.     Section  17  does  not  enable  the  defendant  to   meet 

Ali         this  objection.  The  defendant  wouldhave  us  construe  the 

„,     '•    ■      section  to  mean  that  an  unregistered  judgment  shall  not 
Weerasunya  i         •  i 

be  pleaded  res  judicata  as  against  a  party  claiming  under 

ereira,   .    ^  subsequent  registered  instrument. 

But  the  language  of  the  section  will  not  bear  such 
a  construction. 

For  the  above  reasons  I  think  that  the  judgment  of 
the  Court  below  is  right  and  I  would  dismiss  the  appeal 
with  costs. 
Pereira  J. 

In  this  case  I  regret  that  I  am  obliged  to  differ  from 
the  rest  of  the  Court.  The  subject  matter  of  the  action  is 
a  half  share  of  a  certain  parcel  of  land.  In  case  No.  3204  of 
the  District  Court  of  Kurunegalle  a  decree  was  entered  up 
of  consent  of  parties  declaring  one  Elapata  (the  plaintiff  in 
the  case)  entitled  to  a  half  share  of  the  parcel  of  land  referred 
to  above,  and  ordering  that  he  be  "  put  placed  and  quieted 
'in  possession  "  thereof  and  similarly  declaring  one  Grigoris 
(the  defendant)  entitled  to  the  other  half  share,  and  ordering 
that  he  be  "  put  placed  and  quieted  in  possession  "  thereof. 
How  it  was  intended  to  execute  that  part  of  the  decree 
which  directs  that  each  party  be  put,  placed  and  quieted  in 
possession  of  his  half  share,  it  is  difficult  to  say.  However, 
Elapata  did  not  register  the  decree  in  his  favour  with  the 
result  that  Girigoris  sold  the  whole  land  to  the  defendant  in 
the  present  case  who  admittedly  was  an  innocent  purchaser 
for  Yalne.  The  conveyance  in  favour  of  the  defendant  was 
duly  registered.  The  plaintifiE  derives  his  title  from  Elapata. 
The  question  is  whether  in  terms  of  section  17  of  Ordinance 
No.  14  of  1861  the  decree  in  favour  of  Elapata  in  case  No. 
3204  is  not  void,  for  lack  of  registration,  as  against  the 
defendant.  Section  16  of  the  Ordinance  enacts  that  every 
judgment  affecting  any  land  should  be  registered,  and 
section  17  provides  that  any  judgment,  unless  it  is  registered, 
should  be  deemed  void  as  against  parties  claiming  an  adverse 
interest  thereto  on  valuable  consideration  by  virtue  of  any 
Vol.  IV. 


37 

subsequent  deed  duly  registered.  Now  it  is  contended  that  Mohamado 
the  judgment  (or  decree)  in  case  No.  3204  is  not  a  judgment  ^ 
affecting  land  and  that  Girigoris's  conveyance  in  favour  of  -Weerasurlya 
the  defendant  is  not  a  deed  conveying  an  adverse  interest. 
It  is  conceivable  that  a  contrary  view  would  tell  with  some 
hardship  on  those  who  fail  to  register  a  judgment  in  their 
favour,  but  at  the  same  time  it  is  equally  conceivable  that 
should  it  be  held  that  judgment  like  that  entered  up  in  case 
No.  3204  needed  no  registration,  the  door  would  be  opened 
to  the  perpetration  of  an  immence  amount  of  fraud  on  the 
public  by  the  sale  as  has  happened  in  the  case,  of  land  by 
parties  against  whom  judgment  have  been  entered,  by  con- 
cealing that  fact  to  innocent  purchasers.  I  think  therefore 
that  this  is  eminently  a  case  in  which  we  should  be  careful 
to  administer  the  law  as  we  find  it  leaving  it  to  the  legislation 
to  take  action  to  amend  it  if  so  advised. 

The  direct  question  for  decision  in  the  case  is  whether 
a  decree  which  is  an  embodiment  of  an  adjudication  on 
claims  made  to  any  land  by  the  parties  to  an  action  is  not  a 
decree  affecting  land.  I  do  not  think  that  we  can  derive 
much  help  from  cases  decided  in  England  in  construing  the 
expression  "  judgments  affecting  land."  There  is  certainly 
no  case  quite  in  point,  and  the  expression  as  used  in  certain 
English  statutes  has  reference  to  the  peculiar  effect  as  regards 
lands,  of  judgments  of  Court  in  England.  Under  the  statute 
of  Westminister  [13  Edw  1st  St.  I.  C.  18]  a  judgment  in 
England,  that  is  to  say  a  judgment  for  a  mere  debt  such  as 
would  be  called  a  money  debt  in  Ceylon  gave  the  creditor 
a  general  charge  on  the  debtor's  lands.  The  judgments  Act 
1838  [1  &  2  Vict  cl  110]  converted  this  general  charge  into 
a  specific  liev.  Then  came  the  judgments  Act  1864  [27  &  28 
Vict  cl  112j  which  enacted  that  no  judgment  should  affect 
any  land  until  the  land  had  been  actually  delivered  in  exe- 
cution by  virtue  of  a  writ  elegit  or  other  lawful"  authority. 
The  use  of  the  expression  "  affect  any  land  "  here  cannot 
help  us  to  interpriet  the  same  expression  in  onr  Registration 
Ordinance  because  it  is  used  with  reference  to  a  judgment 
Vol.  IV. 


•58 

Mohammado   which  er  facie  had  nothing  to  do  with  land,  and  the  provision 
Ali         in  effect,  is  that  such  a  judgment  should  not  be   allowed   to 

,„  "■  .  affect  any  land  of  the  judgment  debtor  except  in  certain 
'  circumstances.  But  the  judgment  that  we  are  now  dealing 
Pereira,  J,  ^j^jj  directly  affectS  claims  to  land,  and  clearly  in  our  Regis- 
tration Ordinance,  the  expression"  judgment  affecting  land" 
is  used  in  the  sense  of  a  judgment  affecting  any  title,  right 
or  claim  to  land  and  it  is  manifest  that  the  mischief  that  the 
ordinance  was  intended  to  provide  against  was  exactly  such 
as  has  occurred  in  the  present  case.  It  is  well  illustrated  by 
the  present  case. 

Then  can  it  be  said  that  the  defendant  in  the  present 
case  claims  an  interest  adverse  to  that  of  the  plaintiffs?  It 
has  been  said  that  interests  are  not  adverse  unless  they  are 
derived  from  the  same  source.  In  the  present  case  it  so 
happens  that  the  decree  in  case  no  3204  was  what  might  be 
called  a  consent  decree.  So  that  the  right  of  Elapata  really 
emanated  from  Girigoris  as  a  result  of  the  consent  given  by 
him  and  the  deed  an  which  the  present  defendant  relies  is 
also  from  that  same  source.  But  suppose  this  were  a  case 
in  which  the  decree  was  pronounced  by  the  Court  not  of 
consent  but  on  the  merits  of  the  case,  the  question  is  what 
was  the  right  really  gained  thereby  by  Elapata.  He  obtained 
no  title  to  the  land  in  claim  because  that  he  already  had. 
The  right  gained  by  him  was  a  right  to  prevent  Grigoris 
from  advancing  a  claim  to  the  land  in  question.  A  claim 
by  Girigoris  was  therefore  adverse  to  that  right  and  it  is  no 
more  than  such  a  claim  that  the  present  defendant  now  sets 
up  on  the  strength  of  the  conveyance  by  Girigoris. 

It  is  said  that  if  the  words  "  judgment  affecting  land  " 
in  the  Registration  Ordinance  are  given  the  meaning  that  I 
have  mentioned  the  provision  would  conflict  with  section 
207  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code-  I  do  not  think  that  can 
be  so.  Sect* :  207  speaks  of  decrees  of  all  kinds.  As  regards 
a  particular  class,  namely  decrees  affecting  land,  the  Regis- 
tration Ordinance  provides  that  unless  they  are  registered 
they  should  be  void  as  against  subsequent  adverse  claims, 
vol.  IV. 


39 

There  is  no  conflict  here  with  section  207  of  the  Civil  Pro-    Mohamado 
cedure  Code:  that  section  enacts  that  all  decrees  shall  be  final         -^^^ 
between  the  parties.     The  Registration   Ordinance  provides.  Weerasuriya 
that  a  decree   affecting   land  should  be   registered   and   that 
unless  it  is  registered  it  should  be  void  as  against  an  innocent       ""'*   ' 
purchaser  for  value  from  one  of  the   parties  on  a  registered 
conveyance.     I  fail  to  see  the  conflict. 

For  these  reasons  I  think  that  the   appellant  is  entitled 
to  succeed  and  I  would  allow  the  appeal  with  costs. 
Ennis  J. 

In  this  case,  by  a  decree  dated  the  25th  August  1908 
two  persons  Charles  Elapata  and  Girigoris  Fernando  were 
declared  each  entitled  to  an  undivided  half  share  of  certain 
lands. 

The  decree  was  not  registered.     The  plaintiff  is  by 

series  of  deaths  the  successor  in  title  to  Charles  Elapata. 

The  defendant  is  a  purchaser  from  Girigoris  Fernando 
who  sold  the  entire  land  without  disclosing  the  decree  of 
1908.     Two  preliminary  issues  were  tried  first  :  — 

(1)  Is  the  decree  res  judicata  and  is  the  defendant 
estopped  from  denying  the  plaintiff's  title. 

(2)  Is  it  void  as  against  defendant's  title  by  reason  of 
its  not  having  been  registered.  The  learned  District  Judge 
found  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff.  It  was  argued  in  appeal 
that  the  decree  was  an  order  of  the  Court  affecting  land  and 
as  such  should  have  been  registered  as  required  by  section 
16  of  the  Land  Registration  Ordinance  No.  14  of  1891.  That 
not  having  been  registered  it  was  void  under  section  17  of 
that  Ordinance  against  one  who  claimed  an  adverse  interest 
in  the  land  by  virtue  of  a  subsequent  registered  deed.  It  was 
conceded  that  the  Land  Registration  Ordinance  could  not 
operate  to  create  title  and  that  the  defendant  could  not 
obtain  a  greater  title  than  his  vendor  had,  but  it  was  urged 
that  the  decree  being  void  the  parties  were  free  to  litigate 
over  again  the  matters  settled  by  the  decree. 

Vol.  IV. 


40 

Mohamado  On  the    first  point,    I  am   not  convinced  that  a   decree 

Ali         merely  declaring  title  to  land  is  an  order  of  the  Court   "  aff- 
"■    .      acting"    land   as   contemplated    by    the  Land    Registration 
eerasuriya  ^^^.^^^^^^^     j^  ^jjj  ^^  observed  that  the   other   documents 
Ennis  J.      ^j^g   registration    of  which  is  compulsory  under  section    16 
are  all  documents  affecting  the  devolution  of   land  by  trans- 
fer, transmission,  or  charge.     They  all  aflEect  the  title  to  land, 
but  how  can  a  decree  which   merely   declares  title  aflEect  the 
title.    The  title  existed  presumably   before    the  action   in 
which  the  decree  was  had  and  the   decree  declaring  title  is 
the  expression  of  the  finding  of  the  Court  as  to  the  true  State 
of  the  existing  title.     It   must  be  presumed   to  be    a  right 
finding  and  not  one  which  affects   the  title  but    one   which 
merely  settles  it. 

Assuming  however  for  argument  that  a  decree  declaring 
title  to  land  is  a  document  which  must  be  registered  under 
section  16  what  would  be  the  affect  of  registration  ?  Section 
17  provides  that  an  unregistered  instrument  is  to  be  deemed 
void  as  against  persons  claiming  an  adverse  interest  there  to 
on  valuable  consideration  by  virtue  of  a  subsequent  register 
ed  deed  but  there  is  a  proviso  that  this  shall  not  be  deemed 
to  give  any  greater  effect  to  the  registered  instrument  than 
the  priority  conferred  by  the  section.  This  section  in  my 
opinion,  means  that  the  unregistered  instrument  is  to  be 
deemed  void  only  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  priority  in 
the  registered  deed  and  for  no  other  purpose.  In  this  case 
no  question  of  priority  arises,  because,  in  my  opinion  the 
,  principle  of.priority  applies  only  between  parties  deriving 
title  from  the  same  source,  for  the  land  Registration  Ordin- 
ance does  not  establish  rights  to  land  by  registration,  i 
affects  only  the  devolution  of  rights  and  leaves  an  unregis- 
tered instrument  unaffected  for  all  purposes  other  than  the 
establishment  of  a  prior  claim  to  one  and  the  same  thing  ; 
the  effect  of  an  unregistered  instrument  as  evidence  to 
establish  an  independent  original  right  is  not  in  my  opinion, 
altered  by  the  Ordinance. 
Vol.  IV. 


41 

A   somewhat   similar     conclusion    was    arrived    at  in  Mohammido 
Bernard  u,  Fernando  (IG  N.  L.  R.  438)  where  two   persons         Ali 
owned  an  undivided  one  fifth  of  a  land  bat  were  subsecjuent-  v. 
ly  by  a   partition   decree   allotted   two   separate   lots   after  Weerasuriya 
the  passing  of  the  decree,  but  before  it  was   registered   they     ^"""  ■'• 
sold  an  undivided  one  fifth  of  the  entire   land.     In  that  case 
it  was  remarked  "  It  cannot  be   supported   that  the   Regis- 
tration  Ordinance    intended    to  defeat  the 

whole  object  of   legislation  with  regard  to   partitioning    of 

lands The  truth,  I  think,  is  that  the  expression   ailverse 

interest  refers  only  to  cases  where  two  persons  claim  inter- 
ests traceable  to  the  same  origin.  "  The  partition  decree  in 
that  case  was  held  good  to  establish  title  to  the  two  separate 
lots,  so  in  this  case,  in  my  opinion,  the  decree  of  the  2.)th 
August  1908  is  good  to  bar  claims  between  the  same  parties 
and  their  successors  in  title  at  variance  with  the  decree.  In 
my  opinion  sections  16  and  17  of  the  Registration  Ordinance 
were  never  intended  to  affect  title  in  any  other  way  than 
by  giving  priority  in  cases  of  alienation  and  incumbrances, 
matters  which  affects  property  in  interests  derivable  from 
the  same  source  but  do  not  affect  the  validity  of  separate 
titles.  So  far  as  the  Registration  Ordinances  do  not  estab- 
lish title  by  registration  and  merely  deal  with  the  registration 
of  documents  of  title  the  effect  of  the  Ordinances  on  the 
validity  of  title  by  priority  of  registration  must  necessarily 
be  limited  to  devolution  of  property  from  the  same  source 
by  conflicting  deeds. 

In  my  opinion  the  defendant  is  estopped  by  the  decree 
of  the  25th  August  1908  and  I    would  dismiss   the  appeal. 


Appeal  (lisinlsscd. 

Proctors  for  appellant. — Markiis  t&  Markus. 
Proctor  for  respondent. — F  DanieJs. 

Vol.  IV. 


43 
PONNAN  V.  UKKUBANDA 
71911  P.  C.  Nuwara  Eliya. 
Present;  Wood  Renton  A.  C.  J. 

11th  July  19i;5. 

Dish.mesHy  r^cdvin,!  ^tolenpn,peri!i-mhjohidei- of  aarges'-illegali- 
ty^  ^178  Cr-  P.  Code  Xo.  IS  of  1S9S. 

The  appellant  was  charged  with  two  other  men  with  having  dis- 
honestly received  stolen  property.  The  evidence  showed  that  the 
receipt  of  the  stolen  property  by  the  appellant  was  at  a  point  of  time 
different  from  its  alleged  receipt  by  his  co-accused. 

Held,  that  the  joinder  of  the  charges  against  the  three  accused 
and  their  simultaneous  trial  are  in  contravention  of  §  178  of  the  Cri- 
minal Procsdure  Code  and  are  not  saved  by  the  provisions  of  §   184. 

The  provisions  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  which  §  178 
embodies  are  designed  to  secure  to  an  accused  person  substantial 
rights  which  cannot  be  denied  without  injustce.  They  are  intended 
to  enable  him  to  call  if  he  is  so  advised  persons  who  could  otherwise 
be  his  co-accused  as  his  own  witnesses.  1  hey  are  further  intended 
to  restrict  the  tiial  of  a  criminal  charge  to  a  clear  issue  and  to  see 
that  nothing  is  allowed  to  enter  into  the  cise  which  can  interfere 
with  the  definite  proof  of  a  distinct  offence  which  it  is  the  object  of 
all  Criminal  Procedure  to  obtain. 

H.  A.  Jayewanlcnc  ior  a.T^x>^\\a.ni: — The  whole  proceed- 
ings amount  to  an  illegality.  There  has  been  a  misjoinder  of 
charges  against  the  accused  ;  See  §  178  Cr.  Pr.  Code.  The 
evidence  shows  that  tie  receipt  of  the  stolen  property  by  the 
appellant  was  at  a  time  different  from  the  receipt  of  it  by  the 
other  accused  therefore  it  cannot  be  said  that  the  offences 
were  committed  in  the  course  of  the  same  transaction. 
§  184  woukl  not  therefore  apply,  see  Subramania  Ayyar 

V  King  Eniperor.  ^ 

c.  a    V. 

Wood  Renton.  A.  C.   J. — The  appellant  was  charged 

with  two  other   men  in  the    Police  Court  of   Nuwara   Eliya 

with  having   dishonestly    received  certain   stolen    property. 

The  learned  Police  Magistrate    convicted  hiin  under  section 

394  of  the  Penal  Code,   and  sentenced   him   to  six    month's 

1.  (1901)  I.  L.  R.  Mad.  61. 
Vol.  IV. 


43 

rigorous  imprisonment,  and,  in   addition  to   pay   a   fine   of      Ponnan 
Rs.  50/-,  or  in  default,  to  under  go  further  imprisonment  for  v. 

a  period  of  six  months.  The  appeal  is  not  pressed  on  the  Ukkubanda 
merits.  The  only  point  argued  in  support  of  it  was  that  the  ^•"*<'  •**"' 
proceedings  involved  a  violation  of  the  provisions  of  sec' ion  a  ^  j 
178  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  by  reason  of  the  fact 
that  the  appellant  was  tried  with  other  persons  for  different 
offences  which,  though  they  are  of  the  same  character,  did  not 
arise  out  of  the  same  transaction.  The  evidence  clearly  shows 
that  the  receipt  of  the  stolen  property  by  the  appellant  was 
at  a  point  of  time  different  from  its  alleged  receipt  by  his 
CO-  accused,  and  that  these  two  acts  can  in  no  respect  be  re- 
garded as  forming  part  of  one  and  the  same  transaction.  It 
follows,  therefore,  that  the  joinder  of  the  charges  against  the 
three  accused,  and  their  simultaneouas  trial  are  in  contraven- 
tion of  section  178  of  the  Criminal  Proceedure  Code  and  are 
not  saved  by  the  provisions  of  section  181.  It  was  held  by 
the  Privy  Council  in  the  well-known  case  of  SHhramania 
Aiiyar  v.  King  Emperor  ^  that  a  disregard  of  the  provis- 
ions of  section  233  of  the  Indian  Code  of  Criminal  Proced- 
ure, which  is  practically  identical  with  section  178  of  our 
own  Code,  was  not  a  mere  irregularity  which  could  be  over 
looked  if  it  had  been  productive  of  no  substansial  injustice. 
In  delivering  the  judgment  of  the  Privy  Council,  fhe  Lord 
Chancellor,  Lord  Halsbury,  made  use  of  the  following 
language, — "  The  remedying  of  mere  irregularities  is  familiar 
in  most  systems  of  jurisprudence,  but  it  would  be  an  ex- 
traordinary extension  of  such  a  branch  of  administering  the 
Criminal  law  to  say  that,  when  the  Code  positively  enacts 
that  such  a  trial  as  that  which  has  taken  place  here  shall  not 
be  permitted,  th's  contravention  of  the  Code  comes  within 
the  description  of  error,  omission,  or  an  irregularity.  "These 
words  are  directly  applicable  to  the  present  case.  I  desire  to 
point  out  that  the  provisions  of  the  Code  of  Criminal  Proce- 
dure, which  section  178  embodies  are  designed  to  secure  to 

1.     (1911)  1.  L.  R.  Mad.  61. 
Vol.  IV, 


44 

Ponnan  an  accused  person  substantial  rights  which  cannot  be  denied 
without  injustice.  They  are  intended  to  enable  him  to  call 
Ukkubanda  jf  he  is  SO  advised,  persons  who  could  otherwise  be  his  co- 
Wood  Ren-  accused,  as  his  own  witnessess.  They  are  further  intended 
A*C*J  and  here  I  will  again  quote  from  the  judgment  of  Lord 
Halsbury  in  Sahmhmania  Ayyar  v.  King  Emperor  to 
restrict  the  trial  of  a  criminal  charge  to  a  clear  issue,  and  to 
see  that  nothing  is  allowed  to  enter  into  the  case  which 
can  interfere  with  "the  definite  proof  of  a  distinct  offence 
which  it  is  the  object  of  all  criminal  procedure  to  obtain." 
It  is  obvious  without  expressing  any  opinion  on  the 
facts  adduced  in  evidence  at  the  trial  of  the  appellant, 
that  he  is  not  entitled  to  a  complete  acquittal.  I  set  aside 
the  conviction  and  the  sentence,  and  send  the  case  back 
for  a  new  trial  which  as  the  Police  Magistrate  has  inevitab- 
ly and  naturally  formed  his  own  opinion  in  regard  to  the 
evidence,  must  take  place  before  another  judge. 

Set  aside  and  sent  back. 
Proctor  for  appellant — Timothy  de  Silva. 


-M^ 


.     DINGIRIAMMA     v.   APPUHAMY. 
No.  21319  D.  C.  Kandy. 
Present  :  Lascelles  C.  J,  &    De  Sampayo    J, 

Stith  January  1914. 

Action  fiirpavtithin — inuHridcd  sharex—caune  of  action — crliaitsion 
of  alUhe  ivVipf  with  respect  to  the  cause  oj'iwtion — ^34  Civil  Procedure 
Code. 

When  by  a  deed  which  recited  the  entire  boundaries  of  a  land  the 
plaintiff  was  gifted  "  a  23  share  towards  the  southern  side  from  and  out 
of  the  allotment  of  land  within    these  boundaries." 

Tfeld,  that  the  deed  conveyed  an  undivided  interest  in  the  land  and 
that  the  plaintiff  could  bring  a  partition  action  with  respect   to   the  land. 

Vol.   IV. 


45 

§  34  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  is  directed    to  securinK'   the  ex-  Din^iriamma 
haustion  of  the  relief  in  respect  of  a  cause    of  action  and  not   to  the  in-  ^ 

elusion  in  one  and  the  same  action  different  causes  of  action  even  though     Appuhamy 
they  arise  from  the  same  transaction. 

_  L^.scellcs  C.J 

A,  St.  V.  Jayaivardene  for  defendant   appellant. 

A.  Drieherg  for  plaintiff  respondent 

c,  a.  V, 
Lascelles  C,  J. 

This  is  an  appeal  from  a  judgment  of  the  District  Court 
of  Kandy  declaring  the  plaintiffs  and  added  plaintiifs 
entitled  to  a  one-third  share  in  an  allotment  of  land  called 
Jamanarankotuwe  Bogahamnlahena  and  ejecting  the  defen- 
dant therefrom. 

The  learned  District  Judge  has  exhaustively  gone  into 
the  complicated  pedigrees  of  the  parties  and  into  the  cir- 
cumstances on  which  the  claims  of  the  parties  are  founded, 
I  have  no  doubt  but  that  he  has  arrived  at  a  correct  conclu- 
sion with  regard  to  the  rights  of  the  parties.  But  the  appel- 
lant has  put  forward  certain  technical  and  in  some  cases 
ultra- technical  considerations  which  must  be  noticed. 

Tn  the  first  place  it  is  said  that  the  2nd  and  3rd  plain- 
tiffs are  estopped  by  the  decision  in  the  Village  Tribunal  case 
No.  3542  Matale  South.  But,  apart  from  any  ob.iection  on 
the  ground  that  estoppel  was  not  specifically  pleaded,  this  is 
clearly  not  the  case.  The  substantial  matter  in  issue  in 
those  proceedings  was  the  right  to  a  1/3  share  of  the  land  in 
dispute.  It  is  clear  from  the  Assistant  Government  Agent's 
judgment  that  the  whole   land  was  worth  at  least  Rs.  200. 

The  claim  to  1/?  was  thus  beyond  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Village  Tiibunal  unless  it  can  be  shewn  that  the  parties  gave 
their  consent  in  writing  in  the  prescribed  form  in  accordance 
with  section  28  (2)  of  the  Village  Communities  Ordinance 
1889.  This  has  not  been  done.  The  decision  of  the  Village 
Tribunal,  on  the  question  of  title  was  thus  outside  the 
jurisdiction  of  that  tribunal  and  cannot  therefore  amount  to 
res-ad^udicata. 
Vol.  TV. 


46 

Dingiriamma         Then  it  is  said  that  in  District  CourtKandy  No.  20660 

y  the    plaintiff    (the  2nd    plaintiff   in     these     proceedings), 

Appuhamy  in  as  much  as  he  was  aware  of  the  extent   of  the  defendant's 

Sampayo  J.  claim  should  not  have  limited  his  claim  to  2/3,   and  that  he 

is  precluded  by  the  decree  in  those  proceedings   from    now 

claiming  the  other  1/3.     But  the  remedy  must  depend  upon 

the  wrong. 

The  complaint  was  that  the  defendant  in  that  action  had 
forcibly  and  unlawfully  entered  into  possession  of  2/3  of  ihe 
land.  The  remedy  claimed,  namely  a  declaration  of  title  to 
the  southern  2/3  shares  was  appropriate  to  the  injury  com- 
plained of.  There  is  no  analogy  between  this  case  and  the 
illustration  to  Section  34  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  of  a 
claim  for  rent  for  one  year  only  when  the  rent  for  two 
years  is  due. 

Then  it  is  said  that  the  remedy  sought  for  by  the  plain- 
tiffs is  misconceived  and  that  they  have  not  adopted  the 
right  form  of  action.  The  authority  cited  for  this  contention 
is  the  judgment  of  Pereira  J.  in  13.5  D.  C.  (Inty)  Puttalam 
N  o.  2366.  But  the  facts  of  that  case  present  no  analogy  to 
the  case  under  consideration.  In  the  former  case  there  had 
been  a  partition  deed  by  which  the  1st  and  2nd  defendants 
stated  that  they  had  divided  and  accepted  as  their  share  two 
third  portions  of  the  land  towards  the  northern  side  con- 
taining 128  acres,  and  the  plaintiff  declared  that  he  had 
divided  and  accepted  for  his  third  share  a  portion  of  64 
acres  on  the  south.  It  was  there  held  that  a  partition 
action  was  inappropriate  and  that  if  it  was  found  impos- 
sible to  demarcate  the  boundary  between  the  shares,  it 
was  open  to  either  party  to  ask  the  Court  to  do  so.  There 
is,  I  think,  no  foundation  for  the  suggestion  that  a 
similar  course  ought  or  could  be  taken  in  the  present 
case. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 
De  Sampayo  J. 

I  agree,  and  wish  only  to  touch  upon  two  of  the 
Vol.  IV, 


47 

points  urged  on  behalf  of  the  defendant-appellant.     The  Dingiriamma 
deed  of  gift  by  Tikiri  Menika  gave  the  boundaries  of  the  ^ 

entire  land  and  conveyed  to  the  2nd  plaintiff "  a  2/3  Appuhamy 
share  towards  the  Southern  side  from  and  out  of  the  Sampayo  J. 
allotment  of  land  within  those  boundaries ".  It  is 
argued  that  under  the  deed  the  2nd  plaintiff  became 
entitled  to  a  divided  portion  of  the  land  and  that  this 
action  for  the  partition  of  the  entire  land  cannot  be 
maintained.  This  form  of  description  of  the  interest 
intended  to  be  conveyed  is  not  uncommon  in  deeds  in 
Ceylon  though  it  is  inartistic  as  a  matter  of  conveyanc- 
ing but  so  far  as  I  am  aware  such  deeds  have  not  been 
construed  to  convey  other  than  an  undivided  share  in 
the  land.  What  the  parties  should  be  taken  to  mean  is 
that  the  grantee  should  possess  his  interest  in  a  parti- 
cular side  of  the  land.  Of  course,  if  a  portion  is  there- 
after divided  off  and  is  separately  possessed,  the  Court 
may,  in  certain  circumstances,  regai-d  the  entire  land  as 
no  longer  held  in  common  within  the  meaning  of  the 
Partition  Ordinance  and  so  disallow  proceedings  under 
the  Ordinance.  But  I  do  not  think  that  such  a  deed 
without  more  should  necessarily  be  taken  as  of  itself 
conveying  a  divided  portion  of  land.  The  deed  dealt 
with  in  the  Puttalam  case  cited  as  an  authority  was  a 
partition  deed  and  provided  for  the  divided  portion  allot- 
ted to  the  several  parties  being  properly  demarcated  by 
means  of  a  survey,  and,  if  I  may  say  so,  this  Court 
rightly  held  that,  in  the  absence  of  a  survey  binding 
upon  the  parties,  the  proper  course  was  not  to  bring  an 
action  for  partition  of  the  land  afresh  but  to  apply  to 
Court  for  the  definition  of  boundaries.  The  circumstances 
of  that  case  were  therefore  entirely  different  from  those 
with  which  we  have  to  deal  here. 

It  was  further  contended  that  the  2nd  plaintiff  was 
concluded  by  the  claim  made  in  the  action  No.  20660  of 
the  District  Court  of  Kandy.    The  2nd  plaintiff,  as  al- 

Vol.  IV. 


48 

Dingiriamma  ready  stated,  is  entitled  to  a  2/3  share   by  virtue   of  the 

deed  of  gift  from  Tikiri  Menika,     She    is    also   entitled 

Appuhamy  (by  inheritance  from  Tikiri  Menika)  to  a  certain  interest 

Sampayo  J.  o^t  of  the  remaining  1/3  share  of  the  land.  The  Kandy 
case  was  brought  by  her  only  in  respect  of  the  2/3  share 
on  an  allegation  that  the  defendant,  who  was  also 
defendant  in  that  action,  had  since  a  certain  date  been 
in  the  unlawful  possession  of  that  2/3  share.  Now  the 
argument  is  that  she  should  have  included  in  that  claim 
her  interest  in  the  other  1/3  share  also,  as  at  that  time 
the  defendant  knew  that  the  defendant  was  claiming 
that  1/3  share,  and  that  in  view  of  the  provisions  of  §, 
34  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  she  is  estopped  now  from 
setting  up  any  title  to  any  interest  in  that  share.  I  do 
not  think  this  argument  is  well  founded.  The  2nd 
plaintiff's  cause  of  action  in  the  Kandy  case  was  the 
ouster  in  respect  of  her  2/3  share  of  the  land.  There 
may  have  been  disputes  as  to  the  title  to  the  other  1/3 
share  which  she  and  several  others  owned  on  a  different 
title,  but  such  disputes  would  constitute  a  distinct  and 
separate  cause  of  action.  As  was  pointed  out  by  the 
Friwy  Gouncilin Pnlaii iojjpa  Chelty  v.  Saminathan  Clietiy  ^ 
decided  on  16th  December,  1913,  section  34  of  our  Code 
■'  is  directed  to  securing  the  exhaustion  of  the  relief  in 
respect  of  a  cause  of  action  and  not  to  the  inclusion  in 
one  and  the  same  action  different  causes  of  action,  even 
though  they  arise  from  the  same  transactions ." 

Appeal  dismissed. 
Proctor  for  appellant — Bcoeii  &  Beven 
.  Proctor  for  respondent— .4.  H.  Vnn  Lamjenlerrj 


(1)  17  N.  L.  R.  56. 
Vol.   IV. 


10 

SEGU  MOITA]\[MADlT  v.  SULTAN    ^[EYDEEN  el  al. 

C.  R.   Jaffna   No.   11427. 

Present:     De    Sampayo,  J. 

18th  February,    1916. 

Trustee— right  tu  lease— ralidify  of  lease   after    death. 

A  trustee  in  Ceylon  has  the  right  in  the  abssnce  of  anythin?  to  the 
contrary  in  the  instrument  of  trust  to  grant  a  lease  for  a  reasonable 
term.    Such  a  lease  would  be  valid  even  after  the  death  of  the    trustee. 

The  position  of  a  trustee  is  different  from  that  of  a  fiduciary.  A 
trustee  has  no  pergonal  interest  in  the  trust  p.operty,  while  a  fiduciary 
possesses  the  property  for  his  own  benefit,  so  that  the  law  which  pre- 
vents a  fiduciary  from  leasing  the  property  for  a  longer  period  than  his 
own  life  or  other  limited  estate  does  nit  apply  to  a  trnstae. 
James  J  mo  [ill    (with  him    Arulanandan)  — 

The  D.  .J.  is  in  error  in  framing  only  one  issue  in  the 
case.  The  will  creates  what  is  known  to  Mohammadan 
Law  as  a  WaJff  and  Nainapillai  was  the  Muicialli.  or 
Trustee.  A  lease  given  by  a  Muwtalli  is  not  cancelle  I 
by  his  death.  Ameer  AWs  Mohammadan  Law  Yol  I  380; 
Under  the  English  Law  a  trustee's  right  to  lease  trust  pro- 
perty is  recognised.     Leivin  on  trusts   p    757. 

Counsel  referred  also  to  Bam.   78-10,    185. 
A.  St.  r.  Jaycwardene  for  the   Respondents. — 

The  point   is   concluded  by  authority.     Ham.  1811  p. 
■3,25.     A  trustee  is  in  the  same  position  as  a  fiduciary    rinder 
a  fidei  commissum  and    cannot   bind  the    property    for    a 
longer  period  than  his  interest  in   the    property. 
Arulanandan  in  reply  : — 

Ram.  1817  ji  825  was  considered  in  the  case  of  Qiria- 
gam'i  v.  Henaya.^  A  trustee  is  in  a  diffei-ent  position  to  that 

of  a  fiduciary. 

c.     a.    V. 

de  Sampayo,  J.     One    Katuru    Meyadeen   by   his  will 

dated  itli  June  1874  sot  apart  a  certain  land  for  the  use  of 

(1)     2    C.    L.    R.     42. 
Vol.  IV. 


50 
sogu  Moham-    a  mosque  and  directed  that  the  income  should   be    applied 

miido 

„  „  ^v , .     to  defraying  the  expense  of  lighting  a  lamp  daily   at    the 

Sultan  Mobi-  ^       o  * 

'^'*"  ,  mosque,  repairing  and  maintaining  the  mosque  itself,  and 
holding  the  annual  'Kandiri'  or  almsgiving.  He  appointed 
as  trustee  "  to  look  after  and  manage  the  said  land"  his 
plder  brother  Muhamadu  Sultan  and  after  him  his  younger 
brother  Usan  Nayinapulle  and  after  them  the  eldest  of 
their  male  descendants.  Usan  Nayinapulle  in  due  course 
became  trustee  under  the  provisions  of  the  will.  In  Novem- 
ber 1912,  he  granted  a  lease  of  the  land  to  the  defendants 
for  a  term  of  8  years  and  died  a  few  months  before  this 
action.  The  plaintiff,  who  is  the  eldest  male  descendant  of 
the  testator's  brothers  and  has  succeeded  them  as  trustee  in 
terms  of  the  will,  sued  the  defendants  in  ejectment.  The 
issue  stated  at  the  trial  was  whether  Usan  Nayinapulle  had 
power  to  grant  a  lease  for  a  longer  period  than  his  own 
tenure  of  office  as  trustee.  The  Commissioner  decided 
this  issue  in  the  negative  and  gave  judgment  for  the 
plaintiff. 

The  position  of  a  trustee  is  different  from  that  of  a 
aduciary.  A  trustee  has  no  personal  interest  in  the  trust 
property,  while  a  fiduciary  possesses  the  property  for  his 
own  benefit,  so  that  the  law  which  prevents  a  fiduciary, 
from  leaving  the  property  for  a  longer  period  than  his  own 
life  or  other  limited  estate  does  not  apply  to  a  trustee.  In 
the  due  management  of  the  property  and  in  the  interest  of 
the  trust  I  think  that  a  trustee  in  Ceylon  has  the  right,  in 
the  absence  of  anything  to  the  contrary  in  the  instrument 
of  trust,  to  grant  a  lease  for  a  reasonable  term.  Under  the 
English  law  a  trustee  may,  even  without  an  express  power, 
let  from  year  to  year,  but  the  decisions  are  conficting  as  to 
whether  he  can  let  for  a  longer  term  without  a  power. 
Of  course  it  is  in  the  power  of  the  Court  to  upset  a  lease 
whicn  is  improvident  and  prejudicial  to  the  objects  of  the 
trust.  The  principle  to  be  drawn  from  the  authorities 
Vol.  IV, 


51 

appears  to  be  that  a  trustee  may  lot  for  a  longer  term  than  segu  MoUom- 
ne  year  subject  to  the  condition   which  Lord  Eldon  stated        *"?." 
in  AUorney-Ceneral  V.  Oiven,^   namely  that  it    should    be     "  dMn"" 
shown  that  the    lease  was  reasonable  and  granted  in   the  '  ""'""'°' 
fair  management  of  the  estate.     This  is  in  accordance   with 
what  has    been   laid  down  in  the  few  cases  which   have 
arisen  in  Ceylon.     In  Loku  Banda  v.  Giriagama  ^    which 
related  to  the  right  of  a  Basnaike  Nilame,    the   Court,  after 
referring  to  the  pi-actice  in  connection  with  Dewalas,   ob- 
served :  "Every  case  will  greatly  depend  on  its  own  circum- 
stances and  the  urgency  of  the  need  for  a  departure  from 
ordinary  usage,  the  guiding  principle  being  that  a    Basnaike 
Nilame  should   execute  his  trust,    consistingly    with   the 
interest  of  the  Dewale,  as   one  terminating  with  himself, 
hampering  his  successor  as  little  as  possible",   This   princi- 
ple was  reaffirmed  in    Dewa   Nilame  v.  Henaya?     This 
case  I  think  may  be  decided  on  the  same  basis. 

The  period  of  8  years  in  the  case  of  agricultural  land 
is  not  prima  facie  excessive.  Nor  is  the  rent  secured  shown 
to  be  inadequate.  Indeed,  the  plaintiff  has  not  based  his 
action  on  any  allegation  that  the  lease  was  in  itself  undesir- 
able or  that  Usan  Naynapulle  was  personally  benefited 
thereby.  The  sole  ground  of  action  it  that  the  lease 
became  on  the  death  of  Usan  Naynapulle  ipso  facto 
inoperative,  and  the  issue  was  stated  and  decided  as  a  pure 
matter  of  law.  In  my  opiuton  the  plaintiff  was  not  en- 
titled to  succeed  on  that  issue. 

The  judgment  appealed  from  is  set  aside  and  the  case  is 
sent  back  for  the  trial  of  the  other  issues  arising  in  the  case. 
The  plaintiff  will  pay  the  costs  of  this    appeal 

set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellant — K.  Somasunderam 

Proctor  for   respondents — K.  Tamhyah. 

1.    10.    Vic.    560. 
2.    (1875)    Ram  1872-1876,  185    3  (1891)  2  C.  L.  R.  42. 
Vol,  IV. 


FULL  BENCH 

BANDARA   v,s.  SINNO  BAB  A. 
No  6245  D.   C.   Matara. 
Present:    Wood    Renton,  C.    J.,   Shaw,     and     de 
Sampayo,   J.J. 

28tli   January  1916. 

Partition  Ordinance  ^n  1"  of  1S63— order  fur  sale — conclusive 
derm:  within  meaniraj  (if  Section.  0 — Decree  for  sate  under  Section  4. 

Per  Curiam  :  The  conclusive  decree  witWa  the  meaning  of  section 
9  of  the  Partition  Ordinance  1863  in  the  caae  where  the  court  has 
directed  the  sale  of  the  property  is  the  decree  under  section  4  by  which 
the  title  of  the  parties  is  ascertained  and  the  property  is  ordered  to  be 
sold. 

Per  Wood  Ronton  C.J  :  I  may  say  in  passing  that  the 
right  of  intervention  under  the  Partition  Ordinance  so  far  from  being 
extended  should  be  peremptorily  barred  in  the  courts  of  iirst  instance  on 
the  expiry  of  a  prescribed  period  after  the  interlocutory  decree  and 
could  be  so  barred  with  safety  provided  always  that  due  provision 
was  made  for  securing  greater  publicity  to  partition    proceedings. 

E.  W.  Jayawardcna  for  plaintiff-appellant. 

Keuneman  for  intervenients-responclents. 

Wood  Renton,  C.  J.  This  case  has  been  referred  by 
my  brothers  Shaw  and  de  Sampayo  to  a  bench  of  three 
Judges  for  the  determination  of  the  question,  whether  the 
decree  for  sale,  to  which  §  9  of  the  partition  Ordinance, 
1863  ^  assigns  a  conclusive  effect,  is  the  original  order 
for  sale  or  the  certificate  of  Court  mentioned  in  Section  S. 
There  have  been  two  conflicting  currents  of  authority  on 
the  point.  The  view  adopted  impliedly  by  Clarence,  A.  C.  J. 
in  Don  Mathes  Appuhamy  v.  Wijeslritt'ardena  ^  and 
expressly  by  Wendt  and  de  Sampayo,  J.  J.,  in  50  D.  C.  F. 
Colombo,  No.  11747  ^   and   by    Sir   Charles   Layard,    C.   J., 

(1).    No.  10  of  186;3.  Cj).    (i.ss;])  5.  S.  C.  C.  181 

(3)     S.  C.  M.  4th  August,  1904. 
Vol.  IV. 


and  Moncreiff,  J.,  in  Louis  Appulicimy  v.   Punchy  Baha  '        Baudara 
was  that  the  certificate  of  sale  is  merely  evidence  of  the  pnr-    siimo '  Baba 

Wood  Rentoni 

chaser  s  title  without  any  deed  or  transfer  from  the  former  c,  j. 
owner,  and  is  not  the  decree  for  sale  to  which  Section  <S 
refers.  On  the  other  land  Lawrie,  A.  C.  J.,  in  450  C.  E. 
Mut.ara,  No.  6:2:^  ^  held  that  the  decree  for  sale  which  is 
to  be  final  and  conclusive  is  the  certificate  under  the  hand 
of  the  Judge  that  the  property  has  been  sold  under  the 
order  of  the  Court.  The  same  view  ^\ as  adopted  obiter  by 
Sir  Joseph  Hutchinson,  C.  J.,  and  Middleton,  J.,  in  CuUti- 
rinahamy  v.  Bahaliannj  '  the  decision  that  finally  settled 
(he  controversy  as  to  whether  the  decree  for  partition  men- 
tioned in  Section  9  of  the  partition  Ordinance,  1803  was 
the  decree  referi'ed  to  in  Section  4,  or  the  final  judgment 
spoken  of  in  Section  (i,  of  that  Ordinance.  The  view  taken  * 
by  the  Judges  who  decided  the  case  of  Oatliirinahamy  v. 
Bahaliamy  ^  seems  to  have  been  that,  if  the  decree  under 
Section  9  of  the  Partition  Ordinance,  18Gi5,  is  the  final 
judgment  in  the  partition  action,  it  must  follow  as  a  neces- 
sary inference  that  the  decree  for  sale  under  the  same  sec-, 
tion  is  the  last  step  in  the  proceedings,  namely,  the  issue  of 
the  certificate  of  the  Court.  The  fallacy,  as  I  venture  to 
think  it  of  this  reasoning  had  been  pointed  out  by  antici- 
pation by  Sir  Charles  Layard,  C.  J.,  in  Ijouis  Appuhamy  v. 
PuncJii  Baba  ^  to  which  the  attention  of  the  Courc  does 
not  seem  to  have  been  called.  Qathirinahamy  v.  Babuhuiiu/ 
was  treated  as  aii  authority  binding  upon  them  by 
Benches  of  two  Judges  in  Bandaraiiailce  v,  JJun'/oranuike* 
and  I'eirrd    \.  Aids  '  . 

Now,  however,  that  the  question  has  been  formally 
raised  before  a  Bench  of  three  Judges  I  have  no  hesitation 
in  holding  that  the  older  authorities    ought   to   be  followed. 

(1)     (190-i)  ION.  L.  R.  196.  (2)     (lS'9',0  Koch  13. 

00     (I'.tOS)  11.  N.  L.  R.  20.  4.     (1908)  11  N.  L.  R.  18,3. 

;■).     (191.0  17  N.  L.  R.  1;m. 
Vol.  IV. 


Shaw,  J. 


Bandara  We  are  iiot  Concerned  here  with  the  policy  of  the  law, 
sinno^  Baba  although  I  may  say  in  passinR  that  I  think  that  the  right  of 
iiatervention  under  the  Partition  Ordinance,  1863,  so 
far  from  being  extended  should  be  peremptorily  barred  in 
Courts  of  iirst  instance  on  the  expiry  of  a  prescribed  period 
after  the  interlocutory  decree  and  could  be  so  barred  with 
safety  provided  always  that  due  provision  was  made  for 
securing  greater  publicity  to  partition  proceedings.  All 
that  we  have  to  do  at  present,  however,  is  to  construe  the 
ordinance  itself.  I  do  not  see  how  the  certificate  of  title  can 
be  regarded  as  the  decree  for  sale  to  which  Section  9  refers. 
That  it  is  not  so  is  clear  from  the  language  of  Section  8 
which  speaks  of  the  certificate  under  the  hand  of  the  Judge 
that  the  property  has  been  sold  '  under  the  order  '  of  the 
Court.  This  enactment  clearly  draws  a  distinction  between 
the  certificate  of  title  and  the  decree  or  order  for  sale. 

I  would  answer  the  question  referred  to  us  in  the 
same  sense  as  my  brothers,  and  I  concur  with  the  order 
which  they  have  proposed. 

Shaw  J. 

This  case  raises  the  question  what  is  the  conclusive 
decree  within  the  meaning  of  section  9  of  the  Partition 
Ordinance  1863  in  the  case  where  the  Court  has  directed 
the  sale  of  the  property. 

In  Luuis  Apimhamy  v.  Punchi  Baba  '  following  D.  C. 
Cy?o;«?yo  11 717- it  was  held  that  the  decree  for  sale  is  the  con- 
clusive decree,  and  opinion  to  the  same  effect  was  expressed 
in  Don  Mathes  Appuhamy  v.  Don  James  de  Silva  Wtjesiri- 
ivardena  ' . 

In  the  more  recent  cases  450  C.  R.  Mataixi  622  *  OatJie- 
rinahamy  v.  Bahahamy  ^  Bandaranaike  v.  Bandara- 
naike.  '^    andPerem     v.    Ahvis  '    the     Court    appears    to 

(1)    ION.  L.  R.  196,  (2)     S.  C.  M.  August  4th  1904. 

3      5S.C.C.181.  (4)    Koch's  R.  13 

(5)     11.  N.  L.  R.  20.  6.  11  N  L  R  18.')  ^7)     17.  N.  L  R  135 
Yol.  IV. 


have     thought    that     the    conclusive      decree    was      not      Bandava 
the  order  for  sale  but  the  confirmation  of  the  sale.  sinnoBata 

de  Sampayo,  J, 

In  my  opinion  the  earlier  decisions  are  correct  and  the 
order  for  sale  is  the  conclusive  decree.  It  is  impossible 
without  doing  violence  to  the  provisions  of  the  Ordinance 
to  read  the  words  'decree  for  sale'  used  in  section  9  to  mean 
the  confirmation  of  the  sale.  The  order  for  sale  is  the 
order  finally  settling  the  rights  of  the  parties  to  the  suit 
and  the  confirmation  of  the  sale  is  a  purely  formal  act 
afl'ecting  the  purchaser  only,  analagous  to  obtaining  a 
Fiscal's  transfer  in  the  case  of  an  oi-dinary  execution,  and 
affecting  the  purchaser's  title  only, 

I  would  allow  the  appeal  with  costs. 
de  Sampayo,  J. 

I  am  of  the  same  opinion.  With  regard  to  my  judg- 
ment in  Perera  v.  A  Ivis  ^  I  need  only  say  that,  as  I  there 
stated,  I  considered  myself  bound  by  the  decision  Gatheri. 
nahamy  v.  Babahamy  ^ ,  My  own  view  as  to  what  is 
the  final  and  conclusive  decree  in  the  event  of  a  sale  under 
the  Partition  Ordinance  was  indicated  in  the  earlier  case 
Abdul  Ally  v.  Kelaart  ^  which  was  approved  of  in  Louis 
Appuhamy  v.  Punchi  Baba  * .  Now  that  the  whole  question 
has  come  before  us  I  have  no  hesitation  in  giving  effect  to 
that  view  and  in  agreeing  witn  the  rest  of  the  Court  that, 
on  the  true  coustruction  of  the  Ordinance,  the  decree  for 
sale  to  which  a  conclusive  effect  is  given  by  section  9,  is  the 
decree  under  section  4.  by  which  the  title  of  the  parties  is 
ascertained  and  the  property  is  ordered  to  be  sold. 

This  being  so,  the  respondents  to  this  appeal,  who 
intervened  after  the  order  for  sale  had  been  made  and  the 
sale  had  been  carried  out,  and  claimed  a  right  of  way  over 
the  land,  were  too  late  and  are  concluded  by  the  previous 
decree.     I   would  set  aside   so   much   of   the  order  of  the 


(1)    17  N.  L.  R.  135. 
(3)    (1904)  1.  Bala:  40. 

(2)    UN.  L.  R.  20. 
(4)    lON.L.  R.  196, 

Vol.  IV. 

aG 


Dislricl  Jaclgo  nndcr  apjioal  as  allows  tho  path  claimed  l)y 
the  respondents  and  awards  (hem  costs.  The  vesponch'nts 
should  I  think  pay  to  the  Plaintiff  the  costs  of  the  inter- 
vention in  the  Court  below  and  of  this  appeal. 

Proctor  for  appellant-  Wilfred  Gunesekere. 

Proctor  for  respondent-D.  S.  Weeresinghi 


me. 


BURAH     V.     ALIM     8A, 

P.  C.  Matale  45'2(;. 

Presrnf:     Wood  Renton,  C.  J.  &  de  Sampayo,  J. 

25th  January,  1916. 

Ciicoa  T/ipf/s  Prerentiun  OrJiimiiee,  So.  S  of  1904,  Sect.  4,  .5,  .v,  11,  12, 
10 — Purchase  by  agent  of  licenced  ilealei — special  permit  uitder  Sect.  5  (5). 

Where  the  accuset',  ts  agent  cf  a  licen  ed  dealer  in  cocoa  mide  an 
cffer  en  behalf  of  his  principal  which  the  Sf  Her  accepte  ',  and  where  the 
iooount  was  subsequently  rendered  to  the  principal  by  the  seller  and 
was  settled, 

liclil,  that  the  transaction  amounted  to  a  '  purchase  '  of  cocoa  by 
an  unlicensed  person  within  the  meaning  of  the  Ordinance  and  the 
accused  was  rightly  convicted. 

A  licensed  person  cannob  legally  eff.ct  purchases  of  cocoa  by  an 
unlicensed  agent. 

One  licensed  dea'.er  cannot  purchase  cocoa  at  the  premises  of 
another  -without  the  special  permit  provided  for  in  section  5  (5). 

631  P,  C.  Matale  4582,  (S.  0.  M.  2Cth  October  1915)  dissented  from; 
P.  C.  Matale  4708,  (S.  0.  M.  21  December  1915)  followed. 
Hmjle  V.  mtchman,  (1879)  4  Q.  B.  D.  283  referred  to, 
Baiva,  K.  G.  and  Drieberg  for  accused  appellant, 
Garvin,  S.  G.  and  Fernando.  C.  C.  for  the  Crown. 
Wood  Renton,  C.  J. 

This  appeal  came  befoi-e  mo  in  the  first  instance  alone, 
and,  as  the  point  involved  in  it  is  one  of  considerable 
difficulty  and  importance,  I  referred  it  to  a  Bench  of  two 
Vol.  IV. 


57 

Judges.  The  appellant  was  charged  Avith,  and  has  been  Bmaii  v.  AUm 
convicted  of,  an  oflBenee  under  section  4  of  the  Cacao  Thefts  WooJ  Renion, 
Prevention  Ordinance  1904  ^  ,  which  prohibits  the  pur-  sampayo,  j. 
chase  of  cocoa  by  unlicensed  persons.  The  evidence  shows 
that,  acting  as  the  agent  of  Mr.  Victoria,  a  licensed  dealer  in 
cocoa  in  Matale,  the  appellant  made  an  offer  to  Mr.  Miller, 
the  Superintendent  of  Wiltshire  Estate,  which  the  latter 
accepted,  to  purchase  a  certain  quantity  of  cocoa.  Mr- 
Miller  was  aware  that  this  purchase  wns  being  effected  on 
Mr.  Victoria's  behalf.  The  account  for  the  cocoa  was 
rendered  to  Mr.  Victoria  and  was  paid  for  by  him.  Neither 
Mr,  Miller  nor  the  appellant  has  any  license  to  deal  in 
cocoa.  The  question  that  arises  for  decisi  m  is  whether  a 
transac'ion,  such  as  I  have  described,  is  a  "  purchase  "  of 
cocoa  by  an  unlicensed  person  within  the  meaning  of  the 
Ordinance  of  1904  ;  or,  in  other  words,  whether  a  licensed 
person  can  legally  effect  purchases  of  cocoa  by  an  un- 
licensed agent.  That  question  has  to  be  answered  with 
reference  to,  the  provisions  of  the  enactment  as  a  whole- 
The  appellant's  counsel  referred  us  to  a  series  of  decisions 
under  the  English  Licensing  Acts,  dealing  with  the 
doctrine  of  agency  in  its  application  to  the  sale  of  intoxi- 
cating liquor,  and  counsel  for  the  Crown  relied  upon  a 
body  of  similar  authorities  under  the  English  Sale  of  Food 
and  Drugs  Act  1875,  and  Pharmacy  acts.  The  cases  under 
these  enactments,  however,  assists  us  for  the  most  part  only 
by  their  clear  enunciation  of  the  principle  that  for  the 
purpose  of  arriving  at  a  solution  of  such  a  problem  as  we 
have  here  to  deal  with,  each  enactment  has  to  be  inter- 
preted in  the  light  of  its  own  provisions. 

After  careful  consideration,  I  have  come  to  the  con- 
clusion that  the  appellant  has  been  rightly  convicted  under 
section  4  of  the  Cocoa  Thefts  Prevention  Ordinance,  1904 
and  that   under    that     Ordinance  a     licensed    dealer    in 

(1)     No.8ofa904. 
Vol,  IV. 


58 

Bi.rahT.Aiim  cocoa  is  not  at  liberty  to  effect  his  purchases  through 
Wo.d1r«t.n,  unlicensed  agents.  On  this  point  I  am  unable  to  agree 
sii^"!  with  the  decision  of  Ennis  J.  in  6S1.  P.  C.  Matale  No.  4.582i 
It  is  no  doubt  true  that  as  a  matter  of  contract  the 
purchase  of  cocoa  here  in  question  was  made  n  it 
by  the  appellant  but  by  Mr.  Victoria  but  in 
another  case  ^  I  have  ventured  to  express  the 
opinion  that  the  term  "purchase,"  in  section  4  of  the 
Ordinance  ot  1904  should  be  interpreted  ia  its  popular  sense 
without  reference  to  the  rules  laid  down  by  the  sale  of 
goods  Ordi(jance,  1896  '  in  order  to  ascertain  the  civil 
rights  and  liabilities  of  parties  to  an  ordinary  contract  of 
sale,  and  that,  where  there  is  a  consensus  ad  idem  in  regard 
to  the  res  and  the  merx,  there  is  a  purchase  within  the 
meaning  of  that  section.  Applying  the  principle  of  that 
decision  to  the  present  case,  I  think  that  there  may  be 
foi  the  purposes  of  the  Cocoa  Thefts  Prevention  Ordinance 
1904,  a  '  purchase  '  by  an  agent  even  although  the  real 
purchaser  in  the  eye  of  the  civii  law  is  his  principal.  I 
may  refer  in  this  connection  to  the  case  of  Hoyle  v.  Hiicli- 
man  ''  in  which  it  was  held  that  where  an  article  of  foo  .1, 
which  was  not  of  the  nature,  substance  and  quality  of  the 
article  demanded,  was  sold  to  an  inspector  of  nuisances, 
who  was  merely  an  employee  of  a  local  authority  and  who 
bought  the  article  with  money  belonging  to  the  local 
authority  by  which  he  was  employed^  there  was  a 
sale  "to  the  prejudice  of  the  purchaser"  wiihin. 
the  meaning  of  the  sale  of  food  and  Drugs  Act,  1875, ''  The 
objects  of  the  Ordinance  of  1904  was  to  prevent  these  petty 
thefts  of  cocoa  which  in  their  cumulative  effect  are   produc- 

(1)     S.  C.  M.  26th  October,  1915. 
(2;    P.  C.  Matale  No.  4708. 
B.  C.  M.  21st  December,  1915.  (3)     No.  11  of  1896. 

(4)    (1879)  4.  Q.  B.  D.  233.     (5)  38  and  39Vict.  0.  63.  S.  6. 
Vol.  IV. 


59 

tive  of  so  much  mischief  in  this,  country.  The  Ordinance  Burahv.  Aiim 
was  made  applicable  in  tli*  first  instance  not  to  the  colony  wood  Rraton, 
as  a  whole  but  to  those  aistricts  villages  or  parts  of  the  &i,i°/o,'j 
Island  only  in  which  it  was  proclaimed  and  its  provisions 
have  in  fact  been  applied  in  a  careful  and  tentative  manner. 
The  legislature  has  placed  no  restrictions  on  the  sale  of  cacao 
by  licensed  dealers  to  unlicensed  purchasers.  But  the 
Ordinance  is  clearly  based  on  the  assumption  that  the  pur- 
chase of  cacao  by  licensed  dealers  would  ordinarily  be 
effected  at  their  licensed  premises.  It  is  only  where  a 
licensed  dealer  has  obtained  under  section  5.  (5)  of  the 
Ordinance  a  special  license  on  that  behalf,  which  the 
Government  Agent  has  a  discretion  to  grant  or  to  refuse, 
that  he  is  entitled  to  purchase  ca  ?ao  at  any  place  other  than 
his  own  licensed  premises.  It  is  unnecessary  for  the  pur_ 
poses  of  this  case  to  decide  the  point,  but  as  at  present 
advised  T  am  noE  prepared  to  accept  the  view  suggested  in 
631  P.  0.  Matale  No.  4562  ^  that  the  omission  of 
the  word  '  his '  in  section  I.  sub  aeetion  1.  (a)  of  the 
Ordinance  in  the  clause  '  other  than  licensed  pre- 
mises'  enables  one  licenced  dealer  to  purchase  cocoa  at  the 
premises  of  another  withoat  the  special  permit  provided  for 
in  section  5.  (5).  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  to  interpret 
the  law  in  that  sense  would  to  a  great  extent  stultify  the 
provisions  of  sections  11  and  16  as  to  the  ingpection  of 
licensed  premises.  The  prohibition  in  s  .-ction  4.  of  the 
purcha;e  of  cocoa  by  any  unlicensed  person  is  as  wide  and 
as  peremptory  as  it  could  well  be  made.  Section  8  and  12 
make  special  provision  for  the  case  of  partners,  enabling 
them  to  deal  in  cocoa  under  a  single  license  but  rendering 
each  member  of  the  firm  liable  for  the  acts  or  omissions  of 
his  co-partners,  unless  he  is  able  to  supply  affirmative  proof 
of  his  innocence.     I  cannot  believe  that  an  enactment  of 

(1)     S.  C.  M.  26th  Oct.  1915, 

Vol.  IV. 


Enroll  V,  Alini 

Sa 
Wood  RentoD, 


CO 

tins  kind  wooia  have  found  its  place  in  the  Ordinance  if 
the  i.itention  of  the  legislature  had  been  to  leave  every 
%£,^ii  lie  nsed  d,  aler  free  to  employ  as  many  agents  as  he  chose, 
and  to  make  the  liability  of  those  agents  for  theif  conduct 
dependent  only  on  th  )  Ordinary  Civil  law.  Moreover,  Sec- 
tion 9  sub-Section  1.  (b)  present?,  in  my  opinion,  an  in. 
super.ible  obstacle  in  the  way  of  the  success  of  this  appeal. 
It  provides  that. 

"It  shdl  be  nnlawfal  for  any  license  1  dealer  to  pur- 
chase or  to  take  ilelivery  of  coco.i  from  any  person  who  i^ 
not  pers  nally  known  to  him,  or  from  any  person  whom  be 
.knows  or  hag  reas  .nable  grounds  for  be'ieving  is  under  the 
age  of  twelve  years,  or  from  any  estate  labourer" 

This  enactment  clearly  contemplates  the  personal  pur- 
chase of  cocoa  by  licensed  dealer.  It  is  absurd  to  suppose 
that  the  Legislature  could  have  intended  to  authorise  such  a 
dealer  to  engage  the  services  of  as  many  agents  as  he  desired 
and  at  the  same  time  to  impose  upon  this  facility  a  res- 
triction which  w  luld  render  it  futile,  namely,  that  each  of 
thnse  agents  should  be  in  a  position  to  say  whether  every 
would  be  vendo  ■  was  or  was  not  personally  known  to  his 
employer. 

I  am  not  gready  impressed  with  the  argument,  which 
was  urged  upon  us  in  appea',  that  if  we  interpret  Section  4 
of  the  Cacao  Thefts  Prevention  Ordinance,  1904  in  the 
sense  above  indicated,  a  licensed  d  aler  will  be  unable  not 
only  to  effect  pnrchas  s,  which  he  himself  has  directly 
made,  through  a  servant,  but  even  to  employ  his  servant  for 
subsidiary  and  wholly  innocent  purpjses,  such  as  the 
entry  of  the  delivery  of  cocoa  at  his  licensed  premises  or  its 
removal  there  from.  The  question  in  each  case  will  have 
to  be  determined  whether  there  has  been  a  'purchase'  by  the 
agent  in  the  sense  which  I  have  endeavoured  to  explain 
above,  and  there  is  nothing  in  this  decision  that  can  prevent 
the  employment  of  the  servants  of  the  licensed  dealer  in  any 

Vol.  IV. 


61 

form  of  service  wliich  the  Legislature  has  not  either  ex- 
pressly or  by  necessary  implication  prohibited.  I  am  ghd 
to  be  able  to  arrive  at  this  solution  of  the  difficulty  before 
us,  because  I  feel  that  to  interpret  tlie  Cacao  TheCts  Pre- 
vention Ordinance  in  any  other  sense  would  be  to 
reduce  its  provisions  to  a  nullity.  I  would  affirm  the  con- 
viction, but  as  the  case  is  practically  a  test  one,  and  as  there 
is  no  suggestion  that  Mr.  Victoria  acted  in  this  matter  other- 
wise than  in  good  faith,  I  would  reduce  the  sentence  to  a 
fine  of  Rs.  20/-. 

Proctor  for  appellant — C.  Ariyanayagam . 


De  ZYLVA  v.  WILLIAM  SINQHO. 

No.  5484  P.  C.  Gampola 

Present  -.  Pereira  &  Ennis,  J.  J, 

5th  October  1914. 

E.cchr  Ordinano;  No.  S  of  1912 — E.vi-i.ir  Officpt — Power  of  search 
wUIiout  a  search  warrant -recordhuj  grounds  of  belief  muler  Section  36 
of  S-vcise  Ordinance. 

In  every  case  of  a  search  by  an  Exc'se  Officir  under  Section  36  of 
the  Fxci-e  Ordinance  without  a  search  v^arraat  it  must  be  afflrmatively 
eatabliahed  by  him  in  evideuoe  that  before  makiog  the  search  he  made 
the  record  reqairid  by  thit  section. 

It  is  that  record  that  ves's  in  an  Excise  Officer  the  authority  to 
earch 

In  a  case  of  obstructing  a  public  servant  in  the  execution  of  his  duty 
it  is  essential  that  it  should  be  proved  beyoid  doubt  th  t  the  public 
servant  had  pr  per  legal  authority  to  de  the  act  in  th  j  doing  of  which  he 
was  obstructed. 

F.  J.  de  Saram  for  appellant. — Under  section  36  of 
the  Excise  Ordinance  the  Excise  Officer  should  have  record- 
ed the  grounds  of  his  belief  with  regard  to  the  commission 
of  an  offence  under  section  43  or  section  44  before  entering 
upon  the  search.  There  is  no  proof  here  that  such  record 
Vol.  IV 


62 

DeZiivav.  lias  bceu  made.  He  had  no  authority  to  search  without 
pTrriw^JE-Sh!  previously  making  that  record  Ashcm  UllahKhan  Bahadur 
'•'•  V.  Trilochan  Bacjche^ .  Queen  Empress  v.  Kallian^  .  It 
is  the  record  that  invests  him  with  authority  to  search 
without  a  search  warrant.  Under  section  183  of  the  Penal 
Code  it  should  be  strictly  proved  that  the  public  servant 
had  proper  legal  authority  to  do  the  act  in  the  doing  of 
which  he  was  obstructed  Deen  Assen  v  Silva.  ^ 

Oheyesekere  C.  C.  for  respondent.— It  mast  be  presumed 
that  all  official  acts  have  been  doae  properly.  Section  114 
of  the  evidence  act  applies.  [Perera  J.  section  114  says 
"may  presume."  The  mere  fact  that  the  complainant 
was  an  Excise  Oflicer  does  not  vest  him  with  the  power  to 
make  search ;  something  more  must  be  done — a 
memorandum  under  section  36.]  In  the  case  of  a  Police 
Officer  there  may  be  a  presumption.  It  would  appear  that 
this  presumption  arises  in  favour  of  all  official  acts. 
Gvnesekere  v.  Teheris  ;  The  Municipality  v.  Sholapiur 
Spinning  and  Weaving  Company.^ 

Pereira,  J.  In  this  case  the  1st  accused  has  been  con 
victed  under  Section  183  of  the  Penal  Code  of  voluntarily 
obstructing  a  public  officer,  to  wit  Excise  Inspector  de  Zilva 
in  the  discharge  of  his  public  functions  and  2nd  accused, 
under  the  same  section,  with  voluntarily  obstruc'ing  Police 
constable  Ekanaike  while  acting  under  the  lawful  orders  of 
the  Excise  Inspector  de  Zilva  in  the  discharge  of  his  public 
functions.  It  appears  that  the  Excise  Inspector  received 
information  that  arrack  was  being  illicitly  sold  in  the  house 
of  the  1st  accused,  and  therefore  "he  made  a  raid,"  as  he 
says,  on  that  house  with  the  assistance  of  police  constable 
Ekanaike  and  others.     He  seized  the  1st  accused  while  sel- 

1.     (1886)     8  Cal.    1197       2.     (1896)     19  All.  310 
3.    (1887)     6Tam61  4.     (1907)     ION.  L^R.  18 

5.    (1895)  20  Bora  732 
Vol.  IV 


ling  arrack,  and  then  made  up  his  mind  to  search  the  house 

,1  '       DeZilraV. 

His  own  words   are  —  I   seized  the   arraclj  as  it  was  being  wuiiam  smgho 

Pereira  and  Eunis, 

sold,    and   then    I    said    I    must  search  the  house."     In  the  J- 

course  of  the  search,  or  sometime  after,  he  and  the  Police 
Constable  were  beaten  by  the  accused,  and  he^nce  this 
charge.  Now  in  a  case  of  obstructing  a  public  servant  in 
the  execution  of  his  duty,  it  is  essential  that  it  should  be 
proved  beyond  doubt  that  the  public  servant  had  proper 
legal  authority  to  do  the  act  in  the  doing  of  which  he  was 
obstructed.  Assuming  for  the  sake  of  argament  that  the 
Excise  Inspector  had  full  authority  to  search  the  1st  accus- 
ed's house,  can  it  be  said  that  Police  Constable  Ekanaike 
was  acting  under  his  lawful  order  ?  There  is  nothing  to 
shew  that  the  Excise  Inspector  had  any  right  to  give  any 
orders  to  the  Police  Constable  to  search  any  house  at  all. 
The  fact  however,  that  the  Excise  Inspector  had  no  such 
right  did  not  imply  that  he  could  not  legdUy  enlist  the  ser- 
vices of  the  Police  Constable  to  search  the  house,  provided 
of  course  that  he  himself  had  proper  authority  to  search. 
But  then  the  obstruction  of  the  Police  Constable  would  be 
tantamount  to  obstruction  of  the  Excise  Inspector  himself, 
and  the  conviction  of  the  2nd  accused  with  having  obstruc- 
ted the  Police  Constable  when  a.. ting  under  the  lawful 
orders  of  the  Excise  Inspector  cannot  be  supported. 

It  has  not  been  contested  that  an  Excise  Inspector  is  a 
public  servant  and  that  voluutarily  obstructing  him  in  the 
discharge  of  his  public  functions  would  be  an  offence  un- 
der section  183  of  the  Penal  Code.  The  main  question  in  the 
case  is  whether  the  Excise  Inspector  had  lawful  authority  to 
search  the  1st  accused's  house.  Power  of  search  is  given  to 
him  under  Section  36  of  the  Excise  Ordinance  No.  8  of  1912, 
What  that  section  enacts  [omitting  immaterial  portions]  is 
thet  when  an  Excise  Officer  has  reason  to  believe  that  an 
oflfence  under  Section  13  or  11  of  the  Ordinance  has  been, 
is  being  or  is  likely  to   be  committed  ;    and  that  a  search 

Vol.  IV. 


64 

be  ziiva  V.  warrant  cannot  be  obtained  without  affordiHg  the  offender 
?Jt^rilnii£S  an  opportunity  of  escape  or  of  concealing  evidence  of  the 
'''  offence,  he  may,  after  recording  the  grounds  of  his  belief, 
enter  and  search  any  place  &c.  There  is  no  evidence  what- 
ever in  this  case  that  the  Excise  Inspector  made  the  record 
required  by  tliis  section.  Crown  Counsel  argued  that 
under  Section  114  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance  the  Court 
should  presume  that  such  a  record  was  made,  because  that 
section  enacts  that  the  Court  mai/  presume  that  judicial  and 
official  acts  have  been  regularly  performed.  This,  if  I 
might  say  so,  is  tantamount  to  begging  the  question.  It 
assumes  that  the  act  of  search  was  an  official  act.  It  d  les 
not  become  so  until  the  record  referred  to  has  been  made. 
Itisthatrecord  that  vests  in  an  Excise  Officer  the  authority  in 
that  direction  more  than  any  ordinary  individual.  I  think  that 
in  every  case  of  search  by  an  Excise  Inspector,  compliance 
by  him  with  the  requirements  of  Section  36  should  be 
affirmatively  established  by  him  in  evidence. 

Moreover,  in  this  particular  case,  the  facts  cited  above 
as  having  been  sworn  to  by  the  Excise  Inspector  himself 
render  it  unlikely  that  he  made  the  necessary  record,  and 
assuming  that  Section  114  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance  ap. 
plied  I  should  not  be  prepared  to  presume  anything  under 
that  section. 

For  the  reason  given  above  I  should  set  aside  the  con- 
viction and  acquit  the  accused. 

Ennis,  J.  I  agree.— The  evidence  given  by  the  Excise 
Inspf  ctor  precludes  the  Couit  from  drawing  the  presumption 
contemplated  in  Section  114  of  the   Evidence  Ordinance. 

Proctor  for  appellant— £'.  G.  Junklaas. 


Vol.  IV. 


65 

BARONCHI    APPU     v.    SIYADORIS    APPU. 

No.  21186  C.  R.   Negombo, 

Present:    Pereira,  J, 

13th  July  1914. 

Paulian  Action — open  to  any  creditor — grantor  necessary  party. 

A  Paulian  A.ctioii  is  open  not  only  to  creditor  wbo  has  obtained  a 
decree  in  his  favour  but  to  any  persoa  who  can  establish  to  the  s^ti:^- 
faction  of  the  Court  that  he  was  a  creditor  at  the  time  of  the  execution 
of  the  fraudulent  deed. 

The  gr<k'.tor  on  the  fraudulent  deed  is  a  necessary  patty  to  the 
Paulian  action  even  where  the  deed  is  a  donation  and  not  one  for 
valuable  consideration. 

E.  A,  L.  Wijewa/dene  tor  plaintiflE  appellant. — The 
Paulian  action  is  open  to  all  creditors  to  whose  pre- 
judice things  have  been  fraudulently  obtained.  De  Vos 
Translation  of  Voet  p  2.)  It  is  not  necessary 
that  the  creditor  should  have  obtained  a  judgment 
against  the  debtor  [Pereira  J.  Can  you  uiaiiitain  this 
action  without  making  the  donor  of  the  deed  a  party  to  the 
action?]  Yes,  being  a  deed  of  donation  the  grantor  is  not 
a  necessary  party.  He  cannot  be  affected  by  a  declaration 
that  the  deed  is  fraudulent.  [Pereira  J.  Gopalsamy  v. 
EamasamypuUe  ^  is  against  you].  That  authority  does  not 
apply  to  the  facts  of  the  present  case.  In  the  case  of  a 
transfer  the  transferor  is  interested  in  a  Paulian  action 
brought  to  set  aside  the  deed,  for  if  the  deed  is  cancelled, 
the  transferee  may  sue  the  transferor  for  a  refund  of  the 
purchase  money.  Bat  in  case  of  a  donation  no  such  action 
againsf  the  donor  can  arise  and  therefore  the  donor  need 
not  be  made  a  party. 

De  Zoysa  for  defendant  respondent. — The  donor  must 
be  made  a  party  to  the  Paulian  action.  He  is  interested  in 
the  question  of  fraud  alleged  against  him  and  he  should 
have  an  opportunity  to  defend  himself  against  such  alle- 
gations. OopaJsn-mij  v.  Uamd^aniijiniJIp} 

1.    11  N.  L.  H.  :-'.:i.s 
Vol.  lY 


66 

Woiiow   Apup  Pereira     J— I    do   not   agree   with  the  Commissioner 

siyadoril''  Appu.  when  he  says  that  it  is  only  a  creditor  who  haa  obtained  a 
Pereira  J.  jggj.gg  j^  j^jg  favour  who  Call  bring  a  Pan  Han  miction  to  have 
a  fraudulent  deed  set  aside.  I  think  that  the  action  is 
open  to  any  person  who  can  establish  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the  Court  that  he  was  a  creditor  at  the  time  of  the  execution 
of  the  deed.  Nor  do  I  agree  with  the  Commissioner  when 
he  says  that  the  grantor  on  the  fraudulent  deed  is  not  a  ne- 
cessary party  to  the  action  where  the  deed  is  a  donation  and 
not  one  for  vjluable  consideration.  It  is  the  mere  con- 
demnation of  the  act  as  fraudulent  rather  than  the  prospect 
of  throwing  pecuniary  liability  on  the  shoulders  of  the  per-, 
sons  that  weighs  on  the  determination  of  the  question  as  to 
who  should  be  made  parties  to  a  Paulian  Action.  In  the 
case  of  Gopcdsamy  v.  ItamasamypuUe  ^  this  Court  held  as 
follows. — The  Paulian  Action  lies  for  "the  revocation  of 
whatever  has  been  alienated  in  Jraudem  creditorum  and  it 
follows  that  when  an  alienation  of  the  kind  is  attacked  both 
the  gvdntor  and  grantee  should  have  an  opportunity  to  de- 
fend it."  In  the  present  case  there  is  no  allegation  of  fraud 
against  the  defendents.  Tlie  allegation  of  fraud  in  the 
plaint  is  altogether  against  the  grantor  on  the  impeached 
deed,  namely,  Thambegalage  Issan  Appoo.  Fraud  on  the 
part  uf  the  grantor  uloiie  is,  in  certain  circumstances,  suffi- 
cient to  support  a  Paulinn  Action,  but  in  any  case,  the 
grantor  or  his  legal  representative  should  be  a  party  to  the 
action  ;  otherwise,  it  is  wrongly  constituted.  On  that  ground 
I  dismiss  the  present  appeal  with  costs.  I,  however,  re- 
serve the  right  to  the  plaintiff  to  institute  another  and  more 
correctly  constituted  action  if  so  advised. 

Proc'.or  foi'  respondent— Z.*.  J.  S.  Guoneiintrh'/w. 
Proctor  for  appellant.— (/r  Silvu  A-  Perera. 


1.     11   N.  L.  P.  3;]8. 
Vol.  IV 


67 
LABUXA  V.  SUWADA. 
No.  ^707  P.  C.  Colombo  (Itg.) 
Present  :     Pereira  J. 

22nd  September  1914. 

Police  Ordinance  Ko  IS  of  1865  Section  54— false  charge  to  ths 
Police — complaint  not  prosecuted  by  the  comjilaiiiant  in  the  Police 
Court — uyi-eliaMe    evidence. 

The  fact  that  a  Magistrate  is  unable  to  place  re  imce  on  the  evidence 
called  by  the  c  )mplainint  ia  not  a  sufficient  grou  id  for  inflicting  a  fi  .e 
under  Section  54  of  the  Police  Ordinance  for  bringing  a  false  and 
frivolous  charg-e. 

Samarakkody  for  appellant. 

Pereira  J — I  doubt  very  much,  that  summary  pro- 
ceedings such  as  those  taken  by  the  Magistrate  can  l)e  tiken 
in  respect  of  the  acts  mentioned  in  Section  54  of  the  Police 
Oi-dinance  except  where  a  complaint  is  made  to  the  Police 
and  is  further  prosecuted  by  the  person  making  the  com- 
plaint and  the  Magistrate  after  trial  of  the  charge  finds  that 
there  were  no  sufficient  grounds  for  making  the  charge. 

This  is  an  appeal  from  an  order  of  the  Magistrate  award- 
ing fine  and  imprisonment  to  the  appellant  whom  the  Magis- 
trate calls  the  "  complainant  "  for,  as  the  Magistrate  says. 
"  bringing  the  false  charge.  "  The  appellant  brought  no 
charge  before  the  Police  '^ourf  The  proceedings  commenced 
not  on  a  complaint  under  section  148  (la)  of  the  Criminal 
Procedure  Code  but  on  a  written  report  by  a  Police  Officer 
under  section  148  (1-b),  and  I  presume  that  what  the 
Magistrate  means  is  that  the  appellant  is  punished  for 
making  a  false  charge  to  the  police.  I  doubt  very  much 
that  summary  proceedings  such  as  those  taken  by  the 
Magistrate  can  be  taken  in  respect  of  the  acts  mentioned 
in  section  54  of  the  Police  Ordinance  except  where  a  com- 
plaint is  made  to  tlie  Police  and  is  i'urther  prosefuted  by  the 
person  making  tlie  complaint,  and  the  Magistrate  after 
trial  of  the  charge  finds  that  there  were  no  sufficient  gi-onnds 

Vol.  IV. 


68 

Laouua  T.  for  making  the  charge.  Except  in  such  a  case,  I  fail  to  see 
PeS,  J.  how  the  matter  could  come  before  a  Magistrate  at  all,  and  it 
seems  to  me  that  in  all  the  other  cases  mentioned  in  the 
section  the  proper  course  would  be  a  formal  prosecution  ol 
the  complainant  or  informant  who  had  made  the  complaint 
or  given  information  to  the  Police.  I  need  not  however 
decide  this  question  because  it  seems  to  me  to  be  clear  that 
this  is  not  a  case  in  which  it  can  be  fairly  said  that  the 
appellant  made  a  false  charge  to  the  Police.  The  Police  had 
charge  of  the  proseoLition,  and  presumably  the  appellant  had 
no  voice  in  the  matter  of  the  witnesses  to  be  called.  More- 
over, the  evidence  is  all  one  way,  and  the  accused  have  not 
contradicted  on  oath  the  charge  against  them  made  by  the 
appellant.  As  held  by  my  brother  Ennis  in  case  No.  1888 
of  the  Police  Court  (Itinerating)  of  Colombo  [See  S.  C. 
Civil  Minutes  7th  October  1913]"  the  fact  that  the  Magis- 
"trate  was  unable  to  place  reliance  on  the  evidence  called  is 
"not  a  sufficient  ground  for  inflicting  a  fine  under  Sec  : 
"54  for  bringing  a  false  and  frivolous  charge." 

I  set  aside  the  order  appealed  from. 

set  aside. 


""•-♦-•- 


FERNANDO     V.    PERERA        et  al. 
Muttucarpen  QheiiY— Appellant. 

V. 

Ramanathen    Ghetiy— Respondent. 
C.  R.  Negombo  No.  21444. 
Present  :    de  Sampayo  J. 
16th  February  1916. 

Concurrence— notice,     meaning   of—AppUcafion  for    refund  after  pay- 
ment--Qiml  Procedure  Code  section  350, 

Vol.  IV. 


FeiiiiUido 


69 

The  provisions  of  section  350  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  have  regard 

to  the  proceeds  of  a  particular  executi  .n,  and,  in    no  way,    justify  the    ,     Po'-'a- 
.,.,,.  ^  at   SiunpB7o-  J. 

Idea  that  a  claim  to  one  fund  standi  good  in  respect  of   all   funds 

realized  by  execution  in  the  same  case  at  any  time  thereaftar   and  under 

entirely  different  ciroumstancei". 

The  notice  contemplated  by  section  350  is  not  a  mere  notice  that 
the  party  hia  obtained  a  decree  again  it  the  same  judgment -debtor  bat 
a  notice  of  a  claim  to  the  money  in  Court. 

When  the  money  has  gone  home  to  a  creditor  by  actual  payment 
it  is  too  late  for  another  creditor  to  ask  for  a  refund. 

G.  Koch  with  A.  G.  P.  Jaystileke  for  the  appellant. — 
The  notice   contemplated  by  section    350    of    the     Civil 
Procedure  Code   is  one   with  regard  to   a  particular  fund. 
The  section  says  "notice  shall  be  given  to  the  Court   of  any 
claim  to  sv^h  proceeds  etc." 

J.  S.  Jayawardene  with  F  de  Zoysa  for  the  res- 
pondent.— The  respondent  was  the  only  creditor  who 
claimed  the  proceeds  of  the  first  sale.  The  order  allowing 
the  money  to  be  drawn  without  notice  to  the  respondent 
was  made  per  incuriam.  The  Court  had  notice  of  our 
claim  and  should  not  have  paid  the  money. 

G.  Koch   m   reply. 

c.  a.  V. 

de  SampayO,  J. — The  plaintiff  in  this  action  obtained 
a  decree  against  the  defendant  on  a  mortgage  bond  and 
caused  the  mortgaged  property  to  be  sold,  and  the  sale 
having  realized  more  than  sufficient  to  pay  the  plaintiff, 
the  respondent  to  this  appeal  who  was  plaintiff  in  the 
action  D.  C.  Negombo,  No.  9175,  and  had  obtained  a  money 
decree  against  the  same  defendant,  seized  a  certain  sum 
in  Court  in  July  1914.  The  sale  was,  however,  set  aside  in 
appeal,  and  the  sum  in  deposit  was  drawn  by  the 
purchaser.  Then  the  plaintiff  had  the  property  resold 
in  March,  1915,  and  paid  himself  out  of  the  proceeds  ; 
There  was  still  left  a  balance  out  of  these  proceeds, 
and  this  sum  was  seized  in  June,  1915,  by  the  appellant  and 
two  other  judgment  creditors  of  the  same  defendant,   On 

Vol.  IV. 


TO 

rernawio  v,  (liie  application  made  in  Uiat  holialf  the  Coni-t  dislribnted 
deSampayo,  J.  tlie  amount  amoiig  the  three  Seizing  Creditors  and  paid  it  to 
them  in  September,  1915.  Then  the  present  respondent 
appeared  in  the  case  again  and  moved  that  the  appellant 
and  the  two  other  creditors  should  be  ordered  to  refund 
the  money  in  order  that  he  might  have  a  portion  of  it  in 
concurrence.  The  commissioner  has  allowed  the  appli- 
cation, and  this  appeal  is  taken  from  that  order. 

The  ground  of  the  order,  if  I  understand  the 
Commissioner's  judgment,  is  that  by  reason  of  the  seizure 
in  July,  1915,  at  the  instance  of  the  respondent  the  Court 
had  notice  of  his  claim  and  should  not  have  paid  the  money 
to  the  appellant  and  the  two  other  creditors  without 
notice  to  him.  The  simple  answer  to  that  is  that  what  was 
seized  in  July,  1915,  was  not  the  fund  now  in  question 
but  the  proceeds  of  a  prior  abortive  execution.  The 
provisions  of  section  350  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  upon 
which  the  Commissioner  evidently  relies,  have  regard  to 
the  proceeds  of  a  particular  execution,  and  in  no  way 
justify  the  idea  that  a  claim  to  one  fund  stands  good  in 
respect  of  all  funds  reahzed  by  execution  in  the  same  case 
at  any  time  thereafter  and  under  entirely  different 
circumstances.  It  should  be  borne  in  mind  in  this 
connection  that  the  notice  contemplated  by  section  350  is  not  a 
mere  notice  that  the  party  has  obtained  a  decree  against 
the  same  judgment  debtor  but  a  notice  of  a  claim  to  the 
money  in  Court.  The  money  now  in  claim  has  gone  home 
to  the  appellant  and  the  two  other  creditors  by  actual 
payment,  and  it  is  too  late  now  for  the  respondent  to  ask 
for  a  refund. 

The  order  appealed   from   is    set    aside  so   far  as   the 
appellant  is  concerned  with  costs  in  both  Courts. 

Set  aside. 
Proctor  for  appellant— fl".  A.  Jayetilekr. 
Proctor  for  respondent— Z).  J.  S.  O-oonewardeiif. 
Vol.  IV. 


71 
RAMA    AIYER    v.    SIEKET. 
No.  J:7802  C.  R.  Colombo. 
Present:    de  Sampayo  J. 

1st  March  1916. 

Limitatiun  of  actions — winding  up  of  coinj/ani/ — liahilltij  of  con- 
tributory in  rexpn-t  0*'  haliiHcr  (hic  on  his  shares — lyidian  Companies  Ac^ 
1SS2  sections  01  am!  151 — Ordinance  3«.  23  of  ISTl  section  0. 

In  1907  defendant  was  allotted  three  shares  of  Es.  25  each  in  the 
S.  S.  N.  Co  for  which  he  made  the  initial  p  yment  of  Es.  15.  The  Come 
pany  was  registered  in  India.  In  1908  the  directors  called  for  th« 
balance  due  on  the  shares  but  defendant  did  not  pay  it.  In  1911  the 
District  Court  of  Tinnevellv  made  order  for  the  compulsory  winding  up 
of  the  Company  and  plaintiff  was  appointed  official  liquidator.  In 
September  1912  the  Oourt  settled  the  list  of  contributories  and  in  the  list 
the  de'endan';  was  included  as  a  contributor  On  the  9th  October  1913 
the  Oourt  made  order  that  the  defendant  should  pay  the  amount  to  the 
plaintiff  within  foui  doys  of  the  service  of  the  order.  The  order  was 
served  on  the  defendant  oa  the  11th  or  12th  October  1912  and  he  having 
failed  to  pay  the  amount  the  plaiatiff  brought  this  action  against  him 
on  the  15th  October  1915. 

The  defendant  pleaded  that  the  action  was  prescribed  as  the  cause 
of  action  arose  in  lOOS  when  the  Directors  made  the  call. 

//('/(/  (reversing  the  judgment  of  the  Commissioner)  that  the  cause 
of  action  arose  when  the  order  of  the  Tiunevelly  Court  was  served  on 
the  defendant  as  a  contributory  and  the  action  was  not  proscribed, 

The  period  of  prescription  in  respect  of  the  liability  of  a  con- 
tributory to  pay  the  balance  due  oa  h's  shares  is  3  years  under  section 
9  of  Ordinance  No  22  of  1871. 

Per  de  Sampayo  J. — It  is  true  that  the  ordinary  liability  of  a  share 
holder  to  contribute  his  share  of  the  capital  arises  under  the  articles, 
but  on  a  winding  up  it  is  converted  into  a  statutory  liability.  The  lia- 
bility of  a  contributory  as  isuoh  is  distinct  from  his  previous  liability  as  a, 
share-holder.    It  is  a  new  liability  under  the  statute. 

From  the  fact  that  the  statutory  liability  is  a  new  one  it  follows 
that  the  amount  of  contribution  ordered  by  the  Court  to  be  paid  can  be 
recovered  though  ■  the  claim  on  the  basis  of  calls  originally  made  by  the 
Directors  may  have  be  n  barred  by  limitation  before  the  windiag  up. 

A.     St.     V.     Jdijeicardcnc     \irilli    Jlahitdera  )      for 

appellant. — 

Vol.  IV. 


72 

The  learned  Commissioner  has  erred  in  holding  that  the 
"""^  "■  action  is  prescribed.  Liability  to  contribute  in  the  winding  up 
k  l^U  >■  pi-oceedings  is  distinct  from  the  liabilty  to  pay  calls  made 
by  the  Directors,  ycction  61  of  the  Indian  Companies  Act 
18^2  provides  that  not  only  present  but  also  past  membera 
of  the  Company  are  liable  to  contribute.  The  nature  of  a 
contributory's  liabilitary  is  set  out  in  re  Whitehouse  &  Co} 
Paroll  Spinning  &  Weaving  Go  u.  Manek  Haje,^  Jaiveltje 
V,  Juggin  Wandas^  and  Vaidisivara  Aiyar  amv  .Submnia 
Mudcdiyar^  .  The  period  of  prescription  begins  to  run  only 
from  the  time  the  call  is  made  in  the  winding  up  pro- 
ceedings (section  12.5  of  the  Indian  Compjnies  Aqt).  It  is 
immaterial  in  this  case  to  consider  the  number  of  years  in 
which  the  action  is  prescribed  because  the  least  number  of 
years  possible  is  three  (section  9  of  the  Prescription 
Ordinance).  This  action  has  been  instituted  within  three 
years  of  the  date  of  call  in  the  winding  up  proceedings. 

Keuneinan  for  respondent. — The  cause  of  action  arose 
in  1908  when  the  directors  made  the  call.  The  defendant 
is  not  bound  by  the  winding  up  proceedings  in  India.  He 
had  no  notice  of  those  proceedings  nor  was  he  a  party  to 
them.     Wornum  >t  Co  v.  NoorlaV' . 

c.  a.  V. 

de  Sampayo,  J.. — The  plaiutifi:  as  the  Official  Liquidator 
of  the  Swadeslii  Steam  Navigation  Co  sues  the  defendant, 
who  is  I  he  holder  of  three  shares  in  the  Company,  for  the 
recovery  of  lis  86/29  as  the  amount  of  contribution  with 
interest  due  by  him  towards  the  assets  in  the  winding  up  of 
the  Company.  Though  the  amount  claimed  is  small,  the  case 
involves  an  important  point  in  the  law  relating  to  limitation 
of  actions. 


1.     (1 8 78)  L.  li.  9  ch.  D  -509  2. 1  L.  R.  10  Bom  483. 

■■;.     /  /..   n.  :-'0  Bum  iio4.  4.     IL.  ]!.  -SlJIad  66. 

6.     {191:2)   1-5  X.  L.  R.   o)o. 

Vol,  IV. 


The  Swadeshi  Steam  Navigation  Co  is  a  Company  R„um  Aiyar 
registered  in  India  under  the  Indian  Companies  Act  1882.  sieiet 
In  September  1907  the  defendant  was  on  his  application  '''  ^''""'  •"■ 
allotted  three  shares  of  Rs  25/  each  for  which  he  made  the 
initial  payment  of  Rs  15/.  In  1908  the  D.rectors  made  a 
call  for  the  balance  dae  on  the  shares,  but  the  defendant 
did  not  pay  it.  In  1911,  the  Company  being  in  diiSculty, 
the  District  Court  of  Tinnevelly  made  an  order  for  its  com- 
pulsory winding  up  and  the  plaintiff  was  appointed  OfBcial 
Liquidator.  In  September  1912  the  Court  settled  the  list 
of  contributories  and  in  the  list  the  defendant  was  included 
as  a  contributor  in  respect  of  the  balance  due  by  him  on  his 
shares.  On  the  9th  October  ]912  the  Court  made  order 
that  the  defendant  should  pay  the  amount  to  the  plaintiff 
within  4  days  of  the  service  of  tbe  order.  The  evidence  is, 
and  the  CommissioneT  is  satisfied,  tnat  the  order  was  served 
ont  he  defendant  on  the  10  h  or  11th  Octobtr  1912,  and  the 
defendant  not  having  pai  I  the  am  unl  this  action  was  in- 
stituted on  the  7th  October  1915. 

If  the  date  of  the  order  or  of  its  service  is  taken  as  the 
time  when  the  cause  of  action  arose,  this  action  cannot  be 
said  to  have  been  prescribed.  The  Commissioner,  how- 
evei-,  on  the  footing  th  it  the  cause  of  action  arose  in  1908 
when  the  Directors  ma  le  the  call,  held  that  the  action  was 
barred  by  prescr  ption,  and  dismissed  it.  He  is  clearly 
wrong  in  taking  no  account  of  che  win  ling  up  proceedings 
Section  61  of  the  Indian  Companies  Act  1882,  which 
corre  ponds  to  section  38  of  the  English  Comp  uiies  Act 
of  1862  and  to  section  123  of  the  Compnn!es  (con  olidation) 
Act  1908  ena^t"^  that 

"In  the  event  of  the  CoinpTny  formed  under  this  Act 
being  wound  up,  ever  j-  pies  nt  and  past  member  of  such 
Company  shall  be  liable  to  conribute  to  the  assets  of  i\i-i 
Company  etc." 

It  isi  true  tli;it  the  ordinary  liability  of  a  shareholder  to 
-Yol.  IV. 


tlama  Aiyar 

T. 

Sie'  et 


74 

contribute  his  share  of  capital  arises  under  the  articles  but 
on  a  winding  up  it  is  converted  into  a  statutory  liability 
de  Sampajo,  J.!  ^jjer  the  abovc  section.  The  liability  of  a  contributory 
as  such  is  distinct  from  his  previous  liability  as  ashareholder. 
It  is  a  new  liabili'y  under  the  Statute.  In  re  Whitelwusc 
&  Cii  (1878)  L.  B.  9  ch  D599;  In  re  West  oj  England  Bank 
il87!))  48  L.  J.  ch  4:64  \  Burgess's  case  {1880)  L.  R.  ch  D 
511.  This  interpretation  of  the  statute  has  been  adopted  in 
India.  Tlie  Pa  ell  Spinning  <i  Weaving  Go  v.  Manek  Haii 
(10  Bom  483);  Jamsetje  V.  Jugjiwandas  (20  Bom  doi).  It 
is  therefore  clear  that  the  circumstance  that  the  Directors 
made  a  call  in  1908- before  the  wiading  up  order  makes  no 
difference  as  regards  the  defendant's  present  liability. 
From  the  fact  that  the  stttutory  liability  is  a  new  one  it 
follows  that  the  amount  of  contributions  ordered  by  the 
Court  to  be  paid  can  be  recovered  though  the  claim  on  the 
basis  of  calls  otiginally  made  by  the  Directors,  may  have 
been  barred  by  limitation  before  the  wiading  up  Vaidis- 
ivara  Ayyar  v.  Suhramania  Madaliycu  (31  Mad  66).  Section 
12,5  of  the  English  Companies  (consolidaion)  Act  190>!. 
corresponding  to  section  125  of  the  Indian  Companies  Act 
1882,  emphasises  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  liability  by 
declaring  tha'  "the  liability  of  a  contributory  shall  create  a 
debt  accruing  due  from  him  at  the  time  when  his  liability 
commenced  but  piyable  at  the  time  wh-n  e  dl-i  are  made 
for  enforcing  the  liability."  N  )W,  the  way  in  which  calls 
are  made  for  enforcing  the  liability  is  by  oi'der  of  Court 
under  section  lOCi  of  the  English  Act  coriesponding  to 
section  151  of  the  Indian  AcN  Consequently  the  cause  of 
action  against  the  defendant  arose  when  the  order  of  the 
Tinnevelly  Court  was  Served  on  the  defendant  and  when 
therefore  the  debt  became  payable.  As  regards  the  period 
of  prescription,  the  ciuse  of  action  not  being  otherwise 
provided  for  by  the  Ordinance  No.  22  of  1871,  section  11 
of  the  Ordinance  governs,  and  as  this  action  has  been 
instituted  within   3  years  from  the  time  when  the  cause  of 

Vol.  IV. 


75 

action  accrued  it  is  not  barred  by  preL^cription. 

I  may  note  that  Counsel  for  the  deiiendant  contended 
that  no  liabilitj'  arose  under  the  statute  so  far  as  the  defen- 
dant was  concerned,  because  the  Liquidator  had  not  given 
him  notice,  in  connection  with  tlie  sottlenipnt  of  the  list  of 
contributions.  But  this  point  was  not  raised  in  the  Court 
below  and  no  evidence  was  directed  to  it.  The  defendant 
for  the  purpose  of  proving  that  he  had  not  received  the 
order  of  Court  did  swear  generally  that  he  had  not  received 
any  notice  or  communication  from  the  Company  or  the 
Liquidator  since  his  application  for  shares,  but  the  Com- 
missioner did  not  believe  him  there.  Moreover,  if  the 
defendant  was  wrongly  put  on  the  li.-t  of  contributories  his 
remedy  I  think  is  to  apply  in  that  behalf  toithe  Court  in 
tbe  winding  up  proceedings.  The  appeal  is  allowed  and 
judgment  will  be  entered  for  plaintiff  as  claimed  with  costs 
of  the  action  and  of  this  appeal. 

Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellant — B.  0.  Pullenayagani. 

Proctor  for  respondent — P.  A.  T.  La  Bruoy. 


RAMASAMY     NaDAR     v.    MARIE     ASSARI. 

N<  .  8750  P.  C.  Puttalam. 

Present  -.     Shaw,    J. 

1st  March  1916. 

Clii  atiiig  —dishonedly  inducing  delieerij  ofpropei  ty—trmil  Qudp  2  of  lss:j 
sections  399,  400  and  403. 

Where  a  jenon  is  dis'-  onestly  inducedto  deliver  piop  rty  as  the  reaiilt 
of  cheatiaerthd offence coumittsd falls  uoder  seotion  403   of  the   Pena 
Code  and  the  offence  is  not  summarily  triible  by  a  Police  Magistrate. 

A.  St.  Y  Jayeivardene  for  appellant. — The  proceedings 
were  irregular.  The  learned  Police  Magistrate  should  not 
have  tried   the  case  summarily.     The  offence  does  not  fall 

Vol.  IV. 


76 

i„nnsKM,T      iiiuler  secion  400.,  it  f  ^11-  undor  s.^clion  40;',.  When  p.opeity 
''."''•"   .     hiis   heon   dcliverp.!    as    lie  i-psiiH  of  ihe  clieating  the  latter 

s'haw.r'  Section  is  applic;i''lo.  An  olTonce  nndev  sec  ion  403  is 
triable  li.v  a  District  JndKe  on  an  indie  ment.  (vide  371  P.  C. 
Bad)dla  i-J-U)}  )  V  les-ier  ofJVnce  should  not  be  chosen  for 
trial  when  the  evide'  ce  disclnsfs  a  graver  on  ■.  {Xnciamma  v. 
Thi'mis  SiivDo  -  ). 

A'-nlanandan  Jor  irfi/xiudmf.— It  is,  submitted  that 
sectien  403  applies  to  graver  ofiences  and  section  400  to 
smaller  offence^.  It  I. as  Ueen  held  in  India  that  the  corres- 
ponding sections  of  the  Indian  Code  overlap,  and  that  some 
degree  of  co:iimon  sense  ought  to  be  exercised  in  adopting 
either  section  to  fit  ihe  facts  of  a  pai  ticnlar  case.  Counsel 
cited  Guiir's  Griminal  Law  Vol  2 p.  1124 

Shaw  J.  In  this  case  thf  accused  has  been  convicted 
of  the  following  offence  : — that  he  did  on  or  about  the  4th 
of  January,  1916,  cheat  one  Ramasamy  Nadar,  and  thereby 
dishonesily  induced  the  said  Ramasamy  to  deliver  to  him 
three  gold  sovereigns  by  fa'se  represent  tion,  and  the 
indictment  to  the  charge  alleges  that  he  th"  reby  committed 
an  offence  punishable  under  section  398  of  the  Ceylon 
Penal  Code.  It  appears  to  be  a  mistake  to  have  alleged 
that  the  offence  was  punishable  under  this  secdon.  Section 
398  is  a  definition  section,  and  not  one  relating  to  punish- 
ment for  an  offence.  The  Magitrate  no  doubt  intended  to 
punish  under  section  400  which  is  for  simple  cheating,  but 
the  offence  charged  and  the  offence  for  which  the  accused 
was  found  guilty  is  an  offence  directly  provided  for  by 
section  403  of  the  Penal  Code,  namely  dishonestly  inducing 
a  pei-son  to  delivt-r  property  by  means  of  cheating.  This 
offence  is  punishable  oa  indictment  before  the  District 
Court,  and  is  not  triab'e  by  the  Police  Couit.  There  is  a 
case  No.  371  (S.  C.  Mins  of  19th  May,  ?97.5)  in  which 
the   late    Mr.  Justice    Pereira  decided  on  facta  similar  to 

(/)     S.  C.  M.  19th  May  1916.  {S)  1  C,  A.  C.   56, 

Vol,  IV, 


77 

those  in  the  present  case,  that  thi'  offence  must  be  tried  and 
punished  by  tliH  District  Court  under  Fection  40.'5,  and 
cannot  be  tried  suinmarily  ))y  the  Police  Magistrate  under 
SHCtion  400.  This  appears  lo  be  consonant  with  the 
decisions  of  this  Conrt  on  other  s  ctio  s  of  the  Penal  Code 
It  is  laid  down  in  Naqamma  v.  Thprnifi  Sinno  ^  that  a 
lesser  offence  cann'  t  be  chosen  for  t'ial  when  the  evidence 
discloses  a  graver  on",  and  there  are  many  other  decisions 
of  this  Court  to  the  same  effect.  The  evidence  here 
dis: losing  an  offence  under  section  403,  the  offence  under 
gsction  400  could  not  be  selected  l)v  the  Magisti-ate  for 
adjudication.  He  should,  in  conformity  wiih  those  decisions, 
have  proceeded  to  deal  with  ihe  case  as  for  an  indictable 
offence.  There  is  some  inconvenience  in  the  application  of 
the  law  I  have  referred  to,  but  I  do  not  feel  justified 
in  not  following  these  cases  although  some  day  it  may  be 
advisable  that  they  should  be  reconsidered  by  a  fuller 
Court.  In  the  present  case  I  do  not  think  there  is  any 
necessity  to  do  this,  because  no  inconvenience  will  arise  to 
public  interest  if  I  allow  the  appeal  and  set  aside  the  con- 
viction and  send  the  case  back  to  the  Magistrate  with  in- 
structions to  deal  with  the  case  as  a  non-summary  one. 

Sent  hack. 
Proctor  for  app  llant —  W.  S.  Strong. 

Proctor  for  respondent —  A.  E.  Aheyekoon. 


WICKRAMRATNE   v.  FERNANDO. 

No.  6043  D.  C.  Kalutara. 
Present:  Shaw  and  de  Samyayo  J.  J- 

17th  March,  191G 

Ptirtnenhij)-  Capital — iMtrtnership  asuxrfs  or pmpeii;/. 

(1)     1  C.  A.  C.  56, 
Vol.  IV. 


Wickremeratne  The  Capital  of  a  pu'tnersh.-p  is  not  the  same  as   the   pa  t  ersliip 

T-    ,        assets  or  pc  party. 
Fernando 
Shaw,  J.  By  the  capital  ot  a  p^irnerhp  is  meant  ihe  spg  ear  ••<■  of  the  s'lnis 

contributed  by  its  membj'S  f.  r  the  pirpose  of  <OTim"  cn^  or  carr'i:)g 

on  the  par' nei ship  business  and  int-r.ded   lo  tie    i-ke  I  by  ihem  in  Vvd 

business. 

The  cap-tal  is  a   sum  fixod    by    t' e  ag.-  pmenh  of    the  pa-tners 

whilst  the  actual  asset?  off^e  fi  m  vary  from  d  ly  t  >  day  and  include 

every  thirg  belonging  to  the  firm   and  havins  any  money  value. 

Satnatrtu'ickramri,  for  appellant: — The  learned  Dis- 
trict Judge  is  in  error  in  thinking  that  the  partnpr-hip  capital 
is  the  same  as  pirtnprship  assets.  The  capital  of  a  part- 
nership is  not  the  same  as  its  property;  cipital  is  a  sum  fixed 
by  agreement  of  parties  while  the  assets  may  vary  from  day 
to  day.  In  this  case  the  capital  is  below  R^.  1000/-  but  it  is 
the  partnership  assets  that  gradually  grew  to  more  than  Rs- 
1000/- 

E.  W.  Jayawardene,  for  respondent:  The  learned 
District  Judge  was  right  in  d'ssmissing  the  action.  Theiv 
the  capital  itself  varied  every  jrear  by  addition  to  it. 

Sh'.w,  J. — The  action  was  brought  to  recover  the  plain- 
tiff's s  hare  of  the  assets  afier  the  determination  of  an  alleged 
verbal  partnership,  and  for  money  said  to  have  been  paid 
by  the  plaintiff  on  behalf  of  the  partnership. 

Objection  was  taken  that  the  capital  of  the  alleged 
partnership  was  over  Rs.  1000/-  and  that  consequent  to 
Section  21  of  Ordinance  No.  1840  and  the  decision  of  the 
Privy  Council  in  Patp.  v.  Pate,  (18.  N.  L.  R.  289.)  the  action 
was  not  maintainable. 

The  District  Judge  tried  a  preliminary  issue  as  to  the 
ammount  of  the  partnership  capital  and  found  that  it 
exceeded — Rs.  1000/-  and  consequently  has  dismissed  the 
action. 

Thrve  appears  to  have  been  considerable  misapprehen- 
sion in  the  minds  of  both  the  parties  and  the  Judge  as  to 
the  meaning  of  the  expression  "Capital"  when  ar.lieil  to  a 

Vol.  IV. 


79 

to  a  partDership,  which  has  been  confused  throughout  the 
case  with  "assets"  which  are  by  no  means  the  same. 

By  the  Capital  of  a  parlnership  is  meant  the  ag^egate 
of  the  sums  contribute!  by  its  members  for  the  purpose  of 
commencing  or  carrying  on  the  partnership  business  and 
int-nded  to  be  risked  by  them  in  that  business.  The  Capi- 
tal of  a  partnership  is  not  therefore  the  same  as  its  pro- 
perty: The  Capital  is  a  sum  fixed  by  the  agreement  of 
the  partnerd;  whilst  the  actial  assets  of  the'  firm  Vj,ry  from 
day  to  day,  and  include  everything  belonging  to  the  firm 
and  having  any  money  value.  (See  Lindley  on  partner- 
ship Bk,  111,  Ch.  3). 

Neither  llie  stock  in  trade  or  the  assets  o'  the  partner- 
ship at  any  particular  time  necessarily  represent  the  capital 
of  the  firm  which  is  the  actual  cash  and  the  value  of  the 
property  contribute  1  by  the  partners  to  be  the  cornmon 
properly  of  the  firm  to  be  used  for  the  purpose  of  the 
joint  business.  lo  would  appear  to  me  th.it  the  value  of 
the  good  will  of  a  business,  the  property  of  one  of  the  pirt- 
ners  and  contribute  I  by  him  to  the  parposes  of  the  Joint 
venture,   may  constitute  part   of  the  capital  of  the  fii-m. 

I  would  set  aside  the  judgment  appealed  from  and 
send  the  case  b;i,ck  t'l  the  Di.-trict  Judge  to  retake  evidence 
and  reconsider  his  finding  on  the  preliminary  issue  hav- 
ing regard  to  the  principles  above  stated. 

I  would  direct  the  costs  of  this  appeal  to  abide  the 
result  of  the  action. 

de  Sampayo,  J. — I  agree. 


Proctor  tor  appellant — C.   Wijcrntne. 
Proctor  for  respondent— .4  dr  Ahrew. 

Vol.  VI. 


so 

DIAS  V,  PERERA. 

No'  23066    D.  C.  Kandy. 

Present:  Wood  Renton  C.  J.  and  de  Sam.jayo  J. 

17th  March  1916. 

PartiierMp— capital— partnei'ship  assets— OriUiiaiice  No.  t  of  1S40, 
Section  SI  {4). 

By  the  capital  o£  a  partnsrship  is  meant  the  a?gr<?gate  of  the 
sums  contributed  by  its  members  for  the  purpose  of  oommenciag  or 
carrying  on  th3  par'nership  business  and  intendeJ  to  be  r".cked  by  them 
in  that  business.  The  capital  of  a  pirtnershsp  is  thetef  jre  not  the 
same  as  its  properly. 

Per  De  Sampayo,  J. — Ths  question  occars  to  me  as  io  whether 
when  Sejfon  21  (4)  of  ojr  Ordlnancj  (No.  7  of  1810  speaks  of  "capital'' 
it  refers  to  the  initial  capital  or  whether  it  extends  to  the  amount  that 
may  stand  as  capital  after  additions  cr  wit  drawaU  at  any  time  during 
tha  course  of  thebusines'.  The  latter  oonstruotion  appears  to  me  to 
render  the  p  -ov  sio.s  i.f  tie  Ordinance  uawjrkable  an  1 1  think  that  the 
Ordin  nee  r  f^rs  to  thj  initial  capital  only  and  not  to  tlie  flactuatiDg 
cap  tal  of  a  partnership. 

Bartholomeusz  iov  appellant. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayeicunlene  for  respondent. 

c.  a.  V. 

de  Sampayo,  J.— The  plain  iffs  in  their  plaint  alleged 
that  in  April  191-J  thej'  and  the  defendant  agreed  to  carry 
on  business  in  partnership  as  printers  and  pnblishiers, 
and  they  brought  this  action  for  the  dissolutioa  of  the 
partnership  and  for  an  accounting.  There  was  no 
agreement  in  writing  as  required  by  Section  21  (4)  of 
the  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1811),  but  the  plaintiffs  alleged 
that  the  capital  of  the  partnership  was  under  Rs.  1000/-. 
That  defendant  in  his  answer  denied  the  a  leged  pir^ner 
ship  and  stated  that  he  was  in  May  1913  induced  by  the 
plain  iffs  to  buy  a  printing  press  and  other  accessories 
and  to  carry  un  a  business  in  printing  and  publishing,  and 
that  the  plaiutiirs  were    only  his    servants  having  been 

Vol.  IV. 


81 

employed  by  him  as  foreman  and  manager  respectively,  mas  v.  peieia 
Certain  issues  arising  upon  the  pleadings  were  submit-  '  ""'"''°' 
ted  to  Court,  but  when  the  case  came  on  for  trial,  the 
defendant  withdrew  his  denial  of  the  partnership  and 
consented  to  the  matter  of  accounts  being  referred  to 
commissioners  to  be  appointed  by  court.  The  commiss- 
ioners so  appointed  examined  the  parties,  took  an  ac- 
count, and  reported  to  court  the  result  of  their  preceed- 
ings.  Among  other  things  they  reported  that  the  de- 
fendant's books  "  shewed  items  amounting  to  a  total  of 
Rs.  1417/28  as  representing  the  value  of  press  and  press 
accessories, '  and  setting  ofiE  expenditure  and  debts  against 
the  assets  and  income,  they  found  that  there  was  a 
nett  balance  of  398/82  due  to  plaintiffs. 

When  the  case  came  up  again  before  the  District 
Judge  the  following  issue  suggested  by  the  Defendant's 
proctor  was  accepted  as  an  additional  issue: 

"whether  in  view  of  the  finding  and  report  of  the 
Commissioners  that  the  property  of  the  alleged  pariner- 
ship  is  over  Rs.  1000/-  in  value  it  is  competent  for  the 
plaintiffs  to  maintain  this  action  etc.?" 

On  behalf  of  the  plaintiffs  the  report  and  proceed- 
ings of  the  commissioners  were  put  ia  evidence,  The 
defendant  called  one  of  the  Commissioners  and  produ- 
ced the  defendant's  "expenditure  book,"  marked  A,  in 
which  8  items  relating  to  the  purchase  of  two  presses 
and  materials  appeared  as  of  date  the  15th  May  1913. 
amounting  to  Rs.  1197/-.  These  items  were  followed 
by  other  items  in  June — (without  a  date),  making  a 
total  expenditure  of  Rs.  1308/88.  The  District  Judge, 
taking  the  I5th  May  1913  as  the  day  on  which  the  presses 
and  materials  were  boaght  and  on  which  the  business  start- 
ed, said  that  "if  Hs.  1197/-  was  the  amount  the  parties 
had  to  spend  on  the  very  first  day  it  was  not  unreason-  ' 
able  to   suppose  that  they  had   a  bjlauce  of  capital  for 

Vol,  IV. 


82 

Diasv.perem   the  purchase  of  other   accessories  and  for   the    conduct 
de  Sampayo,  J.   Qf  ^jjg  business"  and  held  that  the  busiiiess  began  with  a 
capital  exceeding  Rs.   1000/-.     The   plaintiffs'  action    was 
accordingly  dismissed. 

The  District  Judge's  idea  that  the  business  started 
on  15th  May  1913  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  case  of 
either  party.  The  plaintiffs  say  that  the  business  was 
started  in  April  with  the  first  press  and  accessories 
called  the  "Modern  press"  which  they  bought  with  money 
contributed  by  all  the  parties  for  the  purpose  of  the  busi- 
ness. This  is  borne  oat  by  the  deed  of  transfer  dated  24th 
April  1913  iu  favour  of  tne  paitiiers  from  the  former 
owner  of  the  press  and  accessories.  The  defendant  stated 
before  the  Commissioners  that  the  business  started  in 
June,  intending  no  doubt  thereby  to  show  that  the  press 
subsequently  bought  was  part  of  the  capital  concern.  The 
defendant  has  nothing  to  go  upon  for  fixing  a  date,  and  so 
far  as  the  books  dre  concerned  the  Commissioners  report 
that  the  defendant's  books  contain  many  erasures  and  al- 
terations and  they  significantly  remark  that  "the  dates 
are  often  topsyturpy."  The  book  marked  A,  upon  which 
the  District  Judge  relies,  is  demonstrably  false  as  to  the 
date.  It  has  the  heading  "'Spent  for  the  Oh^ndralankara 
Press  on  the  15th  May  1913."  The  Defendant  at  first 
tried  to  make  out  that  this  was  in  the  handwridng  of  the 
2nd  plaintiff.  But  the  Commissioner  who  was  examined 
in  Court  says  that  it  was  ultimately  admitted  to  be  iu  the 
handwriting  of  the  defendant  himself,  and  there  is  more 
than  a  suspicion  that  it  was  put  in  by  him  to  serve  the 
purpose  of  this  case.  The  first  item  under  the  heading  is 
"Modern  press  Rs.  325/-,"  and  I  have  already  shewn  by 
reference  to  deed  No.  3917  that  sum  was  spent  not  on  T5th 
May  1913  but  on  the  24th  April  1913.  Another  item  un- 
der the  heading  is  "i  demi  foolscap  Victoria  Machine 
•Rs.  440."  If  that  item  is  taken  out,  even  assuming  that 
all  the  rest  of  the  items  in  book  A.  constitute  the  capital 
Vol.  IV. 


83 

of  the  partnership,  the  amount  is  less  than  Rs.  1000/-.  Diaiv.  Perera 
Now  as  to  the  "Vicloria  Machine"  the  plaintiffs  say  that  '  >"»i«y"' 
it  was  not  'bought  by  the  partners  with  their  money  and 
they  do  not  claim  it.  The  defendant's  own  evidence  on 
the  point  is  that  he  bought  it  for  the  partnership  for 
Rs.  440/-  out  of  his  own  money.  He  carefully  abstairs 
from  saying  that  it  was  bought  on  the  15th  May  1913  or 
that  it  was  intended  to  be  part  of  the  capital  of  the  part- 
nership, nor  do  the  circumstances  justify  any  such  con- 
clusion. It  may  indeed  be  part  of  the  assets  of  the  part- 
nership and  the  defendant  may  be  entitled  to  its  price  as 
a  debt  due  to  him  from  the  partnership,  but  I  think  it  can- 
not be  included  in  the  capital  of  the  partnership.  Accord- 
ingly I  think  that  the  capital  was  under  Rs.  1000/-. 

Having  now  dealt  with  the  facts,  I  may  point  out  that 
there  is  a  misconception    as   to  what  is  capital  on  the  face  , 

of  the  issue  which  I  have  above  quoted  and  which  has 
been  tried  by  the  District  Junge.  The  distinction  between 
the  capital  and  the  property  of  a  partnership  does  not 
appear  to  have  been  sufficiently  realised.  "By  the  capital 
of  a  partnership"  says  Lindley  (Ed.  vii)  p  358  "is  meant 
the  aggregate  of  the  sums  contributed  by  its  members  for 
the  purpose  of  commencing  or  carrying  on  the  partner- 
ship business  and  intended  to  be  risked  by  them  in  that 
business.  The  capital  of  a  partnership  is  not  therefore 
the  same  as  its  property"  Lindley  at  p.  359  adds,  "It 
follows  from  these  considerations  that  the  agi-eed  capital 
of  a  partnership  cannot  be  either  added  to  or  withdrawn 
except  with  the  consent  of  all  the  members  of  the  part- 
nership." The  principle  is  undoubted  and  no  further 
references  are  necessary.  De  Silva  v.  De  Silua,  (1902)  3  Br, 
136  cited  on  behalf  of  the  defendant  is  no  authority  to  the 
contrary,  in  as  much  as  that  case  was  decided  clearly 
on  the  assumption  that  the  capital  of  the  partnership  was 
over  Rs.  1000/-.  The  question,,  however,  occurs  to  me  as 
to  whether,  when  Section  21  (4)  of  our  Ordinance  speaks  of 
Vol.  IV. 


84 

Diaiy.perera  Capital,"  it  refers  to  the  initial  capital  or  whether  it 
Wood-«ei.toD,  C.J,  extends  to  the  amount  that  may  stand  as  capital,  after  addi- 
tions or  withdrawals,  at  any  time  during  the  course  of  the 
business.  The  latter  construction  appears  to  me  to  render 
the  provision  of  the  Ordinance  unworkable,  and  I  think 
that  the  ordinance  refers  to  the  initial  capital  only  and 
not  to  the  fluctuating  capital  of  a  partnership.  But  it  is 
unnecessary  to  decide  the  point,  because  as  I  have  said  the 
"Victoria  Machine"  purchases  for  Rs.  440/-  is  not  shown 
to  have  been  brought  in  as  part  of  the  capital.  The  plain- 
tiflFs  did  not  contribute  to  its  purchase  and  certainly 
did  not  consent  to  its  being  added  to  the  capittal.  The  on- 
ly reasonable  conclusion  to  be  drawn  from  the  whole  tenor 
of  the  defendants'  evidence  is  that  the  money  that  went  to- 
wards its  purchase  was  money  advanced  by  him  to  the 
partnership.  Moreover,  the  defendant  having  admitted  the 
partnership,  the  court  will  exact  from  him  the  most  strict 
proof  of  any  facts  on  which  he  may  reply  as  entitling  him 
to  take  refuge  under  the  Ordinance.  In  my  opinion  the 
defendant  wholly  failed  to  discharge  the  heavy  burden 
which  lay  on  him. 

I  would  set  aside  the  decree  appealed  from  and  send 
the  case  back  in  order  that  the  claim  of  +he  plaintiffs  may 
be  determined  on  the  footing  that  no  writing  was  required 
for  establishing  the  partnership  between  the  parties.  The 
plaintiffs  will  have  the  costs  of  the  trial  in  the  District 
Court  and  of  this  appeal.  All  other  costs  will  be  in  the  dis- 
cretion of  Court  and  the  District  Judge. 

I  agree. — Wood  Renton  C.  J. 

Proctors  for  appellant— LeiscMng  and  Lee. 
Proctor  for  respondents — M.  A.  Perera. 


Vol,  IV, 


MARIKAR  V.  ASSANPILLAI. 

No,   7285  C.  R.  Kandy. 

Present:     De  Sampayo,  J. 

27th  January,  1916. 

Service  Tenuveei — Nindagama proprietor— mlaliaraija—impossiUlity  of 
jieiformance  of  service— tenant  cannot  be  compelled  to  render  other  service. 
A  panguwa  under  the  Service  Tenures  Ordinance  doea  noi  belong 
to  the  Nindagama  proprietor  but  is  a  holding  of  the  nilakaraya  him- 
self Bubject  only  to  the  performance  oEseivice;  and  the  nllakaraya  be- 
ccmes  free  even  of  his  burden  if  the  right  to  service  is  lost  as  for  ins- 
tance by  non  performance  of  service  for  ten  years. 

The  nature  of  the  service  is  definite  and  determine  3  and  the  tenant 
is  bound  to  do  that  and  none  other.  If  he  has  elected  to  commute 
the  service  by  a  money  paymeat  the  proprietor  can  of  coursa  claim  the 
money  irresp  ctive  of  any  charge  in  the  circumstances.  But  if  there 
has  been  no  such  election  the  proprietor  must  be  content  with  exact- 
ing the  service  and  if  that  becomes  impossible  he  must  suffer  the  lois. 

Arulanandam  for  plaintiff  appellant. 

J.  W.  de  Silva  for  defendants  respondent. 

c.  a.  V, 

De  Sampayo,  J. — The  plaintiff  as  proprietor  of  a 
Nindagama  sues  the  defendants  as  tenants  of  a  certain  Pan- 
guwa for  a  recovery  of  Rs.  118/-  as  damages  for  non-perfor. 
mance  of  service  for  the  year  1913.  The  sum  of  Rs.  118/- 
ia  the  assessed  value  of  the  services  as  stated  in  the  Service 
Tenure  Register.  On  a  previous  appeal  it  was  pointed  out 
that  as  the  defendant  had  not  agreed  to  commute  the  ser- 
vices the  actual  damages  must  be  proved  though  the  value 
stated  in  the  Register  might  be  taken  as  prima  facie  evi- 
dence, and  the  case  was  sent  back  for  further  proceedings. 
At  the  further  trial  it  has  been  found  that  some  of  the  ser. 
vices  were  incapable  of  performance  and  others  had  not 
been  required  to  be  performed.  I  entirely  agree  with  the 
Commissioner  that  the  damages  due  to  plaintiff,  after  the  ne- 
cessary deductions,  amount  to  no  more  than  Rs.  5/-,  but  I 
Vol.  IV. 


86 


Marikar 

V. 

Assanpillai 
de  SampafO)  J. 


wish  to  add  a  word  on  one  of  the  points  in  the  pase.  The 
principal  service  specified  in  the  Register  is  to  cultivate 
the  Muttetuwa  for  two  harvests  in  the  year.  But  it 
appears  that  the  plaintifiE  has  leased  the  neighbouring  high 
lands  to  the  Alutta  Rubber  Company  and  in  consequence 
of  those  lands  being  cleared  for  rubber  cultivation  the 
Muttetuwa  field  has  been  so  covered  with  silt  that  it  has 
become  incapable  of  cultivation,  and  the  plaintiff  has  even 
brought  an  action  against  the  Company  in  respect  of  the 
damage  done  by  the  Muttetuwa.  I  cannot  conceive  how 
in  these  circumstances  the  plaintiff  can  claim  the  damages 
from  the  defendants  for  not  cultivating  the  Muttetuwa- 
The  plaintiff  himself  has  perceived  the  difficulty,  but  he 
justifies  the  claim  by  saying  that  he  asked  the  defendants 
to  cultivate  another  field  in  lieu  of  the  Muttetuwa  in 
Question  and  that  they  refused  to  do  so,  and  this  same  view 
has  been  pressed  upon  me  by  his  counsel.  No  authority 
has,  however,  been  cited  to  show  that  the  tenants  of  a 
Nindagama  are  bound,  when  the  specified  service  becomes 
incapable  of  performance  through  no  fault- of  their  own,  to 
do  something  else  at  the  instance  of  the  proprietor,  and  the 
contention  appears  to  me  to  be  contrary  to  principle.  The 
case  for  the  plaintiff  was  put  as  high  as  this,  that  he  was 
the  owner  of  the  tenants'  holding  and  had  in  substance 
leased  them  to  the  tenants  for  a  consideration  which  must 
be  paid  in  some  shape  or  another.  This  involves  an  entire 
misconception  of  the  relation  between  the  Nindagama  pro- 
prietor and  the  Nilakarayas.  The  holding  in  fact  belong 
to  the  tenants  thenselves  subject  only  to  the  performance 
of  service,  ond  they  become  free  even  of  this  burden  if 
the  right  to  service  is  lost,  as,  for  instance,  by  non-perfor- 
mance of  service  for  10  years.  The  nature  of  the  service 
is  definite  and  determined,  and  the  tenant  is  bound  to  do 
that  and  none  other.  If  he  has  elected  to  commute 
the  seivice  by  a  money  payment,  the  proprietor  can  of 
course  claim  the  money  irrespective  of  any  change  in  the 
Vol.  IV. 


8t 

circumstances.      But    if  there  has   been  no  such    election 
the  proprietor  must  be  content  with  exacting  the  service, 
anfi   if  that  becomes  impossible,  he  must  suffer  the    loss. 
The  appeal  is  dismissed  with  costs. 

Proctor  for  appellant — Beven  and  Beven. 
Proctor  for  respondent — O.  E.  de  Silva. 


PODI  SINGHO  V.  PODI    MENIKA. 

D.  C.  Kurunegala  5088. 

Present:     Ennis,  and  Shaw,  J.  J. 

2.5th  May  1916. 

Person  entitleA  t,i  land  hathhn  inhcrituiwe  and  jmi  chase— sui/seque.itt 
dhiilon  of  land  betu>een  himsslf  and  planter  equally — sale  hy  him  there- 
after of  half  share  alleyinci  title  hy  inheritance— later  sale  of  half  share 
derived  on  purchase — validity  of  second  sale, 

U  and  K  each  being  entitled  to  a.  half  shvre  of  a  certain  lani  by 
nheritance,  K  sold  her  halt  share  to  TJ  in  1889.  In  1891  in  an  action 
in  the  Court  of  Requests  between  U  ani  P.  A.,  a  planter,  decree  was 
entered  dividing  the  land  equally  between  XJ  and  P.  A  In  1892  U 
Bold  a  half  share  of  the  land  to  the  3rd  defendant  claiming  to  be  en- 
titled to  it  by  inheritance,  but  in  ths  op?rative  clause  pnrpDrtingr  to 
convey  bis  right  title  and  interest  in  his  share  of  the  lind  Subsquent- 
ly  in  1908  he  purparted  to  convey  to  the  4th  defendant  the  half  shxre 
he   purchased  from  K  in  1889. 

Held,  thit  //must  be  taken  to  have  conveyed  to  the  3rd  defendunt 
in  1893  the  entire  half  share  he  was  entitled  to  at  the  date,  and  thit 
the  transfer  to  the  4t!i  defendant  of  half  share  ia  1908  conveyed  no 
title. 

This  was  a  partition  action.  One  Ungurala  and  Kiri 
Menika  inherited  each  a  half  shire  of  the  land  to  be  parti- 
tioned from  their  father.  Kiri  Menika  sold  her  half  to 
Ungurala  in  1889.  In  1891  by  a  decree  of  the  Court  of 
Requests  one  Panchi  Appuliamy,  who  was  a  planter  was 
declared  entitled  to  a  half  share  of  the  land  and  Ungurala 
Vol.  VI. 


PoiJf  Singho 


88 

was  declared  entitled  to  the  other  half.  In  1892  Ungarala 
purported  to  sell  by  deed  1  D^  a  half  share  acquired  by  in- 
^"eL^Cj.'^''  herltance  exclusive  of  2  seers  to  the  3rd  defendant,  and 
this  share  was  subsequently  gold  by  the  3rd  defendant  to  the 
4th  defendant.  In  the  operative  clause  of  the  deed  how- 
ever Ungurala  purported  to  convey  all  his  right  title  and 
interest  in  his  share  of  the  land.  Ungurala  in  1895  sold 
the  two  seers  excluded  to  the  1st  and  2nd  defendants  by 
the  deed  1  D^  .  Subsquently  in  1908  Ungurala  by  deed 
4  D'  purported  to  transfer  the  half  share  of  the  land  pur- 
chased from  his  sister  to  the  4th  defendant.  The  District 
Judge  held  that  Ungurala  having  divested  himself  of  title 
to  i  share  of  the  land  in  1892  by  1  D\  deed  4  D'  conveyed 
no  title  to  the  4th    defendant. 

Samereiviclcrame,  for  4th  defendant-appellant — Deed  1 
D^  must  be  held  to  have  conveyed  to  the  3rd  defendant 
the  half  share  only  of  the  portion  inherited  from  Un- 
gurala's  father  viz.  1/4'of  the  land;  and  the  remaining  J4 
viz.  the  i  share  of  the  portion  purchased  from  Kiri  Menika 
must  be  taken  to  have  been  sold  to  the  4th  defendant  by 
4  D^ .  Sandris  o.  Dinakahamy^  . 

A.  St.  V.  Jayaiuardene  with  L.  H.  de  Ahvls,  for  defen- 
dants-respondents, not  called  upon. 

Ennie,  J. — (After  setting  out  the  facts  as  above  con- 
tinues:— ) 

It  is  argued  that  this  deed  conveyed  only  Ungurala's 
half  share  in  the  portion  inherited  from  his  father,  and  not 
in  the  portion  he  purchased  from  his  sister.  The  case  of 
Snndris  v.  Dinakahamy'^  has  been  cited  in  support  of 
that  contention.  The  case  does  not  appear  to  me  to  be  an 
authority  in  the  matter,  as  it  would  appe.ir  that  in  that  case 
the  oonveynnce  was  one  of  the  share  derived  from  a  father 
and  it  was  held  that  this  deed  did  not  apply  to  a  conveyance 

(1)   (1919)   '>  Bal.  ?;■>. 
Vol.  IV. 


89 

share  derived  from  the  husband,  In  the  present  case  the 
operative  clause  does  not  limit  the  share  conveyed  to  the 
share  derived  by  inheritance.  In  1908  TJngarala  on  4  D' 
transferred  the  property  he  bought  from  his  sister  to  the 
4th  defendant,  who  is  the  present  appellant.  In  my 
opinion  as  Ungarala  had  disposed  of  all  his  share  in  the  land 
on  documents  1  D'  and  1  D^ ,  there  was  nothing  left  to  be 
covered  by  the  deed  4  D'  . 

In  my  opinion  the  decree  is  right,  and  I  would  dismiss 
the  appeal  with  costs. 

Shaw,  J. — I  agree. 

affinned 
Proctor  for  appellant — V.  I.  V.  Gomis. 

Proctor  for  respondents— Z.  Q  &  E.  G.  M.  Gooneivar- 
dene. 


CQOMARASURIAR  v.  SITHAMPAR.VMLLAT. 

No..  2829   D.  C.  Jaffnx  (Testy). 

Present:     Ennis   and  de  Sampayo,  J,  J. 

6th  March  1916. 

Ttiesawalame — married  woman  dying  witkont  issue—are  heirs  entitled 
to  have  her  dowry  made  good  out  of  acquired propertij  before  distribution- 
section  1  {15)  of  Ordinance  No.  18  of  1806, 

Under  the  Thesawatame  the  heirs  of  a  married  wjma-i  djitijr 
without  issue  are  not  entitled  to  have  the  amount  cf  her  dowr/  made 
good  oat  of  the  acquired  property  before  distribution. 

The  proyis-ions  of  seotion  1  (15)  cf  the  old  Theeawalame  Ordinar03 
No.  18  of  1806  mut  be  deemed  lo  be  obsolete, 

One  Ponnupillai  who  was  mirried  before  the  Ordinance 
No.  1  of  1911  and  who  was  therefore  subject  to  the  old 
Thesawalame  recognised  by  Ordinance  No.  18  of  1806  died 
intestate  aad  issueless  and  her  husband  became  the  admi- 
nistrator of  her  estate.  The  respondents  who  were  the 
Vol,  IV. 


90 

eoomarasiuiar  sisIeK  of  Poniiupillai  claimed  to  have  a  sum  of  R?.  lOOO/- 
Sitiiamparapiii  •.  refunded  to  them  by  the  administrator  from  out  of  the  ac- 
Ennis,J.  quired  property  of  Ponnnpillai  and  her  husband  on  the 
ground  that  under  Section  1  (15)  of  the  TheSwalame  Ordi- 
nance the  acquired  property  of  the  spoases  was  liable  for 
any  diminution  of  the  dowry  property.  At  the  trial  it  was 
agreed  that  at  the  marriage  of  the  deceased  Rs.  1000/-  was 
j:iven  her  as  dowry  and  that  there  is  property  acquired 
during  coverture.  It  was  conceded  by  the  respondents 
that  the  Rs.  1000/-  was  spent  during  coverture.  It  als'o  ap- 
peared from  a  statement  made  by  counsel  for  the  adminis- 
trator that  the  spouses  had  in  order  to  settle  a  niece  in  life 
dowered  the  money  to  her. 

The  District  Judge  held  that  he  was  bound  by  the  pro- 
visions of  Sectioa  1  (1-5)  and  condemned  the  admiostrator 
to  pay  the  amount  to  the  respondents  out  of  the  acquired 
property  of  the  spouses.     TLe  admini.trator  appealed. 

.4.  St.  V.  Jayaivardene  with  Arulanandan  for  ap- 
pellant.— 

Many  provisions  of  the  Thesawalame  are  obsolete 
e.  g,,  the  distinctions  to  be  observed  in  right  of  inheritance 
where  a  pagan  marries  a  Christian  woman  ;  mortgage  of 
slaves,  sales  of  children  and  such  like.  Section  1  (l)  is  also 
obsolete  especially  after  the  enactment  of  the  Wills  Ordi- 
nance No.  21  of  184-1.  Section  4  (1)  authorises  the  husband 
if  the  wife  id  living  peaceably  with  him  to  give  some  [  art  i  f 
the  dowry  away.  It  is  absurd  to  suppose  that  what  may 
be  lawfully  given  away  must  be  made  good.  Vide  Muthu- 
krishna'd  Thesawalame  pp.  117,  ITtJ,  257,  Marth ill's  Judg- 
ments pp.  199,  22;;,  17  N.  L.  R.  2'J4,  243,  881. 

Several  provisions  of  the  Thesawalame  were  basal  on 
the  Hindu  Joint  family  system  and  this  being  no  longer 
law  in  Ceylon  all  such  sections  must  be  interpreted  in  tlie 
light  of  this  fact.  Ftirthcr  such  fetters  on  alienation  are 
iigain;t ;  ublic  policy  and  ;  hould  not  be  tolerated. 

Yol.  \\. 


91 
WadswoftJi  with  J.  Jose-ijh  for  respondents.--  coomara^nnai- 

V. 

Ilie  plain  provision  o£  tlie  Itiw  ought  to  be  followed  '  'emuIj!"  "-' 
and  not  whittled  away  by  legal  refinemeats.  [de  Sampayo, 
J.  iBut  Section  1  (15)  treats  of  division  of  property  where 
two  persons  each  being  the  sole  child  of  their  reipeotive 
parents  die  without  issue.  It  is  repeated  in  the  body  of  the 
section  too.  How  can  you  claim  the  benefit  of  this  section?] 
That  does  not  govern  the  last  clause,  it  is  a  general  provision. 
\de  Sampayo,  J.  How  do  you  make  that  out.  It  is  by  no 
means  clear].  The  Thesawalame  attaches  a  sacredness  to 
dowry  property  an  1  muthusom  property  aad  imposes  a 
wholesome  fetter  on  childless  couples.  The  case  in  Muthu- 
kriehna  176  is  a  case  from  Mannar  and  is  no  authority. 

Arulanandan  in  reply. — The  case  in  Muthukrishna  176 
concludes  the  matter  especially  in  view  of  the  note  append- 
ed to  the  case  by  the  learned  editor  {de  Sampayo,  J.  How 
do  the  peopie  of  Jaffna  like  these  ancient  provisions?]  They 
do  not  like  the  letter  but  the  spirit  o°  the  Thesawalame 
as  iiiterpreted  by  your  Lordships'  Court.  In  case  of 
doubt  the  Roman  Dutch  Law  applies  and  there  is  no  doubt 
that  the  fi.  D.  L.  permitted  alienati-^ns  of  dowry  pro- 
perty with  the  consent  of  the  husband  (3  N. 
L.  R.  42. 

c.  a.  V. 

Ennis,  J. — The  question  for  determination  in  this 
appeal  is  whether,  under  the  Thesawalamai,  the  heirs  of  a 
married  woman  dying  without  issue  are  entitled  to  have 
the  amount  of  her  dowry  made  good  out  of  the  acquired 
property  before  distribution  ?  The  learned  District  Judge 
answered  the  question  in  the  aiErmative  holding  that  the 
matter  was  governed  by  sub-section  15  Section  1.  He 
appears  to  have  dealt  with  the  case  on  this  point  as  a  pre- 
liminary issue  hence  there  is  no  evidence  and  all  the  facts 
are  not  before  the  Court, 

Vol.  VI. 


92 

coomaia.uri»r  It  appears  however  to  have  been  a-Jmitted  that  Ponnu- 

sittamp^arapiiini.  pillai,  the  deceased,  was  given  Rs.  1000-  in  cash  dowry  by 
^™''^'  her  parents  in  1874,  and  that  she  has  spent  it.  It  would 
also  seem,  but  it  was  not  proved,  that  it  was  spent  in  giving 
a  dowry  to  an  adopted  daughter.  It  is  also  admitted  that 
Ponnupillai's  heirs  are  her  two  sisters  the  2nd  and  3rd  add- 
ed-respondents. 

The  paragraph  in  Section  1  (15)  upon  which  the  respon- 
dents rely  runs:  — 

"Should  any  of  the  man's  hereditary  property  or  wo- 
man's dowry  be  diminished  during  marriage  when  one  Of 
them  dies  aud  the  property  is  divided  the  same  must  be 
made  good  from  the  acquired  property,  if  it  be  sufficient ;  if 
not  be  or  she  who  suffers  the  loss  must  put  up  with  it 
patiently." 

The  construction  and  application  of  this  passage  is  not 
so  clear  as  it  looks.  The  whole  of  sub- section  15  refers  to 
the  caso  of  two  married  persons  "each  in  particular  being 
the  sole  child  of  their  respective  parents."  In  this  case  the 
deceased  was  not  the  sole  child  of  h^r  parents  for  the  heirg 
are  her  sisters,  hence  the  passage  quoted  does  not  directly 
apply  and  it  has  to  be  considered  whether  the  passage  annun- 
ciates some  principle  of  general  application. 

The  Tesawalamai  is  a  collection  of  isolated  cases  and 
it  is  almost  impossible  to  extract  any  principles  which 
could  give  cohesion  to  the  whole  It  was  drawn  up  in 
1706  as  a  record  of  Jaflfnapatam  ancieni  customs.  These 
customs  would  seem  to  have  originated  in  the  Joint  Hindu 
family  system.     Section  1  (1)  siys:  — 

"In  ancient  times invariably  the  husband's  pro- 
perty always  remains  with  the  mde  heirs  and  the  wife's 
property  with  the  female  heirs,  but  the  acquisition  or 
Tedijitentom  should  be  divided  among  the  sons  and 
daughters  alike." 

Vol.  IV, 


93 

Had  the  principle  remained  the  Tesawalamai  could  be  co»mrasuriar 
regarded  as  a  consistent  whole  and  the  single  instances  re-  sit'-a^rapiuai. 
corded  would  be  illustrations  of  the  principle. 

The  heirs  of  the  husband  would  have  a  vested  interest 
in  reversion  in  the  husband's  property  and  the  heirs  of  the 
wife  similar  interest  in  the  wife's  property.  But  the  prin- 
ciple had  disappeared  even  in  1706  for  we  read  in  sub- 
section 2: — 

"But  in  process  of  time several  alterations  were 

gradually  made  in  those  customs  and  usages so  that,  at 

present,  whenever  a  husband  or  wife  give  a  daughter  or 
daughters  "in  marriage  the  dowry  is  taken  indiscriminately 
either  from  the  husband  or  wife's  property  or  from  the 
acquisition." 

In  other  words  the  custom  had  changed  so  that  the 
male  heirs  no  longer  had  a  vested  interest  in  reversion  in 
the  husband's  property.  The  husband  and  wife  could  deal 
with  the  property  as  they  liked.  This  clearly  was  so 
where  the  descendants  were  concerned,  and  it  seems  in- 
credible that  the  ancient  rule  should  have  been  altered 
when  the  interests  of  the  descendants  were  concerned 
and  not  altered  where  the  interests  of  ascendants  were 
concerned.  That  it  wag  altered  in  both  cases  find  sup- 
port in  provisions  of  the  Ordinance  No.  21  of  1844  which 
enacted  that  a  will  should  "be  valid  and  effectual  to 
alienate  and  pass  property  in"  any  immovable  or  movable 
property  devised,  bequeathed  or  dispo&pd  of  by  the  teatator  - 
"any  other  law  or  custom  to  the  contrary  notwithstand- 
ing." The  Ordinance  made  no  exception  in  favour  of 
persons  to  whom  the  Tesawalamai  applied,  and  it  was  in 
accordance  with  the  altered  principle  set  out  in  Section  1 
Sub-section  2  of  the  Tesawalamai.  It  is  moreover  conceded 
that  a  wife  can  alienate  her  dowry  property  during  her 
life-time  but  it  is  contended  that  such  an  alienation  is  a 
"diminution"  of  the  property  and  should  be  made  good  out 

Vol.  IV. 


94 

iCoomaiMuriar  of  tlie  acquired  property.  The  con'eiition  seems  to  me 
sithamp^arapiuai.  impossible.     It  would    make  the  husband  on  marriage  an 

d,  Sai.pai'a,  J.  jj^g^j,gj.  qj  j^jg  ^if^'g  dowry  in  the  interests  of  the  relations 
against  an  alienation  which'she  lawfully  could  make  and 
such  a  result  could  hardly  have  been  contemplated  by  the 
compiler  of  the  Tesawalamai  when  he  made  the  remark  in 
Sub-section  5  of  Section  .1.  "It  is  not  for  the  girls  but  for 
the  property  that  most  of  the  men  marry."  In  my  opinion 
the  passage  I  have  cited  from  Sub-section  15  Section  1,  if 
it  is  not  entirely  obsolete,  must  be  read  with  a  due  regard 
to  the  altered  piinciples  of  law  and  in  that  case  any  "dimi- 
nution" of  the  dowry  should  be  made  good  out  of  the 
wife's  half  -of  the  acquired  property,  a  procedure  which 
would  not  affect  the  distribution  in  this  case,  as  the  only 
heirs  are  the  sisters  of  the  deceased. 

I  would  allow  the  appeal  with  costs. 

De  Sampayo,  J. — I  concur  in  the  opinion  of  my 
brother  Ennis  as  to  the  construction  of  Clause  15  of  Sect- 
ion 1  of  the  TesaiLxdaonai.  Even  if  the  last  paragraph  of 
that  clause  is  not  to  be  limited  to  the  specific  case  with 
which  the  clause  deals,  I  cannot  read  it  as  providing  that, 
where  the  dowry  property  is  diminished  by  the  wife  her- 
self, the  husband's  half  of  the  acquired  property  is  liable 
for  any  deficiency.  It  is  undoubtedly  the  law,  it  is  conceded 
by  the  counsel  for  the  respondents,  that  the  dowry  property 
may  validly  be  spent  or  alienated  by  the  wife  during  her 
life-time  and  that  it  cannot  on  her  death  be  reclaimed 
from  the  person  to  whom  it  has  passed.  That  being  so, 
unless  we  are  compelled  by  a  clear  statement  to  the  con- 
trary in  the  Tesawalamai  or  iii  any  authoritative  decision, 
it  seems  to  me  against  principle  to  hold  that  what  has  been 
properly  spent  or  alienated  by  the  wife  should  nevertheless 
be  made  up  for  her  heirs  by  the  husband.  The  Tesawala- 
mai is  by  no  means  clear  on  the  point  nor  has  any  deci- 
sion been  cited  which  supports  the  respondents'  contention. 

Vol.  IV. 


95 

Certain  i  eferreiiC'S  were  made  in  the  course  oftlieaigu- 
ment  to  Midiikrishna's  lesaimlanini.  Tbe  reports  of 
cases  in  that  work  are  extremely  bare  and  it  is  v-^ry  diffi- 
cult in  any  pat-iicnlar  case  io  giiher  on  what  bisis  of  facts 
decision  has  proceeded.  Of  the  cases  referred  to  the 
mort  favourable  for  the  raspondentri  are  cases  of  mortgages 
effected  by  the  husband  and  wife  over  the  wife's  dowry 
property  and  ultimately  paid  by  the  sa  e  of  the  mortgaged 
property,  but  it  is  evident  that  in  such  cases  the  dowry 
property  is  regarded  as  having  been  diminished  by  the  act 
of  the  husband  as  well. 

I  also  think  that  this  appeal  should  be  alllowed  and 
the  order  if  the  District  Judge  should  be  set  aside  with 
costs. 

Proctor  for  the  appellant — T".  Rdmalingnm. 
Proctors  for  respondeat — Cooke  and  Ghrysoston. 


VYRAVEN    CHBTTY  r.  FERNANDO  etui. 

No.  2;-298]  D.  C.  Kandy. 

Present: — Wood  Renton,  C.  J.,  and    de  Sampayo,  J. 

2nd  March,  1916, 

Legacy — conditions  in  restraint  of  mariiage — second  uiitrri'ige  of  lega- 
tee— Soman  Dutch  Law — English  Law. 

A  general  r^ttraint  of  marriage  is  againat  {ublic  policy  and  void 
but  a  provision  in  restraint  of  marriage  not  as  condition  annexed  to  the 
Rift  but  8S  pointing  out  the  limit  of  thu  leg^itee's  interest  is  good. 

This  doctrine  doej  not  apply  in  restraint  of  tlie  eeoond  marriage 
of  tha  legitee. 

One  A.  F.  who  was  IswfuUy  married  to  ano'.her  woman  kept  one 
W.  M.  as  his  mistress  and  had  several  children  by  her,  A.  F.  executed  a 
last  will  which  contained  the  ftllowing  provision: — 

"It  is  my  fuither  will  and  desire  that  should  the  said  W.  M.  takg 
a  husband  after  my  death  or  b.hi^e  in  my  way  diagraceful  in  the  fami- 
ly she  shall  thereupon  forfeit  all  rights  to  any  share  of  my  esta  e    and 

Vol.  lY, 


96 

the  pioperty  hereby  bequeathed  to  her  shall  sink  into  ray  residuary  estate.' 
Vyraven  ^^^^^  ^^^^  ^^^  oonditiots  operated  as  an  absolute  or  general  prohi- 

De^SaDpwo-  1,    bilion  of  marriage  and  was  therefore  void. 

Held/nrther,  that  a  condition  agaiEst  the  seeond  marrisge  imposed 

upon  a  survivinir  spouse  is  valid  but  that  the  said  condition  did  not 

apply  to  W.  M.  as  she  was  not  a  widovr. 

Bawa,  K.  C.  for  plaintiff-appellant. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene  for  defendant-respondent. 

De  Sampjyo,  J. — The  plaintiff  claims  title  to  ceriain 
lands  which  he  purchased  in  execution  against  the  8th 
added  defendant  Walimuni  Madiyanselage  Ukku  Menika 
in  Nevember  1913.  The  defendant  and  the  first  to  the  7th 
added  defendants  are  the  children  of  said  Ukku  Menika  by- 
one  Arnolis  Fernando,  and  they  claim  the  lands  adversely 
to  the  plaintiff  under  the  will  of  Arnolis  Fernando.  The 
question  involved  in  this  case  turns  upon  the  legal  effect  of 
the  said  lands  in  favour  of  Ukku  Menika. 

Arnolis  Fernando  who  was  a  low-country  Singhalese 
man  of  Galle  was  lawfully  married  to  a  woman  who  is 
still  alive,  and  there  are  some  children  of  that  marriage 
He  appea-*3  to  have  deserted  his  lawful  wife  some  20  years 
before  his  death  and  to  have  settled  in  Kandy,  where  he 
acquired  considerable  property.  Daring  his  residence  In 
Kandy  ho  kept  Ukku  Menika  as  his  mistress,  and  he  died 
in  1905,  having  made  a  last  will  dated  7th  December  1904. 
Some  time  after  liis  death  Ukku  Menika  began  to  live 
wiih  his  brother  James  Fernando  by  whom  some  cbilJren 
have  also  been  born  to  her,  and  she  has  now  married  James 
Fernan'o.  Th'-y  lived  and  ttiU  continue  to  live  in  James 
Ftrnando's  house  The  defendant  and  the  added  defen- 
dants have  also  lived  with  them  on  cordial  terms,  and  up  to 
this  action  there  has  been  no  qaestion  as  to  Ukku  Menika 
having  fcirfeited  her  right  to  these  lands  in  consequence 
of  her  association  or  ma-viage  with  James  Fe  n  ndo. 

Vol.  IV. 


(    97     ) 

By  the  will  Amolis   Fernando   in  the  tirst  place  g:(ve  VJ^l^t.n  (i„ni 
certain  pecuniary  legacies  to  his  legitimate  daughter  Engel-      Fuinin.io 
tina,  to  hia  four  sisters,  and  to  his  brother  the  said  James   '"''  ^""'""'°'  •'• 
Fernando.     He  next  devised  to  Ukkn  Menika  all  the  lands 
situate  at  Dumbera,  among  which  are  included  the  lands 
now  in  question.     He  then  disposed  of  the  residue   by  giv- 
ing i  share  to   his    brother  Bastian  Fernando   and   the   re- 
maining i  shares  to  his  children,  the    defend  mt   and    the 
added  defendants,  subject  to  the  condition  that  should  any  of 
the   children   die   before  attaining  majority  his  or  her  share 
should    go   to   the  remaining  children  and  that  should  they 
all  die  before  that   age   one   half   of   the   bequest   to    them 
should   go   to   his   said    Ijrother    Bastian  Fernando  and  the 
other  half  to  his  daughter  Engeltina.     This  is    followed   by 
the  following  provision: — 

"It  is  my  further  will  aJid  desire  that  should  the  said 
Walimunai  Mudiyanselage  Ukkumenika  take  a  husb.ind 
after  my  death  or  behave  in  any  way  disg)-aceful  in  the 
family  she  shall  thereupon  forfeit  ail  rights  to  any  share  tit 
my  estate  and  the  property  hereby  bequeathed  to  her  shall 
sink  into  my  residuary  estate." 

The  District  Judge  has  held  that  under  the  circum- 
stances above  stated  Ukku  Menika  violated  the  condition  of 
the  legacy  and  forfeited  her  right  to  the  lands.  It  is  not, 
however,  clear  whether  in  his  view  the  iforfeiture  was  due 
to  the  association  with  James  Fernando  or  h^r  subsequent 
marriage  with  him.  Bat  Counsel  for  the  defendants  felt 
hunself  unable  seriously  to  contend  that  her  association 
with  James  Fernando  constituted  '"disgraceful  behaviour  in 
the  family"  within  the  meaning  of  a  testat.;r  who  though 
a  married  man  had  himself  kept  her  as  his  mistress,  and  I 
need  oaly  say  that  under  all  the  circumstances  of  the  case 
Counstl  acted  rightly  in  not  pressing  that  point.  The  foi- 
feiture,  if  any,  must  therefore  be  confined  to  the  condition 
which  prohibits  Ukku  Meuiku  from  t.iking  a  huslnmJ. 

Vol.  IV. 


(    98    ) 

vyraveu  ci.etty  The  law  applicable  to  the  subject,  I  take  it,    is  the  Ro- 

rermudo.      luau  Dulch  Law.     Burge  VoL  2  p.  155  states  it  as  a  general 

De  Sampayo,  J.  pj-Qpogji-jm^  tj^^t  "a  condition,  which  either  in  terms  or  in 
its  effect  operates  directlj'  or  indirectly  as  an  absolute  or 
general  prohibition  of  any  marriage,  would  be  void." 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  condition  in  the  present  case 
is  of  that  description.  It  is  however  necessary  to  consider 
the  application  of  the  authorities  which  have  been  referied 
to  at  the  argument  further.  The  old  Roman  law  entirely 
i-eprobated  any  provision  in  a  husband's  will  by  which  the 
wife  was  prohibited  from  contracting  a  second  marriage  as 
the  condition  of  her  taking  a  legacy,  but  the  Lex  Julia 
Mi'irdl.a  introduced  a  modification  by  providing  that  the 
\\-idijW  mii;lit  huvr  the  legacy  within  a  year  upon  taking  an 
oath  that  she  woidd  not  marry  again  nisi  liberorwn  }trocve- 
((udiiram  cdiisd  or  after  a  year  upon  giving  security  not  to 
marry.  Jusiinian  first  considered  these  restrictions  to  be 
oppressive  and  undesirable  and  allo^^■ed  the  widow  to  take 
the  legacy  absolutely  without  any  oath  or  security  (Code  6 
40.  2)  but  later  by  Novell.  22.  C.  C.  43  and  44  he  repealed 
liis  previous  legislation  and  reciting  various  reasons  for  the 
change  he  enacted  that  if  husband  or  wife  should  leave  a 
legacy  to  the  other  on  condition  that  she  or  he  should  nut 
marry  again  the  legitee  should  elect  either  to  marry  and 
renounce  the  legacy  or  to  take  the  legacy  and  abstain  from 
contracting  a  marriage.  He  further  provided  that  in  the 
latter  case  the  legacy  should  be  taken  only  upon  security 
being  given  for  the  restoration  of  the  pi'operty  in  the  event 
of  a  marriage.  I  have  thus  briefly  stated  the  Roman  Law, 
in  order  to  make  clear  the  opinions  of  the  Roman-Dutch 
Jurists  on  the  subject.  Peckins  de  test.  cdhJuc/.  1.  24.  1  and 
2.  controverts  the  reasons  given  by  Justinian  for  his 
latest  legislation  and  states  the  law  in  Holland  to  be  that 
tlie  cnn.litions  in  restraint  of  marriage  imposed  upon  a 
widiiw  o;   widower   need   not  1)6  observed,  while  he  allows 

Vol.  IV, 


(     99     ) 

a>^  good  an<l  equitable  a  provision  for  the    siivviviii.c  Hpoiise  vyravi-a  ciu-ttr 
during   widowliood   or    celibacj'.     He  tlius  recogniHes  tlip      vmau.\o 
distinction  between  a  condition  annexed  to  tlie  legacy  and 
a  limitation.     Van  Leeuwen  Cen  For  1,  3,  5,  29  lays  down 
broadly:   Gonditio  viduitatis,  si.ve  marl  sive  feminae    iin- 
posita,  quasi  non  adjecta  remittitur,  and  he  specially  points 
out  that  Justinian's  Novell  22  made  an  alteration  only  in 
regard  to  second  marriages  of  spouses   and  not  to    other 
marriages.     He  repeats  that  "hodie  (i.  e.  under  the  Roman 
Dutch  Law)  Viduitatis  conditionem  rejicl  aut  remitti  cons- 
tat: excepto  quod  superstiti  conjugi  ad    tempas  secundarum 
nuptiarum  aliquid  iestamento  relinqui  posait.     The  except- 
ed case  here  as  in   Peckins  is  that  of  a  provision  during 
widowhood  or  celibacy,  which  therefore  is  no  restraint  on 
marriage.  Groenewegen.  De  Leg.  Ahrog.  ad  eod  G.  40.  2.  is  to 
the  same  effect.     On  the  other  hand  Voet  28.  7.  12  and  i;5 
differs  from  Van  Leeuwen  and  Groenewegen  in  their  com- 
ments  on   Justinian's  Novell  22   and  is  of  opinion  that  a 
condition   against   the   second   marriage   imposed   upon   a 
surviving  spouse  should  be  observed  in  order  to  prevent  a 
forfeiture,  though  he  is  at  one  with  all  the  Jurists  as  to  the 
general   rule   that   a   condition   in  restraint   of  marriage  is 
against    public    policy    and   therefore    inadmissible.     The 
controversy,   however,  need  not  concern  us  in  this  case,  for 
taking  the  above  passage  in  Voet  as  the   more  correct  ex- 
position of  the  Roman  Dutch  Law,  the  party  to  be  affected 
by  the  condition  must  be  a  widow  or  widower  who   is  pro. 
hibited  from  entering  upon  a  second  marriage.    Ukku  was 
not  in  that  position,   and  I  think  that   under  the  Roman 
Dutch  Law  the   condition  was  in  her   case  void    and  in- 
operative. 

The  English  law  does  not  appear  to  compel  us  to  a  dif- 
ferent conclusion.  These  too  conditions  in  terrorem  are 
considered  contrary  to  public  policy  and  as  such  void.  In 
Newton  v.  Marsden  (1862)  2  J  and  H  at  page  336,  Vice-Chan- 

VoL  IV. 


(    100    ) 

vyrav,.n  I'liottv  cpllor  Pagp-Wood,  stated,  that  '.'the  law, must  be  taken  to  be 
Fernando      Settled  38  to  malcs  and  Unmarried  femalss,  that  you  cannot 
de  Sampayo,  J.  jjjjp^gg  qjj  them  a  Condition  in  restraint  of  marriage"  and  he 
proceeded  to  consider,  with  reference  to   both  English  and 
Civil  Law  authorities,  and  to  decide  in  the   negative,  the 
question  whether  the  law  should  be  extended  to  a  restraint 
on  the  marriage  of  a  widow.     There  is  also  a  distinction  in 
English  law,  in  the  application  of  the  rule  between  a  legacy 
of  personal  estate  and  a  devise  of  real  estate,  but  for  the  pre- 
sent purpose  it  is  not  necessary  to  notice  it   farther  than   to 
say  that  as  there  is  no  distinction  with  us  in  regard  to  such 
questions  between  personal  and  real  property.   The  English 
rule  of  law  which  is  in  respect  of  a  gift  of  personal  estate  re- 
gards restraint  as  in-terrorem  and  void,  derived  as  it  is  from 
^he  principles  of  the  Civil  Law,  appears  to  me  be  more  re- 
levant on  the  present  question.    Jones  v.  Jones  (1876)  1.  Q. 
B.  D.  279  which  was   cited  to  us  is  no  real  authority  on 
behalf  of  the   respondents.     For  what   the  Court  decided 
there  was  that  on  the  construction  of  the  particular  will 
the  intention  on  the  part  of  the  testator  was  not  to    restrain 
any  marriage  but  to  provide  for  the  devisee  while  she  was 
unmarried.     In  Allen  v.  Jackson  (1875)  1  oh.  D.  399,  it  was 
held  that  a  condition  in  restraint  of  the  second  marriage 
whether  of  a  man  or  a  woman  was  not  void,  and  the  Court 
extended  the  principle  to  the  case  of  the  legatee  other  than 
the  testator's  wife  or  husband.     It  will  thus  be  seen  that  in 
the  English  Law  as  much  as  in  the   Roman  Dutch    Law 
there  are  two  settled  principles  (1)  that  a   general  restraint 
of  marriage  is  against  public  policy  and  void   but  a  provi- 
sion in  restraint  of  marriage  not  as  a  condition  annexed    to 
the  gift  but  as  pointing  out  the  limit  of    the  legatee's   inte- 
rest is  good,  and  (2)  that  the  doctrine  does  not   apply   to   a 
restraint  on  the  second  marriage  of  the  legatee.     It  is   clear 
in   this   case   that   the  will  contained  not  a  mere  limitation 
but  a  condition  in   general   restraint   of   marriage.     It   was 
contended,  however,  that  the   provision   against   marriage 
Vol.  IV. 


(    101    ) 

was  in  the  interests  of  the  testator's  children  by  Ukku 
Menika  and  was  not  a  condition  in  te^rorem,  but  that 
argtiment  can  hardly  be  maintained  in  view  of  the  fact 
that  the  residuary  estate,  into  which  the  lands  devised  to 
Ukku  Menika  were  to  fall  in  the  event  of  her  taking  a 
husband,  was  devised  and  bequeathed  not  only  to  those 
children  but  also  to  the  testator's  brother  Bastian  Fernando 
and  (on  a  certain  contigency)  to  his  legitimate  daughter 
Engeltina.  Further,  Ukku  Menika  never  having  been 
married,  the  law  which  allows  restraints  on  second  marriag- 
es is  not  applicable  to  her. 

For  these  reasons  I  think  the  judgment  appealed 
against  is  erroneous,  and  I  would  allow  the  appeal.  There 
is  no  proof  of  damages,  and  I  would  therefore  give  judg- 
ment for  the  plaintiff  for  the  lands  and  for  possession  with 
costs  in  both  Courts  but  without  damages. 

I  agree. — Wood  Renton  C.  J. 

Proctor  for  appellant — G.  N.  De  Jonkalas 
Proctor  for  respondent — Beven  &  Beven. 


ILAGAPILLAI     v.     SIVAGURU. 

No.  10955  C.  R.  Jaflfna. 

Present: — De  Sampayo,  J. 

19th  June  1916. 

Deed — Forgery — nii/nnl  hij  makei — is  deed  genuine. 

Respondent  impeached  appellant's  deed  as  a  forger;  and  the  only 
issued  raised  at  the  trial  was  whether  the  deed  was  genuine.  The  Com- 
missioner fotind  that  the  deed  was  signed  by  the  person  who  was  alleged 
to  have  executed  it.  He  however  held  the  deed  to  be  a  torgery  on  the 
ground  that  the  deed  was  not  executed  at  a  place  called  N  wheie  it  pur- 
ports on  the  face  of  it  to  have  been  executed  but  at  a  place  called  M. 

Held,  that  on  the  issue    raised  in  the  case  and  in  the  face  of  the 
finding  that  the  deed  was  signed  by    the  alleged  maker,  it   oannjt  be 
held  to  be  a  forgery. 
Vol.  IV. 


Ilagapillai 


(     102    ) 

The   presumption   of  law  in  favour  of  a  notarial  inetrumeut  as  to 

formalities  can  only  be  rebutted  by  very  cogent  evidence. 
Sivflgurn 

<]«  Sunpayo.  J.  Bawtt  K.  G .,  for  defendant-appellant. 

A .  St.  V.  Jayawardene  for  plaintiff-respondent. 

c.  a.  V. 

De  Sampayo,  J.— The  plaintiff  as  heir  of  one  Velu- 
pillai  claimed  title  to  5/9  share  of  what  has  been  called  "sea 
land,"  that  is  to  say,  a  portion  of  the  sea,  at  Kalmunai.  No 
question  has  been  raised  as  to  the  possibility  of  the  existence 
in  law  of  such  a  right,  but  the  1st  and  2nd  defendant  plea- 
ded the  deed  No.  4504  dated  3rd  August  1914  said  to  hare 
been  executed  by  Velupillai  tn  their  favour  for  the  said  5/9 
share.  The  plaintiff  impeached  the  deed  as  a  forgery,  and 
accordingly  the  issue  stated  at  the  trial  was  whether  the 
deed  was  genuine.  The  deed  on  the  face  of  it  purports  to 
have  been  executed  and  attested  on  the  above  date  at  Nallur 
where  the  Notary's  oflfice  is.  There  was  another  deed  of 
the  same  date  executed  before  the  same  Notary  by  a  num- 
ber of  people,  including  Velupillai,  in  connection  with  a 
certain  temple.  Much  of  the  proceedings  was  taken  up 
with  the  question  whether  the  latter  deed  was  executed  at 
Nallur  or  at  Mathuvilnadu,  and  on  the  23rd  August  or  on 
some  day  in  .July  and  in  consequence  the  trial  went  some- 
what awry  and  obscured  the  only  issue  with  which  the 
Court  was  concerned.  In  the  result,  however,  the  Comis- 
sioner  found  that  Velupillai  did  sign  the  deed  No.  4.504  in 
question,  though  he  thought  that  Velupillai  did  so  at 
Mathuvelnadu  and  in  .July  and  not  in  the  presence  of  the 
Notary  and  both  the  witnesses.  There  is  really  no  doubt 
whatever  as  to  the  genuineness  of  the  signature,  and  no 
attempt  was  even  made  to  dispute  it  except  by  suggesting, 
in  the  circumstances  above  stated,  that  Velupillai  could 
not  have  been  at  Nallur  on  the  3rd  August.  The  finding  as 
to  Velupillai's  signature  appears  to  me  to  conclude  the  mat- 
ter and  to  require  the  issue  in  the  case  to  be  decided  in  the 
Vol.  IV. 


(    103    ) 

defendant's  favour.  It  is  contended  on  behalf  of  the  plain-  uagapina 
tiff,  however,  that  the  Commissioner's  judgment  shows  that  siva'garu 
formalities  required  by  the  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1840  and  *'  ^'""'  ■"• 
and  the  Notaries'  Ordinance  as  to  attestation  were  not  ob- 
served and  that  the  deed  therefore  was  not  operative.  But 
no  question  was  raised  in  the  pleadings  or  formulated  at 
the  trial  regarding  the  due  observance  of  those  forma- 
lities, and  in  my  opinion  the  case  should  not  be  disposed  of 
on  such  a  ground.  Moreover,  the  Notary  and  both  the 
witnesses  gave  evidence  to  the  effect  that  the  deed  was  duly 
executed  in  the  manner  and  form  stated  in  the  attestation 
clause.  If,  as  the  Commissioner  thinks,  the  other  deed  was 
signed  at  Mathuvelnadu  early  in  July,  that  circumstance 
supporis  the  defendant's  case,  for  then  it  must  he  held  that 
it  is  quite  possible  for  Velupillai  to  bc^  at  Nallur  on  3rd 
August  and  to  execute  the  deed  in  defendant's  favour.  This 
appears  to  me  to  be  eminently  a  case  to  which  the  obser- 
vations of  Bonser  C.  J.,  in  Arnmiujain  v.  Sanmugain  (1899) 
4  N.  L.  R.  314,  apply.  There  too  the  Court  of  first  instance 
found  that  the  deed  was  genuine,  being  executed  by  the 
party  concerned,  but  as  the  witnesses  had  said  that  they 
did  not  siga  in  the  presence  of  each  other  and  one  of  them 
evcn  denied  his  signature  altogether,  the  Court;  pronounced 
against  the  deed.  The  Chief  Justice  in  appeal  observed 
that  the  District  Judge  h^d  acted  upon  a  dangerous  doctrine 
and  that  the  presumption  of  law  in  favour  of  a  notarial  in- 
strument as  to  formalities  can  only  be  rebutted  by  very 
cogent  svidenee.  The^e  is  no  such  cogent  evidence  in  the 
present  case.  In  any  event,  as  I  have  already  pointed  out 
no  specific  issue  was  raised  on  the  point  at  all,  and  the 
matter  of  formalities  was  wholly  irrelevant. 

In  my  ophiion  the  one  issue  tried  should  have  beon 
decided  in  the  affirmative.  The  judgment  appealed  from  is 
therefore  set  aside  and  the  plaintitt"s  action  dismissed  with 
costs  in  both  Courts. 

Vol.  IV. 


(    104    ) 

Proctor  for  appellant— (?.  N.  Tisseveresinghe. 
Proctor  for  respondent — Oa^ipUlai  &  Kadiravelu. 


THYRIAR     V.     SINNATAMY. 

No.  19340  P.  C.  Jaffna. 

Present: — Shaw  A.  C  J. 

4th   July,    1916. 

^toleii  property— found  in  possession  of  pawn  broker — accused  acquit- 
ted of  theft— Magistrate  discretion  in  directing  restoration  of  property  to 
owner — appeal — Ciiminal  Procedure  Code  §§  413,  33S. 

There  is  no  appe  1  from  an  order  of  a  Police  Magistrate  uDder 
§  413  of  the  Criminal  Prooedura  Cole  reparJing  the  disposal  of  anj-  pro- 
perty produced  before  him  regardinp  whi;h  an  offence  has  been  com- 
mittfd. 

Under  §  413  of  the  Criminal  Prootdure  Code  a  Magistr.ti  has  dis- 
cretion to  direc';  property  produced  before  him,  in  respect  of  which  he 
considers  an  ofifenoe  has  been  committed  to  be  delivered  to  the  )  erson 
who  he  believes  to  be  the  iighttul  owner  although  it  has  been 
producsd  from  some  other  cnstody  and  and  although  the  accused  is 
acquitted. 

The  facts  of  the  case  are  set  out  as  follows  in  the  judg- 
ment of  Shaw,  A.  C.  J: — 

One  Thyriar  charged  Michel  Sinnatamby  in  the  Police 
Magistrate's  Court  at  Jaffna  with  the  theft  of  a  jewel.  A 
search  warrant  was  issued  and  the  jewel  was  found  in  the 
possession  of  the  appell  >nt  a  pawn  broker  and  was  pro  uced 
before  the  Court  at  the  hearing.  The  Magistrate  came  to 
the  conclusion  on  the  evidence  tint  the  jewel  had  not  been 
stolen  by  Sinnatamby  but  by  a  nephew  of  the  complainant 
and  pledged  by  him  to  tb"  appellant.  He  accordingly  ac- 
quitted the  accusbd  and  at  the  conclusion  of  the  case  made 
an  order  under  Section  413  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code 
for  tbe  deliveiy  of  the  jewel  t)  the  complainant.  The  ap- 
pellant has  appealed  from  this  order. 

Vol.  IV. 


Silinatalubv 
Shaw,  A.  C.  J. 


J.  Joseph  for  complainant  respondent. — No  appeal   lies       iiiyriar 
in  this  case.     Section  I! 38  of  the  Criminal   Procedure    Code 
provides  for  appeals  from  Police  Courts  and  District  Courts^ 
Under   that   section   any  person   who   shall  be  dissatisfied 
with  any  judgment  or  final  order  pronounced   by   a    Police 

Court in  a  Criminal  cases  or  matter  to  which    he  is  a 

party  may  prefer  an  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court.  The 
learned  Magistrate  made  the  order  under  Section  413  of  the 
Criminal  Procedure  Code.  That  order  cannot  be  said  to  be 
made  in  a  Criminal  case  or  matter. 

"A  Criminal  case  or  matter"  is  explained  in  the  case  of 
Gunesekere  v.  Jayaratne.  ^  Further  the  appellant  was  not  a 
party  to  the  proceedings  in  the  Police  Court  in  which  Sin- 
natamby  was  acquitted.     Rex  v.  Mack  ^. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayawardetie  with.  Ai  aldiiandan  for  appel- 
lant.— The  appellant  has  been  brought  into  the  case  by  the 
respondent  and  therefore  the  appellant  is  a  party  to  the  case. 
The  Order  of  the  Magistrate  is  grossly  ii-regnlar  and  there- 
fore if  no  appeal  lies  it  is  submitted  that  this  matter  might 
be  dealt  with  by  your  Lordship  in  revision.  [His  Lordship 
intimated  that  he  would  deal  with  the  case  in  revision]. 
In  this  case  the  accused  was  acquitted,  therefore  the  Magis- 
trate should  have  returned  the  article  to  the  custody  from 
which  it  was  taken.  It  would  have  been  different  if  the 
accused  was  convicted.  Then  the  respondent  would  have 
been  entitled  to  ir.  This  m  .Iter  is  concluded  by  authority. 
ThainbijtiUai  v.  Kaiiimwami/K  in  n-  6'i((lash/\.  Naru- 
yan  Valkar  '  . 

J.  Joseiih  ill  rcjiUj.  Section  11.'!  of  the  Criminal  Pro- 
cedure Code  invests  the  Magistrate  with  discretion  as  to  the 
disposal  of  the  article.     It  doi'S  not   say    that  in   case   of  an 

(1)     1  Bal.  151.  (i)     1    BhI.  IIU, 

(3)     IHal.  8!1.  (1)     !1.  Cr.  L.  J.  IC-'. 

Vol.  lY. 


Thyriar 


Sinnatiimby 
Shaw,  A.  C.  J. 


106 

acquittal  the  article  should  he  returned  to  the  custody 
from  which  it  was  taken.  The  Magistrate  has  exercised  a 
judicial  discretion  and  it  is  submitted  this  Court  should  not 
interfere  with  it.    PadisingJio  v.  Jleyer^  ;  Silva  v.  Rajelis  ^  . 

c.  a.  V. 

Shaw,  A.  C.  J.— (His  Lordship  having  set  out  the  facts 
as  above  continued): — I  am  opinion  that  no  appeal  lies. 
Under  Section  .338  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code,  subject 
to  certain  conditions,  "any  person  who  shall  be  disatisfied 
with  any  judgment  or  final  order  pronounced  by  any  Police 

Court in  a  Criminal  case  or  matter  to   which    he    is  a 

party  may  prefer  an  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court.  The 
appellant  was  not  a  party  to  the  proceedings  in  the  Police 
Court  in  which  Sinnatamby  was  acquitted,  and  the  order 
for  the  delivery  of  the  Jewel  to  the  complainant  is  not  a 
judgment  or  final  order  in  a  Criminal  case  or  matter.  See 
ex  V.  Mack,  (IBal.  194,)  GiinesekeraY.  Jayaratna,  (1  Bal. 
154.) 

But  even  if  I  were  to  treat  this  as  an  application  for  re- 
vision I  consider  the  appellant  could  not  succeed. 

There  is  ample  authority  that  the  Magistrate  has  dis- 
cretion to  direct  property  produced  before  him,  in  respect 
of  which  he  considers  an  offence  has  been  committed,  to  be 
delivered  to  the  person  who  he  believes  to  be  the  rightful 
owner,  although  it  has  been  produced  from  some  other  cus- 
tody, and  although  the  accused  is  acquitted,  PodisinJio  v. 
Mcya,  '  Sil ra  v.  Ii'djclis  ". 

The  Section  invests  the  Magistrate  with  a  discretioniiry 
power  and  if  he  exercises  his  discretion  in  a  judicial  man- 
ner, that  discretion  ought  not  to  be  reversed  by  a  higher 
tribunal  exercising  its  power  of  revision.  In  rr  Sadaski,  v. 
Naraycui  ValJiar.  9.  Cr.  L.  J.  1('.:2.  In  the  present  case  the 
Magistrate  has  so  exei'cised  his  discreliun  and  !iis  oider 
should  not  be  interfered   with. 

(1)     1  N.  L.  R.  80.  (2)     1.  C.  L.  R.  39. 

Vol.  IV. 


107 

I  dismiss  the  appeal. 

Proctor  i'or  appellant— .4.  liamalii)f/nni. 

Proctor  for  respondent— J.  .4.  J.  Tissevercsinrjhr. 


PERUMAL    KANGANY    v.     SINNE     PERUMAL. 

P.  C.  Panwila  No.  882. 

Present: — Schneider,  J. 

23rd  August  1916. 

Labour  Orihnanrr—^  11  of  Ordi miner  11  of  lUSb— misunderstand- 
ing as  to  nature  of  contract  of  service— refusal  to  loorh  except  as  Kanaka- 
puUc— Ordinance  No.  13  of  1S89  §  5;  Ordinance  10  of  1905. 

The  accused  was  induced  to  come  to  the  complainant's  estate  on 
the  representation  of  the  Head  Kangany  that  he  would  be  employed 
as  a  KanakapuUe.  After  his  name  had  been  entered  in  the  register  and 
check  roll  he  was  asked  to  do  the  suparyisin?  work  of  a  Kanginy.  He 
refused  and  was  proseonted  under  §   11  of  Ordinance    No.  U  of  1865' 

Zfi^M,  that  there  was  no  contract  existing  between  the  Superinten- 
dent and  the  accused  that  the  latter  should  serve  as  a  Kangany, 

There  having  baen  misunderstanding  aa  to  the  exact  nature  of  the 
contract  of  service,  the  accused  could  not  be  ooavicted  of  'wilful  die- 
obedience'  of  lawful  orders  under  §  11  of  Ordinance  No,  11  of  l8(j,5, 

Appani  V,  Ponniuli^  ;  Mi/miv.  Wecrapj/en^  ;  and  Xotn  .M'l'i/n  v,  Ku- 
ilersu  Kanfiany^    ;  followed, 

The  accused  while  employed  as  a  KanakapuUe  on 
Heerasgalle  Estate  was  promised  by  the  Head  Kangany  of 
Gavatenna  Estate  a  better  position  as  KanakapuUe  and  in- 
duced to  come  over  to  the  latter  estate.  Upon  the  arrival 
of  the  accused  and  some  coolies  under  him  on  Gavatenna 
Estate  their  names  were  entered  in  the  Register,  the  ac- 
cused's name  being  entered  as  Kangany.  When  the  ac- 
cused was  asked  by  the  conductor  of  the  estate  to  supervise 

1.     15  N.  L.  R.  343. 
S.     P.  C.  Matale  (S.  0.  M  12th  Septemher,  1906). 
3.     P.  G.  BaduUa  HaUumulla  (S.  G .  M.  7th  August,  1902). 
Vol.  VI. 


108 

Perumai  as  Kangaiiy  the  work  of  certain  coolies  he  i-efiised,  and 
aagany  gj-^jg^  j-^g  jjg^fj  come  uiidei'  &  contract  to  serve  as  a  Kanaka- 
Sdbndder,  J.  pulTe.  This  prosecution  was  then  instituted.  The  Police 
Magistrate  held  that  the  agreement  between  the  Head 
Kangany  and  the  accused  did  not  bind  the  Superintendent 
of  the  estate  and  that  the  contract  with  the  Superintendent 
was  created  by  the  entry  of  the  name  of  the  accused  on 
the  check  roll  and  register,  and  convicted  the  accused  un- 
der §  11  of  Ordinance  11  of  1865  for  refusing  and  neglect- 
ing to  work.     The  accused  appealed. 

G.  Koch,  for  appellant. — The  learned  Police  Magistrate 
is  wrong  in  holding  that  the  agreement  between  the  Head 
Kangany  and  the  accused  does  not  bind  the  Superinten- 
dent. This  is  a  civil  contract  of  service  and  the  usual  rule 
of  agency  applies.  There  was  no  wilful  disobedience  of 
lawful  orders  on  the  part  of  the  accused  as  he  reasonably 
believed  he  was  only  bound  to  work  as  a  Kanakapulle. 
Eyan  v.  Weerappen^ . 

Although  under  §  5  of  Ordinance  No.  13  of  1889  the 
entry  of  the  accused's  name  in  the  register  and  check 
roll  and  the  receipt  of  the  rice  advances  is  deemed  to  es. 
tablish  a  contract  of  service,  the  nature  of  the  service  con- 
tracted for  must  be  proved  aliunde. 

Further,  the  order  was  not  a  'lawful'  order  as  there  is 
nothing  to  show  that  the  conductor,  who  gave  the  order, 
was  authorised  to  do  so. 

Schneider,  J.— In  this  case  the  Head  Kangany  of 
Gavatenna  Estate  prosecuted  the  appellant  for  refusing  and 
neglecting  to  work  from  the  7th  May,  1916  without  reason- 
able cause  under  §  11  of  the  Ordinance  of  1865,  as  amended 
by  Ordinance  No.  16  of  1905,  The  leamed  Police  Magis- 
trate convicted  the  accused  and  imposed  a  fine  of  fis-  50/-. 
The  accused  appeals.     His  defence  is  that  he  was  employed 

(1)    P.  C.  Matele  (S.  C.  M.  12th  September,  il906). 
Vol,  IV. 


109 

as  a  Kanakapulle  o)i  Heerasgalle  Estate  and  that  the  Head  perumai 
Kangany  who  is  the  complainant  promised  him  a  better  ^°vT°^ 
position  as  Kanakapulle  at  R&  30/-  a  month.  The  com-  sdmeider,  j. 
jjlainant  denies  this  part  of  the  evidence,  but  the  evi- 
dence establishes  that  this  promise  had  been  held  out 
as  an  inducement  to  the  accused.  Upon  the  arrival  o^ 
the  accused  and  some  coolies  under  him  on  Gavatenna 
Estate  their  names  were  entered  in  the  register,  the 
accused's  name  being  entered  as  Kangany.  When  the 
accused  was  ordered  by  the  conductor  of  the  estate  to 
supervise  as  Kangany  the  work  of  certain  coolies  he  re- 
fused, and  stated  that  he  had  come  under  a  contract  to 
serve  as  a  Kanakapulle  and  not  as  a  Kangany.  He  asked 
for  a  tundu  for  himself  and  his  coolies.  In  the  result 
this  prosecution  was  instituted  on  the  8th  June,  1916  ■ 
The  learned  Police  Magistrate  states  that  the  agreement 
between  the  Head  Kangany  and  the  accused  does  not 
bind  the  Superintendent  of  the  estate  and  that  the  con- 
tract with  the  Superintendent  was  created  by  the  entry 
of  the  name  of  the  accased  in  the  estate  check  roll  and 
register. 

In  my  opinion  the  evidence  does  not  establish  that 
there  was  a  contract  between  the  Superintendent  and  the 
accused  that  the  accused  should  serve  on  Gavatenna  Estate 
as  a  Kangany.  It  is  quite  possible  that  the  Superintendent 
may  have  assumed  that  the  accused  had  consented  to  serve 
in  that  capacity,  but  there  is  no  evidence  to  support  that 
assumption.  Patting  the  evidence  for  the  prosecution  as 
high  as  it  could  possibly  be  put  it  is  obvious  that  there  has 
been  a  misunderstanding  und  suCh  a  misunderstanding  as 
as  negatives  the  formation  of  a  contract  of  service  of  the 
nature  upon  which  the  prosecution  is  based.  I  think  the 
evidence  clearly  proves  that  the  accused  came  to  Gava- 
tenna Estate  fully  believing  that  he  was  only  to  do  the  work 
of  a  Kanakapulle.  Tnere  is  no  evidence  to  show  that  he 
refused  to  do  such  work. 
Vol.  IV. 


110 

I  therefore  set  aside  the  conviction  and  acquit  the  accused. 

I  direct  the  attention  of  the  Police  Magistrate  to  the 
case  of  Appavu  v.  Ponniah  (15  N.  L.  R.  342)  and  the  cases  of 
Ryan  v.  Weerappen  and  Natu  Meya  v.  Kadersa  Kangany 
which  are  reported  at  the  foot  of  that   case. 

Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  appellant — J.  D.  Jonkalaas. 


BANDA    ft  al.     v    BANDA    et  al. 

D.  C.  Kurunegala  5756. 

Present: — Wood  Renton,  C.  J.,  and  De  Satnpayo,  J. 

6th  June,  1916. 

Kandyan  Law — illegitimate  son— is  father  /isir  ta  acqnii-ed  prope.Hji  1 
The  father  is  not  the  heir  of  his  illegitimate  child  in  respect   of  th9 
acquired  property. 

Niti  Nigendnwa  pp  13  and  1.5  followed. 

A.  St.  V.  Jayawardene,  for  defendants-appellants, 

E.  T.  dp  Silva,  for  plaintiff-respondents. 

c.  a.  V. 

De  Sampayo,  J. — The  point  of  Kandyan  Law,  which 
the  appeal  mainly  raises,  is  whether  the  father  is  heir  to  his 
illegitimate  child  in  respect  of  the  acquired  property. 
There  is  no  direct  statement  on  this  specific  question  either 
in  the  text  books,  with  perhaps  one  exception  which  will 
be  presently  noticed,  or  in  the  reports  of  judicial  decisions. 
There  is  good  authority  for  the  proposition  that  an  illegiti- 
mate child  succeeds  to  the  acquired  property  of  the  father 
along  with  legitimate  children.  Apjiuhamy  v.  La2Mya,  <S 
N.  L.  R.  328  ;  Be  Sundara,  10  N.  L.  R.  129 ;  Ban  Hamy  v. 
Menilc  Etana.  10  N.  L.  R.  153.  The  exception  among  the 
text  books  I  referred  to  is  the  passage  at  p.  13  of  the  Niti 
Vol,  IV, 


Ill 

Nigend'uwa  on  which  counsel  for  the  plaintiff-respondent  Ba„j^  ^.  b^,,^^ 
in  this  case  entirely  relies.  It  is  there  said  "Procreate  righj.  J' Sampayo,  j. 
gives  a  title  to  a  legitimate  child  from  the  father  and  to  the 
father  from  a  legitimate  child,  but  it  does  not  give  a  title  to 
an  illegitimate  child  from  the  father  or  to  the  father  from 
an  illegitimate  child."  I  was  at  first  inclined  to  think  that 
as  the  first  branch  of  this  proposition  is  shown  by  the  de- 
cisions above  cited  to  require  modification  se  far  as  acquir- 
ed property  is  concerned,  a  similar  modification  so  far  as 
acquired  property  is  concerned,  a  similar  modification 
might  be  necessary  in  the  second  branch  of  it  also,  especial 
ly  as  there  appeared  no  logical  reason  why,  if  the  child 
succeeded  to  the  father's  property,  the  father  should  not 
succeed  to  the  child's.  Bat  the  Niti  Nigedduiita  at  p.  15 
repeats  the  previous  statement  as  regards  the  father  in  still 
more  emphatic  language  thus  ; — "On  the  death  of  legiti- 
mate children  their  father  may  inherit  their  property  by 
blood-right,  but  he  can  never,  as  their  father,  do  this  in  the 
case  of  illegitimate  children."  I  am  able  to  find  no  sure 
ground  on  which  we  may  confidently  refuse  to  give  eflEect 
to  the  rule  so  laid  down.  I  think  we  also  have  to  take 
account  of  the  fact  that  it  is  not  always  possible  to  extract 
a  logical  principle  from  the  rules  of  inheritance  in  the  local 
customary  systems  of  law.  In  the  present  instance  the  rea- 
son for  the  difference  between  the  cases  of  the  father  and 
tha  child  may  perhaps  be  found  in  the  suggestion  of  coun- 
sel for  the  plaintiffs  that  the  Kandyan  law  recognises  an 
obligation  on  the  part  of  a  man  to  provide  for  a  child  for 
whose  birth  he  is  responsible  and  so  allows  the  child  to 
succeed  to  the  father's  acquired  property,  while  no  such 
obligation  attaches  to  the  child.  In  the  Kandyan  law,  the 
right  by  which  the  father  succeeds  to  the  child's  property, 
whenever  he  does  so,  is  described  as  jataka  uruma.  and  it 
is  undoubtedly  the  cnse  that  in  the  treatment  of  the  subject 
the  reference  is  to  the  property  of  a  legitimate  child.  In 
the  absence  of  a  positive  or  direct  authority  to  the  contrary 
Vol.  IV. 


Bauda  v.  Banda  I  am  iiot  prepared  to  dissent  from  the  opinion  of  the  Dist- 

w«.dRent.n.CJ,  j,j^^   Judge  that   the   father  of  an   illegitimate  child    does 

not  inherit  his  property  by  jataka  uruma.     In  this  state  of 

the  law,  I  think  we  must  decide  the   question   involved   in 

in  this  case  in  the  negative. 

The  dispute  in  this  case  is  to  certain  property  which  the 
defendant  transferred  to  his  illegitimate  son-Kirimudiyanse 
who  died  iVnmarried  and  issueless.  Kirinmudiyanse's 
mother  appears  to  have  predeceased  him,  and  administ- 
ration having  been  taken  to  his  estate  the  propei-ty  was 
sold  to  the  plaintiffs  by  three  other  children  of  his  mother 
by  a  different  father.  It  was  argued  that  the  defendant's 
deed  was  not  operative  as  it  was  without  consideration  and 
had  not  been  delivered  and  that  in  any  event  the  vendors  to 
the  plaintiffs  were  not  the  heirs  of  Kirimudiyanse.  The  ori- 
ginal deed  has  not  been  produced  by  the  defendant,  and  I 
cannot  well  say  on  the  evidence  in  the  case  that  it  was  not 
delivered  after  execution,  and  the  District  Judge  held  against 
the  defendant  on  the  issue  as  to  consideration.  As  regards 
the  second  point,  Kirimudiyanse's  mother,  if  alive,  would  of 
course  have  been  his  heir,  and  in  her  default  I  think  his 
half  sisters  were  his  heirs. 

I  would  dismiss  the  appeal  with  costs. 

Wood  Renton,  C.  J.— I  agree. 

Proctor  for  appellant— C  E.  Madawela. 
Proctor  for  respondents— TF.  .4.  0.  de  SUva. 


Vol.  IV. 


(    113    ) 

SEGO   MOHAMADO    v.  MANIPILLAl. 

No.  11092  D.  C.  Jaffna. 

3rd  July,  191G. 

Present: — Ennis,  J.  and  de  Sampayo,  J. 

Land  pii_rc/iaxrr7  hy  defendant  at  Fiscal' s  mle— prior  aalr  hy  Judy- 
7iie.nt — debtor  to  jjlalntiff  before  e.recut  ion— fraud — Can  defendant  ask  for 
cancellation  of  plaintiff  deed  on  the  ground  of  fraud. 

Defendant  was  the  execution  purchaser  of  a  land  at  Fiaoil's  sale 
Plaintiff  who  bought  the  lanl  from  Judgment  debtor  before  execution 
sued  the  defendant  for  declaration  of  title.  Defendant  impeached 
plaintiff's  transfer  as  fraudulent  and  prayed  for  its  cancellation.  The 
District  Judtje  refused  ti  grant  a  canellation  of  the  deed  and  gave  judg- 
ment for  the  plaintiff  on  the  ground  that  the  judgment  debtor  had  no 
saleable  interest  in  the  land  at  the  time  of  the  Fi^cal's  sale. 

Held,  it  was  open  to  the  defendant  to  impeach  the  deed  as  fraudu- 
andto  tray  in  reconvention  thit  it  be  declared  void. 

Uarmanis  v.  Harntanis^  followed. 

C.  a.  V. 

The  1st  defendant  appellant  ^\as  the  purchaser  at  a 
Fiscal's  sale  of  a  certain  land  which  was  sold  as  the  pro- 
perty of  the  2nd  defendant  respondent  in  execution  of  a 
decree  against  the  2nd  defendant.  It  appears  that  the  2nd 
defendant  objected  to  the  application  of  the  judgment-credi- 
tor for  execution  and,  on  the  24th  August  1915,  the  day  be- 
fore the  objection  was  heard,  executed  a  deed  of  tran-fer 
No.  857(S  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff-respondent.  On  the  day 
fixed  foi  hearing  the  objection,  the  25th  August,  1915,  the 
second  defendant  failed  to  appear  and  the  Court  ordered 
execution  to  issue  against  the  property  of  the  second  defen- 
dant. In  pursuance  of  that  order  the  property  now  in  dis- 
pute was  seized  by  the  Fiscal  and  sold  to  the  first  defen- 
dant on  the  29th  November,  1915.  The  plaintiff,  the  second 
defendant's  transferee  filed  action  for  a  declaration  of  titk 

1.  ^',  L.  a.  -yC'-J, 

Vol.  IV. 


(  m  ) 

MohamaJo  agaiiist  the  purchaser  at  the  Fiscal's  sale  (the  first  defendant) 
Maiiipiiiai  Hiid  bis  veiidor  the  second  defendant.  The  first  defendant 
filed  answer  that  the  plaintiff  having  got  his  transfer  frau- 
dulently was  not  entitled  to  vindicate  it  against  a  bona  fide 
purchaser  for  value  without  notice.  The  learned  District 
Judge  refused  to  allow  the  prayer  for  the  cancellation  of 
the  deed,  and  gave  judgment  for  the  plaintiff,  on  the  ground 
that  the  second  defendant  had  no  saleable  interest  in  the 
land  at  the  time  of  the  Fiscal's  sale. 

Arulanandain,  for  appellant. — The  mere  recital  of  the 
relevant  dates  indicate  that  the  second  defendant  and  the 
purchaser  were  perpptrating  a  fraud  on  the  judgment- 
creditor.  All  the  parties  necessary  for  the  Court  to  adjudi- 
cate on  the  question  of  the  fraud  are  made  parties  to  the 
case. 

The  question  of  the  fraud  it  was  held  could  be  gone 
into  in  an  action  for  declaration  of  title.  Naida  v.  Meera 
Saihti^  ;  and  even  in  an  action  under  §  247  of  the  Civil  Pro- 
cedure Code.  Ilarinanis  v.  Harinani.s^ .  This  is  not  a 
case  where  the  legal  title  has  gone  to  a  third  party  who 
was  no  party  to  the  fraud. 

.4.  St.  V.  Jayawardene,  for  respondent. — Contended 
that  the  question  of  fraud  should  be  raised  in  a  separate 
action.  A  Paulian  action  and  an  action  ret  vindicatio  can- 
not be  joined. 

Ennis,  J.— [After  recapitulating  the  facts  as  above, 
continued:] 

In  Suppian  Naidu  v.  Meern  Sailni  (.3  Bal.  129)  (an 
action  for  declaration  of  title  in  which  the  plaintiff's  pre- 
decessor in  title  had  bought  the  land  in  dispute  on  a  wiit 
against  one  who  had  previously  gifted  them  away)  it  was 

1.    3Bul.  m.  2.    10.  N.  L.  R,  332. 

Vol.  W. 


held  that  it  was  open  to  the  plaintiff  to  raise  an  issue  as  to     Moi,f,m!iji 
^vhethe^  the  deeds  of  gift  were  fraudulent  and  that  it  was      Jtai,'ipiii„i 
not  necessary  for  the  decision  of  the  issue  to  make  the     °    °'"''°'  ■* 
donor  a  party  to  the  action.     In  Harmanis  v.  Harmanis 
(10  N.  L.  R.  332)  the  majority  of  the  Court  held  that,  in  an 
action  under  §  247  of  the  Civd  Procedure  Code  where  the 
claimant  bases  his  title  to  the  property  seized  on  a  deed  of  trans- 
fer executed  by  the  judgment-debtor,  it  is  competent  for 
the  judgment-debtor  to  claim  in  reconvention  a  declaration 
that  the  deed  is  void  and  that  the  Court  had  power  to  add 
the  grantor  as  a  party  to  the  case. 

I  see  no  reason  whatever  why  the  defendant-appellant 
should  not  be  allowed  to  add  to  his  plaint  a  prayer  for  a 
cancellation  of  the  deed,  as  the  property  is  in  the  hands  of 
a  person  alleged  to  be  a  party  to  an  alleged  fraud.  If  be- 
fore the  deed  could  be  set  aside  the  person  holding  the 
legal  title  under  it  had  conveyed  it  to  a  bona  fide  purchaser 
for  value  the  matter  might  be  different,  as  the  deed  until 
set  aside  is  valid,  but,  where  the  party  claiming  is  a  party 
to  a  fraud  there  is  nothing  that  I  can  see  which  would  pre- 
vent a  Court  from  depriving,  in  the  action  in  whicn  the 
question  of  fraud  is  raised,  the  legal  holder  of  the  title  of 
gUy  advantage  he  may  have  gained  by  the  fraud.  I  would 
set  aside  the  decree  and  send  the  case  back  for  further 
trial  in  due  course.  The  answer  can  be  amended  and  fur- 
ther issues  framed  if  necessary.  The  costs  of  the  appeal 
should  be  the  costs  ot  the  cause. 

De  Sampayo,  J.— I  agree. 

Proctors  for  appellant — Gasipillai  and  Cathiravelu. 

Proctors  for  respondent— fJooAe  and  Chrysostom. 


Vol.  IV. 


(  m  ) 

ABDT'L    OADER    v.    VELAIDEN  et  oL 

C,  R.  Panwila  3451 

Present '.—Shavf,  A.  C,  J, 

28th  Jnly,  1916. 

GoodD  mid  and  ddiveved—i'iinnhif/  aoconnt—pveitcriptian^  Ordinance 
Ko.SSn/lSn  Serf  ion  9. 

An  actions  for  ffoods  supplied  on  a  runnin?  account  becomes  barred 
by  prescription  after  the  expiration  of  one  year  in  the  supply  of  each 
particular  lot  of  goods    Silea^.AdaUan  Kangany^  followed. 

A,  St.  V.  Jayawardene,  for  the  appellant. 

M.  W.  H.  deSilvn,  for  the  respondent. 

Shaw,  A.  C.  J, — This  was  an  action  for  the  balance  of 
an  account  for  the  goods  sold.  The  Commissioner  of 
Requests  has  found  that  only  Rs-  l/ll  can  be  recovered  by 
the  plaintiff,  because  the  balance  of  the  account  is  barred  by 
the  Prescription  Ordinance.  The  account  was  for  shop 
goods  supplied  and  all  the  items,  with  the  exception  of  the 
one  allowed  by  the  Judge,  were  pi'ior  to  one  year  before  the 
institution  of  the  action.  Section  9  of  the  Prescription  Or- 
dinance, 1871,  provides  that  no  action  shall  be  maintainable 
for  or  in  respect  of  any  goods  sold  and  delivered  unless  the 
same  shall  be  brought  within  one  year  after  the  debt  shall 
have  become  due.  It  is  contended  on  behalf  of  the  ap- 
pellant that  because  the  account  was  a  running  account  the 
time  of  prescription  for  the  whole  of  the  goods  must  be 
calculated  from  the  last  item  of  the  account,  which  is  with- 
in one  year  of  the  institution  of  the  action,  and  in  support 
of  this  contention  the  case  of  Mendis  v.  Mendis^  is  cited 
I  agree  with  the  Judgment  of  my  brother  de  Sampayo  in 
the  more  recent  case  of  Sllva  v.  AdaJikan  Kangany^  that 

(1),     3.  Br:  133.  (2),     3.  A.  C.  R.  121. 

Vol.  IV. 


(    117    ) 

an  action  for  goods  supplied,  as  in  the  present  case,  on  a 
running  account  becomes  statute  barred  after  the  expiration 
of  one  year  in  the  supply  of  each  particular  lot  of  goods 
The  decision  of  the  Commissioner  is,  therefore,  in  my  opi- 
nion right  and  the  appeal  must  be  dismissed  with  costs. 

Proctor  for  appellant— C.  Ariyanayagam 


In  the  matter  of  an  application  by  V.  Coomarasamy 
under  section  32  of  ordinance  No.  22  of  1909  against  a 
ruling  of  the  Commissioner  of  stamps. 

Present: — Ennis,  J.  and  Schneider,  J. 

28th  August,   1910. 

Stiniqi  Oi'iliHinii'i'  Xu.  33  of  WO!) — )i,i)i-tr.ifiiiiir/ibiry  ilisponitinn  of 
proppi-fy — di'rrJ  of  srttU'ment — xtawji  dutij,  si'fl'um  3  (34)  oft/ir  .^tomj)  Ort!- 
hui-ncp 

An  iLStrument  contained  the  following  words: — 

"Know  all  men  by  these  presents  that  we  0.  S.  and  wife  A  execute 
and  grant  a  deed  of  distribution  of  wvfhi(xoni  known  as  deed  of  settlement 

to  our  children The  above  defcribed  four  properties  of  the 

value  of  one  thousand   fiye  hundred  Rupees   we  make  over  in  eqnal 
shares  to  thes  id " 

There  was  no  acceptance  on  the  face  of  it  by  or  on  behalf  of  the 
grantees. 

It  was  contended  that  for  the  purpose  of  f-tamp  duty  the  instru- 
ment falls  under  item  30  (b)  in  Part  I.  of  Schedule  B  to  the  stamp 
ordinance  1909  as  ''a  gift  or  deed  in  which  the  donee  or  some  person 
authorised  by  law  to  represent  the  donee  his  not  expressly  signified 
his  acceptance  of  the  gift." 

Held,  that  the  instrument  was  a  "'settlement"  under  Item  49  in 
Part  I  of  the  Schedule  B  to  the  Ordinance. 

Vol.  IV. 


(    lis    ) 

?,'!■  ffwB/'.s',  ./. -In  my  opinion   an  instrument   is  chargeable   with 
by  Tf'fwm.™"  duty  when  it  falU  witlia  the  ohaiaoter  which  it  purp  rts  to  have  apart 
I'mC^J.       fiom  any  question  aa  to  w  he'. her  or  not  it  is  effective  for  tte  purtow. 

Arulanandan  for  appellant.— The  deed  in  question  was 
executed  by  the  parents  distributing  tlieir  property  among 
their  children.  It  (alls  well  within  the  definition  of  settle- 
ment given  in  sub-section  24  of  section  3  of  the  stamp 
ordinance  No.  22  of  1909.  We  do  not  rely  on  the  fact  that 
the  deed  is  called  a  "deed  of  settlement"  in  the  deed  itself. 
But  the  nature  of  the  instrument  makes  it  come  well  within 
the  definition  of  "settlement."  The  deed  is  therefore 
chargeable  under  article  49  of  Part  I  in  Schedule  B;  and 
not  under  article  30  as  decided  by  the  Commissioner  of 
Stamps.  At  the  lowest  it  is  doubtful  under  which  article 
the  deed  is  to  be  stamped.  The  stamp  ordinance  is  one 
which  imposes  pecuniary  burdens  on  the  subject  and 
should  be  construed  as  favourably  to  the  subject  as  possible, 
[See  Maxwell  on  statutes  429-430.] 

Garvin  S.  0.  for  the  Ciown. — Settlement  is  defined 
in  25,  Halsbury  526.  Settlements  are  alien  to  our  system 
of  laws.  Even  accepting  the  definition  of  "settlement" 
given  in  the  Ordinance  the  deed  in  question  is  not  a  "non- 
testamentary  disposition  of  property."  There  has  been  no 
acceptance  and  therefore  there  is  no  disposition.  Under  the 
R.  D.  L.  the  deed  in  question  would  be  a  donation  where 
there  has  been  no  acceptance.  For  the  purpose  of  determin- 
ing the  nature  of  an  instrument,  we  must  look  to  the  ins- 
trument alone  and  not  to  any  external  circumstance. 
In  Be  Uiellappah  19  N.  L.  B.  116.  The  deed  therefore 
ought  to  be  stamped  as  an  unaccepted  deed  of  gift. 

Arulanandan,  in  Beply.  If  a  deed  purports  to  be  a  dis- 
position of  property  the  Court  need  not  look  behind  it  to 
see  whether  it  is  an  effective  disposition  for  the  purpose  of 
stamping  the  document.  The  "Wills  Ordinance  speaks  of 
Vol.  IV. 


(    119    ) 

testamentary  disposition  of  property.  If  a  will  is  a  stampable  in  rc-iipriiication 
document  it  h;is  to  be  stamped  irrespective  of  its  being  a  s\vmn.' " 
valid  will.  The  heir  or  legatee  may  refuse  to  accept.  It 
cannot  be  argued  that  a  will  need  not  be  stamped  if  it 
becomes  invalid  for  any  sach  or  other  reason.  In  re 
Chellappuh  is  no  authority  as  the  words  of  the  deed  iia 
that  case  are  different. 

c.  a.  V. 

Ennis,  J. — This  is  an  application  under  section  32  of 
the  stamp  ordinance  No.  22  of  1909  by  V.  Coomarasamy 
Proctor  and  Notary  Public,  appealing  against  a  decision 
of  the  commissioner  of  stamps  determining  that  an  ins- 
trument, submitted  for  his  opinion  as  to  the  amount  of 
duty  with  which  it  is  chargeable,  is  chargeable  under 
schedule  B.  Part  1,  article  30.  as  a  gift  in  which  donees 
have  not  expressly  signified  acceptance  of  the  gift. 

The  instrument  in  question,  according  to  the  official 
translation,  purports  to  "make  over"  four  lands  to  the 
children  of  the  donors  in  equal  shares.  The  instrument 
recites  that  the  grant  is  made  as  a  "deed  of  distribution  of 
mutusom  known  as  a  deed  of  "settlement." 

For  the  appellant  it  is  contended  that  the  instrument 
is  one  chargeable  with  the  duty  prescribed  in  article  49 
for  an  instrument  of  settlement. 

It  is  to  be  observed  that  article  49  includes  a  deed  of 
dower  in  an  instrument  of  settlement.  Section  3  (24) 
defines  "settlement"  as  follows: — 

"Settlement  means  any  non-testamentary  di  position 
In  writing,  of  moveable  or  inmoveable  property  niiide  (a) 
in  consideration  of  marriage,  (b)  for  the  purpose  of  distri- 
buting the  property  of  the  settlor  among  his  family  or 
those  for  whom  he  desires  to  provide  or  for  the  purpoae  of 

Vol.  IV. 


(    120    ) 
providing  for  some  person  dependent  on  him;  or.  (c)  fol* 

111  rp-appHcation  .  ,        .      i  n  i    •       i      t 

by  T.  comiiara-  any  rel'gious  or  charitable  purpose,  and  includes   an   agree- 

s^yaniv. 

Ennis,  J.       ment  in  writing  to  make  such  a  disposition. 

In  England  "settlement"  has  been  defined  (25  Halsbury 

526)  as  an  instrument  whereby  property  is  limited  to  or  in 
trust  for  persons  by  way  of  succession. 

In  Ceylon  the  inclusion  of  a  deed  of  dower  with 
settlements  for  the  purpose  of  dnty  and  the  terms  of  the 
definition  of  settlement  which  are  wide  enough  to  include 
direct  gifts  in  certain  cases  show  that  it  was  not  the  inten- 
tion of  the  Legislature  to  limit  the  meaning  of  the  term  to 
the  ordinary  meaning  when  considering  the  character  of  a 
document  for  the  purpose  of  duty.  The  rule  for  the  con- 
struction of  revenue  laws  is  that  they  are  to  be  read  in 
favour  of  the  subject  but  so  that  effect  is  given  to  the  in- 
tention of  the  Legislature  (Maxwell  on  the  interpretation 
of  the  statutes  4th  Ed:  4;30-4;3J:).  The  case  of  In  re  Chelkqipa 
(19N.  L.  R.  116)  decided  that  the  document  only  can  be 
looked  to  to  determine  its  character  and  that  it  must 
contain  words  to  show  that  it  was  made  for  one  of  the  pur- 
poses mentioned  in  section  3  (34)  before  it  is  chargeable 
with  duty  as  a  settlement.  The  present  document  contains 
such  words;  it  is  to  efiiect  a  "distributing"  of  the  property 
of  the  settlors  among  their  "children." 

It  was  finally  submitted  by  the  Solicitor-General  that 
an  instrument  of  settlement  under  the  terms  of  the  defini- 
tion is  a  non-te=tamentary  disposition  of  "property,"  and 
that  by  Roman  Dutch  L  iw  it  would  fall  under  the  head  of 
"donations"  and  would  not  be  complete  until  accepted.  In 
other  Words  it  would  not  be  a  disposition  of  property  until 
accepted  and  could  not  therefore  fall  within  the  definition 
of  settlement  given  in  the  stamp  ordinanre.  On  the  other 
hiind  it  has  been  pointed  out  that  the  words  non-testanioU' 
tary  "disposition  of  property"  have  probably  been  viaed  in 
Vc'l.  IV. 


(    121    ) 

the  stimp  ordinance  in  contradistinction  to  the  worda  j„  re-appiicatioii 
"testamentary  disposition  of  property"  used  in  the  Wills  "^  \'«,J;^;""™- 
Ordinance,  and  that  a  donation  under  a  will  purports  to  be  ''■«"'«'■•  '■ 
a  gift  notwitlistanding  that  the  legatee  may  decline  to 
accept  it.  In  my  opinion  an  instrument  is  chargeable 
with  duty  when  it  falls  within  the  character  which  it  pur- 
ports to  have  apart  from  any  question  as  to  whether  or 
not  it  is  effective  for  the  purpose.  The  settlors  in  the 
present  case  purport  by  the  instrument  to  "make  over" 
certain  lands  to  their  childrfln  and  this  is  a  disposition  of 
property  by  them.  They  have  put  it  in  the  hands  of  others 
to  complete  the  alienation  or  not.  The  acceptance  may  be 
,  inferred  from  conduct  in  the  absence  of  an  express  accept- 
ance and  the  disposition  operates  from  the  date  of  the 
document  just  as  a  gift  under  a  will  operates  from  the 
death  of  the  testator.  There  is  in  fact  a  "disposition"  of 
property  notwithstanding  that  the  "alienation"  is  incom- 
plete. In  the  circumstances  I  am  of  opinion  that  the"  ins- 
trument before  us  in  this  case  is  a  settlement  within  the 
meaning  of  the  term  as  used  in  the  stamp  ordinance  and  is 
chargeable  with  duty  as  sach.    I  would  allow  the  appeal. 

Schne'der,  J. — The  appellant  applied  to  the  Commis- 
sioner of  stamps  under  the  provisions  of  section  30  of  the 
stamp  ordinance,  1909,  to  have  the  opinion  of  that  officer 
lis  to  the  duty  chargeable  in  respect  of  an  instrument  bear- 
ing No.  150,  dated  39th  November,  1915,  and  attested  by 
the  appellant.  The  commissioner  held  that  it  was  charge- 
able with  a  duty  of  R*  22/50  under  item  30  (b)  in  part  1 
of  Schedule  B  to  the  stamp  ordinance,  1909,  as  "a  gift  Or 
deed  of  gift  in  which  the  donee  or  some  person  authorised 
by  law  to  represent  the  donee  has  iiot  expressly  signified 
his  acceptance  of  the  gift." 

The  appellunt  -coiitends  that  it  is  chargeuble  with  a 
Vd.  IV. 


(    122    ) 

,   ,.     duty    of  Us.  7/50   under   item  49  in  Part  I  of  that  Schedule 
'J  ^;„,;r"''"'""  aS  a  'settlement,'  and  appeals  against   the  determination  of 
Scineider,  J.    (jj^g  Counnissioner.     The  material  parts  of  the  translation  of 
the  instrument,  which  i.s  in  Tamil,  are  the  following; 

"Know  all  men  by  these  presents  that  we  Casynatar 
Sinniatampy  and  wife  Annappillai  execute  and  grant  deed 
of  distribution  of  ^Sluthusam  known  as  deed  of  settlement 
to  our  children 

The  above  described  four   properties  of   the  value   of 
one  thousand  five  hundred  Rupees  we  make  over   in    equal 

shaves  to  the  said "     The  instrument  is  signed 

by  the  grantors.  There  is  no  acceptance  on  the  face  of  it 
by  or  on  behalf  of  the  grantees.  In  section  i]  of  the  Stamp 
Ordinance  sub-section  2i  the  teim  "settlement"  is  defined  as 
follows:  "settlement"  means  any  non-testamentaiy  disposi- 
tion, in  writing,  of  moveable  or  immoveable  property  made 

(a)  In  Consideration  of  marriage,  (b)  for  the  purpose  of 
distributing  the  property  of  the  settlor  among  his  family  or 
those  for  whom  he  desires  to  provide,  or  for  the  purpose  of 
providing  for  some  person  dependent  on  him;  or 

(c)  For  any  religions  or  charitable  purpose;  and  in- 
cludes an  agreement  in  writing  to  make  such  disposition." 
In  Sub-section  9  'conveyance'  is  defined  thus:  'conveyance' 
includes  a  conveyance  or  Sale  and  every  instrument  by 
which  property,  whether  moveable  or  immoveable,  or  any 
interest  or  estate  in  any  property,  is  transferred  inter 
vioos,  and  which  is  not  otherwise  specifically  provided  for 
under  this  Ordinance."  This  instrument  would  have  come 
under  'conveyance'  but  for  the  fact  that  it  falls  either  under 
the  head  of  'gift'  or  'settlement'  or  under  both,  and  there- 
fore it  is  an  instrument  specifically  provided  for  under  the 
Ordinance  and  thus  excluded  from  the  term  conveyance. 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  it  ia  a  deed  of  jjift  falling 

Vol.  IV, 


swamy. 
S»!iQeider,  J. 


(    123    ) 

under  30  (h)  because  it  contains  a  voluntary  transfer  of  u  K-m^^^o^ 
property,  and  there  is  no  express  acceptance  on  the  face 
of  it. 

Assuming  for  the  moment  that  it  falls  also  under  the 
term  'settlement,'  to  my  mind  there  is  no  room  for  doubt 
that  in  that  case  it  should  be  regarded  as  chargeable  with 
duty  under  'settlement'  and  not  under  'deed  of  gift'  because 
the  intention  of  the  legislature  is  clear  that  certain  deeds 
of  gift  which  come  under  settlement  because  Ihey  partake 
of  the  characteristics  of  settlements  within  the  meaning  of 
the  Ordinance  besides  being  deeds  of  gift  as  well,  should 
be  charged  with  the  lesser  duty  payable  under  the  head  of 
settlements. 

The  point  at  issue  therefore  resolves  itself  into  the 
question:    Is  the  instrument  a  'settlement'? 

The  learned  Solicitor-General  contended  with  much 
skill  that  it  did  not  come  within  the  term  'settlement' 
as  there  was  no 'disposition' of  property;  that  'disposition 
must  be  taken  to  mean  a  transfer  of  dominium  or  other 
kindred  right,  and  the  instrument  in  question  is  not  effectual 
to  transfer  the  dominium  inasmuch  as  there  is  no  accept- 
ance on  the  face  of  it,  that  of  any  other  acceptance  regard 
cannot  be  had,  because  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the 
nature  of  the  instrument  the  instrument,  and  it  alone,  must 
be  coiisidered.  In  support  of  the  last  part  of  this  argument 
he  cited  30  (2)  of  the  stamp  Ordinance,  and  the  decision  in 
the  matter  of  the  application  and  appeal  of  In  re  Chellappah 
under  section  32  of  the  stamp  Ordinance  which  is  to  be 
found  in  this  Court's  Civil  minutes  of  date  25th  May,  1916. 

I  agree  with  the  principle  of  the  decision  cited  by  him 
and  that  we  must  look  to  the  instrument  and  that  alone  to 
determine  its  nature  or  character.  At  the  argument  I  was 
inclined  to  agree  with  the  rest  of  his  argument  also  namely 

Vol.  IV. 


(    124    ) 

n  i^-appiioAiion  that  'disposition'  must  be  interpreted  to  mean  actual  transfer 

"'  ™«m"-™™'  ^^^  ^hat  an  unaccepted    donation    therefore    was   not   a 

it^iitt.  1.     'jisposition.'     But  on  reconsideration  I  liold  that  the  instru- 

nient  in  question  is  a   'disposition'  within   the  meaning  of 

sub-section  24  of  section  3. 

The  word  'disposition'  is  used  in  a  similar  connection 
as  in  our  Stamp  Ordinance  in  several  English  Acts.  See 
4  Encyclopaedia  of  the  LaAvs  of  England  (Wood  Renton) 
p.  623  under  "  Disposition  ".  The  case  of  Attorney-Ceneral 
V.  Montpfiure  (1888)  21  Q.  B.  D.  461  turned  upon  the  cons- 
truction of  the  word  "  disposition  "  in  section  2  of  the  Suc- 
cession Duty  Act,  ISo.']  (IG  and  17  Vict.  C.  51).  The  mate- 
rial part  of  that  section  is  as  follows  : — "  Every  past  or 
future  disposition  of  property  by  reas.on  whereof  any  per- 
son has  or  shall  become  beneficially  entitled  to  any  property 
or  the  income  thereof  upon  the  death  or  any  person."  In 
that  case  by  an  Indenture  Sir  Moses  Montefiore  made  pro- 
vision for  an  endowment  and  covenanted  that  he  or  his 
executors  or  administrators  after  his  deafh  would  transfer 
certain  Bank  Stock  and  certain  shares  unto  the  names  of 
trustees.  By  another  Indenture  he  declared  that  the 
trustees  should  stand  possessed  of  the  stock  and  shares 
upon  trust  for  certain  charitable  purpose.  By  a  sabsequent 
deed  about  four  years  after  he  covenanted  that  he  or  his 
executors  or  administrators  after  his  death  would  transfer 
a  further  amount  of  Bank  stock  unto  the  names  of  the 
trustees  and  declared  that  they  should  stand  possessed  of  it 
in  the  same  trust.  After  his  death  his  eiecutors  transferred 
the  stock  and  shares  into  the  iiames  of  the  trustees.  It  was 
held  that  the  deeds  showed  a  '  disposition '  by  the  donor. 
Manesty,  J.  said,  "  The  word  '  disposition'  is  employed  in  its 
ordinary  sense  and  when  a  man  covenants  himself  to  trans- 
fer in  his  lifetime,  and  that  if  he  fails  to  do  so  in  his  life 
time  his  executors  or  administrators  shall,  it  is  plain  that  the 
Vol.  IV. 


(    125    ) 

settlor  makes  in  an  ordinarj'  sense  a  '  disposition '  of  so 
much  of  his  property." 

Sub-section  2i  of  Section  3  makes  settlement  to  in- 
clude "  an  agreement  in  writing  to  make  such  disposition." 

The  instrument  shows  that  some  four  allotments  of 
land  are  conveyed  by  parents  to  five  of  their  children  and 
to  a  child  en  ventre  sa  mere.  The  grantors  say  that  they 
are  doing  this  in  order  to  distribute  their  muttusam  or 
ancestral  property  among  their  children.  This  instrument 
therefore  seems  to  me  to  be  a  "  settlement "  because  it  is  a 
non-testamentary  '  disposition ',  that  is,  a  disposition  so  far 
as  the  settlors  are  concerned  by  an  act  inter  vivos  of  im- 
movable property,  "for  the  purpose"  that  is  with  the 
"of  distributing  the  property  ot  the  settlors  among 
their  family."  Even  if  the  instrument  is  not  a  dis- 
poation  it  is  undoubtedly  an  agreement  in  writing 
to  make  such  'disposition'  because  it  "is  an  offer  to 
give  by  way  of  donation  \vhich  that  may  be  at  any  moment 
converted  into  an  actual  transfer  by  accepitance, 

I  agree  therefore  in  allowing  the  appeal,  and  holding 
that  the  instrument  is  chargeable  with,  duty  as  a  'settle- 
ment.' 


LEBBE  MARIKAR  v.  BASTIAN  APPU  HAMY. 

D.  C.  Colombo  No.  44898. 

Present— Shaw,  A.  C.  J.  and  De  Sampayo,  J. 

12th   September,   1916. 

Lease — lessee  tapping  oocoamd  trees  for  toddy—action  for  cancellktion 
of  lease — interim  injunction. 

The  plaintiff  leaeed  to  the  defendant  by  a  deed  a  house  and  garden 
for  three  yeara.  The  defendant  tapped  the  cocoanut  trees  in  the  gar. 
den  for  todiJy.    The  plaintiff  brought  the  above  action  for  a  forfeiture 

Vol,  IV, 


Warikar 

V. 

Bastian 


(  m  ) 

cf  the  lease  on  the  ground  that  the  defendant  was  Uslngr  the  property 
for  the  purpose  for  which  it  was  not  let  and  applied  for  an  interim  in- 
Sk«wrA!  C.  J.    Jt.noticn  restraining  the  defendant  from  tapping  the  trees  till  the  deter, 
mination  of  the  action. 

Jlehl.  that  in  view  of  the  damage  wh!oh  the  plaintiff,  if  Buccessful 
in  this  act 'on,  may  sustain  if  the  defendant  continues  tapping  the 
trees  the  interim  injunction  applied  for  ought  to  be  grantad, 

Tliis  is  an  appeal  from  an  order  of  the  Acting  District 
Jiulge  of  Colombo  (L.  :\r.  Maartinsz  Esq.)  refusing  to  grant 
an  interim  injunction  restraining  the  defendant  from  tap- 
ping the  trees  standing  on  the  leased  promises  till  the  de- 
termination of  the  action. 

Baim,  K.  G.  (with  E.  O.  P.  Jciyatilelce)  for  the  plain- 
tiff-appellant — The  defendant  is  using  the  pioperty  for  a 
a  purpose  for  which  it  was  not  let.  That  it  is  a  misuse  of 
the  property  which  would  entitle  the  plaintiff  to  ask  for  a 
forfeiture  of  the  lease.  The  plaintiff  will  sustun  irremedi- 
able damage  if  an  injunction  is  not  granted. 

A,  St.  V.  Jayaicardene  {y^'xih.  him.  A.  L.  ^.  Aserappa) 
for  the  defendant-respondent — §  87  of  the  Courts  Ordi- 
nance lays  down  the  powers  of  a  Court  to  grant  injunctions. 
According  to  that  Section  the  appellant  is  not  entitled  to 
an  injunction  in  this  case.  [Shaw,  A.  C.  J. — He  would  be 
entitled  under  clause  (1)] .  No.  The  tapping  of  the  trees 
will  not  cause  injury  to  the  plaintiff.  On  the  contrary  the 
effect  of  the  tapping  will  be  to  mike  the  trees  very  productive 
after  some  time.  The  defendant  will  be  able  to  prove  that 
those  trees  were  tapped  for  toddy  before  the  lease  was  exe- 
cuted. The  defendant  cannot,  therefore,  be  said  to  be  using, 
the  property  for  a  purpose  for  which  it  was  not  let. 

Shaw,  A.  C.  J.— The  defendant  in  the  action  is  the 
tenant  from  the  plaintiff  of  a  house  and  garden  in   Colombo 

Vol.  IV. 


Sbaw,  A.  C  J. 


(    127    ) 

holding  a  lease  for  three  years  from  the  first  of  Septemtjer,       Mimkai' 
1915.    The  action  is  brought  for  a  forfeiture  of  the  lease  on       s.iMan 
she  ground  that  the  defend  int  is  using  the  property  for  the 
purpose  for  which  it  was  not  let  to  the  "detriment  of  the 
lessor.    What  is  complained  of  is  that  the  defendant  is  tap- 
ping for  toddy  cocoanut  trees  ia  the  garden  adjoining  the 
house,  which  the  plaintiff  says  will  damage  the  trees  and 
will  make  them  less   productive  at  the  end  of  the  lease,  or 
should  he  resume  possession  of  the  property  before  that 
time.    The  application  giving  rise    to  the  present  appeal 
was  an  application  for  an  interim  injunction  restraining  the 
defendant  from  tapping  the  trees  till  trial  of  the  action. 
The  District  Judge  refused  the  injunction  being  of  the  opi- 
nion that  it  was  applied  for  merely  on  the  ground  that  it 
was  contrary,  to  the  plaintiff's  religious  tenets  that  his  trees 
should  be  used  for  the  mauufactui-e  of  alcohol,  and  he  was 
not  satisfied  that  there  was  any  substance  in  this  objection, 
'ihere  is,  however,  a  more  powerful  objection  urged  by  the 
plaintiff,  namely,  the  damage  which  he  may  sustain  if  the 
defendant  continues  tapping  the  trees  and  the  plaintiff  is 
held  entitled  to  succeed  on  the  trial  of  the  action.     Ia  my 
opinion  the  interim  injunction  ought  for  the  proper  protect- 
ion of  the  defendant  to  be  granted.     I  am  not  going  to  ex-* 
press  any  opinion  as  to  what  should  be  the  result  of  the 
action  that  has  been  brought.     But  should  the  plaintiff  suc- 
ceed he  is  in  danger,  unless  he  obtains  the  injunction  of 
sustaining  damage  which  would  be  avoided  i£  the  injunction, 
was  issued.  The  defendant,  on  the  other  hand,  will  be  in  no 
fear  of  suffering  loss  on  the  issuing  of  the  injunction,  be- 
cause before  obtaining  it  the  plaintiff  will  have  to  give  se- 
curity for  any  damage   the  defendant  may  sustain  by  the 
issue  of  the  injunction,    I  would  set  aside  the  order  appeal* 
ed  frouit  uud  uUow  the  sippeiil  AVith  costs,  directing  that  the 

Vol.  IV. 


de  Snnptpe,  J. 


(    128    ) 

Marikar      injuiiclioii  should  issue  upon  the  plaintiff  giving  security  to 
Bistmn.      the  satisfaction  of  the  Judge  for  any  damage  the  defendant 
may  sustain  in  consequence  of  the  injunction  being  obtained. 

De  Sampayo,  J. — I  sgree. 

Set  aside. 

Proctor  for  plaintiff — A.  G.  Muhanwiadu. 
Proctor  for  defendant— 6.  H.  Ooines. 


Vol.  IV. 


