Silva v. Silva - NLR - 225 of 6 [1903] LKCA 35; (1903) 6 NLR 225 (20 February 1903) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1903 >> [1903] LKCA 35 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Silva v. Silva - NLR - 225 of 6 [1903] LKCA 35; (1903) 6 NLR 225 (20 February 1903) 225 SILVA v. SILVA . D. C., Galle, 5,913. Co-owners - Right of one co-owner to build a house on the common land, without consent of the other co-owner - Injunction - Insufficient grounds for applying for - Civil Procedure Code, s. 667 - Damages. One co-owner cannot build a house on a land held in common without the consent of the other co-owners. Section 667 of the Civil Procedure Code, under which the defendant had obtained an injunction to restrain the plaintiff from building on the land held in common, is intended to punish person; obtaining an injunction on more or less frivolous pretexts. Irremediable damage is not the only sufficient reason for the issue of an injunction. If upon an application for injunction the Court, in the exercise of its discretion, allows the injunction, and damages result therefrom, it would not be right to punish the applicant for possible errors of judgment on the part of the Court which issued the injunction. T HE plaintiff, alleging himself to be entitled to certain undivided shares of a land called Padinchiwatta, complained that the defendant, having failed to obtain a partition of the said land, maliciously applied for and obtained an injunction against the plaintiff on the 27th May, 1898, and prevented him from building, and completing a substantial house which was then being built by the plaintiff, and that from the date of service of the writ of injunction to the final decision of the said case the building and all the materials used for it were exposed and seriously damaged to the extent of Rs. 400. The defendant admitted that he and plaintiff were co-owners of certain shares in the said land, but denied that plaintiff suffered damages by the injunction which was issued at the instance of the defendant. The issues tried were- (1) Whether defendant having a right as co-owner to object to the building of a house by the plaintiff, the plaintiff could claim any damages; and (2) Whether any damages had accrued to the plaintiff by the issue of the injunction. After hearing evidence, the District Judge found that the defendant had probable grounds for praying in the partition suit No. 5,076 for the injunction complained of, and that plaintiff was not entitled to any damages, in that the defendant as a co-owner 226 had a right to object to the building of a house and to restrain him from that act. The plaintiff's case being dismissed, he appealed. The case came on for argument on the 12th February, 1903, before Layard, C.J., and Moncreiff, J. Bawa, for appellant.-The defendant had no grounds for asking for a writ of injunction. One co-owner may restrain another by injunction only when his co-proprietory rights are being violated (Silva v. Adria, 2 S. C. C. 166). So long as a land is being put to the uses for which it was specially adapted, no restraint by injunction is permissible. Hendrick v. Hendrick, decided on 25th January, 1898. If the land was purchased for a particular purpose, operations by one co-owner in furtherance of it are not necessarily an infringement of the other co-owner's right. The land owned by the parties was bought by the parties for building purposes. If a building was put upon it.. it cannot be said to injure the rights of the co-owners. It rather benefits them. Moreover, plaintiff had done nothing new at the time defendant applied for the injunction. The defendant had allowed the plaintiff to raise the walls of the house without objection, and it was not open to him to restrain the continuance of the walls (Voet, 10, 3, 7). By section 667 of the Civil Procedure Code a person taking out a writ of injunction on insufficient grounds, or a person whose action is dismissed after the issue of the injunction granted, is liable to compensate the party on whom the injunction has been issued for the expense or injury caused to him. The defendant's action for partition in which the injunction was applied for and granted was dismissed, and as much loss has accrued to the plaintiff, he was right in coming into Court for the recovery of the damages alleged and proved. Seneviratne (with him Prins), for defendant, respondent.- The 667th section is not applicable to the present case, because the award of compensation against the party who had obtained the injunction must be made in the same decree which dismissed the action. The plaintiff in the present suit, who was the defendant in the partition suit, did not apply to the Court for compensation in that suit, nor was any award made therein. He has chosen a different remedy by way of the present action. He should now prove that the injunction was improperly issued, which he has failed to do. A co-owner has no right to put up on demolish a wall without the consent of the other co-owner. In Silva v. Corea (3 Lornez 312), it was held that it is only with the acquiescence, expressed or implied, that a co-tenant can build, a 227 wall in the common land. Voet gives reasons for this rule (8, 2, 16). The defendant had good materials for praying for an injunction, and when the injunction was granted the present plaintiff did not appeal against that order. Bawa, in reply. Cur. adv. vult. 20th February, 1903. Layard, C.J.- The main point to be decided on this appeal is whether the plaintiff was entitled to build a house on the land owned by him in common with the defendant. In support of the defendant's case reference has been made to Voet (8, 2, 16), which is an authority that a co-owner may not without his co-owner's consent do anything to a common wall, the test being whether the act sought to be done would prejudice the neighbour as to the community of the wall. Reference was further made to Voet (10, 3, 7), where it is laid down that one co-owner may do nothing to a* thing owned in common without the leave of the other co-owner, and anything built without such consent on common property may be ordered to be pulled down. Bonser, C. J., commenting on this passage in D.C., Galle, 3,027, says: " By this I understand that it is not competent for one co-owner against the will of the other to deal with the property in a manner inconsistent with the purpose for which the joint ownership was constituted, but I do not understand the law to prohibit one co-owner from the use and enjoyment of the property in such manner as is natural and necessary under the circumstances." In the course of argument reference was made to a judgment in Silva v. Corea (3 Lornez, 312), where an injunction was refused to a co-owner applying for one to restrain the other co-owner from erecting a building, the ratio decidendi being that the damage was not irremediable, as the building could be pulled down or the land partitioned, and further that there was a custom for co-owners to erect buildings without the leave of other co-owners. There is in this case no evidence of such a custom before the Court. The attention of this Court does not appear to have been drawn, in the case of Silva v. Corea, to the above cited passage in Voet, and, moreover, the case was not decided on section 87 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1889, which was not then enacted. The material facts in this case are these: that the defendant objected to the plaintiff building the house from the commencement, and notwithstanding the defendant's objection the plaintiff continued to build the house, and the defendant then sought to prevent the plaintiff by process of Court and obtained an 228 injunction. The building was stopped, and the plaintiff alleges the materials were damaged by exposure to the weather, no roof having been put on. The action brought by the defendant against plaintiff was dismissed, and thereupon plaintiff instituted this suit for damages, which was dismissed on the ground that there was reasonable cause for applying for the injunction within section 667 of the Civil Procedure Code. Now, the act of building without obtaining the consent of the co-owner upon land held in common is a violation of that co-owner's rights, upon the authority of the passage in Voet above referred to. Certainly the building is an act prejudicial to the community of the land. It converts part of the land to another use from that to which it was previously devoted. The suggested answer is, the defendant could have obtained a partition, but it is on record that his suit for partition was dismissed. Is it an answer to an allegation of a wrongful use of land held in common to say that, if defendant had instituted a partition suit (which he ought no to be compelled to do) and if a partition had thereupon been decreed, he would have suffered no damage? I think not. It appears to me there was sufficient ground for applying for the injunction, and that the defendant is not answerable for the loss occasioned by its issue. The plaintiff's proper course was to ask defendant's permission before building, and if that was refused to institute a partition action. Section 667 of the Civil Procedure Code says that, if there is insufficient ground for applying for an injunction, the party obtaining it is liable for the damage occasioned to the other party by its issue. It seems to me to be going too far to lay down, as was said in 3 Lorenz, 313, that unless the damage sought to be restrained is irremediable, the grounds of the application are insufficient. There is after all the discretion of the District Judge intervening between the application for the injunction and its issue. I prefer to regard section 667 as being intended to punish persons obtaining injunction on more or less frivolous pretexts, and not to punish persons for possible errors of judgment of the District Judge who grants them an injunction. I would therefore dismiss plaintiff's appeal and affirm the order of the District Judge with costs. Moncreiff, J.- The plaintiff has laid no foundation for his action. He built a house on the common land invito socio, and complains that his co-owner induced the Judge of the District Court to restrain him by injunction. He must know his position very well- invito uno socio, nihil novi per alterum protest fieri in re communi. And he 229 knows that whatever is done in breach of his co-owner's right may be undone or prevented by process of law. He says he was doing nothing prejudicial to his co-owner. That might be an answer if the fact were established, on the principle that the law does not trouble itself with trifles. But we know nothing of this. It is said that the injunction should not have issued without proof that the continuation of the building would cause irremediable mischief. But, for all we know, the Judge may have been satisfied not only that the building was prejudicial to the defendant's rights, but that it was likely to be productive of irremediable injury. So far as I know, there is no custom such as is appealed to in the case cited from Lorenz (1859, 312), by which co-owners can build at pleasure invito socio. I would not say that in no case can a co-owner build without expressed consent. Building might be a natural and necessary act. If the land were fit for paddy, I conceive that one co-owner could not forbid another to cultivate without reason given, nor could consent be required for an act sanctioned by the practice of the co-owners, or which is a natural or necessary element of their co-ownership. But we have no material enabling us to say that this building did not come within the quid novi contemplated by Voet. I agree also with the Chief Justice that the right to ask for partition does not necessarily supply a complete remedy for injury inflicted by the innovation of a co-owner. I can conceive cases in which an injunction should issue and I have no means of saying that an injunction should not have issued in this case. I agree that the appeal should be dismissed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1903/35.html