(i)
What would you suggest as an alternative to a Partition Action? Explain the steps to be
taken to pursue the alternative cause of action.
(04 marks)
(ii)
Dinuk has requested you to draft an Indenture, of Lease to lease out his block of land after
the division of property. The Lessee is OMEGA (Private) Ltd. Draft the Testimonium clause
of the Indenture of Lease.
(02 marks)
(iii)
The Notary retained by the buyer of Anuk's divided block of land has drafted the deed of
Transfer and forwarded it to you for perusal. You observe that he has kept the Schedule
blank. How do you describe the block of land in the Schedule that should be incorporated in
this Deed of Transfer?
(06 marks)
(iv)
Who should pay the Stamp duty in this Deed of Transfer and to whom should it be paid?
(03 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
08. (1) What does the Apartment Ownership Law provide for? Discuss the types of buildings that this
Law shall be applicable.
(04 marks)
(ii) What is a Condominium Parcel?
(02 marks)
(iii) What is a Condominium Deed of Declaration? Specify 10 items that should be included in such
a Declaration.
(09 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
09. (i) Kamal Perera executed an Indenture of Lease and leased out a house owned by him situated in
Nugegoda to Jayantha de Siva. Subsequently Kamal Perera mortgaged this house to a Lending
Institution and obtained a loan but the Lending Institution informed him that they need their
Mortgage Bond to get priority. Kamal seeks your advice. Advise him.
(05 marks)
(ii) Kamal Perera has noticed the following wording in the Mortgage Bond "therefore hereby
renouncing the beneficium non numerate pecuniae do hereby engage and bind
himself....."How do you explain this to him?
(03 marks)
(iii) Kamal Perera obtained a loan of Rs.3,000,000/- from the Lending Institution.
a). What is the stamp duty payable on the Mortgage Bond? You should show the mode of
calculating the stamp duty.
(03 marks)
b) Who should pay the Stamp duty for this Mortgage Bond and to whom should it be paid?
What is the procedure?
(04 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
Page 4 of 4
HS
d
0395
CamScanner