2. Kapila Fernando who owns the adjacent block of Lot A2 has no access to the main road. After
Ananda Senerath purchased Lot A2 he asked him whether he could purchase the right of way
over the road reservation marked Lot R1 to go to the main road. Can Ananda Senarath sell the
right of way to Kapila Fernando?
(4 marks)
3. Will Kapila Fernando be able to gain access to his allotment of land over the road reservation
marked Lot R1 if it is vested in the Kaduwela Municipal Council? Give reasons. (3 marks)
4. The new owners of Lot Al and A2 intend to construct 2 houses in the land. What precautionary
actions should they take when getting Building Plans drawn for this purpose? (4 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
06) 1. The Notary resides in Gangodawila. He attests a Deed affecting a property in Nuwara Eliya.
What are his duties in respect of the Original and Duplicate of the Deed? Discuss. (2 marks)
2. The notary is licensed to practice in Colombo. He lives in Battaramulla. He is employed to
draw up the Last Will of his client who lives in Mt Lavinia. The client is not able to leave Mt
lavinia as he is bedridden. How the Last Will could be executed? Discuss.
(3 marks)
3. Wimal wishes to purchase a portion of a Rubber Estate Situated in Ratnapura. He requests you
to attest the Deed. You are a Notary licensed to practice in Colombo. What steps should you take
before drafting the Deed?
(5 marks)
4. How could a Notary in Colombo examine title to a land in Kegalle and advice the client
without going to Kegalle Land Registry?
(2 marks)
5. Your client is living in Australia and he intends to sell his house in Rajagiriya. How could he
execute an Agreement to sell and the Deed of Transfer without coming to Sri Lanka? Discuss the
total duty of the Notary in completing these transactions.
"(3 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
*
07) 1. What are the formalities required by our Law for the execution of a Will or Codicil?
(4 Marks)
2. Write 4 ways of revoking a Will or a Codicil.
(3 Marks)
3. Sarth Perera of No.14, Saranankara Mawatha, Dehiwala gives you a copy of his Last Will
bearing No.3250 dated 8th August 2009 attested by Peter Perera Notary Public and states that he
wants to change clause 5 in the Last Will such that he would give his House and property called
Malwatta at Moratuwa to his Daughter Himali and his house at No.14, Dammadara Mawatha,
Ratmalana to his son Hemal both subject to life interest of his wife Kumudu. He also wishes to add
to the Last Will a clause thereby that he would give Rs.250, 000/- in cash to his driver Bandula and a
sum of Rs.50, 000/- to his servant Karunadasa. All other clauses in the Last Will would remain
unchanged.
Draft the Codicil to Last Will No.3250
(4 Marks)
3
28
CamScanner