Question No 5.
Write short notes on each one of the following:
A. 1.When is a notary exempted from divulging secrets confided to him?
(1 mark)
2. What should a Notary look out for when attesting a Deed drawn up by any other person?
(1 mark)
3.What Deeds a Notary should not execute?
(1 mark)
4.What rules are provided in respect of Deeds drawn up on several sheets of paper? (1 mark)
5.The executant has signed in Japanese. What is the duty of the Notary in a situation like this?
(1 mark)
M
B. A Deed of Partition has been executed before 2 Notaries. The land is situated in Kurunegala
and the Deed was prepared by Nimal Perera a Notary practicing in Kurunegala. Two parties to the
deed executed the deed before him. The 3rd party was residing in Kandy and wanted the Deed to be
sent to Notary Kamal Guneratne a Notary practicing in Kandy. The 3rd party executed the Deed
in Kandy. What are the duties of Nimal Perera and Kamal Guneratne regarding the deed executed
before them?
(5 marks)
3²1-r
C. Lal Peiris is a Notary practicing in Colombo. Waruna Liyanage a friend of Lal Peiris wishes to
purchase a house and property in Matara and wants it to be attested by Lal Peiris. The market value
of the property is Rs.1,000,000/-
1.How can Lal Peiris attest this Deed?
(1 mark)
2.What is the duty cast on Lal Peiris regarding this Deed as the land is situated outside the
District in which he resides?
(2.marks)
3. What is the value of stamp duty payable on this?
(1 mark)
4.Where should Lal Peiris pay stamp duty for this Deed?
(1 mark)
(Total 15 marks)
Question No 6
1. Mallika De Silva met with an accident and was seriously injured. She is warded in the accident
ward in the Colombo National Hospital and shown her desire to write her Last Will. Is it possible
for a Notary to execute her Last Will? Write a full note as to how it could be done. Mallika is from
Homagama.
When answering must consider the requirements in Rule 31 of the Notaries Ordinance and Sec. 4 of
the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance.
(5 marks)
2. She desires to give all her properties to her 3 children Kasun, Vikum and Amali in equal shares
subject to life interest of her husband Gamini De Silva. Draft the Last Will of Mallika De Silva.
She wants to appoint her eldest son Kasun the Executor of her Last Will. She wants to give all
the monies in her Bank Accounts to her husband Gamini De Silva and a sum of Rs. 100,000/- to her
faithful servant Baby Nona.
(attestation not required)
(10 marks) 32
(Total 15 Marks)
M
CamScanner