чим ро
4. Sarath Perera is not known to you. He signs in sinhala as "S. Perera". He has brought 2 friends
namely Ranjith De Silva and Kamani De Silva both of No.20, Sri Saranankara Rd, Dehiwala who are
known to you and who sign in English characters. You are a Notary Licensed to practice in Sinhala.
Draft the Attestation of the said Codicil
(4 Marks)
(Total 15 marks)
08)
1880
1.What is the purpose of the Apartment Ownership Law?
(2 marks)
2. What are the differences between a Normal Survey Plan and a Survey Plan prepared for the
registration of a Condominium property?
(2 marks)
3.What particulars are required to be inserted in the Condominium Deed of Declaration.( write 7)
(3.5 marks)
4. What particulars are required to be inserted in the Condominium Plan? (write 7) (3.5 marks)
5. Ranjith Silva commenced building a Condominium with ten apartments, in his property
situated in Rajagiriya in 2016. He entered into 10 Sale and Purchase Agreements with 10
prospective buyers to sell these apartments ranging from Rs. 28 million upwards. The apartment
was completed in 2018. What documents should the Notary of the Developer and the Notary of
the Purchaser prepare for the purpose of giving each buyer the ownership of each separate unit?
The apartment has not been previously registered.
(4 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
09) Sudesh Perera wishes to purchase a land in Colombo and gets the services of a Notary to do a Title
Search at the Colombo Land Registry. From the Title Search the Notary found in the folio where
the land is registered -
1.that the land is mortgaged to Sampath Bank; and
2.that there is a Caveat filed by one Palitha Perera
When these things were brought to the notice of the owner of the land he said that he is taking steps
to settle the loan and the Caveat has been filed by a party who is interested in purchasing the land.
1. If you are the Notary of Sudesh Perera how would you advice him to get the title cleared in this
Land and the precautionary actions he should take to secure land from selling it to some outsider
other than to Sudesh Perera? Discuss step by step.
(8 marks)
2. Write short notes on 2 types of notices that are being discussed when answering this question.
(7 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
4
g's