3. Nimal executed a Deed of Transfer to sell a land owned by him to Sunil. Sunil is awaiting a Loan
from the Bank. In order to expedite the granting of the loan the Bank advised him to register a Priority
Notice. What is a Priority Notice and what is the effect of the registration of the same?
(4 marks)
4.What are the advantages of registering a priority notice?
(3 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
Question No. 8
Answer the following questions and give reasons for your answers.
1. The Notary knows the testator who wishes to execute a last Will and who is sick and taking
treatment warded in a hospital. He is of the opinion that the testator is of sound mind memory and
understanding. What are the precautions, the Notary should take relating to witnesses when the Last
Will is executed by the Testator?
(3 marks for a complete answer).
2.One of the executants in a Deed of Transfer does not know to sign in any language and his brother
the other executant signs in Sinhala The Notary has a license to practice in the English language. What
are the instructions the Notary should give the executants to enable him to duly execute the instrument.
How should he certify such signatures?
(3 marks for a complete answer)
3. There are three parties to a Deed of Partition of a property in Galle to be executed before you. You
are a Notary who has a License to practice in Colombo. One party to the Partition Deed is in Galle
who is bedridden and unable to come to your office. But the other 2 parties are residing in Colombo
and can come to your office to execute the Deed. Give 2 methods by which you could arrange to have
the Deed of Partition executed by the party who is bed ridden and the precautions you should take to
ensure the Deed will be signed by all three parties.
(3 marks for each method - 6 marks for a complete answer)
4. The children of a testator inquire from the Notary as to whether he has attested a Will executed by
their father. The testator is alive. Should the Notary divulge the information?
(3 Marks)
(Total 15 marks)
Question No. 9
1. Gamini Perera and his predecessors in title had been in undisturbed and uninterrupted
possession in premises bearing Assessment No. 20, High-level Road, Gangodawila, Nugegoda
which possession is adverse and independent to that of any other for over 40 years of the land
marked Lot A depicted in Survey Plan No. 1234 dated 15/3/1995 made by Anil Silva
Licensed Surveyor in extent of 22 perches of the land called Kahatagahawatta situated in
Gangodawila in the Palle Pattu of Salpiti Korale in the District of Colombo Western Province.
He consults you as a Notary. What type of a Deed will you draw up for better manifestation of
title? Discuss.
(5 marks)
2. Draw up the necessary Deed for this purpose. (attestation not required)
(10 marks)
02 01
(Total 15 marks)
4
a
8