02. Gamini Perera intends to purchase a house and property situated in Ratmalana bearing Assessment
No. 23, 1st Lane, Ratmalana. He applied for a loan from the Mortgage Bank and the Bank approved
his Loan and informed him to get a certain Notice registered in the Land Registry and submit
together with the folio in order to release the Loan on the simultaneous execution of the Transfer
Deed and the Mortgage Bond without awaiting the completion of registration formalities.
(i) Name this Notice. Write a short note about it
(05 marks)
(ii) What are the advantages in Registering this Notice
(04 marks)
(iii) Draft this Notice to be submitted to the Land Registry
(04 marks)
(iv) Gamini Perera is hoping to obtain a loan of Rupees 3 Million from the Bank. Calculate the stamp
duty payable by him on the Mortgage Bond.
(02 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
03. (i) Draft a Power of Attorney to be executed in England authorising the Attorney to sell a house
at Malabe for a sum not less than Rupees Thirty Million (Rs.30,000,000/-). (attestation not
necessary)
(09 marks)
(ii) How can a Power of Attorney be revoked?
(02 marks)
(iii)What is the procedure to be followed to register the cancelation /revocation of a registered
Power of Attorney?
(04 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
04.
(i) Nimal Perera is a Notary practicing in Colombo. Waruna Liyanage a client of his said that his
father who is very sick and bed ridden living in Kandy wishes to execute a Partition Deed by
himself together with his two brothers and wanted Nimal Perera to attest it. A Notary in Kandy
is willing to visit the bed ridden father and get it executed by him. The other two brothers are
willing to come to Colombo to execute it before Nimal Perera. What are the rules set out in the
Notaries Ordinance in a situation like this?
(03 marks)
(ii) Gayan Alwis is a Notary licensed to practice within the High Court Jurisdiction of Galle. His
client Anura Fernando wishes to purchase a property in Ratnapura from a person living there
who is unable to travel to Galle due to ill health to execute the Deed. Write 2 methods Gayan
Alwis could advice his client to execute a valid Deed of Transfer. In which method Gayan
Alwis himself could attest the deed of Transfer?
(03 marks)
(iii) State the duty of a Notary regarding the cancellation of adhesive stamps affixed to Deeds as
payment of stamp duty.
(03 marks)
(iv) What is the Procedure to be followed by a Notary when he intends to change his office or
discontinue practice?
(03 marks)
Page 2 of 4
823
Plis
Scanned with
CamScanner