02)
C0
Kusum Jayawardana wishes to lease out the upstair of her house bearing assessment No. 30/1
situated at Nawala Road, Rajagiriya to Ravi Perera at a monthly rental of Rs. 75,000/- for a period
of 2 years. She requests for a refundable deposit of Rs. 200,000/- and 1 year rent to be paid in
advance to be set off against the rent payable in the 2nd Year at the execution of the Lease
Agreement. Further she says that the lessee should bear the cost of repairs upto a sum of Rs.
10,000/- at any one time and that he should not do any structural repairs to the premises. Also
without her consent he cannot assign, sublet or part with the possession of the demised premises.
The Lessee should pay the water, electricity and telephone bills and that at the end of the term
should hand over vacant possession in the same good order.
1) Calculate the stamp duty payable in this Lease Agreement.
2) To whom do you pay this Stamp Duty?
3) Draft 5 Covenants of the Lessee to be included in the Lease Agreement?
4) What is a Reddendum clause in a Lease Agreement?
5) Draft the Reddendum clause in this Lease Agreement.
(2 marks)
(2 marks)
(5 marks)
(2 marks)
(4 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
03)
1. If a limited liability Company wishes to mortgage. its immovable property in favour of a
Licensed Commercial Bank what steps should the company take before executing such a
mortgage?
(3 marks)
2. What should the Notary on behalf of the Mortgagee examine before executing the Mortgage
Bond?
(2 marks)
3. What is the effect of Section 46 of the Mortgage Act?
(2 marks)
4. What is the purpose of obtaining a declaration under section 47A of the Mortgage Act and
when and how can such a declaration be obtained ?
(6 marks)
5. Calculate the stamp duty payable on this Mortgage Bond where the loan is for Rs.5 million.
(2 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
04) 1. What are the matters that a Notary must direct his attention when a deed is to be signed by an
attorney? (give 7 points)
(7 marks)
2. Draft an Attestation where a deed has been executed by an attorney on behalf of a principal.
(8 Marks)
(Total 15 marks)
05) 1. Nimal Perera the owner of Lot A in extent of 40 Perches and a right of way over the road
reservation marked Lot R1 to go to and from Lot A. Nimal Perera sub divided Lot A into 2
allotments marked Lots Al and A2 and sells Lot Al together with right of way over the road
reservation marked Lot R1 to Sunil Silva. Ananda Senerath has negotiated with Nimal Perera to
buy Lot A2. Can Nimal Perera sell to Anada Senerath the right of way over the road reservation
marked Lot R1 when selling Lot A2? Give reasons.
(4 marks)
2
2.
S
Scanned with
CS CamScanner