Question No. 05
Saman who is a Notary having Notary License to practise in the Judicial Zone of Colombo is employed as
a legal officer at a Real estate company in Colombo. Saman's employer instructs him to execute a Deed
of Transfer on urgent basis.
(i) Can Saman execute the said Deed without checking the title at the land registry? Explain with the
provisions in Notaries Ordinance.
(4 marks)
(ii) The said land is situated in Kurunegala. Can Saman attest the said Deed? Explain.
(4 marks)
(iii) Saman failed to comply with rules set out in section 31 of the Notaries Ordinance when attesting the
said Deed. Could the Deed which is attested by him get invalidated? Explain.
(3 marks)
.
(iv) Saman's residence is in Kurunagala and he intends to join the Kurunegala Branch of the said Real
estate Company. Explain the procedure according to Notaries Ordinance when a Notary intends to
change his office.
(4 marks)
(Total =15 marks)
Question No.06
Kamal Perera is in occupation in a land situated in Homagama since 1980 by long and prescriptive rights.
He wants to get a title certificate to his land under the Registration of Title Act No. 21 of 1998. Kamal
Perera retained Sureka Pathirana as his Notary.
(i) After the investigations made by the Commissioner of Title settlement, to what type of class of title
would Kamal be eligible?
(4 marks)
(ii) Could Sureka inspect the title register and cadastral map on behalf of Kamal? Can she get certified
copies of the said documents?
(4 marks)
(iii) Kamal gifted the said land to his son Subash. The instrument was executed by Sureka on 2nd January
2026. Sureka failed to send the instrument for registration and she realised her failure on 12th
January 2026.
Is it mandatory to register an instrument under the Registration of Title Act? Within how many days
shall an instrument be forwarded for registration?
(4 marks)
(iv) Who can present an instrument for registration according to the Registration of Title Act? (3 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
=
Page 3 of 4
15
Scanned with
CamScanner