(vi) While the caveat is in force Romani is notified by the Registrar of Lands that a document
affecting the land is presented for registration. Within how many days has an action to be
commenced by Romani?
32(3)
(1 mark)
(Total 15 marks)
- 30 days
Question No.05
Mala is living with her daughter in Kurunegala. She intends to lease out her own house in
Colombo for a monthly rental of Rs. 100,000/ for two years to Sheela. The rentals of the house
have to be paid on the 20th day of each month commencing from 2020. Mala obtained a
refundable deposit of Rs. 300,000/ from Sheela. She also obtained an advance payment of
Rs. 600,000/ and intends it to be set off against the 1st year's monthly rental.
(i) Calculate the stamp duty payable on the lease agreement.
(3 marks)
(ii) How much will Sheela have to pay as monthly rental during first year?
(2 marks)
(iii) Mala intends to visit her son in Australia. Mala has given a Special Power of Attorney to
her daughter Visaka to sell the said house in Colombo in 2017. Can Visaka execute the
said lease agreement with Sheela on behalf of Mala if Mala travels to Australia? Advise
Mala as to how to execute the lease agreement in her absence.
(5 marks)
(iv) Draft 5 covenants of the lease to be included in the lease agreement
(5 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
✓QuestionQuestion
No.06
(i) What are the duties of a Notary set out in Section 44 of the Registration of Title Act No. 21
of 1998?
(3 marks)
(ii) What is the difference between Registration of Title and Registration of Documents
Ordinance?
(5 marks)
(iii) Explain briefly the steps to be taken by the Commissioner of Title Settlement for initial
compilation.
10-13
(5 marks)
(iv) Nimal is the caretaker who is looking after land parcel 006 in cadastral plan No. 521521
situated in Homagama, the property of Kamal who is working in Australia. Kamal visits
Sri Lanka annually. Nimal has prepared a Deed of Declaration and intends to claim
prescriptive rights over Kamal's property. Discuss stating the relevant provisions in the
Registration of Title Act
(2 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
Question No. 07
(i) There are 4 parties in a Deed of partition of a property in Tangalle to be executed before a
Notary who has a license to Practise in Colombo. One party to the deed of partition resides
in Tangalle and is unable to come to Colombo. However, the other three parties are residing
in Colombo. Discuss as to how all parties can sign the said Deed of partition. (4 marks)
Page 3 of 4
2
Scanned with
CamScanner