(v) The testator of a Will wants one of the beneficiaries in his Will to sign as an attesting witness of
the Will. As the Notary attesting this Will advise your Client.
(03 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
5. (i) Set out the mode of Description of lands in Instruments and where the Instruments shall be
registered as specified in Sections 13 and 14 of the Registration of Documents Ordinance.
(06 marks)
(ii) What are the grounds for refusing to register an Instrument submitted for registration, by the
Registrar of Lands?
(04 marks)
(iii). How can a person vary or reverse an order of the Registrar refusing to register an Instrument?
(02 marks)
(iv) How can an error or omission made in registering an Instrument be corrected? (03 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
6. Your client wishes to purchase a house and property situated at Station Road Dehiwala within the
fimits of Dehiwala Mount Lavinia Municipal Council.
devolved upon
Examination of encumbrance sheets at the Delkanda Land Registry showed that Lot 3 of
Kajugahawatta in Final Partition Plan No.1232 made by Ajith Perera Licensed Surveyor had
Lalith Perera by a Final Decree of Partition and that Lalith Perera had thereafter gifted
the property to his daughter Ruvini. Ruvini has negotiated to sell the property to your client and has
given a copy
of the Deed of Gift and a copy of the Final Partition Plan.
(i) What further investigations on Title would you make prior to giving your opinion to your client
whether he should purchase the property? In your answer you have to discuss the importance of
these investigations.
(06 marks)
ME
(ii) What further documents are required by you from any other institution before you express your
opinion?
(03 marks)
(iii) Write short notes on 4 of such documents.
(06 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
7. Anuk de Silva, Pramuk de Silva and Dinuk de Silva are three brothers and they own equal undivided
shares of a divided portion of a land in extent of 45 perches as per a Partition Decree in the District
Court of Ratnapura in case No. 345/P. Anuk wishes to sell his entitlement of the land. Pramuk
wishes to construct a house on his share of the land having mortgaged it to a Bank. Dinuk wants to
Lease his share of land to a Company for a commercial purpose. The Bank informed Pramuk that he
should have a divided and defined block of land in order to enable them to grant him a loan.
Therefore, he informs his brothers that they should file a Partition Action for the division of the
property. Anuk has approached you for Legal advice.
Page 3 of 4
24
FJ
28.