I pauu os
7.
i)
The Registration of Documents Ordinance specifies important items that should be
embodied in the Schedule of an instrument affecting land. Specify eight (8) of them.
(01 Mark each)
ii) Draft a Schedule to a divided and defined portion of land of your choice in compliance
with the provisions in the Registration of Documents Ordinance together with the right of
way in along and over reservation for road 12 feet wide.
(05 Marks)
iii) The market value of a property situated in Rajagiriya is Rs. 3 million. Calculate the stamp
duty payable on the deed of Transfer.
(02 Marks)
(Total 15 Marks)
8.
i)
What is meant by a first class ownership and a second class ownership under the Title
Registration Act?
(03 Marks)
ii) Can a land parcel title to which has been registered under the above Act be transferred or
dealt with other than with the provisions of this Act and if so the effect of it.
(02 Marks)
iii) What is a Cadastral survey?
(02 Marks)
iv) Of what things a Notary should satisfy himself prior to the attesting of an Instrument
under this Act? You have to discuss the methods he could use.
(06 Marks)
v) Within how many days a Notary should forward instruments attested by him to Registrar of
Title for registration of such Title?
(02 Marks)
(Total 15 Marks)
9.
i)
Sunimal Peiris and his predecessors in title had been in undisturbed and uninterrupted
possession in premises bearing Assesment No. 34, Hokandara Road, Thalawathugoda
which possession is adverse and independent to that of any other for over 30 years of the
land marked Lot X depicted in Survey Plan No. 657 dated 3/4/2013 made by Saliya Silva
Licensed Surveyor in extent of 30 perches of the land called Ambagahawatta situated in
Thalawathugoda in the Palle Pattu of Salpiti Korale in the District of Colombo Western
Province. He consults you as a Notary. What type of a Deed will you draw up for better
manifestation of his title? Discuss.
(05 Marks)
ii) Draw up the necessary Deed. (attestation not required)
(10 Marks)
(Total 15 Marks)
Page 4 of 4
مل