Question 4
1. Why was the Apartment Ownership Law introduced?
(1 mark)
2. What instrument should be registered under the Apartment Ownership Law? (2 marks)
3. Which documents are required to be submitted for the registration of the Condominium
Plan?
(6 marks)
4. What is the purpose of obtaining a certificate from the General Manager of the
Condominium Management Authority?
(1 mark)
5. What is the effect of the registration of the Provisional Condominium Plan? (2 marks)
6. Will the provisions of Partition Law apply for Condominium Properties? (2 marks)
7. Write notes on the following topics:
7.1 Sinking fund
7.2 Management fund
(½ mark each)
(Total 15 marks)
Question 5
Kamal Rathnayaka is a Notary practicing in Galle. Sudath Gunawardana is a neighbour of Kamal
Ratnayake and the owner of a commercial building in Colombo. He is an illiterate individual.
Sudath wishes to lease out his commercial building for 4 years at a monthly rental of
Rs. 60,000/- and Kapila Warnakulasooriya is ready to take on lease in accordance with the said
terms.
1. Can Kamal Rathnayaka attest this Lease Agreement? Discuss.
(2 marks)
2. If your previous answer is "yes" as a Notary, what precautions should Kamal Ratnayake
take to protect the Lessee?
(2 marks)
3. What steps should a Notary follow with regard to the signatures of parties to the Lease
Agreement (execution)?
(4 marks)
4. After the execution of the Lease Agreement, the Notary Kamal Ratnayake remembered
that he could not obtain the Yearly Certificate from the Registrar of High Court for the
current year. What are the liabilities of Notary Kamal Ratnayake?
(2 marks)
5: If the parties request the Notary to insert a lower amount on the Lease Agreement in
order to save stamp duty, what are the duties and liabilities of the Notary in this
situation?
(5 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
Question 6
1. What is an "Instrument"?
2. What is a "Deed"?
3. What are the key features of a deed?
4. What are the parts of a deed?
5. State at least 6 drafting rules.
6. What is the function of an operative part in a deed?
7. Draft a covenant clause of a Deed of Transfer.
(1 mark)
(1 mark)
(1 mark)
(2 marks)
(3 marks)
(3 marks)
(4 marks)
(Total 15 marks)
Page 3 of 4
20
Scanned with
CamScanner