чим p uues
HE
②
Question No. 02
1. Ceylon Rubber Company (Private) Limited wishes to purchase a Rubber Estate situated in
Galle, Forty One Acres (A41, RO, PO) in extent. If you are retained by the company for the
said purchase, what steps should you take?
(3 marks)
2. The said Ceylon Rubber Company (Private) Limited instructs you to examine the title of a
residential premises situated next to said Rubber Estate, Forty Perches (AO, RO, P40) in
extent. What documents would you call for the examination of the title and why? (8 mark)
3. If the purchase price of the said Rubber Estate is Rs. 41,000,000/=, calculate the stamp
duty payable on the Deed of Transfer.
(3 marks)
4. Where do you pay this stamp duty and the method of payment?
(2 marks)
(Total 16 marks)
Question No. 03
1. Explain the following terms and state as to when and for what purposes they are used
and the effect of such Registration. Who can register these notices?
a) Lis Pendens
b) Priority Notice
c) Caveat
d) Seizure notice
e) Seizure priority notice.
(7 marks)
2. What are the particulars that should be mentioned in the schedule of an instrument
affecting land under the Registration of Documents Ordinance?
(4 marks)
3. What is the meaning of "Proper Folio"?
(2 mark)
4. Explain the procedure to be followed by the Registrar of Lands in terms of the Registration
of Documents Ordinance where a new division is created wholly or partly out of a division.
(3 marks)
(Total 16 marks)
Question No. 04
1. What are the rules set out in Sub Section 31(17) of the Notaries Ordinance?
(3 marks)
2. Shantha Silva is a Notary practicing in Colombo. Cyril Construction (Private) Limited agreed
to construct a business premises on a land situated in Matara belonging to Russel Perera.
The Company wants Shantha Silva to attest the Agreement. Shantha Silva knows the
directors of the said Company. However, he does not know the client Russel Perera who
wish to construct a commercial building on his land. Russel Perera wants his Notary Ruwan
Page 2 of 4
Of A 8