Salohamy v. Weerasekera - NLR - 36 of 11 [1908] LKCA 53; (1908) 11 NLR 36 (24 February 1908) Home | Databases | WorldLII | Search | Feedback Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka You are here: CommonLII >> Databases >> Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka >> 1908 >> [1908] LKCA 53 Database Search | Name Search | Recent Decisions | Noteup | LawCite | Help Salohamy v. Weerasekera - NLR - 36 of 11 [1908] LKCA 53; (1908) 11 NLR 36 (24 February 1908) 36 Present : Mr. Justice Wendt. SALOHAMY v. WEERASEKERA et al. C. R., Matara, 4,268. Mortgage debt-Seizure-Procedure-Seizure and sale of land mortgaged- Civil Procedure Code, s. 229. S was the usufructuary mortgagee of a certain property. On a writ of execution issued against him the Fiscal purported to sell and convey to the purchaser H the property itself; the mortgage debt itself was not seized in the manner required by the Code, and there was no mention of it in the Fiscal's conveyance,- Held, by WENDT J., that the right to recover the mortgage debt did not pass by the sale; and that the heirs of S were entitled to be paid the amount of the said debt in preference to the heirs of H. WENDT J. -The seizure of a mortgage debt should be effected in the manner prescribed by section 229 of the Civil Procedure Code. Bastianpillai v. Anapillai 1 followed. THIS was an interpleader action. Don Luis Abeyadeera Warna, warna, who was the owner of 13/16th shares of a land, mortgaged it by bond No. 141 dated September 8, 1849, to Salaman de Silva Abeyaratne Weerasekera. On a writ issued against the said Salaman de Silva Abeyaratne Weerasekera, in case No. 24,512 of the Village Tribunal of Wellaboda pattu, the said shares were sold on the footing that he was the owner thereof, and were purchased by Hendrick Dias Abeyaratne Weerasekera, who obtained Fiscal's transfer No. 4,013/24,512 dated August 31, 1893, and who is represented in this action by the 9th, 10th, and 11th defendants. The heirs of the said Don Luis Abeyadeera Weerawarna, by deed No. 22,672 dated July 14, 1873, sold the said property to Sellahewagey Don Dines, who sold it to the plaintiff. The plaintiff brought the amount due on the said mortgage bond No. 141 dated September 8/1849, into Court, and prayed for a decision whether the heirs (1st to 8th defendants) of the said mortgagee, or the heirs (9th to 11th defendants) of the said Fiscal's purchaser, were entitled to the money. The Commissioner (G. F. Plant, Esq.) held that the heirs of the mortgagee (1st to 8th defendants) were entitled to the money. His judgment was as follows: - " The issue in this case is one of law. The facts are admitted. Pokunebodawatte belonged to Don Luis. He mortgaged it with Salaman; in 1849 Salaman possessed. In 1893, under writ against him, the land was sold by the Fiscal. The purchasers obtained a Fiscal's conveyance and entered into possession. Meanwhile the 1 (1901) 5 N. L. R. 165. 37 heirs of Don Luis sold the property to Don Dines, who sold to plaintiff. Plaintiff now tenders into Court the amount of the mortgage debt, and prays that the mortgage be redeemed. " The question is, Are Salaman's heirs entitled to the mortgage money, or are the heirs of the purchaser at Fiscal's sale entitled? Mr.Jayatilaka appears for Salaman's heirs. Mr. Keuneman appears for the heirs of the purchaser under writ. " Mr. Keuneman argues that the Fiscal sold all Salaman's title to the land. Salaman was entitled as mortgagee, therefore the Fiscal's transfer conveyed Salaman's rights as mortgagee. " Mr. Jayatilaka urges that Salaman's rights as mortgagee could only be sold by regular procedure under section 229 of the Code; the mortgaged debt must be seized in the manner laid down in that section. That was not done. Therefore the mortgage debt did not pass at the Fiscal's sale. Mr. Jayatilaka quoted the decision reported in 2 Browne 117-124. I think that decision governs this case, and Mr. Jayatilaka's clients are bound to succeed. The land itself was seized and sold; there was no mention of the mortgage debt. In fact, at the time it was thought that the land was Salaman's absolute property, and it was not known (it had been forgotten between 1849 and 1893) that Salaman held simply as usufructuary mortgagee. " There was a previous action (C. R., 1,993)about this land. The present plaintiff's vendor sued the purchasers at the Fiscal's sale to be put in possession; he was held to have title, the purchasers at the Fiscal's sale against Salaman being held to have kept the mortgage alive. It may seem hard that the purchasers under writ should fail to prove title, it being held that they had possessed as mortgagees (see C. R., 1,993), and that now they should fail to get the mortgage debt paid to them as they had not purchased the mortgage. But I think the law is clear, and the Fiscal's sale did not convey the mortgage debt. The mortgage debt will therefore be paid to the heirs of Salaman, defendants 1st to 8th. " As to costs, defendants 9th, 10th, and 11th must pay the costs of this action." The 9th, 10th, and 11th defendants appealed. Tambayah, for the appellants. A. St. V. Jayewardene, for the 1st to 8th defendants, respondents. Cur. adv. vult. February 24, 1908. WENDT J. - This is an interpleader action, the subject of contest being the amount of a usufructuary mortgage debt admittedly due by the plaintiff, who is the present owner of the mortgaged land. The competition is between the first eight defendants, who are the legal 38 representatives of the mortgagee, and the 9th, 10th, and 11th defendants, who are the legal representatives of a person who had purchased in execution the interest of the mortgage. The sole question is, whether the execution sale entitled the purchaser to recover the debt in the same manner that the execution-debtor (the original mortgagee) might have recovered it? To answer that question we must examine the instrument by which the mortgagee's rights are said to have been transferred. It is entitled " Fiscal's conveyance to purchaser after confirmation of sale by Court," and is in the form No. 56 prescribed by section 286 of the Civil Procedure Code for sales of immovable property. It conveys " all that 13/16ths of one-fifth of Pokunewatte " within certain boundaries. That is the mortgaged land. There is no mention whatever of the mortgage. In fact the sale was carried out in the belief, and on the footing, that the execution-debtor was the owner of the land of which he had so long been in possession. The mortgage, which was dated forty-four years earlier (1849), had been forgotten. The form of seizure for a debt was not adopted, but, instead, the Fiscal followed the procedure prescribed in the case of immovable property. Under "these circumstances the learned Commissioner held that the right to recover the mortgaged debt did not pass by the sale, and I think he was right. In Alisandry Appu v. Mariahamy 1 Lawrie and Withers JJ. held that a mortgagee's interest in the mortgage came within the description in section 229 of the Code of a " debt not secured by a negotiable instrument," and that its seizure should be effected in manner laid down by that section. In Karuppen Chetty v. Silva , 2 where the sale of the lessor's interest in a lease was concerned, I followed the analogy of that case, which is binding on me. In Bastianpillai v. Anapillai ; 3 a case strictly analogous to the present, an action was brought to recover a mortgage debt by a party who had purchased the mortgagee's interest in execution, and it appeared that the Fiscal had seized and sold the mortgaged land itself. This was held fatal to plaintiff's action. That was practically a decision of three Judges, and is binding on me. I was invited by Mr. Tambayah, for the appellant, to consider the propriety of that decision, and to reserve the question for a Full Court, on the ground that the authority of Mahades Dubey v. Bhola Natt Dicket , 4 upon which Bonser C.J. founded his judgment, had been undermined, if not destroyed, by decisions in other Indian cases and of the Privy Council. I am not, however, convinced that this is so, or that the alleged present view of the Indian Courts would be applicable to our own Mortgage Law and Code of Civil Procedure. And it is not desirable that any uncertainty should exist in so frequently-recurring a point of practice. 1 (1896) 1 App. Court Reports 115 (note). 2 (1906) 1 App. Court Reports 112. 3 (1901) 5 N. L. R. 165; 2 Browne,117. 4 I. L. R. 5 All. 86. 39 It may or may not be the case that (as Mr. Jayewardene was disposed to admit) the Fiscal's sale conveyed to the purchaser the right to possess the land, so long as the debt remained unpaid, though not a right to recover the debt for himself. At any rate, the purchaser, who has had over fourteen years' possession for the Rs. 76 which he paid, does not appear to have made a bad bargain. I dismiss the appeal with costs. Appeal dismissed. CommonLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback URL: http://www.commonlii.org/lk/cases/LKCA/1908/53.html