
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 




^^y 



r 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SO 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE 



^ 



NEW LAW REPORTS 



OF CASES DECIDED BY 

^l|c 5^ujrrcmc (Court of OTcglon, 

i(ie ^u»n in 1|er ^titiK ^mtncil on ajtjreal front t({^ 
i&njrcBme <Kunrt of f ^^ Jalanti. 

WITH INDEX. 



Edited by P. rAmANATHAN, c.m.g. 

Barnater'at-Law, Inner Temple; 
Her Majesty's Solicitor-Oeneral for the Island of Ceylon. 



VOLUME I. 



COLOMBO : 

GEOROE J. A, S^EN, GOVERNMENT PRINTER. CEYLON. 

^, 1886. Digitized by GOOQie 

Summed 1929.] *^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



INDEX. 



•"I Digitized by Google 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DIGEST. 



Volume I. 

PAGJ5 

Acquittal— 

When discharge should be treated as : See Cbiminal Pbooe- 
DUBE, 16. 

Added party — 

Application to be made : See Civil Procedube, 10. 

Adding parties— 

In partition suit : See Pabtition. 

Additional Police Court— 

See Criminai* Peoceduke, 11. 

Administration— 

Of whole of common estate of two spouses on death of one : 
i See Husband and Wife. 

* Administration of jnstif e- 

4 Adnwnistraiion of justice by Magistrates — Inexpediency of a 

Superintendent of Police trying, as Police Magistrate, com- 
plaints of street nuisances and resistance to the Police. 
The Superintendent of Police for the Province of Uva had 
been appointed Additional Police Magistrate of the Police 
Court of BaduUa. There having been complaints of street 
nuisances in the town of BaduUa the Superintendent gave 
orders that all offenders should be arrested and prosecuted. 
Acting upon these orders a police officer arrested appellant 
without a warrant for conunitting a nuisance in his view ; 
and as appellant resisted the arrest, he charged him with not 
only committing a nuisance, but obstructing him in the 
execution of his duty. Appellant was brought before the 
Superintendent sitting as Additional Police Magistrate, tried 
by him, and convicted on both charges. 

Held, by Bonser, C.J., that the conviction could not stand. 
The principle applicable to a case liketliis is that theadminis 
tration of justice by Magistrates should be clear from all 
suspicion of unfairness. That justice should be believed by 
the public to be unbiassed is almost as important as that it 
should be in fact unbiassed. 

Per Lawrie, J. — An officer of the police cannot take part 
I either as judge or investigating Metgistrate in cases in which 

members of the police are personally interested, the disquali- 
fication being not that the Magistrate has a direct interest, 
but that the parties before him are those over whom he has 
control, and in the maintenance x>f whose position and 
authority he is interested. 

Lawrie, J., would however sustain the conviction for com- 
mitting nuiscmce, the Magistrate having had no interest in 
the prosecution for that offence either of a personal or 
pecuniary nature, and no bias either against or in favour 
of the accused. 

Bode v. Bawa, Police Court, Badulla, 16,009 ( . . 37a 

k lized by V| 



12(54)29 



( ii ) 

Admission— paob 

Conviction on : See Contempt of Court, 1. 
Of offence, how to be recorded: See Crtb«tnal Procedure, 11. 

" Advances " — 

Meaning of : See Coolies, &c. 

A^eement — 

To repay loans for procuring coolies : See Coolies, &c. 

Alienation — 

By wife of property of common estate: See Christian' 
Marriage . 

Alimony— 

See DivoROB. 

Alteration — 

Of record : See Contempt op Court, 1, 

Amended plaint — 

See Civil Procedure, 3. 

Answer — 

Time for filing : See Civil Procedure, 17. 

Appeal— 

See Civil Procedure, 11 and 18 ; Criminal Procedure, 2. 
After plea of guilty : See Criminal Procedxtre, 8 and 11. 
Computation of time for : See Criminal Procedure, 7. 
Delay in forwarding petition : See Civil Procedure, 21. 
From decision of Forest Settlement Officer : See Forest Ordi- 
nance, 2. 
To enhance pimishment : See Criminal Procedure, 17. 
To Privy Council : See Civil Procedure, 24. 

Appearance^ 

Li Court : See Civil Procedure, 11. 

Application — 

(Second) for writ : See Civil Procedure, 32. 

Arbitration — 

See Civil Procedure, 6. 

Arrack— 

1. Ordinance No, 10 of 1844, aa. 33 and 36— Neglect to 

grant permit for remotxd of arrack — Discretion of persons 
authorized to grant permit. 

Under sections 33 and 36 of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1844 a 
licensed retail dealer in arrack is no more bound than the 
Government Agent is to grant a. permit for the removal of 
arrack. They have a discretion to grant or withhold it 
according to circumstances. 

The punishment provided in section 36 is in respect of 
those who attempt to exercise this discretion for reward or 
gratuity. 

The Queen v. Fernando et al, Pohce Court, Nuwara 

Eliya, 8,729 . . . . 46 

2. Arrack flavoured by drugs and spices — Ordinance 

No. 10 of 1844, s. 37, and Ordinance No. 13 of 1891, s. 10— 
Removal without permit. 

The removal, without permit, of arrack which has been so 
highly impregnated or flavomred by drugs or spices that a 
distillation did not deprive the compound of their taste and 
flavour, and which was not proved as useful for medical piu*- 
poses only, ia punishable under Ordinance No. 13 of 1891, 
section 10, and Ordinance No. 10 of 1844, section 37. 

Pebris t;. LiVERA, Pohce Comlj, Colombo, 33,867 j^ed by CjSRDqIc 



( iii ) 

Arrfsl — PAGB 

Defective toarrant of arrest — Competency of a police headman as 
public servant to arrest a person charged with robbery ^ inde- 
pendently of a toarrant — Gattsing hurt to such servant — Plea 
of private defence. 

Causing hurt to a police heckdman, while in good faith and 
under colour of his office he was executing a defective warrant 
of arrest upon a person charged with robbery, is an offence 
under section 323 of the Penal Code. 

And in the absence of any act on the headman's part to 
cause reasonable apprehension of death or grievous hurt, the 
right of private defence cannot be availed of against an 
arrest mcKle by such public servcuit, who believed bond fide 
that he had the power to make the arrest. 

Queen v. Podi Baba, District Court (Criminal), Kalu- 
tara, 618 . . 23 

Assignee's report — 

See Insolvency. 

Attorney-General — 

Power of, under sections 241-243 of the Criminal Procediu^e 
Code : See Cbiminal Peoobduiib, 13. 

Bagatelle— 

See Gaming, 2. 

BUI of lading- 
Unauthorized by master of ship : See Shipping, 2. 

mrth- 

Evidence of : See Civil Procedubb, 33. 

Brothel — 

Ordinance No. 5 of 1889 — Keeping a brothel — Evidence. 

In a prosecution under Ordinance No. 6 of 1889, for keep- 
ing a brothel, it was proved that a number of women occupied 
the place alleged to be a brothel, euid that men of all sorts 
visited it both during the day cuid by night, and that spirits 
were drunk on the premises, and that there were fights 
among the people resorting thereto ; but there wa« no 
evidence of any act of indecency or fornication. 

Held, that the place was not a brothel within the meaning 
of Ordinance No. 6 of 1889. 

A brothel is a place to which persons of both sexes have 
recourse for the purpose of prostitution. 

PiEBis V. Fernando et al. , Police Court, Colombo, 38,08 1 212 

Brnte animal — 

Injury by hunting dogs — Liability of owner for damages — Direct 

and consequential damages. 

The owner of a petck of hunting dogs, which killed a calf 
while standing loose on a high road, is liable in damages to 
the owner of the calf. 

The dame^es may include not only the value of the calf, 
but also the loss of milk consequent upon the death of the 
calf. 

Folkard v. Anderson (RdmanMian's Reports^ 1862, p, 68) 
commented upon. 

Per Bonser, C.J. — ^There seems to be no justification for 
the proposition stated inFolkardv. Anderson that the amount 
of compensation should not exceed the value of the animal 
which caused the injury. 

Thwaites V, tTACKSON, CouTt of Requcsts, Nuwara f^^^^T^ 
Eliya, 882 . . . . Digitized by M^^-Pg ^^ 



( iv ) 



PAOir 



Buddhist priest— 

See GUABDIAKSHIP. 

Borden of proof— 

See PetboIiETTm ; Eyidbnoe, 3. 

f4iase of aelion — 

Splitting of : See JoDsrr Lessors. 

Caveat — 

See Civil Pboobdubb, 22. 

Certifieate— 

Of birth, what it is evidence : See CrvHi Procedure, 33. 
Of curatorship : See Civil Procedure, 1 . 
Of exemption from toll : See Toll. 

Of title— Ordinance No. 6 of 1S77, 88. 31, 32— Certificate of title 
— Effect thereof — Setting aeide euch certificate — Neceeeityfor 
entry of name of administraior instead of hie intestate — 
Ordinance No. 14 of 1891, a. 26. 

The object of a certificate of title granted under section 31 
of Ordinance No. 6 of 1877 is to make it, unless ajid until it is 
impeached by an action under section 32 thereof, conclusive 
evidence of the title of the holder of such certificate to the 
land referred to therein ; and the certificate is a bar to the 
assertion by cmy one of €uiy claim to such land, which arose 
or accrued prior to the date of the certificate, and which 
might have been registered ; and it is a bar to the claims of 
persons as well in as out of possession of the premises. 

Any one seeking to set aside such certificate need not resort 
to a separate action, but that object may be gained by mecms 
of a claim in reconvention under section 32 of the Ordinance, 
in an action already filed against him. 

Every administrator should get himself placed on the 
register kept xmder Ordinance No. 5 of 1877, as required by 
section 26 of Ordinance No. 1 4 of 1 89 1 , in place of his intestate 
and his failure to do so will, under section 31 of Ordinance 
No. 6 of 1877, operate as a b£ir to any claim by him as 
administrator. 

Caasim v. Marikar (1 S. C. B. 185) questioned. 

PiERis Appuhami v. Boteju, District Court, Colombo, 

C/2,482 .. .. 3W 

Under section 781 of the Civil Procedure Code, preliminary to 
appeal to Privy Coimcil : See Civil Procedure, 24. 

Cestui que trust — 

See Trustee. 

« Chambers »»— 

What it includes : See " Court." 

Charters-- 

Of 1801 and 1833 : See Divorce. 

Chena eultivatiou — 

Clearing land for : See Forest Ordinance, 1. 

Chief officer of ship — 

Receipt of cargo by : See Shtppino, 2. 

Christian marriage — 

Christian marriage — Non-registration — Ordinance No. 6 of 18^ 
— ^Rei viadicatio — Alienation by wife of property in com- 
munity without knowledge of husband — Estoppel — Claim by 
heir to property invalidly sold to th4rd party — Right of stu^ 
party to plead the exceptio rei venditsB ©* ^'^^M^'MwoqIp 
retentionis — Rules as to impensre utiles. '^' '^^ ^ o 



( V ) 

The 4th section of the Ordinanoe No. 6 of 1847 came into page 
operation when Her Majesty's confirmation of the Ordinance 
was notified in the OovemmerU OazeUe of 8th December, 1849. 

A marriage solemnized by a minister of the Christian 
religion under the provisions of that section does not become 
null and void for want of registration. 

A wife, who lives apart from her husband by mutual 
consent, cannot validly alienate property belonging to the 
marriage community. 

Semble, per Bonser, C. J. — ^K the husband knew of the sale 
by his wife and raised no objection to its completion, he * 

would be estopped from denying its validity. 

Per Bonser, C.J., and Withers, J. (disaentiente Browne, 
A.J.). — A claiming as heir of B a moiety of a property which 
B in her lifetime had sold and delivered, without the knowl- 
€<lge of her husband, to C for value, may be successfully 
opposed by C pleading the exceptio rei venditse et tradUse. 

Where a possessor, who has made improvements on a land 
believing it to be his own, sells it with the improvements 
thereon to another, he must be taken to have sold with the 
land the right to such improvements, and with them the right 
to defend possession of them by every available means, 
among which is the jvs retetUionis till the impensae utiles are 
refunded. 

The jits retinendi passes in the sale from one bond fide 
possessor to the other without a special cession. 

The money which a bond fide possessor pays in discharge of 
a mortgage, which encumbered the property when it came 
into his hands, is tUUis itnpenaae. 

The rules as to the extent to which the impensse utiles can 
be recovered from the owner are : — 

(1) When the outlay has exceeded the permanent 
advantage to the property, the owner is only liable to the 
extent to which the property has really been rendered more 
valuable by them. 

(2) And not even to that amount if the outlay has been 
very much greater than the owner would himself have made ; 
in which cc^e, it is left for the judge to determine on a con- 
sideration of all the circumstances and persons how much 
should be recovered. 

(3) If at the time of the suit the improved value of the pro- 
perty caused by the expenditure exceeds the amount so laid 
out, still only the sum actually expended can be recovered 
from the owner. 

(4) When a claim is made for compensation, an account 
has to be taken of the mesne profits received ; cmd only so 
much of the expenditure, whether made on the production 
of the fruits or on the property itself, as exceeds the amoiuit 
of these profits or fructus can be allowed, subject, however, 
to the preceding rules. 

(6) And in taking this account, fruits which have been 
consumed as well as those which ckre still extant must be 
set off against the clause for expenditure. The fruits of the 
expenditure itself however^ructus ex ipsa melioratiane 
percepti — are to be excluded from the accounting and not 
be set off against the clcum. 

Nicholas de Silva v, Shaik Am, District Ck)urt, 

Colombo, C/6,684 . . . . . . 228 

CWI procetfare — 

1. Civil Procedure Code, ss. 481 and 6 82 — AppoirU- 

' ment of next friend under s. 481 — Certificate of ouratorship 
under s, 682 — Necessity for inquiry as to value of minor* s 
property upon application for appointment of nextfriefMl^ , (^OOqIc 



( vi ) 

A person who has been regularly appointed as next friend faos 
tinder section 481 of the Civil Procedure Code has a right to 
sue without a certificate of curatorship under section 682. 

Per Browne, J. — A certificate of curatorship is necessary 
only for actions instituted (or defended) by a curator in his 
own name qua curator, and is not necessary for actions 
instituted (or defended) by a minor by his next friend or 
guardian ad litem. 

In regard to the proviso of section 682, when application 
is made for the appointment of next friend or guardian, it is 
not necessary to inquire into the value of the minor's pro- 
perty. Such inquiry is necessary only when it is sought to 
appoint a curator generally, or for the limited purpose con- 
templated by that section. 

Per Withers, J. — If a next friend claims charge of a minor's 
property of the value of Rs. 1,000 or over for €uiy of the 
reasons stated in section 582, he cannot institute an action 
with reference to that property, unless he first takes oiit a 
certificate of curatorship. 

D. C, K^galla, 160 (2 S. C. B. SI, 3 C. L. R. 26), 
commented upon. 

Uduma Lebbe v. Seyadu Am, District Court, Kurun^- 

gala, 867 . . 1 

I. Fiscal* 8 conveyance to purchaser in execution sale — 

Ordinance No, 4 of 1867, ss. 54, 66, and SS^And CivU 

Procedure Code, as. 283 and 286-— Confirmation by Court — 

Proper time for conveyance. 

Upon a sale in execution duly held in 1871 under Ordi- 
nance No. 4 of 1867, and no objection having been taken 
thereto within thirty days of the sale — 

Held, per Withers and Browne, J.J. (Lawrie, A.C.J., 
dissentienle), that it was competent to the Fiscal to pass con- 
veyance to the purchaser in 1893, and that such conveyance 
was valid. Such purchaser not being execution -creditor, an 
express order of court to convey is not necessary. 

Held further, per Withers, J., that it was only sales of 
property held after the Civil Procedure Code came into 
operation that required cm order of confirmation as a con- 
dition precedent to a Fiscal's conveyance. 

Gabbiel v. Peus Pebera, District Court, Negombo, 

1,356 .. ..5 

i. Civil Procedure Code, s. 247 — Plaint presented 

within time, but rejected — Irregularity of acceptitig fresh 

plaint as amended plaint, though out of time. 

No action solely cuid exclusively under section 247 of the 
Civil Procedure Code c€tn be maintained if instituted more 
than fourteen days after the date of the order upholding the 
claim to the property seized in execution. 

If a plaint is rejected, and is not put on the file of the Court, 
it cannot be scud to constitute the institution of an action. 

SiLVA V. DiNEKEHAMY, District Court, Galle, 3,285 . . 19 

. CivU Procedure Code, chapter XLVIl. — Power of 

Court to vacate an order of sequestration made on ex parte 

motion. 

A District Judge ccm, on good cause shown by the party 
aggrieved, vacate an ex parte order of sequestration which 
has been made at the instance of the plaintifi, under the 
provisions of chapter XLVH. of the Civil Procedure Code. 

MiTTiAH V. MuTTUSAMY, District Court, Chilaw, 966 . . 25 

; Prgctice Cotiduct of trial — Tender of evidence — 

Judge's refusal to admdt it — Necessity for recording refiisal 



Digitized byVjOOQlC 



( vii ) 

and reasons therefor — When siich refusal is good ground for paok 

granting a re-hearing of case, 

A party accepting a Judge's ruling or opinion as regards 
the relevancy of evidence which he proposes to offer, without 
making any effort to produce it, takes the risk upon himself 
of losing the case for want of such evidence. 

If a Court refuses to take any evidence tendered, counsel 
should not submit to such refusal, but should either call the 
witnesses, propose the questions to be put to them, and have 
the reasons for the Judge's refusal recorded, or should ask 
him to record that he would not entertain emy evidence on 
the point in question. 

MuTTUSAMY v. PoNNEN, District Court, Kandy, 8,064 31 

$. Reference to arbitration — Power of Court to extend 

time after expiry of the time originaUy fixed— -CivU Procedure 

Code, s, 683. 

Under section 683 of the Civil Procedure Code, a Coiurt 

may enlarge the time, on cause shown, when the time 

originally allowed for the making of the award has expired. 

PuNCHTBAXA V. Sttbdahamy, District Court, Kurun6- 

gala, 718/499 ..38 

7. CivU Procedure Code, chapter LIU. — Summary 

procedure on action on promissory note and claim for money 
lent — Right to summons thereon — Leave to defendant to 
appear and defend — Power of Court to call on defendant to 
give security. 

The summary procedure allowed by chapter LIII. of the 
Civil Procedure Code is applicable oiJy to actions in which 
the claim is for money due upon certain classes of documents. 

When a plaintiff has a second cause of action as for money 
lent he is not entitled to a summons in the form Ko. 19, and 
the plaint should be returned for amendment. 

If a defendant shows sufficient cause why the decree passed 
against him for default of appearance should be set aside, he 
is entitled to be allowed to enter into his defence, and he cannot 
be called upon to give security except for good reasons. 

Alluc V, MoHiDEEN, District Court, Colombo, 5,454 . . 39 

8. Civil Procedure Code, ss, 542 and 543 — Prosecution 

for not reporting death — Dtity of " next of kin " — Ordinance 
No. IS of 1867, s, 18— Absence of fraud. 

Where a deceased left property exceeding Rs. 1,000 and 
minor children, a prosecution for not reporting his death 
under section 543 of the Civil Procedure Code does not lie 
against the adult brothers of the deceased. 

It is only when some fraud has been perpetrated that the 
provisions of sections 542 ajid 643 of the Civil Procedm^ 
Code should be enforced. 

The best working provision regarding the reporting of 
deaths is to be foimd, not in section 542 of the Code, but in 
Ordinance No. 18 of 1867, section 18. 

MuDiANSE KoBALA V, Appuhamy, PoHcc Court, Kegalla, 

12,619 ..47 

9. Civil Procedure Code, s, 219 — Order of Court upon 

judgment-debtor for attendance and examination — Dis- 
obedience of order — Liability of debtor to be punished for 
contempt of Court under chapter XVII. of the Code. 
Disobedience by a judgment-debtor of an order me^e 

under section 219 of the Civil Procedure Code to attend 
Court for examination is not punishable as a contempt of 
Court under chapter XVII. of the Code. 

ANNAMAI.AY Chbtty V. GxTNEKATNE, District Court, 

Negombo,761 .. .- Digi^ed by Godf^Ic 



( viii ) 

10. GivU Procedure Code, 8, 18 — Application to be made page 

added party — Diversity of interest between plaintiff and 
applicant — Interpleader — DiUy of Colonial Courts to follow 
decisions of Court of Appeal on Imperial Statutes where such 
Statutes ofre identical with Colonial Statutes. 
Section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code corresponds with 
the language of Rule 11, Order X\T!., of the Supreme Court 
of flngland, and in the interpretation of that section effect 
must be given to the principle that, wherever e^ Court can see 
in the transactions brought before it that the rights of some 
of the parties may or will be probably affected, so that imder 
the former system of law there might have been several 
actions brought in respect of the same transaction, the Court 
shall have power to bring all the parties before it and deter- 
mine all their rights by one trial, in order that the cost of 
litigation may be diminished as much as possible. 

If the interest of the person applying to be added party is 
adverse to and independent of the plaintiff's, the defendants 
might interplead and retire, leaving the deposit to be con- 
tested between the two rival claimants, or the applicant 
should be culded a defendant, if added at all, and should put 
in a defence and counter-claim to the sum in deposit. 

When the provisions of the Colonial Statute are identical 
with those of an English Statute, the Colonial Courts should 
follow the decisions of the Court of Appeal on the Imperial 
Statute. 

Meideen v. Banda (Walatappa Chbtty, Claimemt), 

District Court, Kunm^gala, 792 . . . . 61 

11. Civil Procedure Cod-e, ss, 86 and 87 — Appeal 

against decree absolute for default — " Appearance " in Court 
— Decree mode absohUe after appearance and showing of 
insufficient cause. 

Held, per Lawrie, A.C.J. , and Withers, J. (Browne, J., 
dissentiente), that a decree nisi made absolute in the presence 
of a defendant, who appeared and attempted to show cause 
against it, is nevertheless a decree absolute for default, and 
hence not appealable. 

Held, per Lawrie, A.C.J., that the mere bodily presence of 
a defendant in Court is not *' appearance.'* It must be an 
appearance on the proper day, and if being absent on that 
day he comes into Court either personally or by Proctor on a 
later day, his non-appearance on the proper day must be 
accounted for before the late coming can be accoimted an 
" appearance " in the legal sense. 

Held, per Browne, J. (dissentiente), that the term ** appear" 
in sections 85-87 of the Civil Procedure Code means the first 
formal presentation of himself by the defendant to the Court 
in person or by proxy ; and that "decree absolute for default'* 
in section 87 means " for entire default of appearajice prior 
to entry thereof." 

D. C, Badulla, 370, Natchiappa Chetty v. MuUu Kangany 
(2 C. L. R. 110), considered and followed. 

Selva v. Grebo, District Court, Colombo, 6,601 . . 67 

12. Civil Procedure Code, s. 241 — Claim to property 

seized in execution — Life-interest of clawnant. 

Where a seizure in execution had been made of certain 
lands under a decree which declared them to be specially 
bound and executable, subject to the life-interest of one D.P. 
in them, and D. P. applied to the District Court that her 
clfium to have the seizure released and the property declared 
not liable to be seized and sold in execution be investigated t 

under section 241 of the Civil Procedure Code : Digitized by VjOOglC 



( ix ) 

Held, that it was not competent to the District Court to page 
refer the claimant to a separate action, but that her claim 
was one to be investigated and determined under sections 
241 and 242. 

Mttbuoappa Chetty t?. Samabasekaba et al, (Pavis- 

TiNAHAMi, Claimant), District Court, Negombo, 1,178 100 

13. Rei vindicatio — AUemcUive decree for delivery of 

articles or payment of tfieir value — Action of detintte — Civil 
Procedure Code, 98, 191, 320, and 321. 

Where, in an action raised for specific delivery of certain 
articles wrongfully detained, or for pa3anent of their value, 
defendant admitted possession of some of the articles and 
claimed a certain sum of money from the plaintiff on a 
separate account, and the Court decreed that defendant do 
return to the plaintiff the articles admitted by him, or pay 
plaintiff their value, and that defendant do further pay 
plaintiff Rs. 26* 60, being the difference between the value of 
certain articles claimed by plaintiff and the amount found 
to be due by plaintiff to defendant — 

Held, that such a decree was unworkable and irregular. 

Held, also, that in an action rei vindicatio for recovery of 
specific movable property, an alternative decree for payment 
of its value is bad. 

The English action of detinue is inconsistent with sections 
320 and 321 of the Civil Procedure Code, and section 191 
does not authorize the alternative form of decree entered. 

SlTHAMBAltAPPILLAI V. ViNASITAMBY, District CoUTt, 

Jaffna, 24,691 .. ..114 

14. Rei vindicatio — Form of decree — DeHnue — CivU 

Procedure Code, as. 191, 320-322. 

Though in an action of detinue decree for delivery of the 
articles claimed or payment of their value is admissible, yet 
such an alternative decree is not regulcur in an action rei 
vindicatio, the question of compensation arising only when 
it is ascertained that the property could not be restored, and 
the eonount of compensation being dependent on the conduct 
of the defendant. 

Per Bonser, C.J. — Sections 320-322 of the Civil Procedure 
Code seem to be in accordance with the Roman-Dutch Law 
and practice, and section 191 should be disregarded as being 
inconsistent with the later portions of the Code. 

SithambarappiUai v. Vinaaitamby (an^e, page 114) followed. 
Sheik Ali v. Cabimjee Jaffebjee, District Court, 

Colombo, 4,860 .. .. ..117 

16. BiU of costs — Taxation — CivU Procedure Code, s. 

214 — Claim proceedings under s. 241 — Determination of 

doss. 

The class of a claim proceeding under section 241 of the 
Civil Procedure Code is determined either by the value of the 
property claimed or the amount of the decree, whichever is 
the less, and the bill of costs of such proceeding should be 
taxed acGording to the class so determined. 

Per Browne, J. — ^A Court has power under sections 244-246 
of the Civil Procedure Code to make order as to payment of 
costs. 

Adamjee v. Cadar Lebbe, D. C. Colombo, No. 98,031 
(i C. L. R. 66), distinguished. 

CANDEPEBUMAIi V. SiNNATAI et ol. (ISMA LeBBE 

Mabikab, Claimant and Appellant), District Court, 
Batticaloa, 24,176 . . . . . . r -128 t 

Digitized by VjOO^ IC 



( X ) 

16. Civil Procedure Code, chapter XL, — Application for paob 

gttardiatiahip — Sale of minor^s property by guardian — 
Powers of guardiane. 

The Civil Procedure Code does not limit the powers con- 
ferred on guardians by the Roman-Dutch Law. 

A guardian may sell immovable property with the sanction 
of the Court. 

Such sale should be by public auction with a reserve price 
put upon the property by Court, which should also give 
directions as to the manner of sale and of the investment of 
the proceeds thereof. 

A mother, married in community and surviving her hus- 
band, has a preferential right to be appointed as a guardiem 
of her children, but some other person should be named by 
the Court to act with her, so as to safeguard the interests of 
the children. 

Mana Pebeba, Petitioner, and Pbbeba Apfuhamy, Res- 
pondent (re Abbaham and Elias de Meix, Minors), 
District Court, Kalutara, 61 . . 140 

17. Civil Procedure Cede, a. 74 — Anetffer — Time for filing. 

Section 74 of the Civil Procedure Code doe not contem- 
plate only one extension of time for filing answer, the words 
" at any subsequent time " of that section being intended to 
meet a ccise of more than one extension. 

SiLVA v. Babahamy, District Court, Galle, 2,980 . • 145 

18. Practice — Appeal — Insolvency proceedings — Security 

for appeal coats — Ordinance No. 7 of 1863, s. 6 — Bules 
and Orders of 1833 — Civil Procedure Code, s. 756, 
The provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, 1889, relative 
to the giving of security for the respondent's costs of appeal 
do not apply to appeals from orders in insolvency cases. 

Re insolvency of Philippe {D. C, Colombo, 1,697 ), 9 S. C. C. 
120, overruled. 

Re Insolvency of Abdul Aziz, District Court, Galle, 

268 .. 19e 

19. Civil Procedure Code, s. 247 — Action by execution- 
creditor — His incompetency to prove prescription — Title of 
execution-debtor — Ordinance No, 22 of 1871, s. 3 — Meaning 
of ** possession " therein — Roman-Dutch Law as to 
prescription. 

It is not competent for an execution-creditor, who in an 
action under section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code was seek - 
ing to have it declared that certain inunovable property, 
which had been released by order of Court from seizure 
under a writ of execution of a judgment held by him, was 
available for levy aa his judgment-debtor's property, to lay a 
foundation of title in his debtor to the property sought to be 
so levied, by proving ten years' adverse and uninterrupted 
possession by his debtorof the property,immediatelyprevious 
to theseizure in execution, in accordance with the requirements 
of the Ordinance No. 22 of 1871. 

The *' possession " contemplated in section 3 of Ordinance 
No. 22 of 1871 is that of a party to a suit, or of his prede- 
cessor in title, but not that of a third party. 

The effect of the Ordinances 22 of 1871 and 8 of 1834 is to 
sweep away all the Roman-Dutch Law relating to the acqui- 
sition of immovable property by prescription, except as 
regards the property of the Crown. 

Tebunnanse v. Menike, District Court, Badulla, J746 200 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xi ) 

20. Bight of leasee to the action rei vindicatio or to a page: 

possessory (iction oo against lessor — CivU Procedure — Motion 
for summons — Motion to forward case in append. 
A noteurial lease is a, pro tanto alienation, and gives the lessee 
during his term the legal remedies of an owner and possessor. 
When a plaint is accepted by the Court, there is no neces- 
sity for a separate motion for stimmons, nor is a motion to 
forward the case in appeal necessary after the filing of the 
petition of appeal. 

GooKEWABDANA V. Rajapakse, District Court, Colombo, 

letter C .. ..217 

21. Appeal — Delay in forwarding appeal — Insolvency 

Ordinance — Civil Procedure Code, s. 438 — Description of 

irhsolvent — Debt of petitioning creditor — Motion for annul- 

ment of adjudication of insolvency — Technical ohjections. 

A District Judge has no right to delay the forwarding of a 
case in due course to the Supreme Court after the appeal has 
been perfected. 

It is sufficient if a petitioning creditor's debt is proved in 
accordance with the form in the schedule to the Insolvency 
Ordinance. 

The Civil Procedure Code does not affect proceedings imder 
the Insolvency Ordinance, axid an affidavit proving a debt in 
insolvency proceedings need not, therefore, be in accordance 
with section 438 of the Code, but may follow the form given 
in the schedule to the Ordinance. 

In a petition to have a person declared insolvent it is not 
sufficient to state his name only^ but his description and 
address should be given. 

One of several partners of a firm having petitioned to have 
a person declared insolvent on the footing of a debt due to 
the firm, it was objected that the petition was irregular, 
incunnuohas the debt was not due to the petitioner only, 
and that he should have produced the power of attorney 
authorizing him to sign for the firm : 

Held, that the objections were too technical to be given 
effect to, in the absence of some injustice suffered on the 
merits. 

One p€U*tner of a firm may sign such petition for himself 
and oa behalf of the others without a power of attorney from 
the latter. 

Hayman Thornhiix, Insolvent, District Court, 

Colombo, 1,822 . . 24$ 

22. Formal order of Court — Probate — Caveatr — Ex part« 

order — Notice of appeal — Citnl Procedure Code, ss. 536 and 

536 — Useless motions. 

An order to be treated as such must be formally drawn up 
and recorded aa required by the Civil Procedure Code. 

After an order absolute in the first instance imder section 
629 of the Civil Procedure Code granting probate of a will to 
an applic€Uit has been made, it is too late to enter a caveat 
und^ section 636. 

If the probate has been granted wrongly, it may be recalled " 
under section 636. 

Such an order upon a motion, notice whereof wa« not given 
to any person, is an ex parte order, although it was made 
after such person had appeared and opposed the motion, and 
no notice is necessary to be given to such person of an appeal 
preferred by the applicant. ^^ ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xii ) 

When an application for probate is once allowed, there is page 
no necessity for further motion that probate do issue to the 
applicant. 

Re Last Will, Ferdinandus, District Court, Colombo, 

C670 .. .. ..246 

23. Civil Procedure Cod^, 8, 642 — AppliccUion of mort- 
gagee to have deceased mortgagor's estate represented — Estate 
under Rs, 1,000 — Death of m^ortgagor before Code came into 
operation. 

Under the proviso of section 642 of the Civil Procedure 
Code, it is competent for the District Court, upon an appli- 
cation mcule in respect of a mortgage of less value than 
Rs. 1,000, to appoint a person to represent the deceased 
mortgagor's estate for the purposes of the action intended to 
be raised for the recovery of the mortgage debt. 

The proviso stands independently of the testamentary 
chapters of the Code, and applies to cases where the deceased 
had died before as well as after the Code came into operation. 

SoYSA V. Alwis, District Court, Colombo, M 6 . . 266 

24. CivU Procedure Code, s, 781 — AppliccUion for certi- 
ficate as to fulfilment of requirem&nts of s. 42 of the Courts 
Ordinance — Plaint for injunction and damages — Value of 
subject-matter in issue. 

Where, in an action raised to restrain the defendant from 
trading under a certain name and to recover Rs. 9,000 as 
damages consequent upon the use of such name, no value 
was assigned in the plaint to the use of such name, and no 
issue relating to damages was framed, nor any attempt made 
to prove damage at the trial, and the dismissal of plaintiffs' 
C€we was afHrmed by the Supreme Court — 

Held that, imder section 42 of The Courts Ordinance, the 
value of the subject-matter of the suit was to be determined 
by the statement in the plaint, whether proved or not, and 
that a party desiring to appeal to Her Majesty in Her Privy 
Council was entitled to the certificate referred to in section 
781 of the Civil Procedure Code. 

Delmege et al. v. Delmeoe, District Covirt, Colombo, 

C/4988 .. .. ..271 

26. Action by secretary of a voluntary association — Inad- 
missibility of technicalities of law in Courts of Requ>ests — 
Right of plaintiff to sue — Motion to take plaint off the file — 
Proper mode of dealing with the question of right to sue — 
Civil Procedure Code, s. 16 — Costs. 

A voluntary association cannot by agreement between its 
members give any individual the right to sue on their behalf. 
Where it is practically impossible for a body of numerous 
members to appear as plaintiffs, the Court may make an 
order under section 16 of theCivil Procedure Code, permitting 
one or more of such members to sue on behalf of the rest. 

It is not the duty of a Judge to throw technical difficulties 
in the way of administering justice. He ought to remove 
them out of the way upon proper terms as to costs and 
otherwise. 

In a Court of Requests all technicalities of law should be 
avoided. 

When a plaint, defective in some material respect, has 
been filed, it is not necessary to move that it be taken off 
the file, but it is the duty of the Court, of its own accord, or 
upon its attention being called, to reject the plcdnt or return 
it to plaintiff for amendbnent. If the plaint is good exfaeie, 
any objection thereto must be taken by the answer. ^ ^ t 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xiii ) 

Where defendant, a member of a voluntary association, page 
objected at the trial to the reception of certain rules made by 
the association, on the ground that such rules were not 
included in any list of documents filed by the plaintiff — 

HMt that defendant should be deprived of his costs in the 
Court below. 

Read v. Samsudin, Court of Requests, Colombo, 8,823 292 

26. Piinci/pal and agerU — Power of attorney to minor — 

Civil Procedure Code, a, 24, 

A minor holding a general power of attorney for his prin- 
cipal abroad is competent to act as his agent for the limited 
purposes mentioned in section 24 of the Civil Procedure Code. 
SoMAStrNBABAM V. Ibrahim Saibf, District Court, 

ChUaw, 1,173 . . 297 

27. Revisiona/ry power of Supreme Court — CivU Pro- 

cedure Code, a. 763 — Liability of execution-creditor for act 
of Fiscal — Neceaaity of aurrender before aeizure, of pro- 
perty pointed out by the judgment-debtor — Civil Procedure 
Code, a. 226. 

An order of a District Court, which is wrong ex facie, 
may be quashed by the Supreme Court in the exercise of its 
revisionary power, even though no appeal may lie against 
such order. 

An execution-creditor who did not authorize the Fiscal to 
seize under his writ certain property, which upon seizure 
was rightly claimed by a third party, cannot be condemned 
to pay the costs of the claim proceeding. 

A Fiscal is not entitled to seize property pointed out by the 
judgment-debtor untU it has been surrendered to him. 
Ranesinkb, Creditor and Appellant. 
Henby et oZ., Claimants and Respondents, District Court, 

GaUe, 2,907 (^) .. ..303 

28. Civil Procedure Code, aa, 542, 543 — WUful omiaaion 

to report death of intestate — " Duly of widow, vndower, or 

next of kin" 

In order to sustain a charge under section 643 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, it is necessary to prove that the accused are 
the lawful widow or next of kin of the deceased ; that he died 
intestate ; and that the accused wilfully omitted to report 
his death. 

Semble, per Lawrie, J. — ^The 542nd section makes the 
widow or the next of kin liable. The duty seems first to be 
laid on the widow, and if there be no widow, then on the next 
of kin. Therefore both should not be convicted unless it is 
proved that they acted in concert. 

TdrssATNT V. AiiiMAKANDir, PoUcc Courf., Batticaloa, 

10,379 .. .. ..305 

29. Procedure — Motion to take plaint off the file — Action 

raised by attorney of plaintiff — Power of attorney not duly 
stamped at tims of filing action — Defect cured on the day auch 
motion waa made — Bona fides of agent — Stamp Ordinance 
No. 3 of 1890, a, 31 — Civil Procedure Code, a. 25 — Action 
on promiaaory note — Right to demand particulara of admitted 
payments. 

Where defendant moved that plaint be taken off the file, 
as the agent who brought the action in the name of his princi- 
pal did not appear to be authorized by a properly stamped 
power of attorney, and on the day of the discussion of the 
motion the defect was cured — 

Held, that it was wrong to order the plaint to be taken ofiL ^ j 

the file and restored again to it as from the date on which thw^jOOQ IC 



( xiv ) 

defect was cured, inasmuch as the Ordinance No. 3 of 1890, paqb 
section 31, rendered such powers valid as from the date of 
its execution, and the agent seemed to act bond fide. 

In an eu^tion on a promissory note it is not usual to deliver 
particulars of payments admitted by plaintiff, where the note 
does not appear ex facie to be barred. 

Vblappa Chetty v. Meydin, District Court, Chilaw, 

1,268 .. ..333 

30. Writ of execution against property — Commitinent of 

judgment-debtor — CivU Procedure Code, as, 224, 337, 347 — 

Fatal irregularities. 

Where plcuntifE petitioned in terms of section 347 of the 
Civil Procedure Code, after several years have elapsed be- 
tween the date of the decree in his favour sand the application 
for its execution, but suppressed the facts that he had made 
previous applications for execution of the decree and levies 
had been mcule on his writ, euad, nevertheless, his application 
was allowed — 

Held that, in the absence of any evidence to satisfy the 
Court, as provided in section 337 of the Code, that in the last 
preceding application due diligence had been used to procure 
complete satisfaction of the decree, or that execution was 
stayed at the requestof the judgment-debtor,leave toexecute 
the decree should not have been granted. 

Writ against property having issued, and the Fiscal having 
made return thereto that the judgment-debtors neither com- 
plied with his requirement to pay nor pointed out property 
for seizure, plcuntiff moved for and obtained a warrant for 
the arrest of the judgment-debtor, and had him arrested and 
committed to prison. 

Held that, as the order allowing writ against property had 
inyprovide emanavit, the writ and the return thereto was 
unsound, as also the warrant of arrest and the commitment 
of the defendant to prison. 

De SUva v. Sella Umma, 2 S. G. R. 155, explained. 

Mbeba Satbo v. Samaranayaxa, District Court, Kandy, 

94,630 .. .. ..342 

31. Appeal — Costs in daim inquiry — CivU Procedure 

Code, s, 24 ! — Revision. 

When in an investigation, under section 241 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, into a claim in execution the Court awards 
costs to the successful party, the order as to costs is not em 
appealable one. 

Semble, per Curiam. — ^Where, in the case of a claim to land 
seized in execution, the execution-creditor had not pointed 
out the land for seizure, or taken any steps in the matter, 
before the seizure or after it, which might be held to be a 
ratification of the act of the Fiscal, and had taken no part 
in the proceedings at the inquiry, he ought not, if the claim is 
upheld, to be condemned in the claimant's costs. 

Ramalinoam v. Kaounatha KuBUKKAii (Sambantar, 

Claimant), District Court, Jaffna, 24,021 . . 355 

32. CivU Procedure Code, ss. 337-^49, 219, 298 — Second 

application for writ — Due dUigence, 

When a judgment-creditor issues writ against the property 
of the judgment-debtor^ and the Fiscal reports that the 
judgment-debtor is not possessed of cuiiy property, it is the 
duty of the judgment-creditor to apply under section 219 t 

of the Civil Procedure Code to have the debtor examined as OOQlC 



( XV ) 

to what property he is possessed of and what debts are due page 
to him, or to have the debtor's person arrested under section 
298 of the Code. If a judgment-creditor does not avail him- 
self of either of these provisions, he camiot be said to have 
used due diligence to secure complete satisfaction of the 
decree, as contemplated by section 337 of the Code, and is 
not entitled to make a second application for execution of 
the decree. 

PAiiAiaA3PPA Chbtty V. GoMES, District Court., Colombo, 

3,430 .. ..356 

33. Gontrad by minor — Hia liability on promissory note — 

Iniereat, how to he decreed — Civil Procedure Code^ s. 129 — 
Evidence of certificate oj birth — Ordinance No. 18 of 1867^ a. 
27. 

Under the Roman-Dutch Law the filius familias could not 
bind himself without the consent of his father, except with 
regard to certain kinds of property. If he contrewjted, his 
contracts would not bind him, although, if they were bene- 
ficial to the minor, the other party would be bound (Cens.For, 
lib, /, chapter IX., section 5). 

A contract entered into with the authority of his father 
would bind the unemancipated minor, subject, however, to 
his right in certain cases, if the contract was a deterimental 
one, to apply to the Court for the remedy of restitutio in 
integrum. 

This remedy, however, is not available in cases where a 
minor practising a trade or profession incurred liabilities 
in the course thereof. 

Semble, per Bonser, C.J. — ^Trading is not of itself sufiickait 
to emancipate a fUius familias so long as he lived under the 
father's roof. Where a minor and his father, trading together, 
had granted a joint and several note stipulating for interest 
at the rate of 16 per cent. — 

Held (1) that the plea of minority is not open to the minor, 
as the note must be presumed to have been made with the 
consent of the father ; and (2) that the proper method of 
ordering interest in the decree is that the interest should be 
ccdculated down to the date of the commencement of the 
action, eund from thence to the date of the decree at the rate 
of 16 per cent., and a decree given for the aggregate amount 
made up of the principed eund these two sums for interest, 
and from the date of the decree the interest should be given 
on the aggregate amount at the rate of 9 per cent. 

Semble, per Bonser, C.J. — A certificate of birth given 
under Ordinance No. 18 of 1867 is primd facie evidence, not 
only of the birth, but also of the date of birth. 

Letchiman CheUy v. Perera {4 8. G. G. 80) queried. 
MuTTiAH Chetty V. Db Silva et al.. District Court, 

Galle, 2,721 .. ..368 

34. GivU Procedure Code, ss. 300, 30 3^ 305^ 307 to 312— 

Release of judgment-debtor on terms — AUeration of terms of 
decree — Payment by instalments — Policy of the law as to 
incarceration of debtors. 

Under section 300 of the Civil Procedure Code, when a 
judgment-debtor is brought before the Court after being 
arrested in execution of a decree for money, the Court, in 
certain circumstances, may, upon such terms, if any, as it 
thinks fit, make an order directing his release — 

Held, that under this section the Court has no power to 



alter, to the creditor's disadvantage, the terms of the decrj^e^ ^ 



Google 



( xvi ) 

and it cannot therefore allow the debtor the privilege of pags 
paying the amount of the decree by instalments. The 
terms intended by the section must be tenns onerous to the 
debtor and not to the creditor. 

Per Lawrie, J. — The policy of the law now is to discourage 
the incarceration of honest debtors who,f rom misfortune and 
poverty, cannot pay their debts, and to confine the creditor's 
remedy of imprisoning his debtor only, or at least mainly, 
to cases where the debtor is contumacious, and will not pay 
or disclose for seizure funds over which he has control. 

SuFBBMABiAN V. Pebumal, District Court, Colombo, 

C/3,753 .. ..371 

See "Coubt"; Divobce ; Fobest Obdikakce, 2; Res 
Indicata, 

Civil Procedure C^e— 

Chapter XVII. : See Civil Pbooedube, 9. 

Chapter XL. : See Civil Pbocbdube, 16. 

Chapter XLVII. : See Civil Pbocedu^, 4. 

Chapter LIII. : See Civil Pbocbdube, 7. 

Section 16 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 26. 

Section 18 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 10. 

Section 24 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 26. 

Section 26 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 29. 

Section 34 : See Joint Lessobs. 

Section 74 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 17. 

Sections 86 and 87 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 11. 

Section 129 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 33. 

Section 191 : See Civil Pbocedubb, 13 and 14. 

Section 214 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 16. 

Section 219 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 9, 28, and 32. 

Section 224 : See Civil Pbocbdutbe, 30. 

Section 226 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 27. 

Section 241 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 16 cuid 31. 

Section 247 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 3 and 19. 

Sections 283 euid 286 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 2. 

Section 289 : See Title to Immovable Pbopebty. 

Section 298 : See " Coubt " ; Civil Pbocbdube, 32. 

Sections 300, 303, and 306 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 34. 

Sections 307 to 312 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 34. 

Section 320 : See Civil Pbocedxhie, 13 and 14. 

Section 321 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 13. 

Section 322 : See Civil Pbocedubb, 14. 

Section 337 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 30 and 32. 

Sections 338 to 346 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 32. 

Section 347 : See Civil Pbocedubb, 30 and 32. 

Sections 348 and 349 : See Civil Pbocedubb, 32. 

Section 438 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 21. 

Section 481 : ^ee Civil Poocedutbb, 1. 

Section 626 : Civil Pbocbdube, 22. 

Section 636 : See Civil Pbocedubb, 22. 

Section 642 : See Civil Pbocbdutbe, 8. 

Section 643 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 8 and 28. 

Section 682 : ^ee Civil Pbocbdube, 1. 

Section 697 : See Divobce. 

Section 642 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 23 ; Res Judicata. 

Section 763 : See Civil Pbocedubb, 27. 

Section 766 : See Fobest Obdinance, 2 ; Civil Pbocedubb, 18. 

Section 781 : See Civil Pbocbdube, 24. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xvii ) 

daim (personal) — paob 

By representative of mortgagor to property mortgaged : See 
Rbs Judicata. 

Claim in execution — 

See Civil Pbocedure, 12. 

Class of costs : See Civil Pbocbdubb, 15. 

Class of suit- 
Reduced, stamp duty for : See Stamp Ditty. 

Colonial courts — 

Duty of, to follow decisions of Courts of Appeal in England : 
See Civni Pbocedurbi, 10. 

Collision at sea — 

See Shipping, 1. 

Commitment of judgment-debtor - 

See CrvTL Proobdubb, 30. 

Compensation — 

See CBiMiNAii Pbocedttre, 15. 

Complaints to Police Magistrates- 
Exercise of wise discretion in entertaining : See Cbiminal 
Pbocedttbb, 11. 

Confession, admissibility of — 

See EvTDENCB, 3. 

Confirmation of sale— 

See Civil Pbooedube, 2. 

Consent — 

Of parties to irregular reception of evidence in criminal cases : 
See Cbiminal Pbocedube, 4. 

Coasideration— 

Illegal on promissory note : See Pbomissoby Note. 
Want of, for deed : See Fbatjdulent Deed. 

Contempt of Court— 

1 . Contempt of Court — Dieobedience oj order of Court — 

Admission made in a former proceeding — Conviction upon 
such admission — Alterations in the record. 
In order to find a person guilty of contempt for disobeying 
an order of Court, it is necessary that such order should have 
been duly drawn up by the Court. 

An accused, who had admitted the truth of the charges 
brought against him, having been once discharged on his 
undertaking to do certain things, it is not competent for a 
Magistrate, upon finding that the accused had failed to fulfil 
his undertaking, to convict him upon his previous admission. 
If a Magistrate make any alteration or addition in any 
proceeding, he should note in the margin the date of such 
alteration or addition and initial it. 

SiNNATANGAM V. SiNNEN, PoHce Court, Jaffna, 15,535. . 220 



Contempt of Court — Neglect to comply unth order 

drawn up informally and made ultra vires. 
In an action for the recovery of certain jewellery, it being 
found, after the evidence of both parties had been heard, 
that the plaintiff owed a certain sum of money to the defend-^ T 

ant, who was in possession of the jewellery, the District^^^^^^'^^ 

12(54)29 



( xviii ) 

Judge, without entering a decree in favour of either party, page 

recorded his opinion that *^ the most equitable course is to 

** order the plaintiff to bring into Court the sum of Rs. 91 

•* within fourteen days, and the defendant to bring into 

*• Court jewellery also within fourteen days, to abide the 

'* further order and decree of this Court." No formal order 

was drawn up. 

Hdd^ that this order was irregular and ultra vires, and that 
a disobedience of it by defendant did not justify his 
conviction €» for a contempt of court. 

PiERis V, Fernando, District Court, Colombo, 6,680. . 306 

3. See Civil Procedure, 9. 

4. See Jurisdiction, 1. 

Contract of service — 

See Master and Servant, 3. 

Contract on misrepresentation — 

See Principal and Agent. 

Conveyance, FlscaPs — 

See Title to Immovable Property. 

When to be executed : See Civil Procedi're, 2. 

Conveyance of land — 

Conveyance of land — Validity of it, for want of description by 

metes arid hounds — Evidence, 

A conveyance is not invalid for want of description of land 
by metes and bounds. Its identification and limits are 
provable by parol evidence. 

Babasuriya v. Charles, District Court, MAtara, 792 348 

Conviction in the alternative— 

See Criminal Procedure, 10. 

Coolies — 

Loans to kankanies for procuring : 

Ordinances No. 11 of 1866, s, 11, and No. 13 of 1869, ss. 6 and 

7 — Loans to kanJcani for procuring coolies — Agreement to 

repay such loans by wages earned — Effect of such agreement 

on the criminal liability of the kankani under the Labour 

Ordinances — Meaning of *' advances.** 

Loans made to an estate kankani for procuring coolies 

cannot be debited to him in the settlement of wages due to 

him, as such loans are not " advances " in the sense of the 

term explained in section 12 of the Ordinance No. 13 of 1889. 

Even if there was an agreement between the labourer and 

his employer that such loans should be set ofE against wages 

due, it cannot have the effect of making him criminally liable 

under the Ordinance if, at the time of quitting service, the 

monthly wages earned by him shall not have been paid in 

full within sixty days from the expiration of the month 

during which such wages have been earned. 

Sinclair v. Ramasami Kankani, Police Court, Hatton, 

16,987 ..43 

Cooly— 

See Master and Servant, I 

Costs — 

Of claim inquiry, when not payable by execution -ci-editor : See 

Civil Procedure, 27 and 31. 
Security for, in appeal in insolvency proceedings : See Civil 

Procedure, 18. C ^ r\n\r%]c> 

Taxation of : See Civil Procedure, 15. digitized by >^UU^IC 



( xix ) 

^ Court ''— PAGE 

Warrant of arrest — " Court, ^^ meaning of, as used in s. 298, Civil 
Procedure Code — Committal and discharge of judgment- 
debtor — Order made in his absence, and not in Court — 
" Chambers,^* what it includes — Power of District Judge to 
re-issue warrarU of arrest or issue fresh warrant. 
Under section 298 of the Civil Procedure Code a judgment- 
debtor when arrested on a warrant of arrest should be brought 
before the Court — 

Held, by Bonser, C.J., and Withers, J., that the word 
** court " there meant the place where the Judge was 
empowered to act judicially, and was in fact so acting. 

Held further, that a District Judge h€ul no power to order 
the committal or release of a judgment-debtor arrested on a 
warrant when he had not the debtor before him. 

Per Bonser, C.J. — A District Judge cannot ordinarily 
exercise his judicial functions elsewhere than in open court. 
Per Lawrie, J. — ( 1 ) An order of commitment or release of a 
civU prisoner is a judicial act which can competently be done 
in ** chambers," and '* chambers " includes the Judge's own 
house, if it is situated in the town where his Court is. 

(2) Where a Judge finds that he was in error in discharging 

rt judgment-debtor arrested on a warrant of arrest, and that 

the creditor had used due diligence in the conduct of the 

warrant, he may issue a fresh warrant or re-issue the old one. 

MoHiDEEN V. Nallatamby, District Court, Kandy, 

9,256 .. .. ..377 

Credit to persons of slender means- 
Practice of allowing : See Insolvency. 

Criminal proeedure — 

1. Forest Ordinance, No, 10 of 1885, chapter IV.^ 

Prosecution under rules of 3rd February, 1887 — Proof in 
stMh cases — Validity of judgment — Criminal Procedure 
Code, s, 372, 

In a prosecution for clearing (for chena cultivation) a land 
at the disposal of the Crown without a permit, in breach of a 
rule framed under chapter IV. of the Ordinance No. 10 of 
1885, it is necessary to prove that the land is not one within a 
reserved or village forest ; that it is at the disposal of the 
Crown ; that it is a chena ; that its extent and boundaries 
are so and so ; and that the accused cleared it. 

A judgment of a criminal court should specify the offence 
with which the' accused is charged, in terms of section 372 
of the Criminal Procedure Code. 

Alawatuqoda Ratemahatmaya V, KraiWANTE, Police 

Court, Nuwara Eliya, 8,926 . . . . 73 

2. RigJit to appeal for enhancement of punishment — 

Criminal Procedure Code, s. 406 — Error of law or of fact — 

Error in point of opinion — Right of party injured or other 

private complainant to appeal in a case where the parties are 

the Croum and the accused — Application for revision of 

proceedings under s, 426 — Necessity for notice of revision. 

An appeal for enhancement of punishment is permissible 

on the ground of error of fact or of law, in c€kses where both 

imprisonment and fine have been imposed, and in the cases 

not excepted in sections 403, 404, emd 406 of the Criminal 

Procedure Code. 

Error in point of opinion on the part of a Judge as to the 
degree of injury to a compleunant, or the degree of criminality 
of an accused, or as to the nature or amount of punishment ^ ^ 

inflicted, does not amoimt to an error in law. Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( XX ) 

Insufficiency of punishment could only be an error in law faqk 
when a minimum amount of penalty had been prescribed 
but had not been imposed. 

In a criminal prosecution by the Crown, the party injured 
or other private complaincmt has not the right of ap|)eal 
provided for in section 406 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 

An application for revision under section 426 will not be 
entertained without due notice to the respondent. 

QuBEN V, Daniel, District Court, K^galla, 836 . . 87 

3. Criminal Procedtie Code, chapters XVI. and XIX, 

— Change of proceeding from inquiry into rial — Criminal 
Procedure Code, a. 226 {Ordinance No. 22 of 1890, 8. 7)— 
Right of Police Magistrate to convict upon evidence taken in a 
case which he has no power to try. 

In proceedings tckken under chapter XVI. of the Criminal 
Procedure Code a Police Magistrate has to take and record 
evidence for the prosecution with the view of ascertaining 
whether there is such a prima facie c€we mode out against the 
accused as could justify him in committing the eiccused for 
trial to a Superior Court, emd not to determine his guilt or 
innocence, which is in issue only in trials under chapter XIX. 
Where, in the course of proceedings initiated under chap- 
ter XVI., a Magistrate finds that the facts proved amount 
to an offence triable by him summarily under chapter XIX., 
the proper course is to stay proceedings on the inquiry, 
frame a fresh charge, and try the case, giving the accused 
notice that he is on his trial, and affording him sufficient time 
to prepare his defence. 

Section 226 of the Code (as amended by Ordinance No. 22 
of 1890) refers to cases where a Police Magistrate is trying a 
case over which he has jurisdiction, and not to cases where 
he is not acting as Judge, but as eui inquirer. Its import is 
that, when a Judge is trying a case and finds that the charge 
laid was not correctly framed according to the facts which 
appear in evidence before him, but that some other offence 
over which he has jurisdiction is proved, he may convict of 
that offence. 

Facts which appear in the depositions of witnesses taken, 
not for the purpose of a trial, but for the purpose of an inquiry- 
cemnot be said to be proved for the purpose of a conviction. 

Saram V, Wekba, Police Court, Colombo, 37,639 . . 95 

4. Tried of criminal case — Irregular reception of 

evidence — Consent of parties. 

In a criminal case it is irregular to import into it and con- 
sider as evidence the evidence taken ajid recorded in another 
case, though the complainants therein were the accused in 
the former case. 

Consent thereto, on the part of the parties to the coxmter- 
cases, will not avail to render irregular proceedings regular. 

Queen v, Suse Tisseba, District Court, Chilaw, 2,459 . . 108 

- Criminal Procedure Code, s, 226, s, 16 of Ordirumce 



No, 1 of 1888, and s, 352 of the Procedure Code— Irregu- 
larity of deciding case upon evidence outside it. 
The necessity for the framing of a cheurge by a Magistrate 
under section 226 of the Criminal Procedure Code does not 
exist in the case of a simple complaint, more or less in the 
words of a formal charge read and explained to an accused 
at the commencement of the trial and adopted by the Magis- 
trate as his charge. 

Failure to give cui accused an opportimity to make a state- t 
roent and to question him generally as to his defence* aid O QIC 



( xxi ) 

x^uired by section 362 of the Criminal Procedure Code and pagb 
section 16 of Ordineuace No. 1 of 1888, amounts to a fatal 
irregulckrity only if he were an ignorant and illiterate person 
and destitute of legal assistance at the trial. 

Each c€tse must be decided solely upon evidence recorded 
therein, without reference to any other c&se. 

Ti88era v. Foster {9 S. C C. 173) distinguished. 
Vbnasy V, YiELAN, Policc Court, Mallakam, 8,091 124 

-Penal Code, 8. 199 — Intentional omission to give 



information of offence — Criminal Procedure Code. s. 24-^ 

Duty of police officer — Mistake — Punishment. 

Where a headman, who had. received information that A 
had committed rape on B, omitted to inform the nearest 
Police Magistrate of the same, euad it appeared that such 
omission was due to the beUef that €m the parties were willing 
to settle the matter by marriage so as to avoid the disgrace 
of a public exposure, he was not bound to communicate the 
mformation, — 

Held, the offence of the headman was, in the circum- 
stances, committedunderamistakeastohis duty, and that his 
punishment should be therefore nominal. 

Balthazab t\ GuNAWABDANA, Police Court, Galle, 

17,318 .. .. .. 158 

7. Appeal — Computatixm of time — Criminal Procedure 

Code, 8, 406. 

In calculating a period within which an act is reqxiired to 
be done, the day from or after which such period is to be 
commenced is excluded, and the last day of such period 
included. 

WiCEBAMASOOBiYA V. Appusinho, Police Court, Bala- 

pitiya, 14,269 .. ..178 

8. Appeal where accused had pleaded guilty — Plea of 

guilty — CrimincU Procedure Code,^ ss. 220, 229, and 403 — 

Judgment — Criminal Procedure Code, s. 372. 

Where an accused appeared to summons, and the Police 

Magistrate explained to him the particulars of the offence, 

and then recorded as follows : — ** He pleads guilty. I 

" accept the admission of the accused. He is fined Rs. 5." — 

Held, that this was irregular, the proper course under 

section 220 of the Criminal Procedure Code being to record 

the admission of an accused party, as nearly as possible, in the 

words used by him. 

In the event of a conviction in the Police Court the require- 
ments of section 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code, as to 
specifying the offence of which, and the section of the law 
under which, the accused is convicted, must be conformed to. 

Dawson v. Pebeba, Additional Police Court, Colombo, 

3,866 194 

■Criminal Procedure Code, s. 207 — Misjoinder of 



accused — Unlawful gaming — Keeping a common gaming- 
house — Evidence — Ordinance No. 17 of 1889. 
It is a misjoinder to try a person charged with the offence 
of keeping a common gaming-house along with one charged 
with unlawful gaming. 

The essence of the offence of unlawful gaming under Ordi- 
nance No. 17 of 1889 is the publicity which attracts idlers 
of all sorts to various forms of public nuisance. It is there- 
fore incumbent on the prosecution, on a charge of unlawful 
gaming, to prove that the house in which the gaming was 
earned on was a common ^aming-pla>ce. r "^^^1^ 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( xxii ) 

If a man chocNse to allow the public access to his house, pagb 
with or without payment, to play with cards for money, he 
usee it as a common geuning-house. But any number of a 
man's friends or acquaintances may play in his house every 
day with cards for money without an offence being com- 
mitted against the Ordinance. 

Jayawabdana v. Don Thomas, Policy Court, Tangalla, 

9,466 ..216. 

10. - Irregularity in recording evidence — Ordinance No, 22 

of 1890, 8, 12 — Crvmindl Procedure Code, s. 472 — Conviction 
in the aUerruUive — Warrant issued in the Sinhalese language. 
Evidence recorded in a proceeding against A, which (Us- 
closed an offence on the part of B, who wcus not present, 
cannot be made use of a^gainst B on a subsequent day when 
arrested and brought up by reading over to the witnesses 
in the presence of B the evidence alreculy recorded, and 
examining them further and allowing B an opportunity to 
cross-examine the witnesses on the whole evidence. The 
proper course is to record their evidence afresh. 

Tlie Penal Code does not provide for a conviction in the 
alternative, and therefore a conviction for '* dishonestly 
receiving or retaining stolen property " is irregular. 

Per Bonser, C.J. — There is no authority in oiu* law for the 
issue of process in a foreign language. The language of the 
Ceylon Courts being the English language, serious doubts 
might curise as to the legality of an arrest upon a warrckut 
issued in such form. 

CoBNELis v. Uluwitike, Policc Court, Galle, 16,679 . . 24a 

1 1 . Criminal Procedure Code, ss, 229 and 40S — Ordi- 
nance No. 22 of 1890, repealing chapter XIX, of Criminal 
Procedure Code — Right of appeal where accused has pleaded 
guiUy — Mode of recording admission of offence by accursed — 
Criminal Procedure Codecs. 220 — '' Additional Police Court'' 
— Status and pouters of Magistrate of one Court sitting apart 
from each other — Ordinance No, 1 of 1889, ss, 55, 56, 57 — 
Exercise of wise discretion in entertaining complaints. 
Since the repeal of section 229 of the Criminal Procedure 
Code, section 403 has become inapplicable to the procedure 
provided by section 220 of the amending Ordinance No. 22 
of 1 890, eoid now there is no statutory bar to em appeal by an 
accused person who has been convicted in a Police Court 
summarily upon his own admission of guilt. 

The terms of section 220, as regards the mode of recording 
the admission of the ewscused, must be strictly complied with. 
It is not enough to record that ** he pleaded guilty to the 
charge," but the exact words used by him should be set forth. 
Ordinance No. 1 of 1889, sections 55, 56, and 57, does not 
admit of any such Court as ** the Additional Police Coiurt of 

," as if each of the several Magistrates whom the 

Governor may appoint to a Court constituted a distinct and 
independent Court. 

The proceedings before each such Magistrate should be 

intituled ** In the Police Court of (naming the 

division), holden at , before , one of the 

Magistrates of the said Court." 

There is no objection to one Magistrate of a Court enter- 
taining a complaint and issuing process to compel the 
attendance of an accused person before a Police Court, and 
the inquiry or trial being undertaken by another Magistr^texyf^^Tp 

igi ize y g 



( xxiii ) 

the same Court ; nor is it objectionable for one Magistrate to paoe 
admit to bail a person who has been dealt with by another 
Magistrate of the same Court, or to perform a purely minis- 
terial act like the commimicating to an accused the order 
of the Supreme Court in appeal, and to give eifect to such 
order. 

But where one Magistrate has commenced to hear a case, 
he must continue it to the end, unless it isAla within section 
89 of the Ordinance No. 1 of 1889. 

Observations on the exercise of wise discretion in entertain- 
ing plaints. 

Jansen v. Arnolis, Police Court, Colombo, 4,042 

(Itinerating Police Magistrate, Western Province) . . 274 

12. Crirmnal Procedure — Queatioyia and answers under 

8. 16 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1 888 — Criminal Procedure Code, 
8, 473. 

Questions put to an accused by a Police Magistrate at a 
non-summary inquiry, and answers elicited from him under 
section 16 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1888, cannot, without 
proper proof, be read in evidence at the tried. If it is sought 
to put such questions and answers in evidence, they must be 
proved by son\e person who was present at the inquiry and 
heard them. 

The irregular reception of such questions and answers in 
evidence is fatal to a conviction, it being impossible to say 
whateftect this improperly recorded evidence may have had 
on the Judge's mind. 

The object of the provision in section 16 of Ordinance No. 1 
of 1888 is to C€dl the attention of the accused to various 
points which have been proved ageinst him, so that he may 
have an opportunity of explaining them, and that they may 
not remain unexplained in consequence of ^rgetfulness on 
the pckrt of the accused, or ignorance of their beeu'ing and 
effect. 

The Queen v. Anisu Lebbb, District Court, BatticcJoa, 

(Criminal), 2,056 .. .. ..279 

3.- 'Criminal Procedure Code, sa. 17 5 , 238, and 242 — 

Pouter of Police Magistrate to try a lower offence, while a 
charge for a higher offence beyond his jurisdiction remained 
forrnaUy undisposed of — Power of " Attorney -General *' 
under ss. 241-243. 

Complaint was made against accused for intentional 
insult under section 484 of the Penal Code and criminal inti- 
midation under section 486. The Magistrate heard evidence, 
formulated charges imder both these sections, and forwarded 
proceedings to the Solicitor -General imder section 176 of the 
Criminal Procedure C<5de. On the return of the record to the 
Police Magistrate he proceeded to try the accused summarily 
for the offence under section 484 only, and convicted him of 
it. At this trial the complainant and his witnesses confined 
themselves to that part of their story which applied to this 
offence and o nutted the rest of it : 

Held, that such procediu-e was irregular. 
The intention of section 238 of the Criminal Procedure 
Code, as amended by Ordinance No. 22 of 1890, is to prevent 
the Magistrate being satisfied that the evidence disclosed an 
offence which he had no jurisdiction to try, and having 
framed a chcvrge for the graver offence was not at liberty to 
dispose of the minor offence. 

Observations of the Chief Justice on the impropriety of 
getting witnesses to say only what will square with the 
particular charge which the Court has determined to try. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xxiv ) 

Under sections 241, 242, and 243 the " Attorney -GenercJ " paqb 
may follow one of these courses : ( 1 ) If he is satisfied that 
the proceedings are in order, he may nominate the Court of 
trial. (2) If the thinks that no further proceedings should 
be taken, he may direct the discharge of the accused. (3) If 
he fincb the evidence defective, he may require the Magis- 
trate to take further evidence. 

WlKRAMASOOBIYA V. APPTJSINHO, PolicC Court, BsA&- 

pitiya, 14,269 . . . . . . 298 

14. Criminal Procedure Code, a. 18 — Sentence — Power 

of Court to give aggregate purUshment — Distinct offences. 
Under section 18 of the Criminal Procedure Code it is 
competent foy a District Court to pass sentences on an 
accused person aggregating four years. 

But such a power should not be exercised except when the 
offences of which the accused is convicted are completely 
distinct in their chsuracter. 

Queen v. Cara, District Court, Kalutara (Criminal), 

660 .. .. ..320 

15. Criminal Procedure Code, s. 236 — False and vexatious 

case — Case " instituted on complaint '* — Case instituted on 
formal police report — Duty of police officers as to complaints 
made to them— Compensation — Croum costs. 
Where a Police Magistrate takes proceedings on a formal 
written report made to him by a jwlice officer under sub- 
section 2 of section 152 of the Criminal Procedure Code, and 
finds the complaint frivolous or vexatious, it is not open to 
him to condemn the party on whose information such written 
report was made either in compensation to the accused or in 
Crown costs. 

A case ** instituted on complaint " (referred to in section 
236 of the Criminal Procedure Code) is a case instituted on a 
complaint made by a person to a Police Magistrate in terras 
of section 152 (1) of that Code, and does not mean a case 
instituted on a " formal written report '* made by a police 
officer to the Magistrate in terms of section 162 (2). 

The reason why the order to pay compensation to the 
accused is restricted to cases " instituted on complaint " is 
because the Legislature thought that the police would not 
institute cases without having previously made due inquiry 
and satisfied themselves _that there was a real, substantial 
case which ought to be deedt with by a Police Court. If the 
result of the inquiry made by the jwlice is to leave room for 
doubt whether the case is not a frivolous one, they should 
refer the informant to the Police Court, and not take upon 
themselves the responsibility of instituting a c€bse of the bona 
fides and merits of which they cure not satisfied. 

KuTTALAM Chetty V. Ina Muttu, Policc Court, 

Colombo, 41,036 .. .. ..326 

16. Ordinance No. 22 of 1890, s. 228— Discharge of 

accused upon absence of complainant — Illegality of subse- 
quent tried and conviction. 

In a case triable summarily, e^ter once discharging the 
accused owing to the absence of the complainant, it is not 
competent for the Police Magistrate, imder section 228 of 
Ordinance No. 22 of 1890, to re-summon him, and after 
evidence heard to convict him. 

The original discharge should be treated as cui acquitted, 
and once acquitted he could not be tried again. 

Ukkurala v. David Sinho, Police Coiu-t, Chilaw, 8,973 33C 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( XXV ) 

17. - ■ ■ ■ AppealabU order — Crinwnal Procedure Code, as, 414, page 
426 — (Met made by Police Court under Ordinance No, 6 
of 1 891 — Appeal to enhance punishment — Power of Supreme 
Court to enhance in appeal sentence passed. 
Per Withers, J. — ^No appeal lies from an order of the Police 
Court to have a greater punishment inflicted than the Magis- 
trate has passed. And the Supreme Court has no power in 
appeal to enhance such piinishment. 

Saxton v. Andi, Police Court, Mdtal6, 9,860 341 

Crinifnal Proeednre Code- 
Chapter XVT. : See CBiMiNAii Procedure, 3. 
Chapter XIX. : See Criminal Procedure, 3 and 11. 
Section 18 : See Criminal Procedure, 14. 
Section 24 : See Criional Procedure, 6. 
Section 175 : See Cribcinal Procedure, 13. 
Section 207 : See CribonaIi Procedure, 9. 
Section 220 : See Criminal Procedure, 8 and 11. 
Section 226 : See Criminal Procedure, 3 and 5. 
Section 228 : See Criminal Procedure, 16. 
Section 229 : See Criminal Procedure, 8 and 11. 
Section 236 : See Criminal Procedure, 16. 
Section 238 : See Criminal Procedure, 13. 
Section 241 : See Criminal Procedure, 13. 
Section 242 : See Criminal Procedure, 13. 
Section 243 : See Criminal Procedure, 13. 
Section 352 : See Criminal Procedure, 5. 
Section 372 : See Cribunal Procedure, 1 and 8. 
Section 403 : See Criminal Procedure, 8 and 11. 
Section 406 : See Criminal Procedure, 2 and 7. 
Section 414 : See Criminal Procedure, 17. 
Section 426 : See Criminal Procedure, 2 and 17. 
Section 466 : See Evidence, 1. 
Section 472 : See Criminal Procedure, 10. 
Section 473 : See Criminal Procedure, 12. 

Criminal trespass— 

See Gabong, 1. 

Crown costs— 

See Criminal Procedure, 15. 

Crown — 

Right of, to license use of foreshore : See Foreshore. 

Curalorship — 

See Civil Procedure, 1. 
Application for : See Guardianship. 

Damage by dogs- 
Liability of owner for : See Brute Animal. 

Damages— 

See Shiffino, 1. 

Liability of agent for : See Principal and Agent. 

Special, in cases of slander : See Slander. 

Death of intestate- 
Omission to report : See Civil Procedure, 28. 

Death— 

P^secution for not reporting : See Civil Procedure, 8. 

Decree- 
Absolute for default : See Civil Procedure, 11. 
Alteration of terms of : ^ee Civil Procedure, 34. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xxvi ) 

Alternative, for goodaor their value: 5ee Civil Pbocedure, 13. pa an: 

Form of : See Civil Pbocedxtbb, 14. 

In action for specific performance : See Specific Performance. 

Defamation— 

Defamation — Words per se corUwmelioue — Presumption of evil 

intent — Rebutting evidence as to absence of animus et 

affectus injurandi. 

Defendant having presented a petition to the Secretary 
of the Municipal Council of Kandy, containing the statement 
that certain persons, '' including the plaintiff, are selling 
** opium and bhang secretly with the intention of making 
" money fraudulently against the Government '* — 

Held, that the above words were per ae contumelious, and 
their publication should be presumed to have been made 
with a contum€U$ious intent, in the absence of proof that the 
defendant wrote the words complained of sine injuriandi 
animo et affectu, 

SiLVA V, Ramek Chbtty, District Court, Kandy (Crim.), 

8,343. .. ..225 

Description by metes and bounds — 

Absence of, in conveyance of land : See Conveyance of Land. 

Detinue — 

Action for : See Civil Procedure, 13 and 14. 

Diseliarge of accused owing to absence of complainant — 

See Criminal Procedure, 16. 

Discretion of person autliorized to grant permit for removal 
of arracic — 

See Arrack. 

DisMct4!onrts— 

Power of, to gr£uit relief in cases of disputes to property 

attckched to religious office : See Jurisdiction, 2. • 

Power of, to pimish for contempt : <See Jurisdiction, 1. 

District Judge — 

Power of, to re-issue warrant of arrest or issue fresh warrant : 
See " Court.*' 

Divorce — 

Marriage between British or European spouses resident in the 
Island — Matrimonial law of Ceylon — ProcHofnation of 23rd 
September, 1799— Charters of 1891 and 1833— Scope of 
s. 597 of CivU Procedvke Ccd^^ Applicability of Roman- 
Dutch Law — Authority of Intematiorial Law in the consider- 
ation of jurisdiction of Courts — Remedies for matrimonial 
misconduct allowable by Courts of the residence of the spouses 
— Action for divorce — for judicial separation — for alimony. 
The matrimonial law of Ceylon, established by the F^rocla- 
mcition of 23rd September, 1799, was superseded, or at 
lechst modified, in so far as it related to British and European 
residents, by the enactments of the Royal Charter of 1801. 
But upon the repeal of those enactments by the Charter of 
Justice of the 18th February, 1833, the Proclamation of 
1799, was revived, and the matrimonial law applicable to 
such residents again became the Roman-Dutch I^w. 

The Roman-Dutch law does not give jurisdiction to the 
Courts of the country in which spouses domiciled elsewhere 
are for the time resident to entertain a divorce suit. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xxvii ) 

Neither does section 597 of the Civil Procedure Code, nor paok 
did previous enactments to a similar effect, empower a 
District Court to entertain any divorce suit which was not 
previously cognizable by the Courts of the Island. 

According to International law, which is authoritative in 
the absence of any municipal law to the contrary, the true 
domicile of the married pair, as distinguished from their 
so-called matrimonial domicile, affords the only test of juris- 
diction to dissolve their marriage ; and the Courts of 
England will not recognize as effectual the decree of a foreign 
court divorcing spouses who at its date had their domicile in 
England. 

But though a District Court of the Island cannot decree 
a dissolution of marriage in the case of such residents, yet 
it may, under the rules of International law, administer other 
remedies for matrimonial misconduct, such as judicial sepa- 
ration on the ground of cruelty, emd alin\ony for desertion. 

Le Mbsubieb V, Lb Mesubier et al.. District Court, 

Matara, 602 . . 160 

Drums — 

Beating of, at night without license : See Public Nuisance. 

Due diligence necessary in applications for writ — 

See Civil Procedure, 32. 

Dying declaration-- 

See Evidence, 1. 

Election of accused to be tried by District f ourt- 

See Merchandise Marks Act. 

Enhancement of pnnlstiment, appeal for— 

See Criminal !^ocedure, 17. 

Error— 

See Criminal Procedure, 2. 

Estate under Rs. 1,000— 

See Civil Procedure, 23. 

Evidence-- 

1. . Evidence — Dying declaration of person whose death 

was not the subject oj inquiry at the trial — Its admissibility 

under s. 466 of the Criminal Procedure Code and under the 

common law. * 

A statement made by a dying man before an Inquirer into 

Deaths is not receivable in evidence under section 466 of the 

Criminal Procedure Code, not having been made on oath or 

affirmation, nor taken down by a Police Magistrate. 

Per Bonser, C. J. — The declaration of a dying person whose 
death did not form the subject of inquiry at the trial is not 
admissible without proof that the decleo'ant was in actual 
danger of death and had given up cJl hope of recovery, and 
that the deaths of the declarant and the person whose death 
was being investigated were all due to one and the same 
transaction. 

Reoina v. Charles Dias, M4tara Criminal Sessions, 

No. 2 . . . . . . 75 

• Evidence — Forgery — Comparison of hajidvrriting in 



disputed document with handwriting in genuine document. 

In a case of forgery, a Judge sitting without a jury should 
not arrive at a decision on the comparison of handwritings 
without some proof that the handwriting of the disputed 
document is the handwriting of the accused. ^ - t 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xxviii ) 

Bonser, C.J. — ^I am not satisfied that it wcw intended to page 
allow a jury to find a man guilty of forgery, when no qucJified 
witness could be found willing to state his belief that the 
alleged forgery was in the handwriting of the accused. 

Withers, J. (with much hesitation). — It is permissible for a 
jury or Judge to bring in a verdict of guilty on the com- 
parison of a disputed handwriting with a well-proved hand- 
writing, unsupported by other evidence as to the disputed 
hcmdwriting. 

But a decision of Judge or jury resting solely on a com- 
parison of other them ancient documents is dangerous. 

Cave v. Kbeltszheim, Police Court, Colombo, 38,081 146 

3. Evidence — AdmisaibUity of a confession — Burden 

of proof — Inducement. 

A statement eunounting to a confession is inadmissible in 
evidence against an accused, unless it be proved affirmatively 
by the prosecution that the statement was not made under 
the influence of an improper inducement. 

The mere fact that the statement was not made in answer 
to questions does not exclude the possibility of its having 
been made as the result of a threat or an exhortation to 
confess. 

Queen v. Amabis Appu, District Court, Colombo 

(Criminal), 1,167 . . 209 

>>«€ Landlord and Tenant ; Forest Ordinance, 1 ; 
Shippino, 2. 

As to place being a brothel : See Brothel. 

Deciding case on, outside record : See Criiunal Procedure, 6. 

Irregularity in recording : See Criminal Procedure, 10. 

Irregular reception of : See Criminal Procedure, 4. 

Necessity of recordingref usal to admit : See Civil Procedure, 5. 

On charge of criminal trespass : See Gemming. 

On charge of unlawful gaming : See Criminal Procedure, 9. 

Parol, to prove metes and bounds of land conveyed : See Con- 
veyance OF Land. 

Rebutting, as to aninvus injuriandi in cases of defamation : See 
Defamation. 

Rejection of, of witness who hew remained in Coxirt : See 
Witness. 

Summary trial on, taken in non-summary inquiry : See 
Criminal Procedure, 3. 

fender of : See Civil Procedure, 6. 

Ex parte- 

Motion : See Civil Procedure, 4. 
Order : See Civil Procedure, 22. 

False evidence — 

Intentionally giving false evidence — Trial of offence by the Judge 
before whom such evidence was given — Propriety of such trial. 
Where a witness has intentionally given false evidence in a 
case before a District Judge, it is not improper on his part to 
try him for such offence upon a committal duly made. But 
it would have been more satisfactory if at such trial he had 
the assistance of assessors. 

Queen v. De Silva, District Court, Galle (Criminal), 

12,166 ..296 

False weights— 

Possession of false weights — Intention to use fraudulently — 
Testing of balance — Ceylon Penal Code, s. 269 — Ordinance 
No. 11 of 1887. 



Digitized by 



Google 



( xxix ) 

It is not an offence under section 259 of the Penal Code as pa an 
amended by Ordinance No. 11 of 1887 to possess a false 
weight unless such possession be with the intention to use it 
fraudulently. 

And the mere possession of a weight which does not 
conform to the standard, and even the use of it, is not pre- 
sumptive evidence of an intention to use it fraudidently. 

A balance used for testing a weight which is alleged to be a 
false one should itself be tested before it is applied as a test. 

OssBK V. SiADOBis, PoHcc CouTt, Hattou, 18,210 32 3 

Family arrangements with reference tofldei catnvnisHa — 

See FzDEi Comhissttm. 

Fatal irregularities— 

See Civil Pbocibdubb, 30. 

Pidei Commissutn — 

Laa iviU^ canetruction of — *' The children of the testatrix and their 

deacendanta *' — ^Fidei conmiissum — Tenancy in common — 

Ordinance No. 21 of J844, s. 20— Intention of testatrix^ 

Family arrangement. 

Per Bonser, C.J. — No special words are necessary to create 
e^fldei commiaeum, but effect is given to it if it can be coUectei I 
from any expressions in the instrument that it was the 
testator's intention to create it. 

General rules for the interpretation of wills are often unsafe 
guides. The only true criterion is the intention of the 
testator, to be gathered from the wiU and the circumstances 
of the case. 

Per Browne, A. J. — The expression ** my children and 
their descendants *' differs in nowise from " my children and 
my descendants.** 

Per Withers, J. — A direction in a last will that the children 
and their descendanteshould not sell or alienate the property 
devised is in itself a creation of a fidei commissum, and the 
children appointed heirs for the residue of the estate took 
such property subject to the fidei commieeum. 

If a thing is to be preserved intact and disintegrated for 
the benefit of coming generations, then the tenants for the 
time being, while the seal of the fidei commiesum is still upon 
that thing, with possibility of succeeding beneficiaries, must 
be considered as tenants to whom the rule of jus accrescendi 
is applicable, in order to serve the express purpose for which 
the fidei commiaeum was created, euid the operation of the 
Ordinance No. 21 of 1844, section 20, will be suspended till 
either there is no possibility of succession or till the term 
fixed for fidei com/miaaum has expired. 

Per Cmiam. — ^Whatever may have been the intention of 
the testator as to the creation of a, fidei commiaaum, where the 
will has been construed by the parties as if the testator had 
impressed e^ fidei commiaaum on the property, and such con- 
struction has formed the basis of family arrangements for a 
long period, it should not be disturbed. 

Vansanden V, Mack, District Court, Colombo, 12,976 311 

Final decree in partition suit, effect of — 
^ee Pabtition. 

Fiscai's conveyance— 

See Civil Prooedxjiie, 2 ; Registration. . 

Fishing nets- 
Dragging : ^ee Master and Servant, 2. ^^.^.^^^ ^^ GoOgk 



( XXX ) 

Footpath — PAOB 

See Right of Way. 
Foreshore — 

Right of Crotvn to license use of foreshore of the sea — Cometency 

of Mtidaliydr of District use for rent for Crown land. 

It is competent for the Crown, by its regularly appointed 

agents, to grant licenses to fishermen to spread their nets on 

the seashore or on land belonging to the Crown adjacent to 

the seashore. 

Rent for Crown land cannot be sued for in the name of the 
Mudaliyar of the District, but in that of the Queen. 

Rowel Mudaliyab v. Pieris, Court of Requests, 

Chilaw, 2,299 . . . . 81 

Forest Ordinance — 

1. Forest Ordinance, 1885 — Rtde made under chapter 

IV. — Clearing land for chena cultivation — Land at the 
disposal of the Crown — Evidence, 

On a charge laid imder rule 1 of the rules framed under 
chapter IV. of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1885, that the accused 
cleared a land at the disposal of the Crown without a permit 
from the Government Agent, it is necessary to prove that 
the land was cleared for chena cultivation, that such land 
wa^ at the disposal of the Crown, and that it was not within 
a reserved or village forest. 

Semble, per Bonser, C.J. — The only intelligible way of 
interpreting the expression '* land at the disposal of the 
Crown " in the interpretation clause is to read clauses (6), 
(c), and (d) as cutting down the generality of the definition 
given in clause (a), so that the meaning of that expression 
would appear to be all forest, waste, unoccupied, or un- 
cultivated land, which has not been expressly granted away 
by the Crown (clause 6), or in respect of which the Crown has 
not waived its right by issuing its certificate of no claim 
(clause c), or which has not been registered a temple leuid 
(clause d). 

NUGAPITIYA MtTHANDIRAM V, SUDALAYANDI, PoHce 

Court, K6galla, 13,750 . . . . 102 

2 . Forest Ordinance, 1 885 — Amending Ordinance No, 1 

of 1892, s, 9, sub-section 6 — Appeal from decision of Forest 
Settlement Officer — Procedure as to lodging appeal and time 
from supplying stamp or judgment in appecd-— Civil Proce- 
dure Code, s, 756 — Ordinance No, 3 of 1890, 

Per Bumside, C.J., and Withers, J. {dissentiente Lawrie, 
J.). — ^AU that is required of a party appellant under section 9 
of the Ordinance No. 1 of 1892 is to lodge with the forest 
officer, within three weeks of the order appealed from, a duly 
stamped petition of appeal and affidavit to enable him to 
have his appeal dealt with by the Supreme Court. 

It is not necesscury for the appellant to deliver, as provided 
in the Ordinance No. 3 of 1890, in the case of appeals from 
District Courts and Courts of Requests, a proper stamp for 
the decree or order of the Supreme Court. 

But counsel for appellant should, before argument, under- 
take to supply the proper stamps for the judgment in appeal. 
MEKmsAMi GAMARAI.A V. Thb Crown, District Court, 

Chilaw, 266 B . . . . . . 264 

See CaiMiNAii Proceduhb, 1. 

Forgery — 

See Evidence, 2. 

Formal order— 

See Civil Procedukb, 22. 



Digitized by 



Google 



( XXXJ ) 

Fraudulent deed — page 

FrattdtUerU deed — Want of considercUion — Insolvency of grantor 
— Creditors, antecedent and subsequent to date of deed — 
English Law and Roman-Dutch Law — Ordinance No. 7 of 
1863, s. 68. 

A bond given without consideration by a person in a state 
of insolvency is void, as a fraud upon all persons who were 
creditors at its date and prejudiced by it. 

A deed cannot be set aside as fraudulent by a creditor who 
becomes such after the date of the alienation, unless it be 
proved to have been made with an intention to defeat future 
creditors. 

SiLVA V. Mack, District Court, Colombo, 61,400 (Roche 

Victoria's case) . . . . 131 

Fresh plaint-- 

See Civil Pbocbdttre Code, 3. 

Naming— 

Ordinafhce No. 17 of 1889, ss. 5 and 18 — -Keeping a common 

gaming-place — Improper use of bagatelle table — Game of 

'* IQurun^gala rouge et blanc." 

The game of bagatelle sanctioned by the Ordinance No. 17 
of 1889, section 18, is not the game of *' Kurunegala rouge et 
blanc.'' 

The occupiers of a house keeping a house for the playing 
of that game for stakes, and to which the public have access, 
are liable under section 5 of that Ordinance. 

WiJERATNE V. Pebeka, Policc Court, Kurunegala, 

3,643 ..176 

Unlawful : See Criminal Pbocedukb, 9. 

Gemming— 

Gemming without license — Criminal trespass — Section 427 of the 
Penal Code — Evidence necessary to support charge ofcriminl 
trespass — Ordinances No. 5 of 1890 and No. 10 of 1894. 
Gemming without a license on the bank of a river flowing 
along the property of private owner is not punishable as 
criminal trespass imder section 427 of the Penal Code with- 
out proof that entry on such land weis mcide with intent to 
commit an o£Eence as defined in section 38 of the Code, or to 
intimidate, insult, or annoy any person in possession of such 
property. 

Unlicensed gemming on lands other than Crown property 
is punishable under Ordinance No. 5 of 1890, amended by 
Ordinance No. 10 of 1894. 

Malhami Muhandibam v. Jtjanisa, Police Court, 

Ratnapura, 10,804 . . . . 86 

Guardian- 
Powers of : See Civil Procedube, 16. 

Guardianship — 

Application for guardianship and curatorship — Buddhist priest 

and pupil in robes. 

Where a Buddhist priest applied to be appointed guardian 
of his pupil in robes and curator of his property — 

Held, that he could not be appointed as such, as he was 
not his father, or other proper person to be appointed, and as 
it did not appear that the minor was in possession of any 
property which required to be taken care of. 

Upananda Tebunnanse v. Devamitta Unnanse and 

two others. District Court, Chilaw, 16 G .^ ^ 36 . 

Application for : See Civil Procedure, 16. Digitized byVjOOQlC 



( xxxii ) 

Haudwritiiig— paob 

Comparison of : See Evidence, 2. 

HuDting dogs — 

Damages by, liability of owner : See Bbutb Animal. 

Hnrt to public .servant — 

See Abbest. 

Husband and wife— 

Husband and wife — Marriage in community — Death of husband 
— Right of widow to one-half of tlie property held in com- 
munity — Necessity of administering whole estate. 
Per Bumside, C.J. (Lawrie, J., dissenting). — ^Though by 
the Roman-Dutch Law the surviving wife acquires a right to 
one-half of the property held in community during the 
marriage, yet convenience ajid the necessity of avoiding 
multiplicity of suits demand that the whole estate of the 
deceased should, in the first instance, vest in the administra- 
trix for disposal among the persons legally entitled to specific 
shares therein. 

Dona Mabia v. Don Pauses de Silva, District Court, 

Colombo, 716 ^ . 26g 

See Thesawalamai. 

Impensce utiles — 

See Chbistian Mabbiaqb. 

Implied contract between master of ship and consignee — 

See Shtppino, 2. 

Incarceration of debtors — 

Policy of the law as to : See Civil Pbocedube, 34. 

Indian cooly — 

See Masteb and Sebvant, 1. 

Information of offence — 

Omission to give : See Cbiminal PROCEDxmE, 6. 

Insolvency — 

Insolvency — Assignee's report — Practi<^ of tradestnen allowing 

credit to persons of slender means. 

The District Court should, in all cases of insolvency, insist 
on having a report from the assignee as to the conduct euid 
dealings of the insolvent before adjudicating on his applica- 
tion for a certificate. 

Observations on the improper practice of tradesmen allow- 
ing credit to persons of slender means, and thus encouraging 
them to run up heavy bills which they have no prospect of 
paying. 

In the Matter of the Insolvent E state of John Raynob 

Macquine Pbesslie, District Court, Badulla, 86 . . 321 

See Civil Pbocedxtbe, 21. 

Insolvency proceedings — 

Security for costs in appeal in : See Civil Pbocedube, 18. 

Instalments- 
Payment of decree by : See Civil Pbgcedxtbe, 34. 

Interest — 

How to be decreed : See Civil Pbgcedxtbe, 33. n) ^ u GoOqIc 

igi ize y g 



( xxxiii ) 

Interlocutory jndgmenl in partition suit— page 

See Pabtition. 

International law- 
Authority of, in the consideration of jurisdiction of courts : See 

DiVOBOB. 

Interpleader - 

See CivHi Procbdubb, 10. 

Irregularity — 

See Civil Procedxtbb, 3. 

In recording evidence : See Chimin ai. Pbocedube, 10. 

Joint lessors— 

Joint lessors — cuAionJor refU by one lessor for his share of rent — 

Subsequent action by joint lessors — Splitting of cause of 

action — CivU Procedure Code, s, 34 — Cancellation of lease — 

rights of joint creditors, 

A and B being joint lessors, A sued the lessee for his half 
share of the rent on the lease for a certain period, making B 
a party defendant to the action, and requiring them to show 
cause, if any, why judgment for half the rent should not go 
in favour of A. A recovered judgment. Subsequently 
both A and B sued the lessee for the other half share of the 
rent for the above period, and for the whole of the rent for a 
subsequent period, and for a cancellation of the lease. 

Held, that this action was maintainable, and that it was 
not barred by section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code. 

Held further, that in the case of joint lessors each can sue 
the lessee separately for his moiety of the rent. 

Held further, that when a lease contains the stipulation 
that, in default of payment of rent by the lessee, the lessor • 
should be at liberty to sue the lessee for a cancellation of the 
lease, the lessor is under no liability to seek a cancellation at 
the default, but that he may sue for and recover the rent at 
each of several defaults and sue for a cancellation of the lease 
at any subsequent default. 

Per Withers, J. — When creditors have joined in stipulating 
for the payment of a sum of money, each is entitled to his 
quota of that sum. When several debtors join in promising 
to pay a simi of money, each is liable to pay a quota of that 
sum of money, and no more. This happens even when a 
plurality of debtors or creditors intervene by the death of a 
single creditor or debtor leaving several heirs-at-law. 

BuDDHABAKiTA Tebunnanse V. GuNASEKABA, District 

Coxirt, Colombo, letter B . . 206 

Joint promissory note — 

Joint promissory note — Right to sue the personal legal represen- 
tative of a deceased maker jointly with the surviving maker, 
A personal legal representative of a dececised maker of a 
joint promissory note cannot be sued jointly with the sur- 
viving maker. The only exception to this rule is the case of 
a partnership, where recourse may be had against the estate 
of a deceased partner. 

Vbllayappa Chbtty v. Sinnktamby et aL, District 

Court, Kurun^gala, 612/M 420 . . 360 

Judgment-debtor — 

Committal and discharge of , in " chambers " : See " Coubt." 
Order of Court on, to attend for examination: ^ee Civil 

Pboobdttbe, 9. 
Belease of, on terms : See Civil Pbocedube, 34. r^.^,,,^^^ ^^ GoOqIc 



( xxxiv ) 
Judisment— ^aok 

Necessary findings in, in prosecution for quitting service : See 

MAST13t AND SeBVANT, 3. 

Requirements of, in criminal cases : See Criminai« Pbocbdtjbe:, 
1 and 8. 

Judleial separatf on— 

See Divorce. 

Jnrlsdietion— 

1, District Courts — Power of, to punish for contempt 

ryot committed ex facie — Appearcmce of accused — Plea to 
jurisdiction after application for time to adduce evidence — 
Ordinance No, 11 of 1868, s, 78 — Power of Supreme Court 
to issue writ of prohibition — Contempts cognizable by Superior 
and Inferior Courts of Record, 

When a party appears before a District Court on a rule 
nisi issued on him to show cause why he should not be 
attached for contempt, and aaks for time to adduce evidence 
he is not precluded from subsequently pleading to the juris- 
diction of the Court. 

A writ of prohibition is a remedy ex debito justiti<B, and lies 
before or after sentence, and it is not necessary that a party 
applying for it should, as in applications for injunctions, 
show that he would be otherwise without remedy. 

If a party have two remedies given him by law the existence 
of one will not prevent his taking advantage of the other, 
particularly if the latter remedy is likely to be more prompt 
and certain than the former. And so, a writ of prohibition 
on a District Judge may issue in cases in which an appeal lies 
upon his orders. 

A District Court is a Court of Record, and has power to 
punish summarily contempts conmiitted in the face of the 
Court, such as insult to the Judge, interruption of the pro- ' 
ceedings of the Court, disobedience to its lawful orders or 
process, obstruction to its officers in the execution of its 
processes or orders, &c. 

District Courts cannot be viewed as representing in this 
Colony the Superior Courts of Law and Equity in England, 
and they have not the powers vested in these Courts as to 
summary attachment for contempts in respect of acts done 
out of Court. 

The Supreme Coiut of Ceylon has all the powers for 
punishing for contempt, wherever conunitted in this Island, 
possessed by the Superior Courts of Westminster. 

Sefnble, there is no distinct recognition in Roman-Dutch 

Law authorities of the right of a Judge to deal summarily 

with contempts not committ-ed in the faxje of the Court, nor 

committed by way of obstruction to its orders, or with 

reference to any suit or proceeding pending in the Court. 

In the Matter of the Application of JoiiN Ferguson 

for a Writ of Prohibition against the District Judge 

of Colombo . . ' . . . . 181 

2. District Court — Jurisdiction to interfere in religious 

disputes — Right of holder of religious office to relief when 
disturbed in enjoyme^it of property aUaehed to such office 

A District Court has no jurisdiction to interfere in the 
concerns of religious communities imless, in the rules which 
any religious community has made for its members in- 
relation to the religious object which it has combined to \ 
maintain, a civil element enters, which brings the matter * 
within the sphere of the civil jurisdiction of the courts, r ^ i 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( XXXV ) 

A holder of an office who has been dtdy appointed thereto page 
by the religious oommiinity to whioh he belongs will be 
sujpported in the exercise of that office, if there is attached to 
it as an incident some estate in tenure of or right to the 
possession and enjoyment of movable or immovable property. 
MOHAMMAPU Lebbb ei al. V. KosBBK 6t oZ., District 

Court, Ja£Ena» 2,384 . . 351 

Jviisdiction of Courts — 

Authority of International law : See Divobcb. 

Jorisdiettoii of DMrkt Courts— 

See CivzL FBOcnDUBB, 4. 

Jurisdiction of Magistrates of one Court— 

See Cbiminal Pbgcedttbe, 11. 

Jus Retentionis — 

See Qhbibtiak Mabbiaob. 

Land at disposal of Crown— 

See FoBBST Obdinance, 1. 

Landlord and tenant — 

Landlord and tenant — Denial of tenancy and of notice to quit — 
Evidence — Averment and proof of notice when not necessary. 
A tenant, who diselaims to hold of his landlord and puts 
him at defiance, is not entitled to have the ckction against 
him dismissed for want of a valid notice to quit. 

And in such action the plaintiff need not aver and prove 
any notice to quit. 

MuTTU Natchia et al, v, Patuma Natchia et al,. District 

Court, Kalutara, 1,032 21 

Last wIlK eonstruf tlon of — 

See FiDEi CoMMissuM. 

Lease— 

Lease — Specific performance of — Holding over. 

A lessee is not entitled, by virtue alone of the title to 
possession passed to him by the lease, to maintain an ckction 
of ejectment against a stranger to the lease in respect of 
lands, of which he, the lessee, was never put into possession 
by his lessor. 

Semble, that where a person is put into possession of land 
by the owner in pursuance of an invalid parol lease for a 
term of yeam, he cannot be ejected by that owner until his 
holding, whatever it is, has expired, or has been put an end 
to by a proper notice. 

Pbbi»a v. Rodbigo, District Court, Kandy, 76,122 . . 99 

Leave to appear and defend— 

See Civil Pbocbdubb, 7. 

Legal estate — 

See TnnJsrTO Immovable Pbopbbty. 

Legal representative— 

Of joint maker of promissory note, right to sue jointly with 
surviving maker : See Joint Pbomissoby Note. 

Lessee's right— 
To bring possessory action or action rei vindiccUio : See Civil 
Pbocedube, 20. 

Library- 
Right of Secretary to sue on behalf of : See Civil Pbooedube, ^ ^ 

2^. Digitized by LjOOg 16 



( xxxvi ) 

Maintenanee — page 

Maintenance — Ordinance No. 19 of 1 889, «. 8 — Terms of original 

order of maintenance — Sttbaequent order enlarging previous 

order. 

Under section 8 of the Ordinance No. 19 of 1889, if a Police 
Magistrate thinks that a child should be maintained until he 
or she attains the age of eighteen years, such tiime must be 
specified in the order of the Police Magistrate. 

If an order is silent as to the time, it hc^ no force after the 
subject of the order hB& attained the age of fourteen years, 
and a subsequent order extending the allowance for the 
maintenance until the child attains the age of eighteen years 
is tdtra vires. 

EsTE V. SiLVA, PoUce Court, Galle, 3,179 . . 22 

Mandumus — 

Ordinance No. 7 of 1886, s. 4 — RigJU of householder to water 
service for private use — Duty of officer in charge of Water- 
works to supply vxxter on the premises — Application for a 
mandamus. 

Under the Ordinance No. 7 of 1886 the Government is 
bound to supply drinking water within the Municipality of 
Colombo, but not on the premises of a householder for his 
domestic use. 

Where there is a public standpipe in the neighbourhood of 
a house from which its owner is able to take water for his 
domestic use, and the officer in charge of the Waterworks is 
not prepared to recommend to the Government that the 
private supply asked for be granted — 

Held, that such householder is not entitled to a rriandamus 
on the officer to compel him to provide such service. 

In re Application of Canaqabatne for a Mandamus . . 34 

Marriage in cominiiiiity — 

See Husband and Witb. 
Master and servant — 

1. Ordinance No. 11 of 1865, s. 11 —Ordinance No. IS 

of 1889, 8. 6, and Ordinance No. 7 of 1890, s. 1— Indian 
cooly — Quitting service without leave or reasonable cause — 
Moneys paid by superintendent to labourer for purposes 
other than wages due or anticipated — Arrears of wages due. 
An estate kankani employed on a monthly contract of hire 
and service, whose wages for ten consecutive months were 
admitted to be due and impaid at the time of his quitting 
service after notice of less than one month, is not guilty of an 
offence under section 11 of Ordinance No. 11 of 1866, in tlie 
absence of proof that the sums of money alleged to have been 
advanced to him by his master were on account of antici- 
pated wages. 

The value of rice and clothes supplied to a labourer in the 
course of service and for his use as a servant, and money 
advanced to him for a similar purpose by way of cmticipated 
wages, may be deducted in the computation of an account 
of what wages, if ajiy, are due and unpaid at a certain date. 
Jacob v. Vblaidbn Kankani, Police Court, Kandy, 

15,797 .. .. ..42 

2. Master and servant — Ordinance No. 11 of 1866 — 

Agreement to attend at certain places for wages for dragging 
fishing nets. 

A person who by a written contract undei'takes for wages 
to attend at certain pl€w?eH for and in the work of dragging a{g 



( xxxvii ) 

nets cast into the sea is not a servant within the meaning of page 
the Ordinance No. U of 1866. 

RoDBioo V. Mel, Police Court, Pinadur6, 12,529 91 

3. Ordinance No. 11 of 1865, a. 7 — Labourer — Contract 

of service — quiUiftg> service without leave or reasonable 

cause — Finding of Police Magistrate. 

In a prosecution under the Labour Ordinance of 1865 
against a servant for quitting service without leave or reason- 
able cause, it is necessary that the Magistrate should, in the 
event of a conviction, state in his judgment the capacity in 
which the accused was employed in the complainant's service, 
so as to show that his quitting it without leave or reasonable 
cause constituted an offence against the Labour Ordinance. 

Unless some definite term of service is expressed in a 
written contract for hire and service, it will be obnoxious to 
section 7 of Ordinance No. 1 1 of 1866, and the servant cannot 
be criminally punished under that Ordinance. 

SoYSA V. Appithabiy, Additional Police Court, Ratna- 

pura, 3,062 ..323 

Master Atlendant — 

Master Attendant and tindals of boats — Departmental inquiry — 

Ordinance No. 6 of 1865, ss. 23 and 40 — Prosecution of 

offences against Ordinance. 

A Master Attendant acting under section 23 of Ordinance 
No. 6 of 1866 can only withdraw or suspend a license, but 
he is not emjwwered by the Ordinance to take evidence on 
oath in any departmental inquiry, or to impose a fine as the 
result of such inquiry. 

All offences against the Ordinance being made cognizable 
by the Police Courts by section 40, they should be dealt with 
in a regular criminal proceeding before such courts. 

RODOEBS V. TlNDAIiS 126 

Mbister of ship — 

Liability of, for non -delivery of goods : See Shipping, 2. 

Matrimonial Law of CeyloD — 

See Divorce. 

Meretiandlse Marlis Ordinance. 

Merchandise Marks Ordinance, No. 13 of 1888 , s, 3 — Offence 
thereunder — Election by accused to be tried before the 
District Court — Information by Attorney -Qeneral— Juris- 
diction of District Court to entertain the informcUion. 
A District Comrt has jurisdiction to inquire into and 
determine into an offence punishable under the Merchandise 
Marks Ordinance, section 3, when the accused has elected, 
at the magisterial inquiry, to be tried by the District Court. 
Upon such election, it is competent to the Attorney- 
General to exhibit an information to the District Court for 
the trial of the accused. 

QuiSEK V. Vaiyapubi, District Court, Colombo, 1,044 

(Criminal) . . . . . . 92 

Minor — 

Contract by : See Civil Pbocedubb, 33. 

Liability of, on promissory note: See Civil Procedukb, 33. 

Power of attorney to : ^ee Civil Proceditre, 26. 

Minor's property, value of— 

See Civil Procedure, 1. 

Misjoinder of accused— 

See Criminal Procedure, 9. Digitized by GoOgle 



{ xxxviii ) 

Miatek^— <*AOfi: 

See Criminal Procedure. 6. 

Honey lent — 

Summary procedure in action for : See Civil Prooedttre 7. 

Moneysi paid by Snperintendeiit to labonfer-- 

See Master and Servant, 1. 

Mortgage — 

Action on, against representative of mortgagor: 'See AiB^ 
Judicata. 

Mortgage decree — 

Effect of, on representative of mortgagor : See R ss Jtn&i^AtA. 

Mortgagee — 

Application of, to have representative appointed to deceased 
mortgagor : See Civil Procedure, 23. 

Motion for snmmonsk- 

See Civil Procedure, 20. 

Motions, useless — 

See Civil Procedure, 22. 

Motion to forward case in appeal^-- 

See Civil Prooedurb, 30. 

Mudallyar of districtr— 

Right of, to sue for rent of Crown land : See Foreshore. 

*• Mutliusam "— 

See Thbsawalamai. 

Next friend— 

See Civil Procedure, 1 . 

Next of kin- 
Duty of, to report death of intestate : See Ctvuj 'PfBoemiaO&tir., 
8 and 28. 

Notice of appeal*-^ 

See Civil Procedure, 22. 

Notice of revision — 

See Criminal Procedure, 2. 

Notice to ^ait-— 

See Landlord and Tenant. 

Order- 
Disobedience of, if informal tad ttftro vinres : See ContemM O*" 
Court, 2. 

Ordinances— 

1844, No. 10, sections 33 and 36 : See Abbaok, 1. 
1844, No. 10, section 37 : See Arrack, 2. 
1844, No. 21, section 20 : See Fidei Commissuic. 
1847, No. 6 ; See Christian Marriage. 
1863, No. 7, section 6 : See Civil Procedure, 18. 
1853, No. 7, section 68 : See Fraudulent Deed. 
1863, No. 10, sections 4, 6, and 9 : See Partition. 
1866, No. 6, sections 23 and 40 : See Master Attendant. 
1866, No. 11 : See Master and Servant, 2. 
1866, No. 11, section 7 : See Master and Servant, 3. 
1866, No. 11, section 11 : See Master and Srrvai>i*p, I ; 
Coolies, &o, 

1866, No. 16, section 90 : See Public Nuisance. 

1867, No. 4, sections 64, 66, and 68 ; See Civil Procedure, 2. 
1867, No. 14, sections 7 and 16 : See Toll. 

1867, No. 18, section 18 : See Civil pROORDURfc,. ^.^ ,(^QQQ[g 



( zxxix ) 

1867, No. 18» section 27 : See Civil Pbocedttbe, 33. 2>AC»e 

1868, No. 11, section 78 : See Jurisdiction, 1. 
1871, No. 22 : See Trustee. 

1871, No. 22, section 3 : See Civil Procedure, 10 ; Possession. 
1877, No. 5, sections 31 and 32 : See Certificate or Title. 
1886, No. 10, chapter IV. : See Criminal Procedure, 1. 

1886, No. 7, section 4 : See Mandamus. 

1887, No. 6, sections 14, 20, and 37 : See Petroleum. 
188"^ No. 11 : See False Weights. 

1888, No. 1, section 16 : See Criminal Procedure, 5 and 12. 

1888, No. 13, section 3 : See Merchandise Marks Ordinance. 

1889, No. 1, sections 55, 56, and 67 : See Criminal Proce- 
dure, 11. 

1889, No. 5 : See Brothel. 

1889, No. 13, section 6 : See Master and Servant, 1. 
1889, No. 13, sections 6 and 7 : See Coolies, &c. 
1889, No. 17, sections 6 and 18 : See Gaming. 

1889, No. 19, section 8 : See Maintenance. 

1890, No. 1, section 42 : See Civil Procedure, 24. 
1890, No. 3 : ^ee Forest Ordinance, 2. 

1890, No. 3, section 31 : See Civil Procedure, 29. 

1890, No. 6 : See Gaming, 1. 

1890, No. 22 : See Criminal Procedure, 11. 

1890, No. 22, section 12 : See Civil Procedure, 10. 

1891, No. 6 : See Criminal Procedure, 17. 
1891, No. 13, section 10 : See Arrack, 2. 

1891, No. 14, section 26 : See Certificate of Title. 

1892, No. 1, section 9, sub-section 6 : Se^ Forest Ordinance, 2. 
1894, No. 10 : ^ee Gemming. 

Parent- 
Right of, to sue for slander of daughter : See Slander. 

Partition— 

Partition — Ordinance No, 10 of 1863, 89. 4, 6, 9 — Interlocutory 
judgment in action for partition — Final decree, effect of — 
Dnty of Court in partition suits — Proof of title of co- 
owners — Adding parties — Proceeding where all co-owners 
cannot he ascertained. 

The effect of section 9 of Ordinance No. 10 of 1863 is to 
give persons taking title under the decree in an action for 
partition under that Ordinance a title good against the true 
owner, but the decree referred to in that section is not the 
interlocutory decree of partition under section 4, but the final 
judgment under section 6 awarding shares in severalty, and 
entered after receipt of the return of the commission for 
partition. 

The Court should not regard a partition suit as one to be 
decided merely on issues raised by and between the parties, 
and it ought not to make a decree imless it is perfectly 
satisfied that the persons in whose favour the decree is asked 
for are entitled to the property sought to be partitioned. 

After the Court is satisfied that the plaintiff has made out 
his title to the share claimed by him, it should direct inquiries 
to be made whether all the parties intere8te(i in the land are 
parties to the action, or have been served with notice, and, 
on being satisfied on these points, order a partition or sale. 
If all the parties cannot be found, the Court may allot 
severally the shares of the persons who have proved their 
rights to them, and may sell the remainder of the land, 
retaining the balance of the purchase money, after payment 
. thereout of a proportionate share of the costs of the action,^ 
until the owners come forwanl and prove their title iJgjy^(^jOOQlC 



( xl ) 

Dictvan of Phear, C.J., in Assena Marikar v. Usubu Lebbe, page 
1 S. C, G. 19, disapproved. . 

Per Bonser, C.J. — ( 1) The District Judge should take care 
that the inquiry in a partition suit is not a perfunctory one. 
It is only after he is reasonably satisfied that all the owners 
who can be found are parties to the action, using, if necessary 
for the purpose, the power given him by section 18 of the 
Civil Procedure Code, that he should make his decree 
declaring that the parties are entitled to certain shares, and 
directing a partition or sale, as the case may be. 

(2) An interlocutory decree for partition under section 4 
of the Ordinance, unless proceended with, is useless for any 
purpose. It could not even support a plea of res judicata. 
Where such an interlocutory 'decree has been made, and not 
proceeded with, section 402 of the Civil Procediu^ Code 
should be applied by the Court, and its rolls cleared of the 
action. 

Per Withers, J. — Claimants of shares who may have had 
notice of the proceedings only when the commissioner had 
taken steps to prepare his return should be let in, and their 
claims inquired into even if it should happen that they 
purport to modify the interlocutory judgment as to the 
shares of the CK^tual parties to the record. After hearing the 
new claimants and the former parties, the Court may reform 
its interlocutory judgment. 

Peris et al. v. Pbrera et al,. District Court, Colombo, 

4,981 /C .. ..362 

Penal Cwle- 

Section 67 : See Riot. 
Section 199 : See Criminal Procedure, 6. 
Section 259 : See False Weights. 
Section 427 : See Gebiming. 

Petroleiiin — 

Petroleum Ordinance, No. 6 of 1887, ss, 14, 20, and 37 — Possess- 
ing or keeping petroleum — Proof of existence of a place 
• licensed for storage of petroleum — Burden of proof as to 
exceptions. 

A plaint alleging that the defendants possessed in their 
premises petroleum exceeding 50 gallons, contrary to section 
14 of the Ordinance No. 6 of 1887, and thus became punish- 
able under section 20, is not so bad as to make it wholly 
defective. 

** Possessing " connotes "' keeping." 

The onus being on the ctccused to justify his keeping, it is 
not necessary imder section 37 for a prosecutor to specify or 
negative in his plaint, or prove, any exception or exemption 
which does or does not accompany the description of offence. 
In view of the rule made by the (Jovemor in Council, that 
all petroleum landed in the Island should be carried at once 
to pi'emises in respect of which a license has been granted, it 
is. the duty of a person who desires to keep more than the 
permitted quantity, to provide himself with licensed premises, 
and it is not incumbent on the prosecutor to allege or prove 
the existence of a place which the Oovemment can license 
for the storage of petroleum. 

Mack v. Tambi Lebbb et al.. Police Court, Batticaloa, 

10,106 *. .. ..68 

Plaint- 
See Crv'iL Procedure, 3. _ 

Motion to take off the file : See Civil Procedure, 25 and 29.qqq|p 



( xli ) 

PeHee headman— page 

Power of, to arrest without warrant : See Arrest. 

Ponce Magistrate- 
Power of y to try lower offence, while charge for offence beyond 
his jurisdiction remains undisposed of : See CRiHiNAii 
Procedure, 3. 

Poiiee officer- 
Omission by, to give information of offence : See Criminal 
Procedure, 6. 

Possession — 

Ordinance No. 22 of 187 J, 8. 3 — " Uninterrupted and undisturbed 
possession.** 

Withers, J. — ** Possession " of a Land must be continuous, 
peaceful, and for a certain period. 

It is " interrupted *' if the continuity of possession is 
broken either by the disputant legitimately putting the 
possessor out of the land and keeping him out of it for a 
certain time, if the possessor is occupying it ; or by occupying 
it himself for a certain time and using it for his own advantage, 
if the party preventing is not in occupation. 

And possession is '' disturbed " either by an action in- 
tended to remove the p>ossessor from the land, or by acts 
which prevent the possessor from enjoying the free and full 
use of the land of which he is in the coiuse of CMsquiring the 
dominion, and which convert his continuous user into a 
disconnected and divided user. 

Lawrie, A.C.J. — If the acj^ual physical possession has 
never been interrupted, it matters not that the possessor has 
been troubled by law suits or by claims in execution or by 
violence. If he has succeeded in holding possession, such 
attempts to oust him only make it the more certain that he 
held adversely to those who disputed with him. 

SiMAif Appu v. Christian Appu, District Court, 

Colombo, 1,980 . . . . . . 288 

^Possession ''— 

Meaning of, as used in section 3 of Ordinance No. 22 of 187 1 : 
See CrvTL Procedure, 9. 

Power of attorney not dniy stamped — 

See Civil Procedure, 29. 

Power of attorney to minor— 

See Civil Procedure, 26. 

Pre^ription— 

See Trustee ; Criminal Procedure, 19. 

Incompetency of plaintiff to plead, in suit under section 247 
of the Civil Procedure Code, on behalf of his execution- 
debtor : See Civil Procedure, 19. 

Prinelpal and a$;ent — 

Contrfict — Innocent misrepresentation — Principal and agentr-^ 

Absence of authority to act for principal — Liability of agent 

for damages. 

If A is induced Ao contract with B on the footing of an 
innocent misrepresentation, he would have a restitutive 
remedy against B, restoring to him what he had actually 
lost in consequence of entering into such contract. 

If A is under a legal duty to tell the truth to B, he would 
be liable for the consequence of an innocent misrepresenta- 
tion made by him under the belief of which B a«te^rgjtjzed by CjOOqIc 



( xlii ) 

Where A, without being armed with formal autluNnty, IpaoS 
professed to act as agent of B, and bade for at a public 
auction, and agreed to buy a house a^ such agent, and B 
repudiated the sale, and C, the vendor, sued A for damages, — 

HeM, per Withers, J., and Browne, A.J. {diaaefrUiente 
Lawrie, A.C.J.), that, in the absence of fraudulent intent or 
recklessness, A was not personally liable in damages ; and 
that he had not entered into a valid contract with C, nor was 
he under a legal duty to him to state the truth. 

Abmitaoe et al, w. Brown, District Court, Colcwnbo, 

3,819 . . 257 

2. See CrviL Procbdube, 26. 

Priyate defence— 

See AsBxarr. 

Probale— 

See Civil Procedure, 22. 

Proelamattou of September t3, 1T99— 

See Divorce. 

ProUMtiou, writ of— 

See Jurisdiction, 1 . 

Promissory note— 

Promissory note — Illegal consideration — Charge of criminal mis- 
appropriation against defendafU — Promise not to press stick 
charge, part consideration for note. 

P, who had been charged before a Police Court with 
criminal misappropriation of goods entrusted to him by L, 
granted to L, during the pending of such ca.se, a promissory 
note for part of the value of such goods and paid him the 
balance in cash, obtaining at the same time an acknowledg- 
ment from L that he had received in full the amount due to 
him " from P, the defendant in P. C. case No. 3,664." 

Held that, as the debt due was not the only consideration 
for the note, but the agreement also not to prosecute any 
further the criminal charge then pending, the note was 
tainted with a bad consideration, and was void. 

Lowe v. Poloris, District Court, Chilaw, 608 . . 142 

Liability of minor on : See Civil Procedure, 33. 
Stunmary procedure in cu^tion on : See Civil Procedure, 7. 

PnMic nuisance — 

Ordinance No. 16 of 18669 s. 90- — Beaming of drums at night 
withovi a license — Public nuisance by religious body. 
A religious body is not entitled to commit a public nuisance 
by the beating of drums and tolling of bells, and no license 
under section 90 of Ordinance No. 16 of 1866 will be a pro- 
tection against proceedings under the Penal Code, though it 
may be a protection against proceedings under the OrdinGuice. 
Holland v, Kapugama Terunndnse (P. G. Mdtara^ 
No, 80,676 9 1 S. C. C. 90) and Jansz v. Endoris (P. C. OaUe, 
No. 1,682, 9 S. C. C. 204) commented upon. 

MAB6HAiiL V. GuNARATNE Unnanbe et ol.. Municipal 

Court, Colombo, 2,062 . . 179 

Public pathway— 

Sec Right of Way. 

PnbUe servant, causing hurt to- 
ffee Arrest. ^^.^.^^^ ^^ GoOgk 



( xhii ) 

See CiiiiiiirAi. Procsdusb, 6 ; Riot. 
Aggregate : See Criminai^ Pbooedubb, 14. 
Enhancement of : See Criminai. PnocKDineE, 2. 

Pupil of Biiddliist priest— 

See GUABDIANSHIP. 

Piircbaser in execution— 

See Title to Immovablk Propebty ; Registration. 

Questions and answers — 

Under section 16 of Ordinance No. 1 of 18^8 : See Criminal 
Procedure, 12. 

Quitting service — 

See Master akd Servant, 1 and 3. 

Registration— 

Priority of regietrcUion — Purchase at execution acUe followed l>y 
possession and subseqtient Fiscctl*8 conveyance and registra- 
tion — Interim private conveyance and registration, 
A mortgaged some lands to B in April, 1886, the mortgage 
bond being registered in August, 1887. B having put the 
mortgage bond in suit, obtained a mortgage decree, himself 
purcha^ the lands in February, 1890, at the execution sale, 
and entered into possession. He delayed obtaining the 
Fiscal's conveyances till 1893, and they were registered the 
same year. Meanwhile A sold the lands to C in 1892, who 
registered his deed in 1892. 

In a contest between B and C as to title to the lands — 
Held, that B's title was superior. 

Silva V. Tissera {9 S. C, C, 92) considered and followed. 
Sinniah Chetty v. Babanis Appu (Wendl, p, 213)f and 
Oovemment Agent v, Hendrickhamy (3 C L, R, 86), distin- 
guished. 

Stlva V, Silva, District Court, Negomho, 1,563 . . 28 

Rei vindicatio — 

See Civil Procedure, 13 and 14 ; Christian Marriage. 

Religious disputes- 
Power of District Courts to in(|uire into : See Jurisdiction, 2. 

Removal of arrack without permit — 

See AiEBACK, 2. 

Resistance to police — 

Inexpediency of trial by Police Superintendent acting €ts Police 
Magistrate of charges of : Se^ Administration ow Justice 
BY Police Magistrates. 

Res judicata — 

Res judicata — Action by mortgagor against representative of 

deceased mortgagee — Civil Procedure Cods, s, 642> — Effect of 

mortgage decree on such representatii^e — Personal claim of 

representative to land mortgaged by deceased. 

A mortgage decree in an action brought against the 

^ representative, appomted under section 642 of the Civil 

Procedure Code, of a deceased mortgagee, will estop such 

representative from questioning the right of the mortgagor 

to mortgage the lands decreed executable. 

If the representative, who was the widow of the mortgagor, 
was entitled to the land in her own right, she should not 
have assumed the representative character imposed ^''^jb^^OOQlp 



( xUv ) 

Per Lawrie, J. — Under a decree passed in such an action page 
no other land can be seized in execution than those named 
in the decree as executable. 

MoHAMADU Lebbe V. UiOiA Natohia, District Court, 

Kalutara, 1,134 ..346 

Revision — 

See Criminal Pbocedurb, 2 ; Civil Pbocedube, 31. 

Revlsionary power of Supreme Court — 

See Civil Fbooedxtre, 27. 

" Right and Title '•- 

See Title to Immovable Pbopbrty. 

Right off way— 

RigJU of way over a public footpath — Evidence of special injury to 
plaintiff. 

In an action raised by the plaintiffs as owners of a certain 
garden for a declaration that they are entitled to a right of 
way over a public footpath (leading from their garden to a 
• street in Kandy), which the defendant had destroyed, and 
that the defendant should be ordered to reconstruct the same 
and pay plaintiffs a certain sum of money as damages arising 
from their inability to use the same — 

Held, that such action, in the absence of an allegation that 
the defendant had a land over which the footpath went, or 
the plaintiffs h&d a right of way over a land belonging to the 
defendant, could not be looked upon as a claim for a servi- 
tude on behalf of a dominant tenement, but should be 
treated as an action brought by a member of the public for 
obstructing a public pathway, and that, in the absence of 
proof of special injury to plaintiffs, such action was not 
maintainable. 

De Silva et al, v. Webrasinohe, District Court, Kandy , 

8,482 ..308 

Rlot- 
• ■ Punishment — Riot — Voluntarily causing hurt — Ceylon Penal 

Code, 8, 67, 

When five or more people assemble with the object of 
beating a particular person, and do beat him, they €tre guilty 
both of riot and voluntarily caiising hurt; but inasmuch as the 
act of riot is made up of the offences of unlawful assembly 
and volimtarily causing hurt, which w€w the object of the 
assembly — 

Held, that their case fell under section 67 of the Ceylon 
Penal Code, and that they should be punished for the 
principal offence of riot only. 

Case of Muniwala v. Davitha, Civ, Min., 1 1th December, 
1895, disapproved. 

The Queen v. Nandua et al,. District Court, Kandy 

(Criminal), 823 . . . . . . 317 

Roman- Duteh Law — 

Applicability of, in matrimonial proceedings : See Divorce . 

Rules and orders of 183:i- 

See Civil Pbocedube, 18. 

Sale, confirmation of— 

See Civil Progedube, 2. 

Sale of minors* property by guardian — 

See Civil Procediire, 16. 

Security for ciists in appeal in insolvency proceeding — 

See Civil Procedure, 18. (^ \ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xlv ) 

9eeii]ity» power off Coart to iisk for, in summary procedure page 
acHonjEh- 

See Civil PaocEDiraE, 7. 

Seizure of property in execution — 

See Civil Procedubb, 27. 

Sentence for severai distinct ofiencc»- 

See Criminal Pboobdubb, 14. 

Sequestration^ order of— 

iS^ee Civil Phoobdukb, 4. 

SiiippiuK- 

1. Shipping — Sailing rules — CoUUion between steams 

and sailing vesed — Fault of aaiUng vessel — Damages, 
A schooner sailing in a direction of north-west by west 
sighted a white light on the port bow, which she mistook for 
the Hght of the Tuticorin lighthouse, and she made towards 
it. A few minutes afterward, noticing a red light, she 
concluded that a steamer wcus ahecul, and put up a white 
light, porting her helm at the same time, which necessarily 
brought her across tHe course of the steeuner. 

The white light exhibited in the sailing vessel was observed 
in the steamer for a second or two and disappeared. The 
steamer held her course beUeving that the sailing vessel was 
pursuing a course parallel to hers, and that she would keep 
on in that course. In a few minutes the vessels collided and 
the schooner scuik. 

Held^ that the schooner was materially in fault, and that 
if the steamer had left it to the last moment to take the 
proper measures for getting out of the way of the schooner, 
and had not acted with all the promptness which might have 
been expected under the circiunstances, she too would have 
been in fault and hable to pay one-half of the damages 
caused. 

But as the schooner did not carry the red and the green 
lights on her port and starboard sides, but held up a white 
light with as little prominence as possible, so that the steamer 
could not ascertain expeditiously what course the sailing 
vessel was taking, nor could get out of her course in due time, 
no fault covild be attributed to the steamer upon which she 
can be made answerable for even half the damages sued for. 

ASXTMUKHAM et ol. V. ThE BRITISH InBIA STBAM 

NAViOATtON Company, Re ss. Chanda 61 



Shipping — Liability oj master for non-delivery of 



goods received on hoard — Bill of lading unauthorized by 

master — Receipt of goods by chief officer as part of ship^s 

cargo — Implied contract between master and consignor — 

Action by consignee — Evidence. 

The master of a ship has the whole conduct and manage- 
ment of the ship and everything on board in his charge and 
custody. 

If he is not himself the owner of the ship, he has this 
conduct, management, and custody as agent of the owner. 

The chief mate of the ship is the meuster's hand or servant 
to receive on board for him goods into his custody, but is not 
generally authorized to bind him by special promises. 

Where, in a suit brought against the master of a ship for 
recovery of damages consequent upon non-delivery of goods 
received on board by his chi^ mate, it was proved that ^ 
G, H. a, & Co., professing to act for the master (but withoiji^^oOQlc 



( xJvi ) 

due authori4<y), acknowledged in a bill of kkling that €. A. pa<ub 
had shipped certain goods to be delivered at the port of 
Colombo unto p. A., and it appeared that the chief mate of 
the ship had received the goods in question on behalf of the 
master from a Dock Company in London without instnac- 
tions as to their destination, or to whom they were to be 
delivered in Colombo — 

Held, that the master was not liable to O. A. on the bill of 
lading, or upon the implied contract created by the cIm^ 
nvate's SKsceptance of the goods on board, in the absence of 
proof that the Dock Company had contracted on behsilf 
of O. A. 

Caylet, Q. a., v. Kerr, District Court, Colombo, l,62d IM 

Slander — 

Slander — AcHon by parent and daughter for slander of daughter — 

Right of parent to sue — Proof of speaU damage. 

A father cannot sue for damages for slander of his daughter, 
although he may have felt pained by such slander. 

To say of a Sinhalese woman of the Vellala cctste, in the 
presence and hearing of many persons assembled at a dinner 
party, that she had run away with a Wahiunpura man, is 
actionable as slander. 

Proof of special damage is not necessary in Ceylonr to 
sustain an action for nlander. 

Appuhamy et al. v. Ki&ihami ei al,. District Court, 

K^gaUa, 474 ..83 

SpediU Commissioiier^s cerUficate— 

Under Ordinance No. 6 of 1877 ; See Certificatb of Titlb. 

Specille performance — 

Action for specific performance of contracts or damages for breach 
thereof — Intention of parties — Form of decree. 
Where plaintiff prayed for specific performance of a 
contract set forth in a deed which had been assigned to him, 
or in the alternative for damages, and it appeared to be the 
intention of the parties that the defendant should be recMiy 
to hand the document of transfer to the plaintiffs assignor, 
and the plaintiffs assignor should be ready to hand over the 
price stipulated — • 

Held, that plaintiff was entitled to a decree for specific 
performance, and if it be found, for any valid rechson, 
impossible to execute the conveyance ordered, the Court 
below should decree the defendant to pay to the plaintiff the 
damages claimed. 

Holmes i;. Alia Marikar, District Court, Colombo, 

C 5,607 ..282 

See Lease. 

Stamp dnty— 

RedAlction of amount of claim — Fail of suit from a higher doss to a 
louder class of stamp duty — Bighi of party to use stamps 
appropriate to the lower class. 

Where a plaintiff, by reducing his cleum by amendment of 
plaint, reduces the class of the case, the stamp duty payable 
on proceedings after such amendment is as on an action in 
the lower class. 

Perumal v. Terunnansb, District Court, Colombo, 

6,667 ..213 

Stamptag power off attorney — 

See OaiMINAL P&OOEDtmE, 29. Digitized by GOOg IC 



( xlvii ) 

Street Bulsances— paor 

InezpecUeocy of trial by Police SuperintendeiLt acting as Bolioe 
Magistrate of complaints of: See Administraison of 
Justice by Pouce Maoistbatbs. 

Somiiiftry procedure — 

See Civil Peocedube, 7. 

Saminar^' trial— 

On evidence taken in non-summary inquiry : See Criminal 
Procedure, 3. 

Sopcrintendent of minor roads — 

/See Toll. 

TeehnicalUies in Courts of Beqaests— 

See CrvTL Procedure, 26. 

Teelinieal oi^jeetions— 

See Civil Procedure, 21. 

Tenancy in common— 

See FiDEi CoMMissuM. 

Thediathettum — 

See Thesawalamai. 

Thesawatamai — 

Th6sawalamai — Husband and tvife — Muthusam — ^Thediathet- 
tum — Land bought by husband with money inherited by 
him — Separate property of husband. 

According to the Thesawalamai of Jaftna money inherited 
by a husband and converted into lemd does not form part of 
the thediathettum. Such land should be treated as his 
separate property, if the money can be ear marked. 

JiVARATNAM V. MuRUKESU et ol. District Court, Jaffna, 

25,089 .. ..251 

Time- 
Computation of, for appeal : See Civil Procedure, 7. 
For filing answer : ^ee Civil Procedure, 17. 
Power of Court in cases of reference to arbitration to extend : 
See Civil Procedure, 6. 

Tindals of l>oats— 

See Master Attendant. 

Title to Immovable property — 

Action for declaration of title by purchaser at a sale in execution^ 
without conveyance from Fiscal — Validity of such action — 
Civil Procedure Code, s. 289— '' Right and title "— ** Legal 
estate.'' 

Where a purchaser at an execution sale came into Court 
praying for declaration of title, without having a Fiscal's 
conveyance in his favour at the time of the institution of the 
action, and undertook to procure and produce such convey- 
ance at the trial of the case — 

Held, per Lawrie, A.C.J., and Withers, J. {dissentiente 
Browne, A. J.), that the action was not maintainable. 

Withers, J. — Under the Code, the right and title of the 
judgment-debtor to immovable property sold by virtue of an 
execution writ is not divested by the sale until the confirma- 
tion of the sale by the Court and the execution by the FiscaPs 
conveyance. 

The expressions «*' right and title " and *' legal estate " 
used in section 289 are synonymous. 

Silva v. Hendriok Appu, District Court, Galle, 2,64f^e(!i by vJ®OQ16 



( xlviii ) 

ToD PAOR 

Ordinance No. 14 of 1867, 88, 7, 16 — SuperitUendent of Minor 

Roads — CertificcUe of exemption. 

Under section 7 of the Ordinance No. 14 of 1867 the 
Government Agent has no power to issue a certificate of 
exemption from toll of the carriages, carts, and horses of the 
Superintendent of the Minor Roads while used in the Public 
Service on the roads in charge of that officer. 

Daniel v. RoDRiao, Police Court, P&nadur6» 13,728 . . 383 

Trial- 
Conduct of : See Civil Pbooedurb, 6. 

For giving false evidence before Judge before whom the 
evidence impeached had been given : See False Evidence. 

Trustee — 

Trustee and cestui que trust — Prescription — Ordinance No, 22 

of 1871. 

A trustee receiving money on behalf of his ceshAt que trust 
cannot set up a plea of prescription in bar of the claim of 
such cestui que trust. 

Antho Pulle v. Christoffel Pulle, District Court, 

Colombo, 444 . . . . 120 

Voluntarily eaasing huiir— • 

See Riot. 

Voluntary assoelatton — 

Right to sue on behalf of : See Criminal Procedure, 26. 

Wages, arrears of — 

See Master and Servant, 1. 

Warrant In Sinhalese — 

See Criminal Procedure, 10. 

Warrant of arrest — 

See Arrest. 

Water service for private use — 

See Mandamus. 

WMow— 

Duty of, to report death of husband : See Criminal Pro- 
CBDURE, 28. 

Widower- 
Duty of, to report death of wife : Se^ Criminal Procedure, 28. 

Witness— 

Witness remaining v^ithin hearing of evidence given in Court — 
Right of Court to reject evidence of such witness. 
A Judge has no right to reject a witness on the ground 
that he remained in Court in contravention of an order to 
withdraw. 

Fernando v. Welenis Appu et al.j Police Court, 

Kalutara, 19,320 .. .. ..90 

Writ against property— 

See OiwL Procedure, 30. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CASES 

DECIDED BY 

THE SUPREME COURT OF CEYLON, 

THE COURT OF VICE-ADMIRALTY 
IN THE ISLAND, 

AND 

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN 
HER PRIVY COUNCIL 

OK APFEAL FROM THE 

SUPREME COURT OF THE 181 AND. 



UDUMA LEBBE ei al v. SEYADU ALI* et at, 
D. C, Kurun^gala, 857. 

CivU Procedure Code, as. 481 and 682 — Appointment of next friend under 
8, 481 — Certificate of curatorship under 8. 582 — Necesaity for 
inquiry aa to value of minor's property upon application for 
appointment of next friend. 

A person who 1ms been regularly appointed as next friend under 
section 481 of the Civil Procedure Code has a right to sue without 
a certificate of curatorship under section 582. 

Per Bbowne, J, — A certificate of curatorship is necesstu-y only 
for actions instituted (or defended) by a curator in his own nan\e 
qua curator, and is not necessary for actions instituted (or defended) 
by a minor by his next friend or guardian ad litem. 

In regard to the proviso of section 682, when application is made 
for the appointment of next friend or guardian, it is not necessai'y 
to inquire into the value of the minor's property. Such inquiry is 
necessary only when it is sought to appoint a curator generally, or 
for the limited purpose contemplated by that section. 

Vot. I. }^^^*X'^r. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 2 ) 

Per Withers, J. — If a next friend claims charge of a minor's 
property of the value of Rs. 1,000 or over for any of the reasons 
stated in section 582, he cannot institute an action with reference 
to that property, unless he first takes out a certificate of curatorship, 

D. C K6galla, 160 (2 ^. C. R. 81, 3 C. L, R, 26), commented upon. 



n^HIS was an action in ejectment brought by the plaintiffs to 
-^ recover certain lands which they averred they inherited 
from one Maimo Natchia, and from which they were ousted by 
the defendants. The fifth and sixth plaintiffs, Ossen and 
Mahommadu, being minors, the first plaintiff, their father, was, 
on his application, appointed their next friend for the purpose 
of this action. On the day of trial, the court ex mero motu called 
upon the plaintiffs' Proctor to show cause why the action should 
not bo dismissed, on the ground that the first plaintiff's appoint- 
ment as the next friend of the minors was invalid, because no 
certificate was obtained in accordance with section 582 of the 
Civil Procedure CJode, aiid no inquiry was made to ascertain the 
value of the property. 

After argument, the District Judge ordered that the case be 
taken off the trial roll to enable the first plaintiff to obtain the 
requisite authority to sue under section 582 of the Civil 
Procedure Code. 

The plaintiffs appealed. 

The case was argued before Lawbie, A.C.J., and Browne, J., 
and judgment being reserved, it was, at the request of their 
Lordships, argued again before the Full Court (consisting of 
Lawrie, A.C.J., and Withers and Browt^e, JJ.) on the 8th 
March, 1895. 

Wendty for the appellants. 

Sampayo and Blaze, for the re^spondents. 

Cur, adv. vuU. 

12th March, 1895. Browne, J.— 

In this action fifth and sixth plaintiffs are minors, and before 
the action was instituted the first plaintiff, their father, was (by 
Mr. Dunuwille, Acting District Judge) appointed their next friend 
in order to institute this action of ejectment and for damages 
against the defendants. It is to be noted, however, that the 
application was not accompanied by a copy of the plaint 
proposed to be filed, as this Court {2 C. L, R. 82 and 163y and 
1 S. C. R, 302) has directed should be always done. 

The appointment was, however, made, and has not been objected 
to on that ground. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 3 ) 

At the trial, however, the Court of its own instance (Mr. Maeon, 
District Judge, presiding) ordered the action to be taken off the 
file, on the ground that the plaintiff's appointment as next friend 
was invalid, because (1) no certificate was obtained in accordance 
with section 582 of the Civil| Procedure Code, and (2) no 
inquiry was made to ascertain the value of the property ; leave 
was reserved to the plaintiff to rectify his procedure in these 
respects. 

Plaintiff, however, in appeal contends that these requiremente 
were unnecessary. The learned District Judge's order shows he 
held these necessary, because the defendants had questioned 
plaintiffs' assertion that the lands of the estate, whereof plaintiffs 
are heirs, were worth under Es. 1,000, asserting they were of 
Rs. 3,500 value, and because in case No. 160 of the District Court 
of K^galla (2 S. C. R. 81, 3 C. L. R. 26) this Court had suggested 
that, even if a next friend had been appointed under section 481 , 
it would seem as if section 582 would prevent him from suing 
until he had also obtained a certificate of curatorship. 

It is necessary, therefore, now to rule upon what was then only 
a suggestion ; and in my humble opinion this necessity, that an 
appointment of a next friend should be supplemented by a certificate 
of curatorship, does not exist. 

In the first place, chapter XXXV. of the Cede nowhere so 
requires it ; and it is to be remembered that the two procedures of 
a minor suing by his next friend, and of a curator obtaining his 
certificate for all purposes whatever, and, if need be, thereafter 
bringing an action, are entirely distinct in their nature. The 
minor may often, as here, be only a necessary party to an action 
brought by others, the result whereof may or may not give or 
ensure him a right to some property. It may be that that property 
and all else belonging to him may be so inconsiderable in value, 
and so safely guarded for him by his relatives, tiiat not only 
would certificate of curatorship be unnecessary, but it would be 
a positive hardship to require it to be taken to his loss in the 
cost thereof. When, however, his interests require he should 
have a permanent curator who shall have right to litigate when 
necessary, but who very possibly may never have to litigate at 
all, but only to receive and apply the income of the estate, such 
curator must of course be clothed with the authority of a 
certificate. 

These are the three possibilities : (1) a minor may himself 
sue by his next friend ; (2) his duly appointed curator may sue for 
him ; and (3) a relative of a minor whose estate is under Es. 1,000, 
desiring to see the child's rights protected in some action which 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 4 ) 

he may deem neoeesary to be mstituted, may get a special quasi 
curatorship authority from the court limited to that one action 
only. This last is the object of the proviso to section 582. Certifi- 
cate of curatorship is necessary only for actions instituted or defended 
by a curator in his own name qtia curator, and is not necessary 
for actions instituted (or defended) " by a minor by his next 
** friend " (or guardian ad litem). 

As regards the ground that no inquiry has been made as to the 
value of property, there seems to be some confusion. It would 
not have been necessary at all to inquire as to the value of a 
minor's property when application w^as made that a next friend or 
guardian should be appointed to aid him in litigation. Such 
inquiry need be made only when it is sought to appoint a curator 
generally or for the limited pur|X)se contemplated by section 582 
(proviso). But in this action the objection taken by defendant 
concerning value of property is that plaintiffs, as a body, could 
not sue without having administered their mother's estate, and 
this no doubt the Judge will yet have to determine according as 
he shall find what is the value of her estate. 

The appointment of the next friend being otherwise unques- 
tioned, this order must be set aside, but without costs, and the 
action remitted for trial. 



Withers, J. — 

The order complained of is one directing that the case be t-aken 
off the trial roll to enable the first plaintiff to obtain the requisite 
authority to sue under the 582nd section of the Civil Procedure 
Code. 

The action is to recover lands alleged to be in the unlawful 
possession of the defendants. It is brought by the husband of 
one Pitcha Uma, deceased, to whose estate in the premises he and 
their children have (it is alleged) succeeded on intestacy. 

The father sues for his own interest, and he claims to sue as the 
next friend of two of his children, the fifth and sixth plaintiff. 
He himself is the first plaintiff, and his order of appointment as 
next friend is to be found at page 44. 

The defendants appeared to the summons issued on the accep- 
tance of the plaint and answered. 

The trial was fixed for the 4th September. On that day the Dis- 
trict Judge, of his own motion, called on the plaintiffs' Proctor to 
show cause why the plaintiffs' action should not be dismissed, on 
the ground that first plaintiff's appointment as next friend is 
invalid by reason of no certificate having been obtained tinder the 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 5 ) 

provisions of section 582 of the Civil Procedure Code, and becauKC 
no inquiry was made to ascertain the value of the property. 

The value of the minors' property sought to be recovered must 
not be confounded with the whole inheritance. 

The value of the inheritance is a question put in issue on the 
pleadings. 

The property sought to be recovered in this action is assessed 
in the plaint at Rs. 400 only. That is not traversed in the answer. 
Two of the five children only are minors. 

Their share of the premises, assessing it to be two-fifths of 
three-fourths of Rs. 400, is considerably under Rs. 1,000. 

The appointment of the next friend was made with consent of 
the defendants, who raised no objection on the ground of the 
value of the minors' interest in the premises exceeding Rs. 1,000. 

Hence, under section 582, the father was not disqualified to act 
as next friend even if he claimed to have charge of the fifth and 
sixth plaintiffs' share of the premises. But he has made no such 
claims, and because he comes forward to recover shares in land 
withheld from them, their adult brethren and himself, I fail to see 
why he should be considered to claim charge of their shares. Non 
constat, that he will not place the children in charge of their shares 
when recovered, or give them up to any one they nominate. 

They consented to their father being api)ointed their next 
friend. Anyhow it seems to me that the utmost the Judge could 
do was to have the names of the fifth and sixth plaintiffs struck out 
as improperly joined, and to let the trial continue. But in my 
opinion the plaintiff should be allowed to carry on the action as 
constituted, and I would set aside the order and remit the case 
for trial. 

Reading sections 481 and 493 together, 1 understand the Code to 
say that any person being of sound mind and full age, so long as 
his interest is not adverse to that of the minor, and he is not a 
defendant in the aotion, may, if he is otherwise a fit person, be 
appointed next friend of a minor. 

If he claims charge of a minor's property of the value of 
Rs. 1,000 under a deed or will, or by reason of nearness of kin and 
otherwise, he cannot institute an action with reference to that 
property unless he first takes out a certificate of curatorship. 

Lawbie, A.C.J. — 

In the K^galla case reported in the 3rd volume of the Ceylon Law 
Reports, p. 26, I expressed the opinion that a next friend regularly 
appointed under section 481 must get a certificate of curatorship 
before he could brinir an action in the name of the minors. C " r^r>.t^\r> 

^ Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( 6 ) 

I feel it difficult to reconcile some of the provisions of the 35th 
chapter \*'ith those of the 40th chapter of the Code. It is hard to 
ignore or to explain away the plain words of section 582, " no 
" person shall be entitled to institute or defend any action connected 
" with the estate of a minor of which he claims charge until he 
" shall have obtained such certificate." 

Is the solution to be found in the words '' of which he daims 
" charge " ? 

A next friend may have no pretension to have charge of the 
minor's property ; perhaps if he does not a certificate is not 
necessary. 

It is clear that in some circumstances a next friend may sue in 
the minor's name without getting a certificate ; for instance, under 
section 590 the next friend may sue the curator. 

I therefore concede that it is a reasonable construction of the 
35th chapter, that a man regularly appointed under section 481 is 
clothed with authority to sue without getting a certificate, and 
also a man appointed under section 479 may defend without the 
same certificate. 

I agree with my brother Withers, and in the result arrived at 
by my brother Browne, but not with all his comments on the 
Ordinance. 



GABRIEL APPUHAMY v. PELIS PERERA 
APPUHAMY et al 
D. C, Negombo, 1,355. 
FiscaTs conveyance to purchaser in execution sale — Ordinance No, 4 of 
1867, 8s. 54, 56, and 58 — And Civil Procedure Code, ss. 283 and 
286 — Confirmation by Court — Projyer time for conveyance. 
Upon a sale in execution duly hold in 1 871 imder Ordinance No. 4 
of 1867, and no objection having been taken thereto within thirty 
days of the scJe — 

Held, per Withers and Browne, JJ. (Lawrie, AC.J., disseri- 
tiente), that it was competent to the Fiscal to pass a conveyance to 
the purchaser in 1893, and that such conveyance was valid. Such 
purchaser not being execution-creditor, an express order of court 
to convey is not necessary. 

Held further, per Withers, J., that it was only sales of property 
held after the Civil Procediu'e Code came into operation that 
required an order of confirmation as a condition precedent to a 
FiscaFs conveyance. 

^T^HE laud in dispute, in tliis case of ejectment, belonged to 

*- one Martelis Perera Appiihamy, who by deed No. 474, dated 

16th May, 1870, leased it to one Domingo Fernando R^ndrala for a 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 7 ) 

term of twenty years, and put him in possession thereof. On the 
31st August, 1871, the Fiscal of Negombo, in piu^uance of a writ of 
execution issued against Martelis Perera, seized the land and sold 
it by public auction to the plaintiff, who bought it subject to the 
lease in favour of Domii^o Fernando. On the death of the lessee, 
his legal representatives, by deed dated 11th August, 1874, 
assigned to the plaintiff the unexpired term of the lease and put 
him in possession of the land. He continued to hold it till the 
expiry of the lease, and thereafter on the 11th May, 1893, obtained 
from the Fiscal a conveyance of the premises in his favour, as 
purchaser in execution. The plaintiff averred in his plaint (filed 
on the 5th September, 1893) that the defendants, on the 28th 
February, 1892, entered upon the land, and, having ousted the 
plaintiff's lessee, were in unlawful possession thereof ; and he 
prayed for declaration of title and for ejectment of defendants. 

The second defendant only appeared, and in his answer he 
averred that the Court, by its order dated 7th February, 1893, had 
refused to confirm the sale in question, which was therefore no 
sale. He also pleaded that the Fiscal's conveyance was obtained by 
fraud ; and denying the ouster and unlawful possession complained 
of, he claimed the land as his own by right of purchase from 
Martelis Perera (from whom the plaintiff also professed to derive 
his title) by deed dated 11th March, 1892, and didy registered on 
the 12th March, 1892.^ He prayed for declaration of title and for 
dismissal of the plaintiff's action. 

The Court framed the following issues : — 

(1) Is the Fiscal's conveyance in plaintiff's favour void by 
reason of there being no authority of Court for its issue ? 

(2) If valid, what is the effect of its registration ? 

(3) If the conveyance be void, does the plaintiff's possession 
enure to his benefit ? 

Upon argument, the plaintiff's action was dismissed with copts, 
and judgment was entered for the second defendant, declaring 
him owner of the land . 

The plaintiff appealed. 

The appeal was argued first on the 12th March, 1895, before 
Lawrie, A.C.J., and Withers, J. And their Lordships not being 
able to agree to a judgment, it was argued again on the 5th April, 
1896, before Lawrie, A.C.J. , and Withers and Browne, JJ. 



Wendt and DornJwrst, for appellant. 
Bawa, for respondents. 



Cm^M^b^^oogle 



( 8 ) 
17th April, 1895. Lawrib, A.C.J.— 

The plaintifiF averred that on the 3lst August, 1871, he purchased 
the land in question at a Fiscars sale held in execution of a writ 
against Martelis Perera. 

The defendants in the present action said that they could not 
admit the fact of the sale in execution, and they put the plaintiff 
to the proof of it. 

The only evidence of the sale adduced at the trial was a convey- 
ance by the Fiscal dated in 1893 (twenty-two years after the 
alleged sale). 

1 shall, however, for the purposes of this judgment, assume that 
it has been proved that the sale in execution in 1871 was in all 
respects regular, and that the plaintiff, as purchaser at that sale, had 
a right then to get a conveyance from the Fiscal if he paid the 
price, supplied the 8tami)8 and siu'vey fees, &c., required by the 
Ordinance No. 4 of 1876. 

The plaintiff did not apj)ly for or get a conveyance. 

He was in possession of the land as lessee under a lease for 
twenty years, which expired in 1892 ; the former owner of the 
land transferred the land to the defendant in this action, who 
registered the transfer. 

The plaintiff made two attempts to get the Court to authorize 
the Fiscal to grant a conveyance, and he failed. In one of these 
attempts the order of the District Judge was brought to this Court 
in appeal, and the order was affirmed. 

Bumside, C.J., observed that in his opinion " no right exists 
*' to call on a Fiscal to execute a conveyance . . . outside the 
" action in which the property has been sold," and he added he 
" knew of no law by which the Fiscal becomes liable to the whole 
• world to make a conveyance." 

These observations were obitefy but they are valuable as having 
been expressed in regard to the right of this very plaintiff to get 
the conveyance on which he now founds his case. 

Notwithstanding the refusal of the Court to compel the Fiscal to 
grant him a conveyance, the plaintiff went to the Fiscal, who (either 
ignorant of the proceedings already taken, or thinking that he was 
boxmd to grant a conveyance, or tliat he was entitled to do so) 
grante<l the conveyance of the 10th May, 1893, which recites that 
the sale was held on the Slst of August, 1871. 

The learned District Judge framed this issue : — 

'* Is the FiscaVs conveyance in the plaintiff's favour void by 
reason of there being no authority of Court for its issue ? " 

The learned Judge decided in the affirmative. I think he was 
right. Fiscals have no common law rights, and are 

Digitized by 



( 9 ) 

common law obligationa to grant conveyances ; they can do so 
only in strict conformity with the Civil Procedure Code. The 
older provisions of the Ordinance No. 4 of 1867 have been repealed. 

By the present law a Fiscal cannot grant a conveyance unless 
he has before him a conBrmation of the sale by the Court. 

I can find nothing in the Cede which gives a Fiscal an excep- 
tional right to convey, without confirmation, if the sale was held 
before the Code came into operation. 

There is a diflFerenoe in the form of conveyance used under the 
Code and that used under the Ordinance No. 4 of 1867. There is 
also, I believe, some difference in the amount of stamp duty now 
exigible. I do not think it could be contended that a Fiscal now 
has right to issue a conveyance in the old form, or with the old 
amount of stamps (in this case it is the new form of conveyance 
which has been signed). 

It seems to me that a Fiscal is so completely the creature of 
what remains of the Ordinance No. 4 of 1867 and of the Code that 
he has no right to attempt to transfer property except in strict 
conformity with these laws. 

It is true that Fiscals holding office prior to August, 1890, had 
more discretion given to them in the matter of giving transfers 
than their successors since 1890 have had, but the Fiscal who gave 
the conveyance in 1893 had the lesser rights and powers, and the 
Fiscal gave (in that year) a conveyance without the confirmation 
of the Court. I venture to dissent from my brothers, and to express 
the opinion that he acted in excess of his powers, and that the 
conveyance is void. 

Even under the old law, a Fiscal would, in my opinion, have 
exceeded his duty if after the lapse of ten years he had given a 
conveyance. Here twenty-two years had passed and new interests 
had been created. 

WrrBCERS, J. — 

I regret that I am unable to concur with my Lord. Under the 
Ordinance No. 4 of 1867 it was enacted in the 64th section that no 
sale shoidd be held " bad on the ground of irregularity or infor- 
" mality, objection to which was not made within thirty days of the 
" sale." If within that time no application was made under section 
63 of the Ordinance to set aside the sale, on the ground of a 
material irregularity in the publishing or conducting it whereby 
the applicant sustained substantial injury, the sale was good, and 
coald not be impeached. (See SiUery's case in 52 L. •/., P. C. 7.) 
In section 66 of the Ordinance it is enacted as follows : " If the 
" Court abaU not have disallowed the sale, and the purgh«»^r s^I^qqI^ 



( 10 ) 

" have paid the full amoimt of the purchase-money according to the 

• conditions of sale, and shall have supplied the Fiscal or Deputy 

* Fiscal with stamped paper of the proper amount required by law 
" for the conveyance of the land sold to him (which stamped paper 
" he shall be bound to supply when he pays the pm^chase-money in 
** full), the Fiscal or Deputy Fiscal shall make out and execute a 
** conveyance of the property according to the form hereunto 
*' annexed, and marked J, in duplicate." 

On the 10th May, 1893, the Fiscal assigned and delivered to the 
appellant the conveyance of property which had been judicially 
sold on the Slst August, 1871, the property being a reversion of 
the interest in the land on the expiry of a lease for a long term of 
years. It was the duty of the Fiscal to grant the conveyance and a 
privilege of the purchaser to compel the performance of that duty. 

This is not a case imder the 58th section of that Ordinance, in 
which an express order of the Court was required before the 
Fiscal could dehver a conveyance to the purchaser. 

The Ordinance No. 2 of 1889, in section 2, expressly declares 
that the repeal of the Ordinance in the third column thereof 
(including, therefore. No. 4 of 1867) should not affect any right, 
privilege, obligation, or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred 
under any enactment hereby repealed. The right to call for the 
Fifical's conveyance of the property sold in 1870 had accrued to 
the plaintiff before the Ordinance No. 2 of 1889 had come into 
operation. 

In my opinion it is only sales of property held after the Civil 
Procedure Code came into operation that require an order of 
confirmation as a condition precedent to a Fiscars conveyance, all 
other necessary conditions being fulfilled. To hold otherwise 
would be to give a retrospective effect to the Civil Procedure Code. 

I would answer the District Judge's issue in the negative, and 
therefore in favour of the plaintiff, who is entitled to succeed. 

[The foregoing judgment having been read. Withers, J., 
continued as follows : — ] 

I ventinre to adhere to the foregoing opinion which I first formed 
on the question submitted to us for decision, and that is, to quote 
the words of the District Judge, " Is the Fiscal's conveyance in 
*' plaintiff's favour void by reason of there being no authority of 
** Court for its issue ? " I would therefore, for the reasons advanced 
in my former opinion, answer this question in the negative, and 
send the case back for all other questions properly raised in the 
pleadings or settled, as the case may be, to be decided in the 
Court below. 



The appellant is entitled to his costs in appeal. 

Digitized by 



Google 



( 11 ) 

I wish to add that I am quite taxable to understand how the 
action in which the premises were bought and sold in execution of 
the judgment can be considered a pending one, so as to be affected 
by the provisions of section 3 of the Civil Procedure Code. 
Execution happened more than twenty years ago. 



Bbowne, J. — 

On 16th May, 1870, Martelis leased the land for twenty years. On 
31st August, 1871, under a writ against him in the action 4,567, 
D. C, Negombo, plaintiff, not as execution-creditor, but as an 
outsider, bought the lessor's reversionary interest, but did not 
cause the Fiscal to execute a conveyance in his favour. On the 
11th August, 1874, the plaintiff purchased the unexpired term of 
the lease and entered into possession, and possessed by himself or 
his lessee for the rest of the period of the original lease, t.e., to 
16th May, 1890, and thereafter imtil 28th February, 1892, when he 
was evicted by defendant. Martelis, eleven days subsequently to 
this eviction (11th March, 1892), professed to sell to defendant the 
land by a deed which defendant registered on the following day, 
the 12th. On the 10th May, 1893, plaintiff obtained his Fiscal 's 
conveyance, and sued on the 5th September, 1893, for declaration 
of his title and ejectment of defendant. 

Question has been raised whether the Fiscal, after the passing of 
the Civil Procedure Code, could legally have executed this con- 
veyance without the sale having been confirmed by the Court under 
the provisions of section 283. 

For the defendant it is submitted that the granting of the 
conveyance was a step in the procedure of the action, and tliat, 
as under section 3 of the Civil Procedure Code every action 
pending in any court on the Ist August, 1890, should be proceeded 
with to final judgment and execution, under the provisions of the 
Code confirmation of the sale was necessary, since the Code had 
repealed the provisions of part 9, sections 47-58, of the Fiscals' 
Ordinance, No. 4 of 1867. 

For the plaintiff it is contended that the right or privilege of 
the plaintiff to obtain this conveyance, and the liability of the 
Fiscal to execute and grant it, was saved from re^x^al in liis favour 
by section 2 of the Code. 

I hold that the latter contention must prevail. II is not shown 
that the action 4,567 was still pending on the 1st August, 1890. 
The last entry in its journal is of date 12th December, 1871, and 
apparently shows that the creditor then received payment in 
satisfaction of his decree. r ^ r\r\rAo 

Digitized by VjOO^ IC 



( 12 ) 

The plaintiff-piirchaser, after the expiry of the thirty days for 
objections, was in the same position as a purchaser who has 
arrived at the stage provided for in section 286 of Civil Procedure 
Code, and if in either case the result of the sale (and, under the 
Code, its confirmation) has been the entire satisfaction of the 
claim, the action is no longer " pending " and within the provi- 
sions of section 3. This procedure to execution terminated 
under No. 4 of 1867 on the expiry of the thirtieth day, when the 
sale was not challenged, and did not continue thereafter, viz., till 
confirmation of sale as under the Code, section 283. Consequently 
there was not any procedure to final execution necessary which 
section 3 should regulate and carry through. 

Moreover, the right of the purchaser and the liability of the 
Fiscal, whose authority is still derived loider part I. of No. 4 of 
1867, still continued when this conveyance was executed. It lias 
not been shown that the purchaser failed to pay according to the 
conditions and complete his purchase — ^rather the contrary ; and 
the right and corresponding obligation under section 66 are clear, 
and are saved in plaintiff's favour by section 2 of the Code. It is 
however submitted that the plaintiff did not supply stampecl 
paper for the conveyance in his favour when he paid the purchase- 
money in full ; but it is not shown that the Ordinance in such a 
contingency and for such omission nullified the sale or gave the 
Fiscal right of parate execution — section 51 did not so provide, 
nor did the Ordinance prescribe what would result upon such 
default other than what we may suppose possible, — ^that the 
Fiscal might either decline to execute the conveyance till the 
stamps were supplied, or supply them, and tendering delivery of 
the executed deed require payment of their value, if necessary, by 
action for that purpose. 

The judgment should therefore be set aside, and the first issue 
decided in favour of plaintiff. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 13 ) 

SILVA V. HENDRICK APPU. 

D. C, GaUe, 2,640. 

Action for declaration of title by purchaser at a sale in execution, without 
conveyance from Fiscal — Validity of such action — Civil Procedure 
Code, s. 289"-'' Right and title "— " Legal estaU.'' 

Where a purchaser at an execution sale came into court praying 
for declaration of title, without having a Fiscal's conveyance in 
his favour at the time of the institution of the action, and undertook 
to procure and produce such conveyance at the trial of the case : — 

Held, per Lawbie, A.C. J., and Withers, J. {dissentiente Browne, 
J.)f that the action was not maintainable. 

Withers, J. — Under the Code, the right and title of the judg- 
ment-debtor to immovable property sold by virtue of an execution 
writ is not divested by the sale until the confirmation of the sale 
by the CJourt and the execution by the Fiscal's conveyance. 

The expressions *' right and title " and " leged estate '' used in 
section 289 are synonymous. 

THE facts of the case appear sufficiently in the judgments 
delivered by their Lordships. 
The plaintifF appealed against the dismissal of his action. 

Pieris and Jayawardana, for appellants. 

Wendt and Blaz^, for respondents. 

Cur. adv, mill. 
19th March, 1896. Browne, J — 

One Harmanis, having recovered judgment and issued writ 
against his debtors, was declared purchaser of the trees of a land 
at an execution sale held on 7th June, 1893. Before he obtained 
the Fisoal's conveyance, he on the next day assigned to plaintiff 
cdl his rights in the action and land, and emx)owered plaintiff to 
obtain the Piscal's conveyance. In further execution of the writ 
plaintiff himself on the 11th July purchased the soil of the land. 

Ere thirty days from the time that reports of the Fiscal to the 
Court could well have been made and orders confirmatory of sales 
and conveyances themselves thereafter could have been obtained, 
and in fact before these preliminaries were completed, the Fiscal 
on the 13th September seized for resale the same debtor's interest 
in the same land, and plaintiff thereupon claimed the l^nd. His 
claim was rejected on the 21st December, and he instituted this 
action stating these facts in full, and thereby showing his title to 
the trees and soil was still imperfect, but expressly undertaking to 
perfect his titles ere trial and then to produce the Fiscal's transfeis 
in hifl favour. . ^ I 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 14 ) 

Defendant, in answer, objected to the sufficiency of the declara- 
tion, in that the sale of the trees to plaintiff " is null and void 
*' plaintiff's vendor not having any title in them to convey, he not 
*' havinig taken out Fiscal's transfers for the same." And at the 
trial a preliminary issue of law was stated apparently by the Court : 
'' Is the sale of 8th June, 1893, to plaintiff good, in absence of 
Fiscal's transfer ? " Defendant further answered that plaintiff had 
not acquired title to the soil, in that he had not been substituted 
plaintiff on the original record, nor obtained the sanction of the 
CJourt to bid, and the Court framed another " preliminary issue of 
law and fact" thereon: "Did plaintiff's purchase of 11th July, 
1893, pass title to plaintiff ? " But defendant did not offer the 
proofs necessary to sustain such plea, and it is unnecessary to 
consider it. 

Apparently plaintiff had obtained his transfers ere the trial and 
was ready to produce them, but the learned District Judge held 
that, as under section 289 the right and title of the judgment- 
debtor to property sold is not divested by the sale until the con- 
firmation of the sale by the Court and execution of the plaintiff's 
conveyance, plaintiff had no title to the land when he filed his 
plaint, and so had no right to institute his action, which he 
accordingly dismissed with costs. 

Now, as regards actual title to the land, this Court has, in 
accordance with the subsequent provision in section 289 that on 
subsequent execution of the Fiscal's conveyance the grantee is 
deemed to be vested with the legal estate from time of sale, 
frequently upheld as good a title originally imperfect for want of 
intermediate Fiscal's conveyance, but subsequently perfected by 
its having been obtained (9 S. C. C. 32 and 92, 1 S, C. R. 73, 
2 C. L. R. 192), and I see no reason whatever why a plaintiff may 
not, before so perfecting a title, i.e., when he has, not no title 
at all to land, but an imperfect title, capable of being easily 
perfected, institute an action to enforce his rights under that 
title against a disputant. 

The action 11,092, District Court of Negombo {S. C. M., 15 June, 
1 883), was remitted by this Court \^1tli liberty to plaintiff to obtain 
and produce the Fiscal's conveyance neceseary to complete her 
title, and apparently the plaintiff in 16,716, District Court of 
Negombo (9 S. C. C. 92), on being ousted in January, 1889, 
instituted that action ere he obtained his Fiscal's conveyance on 
19th March, 1889. Such an action is of course instituted at the 
risk of the title being still imperfect at trial, and of its dismissal 
by reason thereof. 

I would set aside the decree, with costs, and remit the action 
for trial. f ^ T 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 15 ) 

Withers, J. — 

I understand the facte to be briefly as follows. 

In the execution of a judgment against one Podi Sinho and 
one Avis de Silva, the execution-creditor, Harmanis Appu, caused 
to be seized and sold some thirty-two trees growing in a garden 
known as Maginagewatta, and himself became the purchaser at 
the Fiscal's auction. The sale under the writ took place on 7th 
June, 1893. 

Before obtaining a Fiscal's certificate of transfer the buyer 
assigned his interest in the said thirty-two trees to the plaintiff. 
Indeed, his assignment was made on the 8th of June, the very 
next day. 

Harmanis, the said execution-creditor, on the same day assigned 
the unsatisfied balance of his judgment against the said Podi 
Sinho and the said Avis de Silva to the plaintiff. In the following 
month, I.e., the 11th July, 1893, the soil of the said Maginagewatta 
was sold in execution of a writ of the said Harmanis and purchased 
by the plainttff . 

The plaint is so carelessly drawn up, as not to say in execution 
against whom — Podi Sinho or Avis de Silva — or to whom the 
trees first and then the land were judicially sold as described. 

I imagine it to be Podi Sinho 's, as the cause of action is the 
seizure by the defendant on the 13th of September, 1893, of this 
very land in execution of a judgment he had recovered against 
the said Podi Sinho. 

The plaintiff confesses that, when he instituted this action, he 
had not procured a transfer from the Fiscal either of the said 
thirty-two trees of the land Maginagewatta or of the soil of the 
said garden sold under his vendor's writs. 

If the Fiscal had already sold this land in July, 1893, as Podi 
Sinho's property, how he came to seize it again in September 
under a writ against that person I find it difficult to understand, 
as I do his conduct in selling growing timber one day and the 
next the soil on which the timber grows ; but in that district 
houses and growing trees are not regarded apparently as being 
attached to the soil. 

However, as a matter of fact, the Fiscal did on the 13th Septem- 
ber, 1893, seize this garden and advertise it for sale at the 
instance of the defendant. Nine days after the seizure plaintiff 
objected to the Fiscal selling this land. He claimed it as his, 
though I cannot find the terms of his claim or of the Fiscal's 
reference of it to the Court. He says that after inquiry his claim 
so referred to the Court was dismissed. Within fourteen days, 
under the 247th clause of the Code, he comes forward to establish t 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 16 ) 

Mb clAim ; but what Wh^ tas claim 7 I suppose to the land as his 
own absolutely, but I have to guess at this fact. I shall assume 
that he did claim the land as one who had purchased it at a sale 
in execution, but had not obtained a PiscaJ's transfer. 

It appears that at some stage of the proceedings in this action 
the plaintiff procured from the Fiscal a transfer of the thirty-two 
trees and a transfer of the soil which had been judicially sold in 
June and July as above stated, but on the 16th of July, 1894, certain 
preliminary issues of law and of fact were discussed between the 
parties to this action, with the result that the District Judge 
dismissed the action with costs, on the groimd that, when the 
plaintiff instituted the action, he had no cause of action, having 
no title in the land which defendant had seized, and the seizure 
of which was opposed by the plaintiff. 

The Acting Chief Justice supports this ruling, but my brother 
Bbowne would allow the case to be remitted for plaintiff to 
prove his Fiscal's transfers to the said land and the said thirty- 
two trees, relying, as regards this course, on a judgment of this 
Court in appeal from a dismissal of a plaintiff's action in eject- 
ment, on the ground that she had no proprietory title in the 
absence of a Fiscal's transfer, when the Court of appeal set aside 
the judgment and remitted the case, with liberty to the plaintiff to 
produce and prove her Fiscal's transfers, which in point of fact 
seem not to have been made out for a long time afterwards. 
This was an unreported case from Negombo in 1882 (Perera v. 
Jvlihami). My brother Browne also relied on those judgments 
of this Court which give effect to a Fiscal's transfer, so as to make 
it speak from the date of the sale under the writ. 

There were no reasons given for the judgment in the Negombo 
case of 1882, and as that was before the Civil Procedure Code, 
I Ao not think it can help us. We have to consider the 289th 
section of the Civil Procedure Code, which enacts, " the right 
" and title of the judgment-debtor, or of any person holding under 
" him, or deriving title through him to immovable property sold by 
" virtue of an execution, is not divested by the sale until the 
" confirmation of the sale by the Coiuli and the execution of 
** the Fiscal's conveyance. But if the sale is confirmed by the 
" Court and the conveyance is executed in pursuance of the sale, 
** the grantee in the conveyance is deemed to have been vested 
** with the legal estate from the time of the sale." What is meant 
by the words ** legal estate," which are foreign to the Roman- 
Dutch law ? This section must be construed in reference to 
those which follow it, which limits the mode of user to the person 
in possession, be he the execution-debtor or the Fiscal as the 
purchaser's agent. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 17 ) 

The right and title of the judgmentdebtor to immovable property 
sold by virtue of an execution is not divested by the sale until the 
confirmation of the sale by the Court and the execution of the 
Fiscal's conveyance. 

The " right and title " is used as synonymous with the " legal 
•* estate," a term well known in the English law, which it seems to me 
must be our guide in interpreting this part of the Code. We must 
go back to the statute of uses," and the judgment-debtor must be 
regarded as a trustee who has the fee simple in legal estate, while 
the purchaser in execution must be considered as having an equitable 
interest or estate. The title is in the trustee of a judgment-debtor, 
and the right to use the property for limited purposes is in him or 
the person in possession. 

This right and title, such as it is, belongs to the trustee against 
all the world. • 

The purchaser, when thirty days have elapsed, must have the 
sale confirmed and procure a conveyance from the Fiscal. Having 
done that, the legal and the equitable estates unite, and he can 
force the trustee, t'.c, judgment-debtor or other person in possession 
of the immovable property, to surrender the land to him with an 
account of the profits. 

That " right and title " or " legal estate " is a right of property 
which can be seized and sold in execution. It can pass by devise. 
It could be sold by private transfer, and the purchaser could in 
the course of time, if he remained in possession without acknow- 
ledging the purchaser's equitable title, and using the property as 
Jus own for ten consecutive years, perhaps regain a prescriptive 
title to the detriment of the purchaser. Two conditions are required 
by the purchaser before he can acquire absolute dominium — ^he 
must procure the Court's confirmation and the Fiscal's conveyance. 
It is admitted that the plaintiff had not done so when he instituted 
this action. 

The difficulty that confronts us is the position of the piu'chaser, 
who, having made a claim similar to the plaintiff's, has to establish 
his claim within fourteen days of the order upholding the seizure 
under the provisions of the 247th section of the Civil Procedure 
Code. We have repeatedly held that, unless a claimant who has 
been defeated fails to come forward within fourteen days and 
establish his claim, the adverse order will be for ever conclusive 
against him. 

Mr. Wendt argues here that the order which drives the present 
plaintiff to establish his claim will not do him a permanent injury. 
As soon as he procures the necessary confirmation of sale and 
Fisoars conveyances he will be able to get possession of the land 

Vol. I. mm^GoOgle 



( 18 ) 

and enjoy it as the absolute owner. That may or may not be so. 
My brother Brownb would save him from the possible consequences 
of an affirmance of the judgment he appeals from, by allowing him for 
his protection to put in evidence the orders of confirmations and the 
conveyances which it seems he has acquired in the coiu«e of the 
cause. I would co-operate with my brother if I thought the law of 
the procediu-e admitted it. 

But I know of no provision which allows a plaintiff who has 
no title (i.e., here a legal estate) when he institutes a suit, and who 
gains one in the course of a cause to make use of that acquisition in 
support of his claim, which is dependent on the particular title 
acquired. In re Tottenham Local Board, 2 Times Reports , 410 y it 
was considered doubtful whether matter riot in existence ai the date 
of issue of writ can be introduced by amendment, but this is not an 
application for leave to amend. 

The only satisfactory reason I can assign for the order in appeal 
in the Negombo case relied on is that, under Ordinance No. 4 of 
1867, a purchaser, after thirty days from the Fiscal's sale, who had 
fulfilled all his conditions of sale, became the absolute owner of the 
land purchased under the contract of purchase and sale, and that 
the conveyance from the Fiscal was only evidence of the contract 
which it was indulgently permitted him to secure. 

No doubt the grantee of the conveyance is vested with the 
legal estete from the time of the sale, but not for the purpose of 
saviiig a plaintiff who makes a claim before a Fiscal and institutes 
an action to establish that claim, without that which gives him a 
good cause of action. 

The judgment must be affirmed, with costs. 

Lawrie, A.CJ. — 

When a plaintiff comes into Court praying for a declaration of 
title, he must possess at that time the title which he asks the Court 
to decree to be his. When this plaintiff brought this action he had 
not got a conveyance : he was not entitled to possession, he was not 
the owner of the land. 

The action must necessarily be dismissed, with costs. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 19 ) 
SILVA V. DINEKEHAMY. 

D. C, OaUe, 3,285. 

Civil Procedure Code, 8, 247 — Plaint presented within time, but rejected — 

Irregularity of accepting fresh plaint as ame.nded plaint, though out 

of time. 

No action solely and exclusively under section 247 of the Civil 
Procedure Code can be maintained if instituted more than fourteen 
days after the date of the order upholding the claim, to the property 
seized in execution. 

If a plaint is rejected, and is not put on the file of the Court, it 
cannot be said to constitute the institution of an action. 

npHIS action, which purported in the body of the plaint to be 
-^ raised under section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code, prayed 
as follows : — " WheVefore the plaintiff, claiming the benefits of the 
"3rd clause of Ordinance 22 of 1871, prays that his judgment- 
" debtors be declared entitled to the said premises, and that the 
** said property be declared executable under the said writ." 

It appeared that the order of Court releasing the property and 
allowing the defendant's claim was made on the 28th September, 
1894. The plaint was presented on the 10th October following, 
which was within the period of fourteen days allowed by the section. 
The District Judge rejected the plaint on the 12th October, ** because 
" it was not clearly written, and the value of the property was in 
" the wrong place." A new plaint dated 10th October was presented 
on the I9th October, and was accepted on the 22nd October, the 
Court holding that its " order of rejection must be taken as an order 
" for amendment, and the new plaint must be treated as amended 
" and as presented on the lOth." 

The Proctor for defendant, ere filing answer, moved that the 
action be dismissed with costs, on the ground that it was instituted 
too late. The District Judge disallowed the motion. 

The defendant appealed. 

Blaz^ appeared for appellant, and contended that the Court below 
should have dismissed the action. 

Domhorei, contra. An amended plaint is a subsitution of the 
original one (2 C. L. R. 187). The present order is not appealable, 
on the ground that there is sufficient material on the record to make 
the action in the alternative an actio hypothecaria. If so, it is not 
touched by the Code. 

Blazi, in reply. By section 46 of the Code the time must be 
limited for amendment. But in this case the Court fixed no time. 
So, the order must be taken as directing the plaint to be amended 
then and there. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 20 ) 
2lBt March, 1895. Withers, J.— 

We think it proper to affirm this order, refusing to dismiss the 
action on ar motion made by the Proctor for the defendant on the 
date appointed for his client to appear and answer to the summons 
issued on the aocepted plaint. 

It has been argued before us that this plaint is not one exclusively 
within the provisions of the section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code, 
but contains an alternative claim, one being independent of those 
provisions. But this point was not taken before the Court below, 
and we come to the conclusion that the defendants should answer 
this plaint in such a way as they may be advised. What we do now 
decide is, that if this is an action solety and exchisively under section 
247, it cannot be maintained, inasmuch as the action has been 
instituted more than fourteen days after the date of the order up- 
holding the defendant's claim on the property seized in execution. 

A plaint was submitted to the Judge within the requisite time, 
but the Judge rejected the plaint for the reasons which he has 
recorded on the record at page 24. Not till the 22nd October, 1894, 
and therefore long after the prescribed time, was the present plaint 
submitted and accepted. 

If a plaint is rejected and is not put on the file of the Court, it 
cannot be said to constitute the institution of an action. 

It is because of the way the Judge intended to deal with the 
rejected plaint and of the concluding paragraph of section 46 of 
the Civil Procedure Code, which says that the rejection of a plaint 
shall not of its own force preclude the plaintiff from presenting a 
fresh plaint in respect of the same cause of action, that we allow 
this judgment to stand with the limitation mentioned before. 

We cannot allow a fresh plaint in respect of an action under 
section 247, but only in respect of an action that lies outside that 
section. 

Costs to abide the event. 



Lawrie, A.C.J. — 

I agree. Tliis is an action under section 247, which cannot be 
entertained, as the plaint was presented too late. In agreeing to 
send the case back for further proceedings, I express no opinion 
whether the plaint contains any other cause of action. That is a 
matter not yet dealt with by the District Court, and will be dealt 
with on the defendant's answer. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 21 ) 
MUTTU NATCHIA ei al v, PATUMA NATCHIA ei al, 

D. C, Kalutara, 1,032. 

Landlord and tenant — Denial of tenancy and. of notice to quit — Evidence — 
Averme.nt and proof of notice, when not necessary. 

A tenant, who disclaims to hold of his landlord and puts him at 
defiance, is not entitled to have the action against him dismissed for 
want of a valid notice to quit. 

And in such tkction the plaintiff need not aver and prove any 
notice to quit. 

T^HE plaintiffs raised this action for the recovery of arrears 
-*- of rent of a house alleged to be due from the defendants and 
for ejectment of the defendants therefrom. It was averred that 
the defendants occupied the house as their monthly tenants on 
condition of pajring rent monthly till the end of the year 1891, but 
that in January, 1892, they questioned plaintiffs' title to the premises 
and refused to pay rent, and had been since then unlawfully with- 
holding possession of the same, though they had received notice to 
quit. 

The defendants, in their answer, traversed these allegations, and 
setting up title in themselves prayed for dismissal of the plaintiffs' 
action. 

Two issues were framed : — (1) Had Plaintiffs a right of owner- 
ship to the house, and (2) did defendants hold under plaintiffs. 

After examination of the plaintiffs, the Proctor for defendants 
contended that the notice given to the defendants was bad, as it 
.was not a full calendar month's notice (7 S. C. R. 352). Upon 
further argument the District Judge dismissed the plaintiffs' action 
upon the ground that the plaintiffs had " no standing in view of the 
" valueless notice to quit said to have been served upon defendants." 

The plaintiffs appealed. 

Pieris, for appellants. 
Perera, for respondents. 



1st March, 1895. Browne, J. — 

The plaint in this case sufficiently averred that the defendant, 
after entering and holding as tenant of the plaintiff, had disclaimed 
to hold of him and put him at defiance. It was unnecessary there- 
fore that the plaintiff, as he did, should have averred or have sought 
to prove any notice to quit given by him to defendant, and defendant 
was not entitled to have the action dismissed because no valid 
notice was given. f^^r^^Xr^ 

^ Digitized by LjOOgle 



( 22 ) 

The decree of dismissal must therefore be set aside and the action 
remitted for trial, but as the plaintiff himself acted throughout 
as if such notice was necessary until apparently after the decree 
was pronounced, when he more clearly apprehended his position, 
he is not entitled to recover any costs of the proceedings up to and 
inclusive of this appeal from the defendant. 

Lawrie, A.C.J. — 
I agree. 



ESTE V. SILVA. 



P. C, Oalie, 3,179. 

Maintenance — Ordinance No, 19 oj 1889, a. 8 — Terms o/ original order of 

maintenance — Subsequent order enlarging previous order. 

Under section 8 of the Ordinance No. 19 of 1889, if a Police 

Magistrate thinks tliat a child should be maintained until he or she 

attains the age of eighteen years, such time must be specified in 

the order of the Police Magistrate. 

If an order is silent as to the time, it has no force after the subject 
of the order has attained the age of fourteen yeetrs, and a subsequent 
order extending the allowance for the maintenance until the child 
attains the age of eighteen years is ultra vires. 

TN this case for maintenance, the defendant, in obedience to an 
*- order of Court, had been paying monthly to his wife, the com- 
plainant, Rs. 6 for her maintenance and that of his two children. 
Subsequently the defendant refused to pay for the maintenance 
of his eldest daughter, on the ground that she bad attained her 
fourteenth year. The Police Magistrate ordered that the main- 
tenance should be continued till the child attained her eighteenth 
year, as she appeared to be not more than ten years, and was unable 
to earn her livelihood. 
The defendant appealed. 

Aserappa, for appellant. 

27th March, 1895. Withkes, J.— 

This order must be vacated. 

The Magistrate had no power to order the appellant to continue 
the allowance to his daughter until she had attained the age of 
eighteen years, inasmuch as that age had not been fixed in the 
original order for the child's maintenance. 

The original order made on the 30th January, 1891, was based 
on the submission of the appellant to deposit Rs. ^J^o^'^fxQJp 

igi ize y g 



( 23 ) 

loth February following, and a similar sum on every succeeding 
month before the 10th day of such month. The terms of that 
order were unlimited as to time. Now, section 8 of Ordinance 
No. 19 of 1889 enacts as follows :— 

" No order for an allowance for the maintenance of any child, 
" legitimate or illegit'mate, made in pursuance of this order shall, 
" except for the purpose of recovering money previously due under 
" such order, be of any force or validity after the child in respect 
" of whom it was made has attained the age of fourteen years, and 
" after the death of such child. Provided that the Police Magistrate 
" may in the order direct that the payments to be made under it in 
** reepeot of the child shall continue until the child attains the age 
" of eighteen years, in which case such order shall be in force until 
" that period." 

It is clear that if a child has to be maintained uTitil he or she 
attains the age of eighteen years, that time must be limited in the 
original order. As, however, the original order was silent as to 
the time, it has no vigour after the subject of the order has reached 
the age of fourteen years. An order cannot be made upon an order. 



QUEEN V. PODI BABA. 

Z>. C, (Cnmirud), KaluUira, 618. 

Defective warrant of arrest — Competeficy of a police headman a4 public 
servant to arrest a person charged with robbery, independently of a 
warrant — Causing hurt to such servant — Plea of private defence. 

Causing hurt to a police headman, while in good faith and under 
colour of his office he was executing a defective waiTant of arrest 
upon a person charged with robbery, is an offence under section 
323 of the Penal Code. 

And in the absence of any €fcct on the heekdtnan's part to cause 
reasonable apprehension of death or grievous hurt, the right of 
private defence cannot be availed of against an arrest mcbde by 
such public servant, who believed bond fide that he had the power to 
make the arrest. 

'IpHE accused having been charged with robbery, a warrant of 
-*- arrest was issued against him, addressed to one Jayasuria, 
Deputy Fiscal and Mudaliy^r of Rayigam korale, who entrusted 
it for execution to the complainant, Jayatilaka, Police Hodman 
of Rambukkana. Upon arresting the accused, the accused caused ^ 
him hurt by cutting him with a knife. Digitized by CjOOQIc 



( 24 ) 

The District Judge convicted the accused under section 323 of 
the Penal Code. 

On appeal, Jayaivardana appeared for defendant, and contended 
that the complainant had no authority to arrest the defendant, 
and that the warrant was informal because it did not disclose the 
district over which the signing Magistrate had jurisdiction, nor set 
forth sufficiently clearly the oflFence with which the defendant was 
charged. 

Cur. adv. vuU. 



19th March, 1895. Withers, J.— 

The question is whether the accused has been rightly convicted 
of an offence under section 323 of the Ceylon Penal Code, in that 
on a certain day in January last he voluntarily caused hurt to the 
prosecutor, being a public servant, in the discharge of his duty as 
such public servant. It was strenuously pressed upon me by Mr. 
Jayawardana that the warrant committed to the prosecutor was 
bad, and that the prosecutor had no power to execute it. 

The prosecutor, one David Perera Jayatilaka. is a Police Head- 
man of Rambukkana. The duty he was supposed to be discharg- 
ing at the time the accused assaulted him was the execution of a 
warrant of arrest signed by the Police Magistrate of Panadure. 

The warrant was produced before the Court, and is marked with 
the letter A. The warrant, it was urged, does not particularize 
with sufficient certainty the offence with which the person to be 
arrested under it stands charged, and it ddes not disclose the dibtjict 
over which the signing Magistrate has jurisdiction. In addition to 
these defects this warrant was not directed to the said David Perera 
Jayatilaka : it was directed to the Deputy Fiscal, Bandaragama. 

That officer did not, as he might have done, endorse the name 
of D. P. Jayatilaka upon the warrant. Hence Jayatilaka was not 
authorized to arrest the €iccu8ed under that warrant. I think the 
warrant should have specified the time and place of the committal 
of the offence, and that the local jurisdiction of the Magistrate to 
deal with it should have been disclosed on the face of the warrant. 
It is certainly dear that Jayatilaka was not authorized to execut-o 
the warrant. 

Still, this is not a complete defence in the circumstances. 
Jayatilaka is a public servant, and might have arrested the accused 
on the charge of robbery without a warrant. He was acting in 
good faith under colour of his office. He was executing a warrant 
signed by the Police Magistrate of the district which had been 

Digitized by VjOOQI€ 



( 25 ) 

handed to bim for execution. He himself believed he had a right to 
execute it. Li acting under it he did nothing to excite the reason- 
able apprehension of death or grievous hurt to the accused of t(^ 
any one. 

The 92nd section, sub-section 2, of the Penal Code enacts that 
** there is no right of private defence against an act which does 
** not reasonably cause the apprehension of death or of grievous 
** hurt, if done, or attempted to be done, by the direction of a 
" public servant acting in goood faith under colour of his office, 
'* though that direction may not be strictly justifiable by law.'' 

The conviction must therefore be affirmed. 



MUTTIAH V. MUTTUSAMY et cU. 

D. C, CUlaw, 965, 

Civil Procedure Code, chapter XLVIL- Power of Court to vacate an order 
of sequestration made on ex parte motion. 

A District Judge can,on good cause shown by the party aggrieved, 
vacate €mi ex parte order of sequestration which hfts been made at the 
instance of the plaintiff, under the provisions of chapter XL VII. of 
the Civil Procedure Code. 

npHE District Judge having allowed sequestration on the ex 
parte motion of plaintiff, the defendant appeared and moved 
to vacate the order of sequestration. The Court held it had no 
power to do so. 

The defendant appealed. 

Van Langenberg, for appellant. 

Bavxif for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vuU. 
12th March, 1895. Withers, J.— 

We are asked to decide an abstract and a concrete question in 
this matter. 

The abstract question is one of pure law, and is this : Can the 
District Judge, on good cause shown by the party aggrieved, 
vacate an ex parte order of sequestration which he has made at 
the instance of the plaintiff under the provisions of chapter 
XL VII. of the Civil Procedure Code ? Before I can declare 
that a District Judge has no power to vacate an order of the kind 
under these circumstances, I must be satisfied that the, power is 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



{ 26 ) 

denied him either by express enactment or by clear implication 
in the Code itself. It being nowhere said that he shall not have 
the power, is the denial of such power to be clearly implied from 
the words of the Code ? 

It was argued that we ought to imply a disqualification by reason 
of the foUowii^g considerations : The provisions of this Code are 
taken from the repealed Ordinance No. 15 of 1856, with the excep- 
tion of an important proviso to be found at the end of the 4th section 
of that Ordinance, viz., " Provided that such sequestration shall 
'* in all cases be dissolved on the defendant giving security to the 
" satisfaction of the Court equal to the value of the property 
"sequestered." 

Non constat that an ex parte order may not be dissolved on good 
cause shown by the party whose property has been sequestered 
on the ex parte application of the plaintiff ; non constat even that 
a District Judge may not in his judicial discretion in certain cases 
dissolve such an order on adequate security being furnished by the 
defendant. 

Then we were asked to infer this qualification because in this 
chapter there is no provision for the dissolution of an order, as 
there is in the next chapter relating to injunctions. But there is this 
difference in these two chapters : in chapter XL VII. there is no 
provision for informing the defendant that the Court will be moved 
to sequestrate his property. In chapter XLVIII., except in very 
rare cases, a defendant must have notice given him of plaintiff's 
intended application for an injunction. If the defendant appears 
and shows cause against an injunction, the order is inter partes, 
and could not be opened up by the Judge excejjt for the provisions 
in section 666. In ordinary circumstances he would have to appeal 
to this Court from an order inter partes. But in the present case 
the defendant would be without a remedy. He could not appeal 
to this Court because he had not applied to the Court below to set 
aside its ex parte order. This procedure has been repeatedly laid 
down by this Court as the right procedure. 

1 therefore do not hesitate to answer the question above stated 
in the affirmative. 

As to the other and, concrete question, it is this : Has the 
defendant shown good cause why the order of sequestration 
should not be dissolved ? He has shown very good cause in my 
opinion. There was no foundation for the order. There was no 
evidence that defendant was fraudulently alienating his property 
with intent to avoid payment of the plaintiff's claim, and, what 
is more, the plaintiff swore in support of his application for a 
mandate that defendant was indebted to him in the amo4int 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 27 ) 

claimed under his bond. The bond is ixot for a debt at all, but is 
for damage, if any ; and plaintiff makes out no case of damage in 
lus affidavit. For these reasons I would set aside the order appealed 
from, with costs. 

Bbowke, J.— 

The learned District Judge refused to dissolve a sequestration 
he had granted, holding he had right to grant it tx parte, and even 
in cases of debts secured by mortgage, when the Court was (as he 
held he was) satisfied that the plaintiff had no adequate security. 

In appeal the respondent has sought to support his ruling on the 
grounds that a Court has no power to dissolve a sequestration (save 
by consent) when once granted, even ex parte, for the reasons that 
(1) the Civil Procedure Code, by whose express provisions all proce- 
dure is concluded {2 C. L. R. 63), does not supplement the provisions 
of sections 661 and 653 by any provision to dissolve, such as is 
enacted in regard to dissolving injunctions by section 666, and 
removing receivers by section 674 ; and (2) the omission of the 
proviso enabling dissolution in the old procedure under Ordinance 
No. 15 of 1856, section 4, when adopting the rest thereof. And the 
absence of any provision of the effect of section 488, Civil Procedure 
Code (India), or of the provision for release of the debtor in the 
English Act while security of the defendant against damage is 
expressly required, indicates that such security was designed as a 
remedy substituted for discharge of person or release of property, 
and that these reliefs were no longer to be granted. I had so con- 
strued these provisions (when like objection was taken before me 
in the District Court, Colombo, in actions Nos. C/5,064 and C/5,373), 
though with reluctance, to hold that the Court had not the power to 
reconsider its own ex parte orders and discharge or release 
accordingly. In so holding, 1 would, however (and 1 believe I did), 
distinguish between cases where it was clear that the writ should 
never have issued owing to the absence of necessary material, e.g., 
the affidavit of the plaintiff himself, or his substitutes authorized by 
section 655. 

Accepting the decision of the rest of the Court that the District 
Court has no inherent jurisdiction in this respect which is not 
exjiressly given to it, — and I did not then feel justified in claiming 
for it, — I agree that the material on which this writ issued was 
insufficient, and that the order appealed from herein should be set 
aside, and defendant's motion allowed, with costs. 

Law&ie, A.C.J. — 

In my opinion this sequestration was allowed on insufficient 
materials, and havimr been allowed ex parte, it oucht to have beenr -^^^i^ 

• Digitized by VjOOQLC 



( 28 ) 

recalled on the motion of the defendant. I \^ould therefore set 
aside the refusal now under appea], and remit to the District Court 
to dissolve. I would give the defendants their costs of appeal. 

The plaintiff did not make out a prima facie case of fraudulent 
alienation by the defendants which entitled the plaintiflFs to seques- 
tration : something more is necessary than proof of sales ; some facts 
must be sm om to from which the Court can reasonably infer that 
the sales were not bondfid^ for fair value. Alienation is not enough, 
it must be a fraudulent alienation. 

Of fraud I find no proof. 

On the groimd suggested that a District Court, havitig once 
ex parte allowed a sequestration to issue, cannot recall it, on good 
grounds shown by the defendant, all I can say is that I do not 
assent to so novel and, I think, so dangerous and unjust a rule. 
There is as a rule no appeal against an ex parte order. The proper 
course is to apply to the Court which made the order to vacate it 
on notice to the party who holds the order, and on showing good 
grounds that the order had been made on insuflficient materials, or 
was otherwise wrong. 



SILVA V. SILVA. 
D. C. Negombo, 1,563, 



Priority of registration — Purchase at execution sale folloived by possession 
nrui subsequent FiscaVs conveyance and registration — Intertm 
private conveyance and registration, 

A mortgaged some lands to B in April, 1886, the mortgage bond 
being registered in Augast , 1 887. B having put the mortgage bond 
in suit, obtained a mortgage decree, himself purchased the landi? in 
February, 1890, at the execution sale, and entered into possession. 
He delayed obtaining the Fiscars conveyances till 1893, and they 
were registered the same year. Meanwhile A sold the lands to C 
in 1892, who registered his deed in 1892. 

In a contest between B and C as to title to the lands — 

HeJdy that C's title was superior. 

Silva V. Tissera {9 S. C. C, 92) considered and followed. 

Sinniah Chetty v. Babanis Appu (Wendt.p, 213), And GovemmerU 
Agent v, Hendrickhamy (3 C. L, R. 86), distinguished. 

THE lands which formed the subject of dispute in this case were 
mortgaged to plaintiff by one Siimappu Silva in April, 1886, 
and the mortgage bond was regist<?red in August, 1887. Under a 
mortgage decree obtained by plaintiff against his mortgagor, the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



{ 29 ) 

premlees were sold by the Fiscal in February, 1890, and were 
purchased by plaintiff, who entered into possession soon afterwards. 
But the conveyances from Fiscal were obtained only on 21st March 
and 13th May, 1893, and were registered on 22nd May, 1893. Mean- 
while, on the 12th December, 1892, the plaintiff's mortgagor sold 
the lands to the defendant, who registered his deed on the same day. 

The plaintiff, averring ouster and dispossession by defendant, 
brought this action praying for declaration of his title and eject- 
ment of defendant. Defendant denied the alleged ouster and set 
up title in himself under the deed of 12th December, 1892. 

The District Judge dismissed the plaintiff's action, holding that 
the defendant's title must prevail. 

The plaintiff appealed. 

Wendij for appellant. 

Batva, for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

17th April, 1895. Withebs, J.— 

The appea], in my opinion, is entitled to succeed. 

The case of Sinniah Chetty v. Babanis Appu {Wendt, p. 213) 
relied on by the District Judge is not in point ; there, the land was 
sold before the mortgage decree, and the creditor could not procure 
a valid judgment against the land in which the purchasers in 
possession were not joined. Here, the land was sold after the 
mortgage decree, and could be levied in execution under that 
decree without any fresh action. But the decree was followed by 
a judicial sale of the premises affected by it, and so far as regards 
these premises it was an executed decree. 

Mr. Bawa argued that the competition was between the mortgage 
decree and defendant's private conveyance, and that the circum- 
stances of the mortgage decree differentiates this case from that 
of Silva V. Tissera (9 S. C, C. 92), which the District Judge felt 
to be in point, but tried to escape from its influence. But, as 
I have just said, the decree had been executed, and the competition 
is l^etween the confirmed sale thereunder followed by possession 
and the private conveyance of the defendant. Mr. Bawa asked 
us to overlook the fact of plaintiff's possession following on the 
judicial sale, but we cannot do so, for I have no doubt of its 
occurrence. The present circumstances being then precisely 
similar to those in Silva v. Tissera, we are bound by that judg- 
ment. This case again differs from Oovemment Agent v, 
Hendrickhamy (3 C. L. R, 86), for the land there was the subject 
of a judicial sale between the mortgage decree and execution thereof. 

Set aside, and judgment for plaintiff, with costs. ^ ^ I 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 30 ) 

Browne, J. — 

Hamuddra Sinxiappu, by his mortgage bond dated 6th April, 
1886, and registered 4th April, 1887, mortgaged two lands to plain- 
tiff, who upon his bond obtained a mortgage decree, which he did 
not register. At the Fiscal's sale held in execution of his writ on 
7th February, 1890, he was declared the highest bidder, and the 
sale being confirmed by the Court he entered into possession. 

While he was so in possession, Sinnappu, on the 12th December, 
1892, conveyed the same lands to his son-in-law, defendant, who 
registered his conveyance on that date. 

On the 15th January, 1893, defendant ousted the plaintiff from 
possession, and plaintiff having obtained his transfers from the 
Fiscal on the 21st March and 13th May, 1893, which he registered 
on the 22nd May, 1893, sued on the 13th March, 1894, for decla- 
ration of his title and ejectment of defendant. 

The learned District Judge has dismissed plaintiff's claim, holding 
that in place of suing on the strength of his Fiscal's transfers, he 
should have framed his action to enforce his mortgage rights against 
the defendant, as had been held in Wendt, 213, and that not having 
done so his defeat was certain, for that the only competition here 
was between the rival conveyances, plaintiff's mortgage being 
merged in his transfer, and the registration of his mortgage not 
enuring to the advantage in priority of the conveyance (3 C, L, B. 
72), and that in such competition defendant must by priority of 
registration prevail. He admits that the decision m9 8. C. C. 92 
appears to be in point, but declines to follow it, as it was there held 
that registration had no bearing on the question at issue, but he 
cannot exclude it from consideration. 

I do not see how it was possible for the decision in Wendi, 213 j 
to be made applicable. There, the purchase from the mortgagor 
was (as I read the report, for no dates are given) anterior to the 
sale in execution under the mortgage decree, while here, the 
conveyance to defendant was two and a half years after plaintiff 
had been confirmed in his purchase, wherefrom, under section 289, 
Civil Procedure Code, he must now be regarded as having been 
vested with the legal estate so long before defendant professed 
to have acquired title from the mortgagor. An ofAio kypothecaria 
would therefore not He against defendant. 

As regards whether the Fiscal's conveyance should be held to 
relate back to the sale which Mr. Bawa contended should be 
decided in the negative, if this were a case purely voider the 
operation of Ordinance No. 4 of 1867, the decisions in 9 8. C, C. 
32 and 36 would be applicable ; but here, though the sale in 
execution to the plaintiff was held in February, 1890, before the 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 31 ) 

operation of the Civil Procedure Code, and although application 
to the Court for its confirmation was as unnecessary as we hold 
it was in 1,355, D. C, Negombo, plaintiff did, after let August, 
1890, viz., on 12th January, 1893, obtain confirmation of his 
purchase under the new procedure, and may possibly claim that 
section 389 operates in his favour. 

The contest is therefore not between plaintiff's registered bond 
and defendant's conveyance, as Mr. Bawa has urged, but between 
plaintiff's deed as of date 7th February, 1890, registered on 22nd 
May. 1893, and the conveyance to defendant, both dated and regis- 
tered the 12th December, 1892, with (superadded to the former) 
the fact of plaintiff's possession, which was not an element of 
consideration in Wendt, 213, and was in 9 8. C. C. 92. This case 
differs from 3 C, L, B. 86, in that there the purchaser under the 
mortgage decree not having obtained his conveyance on the date 
as on which the rights of parties had to be ascertained, the contest 
lay between the unregistered mortgage decree and the registered 
conveyance by the mortgagor granted thereafter. 

The decision m 9 S. C. C. 92 therefore is clearly applicable. 
The equity of the plaintiff will here, as there, prevail, and there 
is the less reason to regret this, in that the defendant has not shown 
as in such a contest, and especially in regard to his relationship 
to his vendor, that his deed was for valuable consideration. 

1 would set aside the decree and enter judgment for plaintiff 
as prayed, \*'itb costs. 



MUTTUSAMY PILLAI t;. PONNEN KANKANI. 

D. C, Kandy, 8,064, 

Practice — Conduct oj trial — Tender of evidence — Judge's refused to admit 
it — Necessity for recording refusal and reasons therefor — When 
such refusal is good ground for granting a re-hearing of case, 

A party accepting a Judge's ruling or opinion as regards the 
relevancy of evidence which he proposes to offer, without making 
any effort to produce it, takes the risk upon himself of losing the 
case for want of such evidence. 

If a Court refuses to take any evidence tendered, counsel should 
not submit to such refusal, but should either call the witnesses, 
propose the questions to be put to them, and have the reasons for 
the Judge's refused recorded, or should ask him to record that he 
would not entertain any evidence on the point in question. 

'T^HIS was an action by the payee against one of two makers of 
^ a joint and several promissory note. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



{ 32 ) 

The defendant pleaded payment and satisfaction by payment to 
the superintendent of Templestowe estate, in consideration of 
whose advances to the defendant on the security of the plaintiff 
the note in suit was made. Issue being joined, the defendant 
led evidence in support of his plea and closed his case. There- 
upon the proceedings recorded showed that plaintiff was called 
and his case closed. The District Judge upheld the plea of payment 
and dismissed plaintiff's action. _ , _ 

Plaintiff appealed. In his petition of appeal he stated the 
plaintiff's counsel " offered to prove " that the note in question 
was given for a debt due by the defendant alone, and that the 
note had no connection with the other maker's advance account 
on Templestowe, which did not commence till almost a year after 
the date of the making of the note ; and the appellant complained 
that the District Judge refused to admit such evidence on the 
ground of irrelevancy. These allegations in the petition of appeal 
were supported by an affidavit, and the District Judge admitted 
their correctness. 

DomhoTst, for appellant, argued on the merits and pressed for a 
re-hearing of the case in the Court below. 

Wendty for defendant. 

Cur, adv. twft. 

I9th March, 1895. Withers, J.— 

[After dealing with the merits of the case, said : — ] 

Mr. Domhorst invited our attention to his application for leave 
to his client to call rebutting evidence and to prove that the pay- 
ment deposed to by Allagan was for an estate matter between 
himself and the deceased Welayan, and had nothing to do with 
the note sued on, which was for a money consideration between 
himself and the defendant, and which was simply backed by the 
said Welayan as a security. 

We reserved the consideration of his application. We find our- 
selves unable to accede to Mr. Domborst's application, and so we 
afifirm the judgment according to our first intention. We do so 
for the simple reason that defendant's Proctor should not have 
submitted to the District Judge's refusal to take the evidence 
which he proposed to call on behalf of his client, the nature of 
which appears not in the record but in the affidavit, and which 
the District Judge advised himself he should not take because of 
its irrelevancy. 

The defendant or other witness should have been called, and 
the questions proposed to be put to him recorded, with reasons 
for refusing them to be put, or at least the plaintiff's Ftootor 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 33 ) 

should have asked the District Judge to record that he would not 
entertain any evidence directed to a certain point. 

A party must not take the District Judge's opinion and make 
no effort, simply on the chance of securing a judgment without 
evidence on his side, and then, if he loses, apply to tMs Covat to 
send the case back for him to take the active measures which in 
hifi own interest he should have taken at the trial below. 



Lawbib, A.C.J.— 

[After conunenting on the facts of the case, said : — ] 

The plaintiS called no witnesses to corroborate his statements 
and to contradict the evidence given by the witnesses for the 
defendant. He says he told the District Judge that he had witnesses 
in attendance to prove that the note in question was given for a 
debt due by the defendant alone in respect of transactions which 
took place on and before 21st July, 1892, and that the note had no 
connection with deceased maker's advance account on Temple- 
stowe, which did not commence until June, 1893. This evidence 
was not called by the plaintiS, he says (in an affidavit presented at 
the hearing in appeal), because the District Judge thought such 
evidence would be irrelevant. Now, if the plaintiff accepted tins 
ruling or opinion, he took the risk of the District Judge deciding 
against him. He could not split the trial in two and take his 
chance of the Judge's finding for him on the evidence before the 
Court ; and if the judgment turned out to be against him, to ask 
for a re-hearing to call witnesses whom he abstained from calling at 
the trial. 

It is different when a District Judge makes an order refusing 
to allow certain questionis to be put. Against such refusal an 
appeal is competent ; but no order was made here : the plaintiff 
acquiesced in the opinion of the Judge, and he closed his case, and 
after some days' consideration the Judge decided against him. 
In these circumstances, I am not disposed to allow a re-hearing, 
and on the evidence before me I think the judgment for the 
defendant is right* 



Vol. 1, 

Digitized 



H^mogle 



( 34 ) 

In re Application of CANAGARATNE for a Maniamua, 

Ordinance No, 7 of 1886, 8. 4 — Right of householder to water aeirviu for 

private use — DtUy of officer in charge of Waierworka to supply 

water on the premises — Application for a mandamus. 

Under the Ordinance No. 7 of 1886 the Government is bound to 

supply drinking water within the Municipality of Colombo, but not 

on the premises of a householder for his domestic use. 

Where there is a public standpipe in the neighbourhood of a house 
from which its owner is able to take water for his domestic use, 
and the officer in charge of the Waterworks is not prepared to 
recomniend to the Government that the private supply asked for 
be granted. 

Held that such householder is not entitled to a mandamus on the 
officer to compel him to provide such service. 

A/I R. H. J. C. CANAGARATNE appeared in person and moved 
-L-T-L fQY a rule on Mr. MacBride, the Director of Public Works, 
to show cause why a mandamus should not be issued on him to 
provide water service to the private residence of the applicant. 
He submitted an affidavit and also correspondence which passed 
between him and the Director and others on the subject of the 
water service he required. 

In the affidavit Mr. Canagaratne set forth that he was a resident 
of Colombo ; that he applied to the Director of Public Works for 
private service of water to house No. 121, Jampettah street, 
Colombo, where he lived, and which belonged to him ; that, not 
being favoured with an answer, he wrote to the Provincial Engineer, 
and was informed on the 23rd January last that private service 
could not be given him ; that no reason was assigned for the refusal ; 
that he personally interviewed him subsequently, when the Pro- 
vincial Engineer promised to inspect his house, which, however, he 
did not do ; that thereupon he complained to the Member of the 
Municipal CouncD for St. Paul's Ward, where the house in question 
was situate ; that the reason for the refusal was then stated to be 
that the house in question could only be classed as B 4, being a 
small house, not entitled to special connection with the main pipe ; 
that, so far as he (the applicant) knew, there was no authority for 
such a classification ; that the Director of Public Works was, he 
verily believed, the only person empowered by (Jovemment to 
allow a private service of water under Ordinance No. 7 of 1886, 
section 4 ; that several smaller houses than the applicajit's had been 
allowed private service of water ; and that he could not ascertain 
upon what principle houses Were allowed water service. 

Their Lordships (Lawbie, A.C.J., and Withers, J.) having 
heard Mr. Canagaratne, refused his application. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 35 ) 
22Eid Maioh, 1805. Lawbib, A.C. J.— 

A party applying for a markdamus must mak^ out a legal right 
and a legal oblig^^tion. Jn my opixiion the applicant has made out 
neither. He incidentally states that he resides in a house, 121, 
Jampettah street, Colombo, of which he is the owner ; but neither 
residence nor ownership give him a legal right to what he says he 
wants, viz., a private service of water. Provision was made by 
Govenmient nine or ten years ago for a good supply of water for 
the town of Colombo, and by the Ordinance 7 of 1886 it was 
provided (section 4) that the Ceylon Govenmient may, on appli- 
cation by the owner or occupier of any house, allow a private 
service of water to such house for domestic purposes, in such 
quantities and under such conditions as the Government deem 
reasonable. This seems to me to leave to Govenmient the duty of 
considering each application for a private water service supply. 
It may be that the supply from Labugama is insufficient (theie 
being only one main pipe) to allow of every house having a private 
supply ; it may be that in some parts of the town it is more diffi- 
cult to give the supply than in others. Government reserved to 
itself (or perhaps, strictly speaking, the Legislature expressly gave 
to Government) the duty of supplying the citizens with water 
under such conditions as the Government deemed reasonable. It 
did not confer on any citizen the right to have a supply of water 
for his private use. The wants of the public have first to be con- 
sidered, and the officer addressed by the applicant sajrs that he is 
not prepared to recommend that the private supply asked for be 
granted. It seems to me there is an end of the matter, unless, 
indeed, the applicant should address some higher officer of Govern- 
ment in the hope of the subordinate's ruling being reversed. He 
need not come to the Supreme Court, which is ready to issue writs 
of mandamus on all judicial officers who fail or exceed in the duties 
connected with the administration of justice, but which is slow to 
interfere in matters not judicial with which this Court can have no 
special knowledge, and which the Legislature has left to officers 
who are not judicial, over whom in the ordinary course this Court 
does not claim jurisdiction. 



WnTCBBS, J. — 

Under the Ordinance referred to, namely, No. 7 of 1886, the 
Ceylon Government is bound to supply a quantity of drinking 
water within the Municipality of Colombo ; but it is not bound to 
supply water on the premises for the domestic use of the owner 
or oocupier of the house within the Municipality. It may do so 
on his application, in such quantities and under such conditions 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 36 ) 

as the Goveniment deem reasonable. The power of allowii^ a 
private supply of water to a house so situate for domestio purposes 
has been placed in an officer called the Waterworks Engineer. No 
doubt there are cases in which a person who has a discretion to do 
or not to do something by statute has been compelled by mamdamvs 
to do what he refused to do capriciously. Bufc it is quite unnecessary 
to consider this matter from that point of view. The applicant for 
a rule against this officer admits that there is a public standpipe 
in the neighbourhood of bis house from which he is able to take 
water for the domestic use of himself and his household. This is, 
no doubt, not so convenient to him as if the water were laid into his 
house. But his ability to obtain what he requires, though perhaps 
at some considerable inconvenience, in my opinion precludes him, 
in the circumstances of this case, from applying for this specific 
remedy. For this simple reason I would refuse the application. 



UPANANDA TERUNNANSE v. DEVAMITTA UNNANSB 

AND TWO OTHERS. 

D. C, Chilaw, 15 0. 

Application for guardianship and curatorahip — Buddhist priest and pupil 

in robes. 

Where a Buddhist priest applied to be appointed guardian of his 
pupil in robes and curator of his property — 

Held, that he could not be appointed as such, as he was not his 
father, or other prox>er person to be appointed, and as it did not 
appechr that the minor was in possession of any property which 
required to be taken care of. 

THIS was an application by the petitioner, the incumbent of 
Poimankania Vihar6, for an order directing the grant to him 
of a certificate of curatorship in respect of the property of the first 
respondent, a minor. The petitioner also prayed to be appointed 
as the guardian of the minor, who was said to be the lawful pupil 
of the 'petitioner, according to Sisyanu Sisya Paramparawa, and who 
as such was being [maintained and educated by the petitioner. A 
schedule of property was filed, and the Court made the following 
order : — \ 

" Most of the property included in the schedule submitted appears 
'* to belong to the Pikkalana temple, azui is vested in the trustees 
" thereof. I am not aware that the Pikkalana temple has 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 37 ) 

-' been exempted from the operation of the Buddhist Temporalities 
" Ordinance. The incumbent priest of the temple and the trustee 
'' thereof should be made parties respondent to this application." 

They were so added, whereupon the petitioner moved for an 
order nisi under section 384 of the Civil Procedure Code. The 
District Judge refused an order nisi, holding, '' the Buddhist 
*' Temporalities Ordinance, No. 3 of 1889, is in force and cannot be 
'' ignored. Personal claims by Buddhist priests, monks, or pupils to 
" temple property (in this case the Pikkalana Pansalawatta), which 
'' is by law now vested in the trustee thereof, cannot be entertained ." 

The petitioner appealed. 

Baway for ajypellant. 

Cur. adv. vuU. 

2nd April, 1895. Lawmb, A.C.J.— 

I am of opinion that the petitioner has not shown good reason 
why a curator of the property and guardian of the person of the 
minor should be appointed, and certainly he has not shown good 
reason why he (the applicant) should be selected. 

As the minor is in robes as a pupil-priest, he must be of sufficient 
age to be able to take some interest in this application, but so far as 
appears he did not go to Court to assure the Judge of his willingness 
to have a curator appointed. 

It is I think obvious that the object in view is to bring actions. 
If the minor needs to vindicate his property and his rights in Court, 
it will be better that he should apply to the District Judge for the 
appointment of a next friend, and the Judge will then have the 
opportunity of satisfying himself whether there be a primd facie 
prospect of success before he edlows litigation in the name of the 
minor. 

In affirming the order I must add that I am at a loss to under- 
stand why the trustee of the vihar6 was made a respondent, or 
what he or the provisions of the Buddhist Temporalities Ordinance 
have to do with this application. 

The application is refused, (1) because the applicant is not the 
father of the minor, and he has not shown that he is the proper 
person to be appointed ; (2) there is no property of which the miner 
is in possession of which it is necessary that the curator should 
take care. If litigation be contemplated, the interests of the minor 
can be looked after by a next friend. 

WlTHSBS, J. — 

I OOnonr. Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



( 38 ) 

.PUNCHIRALA ei ai. v, SUDDAHAMY a al. 

D. C, Kumn4gala, 718/499. 

Reference to arbitration — Power of Court to extend time after expiry of the 
time originally fixed — Civil Procedure Code^ «. 683, 
Under section 683 of the Civil Procedure Code, a coiirt may 

enlarge the time on cause shown, when the time originally edlowed 

for the making of the award has expired. 

npHE facts of this case appear in the judgments of their Lordships 
-*• Lawbie and Bbownb. 

Bawa, for defendants appellant. 

Blaz^, for respondents. 

Cur, adv. vttU. 

1st March, 1895. Lawbie, A.C.J.— 

The order of Court referring the matters in dispute to arbitra- 
tion was dated 28th February, 1894. It required the arbitrator to 
make his award within thirty days. On the 24th March, the 
arbitrator wrote to the Court asking for an extension of time and 
desiring record of Court be sent to him, for some reason not explained . 
No notice was taken of this letter till the 2nd April, when the District 
Judge enlarged the time for filing the award till 30th April. The 
question to be decided is, Had the judge power to enlarge the time 
after the time originally fixed had elapsed ? 

The rule of English law was, that without the consent of parties 
the Court could not at common law grant any enlargement when 
the time had lapsed. The authority of the arbitrator was gone, 
and all the proceedings already taken became ineffectual {Halden 
V. Olasscocky and Teaadale v, Atkins : Russell on Arbitrators, page 
150). This was remedied in England by the passing of an Act of 
William the Fourth, and now the Arbitration Act of 1889 enacts 
that the time for making an award may from time to time be 
enlarged, by order of the Court, whether the time for making the 
award has expired or not. 

Our Code is not so explicit as the English Act of Parliament, 
but after some little hesitation I come to the conclusion that the 
683rd section permits a Court to enlarge the time on cause shown 
when the time for making the award has expired. 

This seems to me the only question of d oubt. The other objections 
to making the award the basis of the decree seem to me untenable. 
I agree with my brother that the order should be affirmed. 

Beownb, J. — 

The award of the arbitrator was filed in Court on the 27th April, 
and notice thereof was issued. The defendants could then 



( 39 ) 

(section 687, Civil Prooedure Code) have applied to set aside the 
award, or to modify and correct it, or to remit it for reconsidera- 
tion, if they advanced grounds sachas sections 691, 688, and 690 
respectively indicate as those respectively appropriate for each 
form of relief. 

Defendants petitioned that the award should be set aside, but 
did not advance any ol the grounds a, 6, or c prescribed by section 
691 as those upon which alone such a motion could have been 
granted. The order of the District Judge rejecting the petition 
should therefore be afiSrmed. 

I agree that the wording of section 683 is large enough to enable 
the Court to grant a further time to the arbitrator even after the 
expiry of the original period, when, as here, neither party had on 
the expiry called for the trial to proceed. 



ALLIE V, MOHIDEEN. 
D, C, Cohmbo, 5,454. 



Civil Procedure Code, chapter LIU. — Summary procedure on cKtian on 
promissory note and claim for money lent — Right to summons 
thereon — Leave to defendant to appear and defend — Power of Court 
to call on defendant to give security. 

The summary procedure allowed by chapter LIII. of the Civil 
IVocedure Code is applicable only to actions in which the claim is 
for money due upon certain classes of documents. 

When a plaintiff has a second cause of action as for money lent, 
he is not entitled to a summons in the form No. 19, and the plaint 
should be returned for amendment. 

If a defendant shows sufficient cause why the decree passed 
against him for default of appearance should be set aside, he is 
entitled to be cdlowed to enter into his defence, and he cannot be 
called upon to give security except for good reasons. 

THIS was an action on a promissory note alleged to have been 
made by the defendant in favour of the plaintiff. The plaint 
contained two causes of action : one upon the note itself, and the 
other for money lent in respect of the very sum which was secured 
by the note. 

The plaint was accepted and summons in the form No. 19 
allowed on the first cause of action alone, under section 703 of 
the Civil Prooedure Code. As defendant did not enter appearance jf^ 



( 40 ) 

on the returnable day, decree was entered against him. Thereafter 
his counsel moved to set aside the decree, and to be permitted 
to appear and defend the action. 

The District Judge allowed the motion on condition that 
defendant gave security for the amount claimed and filed his 
answer on or before a day named. 

The defendant appealed against that part of the order which 
required him to give security for the amount claimed fiU9 a condition 
precedent to his defending the action. 

Baiva, for appell«mt. 

Sampayo, for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vuU. 
24th January, 1895. Lawmb, A.C.J.— 

The summary procedure allowed by the 63rd chapter of the 
Code is applicable only to actions in which the claim is for money 
due on certain writings. When a plaintiff has a second cause of 
action, such as a claim for money lent, he is not entitled to a 
summons in the form No. 19. 

Here the plaintiff sued on a promissory note, but, probably 
fearful lest some technical defect might be found in the note or 
in the stamp, he added to the claim on the note a claim for money 
lent. The District Judge properly refused to give simmions as 
prayed for. He ordered summons to issue on the first prayer 
only. It would have been better had the learned Judge returned 
the plaint for amendment by the deletion of the second count, 
but although the second count still remains in the plaint the 
defendant has not been summoned to answer to it, and for the 
purposes of this appeal I think we may treat the action as laid 
only on the note. 

The defendant did not appear within the time fixed in the 
summons, and decree was entered for the amount of the note. 
After decree the defendant appeared, and the Court set aside the 
decree. The District Judge was satisfied that there existed special 
circumstances which justified him in doing so, and that there were 
such is plain from the fact that the plaintiff acquiesced and did 
not appeal, but when the Judge gave leave to the defendant to 
appear and defend, he imposed the terms that he should find 
security for payment of the whole sum claimed. The learned 
Judge gave no reason for attaching that condition. 

If a defendant shows sufficient cause why the decree should be 
set aside, he is entitled, as a matter of right, to be allowed to «nter 
into his defence, and he can be forced to give security only for 
some good reason. ^,^.,.^^^ byGoOglc 



( 41 ) 

A defendant in an action under the 53rd chapter must disclose a 
defence. If that defence be not prima facie sustainable, or if the 
Ck>urt feels reasonable doubts as to its good faith, it may impose 
the terms of payment into Court or of finding security. Possibly 
when a decree has been entered, the Court may impose terms for 
some other good reason. The discretion given in the 707th section 
may possibly be greater than that given in the 704th, but in the 
ordinary case the directions of the 704th section must apply to the 
terms which the Judge is permitted to impose when he sets aside 
a decree. By satisfying the Court that there are special circum- 
stances why the decree should be set aside, and by filing affidavits 
of a defence, the defendant put himself in the same position as he 
would have been in had he appeared in time. I see no reason why 
he should be required to find security in the former, if he would 
not have needed to find it in the latter. 

The defence here is that the defendant did not make the note. 
That is a defence prima facie sustainable. The learned Judge 
does not say that he had any reason to doubt its good faith. In 
these circumstances, I am of the opinion that the defendant has 
been unduly prejudiced by that part of the order which requires 
him to find security, and I recommend that that be deleted. 

I would give the defendant the costs of the appeal ; he did not 
appear in time in the District Court and he must bear the costs 
in the Court below. 

I agree to the addition proposed by my brother Withers. 



WiTHBBS, J. — 

I agree in the order proposed by my brother Lawrie, and am 
inclined to add a direction that .paragraphs 4 and 5 of the plaint 
be struck out, unless plaintiff elects to treat this as an ordinary 
regular action. Chapter 63 must be strictly construed, and in my 
opinion no plaintiff should be allowed to proceed under this chapter 
who joins with a claim for a debt or liquidated demand in money 
upon a bill of exchange, promissory note, cheque, instrument or 
contract in writing, or a liquidated amount of money, a claim on 
a contract which does not answer to any of the preceding kinds 
of contract. It matters not one whit to my mind that the second 
cause of action is for the same amount as that claimed under the 
first cause of action, as is the case here when the debt on the contract 
of money lent at defendant's request forms the consideration fox 
which the promissory note was given, and is the subject of plaintiff's 
alternative claim. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 42 ) 

JACOB V. VELAIDEN KANKANI. 
P. C, Kandy, 15,797. 

Ordinance No, 11 of 1865, 8. 11 — Ordinance No. 13 of 1889, s, 6, and Ordi- 
nance No. 7 of 1890, 8. 1 — Indian cooly — Quitting service unihmU 
leave or reaeonable cause — Moneys paid by superintendent to 
labourer for purposes other than wages, due or anticipated — 
Arrears of wages due. 

An estate kankani employed on a monthly contract of hire and 
service, whose wages for ten consecutive months were admitted 
to be due and impaid at the time of his qidtting service after notice 
of less than one month, is not guilty of an offence under section 
11 of Ordinance No. 11 of 1865, in the absence of proof that the 
sums of money alleged to have been advanced to him by his master 
were on account of anticipated wages. 

The value of rice and clothes supplied to a labourer in the course 
of service and for his use as a servant, and money advanced to 
him for a similar purpose by way of anticipated wages, may be 
deducted in the computation of an account of what wages, if any, 
are due and unpaid at a certain date. 

THE charge against the accused was that, being a labourer on an 
estate on a monthly contract of hire and service renewable 
from month to month, he did on the 27th March, 1893, before the 
end of his term of service, quit the complainant's service withottt 
leave or reasonable cause, or without giving a month's previous 
notice, in breach of section 11 of Ordinance No. 11 of 1866. 

The superintendent of the estate stated in his evidence that the 
accused was one of his kankanis, that he had no reasonable cause 
for quitting service, and that he was largely indebted to the estate 
when he left it, but he admitted that when the accused quitted 
his service wages for about ten consecutive months were due to 
him and his coolies. 

On appeal against a conviction, the judgment of the Court below 
was set aside and defendant acquitted. 

3rd August, 1893. Withbbs, J.— 

My interpretation of the Labour Ordinance is that, as regards 
labourers on estates employed otherwise than in domestic service, 
only advances by way of anticipated wages can be taken into 
account in computing what, if anything, is due to a labourer by 
way of wages earned by him at the date of his committing the 
offence of quitting service without leave, or reasonable cause ,or 
due notice determining the service. 

Just as the value of rice and clothes supplied to a labourer in 
the course of service and for his use as a servant, so may money, 
advanced to him for a similar purpose, be deducted in the com- 
putation of an account of what wages, if any, are due and unpaid 
at a certain date and for a certain period. ^ ^ . 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 43 ) 

Here, it is admitted that wages earned durmg ten months had 
not been paid to this accused, so that wages for a series of months 
after the expiry of the last month of the series had not been paid 
him within sixty days thereof. But it was argued that the unsettled 
advances to this accused so altered the state of accounts between 
employer and labourer that a sum was due by the latter to the 
former. It is not proved, nor is it likely, that these large sums were 
advanced to him for the purpose I have indicated, and I cannot 
see my way to support the conviction. 



SmCLAm V. RAMASAMI KANKANI. 
P. C, Hattmy 16,987. 

Ordinances No. 11 of 1866, 8. 11^ and No. 18 of 1889, as. 6 and 7— Loans to 
kankani for procuring coolies — Agreement to repay siich loans by 
toages earned — Effect of such agreement on the criminal liability 
of ihe kankani under the Labour Ordinances — Meaning of 
" advances.*^ 

Loans made to an estate kankani for procuring coolies cannot be 
debited to him in the settlement of wages due to him, as such loans 
are not '' advcuices" in the sense of the term explained in section 
12 of the Ordinance No. 13 of 1889. 

Even if there was an agreement between the labourer and his 
employer that such loans should be set off against wages due, it 
cannot have the effect of making him criminally liable under 
the Ordinance if, at the time of quitting service, the monthly wages 
earned by him shall not have been paid in full within sixty days 
from the expiration of the month during which such wages have 
been earned. 

THE facts of this case are fully stated in the judgment of the 
Supreme Court. 

Domhorst and SenevircUne, for the accused appellant. 

Van Langenberg, for respox^ent. 

Cur. adv. vuU. 
10th May, 1895. Lawbis, J.— 

The accused, a head kankani, who had a gang of coolies, took 
service under the complainant in September, 1894. It is not said 
on what estate he (the accused) and his coolies had formerly served, 
but it is clear that they owed money, and that the complainant 
advanced to the accused Rs. 1,000 to be paid to his creditors, to 
enable him to clear accoimts and to come to the estate. The 
accused gave two promissory notes for these advances of Bs. 1,000. 

After the accused and his coolies had been on the estate for 
about two months and a half, the accused got a further advance 
of Bs. 1,000 from the complainant for the purpose of procuring 
and bringing to the estate some more coolies ; the accused succeed ed 
in getting more coolies, who joined his gang. ^^^ ^^ by GoOgk 



( 44 ) 

For this advance of Rs. 1,000 the accused gave a third promissory 
note. There is evidence, which the Magistrate believed, that 
after the first advances were made, and about the time the last 
advance of Rs. 1,000 was paid, the complainant and the accused 
arranged and agreed th&t '' these loans and advances should be 
" repaid in a special way, if the complainant should so desire, viz., 
'* by accused's wages as earned being set against them as part pay- 
" ment." On the 1st January, 1895, there was a pay day on the 
estate, and the wages to the end of October were paid. I under- 
stand that the accused then received his wages in cash, and that 
the agreement that the complainant might retain them in part 
payment of the debt on the promissory notes was not taken 
advantage of by him. 

At the end of February the accused wished to leave the estate 
with all his coolies ; the complainant objected. On the 27th 
February there was a meeting with a Proctor on behalf of the 
head kankani, who made an offer to pay the Rs. 2,000, but that 
offer was rejected by the complainant. The accused then left the 
estate, but next day (28th February) he was tried in the Hatton 
Police Court for the offence of quitting service without leave or 
notice, and on the 22nd March he was found guilty and sentenced 
to three months' rigorous imprisonment. Hence this appeal. 

The 7th section of Ordinance No. 13 of 1889, as amended by 
section 2 of the Ordinance No. 7 of 1890, enacts that no labourer 

shall be liable to punishment for quitting service without 

leave or reasonable cause, if at the time of such alleged offence 
the monthly wages earned by him shall not have been paid in full 
within sixty days from the expiration of the month during which 
such wages have been earned. 

The 6th section enacts that, in computing the amount of wages 
due to a labourer for any period of service, such labourer shall 
be debited with the amount of all advances of money made to 
him, and with the value of all food, clothes, or other articles supplied 
to Kim during such period, which the employer is not liable to 
supply at his own expense. The words '' during such period " 
are material ; old advances may not be taken into consideration, 
only advances or supplies made within the period for which wages 
are claimed and the subsequent sixty days. Here the employer 
had paid Rs. 1,000 to the accused in December subsequent to the 
month of November for which the accused pleads his wages were 
not paid. Was then the advance of Rs. 1,000 in December an 
advance which can be computed in ascertaining whether wages 
were due on the 27th February ? ^.^.^.^^^ ^^ GoOgle 



( 45 ) 

In endeavouring to fix the meaning of the words " all advances 
of money " made to a labourer, I hold that an advance is different 
from a loan. It is competent to turn to the 12th section of the 
same Ordinance to see what there is meant by an advance : it there 
means '* money, food, clothes, or other articles which had been 
" advanced or supplied to the labourer aj9 against the wages for 
" which he may be suing." 

In Jacob's case (P. C, Kandy, 15,797, decided on 3id August, 
1893), my brother Withers said : — " My interpretation of the 
" Labour Ordinance is that only advances by way of anticipated 
** wages can be taken into account in computing what, if anything, 
** is due to a labourer by way of wages earned by him at the date 
** of his comLmitting the offence of quitting service without leave/'* 

This is a direct authority which I with confidence follow, but 
the complainant urges that by custom, and in this case by special 
agreement, the advance of Rs. 1,000, made in December was an 
advance to be repaid out of wages to be subsequently earned. 

Whatever was formerly the effect of the customary understanding 
that large loans made to a head kankani were to be repaid out of 
wages, and that wages could legally be retained in payment of old 
advances, I think that ctistomary understanding was corrected 
by the Ordinance I have quoted, which enacts that as a set-off 
to wages shall only be put advances made against wages, not (as 
I read the Ordinance) advances for bringing coolies and the like. 

The Magistrate rests his judgment indeed entirely on the special 
agreement which he holds was made between the complainant 
and the accused. It is not necessary to decide now what the effect 
of that agreement would be in a civil case for wages. It surely 
has no effect in a criminal case. If this kankani is not liable to 
punishment under this Ordinance, he has not made himself liable 
by this agreement criminally. 

His wages for November were not paid to him ; more than sixty 
days elapsed under the Ordinance ; he was not liable to punishment 
if he then left ; he did not render himself liable to punishment 
because he agreed with his employer that he might retain the wages 
in payment of a debt : that was an ad vantage to the employer, which 
I assume the employer might gain by, but the agreement cannot 
bring within the punitive clauses of the Labour Ordinance a man 
who is not liable to punishment if he had not made the agreement. 

I am of opinion that the accused was wrongly convicted, and 
that he is entitled to an acquittal and discharge. 



♦ Ante, p. 42 of these reporta. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 46 ) 

THE QUEEN v. FERNANDO et al. 
P. C, Nuwara Eliya, 8,729. 

Ordinance No. 10 of 1844 ss. 33 and 36 — Neglect to grant permit for 
removcU of arrack — Discretion o^ persona authorized to grant permit. 
Under sections 33 and 36 of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1S44, a 
licensed retail dealer in coraok is no more bound than the Govern- 
ment Agent is to grant a permit for the removal of arrack. They 
have a discretion to grant or withhold it according to circumstances. 
The punishroent provided in section 36 is in respect of those who 
attempt to exercise this discretion for reward or gratuity. 

THE accused in this case, being licensed retail dealers in arrack, 
were prosecuted for having neglected to grant a permit for 
the removal of arrack, in breach of section 36 of Ordinance No. 10 
of 1844. The second accused was convicted and sentenced to pay 
a fine of Rs. 50. 

On the motion of his counsel, this judgment was brought in review 
before the Supreme Court. 

Domhorsi, for appellant. 

Templer (Acting Solicitor-General), for respondent. 

Our. adv. vuU. 
2l8t February, 1895. Lawbie, A.C.J.— 

This conviction under the 36th section of the Arrack Ordinance, 
No. 10 of 1844, came before me in review at the inatance of the 
accused, who was fined Rb. 50 by the Police Magistrate of 
Nuwara Eliya. 

The parties empowered by the 33rd clause to grant permits are 
(1) the Govenmient Agent of the Province ; (2) any person duly 
authorized in wiriting under the hand of the Government Agent ; 
(3) any licensed retail dealer for removal within the limits of his 
district. 

The learned Magistrate implies that every licensed retail dealer 
is bound to grant a permit whenever his customer asks for one. 
If the Legislature had meant to make that imperative and to 
punish every retail dealer who refused to give every purchaser a 
permit, it would have been easy to have so enacted, but I do not 
find that the duty is cast more on the vendor than on the Govern- 
ment Agent or on the persons appointed by him, or on any other 
licensed retail dealer. I think it is not an imperative duty thrown 
on these three classes of people, but a discretion given to them 
to be exercised or withheld according to circumstances. The 
Ordinance however provides a punishment for those who attempt 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 47 ) 

• 

to make this diBcretion an mstrament of extortioii. If they make 
the granting of a pennit depexid on payment to them of a fee, 
gratuity, or reward, they shall be punished. 

It seems to me imx)068ible to read the 33id and 36th clauses as 
meaning that men can demand permits of removal, and that the 
man refusing is guilty of an offence merely if he refuses or neglects 
or delays to grant one. A Government Agent (and the same may 
be said of the other persons) may very reasonably say : " I know 
nothing about the applicant," or " I know him to be of doubtful 
'' character, let him go to some one who knows him better, or who 
" is willing to take a responsibility which I am unwilling to take." 
Of course the position of the Government Agent would be very 
different if he were to say to the applicant, ** My fee for granting 
" a permit is Rs. 2*50. You cannot get one from me until that 
" is paid." 

For these reasons, the conviction is set aside and the accused is 
acquitted, there being no evidence that he demanded or suggested 
the payment to him of a fee, gratuity, or reward. 



MUDIANSE KORALA v. APPUHAMY et al, 
P. C, Kigalla, 12,519. 

Civil Procedure Code, as, 542 and 543 — Prosecution for not reporting 

death^Duty of " next of kin''— Ordinance No, 18 of 1867, a, 18 — 

Ahaence of fraud. 

Where a deceased left property exceeding Rs. 1,000 and minor 
children, a prosecution for not reporting his death under section 
543 of the Civil Procedure Code does not lie against the adult 
brothers of the deceased. 

It is only when some fraud has been perpetrated that the pro- 
visions of sections 542 and 543 of the Civil Procedure Code should 
be enforced. 

The best working provision regarding the reporting of deaths is to 
be found, not in section 542 of the Code, but in Ordinance No. 18 
of 1867, section 18. 

THIS pin^rted to be a prosecution under section 543 of the 
Civil Procedure Code, it being alleged that one Punchirala 
died intestate on the 28th April, 1894, and that '' he left no widow, 
" and left property exceeding Rs. 1,000 in value ; and the above- 
*' named accused being the brothers and next of kin of the deceased, 
*' and bound as such under section 542 of the Civil Procedure Code, 
*' within one month from the date of the death of the said Punchirala, 

'' to report the cause to the District Court did wilfully 

" omit to report the said death," &c. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 48 ) 

• 

On being asked to show cause why they should not be convicted, 
it was contended on behalf of the accused i^hat, as the deceased had 
left him surviving minor children, they were his " next of kin," 
and not the accused, azui that it was not the duty of the latter to 
report the death. 

The Police Magistrate convicted the accused, and sentenced them 
to pay each a fine of Rs. 2*50. 

On appeal, Batva appeared for them. 

4th September, 1894. Lawbie, A.C.J., set aside the conviction 
and acquitted the accused, in the following judgment : — 

When the accused were asked if they had any cause to show why 
they should not be convicted, their Proctor made a statement, 
which the Police Magistrate seems to have treated as a plea of 
guilty, because he then and there convicted. It is clear to me that 
the accused did not intend to plead guilty, and did not in fact 
plead guilty. 

I would have sent the case back for trial, but that seems un- 
necessary, because I think I may tajse it to be admitted by the 
prosecution that the deceased left minor children, who are his 
next of kin. If that be so, then the brothers of the deceased are 
not his next of kin, and no duty is laid on them by section 542 
of the Civil Procedmre Code to report the death. 

The best working provision regarding the reporting of deaths 
is to be found, not in section 542 of the Code, but in Ordinance 
No. 18 of 1867, section 18. By this Ordinance the duty of reporting 
a death is laid on the nearest male relation present at the death or 
attending the last illness, and in case none such be present, then the 
occupier of the house or some inmate of the house, &c. The 
person failing to report shall, by section 20, be liable to a fine not 
exceeding £5. 

It is, I think, only when some fraud has been perpetrated with 
regard to an estate worth more than Rs. 1,000 that the provisions 
of sections 542 and 543 of the Code should be put in force. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 49 ) 

ANNAMALAT CHETTY v. GUNERATNE. 
D. C, Negombo, 751. 

Civil Procedure Code, s. 219 — Order of Court upon judgmerU'debtor for 
aUendance and examination — Disobedience of order — Liability of 
debtor to be punished for contempt of Court under chapter XV IT, 
of Code. 

Disobedience by a judgment-debtor of an order made under 
section 219 of the Civil Procedure Code to attend coust for 
examination is not punishable as a contempt of Court imder 
chapter XVII. of the Code. 

n^HE defendant in this action, having received notice of an 
-^ order made by the District Court of Negombo under section 
219 of the Civil Procedure Code, requiring his attendance on a 
certain day for the purpose of being examined touching his means 
of satisfying the decree entered against him in the case, failed to 
comply with that order, and the plaintiff's Proctor moved that the 
Court do deal with him for contempt of Court under sections 137 
and 141 of the Code. 

The Court allowed summons against him, and on appearing he 
was called upon to show cause why he should not be punished for 
contempt of Court in that he failed to comply with its order requiring 
his attendance on a certain date. The defendant pleaded sudden 
illness which overtook him on his way to the Court and prevented 
his attendance. 

The District Judge disbelieved this excuse, and found the 
defendant guilty of contempt of Court. 

The defendant appealed. 

Domhorst, for appellant. 

31st January, 1895. Withers, J. — 

We are of opinion that this order cannot be supported. 

In the first place, we are of opinion that an order under section 
219 of the Civil Procedure Code cannot be made to relate back to 
the provisions under chapter 17. So far as this matter is concerned, 
chapter 17 refers to the attendance of witnesses and parties 
summoned to attend and give evidence in the cause. By the time 
we reach section 219 the cause is over, but, to assist in the execution 
of a judgment, a debtor may be ordered to appear and disclose any 
debts owing to him which may be reached in execution. 

Now, it is noticeable that there is no provision in the Civil Pro- 
cedure Code for punishing a judgment-debtor who does not appear 
in obedience to an order under section 219. Similar cases have 
been expressly provided for in other parts of the Code. Take for 
instance section 663, section 717, section 718, where disobedience 

Vol. I. Digitizdb2(54)29 gle 



( 50 ) 

of an inj unction or a certain decree or order of the kind mentioned in 
those sections may be enforced by the punishment of the offender as 
for a contempt of Court. The civil CJourt's jurisdiction to deal with 
offences of contempt is limited to the provisions of section 59 of the 
Courts Ordinance, No. 1 of 1889, and to special provisions in the 
Civil Procedure Code. Section 69 enacts that a District Court 
may take cognizance of offences of contempt of Court committed 
in the presence of the Court itself, and of all offences which are com- 
mitted in the course of any act or proceeding in the said Court, 
and which are declared by any law for the time being in force to 
be punishable as contempts of Court. 

Now, as we observed before, disobedience of an order by a judg- 
ment-debtor of this kind is not made punishable as a contempt of 
Court. If an offence has been committed, recourse must be had 
to the Penal Code, assuming the judgment-debtor's conduct to 
be contrary to the penal provisions of that Code. The appeal 
succeeds. The conviction is set aside, and the accused is acquitted. 

Bbownb, J. — 

I agree, and wish to add, as a suggestion for consideration in 
future cases, whether the provisions of section 219 should be enforced 
in the first instance, as was done here, before issue of writ, without 
special grounds being made for the Court to allow it ; for if the writ 
were presented, the debtor might pay it, and there would be no 
need for the time of the Court to be occupied in the inquiry and 
the debtor to be put to the expense of attending. As District Judge, 
I required in a like case (3,934, D. C, Colombo) that plaintiff 
should make inquiry of the debtor living in Nuwara Eliya of what 
property he was possessed, ere he should be allowed to put the 
defendant to the cost of attendance. 

Lawbeb, A.C.J. — 
I concur. 



Digitized byVoOOQlC 



( 51 ) 

MEIDEEN V, BANDA ei ai. 
WALATAPPA CHETTY, Claimant. 

D. C, Kurunigala, 792, 

Civil Procedure Code, s. 18 — Applicaiion to he made added party — 
Diversity of interest between plaintiff and applicant — Interpleader 
— DiOy oj Colonial Courts to follow decisions of Court of Appeal 
on Imperial Statutes, where such Statutes are identical with Colonial 
Statutes. 

Section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code corresponds with the 
language of Rule 11, Order XVT., of the Supreme Court of England, 
and in the interpretation of that section effect naust he given to 
the principle that, wherever a Court can see in the transactions 
brought before it that the rights of some of the parties may or will 
be probably affected, so that under the former system of law there 
might have been several actions brought in respect of the same 
transaction* the Court shall have power to bring all the parties 
before it and determine all their rights by one trial, in order that 
the cost of litigation may be diminished as much as possible. 

If the interest of the person applying to be added party is adverse 
to and independent of the plaintiff's, the defendants might inter- 
plead and retire, leaving the deposit to be contested between the 
two rival claimants, or the applicant should be added a defendant, 
if added at all, and should put in a defence and coiuiter-claim to 
the sum in deposit. 

When the provisions of a Colonial Statuteare identical with those 
of an English Statute, the Colonial Courts should follow the decisions 
of the Court of Appeal on the Imperial Statute. 

TN this case the plaintiff sued the defendants to recover the sum 
-*- of Rs. 456, said to be due by them upon their mortgage bond 
executed in favour of one Pakir Meideen, who by deed had assigned 
all his interest therein to the plaintiff. 

Summons having been duly served on the defendants, the first 
and third defendants appeared, and produced to the Court a receipt 
for Rs. 120 purporting to be under the hands of Pakir Meideen, the 
obligee, and admitted their indebtedness as regards the balance. 

On the same day, one Walatappa Chetty appeared and claimed the 
whole of the amount due on the mortgage bond sued upon, by 
right of purchase at a Fiscars sale held in execution of a writ sued 
out against Pakir Meideen and another person, whereat the Fiscal 
sold all the right, title, and interest of Pakir Meideen in and to the 
said bond. The claimant prayed that his claim may be inquired 
into, that the deed of assignment upon which plaintiff rested his 
case may be declared null and void, and that the claimant may be 
held entitled to the amount payable on the mortgage bond. Filing 
this application supported by an af&davit, the applicant moved to 
be added as party plaintiff. 

The District Judge postponed judgment as regards the first and 
third defendants to a day on which he desired the case to be 

Digitized by 



fee^ogle 



( 62 ) 

for ex parte trial as against the absent defendants, and he allowed 
applicant's motion also to stand over for that day with notice to 
plaintiff. On the 24th April, 1894, the District Judge entered 
decree nisi against all the defendants in favour of plaintiff for the 
amount claimed less Rs. 120, by consent against the first and third 
defendants and by default against the second and fourth defendants. 
The applicant's motion to be made added plaintiff was disposed 
of when plaintiff moved (on the 4th June) that the decree nisi 
already entered be made absolute. The District Judge's order 
was as follows : — " After reading the application and affidavit of 
" Walatappa Chetty, I refuse to make the decree nisi absolute. I 
" am of opinion that the presence of Walatappa Chetty before the 
** Court is necessary, in order that all the questions in the action 
" may be completely and effectually settled. I direct, therefore, 
" under the 18th section of the Civil Procedure Code, that the name 
** of Walatappa Chetty be added €ts plaintiff." 

On appeal against this order — 

Sampayo, for plaintiff appellant. 
Domhorsty for applicant respondent. 

Cur. adv, vtUi. 

On the Slst January, 1895, the Supreme Court varied the order 
of the Court below, by allowing Walatappa Chetty to be added as 
a party defendant in the action. 

Withers, J. — 

In this action four persons are sued for a debt under a bond 
which has been assigned to the plaintiff by the obligee. 

On the 8th of March, 1894, the day fixed in the summons for 
appearance and answer, the first and third defendants appeared 
and admitted their indebtedness under the bond in all but a sum 
of Rs. 120, which they said they had paid, and which plaintiff 
acknowledged he had received. 

Notwithstanding service of summons, neither the second nor 
the fourth defendants appeared. 

On that day, one Walatappa Chetty applied to the Court for an 
order to be added as party plaintiff in this action, on the ground 
that the boii^ debt of the defendants to the original obligee, one 
S. P. Pakir Mdjdeen, had been duly assigned to him by the Fiscal 
after sale thereof in execution of a judgment against the said 
S. P. Pakir Meideen. The District Judge directed the applicant's 
Proctor to give the plaintiff notice of his claim and postponed 
adjudication in the caae and in the matter of the application for 
one month, within which time the two defendants( 



( 63 ) 

appeared undertook to deposit in Court the balance of what was due 
by them under the assigned bond. The journal entries show that, on 
the 9th of April following, none of the parties nor the applicant was 
present in person or by Proctor except the plaintiff, who was 
present by his Proctor. 

Proceedings were adjourned to the 24th of April, on which day 
there was an ex parte trial of the action as against the second and 
fourth defendants. At the conclusion of the trial, a decree nisi 
was entered for the plaintiff against these parties. Notice of this 
decree was issued, returnable the 21st of May. 

On that day, according to the minutes, the second and fourth 
defendants failed to appear to show cause against the decree nisi 
being made absolute. On that day, too, the plaintiff and the 
applicant were present by their respective Proctors, and according 
to the minutes it would appear that the applicant had caused notice 
of his application to be served not only on the plaintiff as directed, 
but also, and very properly, on the four defendants in this action, 
and further on the parties, including the said S. P. Pakir Meideen, 
against whom he had obtained the judgment in execution of which 
the bond debt had been seized and sold and purchased by the 
applicant. 

The case was not taken up that day, but adjourned to the 4th 
June following. 

In the meantime, on the 29th of May, the applicant, with the 
consent of plaintiff's Proctor, moved to file an additional list of 
documents and witnesses, and this motion was allowed. 

On the 4th of June, plaintiff's Proctor moved the Court to make 
the decree nisi against the second and fourth defendants absolute, 
and besides doing that, this Proctor, without any distinct motion 
addressed to the subject, contended ** that the applicant had no 
*^ locus standi as regards this action in its present stage.'' 

Thereupon the District Judge made the order appealed from, 
and it runs as follows : — 

" After reading the application and affidavit of Walatappa 
" Chetty, I refuse to make the decree nisi absolute. I am of 
** opinion that the presence of Walatappa Chetty before the Court 
" is necessary, in order that all the questions in the action may be 
" completely and effectually settled. I direct, therefore, ^i^*--'- the 
" 18th section of the Civil Procedure Code, that the na^nie of Wala- 
" tappa Chetty be added as plaintiff." 

Such are the facts of the case, and the question ;f^or us to decide 
is, whether the appUcant should be added a^^ a party under 
the 18th section of our Civil Procedure Coide. As it cannot 
be urged for a moment that the name of ; the applicant ought 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 64 ) 

to have been oiiginally joined as plaintiff or defendant, the only 
question is, — ^Is the applicant one whose presence is necessary in 
order to enable the Court effectually and completely to adjudicate 
upon and settle iJl the questions involved in the action ? 

Now, the language of the 18th section of our Civil Procedure 
Code corresponds with the language of Rule 11, Order XVI., 
of the Supreme Court of England, and this being so, I take it that 
on principle we are Bound to follow the decisions of the High Court 
of Appeal on questions arising out of the rules of the Supreme 
Court in England, conformably to the judgment of my Lords of 
the Privy Council in the case of Trimble v. Hilly reported in 49 
L. J., Privy Council, p. 49, The head-note of it is : " Where 
*' the provisions of a Colonial Statute are identical with those 
''of an English Statute, the Colonial Courts should follow the 
*' decisions of the Court of Appeal on the Imperial Statute." I 
therefore propose to take for my guidance in this matter the intro- 
ductory part of the judgment of my Lord Esher, M.R., in the case 
of Byrne v. Brown, reported in 58 L, J., Queen's Bench, p. 411. 
His lordship observes : — 

'' It seems to me to be the fundamental priaciple and one of the 
** chief objects of the Judicature Acts that, wherever a Court can 
•* see in the transaction brought before it that the rights of some 
'* of the parties may, or probably will, be affected, so that under the 
'' former system of law there might have been several actions 
** brought in respect of the same transation, the Court shall have 
" power to bring all the parties before it and determine all their 
** rights by one trial. 

" The evidence on the issues raised by new parties being brought 
** in need not be exactly the same. It will be enough if the main 
" part of the evidence or of the inquiry will be the same, and the 
** Court has power to bring all the parties before it and to determine 
" the matter in one action. 

** Another great principle of the Judicature Acts was to diminish, 
*'if possible, the cost of litigation. The Court ought, therefore, 
" to construe these Acts as largely as it can, in order to carry 
** out, as far as possible, those objects to which I have referred." 

Applying these principles to this case, can it be said that thi 
casf. iA tb^ched by them ? 

It is cleai\ that the plaintiff and the applicant have no community 
of interest, and that there can be no trial as to what share in the 
chose of acbiot) each is entitled to. Their claims are adverse and 
independent of each other : one claims as the assignee of Meideen 
vdens, the other as an assign in law of Meideen invitus. 
I assume that this is a case where the defendants might have 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 55 ) 

interpleaded and retired from the field, leaving their deposit to be 
contested between the two rival claimants. 

The defendants, however, have not taken this course, and they 
have raised no objections to the intervention of Walatappa. 

I can find no precedent of a case in the English Courts where 
a person who might have been brought into Court on an inter- 
pleader has been added as a party at his own instance. 

In a note at page 416 of O'Kinealy on the Indian Civil Procedure 
Code (Sid edition), it is said, " When a suit has been brought 
*• against a person before instituting the interpleader suit, he 
" should endeavoanr to have the other claimants made parties under 
" action 32 " [which corresponds to the section of our Code now in 
question], " so as to have the whole question disposed of in the one 
" suit." The author, as far as I can discover, cites no authority in 
support of this proposition ; on the contrary, he refers to certain 
Indian cases which in his eyes appear to militate against it. 

Reverting, however, to the principles laid down by the Master 
of the Rolls, it seems to me that the main part of the inquiry into 
defendant's obligation will be whether Meideen had any interest 
in this chose of action at the time he purported to assign it to the 
plaintiff, or had power then to dispose of it. If he had, plaintifi 
will be entitled to judgment. If he had not, and if the applicant 
had duly enquired it at a judicial auction, the latter will be entitled 
to the deposit. 

The cause of action, viz., defendants' indebtedness on the bond, 
is common to both plaintiff and the applicant, and the question 
at issue will be. Who has the better title to recover this debt ? 
The judgment will bind them once and for all. 

The order cannot of course stand as it is. The numerous cases 
cited at page 366 of the Annual Practice, 1894, go to show that if a 
person not a party seeks to intervene under Rule 11, Order XVI., 
he should apply to be made a defendant, and state the relief which 
he seeks. The applicant here should be added as a defendant, if 
added at all, and should put in a defence and a counter-claim to 
the sum in deposit. 

I have been much exercised by this question, but the conclusion 
I come to is that the applicant, Walatappa, should be allowed to 
be added as a party defendant in this action, and I would so decree. 

Browne, J. — 

When first and third defendants were served 'with the summons 
in this action they appeared and produced a receipt to them by 
plaintiff for a part payment of Rs. 120 which plaintiff admitted, 
and, says the record, " admit that they owe the balance ?^^"^f\Q|p 



( 56 ) 

bond, but a Chetty has told them not to pay plaintiff." The next 
moment thereafter Mr. Modder filed a proxy of Walatappa Chetty, 
and applied that his client be added as party plaintiff. He filed 
affidavit of Walatappa having acquired the original obligee's right, 
title, and interest by purchase, and declined to admit the receipt 
produced. The defendants present undertook to deposit the 
balance which the Court officer should compute to be due. 

It does not appear that this computation was ever made, or that 
these defendants were ever required to deposit any sum. 

Had defendants been the party applying for an order to join 
the applicant as an added party, it would have been necessary that 
the deposit should have been made forthwith ere the matter 
proceeded further ; but as the application was by the would-be 
addidd party, the order had not to be enforced unless the application 
were ultimately allowed, which, pending the result of this appeal, 
has not yet occurred. All that has since been done has been to 
enter a decree nisi against the other defendants and to discuss 
Walatappa's application on notice to the plaintiff. After such 
discussion the learned District Judge made order allowing it, and 
plaintiff has appealed. 

I agree in the view of my brother Withers, and for the reasons 
given by him, that the order of the learned District Judge should 
be affirmed as directed by him. I would, however, have suggested 
that in view of the special provision made in the second paragraph 
of section 18 of our Code, Walatappa Chetty should be designated 
'' added party " only, without its being stated that he is added 
as a plaintiff or defendant. This provision is not to be found in 
section 32 of the Indian Civil Procedure Code, or in Order XVI., 
Rule 11, of the Judicature Rules of 1883. In effect it would keep 
this new party in the suit always and entirely distinguished from the 
original parties so as to avoid confusion of him with either or any of 
them or their rights or claims. As, however, the rest of the Court 
affirm the order in this respect I will not dissent therefrom, so 
that the practice may be settled. 

In both the Indian and our own Code, the provisions and subjects 
of section 18 (Indian, 32) were kept in view when permitting 
interpleader procedure by section 628 (Indian, 470), when it was 
there provided that, if any action is pending in which the rights 
of all parties can properly be decided, an interpleader action should 
not be instituted, and I presume it is this proviso which is the 
authority for O'Kinealy's dictum quoted by my brother Withers, 
Of ooibrse, as the writer is careful by reference to certain decisions 
to remihd his reader, there is no provision in the Indian (nor the 
Ceylon) CJpde similar to that in the Judicature Rules (1883), 

\^ Digitized by Google 



( 57 ) 

Order XVI., Rule 48, whereby a defendant may obtain leave to have 
joined one against whom he claims to be entitled to contribution 
or indemnity — ^the rule whereunder were made the orders in the 
Swansea Shipping Company's ca^e (1 L.R., Q.B, 644) and Bower 
V. Hartley (ib. 652) cited by Mr. Dornhorst in argument. Once 
the applicant notified to them his claim, thereitfter promptly 
appeared in Court and repeated it there, the position of affairs more 
closely resembled that in Reading v. School Board for London 
(16 L.R,, Q.B, 686), where defendants, with notice of assignment 
to claimant by plaintifi of the moneys due him by them, moved 
and were allowed to interplead on payment of their debt, and issue 
was framed to determine the rights of the plaintiff and claimant. 

It is to me clear that were it not for this procedure the defendant 
would be exposed to two actions on the bond, and that, if judgment 
went against him in both, he might either be danmified thereby 
by having to satisfy the double decree, or might possibly be driven 
to bring a third action if such a course were open to him. It is 
unreasonable to require him in two separate actions to plead the 
right or claim of the plaintiff in each suit to his trouble and costs, 
when by lodgment of his admitted debt in Court he stands absolved 
from all litigation. 

Lawrie, A.C.J. — 

In this point of practice I wish to agree with the rest of the 
Court, but I cannot refrain from saying that I have difficulty in 
seeing what right Walatappa Chetty has to interfere in this action. 

Having, as he alleges, a complete and preferable right as creditor 
in this bond, he can bring action on it whenever he likes. He has 
not yet done so. The plaintiff (who also alleges a complete and 
preferable right) was more prompt ; he lost no time in bringing 
action against the debtors ; these debtors have not contested the 
plaintiff's right nor their Habihty to him ; indeed they paid part of 
the debt before action. Between the parties to this action there is 
no contest ; no question has to be tried. 

I doubt whether there are here the conditions required by Lord 
Esher, for in this action there would be no evidence and no inquiry 
if Walatappa Chetty's application be refused. If Walatappa 
Chetty be added as defendant, there must be new pleadings. What 
cause of action the plaintiff can allege against Walatappa I do not 
know. 

I would prefer to leave the parties to bring their actions in h^^^^ 
own way ; the defendants seem to be willing that the plaintiff p^^^^^I"^ 
get judgment against them ; why should the Court interfer/^ ^ ^®*P 
Walatappa Chetty, who has abstained from bringing an ^action, or 
to help the defendants, who have not asked for help ? 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 68 ) 

MACK V, TAMBI LEBBE ei al. 
P. C, BaUicaloa, 10,106. 

Petroleum Ordinance, No. 6 of 1887, 88. 14, 20, and 37 — Possessing or 
keeping petroleum — Proof of existence of a place licensed for storage 
of petroleum — Burden of proof as to exceptions. 

A plaint allegiiig that the defendants possessed in their premiseB 
petroleum exceeding 50 gedlons, contrary to section 14 of the 
Ordinance No. 6 of 1887» and thus became punishable under 
section 20, is not so bad as to make it wholly defective. 

*' Possessing " connotes " keeping." 

The onus being on the accused to justify his keeping, it is not 
necessary under section 37 for a prosecutor to specify or negative 
in his plaint, or prove, any exception or exemption which does or 
does not accompany the description of offence. 

In view of the rule made by the Governor in Council, that all 
petroleum landed in the Island should be carried at once to premises 
in respect of which a license has been granted, it is the duty of a 
person who desires to keep more than the permitted quantity, to 
provide himself with licensed premises, and it is not incumbent on 
the prosecutor to allege or i>rove the existence of a plsu^e which the 
Government can license for the storage of petroleum. 

npHE facts of the case appear in the judgment of the Supreme 
^ Court. 

On appeal against a conviction, Dornkorst appeared for the 
eiccused appellant. 

Dias, Crown Counsel, for complainant respondent. 

2l8t February, 1895. Withers, J. — 

The defendants on the 22nd day of December last were jointly 
charged, in a complaint laid before the Magistrate by a " local 
authority," in the sense of the term used in Ordinance No. 6 of 
1887, as follows :— 

" That the defendants did on the 17th day of December, 1894, 
** at Chapel street, Batticaloa, within the jurisdiction of this Court, 
** possess in their premises a quantity of petroleum, to wit, kerosine 
** oil, exceeding 60 gallons, contrary to the provisions of the Ordi- 
" nance No. 6 of 1887, clause 14, and thus became punishable under 
" section 20 of the said Ordinance." 

The defendants were accordingly summoned to appear and 
ansW^er this charge. 

On* the 29th of December last the defendants appeared before 
the Magistrate, who recwl and explained to the parties charged the 
particulars of the plaint. Thereupon the defendants admitted 
that they had more than 60 gallons of oil in store. They were 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 69 ) 

accordingly sentenced to pay a nominal fine of 50 cents, the reasoi^ 
for their being dealt with so lightly being given in a judgment in a 
similar case tried and determined the same day. 

Prom this sentence they appealed. 

It was urged by Mr. Domhorst that the appeal was taken on 
a point of law, the point being that the complaint contained no 
charge of any statutable or common law offence, and that a plea 
of guilty to an innocent act was no plea at all. The argument for 
the appellants was partly technical and partly meritorious — 
technical, in that " possessing '* petroleum is no offence, but only 
'* keeping " it, under the 14th section of the Code, and that it was 
not alleged that the prohibited quantity of petroleum was possessed 
without a license or in contravention of a license. 

The next serious contention was that, before the appellants could 
be prosecuted under the 14th section of the Ordinance, it should 
be allied and proved that there existed a place which the Govern- 
ment could license for the storage of petroleum, and he mentioned 
other conditions precedent indicated in the Ordinance, which it was 
for the prosecution to allege and prove, before the defendants could 
be called on to plead to the charge of the offence of keeping more 
than 60 gallons of petroleum without a license, or in breach of the 
terms of a license. 

As to the technical point, I cannot rule that the defendants 
were prejudiced in any way by the language used in the plaint* 
Though " kept " would be a more apt word than ** possess," and 
would be the proper word to use, because it is the very word used 
in the section in question, I cannot say that it is so bad as to make 
the plaint wholly defective. The framers of the Ordinance laxly 
used the word " possess " for the word ** keep " in the very next 
section, the 16th, and it may be fairly argued therefrom that one 
word connotes the other. 

Then the 37th section wiacts that the exception, &c., though 
accompanying the description of the offence, need not be specified 
in the plaint, or proved if specified in it. The onus is laid from 
the first on the accused to justify his keeping at a certain place 
more than the permitted quantity of petroleum. 

On the more serious point taken, I am also against Mr. 
Domhorst. 

In the Oovemment Gazette of the 4th March, 1887, the Governor 
in Council caused it to be proclaimed that this Ordinance was 
to come in force throughout the Colony from and after the 1st of 
July, 1887. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( eo ) 

In the Oovemment OazeUe of the 9th August, 1887, certain 
rules were proclaimed by the Governor in Council (designated 
Petroleum Rules) to be observed throughout the Island, including 
the rule that *' all petroleum landed in the Island should be carried 

' ' at once to to or to premises in respect 

*' of which a Ucense for the possession of petroleum has been 
** granted. 

If a person wishes to keep more than the permitted quantity of 
petroleum for trade, it seems to me clear that he must take care 
to keep it in premises sufficiently safe for the purpose. He must 
put a place up for himself such as will satisfy the authority under 
the Ordinance who is competent to grant him a license for the 
keeping of more than 60 gallons of petroleum at a time. If he 
hsrS no such premises, or neglects to put up such premises, he keeps 
the prohibited quantity at his risk. 

The Ordinance expressly enacts in section 14 that no quantity 
of petroleum exceeding 50 gallons shall be kept by any one person 
(here the defendants are trading jointly as one person) or on the 
same premises (as here), except under a license from the local 
authority. 

If no person has been appointed to issue licenses (see definition 
" local authority '*) the Government should be asked to appoint one. 

The 20th section enacts that any person who in contravention 
of this Ordinance or of any rules made hereunder possesses petroleum 

shall be punished with imprisonment, simple or 

rigorous, or a fine within certain limits. 

It is therefore an offence to contravene the Ordinance. The 
defendants in fact admit they have contravened the Ordinance. 
They were properly sentenced. The judgment is right. 

It need hardly be said that Government would not demand a 
storage fee for petroleum kept by a person on his own premises. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 61 ) 

ARUMUKHAM el al, v, THE BRITISH INDIA STEAM 
NAVIGATION COMPANY. 

Re 88. Chanda. 

Shipping — Sailing rtdes — Collision between steamer and sailing vessel — 
Fatdt of sailing vessel — Damages, 

A schooner sailing in a direction of north-west by west sighted a 
white light on the port bow, which she mistook for the light of the 
Tuticorin lighthouse, and she made toweu*ds it. A few minutes 
afterward, noticing a red light, she concluded that a steamer weks 
ahead, and put up a white light, porting her helm at the same time, 
which necessarily brought her across the course of the steamer. 

The white light exhibited in the sailing vessel was observed in the 
steamer for a second or two and disappeared. The steamer held 
her course believing that the sailing vessel was pursuing a course 
parallel to hers, and that she would keep on in that course. In a 
few minutes the vessels collided and the schooner sank. 

Held, that the schooner was materially in fault, and that if the 
steamer had left it to the last moment to take the proper measures 
for getting out of the way of the schooner, and had not acted with 
all the promptness which might have been expected under the 
circumstances, she too would have been in fault and liable to pay 
one-half of the damages caused. 

But as the schooner did not carry the red and the green lights on 
her port and starboard sides, but held up a white light with as little 
]]rominence as possible, so that the steamer could not ascertain 
expeditiously what course the sailing vessel was taking, nor could 
get out of her course in due time, no fault could be attributed to the 
steamer upon which she can be made answerable for even half the 
damages sued for. 

npHIS action was raised before the Vice-Admiralty Court of 
-*■ the Island by the owners of a schooner called Arumukham 
Sundaram for the purpose of recovering compensation from the 
British India Steam Navigation Company, as owners of the ss. 
Chanda, for the loss of the schooner aforesaid, through being sunk 
after collision with the steamer, in consequence, it was alleged, of 
the negligence of the latter. 

At the trial Samuel Gr enter appeared for plaintiffs. 

James van Langenberg (with him R, Morgan) y for the defendants. 

After evidence heard, the learned Judge, Sir John Budd Phear, 
reserved judgment. 

On 15th October, 1878, he delivered judgment as follows :— 

Notwithstanding the difficulty which was experienced at the 
trial on Saturday in effecting satisfactory translations of the 
evidence of the witnesses, I still think that the principal facts of 
the case are very clearly made out — much more so, indeed, than 
is usually the case in suits of this character. The foundation ^OqIc 



( 62 ) 

the suit itself — namely, the collision between the two vessels and 
the loss of the Arumuhham Sundaram — ^is beyond all dispute, 
and both sides pretty well agree in their account of the material 
facts of the occurrence. According to Abbas, the chief witness 
ior the plaintiffs, those on board the schooner, about an hour after 
changing watch at midnight, sighted a white light about two miles 
right ahead of them. At first they took it to be the light of the 
Tuticorin lighthouse, and under this impression for a time they 
made towards it. When first discovered it was seen on the port 
bow. Five or six minutes afterward a red light was seen, and 
the witness immediately concluded that there was a steamer 
ahead. Then, according to his account, the course of the steamer 
was slightly altered by porting the helm. The red light continued 
to be seen on the port side until the collision took place. As soon 
as (four or five minutes after seeing the red light) Abbas perceived 
that there would be a collision, he called out again. The steamer 
struck the schooner nearly stem on, just abaft the main rigging. 
This witness (as well as all the others) says that as soon as the red 
light of the steamer was seen, the schooner put up a white light 
on the forestay. He also says that he never saw the hull of the 
steamer until he had perceived the red light . According to Cunjee 
Ahamadu Pulle, the man who was at that time at the wheel of the 
schooner, it was a quarter of an hour after Abbas first called out 
that he saw any hght at all. This was a white light on the schooner's 
port bow. About ten minutes afterward he saw a red light in 
addition to the white light on the port bow. The light remained 
the whole time on the port bow, only it kept coming closer and 
closer. Next he saw the hull of the steamer. This was about ten 
minutes after he first perceived the red light, and then, he said, 
he ported his helm with the effect of changing the course of the 
schooner about two points, bringing her into a course heading 
north-west. At that time the steamer was, by his reckoning, 
about 150 fathoms off, and the collision almost immediately after- 
wards took place. 

Now, if this account be accepted, the course of the schooner 
may be thus summarized. She was first sailing in a direction of 
north-west by west, but on the appearance of the white light, it 
being mistaken for a fixed light on shore, she made for it, perhaps 
without noticing the compass, and on the natural assumption 
that no change was made in the actual course of the schooner. 
Nevertheless, as the light she aimed at was moving instead of 
being fixed, the course the steamer was steering naturally changed 
with it. The witnesses, however, may be quite honest when they 
say that the schooner did not change her course. When/they^^sMr^ 

Digitized by VjOOQ 16 



( 63 ) 

the red light they were certainly within the red quadrant of the 
steamer. Whether the red light was seen in fact on the port bow 
first or on the starboard bow first is comparatively immateria 
nnder these circumstances, because by the witnesses' own account 
the schooner was at that time making as straight as she could for 
the steamer, and therefore the angle could not have been very 
great one way or the other which the direction of the schooner's 
course was making with that of the steamer. And then the schooner 
ported her helm, which necessarily, €ts indeed it was intended to do, 
brought her across the course of the steamer ; and at this point it is 
important to bear in mind that by the account of plaintiffs' witnesses 
the white light was put up. 

If we now turn to the evidence which Mr. Emery gives of the 
iXKSurrence, we find him saying that he first saw the vessel under 
sail about two points on the starboard bow, apparently then about 
a mile from the steamer. But there was no light. He watched the 
schooner for two or three minutes from the middle of the starboard 
side of the bridge, and observed that it did not sensibly change its 
position. While he was so observing it, a white light was exhibited 
by the schooner, which after a second or two disappeared, and 
with it the schooner also. Mr. Emery tried to make out the schooner, 
notwithstanding that the light was gone, with the aid of binoculars, 
but could not detect it. He was not near enough to see her actual 
course, and he inferred that it must have been approximately 
parallel with that of the steamer. As a matter of fact, it has been 
seen that, if the schooner's own account of the matter be taken, 
she was then making straight for the steamer, and so Mr. Emery 
was not far wrong in the inference which he drew. He assumed 
that the vessel, whatever she was; and whatever her course might 
be, would keep on in the course which she then was upon ; and this 
he had a right to do, because the schooner was bound by law, 
with a certain exception that I may possibly presently allude to, 
to keep the course she was on, and to leave it to the steamer to get 
out of her way. For this purpose Mr. Emery starboarded his helm, 
and this also undoubtedly he had a perfect right to do, provided 
he succeeded in that way in avoiding the schooner. But unluckily 
the assumption of Mr. Emery was falsified by two circumstances. 
The first was that the inference, that the schooner was pursuing a 
certain definite course not remote from parallelism with his own 
was ill-founded. She was pursuing a varying course — a course 
varying with his own position, but such in effect as rendered her 
relatively fixed for the few moments he was observing her, and 
therefore justifying his inference. The second circumstance -i» 



Digitized by 



Google 



( 64 ) 

that at the time Mr. Emery was drawing this inference and acting- 
upon it, the schooner changed her course designedly by porting^ 
her hehn and going across his bows. Just after this time the 
light re-appeared again, and then it was almost immediately under 
the steamer's bows. He ported his helm — ^the best thing probably 
he could do — but it was too late to avoid the collision that 
immediately ensued. The manoeuvre probably had the effect, 
however, of putting the colliding point further aft than it would 
otherwise have been. 

In the view which I have thus taken of the facts — ^a view in 
regard to which I have no hesitation at all upon the evidence before 
me — ^it is plain that the schooner was materially in fault in this 
matter, and that therefore it follows that at best she could only 
recover from the steamer one-half of the damage caused. 

But I further think upon these facts that the steamer was not 
in fault. In the case of the Vdasqtiez, which is reported in the 
Law Reports, 1 Privy Council 494, a question of this kind, almost 
precisely the same in its circumstances as the question arising in 
the present case, was considered and determined. The material 
parts of the judgment dehvered by Sir James Colvile in that case 
are as follows : — 

This is an appeal on the part of the owners of the Spanish steamer 
VdaaqiLez against the sentence or decree of the High Court of Admiralty, 
which has pronounced that that vessel w€W in fault in running down 
the late barque called The Star of Ceylon, and has condemned the 
appellants and their bail in the damages proceeded for, and costs 
of suit. 

The conflict of evidence is far less than gener£klly occurs in cases of 
collision. The undisputed facts of the case are : that about half past 
seven on the evening of the 11th of October last, the steamer, being in 
charge of a licensed pilot, was proceeding up channel, steering north-east 
by north ; whilst this barque was going down channel, hecbding south* 
west by south, and therefore on a course parallel to that of the steamer. 
The wind was east by south ; each vessel was making sbout six knots 
an hour through the water ; and the tide, which was against the steamer, 
was of course in favour of the barque. It is further admitted that at 
some time before the collision the steamer starboarded her helm, or at 
least executed a manoeuvre which had the effect which starboarding a 
helm of the ordinary construction produces ; and that the barque 
ported her helm. The result was a collision in which the barque, being 
struck on the port bow by the stem of the steamer, was sunk, her crew 
happily escaping on board of the steamer. 

The case of the barque is thus stated : " The masthead light of the 
steamer was first seen at the distance of between three and four miles 
nearly ahead, but a little on the port bow of the barque her red or port 
light was subsequently made out in the same direction. She continued 
to approach the barque on her port bow, and in such a direction Cbs to 
involve danger of a collision unless one of the vessels ported ; and as no 
alteration was made in her course when the two vessels were so ne^ 
that it was dangerous for the barque to keep on her course, the 
helm of the latter was ported. Very shortly after this has been 
done, and the vessels wo\ild otherwise have passed cle£^ of each 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



{ «6 ) 

Other, the 8teainshipwa8 aoticecl to be making to wards thebarijiie ; and 
as the only means of avoiding a collision, or lessening the effect thereof, 
the helm of the barque was put hard aport ; but almost immediately 
afterwards the steamer, having shut in her red and opened her greenlight, 
ran stem on into the barque," &c. And the contention of the plaintiffs, 
the owners of the barque, was that the collision was attributable solely to 
the carelessness, negligence, and want of skill of those on board and in 
charge of the steamshop, more especially in their having omitted, either 
from want of a good look-out or otherwise, to take within sufficient time 
the proper measures to keep clear of the barque. 

The defence on the part of the steamer raised the following case : 
'' The barque was first seen at the distance of about three qucurters of a 
mile from, and being from two to three points on the starboard bow of, 
the steamer, and with no light then visible on board the latter. The 
steamer starboarded by order of the pilot, and her head went off to 
port, and she kept out of the way of the barque ; but the latter im- 
properly deviated from her course, under a port helm, and exhibited a 
red light to those on board the steamer, and caused danger of collision ; 
whereupon, by order of the pilot, the steamer hard a-starboarded and 
stopped her engines, but the barque, nevertheless, ran into, and with 
her port bow before the fore-rigging struck the steamer on her stem 
arid starboard bow." And the contention of the defendants was that 
the collision was caused by the negligent and improper navigation of the 
barque. Another and distinct ground of defence is that, if the coll sion 
was in any way occasioned by any body on board the steamer, it was 
occasioned solely by the licensed pilot, whose orders in* resi)ect of her 
navigation were promptly and implicitly obeyed by her master and 
crew. 

In the circumstance stated, it was the duty of the steamer to keep 
out of the way of the sailing vessel, and provided she did so effectually, 
she was at liberty to do it either by starboarding or by porting her helm. 
On the other hand, it was the duty of the barque to keep her course, and 
she could be excused for deviating from it only by showing that it was 
necessary to do so in order to avoid immediate danger. 

At the close of the argument for the appellants their LordshipB 
intimate<l their opinion that no ground had been made for disturbing 
this judgment, in so far as it fotmd that as between the colliding vesseLa 
the steamer was soJ^ely in fault. The conclusions which they drew 
from the evidence were, that the vessels were meeting ix)rt side to x>ort 
aide ; that the steamer took no steps to <\void the barque until the 
vessels were very near each other ; and that in these circumstances 
the barque was justified in porting her helm when she did port it ; 
whilst, on the other hand, the starboarding of the helm of the steamer 
when it took place was a dangerous and improper manoeuvre, and 
the immediate cause of the collision. 

Their Lordships of the Privy Council founded this conclusioia 
mainly upon the inference which they drew from the evidence 
that, if there had been a proper look-out, not only would the 
barque have been descried at a greater distance, but her true 
position would have been known. It was in short held in this case 
that the Vdasqv£z was to blame, because, although she was at 
liberty to get out of the way of the barque Star of Ceylon, either by 
starboarding or porting her helm, it was her duty to take measures 
for this purpose in sufficient time to practically get out of the way, 
and not leave it until so late a moment that there was risk of 
immediate oolliBion. 

Vol. I. DigitizecJ3(54)29 gle 



( 66 ) 

In the present instance, therefore, if I thought that the steamer 
had left it to the last moment to take the proper measures for 
getting out of the way of the schooner, and that it had not acted 
with all the promptness which might have been expected imder the 
oircumstances, then I ought to hold that she, too, was in fault ; 
but it seems to me that there is no good ground why I should not 
accept Mr. Emery's €iccount of the matter, and according to that, 
although he was on the watch and perceived the schooner in the 
first instance before any suggestion of a light proceeded from her, 
yet he had not been able to see her in time to take more effective 
measures than he did take. Had the schooner exhibited to him 
the lights which she was bound to carry, he would have seen at 
the first glance precisely what course she was pursuing, and he 
would probably have seen that she was coming down upon him 
stem on. At any rate, he would not have been obliged to wait for 
two or three minutes before he could ascertain what probably her 
real course and relative position wns. Now, on this evidence, 
taken in connection with that of the plaintiffs' witnesses, I think 
[ cannot avoid the conclusion that the schooner had not got her 
red or green lights shown. Mr. Emery says he did not see them 
at any time, and that he never saw any trace after the collision of 
their having previously been where they ought to have been. There - 
were no broken lamps ; in fact, there was nothing to indicate that 
these lights had existed, and although Abbas and the other witnesses 
called on the part of the plaintiffs say that the lights were burning 
before and up to the time of the collision, they all agree in saying 
that the moment they discovered the white light was not the shore 
light, but a steamer's light, they put up a white light on the forestay. 
Why did they do that, if they had the other lights properly burning ? 
It was a distinct breach of the law for them to do so. The rule 
which obliges sailing vessels to carry the red and the green lights on 
their port and starboard sides respectively forbids them to carry 
any other light. I cannot say that I have the slightest doubt 
that there were no lights exhibited on the part of the schooner 
until the moment when she discovered that the steamer was 
approaching her, and that then the schooner's people held up as 
prominently as they could the white light taken from the cabin. 
If this be so, it was not the fault of Mr. Emery, but distinctly 
that of the schooner, that he was obliged to waste two or three 
minutes in watching the sailing vessel, and in endeavounxig to 
form an opinion as to her course before he could take any steps 
to get out of her way. And how important those t^'O or three or 
four minutes were can be seen at once when it is considered that at 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( «7 ) 

the rates of speed spoken to by the witneBses the two vessels must 
have been approaching each other at the relative velocity of at least 
some twelve miles an hour, which woxdd need only five minutes to 
cover the whole space that Mr. Emeryreckoned intervened between 
the steamer and the schooner when he first perceived the latter. 
The hypothesis by which Mr. Emery explained the temporary 
disappearance of both the schooner and her light was, that although 
the sky was clear there was considerable haze in places on the 
surface of the water. And this is supported by the schooner's own . 
case that it was some time after the mast-head light of the steamer 
was first seen that her side lights came into view. 

The conclusion, then, which I have arrived at on the whole 
of the case is that, while the schooner was materially in fault in 
the matter of this collision, there is no substantial fault attributable 
to the steamer upon which the latter can be made answerable for 
even half the damages sued for. The Judgment of the Court must 
therefore be that the action be dismissed with costs. 

Judgment accordingly. 



SILVA V. GRERO. 
D. C, Colombo, 6 Ml, 

CivU Procedure Code, as, 86 and 87- — Appeal against decree absolute for 

default — " Appearance '* in Court — Decree made absolute after 

appearance a?id showing of insufficient cause. 

Held, per Lawbie, A.C.J. , and Withers, J. (Browne, J., 
dissentierUe), that a decree nisi made absolute in the presence of a 
defendant, who appeared and attempted to show ca\i6e against it, 
18 nevertheless a decree absolute for default, and hence not 
appealable. 

Held, per Lawrie, A.C.J. , that the mere bodily presence of a 
defendant in court is not ' ' appearance . ' ' It must be an appearance 
on the proper day, and if being absent on that day he comes into 
Court either personally or by Proctor on a later day, his non- 
appearance on the proper day nxust be accoimted for, before the 
late coming can be accoimted an " appearance " in the legal 
sense. 

Held, per Browne, J. (dissentiente), that the term " appear " in 
sections 85-87 of the Civil Procedure Code means the first formal 
presentation of himself by the defendant to the Court in person 
or by pioxy ; and that ** decree absolute for default " in section 87 
means " for entire defatdt of appearance prior to entry thereof." 

D. C, Badulla, 370, Natchiappa CheUy v. MuUu Kangany (2 C. L. 
R, J 10), considered and followed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



( 68 ) 

TN this action, summons having been reported duly served on the 
^ defendant, and the defendant not having entered appearance 
on the returnable day, the case was heard ex parte in due course 
and decree nisi entered in favour of plaintiff. On the day fixed for 
making the decree absolute, defendant appeared by Proctor, and 
for reasons mentioned in his affidavit moved to have the decree 
nisi set aside, and to be allowed to file answer. After argument, 
the District Judge held that the defendant had not established 
his right to have the decree set aside on. the ground of irregularity, 
and that he had failed to excuse his default. The decree nisi was 
made absolute against him. 

The defendant appealed. 



Van Langenberg, for plaintiff respondent, took the preliminary 
objection that an appeal did not lie, and cited NatcMappa v, MvUu 
Kangany {2 C, L. R. 110). 

Pereira, for defendant appellant, submitted that the case cited 
deserved to be re-considered. 

Their Lordships ordered the case to be listed for argument before 
the Collective Court. 

Pereira, for defendant appellant. A decree absolute for default 
is a decree made absolute, in consequQpce of the default of a 
defendant to show cause against a decree nisi. Against such a 
decree absolute, the Code, section 87, enjoins there shall be no 
appeal. But the decree in the present case is not a decree absolute 
for default. The defendant appeared and showed cause against 
the decree nisi being made absolute ; the plaintiff was heard contra; 
and the decree made absolute. That was an order inter partes, and 
the defendant could not move the Court below to set it aside. 
His only remedy was by appeal, and an appeal lay under section 75 
of the Courts Ordinance. There is a distinction drawn in section 87 
of the Code between a decreo absolute for default and a decree 
absolute after cause shown. That section provides for the setting 
aside, on the motion of the defendant, of a decree absolute for 
default, by the very Court which passed such decree, and it also 
provides for an appeal from an order setting aside or refusing to 
set aside such decree. The decree absolute for default contem- 
plated by the Code is therefore decree entered ex parte, but the 
present decree was entered after both parties were heard, and it 
was not therefore a decree absolute for default. If no appeal is 
allowed from a decree such as the present, a defendant who 
deliberately absents himself after service on him of notice of 
decree nisi would be in a better position than one who appears to 

Digitized by VjOOQ 16 



( 69 ) 

such notice and shows cause. The latter will have no remedy 
against the CJourt's order making the decree absolute, while the 
fonner might move to set aside such order and appeal against a 
refusal of the Ck>urt to do so. 

If the word default in section 87 referred to the original default 
for which the decree nisi was entered, then there would be the 
absurdity of every decree absolute being a decree absolute for 
default. 

Van Langenbergy for plaintiff respondent, contra. 

Cur. adv. wit. 

28th February, 1895. Lawbib, A.C.J.— 

This is an appeal from a decree in these terms : " The decree 
*" niH coming on for final order before . . the District Judge of 
■' Colombo, on the 12th day of June, 1894, being the day appointed 

* to show cause against it, of which decree the defendant received 
'' notice, as appears by the affidavit of . . , server, dated 

• 2nd June, 1894, and the plaintiff, appearing by his Proctor, and 
*" the defendant, and no cause being shown to the contrary, the 
" decree nisi is made absolute." 

Is it possible to read this decree otherwise than as a decree 
absolute for default ? If it be a decree absolute for default, then 
the Code is explicit no appeal shall lie. 

If I understand the argument of the appellant aright, he con- 
tends that the fact of the appearance of the defendant in the District 
Court, mentioned in the decree, showed that it was not a decree 
absolute for default, but that it was a final decree inter partes, 
against which an appeal lies. 

If that be the argument of the appellant, I am against him. 

It seems to me that the mere bodily presence of a defendant in 
court is not an appearance. 

It must be an appearance on the proper day, and if being absent 
on that proper day he comes to Court either personally or by 
Proctor on a later day, his non-appearance on the proper day must 
be accounted for before the late coming can be accounted an appear- 
ance in the legal sense. 

The defendant in the present case was in Court, but he did not 
" apx>ear " on the day when the decree under appeal was pronounced. 
If on that day he tried to be heard, if he presented affidavits, if he 
tendered proof, the decree is silent ; but the record shows that he 
made an attempt to show that his default to appear on the 
proper day was reasonable, but the same record shows that the 
Court held these reasons to be unreasonable ; the District Jiidge 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 70 ) 

treated the coming to Court as no appearance ; he made the decree 
nisi absolute— why ? Because the defendant was in default. 

Therefore it seems to me that it is impossible to treat this decree 
otherwise than as a decree absolute for default, against which no 
appeal lies. I am unable to draw a distinction between this case 
and that reported in 2 Ceylon Law , Reports, 110. It is indeed 
admitted that the facts are the same, but that was decided by my 
brother Withers and me, whereas this comes before a Full Court, 
and we were ready to re-consider the point. As I gave a silent 
concurrence with my brother on the former occasion, it is right 
that I should give my reasons now. 

Dealing then with this appeal as against the decree of the 12th 
June, T am of the opinion that that was on a decree absolute for 
default, and that no appeal lies. 

I am not sure that an appeal would not lie against a District 
Judge's finding that the cause shown was not reasonable. If the 
Judge had first adjudicated on the grounds stated and supported 
by the defendant, and had distinctly and separately found that 
these were unreasonable, and ordered that a decree be entered, I 
am not sure that an appeal would not lie against that finding and 
order. I reserve my judgment, should an appeal from such a 
finding or order come before me. An appeal might lie, but it is 
not likely that the Appellate Court would upset the decision of the 
District Court. Unfortunately in cases where a defendant has 
merely to show reasonable grounds for his default, he usually 
states grounds which are abundantly reasonable, but which on 
investigation turn out to be untrue ; I think the discretion given 
to the Judge to adjudicate on the reasonableness and truthfulness 
of cause shown can safely be left with him. 

I am for rejecting this appeal, as an appeal from a decree absolute 
for default. I adhere to the judgment in the case reported in the 
second volume of the Ceylon Law Reports, 110. 



Withers, J. — 

I quite feel the force of Mr. W. Pereira's argument that the Civil 
Procedure Code in the 86th and 87th sections passes over the case of 
an order nisi made absolute in the presence of the party who has 
appeared to show cause against the order nisi for default being 
made absolute, and leaves it to be regulated by the 76th section of 
Ordinance No. 1 of 1889, which enacts that " subject to the provisions 
" in that behalf in the Criminal Procediure Code or any Ordinanoe 
" amending the same, provided any party who shall be dissatisfied 
" with any judgment, decree, or order pronounced by a District 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



/ 



( 71 ) 

** Court, may (excepting when such right is expressly disallowed) 
" appeal to the Supreme Court against any such judgment, decree, or 
" order, &c., from any error in law or in fact committed by such 
** Court,*' &c., but I am confronted by the words " no appeal shall 
lie against any decree nisi or absolute for default," which form the 
first sentence of the 87th section of the Civil Procedure Code. 
They expressly disallow an appeal from any decree nisi or absolute 
for default. 

It cannot be denied that an order nisi made absolute for default 
is none the less a decree absolute for default because it has been 
made after hearing cause shown by the party in default. 

The default is the ground both of the order and the decree. 

No doubt that the 87th section goes on to say that, in the event of 
a decree being made absolute in the absence of a party who has or 
should have had notice of the order nisi, the party aggrieved may 
apply to have the decree set aside for the grounds assigned in the 
section, and that either party may appeal from the final order on 
that application. But this is the only relaxation of the provision 
that " no appeal shall lie against any decree nisi or absolute for 
default." So I still understand the provision of this section, and 
I abide by my former opinion in the case of Nachippa CheUy v, 
MvJttoo Kangani, reported in 2 Ceylon Law Reports, 110, 

Thus the preliminary objection of Mr. Van Langenberg succeeds, 
and the appeal must be dismissed. 



Bbownb, J. — 

I am free to consider and take part in the decision of the preli- 
minary objection raised for the respondent that no appeal lies 
from the order which, as District Judge, I made in this action on 
the 12th June last, for the question of right to appeal could not 
have been, and never was raised before me. And I have the 
greater satisfaction in holding, as I am prepared to do, that the 
objection is untenable, in that thereby it is made possible to have 
my order considered in appeal. Defendant failed to appear to 
summons, and I heard the case ex parte, receiving plaintJfiF'8 
evidence, and entered decree nisi. When plaintijff moved to mako 
it absolute, Mr. Perera for defendant sought both to satisfy me 
that there had been reasonable ground for default, and to show 
grounds why plaintiff, on the material before the Court, was not 
entitled to have decree entered in his favour. Over-ruling his 
objection I made the decree absolute, and from my decision he 
claims to have right to appeal, desiring to have reconsidered the 
decision of this Court in S70, D. C, Badulla (2 Ceylon Law Reports, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 72 ) 

110)y which is quite in point, pronounced by the other members of 
this Court, who have acceded to his desire. 

The view I take I base upon the use of the term ** appear " in 
sections 85 to 87, which I take to mean the first formal presentation 
of himself by the defendant to the Court in person or by proxy. 
Section 86 is clearly to be divided into two parts, according as to 
whether the defendant does or does not appear upon service of the 
decree nisiy and I would construe it and section 87 as if they were 
thus written : — 

86 If having appeared to the notice defendant shall fail to 
satisfy the court, &c., then the court shall make the decree absolute, 
&c., as is in this Ordinance provided. If, however, the defendant 
shall satisfy the court there were reasonable grounds, &c., the court 
shall set aside the decree, &c., as the court shall deem fit. 

87 (a) If the defendant does not appear on the day appointed 
in the decree nisi for showing cause, and if the court is satisfied 
that notice of the decree has been duly served, then the court shall 
make the decree absolute, &c., Ordinance hereinafter provided. 

(b) No appeal sl^ll lie against any decree nisi or absolute for 
default, but if any defendant against whom a decree absolute for 
default shall have been passed shall within a reasonable time 
appear and satisfy the court, &c., the court may set aside the decree 
or refuse to do so, which order shall be liable to appeal. 

A defendant, I take it, cannot ordinarily " appear " twice in an 
action. Hence the provisions of the present section 87 apply only 
to the case when he first appears after decree absolute entered, and 
show that the ** decree absolute for default " in its first line means 
" for entire default of appearance prior to entry thereof." When he 
appears upon service of decree nisi, and fails to obtain grace, the 
order made is one inJler partes, and the court would not allow him 
to appear again under section 87 and re-discuss its previous 
ruUng. Hence no special provision has been made to enable 
him to challenge the ruling of the Court other than the ordinary 
procedure of appeal. 

He is surely entitled to it. If he delayed to appear till after 
decree absolute were entered, and then appeared and was un- 
successful, section 87 gives him a procedure whereby he can win 
a right of appeal therefrom. Why then, when he comes earlier 
into Court, should he be more hardly treated by being refused any 
appeal at all from an order like the present ? For, as I have said, 
the Court would not allow him to re-appear and re-argue under 
section 87, and thereby win an entrance through the gate of appeal 
which a greater defaulter has provided for him. 



Digitized by 



Google 



( 73 ) 

Bidding the sections as I have done, I would hold that my 
section 86 is entitled to be supplemented by the ordinary appeal 
right in section 75 of the Courts Ordinance and procedure, my 
section 87 (a) being specially supplemented by the provisions in 
it enabling appeal. 

I would therefore hold that the defendant is entitled to have 
this appeal heard. 



ALAWATUGODA RATEMAHATMEYA v. KIRIWANTE. 
P. C, Nuwara Eliya, 8,926. 

Forest Orditiance, No. 10 of 1885, chapter IV. — ProsectUion under rules 

oj 3rd February, 1887 — Proof in such cases — Validity of judgment 

— Criminal Procedure Code, s. 372. 

In a prosecution for clearing (for chena cultivation) a land at the 
disposal of the Crown without a permit, in breach of a rule framed 
under chapter IV. of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1886, it is necessary 
to prove that the land is not one within a reserved or village forest ; 
that it is at the disposed of the Crown ; that it is a chena ; that its 
extent and boundaries are so and so ; and that the accused cleared it. 

A judgment of a criminal court should specify the offence with 
which the accused is charged, in terms of section 372 of the Criminal 
EVocedure Code. 

nnHE charge against the accused in this case was that he cleared 
-*- for chena cultivation a land known as Komarikagalgawahena 
(situated at Thenpila in Walapane), at the disposal of the Crown, 
without a permit from the Government Agent or Assistant Govern- 
ment Agent within whose jurisdiction the land was situated, in 
breach of clause 1 of the rules dated 3rd February, 1887, framed 
under chapter IV. of Ordinance No. 10 of 1885, and the Police 
Magistrate, after evidence heard, delivered judgment as follows : 
" This is Crown land under the Ordinance 12 of 1840. Defendant 
" is convicted and fined two rupees and fifty cents." 

On appeal (taken with leave of the CJourt below), Wendt appeared 
for accused appellant. 

The Supreme Court quashed the conviction and remitted the 
case for further evidence. 

19th March, 1895. WiTHBBJf, J.— 

The accused has been sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 2*50, but the 
judgment which precedes the sentence is defective for this, if for 
no other, reason, that it does not specify the offence in the mode 
required by section 372 of the Oiminal Procedure Code. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 74 ) 

But I will assume that the offence is the breach of a rule passed 
on the 3rd February, 1887, in conformity with the provisions of 
the 4th chapter of Ordinance No. 10 of 1886, which forbids clearing 
for chena cultivation land at the disposal of the Crown without 
a permit, and that in violation of that rule the accused on some day 
in September, 1894, cleared for chena cultivation without a permit 
a land of three kurunies in extent, known as Komarikagalgawahena» 
situated at Thenpila in Walapane. 

Can this conviction be supported ? The Magistrate has given 
the accused leave to appeal from this judgment, and so I have 
jurisdiction to entertain the appeal. I do not know how the 
accused came to obtain the leave of the Court to appeal. I can 
only suppose that the Magistrate felt some doubt about the correct- 
ness of his decision. 

Unfortunately there is not sufficient material to enable me to 
determine whether the accused is innocent or guilty of the offence 
laid to his chaige. In the first place, no one testifies that the 
accused did, as a matter of fact, clear the land above mentioned for 
chena cultivation. In the second place, there is no evidence that 
this land is not within a reserved or village forest ; and as these 
rules can only relate to land at the Crown's disposal other than 
that included in a reserved or village forest, this fact, if it be a 
fact, is one necessary to be established by the prosecution. Then, 
there is not sufficient material for me to determine whether the said 
land is at the disposal of the Crown. I should like to know some- 
thing more about the situation of this little patch of ground, for, 
according to the complaint, the so-called herui is only three kumnies 
in extent. If this is a mistake of mine, and if the extent relates to 
the extent cleared, then I should like to know what the entire extent 
of the land Komarikagalgawahena is. It does not follow that every 
patch of ground in the Island which has forest trees on it, or is waste, 
or is unoccupied or uncultivated, is presumed to be the property 
of the Crown. Again, this parcel of land is not said to be a chena, 
though bearing the name of Komarikagalgawahena, nor is it shown 
to be land which can only be cultivated after intervals of several 
years. 

The one witness for the prosecution deposes that it is covered 
with lantana scrub. Why should not that be cultivated every 
year ? The one witness further deposes that the land has no 
boundaries. I cannot conceive such a state of things. It must 
have some boundaries, or at least be surroimded on all four sides 
by something distinguishable from itself — path, river, road, field, 
or something. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 76 ) 

If it is contained within a larger area of Crown land, what are 
the boundaries of that land ? If a piece of Crown land has no 
boundaries, boundary marks, or clearly defined limits of some 
kind, how is a person to know whether he is inside or outside of 
a piece of Crown land ? Can a purely forest offence be imputed 
to a man, if he cannot know whether he is acting outside or inside 
a land at the disposal of the Crown ? 

The inquiry into this allied offence errs on the side of com- 
pendious packing. I therefore quash the conviction and remit 
the case for further inquiry into the points indicated, and I trust 
that the judgment will be in accordance with the 372nd section 
of the Criminal Procedure Code. 



REGINA V. CHARLES DIAS. 
Mdtara Criminal Sessions, No. 2, 

Evidence — Dying declaration of person whose death was not the subject 

of inquiry at the trial — Its adrmssihility under s. 466 of the Criminal 

Procedure Code and under the commnon law, 

A statement made by a dying man before an Inquirer into Deaths 
is not receivable in evidence under section 466 of the Criminal 
Procedure Code, not having been made on oath or affirmation, 
nor taken down by a Police Magistrate. 

Per BoNSEB, C.J. — ^The declarat on of a dying person whose 
death did not form the subject of inquiry at the trial is not 
admissible without proof that the declarant was in actual danger 
of death woA had given up all hope of recovery, and that the deaths 
of the decleirant and the person whose death was being investigated 
were all due to one and the same transcKstion. 

nnHE accused in this case was convicted of murder at a Criminal 
^ Sessions of the Supreme Court held at M4tara in May last, 
and a question of law was reserved by the presiding Commissioner 
of Assize and referred to the Supreme Court for decision under 
section 424 of the Criminal IVocedure Code. 

Two murders, consequent upon a land dispute, had been com- 
mitted almost simultaneously and in the same place at Dikwella 
on the 17th of December, 1894 : one by Dias, who killed Andris ; 
the other by Gregoris, who killed Tilloris. A desultory fighting 
was maintained, after the two murders had taken place, between 
the trespassing party and some of the party of the deceased 

Digitized by VjOOQ 16 



( 76 ) 

persons, who were brothers. One Andrias, a brother of Dias, while 
fighting with a brother of the two murdered men, received a gun-shot 
wound and died. It appeared that some time before his death he 
made a dying declaration to the effect that he killed both Dias and 
Gregoris. 

In the case against Dias, the alleged dying declaration of Andrias 
was attempted to be given in evidence. The Commissioner of 
Assize disallowed the question put in that behalf to a witness for 
the defence, and the jury returned a verdict of guilty against the 
accused. The learned Commissioner thereupon referred the follow- 
ing case for the decision of two or more Judges of the Supreme 
Court : — 

Case Reserved, 

I have the honour to refer to the Hon. the Supreme Court the 
following questions which arose at the trial of the above-named 
accused on the 15th instant, for the murder of one Don Andris 
Kumaratunga by stabbing. 

The case for the prosecution on the evidence was that accused 
and twenty-five to fifty others committed criminal trespass on a 
cocoanut garden in the possession or occujjation of deceased Andris 
and his brother TiUoris ; that these latter ran from 150 yards off to 
protect their property, and a fight ensued between them and the 
trespassers in a kuraklcan enclosure ; that Tilloris was beaten and 
fell, and, when rising, was stabbed by one Grigoris (who was 
convicted of such murder on the day previous to this trial) ; that 
Andris, deceased, thereupon ran from the enclosure into an 
adjoining field, and was chased by the accused and two others of 
the trespassers, was beaten and fell on his face, and was then 
stabbed in the back by the accused ; and that immediately there- 
after as Andrias, another of the trespassers, was fighting with 
Mendris (a brother of the two men already stabbed), he (Andrias) 
was killed by a gun-shot wound. 

The defence called two witnesses, who deposed that aftei 
plucking nuts in the enclosure by lawful right they were menaced 
and went to the field ; that there the deceased brothers Tilloris 
and Andris attacked Andrias, and that Andrias, in self-defence, 
drew his knife and, as Andris turned from it, he (Andrias) stabbed him 
(Andris)in. the back first of all,and thenstabbedTiUoris, who jumped 
into the enclosure, after which a shot was fired and Andrias fell 
wounded. 

In addition to these witnesses the following witness was examined. 
To quote my notes : — 

Francis de Silva Abey wardena sworn. 

I am Mudaliyar of Wellaboda pattu and Inquirer into Deaths. I 
know Kadjugaha Koratuwa. I went there on 1 7th December. I saw 
Andrias on the road lying on a cot. He is a son of the Veda Arachchi. 
He was suffering from gun-shot wounds, and appeared to be in great 
pain. He died about three hours after I saw him. Before his death 
I spoke to him. He made a statement as to who injured him, and whom 
he injured. 

Mr. Pereira proposes to ask this witness what statement the dying man 
made. 

I disedlow it, since the statement was not made and recorded in 
accordonoe with the provisions of section 466 of the Criminal 
Procedured Code. ^ ^ ■ 

Digitized by VjOOQ l6 



( 77 ) 

The accused was convicted and sentenced to death, execution of 
sentence being respited for a month. In view of this necessary 
respite, and although I did not at the trial expressly reserve the 
question for the decision of the Supreme Court, I would desire to 
be permitted to refer for their decision or review the question, 
whether or not the statement made to the Inquirer by Andrias 
should have been admitted by me in evidence, so that the convic- 
tion, if thereby improperly obtained, may be quashed. I desire 
this entirely by reason of the sentence and punishment which 
follows upon the conviction, and not because I myself doubt that 
my rejection of it was correct. 

For, so far as I can see by the text books before me, "the deceased ' ' 
— ^whose dying declarations are admissible upon the principles 
laid down in R. v. Mead, 2B,d:G. 605, and R. v. Hind, 29 L. J. if. 
C. 148 (called " the party " in JR. t;. Hutchinson, 2 B. <k C, 408), as 
cited in Roacoe, 11th edition, 32, and 3 RuaseU, 267 j 8 — ^is the person 
whose death is the subject of inquiry. I do not find in the text 
books any case anent the dying declaration of any person other 
than such ** deceased subject of inquiry " being admitted in 
evidence, except in one instance. The case of i?. v. Baker, 2 M. <Ss 
Rob, 53, where an inquiry into the death of a man poisoned by 
eating a cake made by his maid, who had also eaten of it and was 
poisoned ; hor dying declaration was received, on the ground that 
it was all one transaction. Roscoe (p, 32) cites this ruling, but at 
once refers to R. v. Hind and R. v. Hutchinson in such a manner 
as to imply that this admission of the declaration of one not the 
** deceased subject of inquiry " was contrary to that rule. 

And can it be said here that the death of Andrias by a gtm-shot 
wound from some other hand was *' one and the same transaction '* 
as the prior death of Andris ? In R. v. Baker the cause of death 
was the same, the poisoned cake ; but not so here. The decision 
in R. V, Baker must have been passed before the Statute 30 and 31 
Vic, c. 35, 5 6, was enacted, from which section 466 of our Criminal 
Procedure Code is taken, and under the operation of it I would 
submit for consideration whether Andrias was not truly a witness 
within its purview. Had he not been injured and died, that 
would have been his position ; and if at any time between iVndris's 
death and the trial he had sickened to the danger of his life, his 
examination could only have been taken as section 466 directs, 
after notice in writing {R. v. Shurnier, 17 Q.B.D. 323) to the accused. 

Will the fact that he met his death at the same time and place 
(only, for his death was not due to the same cause) as the deceased 
subject Andris, permit his dying declaration to be received ? It 
might be urged that the apprehension of death had not been 
proved ere the witness was asked to narrate the statement, and 
my rejection of the testimony might be supported thereon. But I 
would even presume the intended statement would include an 
assertion of that apprehension, and that it was yet open to me to 
inquire into the state of illness, &o. (3 Russ. 266), 

I woidd therefore humbly submit for the consideration of the 
Hon. the Supreme Court, whether, if it had been proved that 
Andrias was under due apprehension of death, his dying declara- 
tion should have been admitted in evidence by me, and ask that, 
if necessary, order may be made under section 425 of the Criminal 
Procedure Code. Dodwell F. Browne, 

Commissioner of Assize. t 

Digitized by VjOOQ l6 



( 78 ) 

Walter Pereira appeared for the prisoner. The Commissioner 
of Assize disallowed the evidence simply because the statement 
of the deceased was not made and recorded in accordance with 
the provisions of section 466 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 
That section merely gives power to Police Magistrates to take 
evidence beforehand of persons lying dangerously ill, with a view 
to perpetuate their testimony to be used at the trial, but the section 
was not intended to abrogate or modify the general law of evidence 
as to the admissibility of dying declarations. The general rule 
as to dying declarations is, no doubt, that such declarations, though 
made with a full consciousness of approaching death, are only 
admissible in evidence where the death of the deceased is the 
subject of the charge, and the circumstances of the death are 
the subject of the declarations ; but I rely on the ruling of the Court 
in B. V. Baker, 2 M, ds Bob. 63, where the dying declarations of 
a person other than the deceased for whose murder the prisoner 
was being tried was admitted in evidence on the ground that the 
declarant himself met with his death and the declaration was made 
in the course, so to say, of the " same transaction " as that in which 
the deceased whose death was being inquired into was killed. In 
the present case, Andrias met with his death in the same general 
fight as that in which TiUoris and Andris were stabbed, and it is 
as to who stabbed these two that the declaration in question is 
said to have been made. 



Bdmandthan, S.-G., submitted B.v. Baker was a solitary decision, 
which did not appear to rest on sound principle, and which was 
thought by the Judge who pronounced the ruling to be deserving 
of the consideration and adjudication of a higher tribunal. Even 
if that decision were accepted, the dying declaration of Andrias 
was inadmissible, as it was not shown that it was made imder 
a settled hopeless expectation of death (Qiieen v, Jenkins, 1 L. B. 
C. C. 187), Nor did section 466 of the Criminal Procedure Code 
apply, as the statement was made before the Inquirer into Deaths, 
and not before the Police Magistrate. Under any circumstance, 
the case reserved by the Commissioner was an hypothetical case, 
and did not really " arise in the course of the trial " as provided 
in section 424 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The questions 
submitted were improperly before the Supreme Court, for want of 
evidence that Andrias was under a settled hopeless expectation of 
death. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 79 ) 
28th May, 1895. Bonsbr, C.J.— 

The question which has been reserved for the consideration of 
this Ck>nrt by the learned Commissioner of Assize is this — " Whether, 
" if it had been proved that Andrias was under due apprehension 
'' of death, his dying declaration should have been admitted in 
*'' evidence." The Solicitor-General called attention to the fact 
that this is an hypothetical question, and that therefore it was 
not a question which arose in the course of the trial, and is not such 
a question as this Court can be called upon to answer. I agree 
with him that this is so ; but at the same time, considering that the 
matter is one of life or death to the accused, I think it right that 
we should express an opinion on the case. 

What occurred at the trial was this. The counsel for the defence 
called an Inquirer into Deaths, to whom a statement had been 
made by a dying man named Andrias. This man appears to have 
received the gun-shot wound which caused his death at or near 
the same time and place at which the deceased man, for whose 
m irder the accused was being tried, was stabbed to death. The 
Inquirer deposed as follows : " Before his death I spoke to him. 
*' He made a statement as to who injiu'ed him and whom he injured." 
The counsel for the defence then proposed to ask what this statement 
was, but the learned Commissioner refused to admit the statement 
on the ground that it was not made and recorded in accordance 
with the provisions of section 466 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 
that is to say, it was not made on oath or afiSrmation and taken 
down by a Police Magistrate. It seems to me that, at that stage 
of the case and in that state of the evidence, the learned 
Commissioner was quite right in refusing to admit the statement. 
It clearly could not have been admitted under section 466 of the 
Criminal Procedure Code. 

Then, coidd it have been admitted as being a dying declaration ? 
It appears to me that it could not. In Mr. Justice Stephen's 
Digest of the Law of Evidence the rule is thus stated — ^and, in my 
opinion, correctly stated : that such a declaration is admissible 
" only in trials for the murder or manslaughter o{ the declarant, 
" and only when the declarant is shown, to the satisfaction of the 
" Judge, to have been in actual danger of death, and to have given 
'* up all hope of recovery at the time when his declaration was 
"made." Now, in the present case, the person who made the 
declaration was not the person whose death formed the subject 
of inquiry at the trial. Moreover, it was not shown that the 
declarant was in actual danger of death, and had given upl all 
hope of recovery. It may be that he was in actual danger of 
death — ^for he died about three hours afterwards. But there ip ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 80 ) 

absolutely no evidence as to his own opinion of his cozidition, or 
whether he did or did not entertain any ho|)e of recovery. It was 
incumbent on the party wishing to get the declaration admitted in 
evidence, to prove to the satisfaction of the Judge that the 
declarant had given up all hope of recovery at the time the 
declaration was made. This was not proved nor attempted to be 
proved, so that, as I observed before, on the state of facts proved 
before the learned Commissioner, there was no ground ux)on which 
be could have admitted this declaration. 

Assuming, however, for the moment that the proper foundation 
had been laid for the question by its having been proved that the 
man Andrias was not only in actual danger of death, but also had 
given up all hope of recovery, still I am of opinion that his statement 
was inadmissible. 

Mr. Pereira, who said all that could be urged in favour of the 
admissibility of the statement, sought to bring it "within the principle 
of the case oi R. v. Baker, 2 M. d; Rob. 63. That was a case where 
two persons were poisoned by eating the same cake at the same time, 
and died almost immediately afterwards. The accused was tried 
for the miuxier of one of them. A dying declaration by the other 
person, that she had made the cake in the presence of the aocused, 
and had put nothing bad in it, was admitted as evidence for the 
prosecution on the groimd that *' it was all one transaction." The 
point, however, was reserved, but, as the prisoner was acquitted, it 
could not be further discussed. That case was an exceptional one, 
and is characterized by Mr. Justice Stephen ,^in the book to which 
I have just referred, as a curious one. For ray own part, I should 
not be disposed to follow it, except where the facts were the same, 
or practically identical. The present case is, however, \videly 
different from that case. If the declarant, and the person whose 
death was being investigated, had both died of wounds caused by 
the same shot, then perhaps the statement might have been 
admissible. But nothing of that kind occurred here. The only 
ground suggested is that the declarant received his death-woimd 
at and about the same time and place as the deceased whose death 
was being investigated. There is not, in my opinion, sufficient 
connection between the declaration and the last-mentioned death 
to make them ** all one transaction" and bring them within the case 
of i?. V. Baker. The answer, therefore, to the questiou proi)06ed 
will be in the negative. 

I have dealt with this matter at such length for the sole reason 
that a question of life and death is involved. But I feel this 
difficulty — ^that had our answer been in the affirmative, we could 
not have given any practical effect to oiu* opinion. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 81 ) 

Lawbib, J. — 

I agree. Siifficient foundation had not been laid for the question, 
"What statement did Andrias make?" But if I allow myself 
to assume that Andrias was under due apprehension of death ; 
that he had lost all hope of life ; that he was still in a fit state of 
mind to be able to speak clearly and truthfully ; and that he died 
soon after ; — even if I assume these facts, evidence of a statement 
by Andrias made to the Inquirer into Deaths was hearsay, and there- 
fore inadmissible, because the death of Andrias was not the subject 
of the charge before the jury. If the statement he made was as 
to the circumstances of his own death, it was irrelevant in that trial. 
If it was as to the circumstances of the death of a person other than 
himself, it was inadmissible. 



ROWEL MUDALIYAR v. PIERIS et al. 

G. S., CMlaw, 2,299. 

Right of Crown to license use of foreshore of the sea — Competency of 
Mtidaliydr of District to sue for rent for Crown land. 

It is competent for the Crown, by its regiilarly appointed agents, 
to grant licenses to fishermen to spread their nets on the seashore 
or on land belonging to the Crown adjacent to the seashore. 

Rent for Crown land cannot be sued for in the name of the 
Mudaliyir of the District, but in that of the Queen. 

T^HE plaintifif in this case was " A. de Rowel, MudaliyAr, 
-^ Mudaliyar of the Southern Division, Vaikkal," who alleged 
in his plaint that he had been authorized in writing by the Assistant 
Government Agent for the District of Chilaw to represent the 
Crown in this suit. 

He sued the defendants for the recovery of five rupees, in that 
" they occupied by permission of the Assistant Government Agent 
" for the District of Chilaw from November, 1893, to April, 1894, 
"a portion of land belonging to the Crown, in extent 600 by 
" 12 yards, and bordering the foreshore, situate at,*' &o. 

The defendants pleaded, iriter alia, that they were fishermen 
by trade, and that they and their ancestors, who were also fisher- 
men, had, '' by long usage and ancient custom," hauled their 
" fishing nets, boats, tackle, &c., on the land bordering the foreshore 
''of certain villages, free of payment to, and independent of, the 
" Crown or other person ; and that the Assistant Government 

Vol. I. Dii2(54)29 OOgle 



( 82 ) 

'' Agent, through his headman, attempted to levy an illegal and 
'' unauthorized tax by the issue of licenses to the fishermen who 
' had used the foreshore for the purposes aforesaid/' and that, on 
petition preferred, His Excellency the Gk>vemor had directed the 
discontinuance of the levy of the fee complained of. 

The Commissioner (Mr. Lewis), after hearing evidence, referred 
to case No. 2,097 D. C, Colombo (1 8. C. Reports, 11), and g^ve 
judgment for plaintiff for one rupee. 

On appeal, Dornhorst appeared for defendant appellant. 

Templer, Acting 8.-0., for plaintiff respondent. 

21st February, 1895. Lawbie, A.C.J.— 

I entertain no doubt that it is competent for the Crown, by its 
regularly appointed agents, to grant licenses to fishermen to spread 
their nets on the seashore or on land belonging to the Crown adjacent 
to the shore. It seems to me to be reasonable to make use of such 
land, but without the express or tacit license from the Crown to 
occupy the land adjoining the sea, the fishing trade would be 
impossible. In this case the defendant lias been very tenderly 
dealt with by Mr. Lewis. 

The decree against which the defendant appeals is to pay one 
ruj)ee, and no costs. Holding, as I do, that this bit of land adjoining 
the seashore is a land at the disposal of the Crown, and that the 
defendant for some part of the six months in question occupied 
the land from time to time by stretching his nets there, that he had 
been informed by the Mudaliydr of the District that he must pay 
a small rent, and that he had somewhat unwillingly agreed to do 
so, I shall not disturb this judgment, but I must point out that the 
Mudaliyar had no title to sue in his own name. The suit ought 
to have been in the name of Her Majesty the Queen ; to her is due 
this rent ; she alone has right to sue for it ; but this defect has 
not occasioned any failure of justice. I afi&rm the judgment. 
The Commissioner found no costs to be due to or by either party 
in the Coiui) below ; let that be followed by no costs in appeal. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 83 ) 

APPUHAMI et ai. v. KIEIHAMI et aL 
D. C, K^aUa, 474. 

Slander^^ Action by parent and daughter for slander of daughter — Right of 
parent to sue — Proof of special damage. 

A father cannot sue for damages for slander of his daughter 
although he may have felt pained by such slander. 

To say of a Sinhalese wonmn of the Vellala caste, in the presence 
and hearing of many persons assembled at a dinner party, that 
she had run away with a Wahumpura man is ekstionable as slander. 

Proof of special damage is not necessary in Ceylon to sustain an 
action for slander. 

nnHE first plaintiff was the father of the second. They alleged 

^ that they were Kandyan Sii^halese of the Vellala caste, that 

the second plaintiff was married out in diga to one Kiri Banda, 

and that " at a dinner at Pinnewela , at the house of one 

*' Punchirala, on the 18th day of January, 1894, at which several 

'* people were present, the defendants falsely and mali- 

" ciously spoke, said, and published to the said Punchirala and 
"certain other persons there present at the aforesaid dinner, 
" the words following ; that is to say, ' Your (meaning the first 
" plaintiff) daughter (meaning the second plaintiff) ran away with 
" a Wahumpura man,' meaning thereby that the first plaintiff 
*' was degraded and disgraced by the act of the second plaintiff, 
*' and that he was not a fit person to associate with ; and also 
"meaning that the second plaintiff was guilty of acts of incon- 
" tinence and adultery and immorality, and had disgraced herself 
" with a low-caste man." 

They further alleged that the said words were false and malicious, 
and that, ** in consequence of these words, the first plaintiff has 
" been disgraced and degraded and was not allowed to sit down 
" at the dinner aforesaid or to associate with the other guests ; 
" and the second plaintiff has been disgraced in character and 
"reputation, and haj3 been turned out of her house by her 
" husband, the aforesaid Kiri Banda ; and by reason of the premises, 
"the plaintiffs have suffered loss and damage to the extent of 
"Rs. 500." 

The defendants took exception to the form of the plaint and 
its sufficiency in law, and pleaded, inter alia, that the words in 
question were spoken without malice, and in the bond fide belief 
that they were true and under such circumstances as made them a 
privileged communication ; that is to say, that at a private dinner, 
being requested by his host to sit at the same table with the. first 
plaintiff, the first defendant declined to do so, and being asked his 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Cur, adv. wit. 



( 84 ) 

reason, he stated that '' it was because first plaintiff's daughter had 
** run away with a Wahumpura man, a man of low caste, and 
" therefore his host placed first plaintiff and first defendant at 
** separate tables." The second defendant denied having ever 
spoken the words complained of. 

The District Judge, after hearing the case both on the law and 
merits, dismissed plaintiff's action, on the ground that they had 
not proved that they suffered any damage in consequence of the 
words used. 

Plaintiffs appealed. 

Domhorst, for appellants. 

De Saram, for defendants respondents. 

14th February, 1896. Lawrie, A.C.J.— 

The first plaintiff has not alleged or proved special damage. 
He is not entitled to sue for words defamatory of his daughter, 
although he may have felt pained and distressed. This rule has 
been applied in India. There is a case reported in 1 Madras, p. 383^ 
where it was held that a brother cannot sue for slander of his 
sister. In the case before us the father and daughter join in the 
action, which, so far as the father is concerned, should, I think, 
be dismissed with costs. 

I agree that it is not proved that the second defendant slandered 
the second plaintiff. He was present at the wedding party, and 
heard and probably sympathized with his brother, but it was an 
exaggeration to assert that he too repeated the words complained 
of. The action as against him must be dismissed with costs. 

With regard to the action by the second plaintiff against the 
first defendant, the case is, I think, weak. From early times the 
Sinhalese have been very particular as to those who are invited 
to weddings. It is regarded as an affront to be omitted, and as an 
equal affront to be invited to meet inferior people. 

Marshall, p. 412, gives two instances where refusals to sit down 
at a marriage feast with persons of doubtful reputation were held 
to give a cause of action against the too fastidious guest, and 
therefore the objection stated to this young lady's presence on 
the particular occasion was not unusual, though of course I do 
not put it, as the defendant puts it, that the occasion was. 

The plaintiff alleged special damage, that she had been turned 
out of her house by her husband, but that was disproved at the 
trial. She and her husband had ceased to live together before 
this wedding. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 85 ) 

The rather harsh rule of English law, which denies damages to 
a woman whose character has been assailed, unless she can prove 
special damages, does not obtain in this Colony, and for this slander 
the plaintiff is entitled to damages. If the defendant had expressed 
his regret and had tendered five rupees as damages, I would 
have thought that he had done enough, but he has aggravated 
the cause of action by repeating the defamation in the answer, 
and I think he has made himself liable in at least Rs. 50 damages 
and the costs to which the second plaintiff has been put. 



WiTECBBS, J. — 

This is an action by a father and his daughter to recover damages 
against two defendants for slander. 

I think the father was improperly joined. 

The District Judge has found that the second defendant did 
not utter the words complained of, and has disallowed the action 
against him. We see no reason to disturb that part of the judg- 
ment, which regards a mere question of fact. 

The first defendant admits that, at a private dinner party, he 
excused himself from sitting down at the same table with the first 
plaintiff, for the reason that the latter's daughter had run aWay 
with a Wahumpura man of low caste. 

This statement was made in the presence and hearing of a large 
number of people assembled for the entertainment, and in thQ 
presence of the plaintiffs. 

The second plaintiff was at the time the reputed wife in diga of 
a person of her own caste — Vellala caste. 

It cannot be doubted that this statement was calculated to 
reflect upon the moral character of the second plaintiff and injure 
her in the estimation of society. 

What is contumehous in itself, a^ such language is, presumes 
the animvs et affedtts injuriandi, which is an element of slander. 

The District Judge, however, dismissed the action because the 
plaintiffs had adduced no evidence to show that either of them 
had suffered the smallest damage in consequence of this 
contumely. 

The Roman-Dutch law requires no proof of special damage to 
sustain an action for slander. 

If contumely is published deliberately and with intention to 
offend another, the speaker is liable to be sued for amends. 

There are various degrees of contumely, depending on the person 
of whom, the place where, and the occasion on which, the 
contumelious language is used, to say nothing of the nature of the JiC 
language uttered. 



( 86 ) 

There was no defence by the first defendant, unless the frivolous 
plea of a privileged occasion can be regarded as such. He does 
not pretend that he spoke in play, or in jest, and under the influence 
of anger provoked by the person addressed, or under the 
influence of intoxication. He does not even apologize for what 
he said. He avers that he repeated what had been village talk, 
and. that he believed it to be true. 

This is but an aggravation of his offence. 

I would set aside the judgment against the first defendant and 
adjudge him to pay a stmi of Bs. 50 with costs. 

Bbownb, J. — 
I agree. 



MALHAMI MUHANDIRAM v. JUANISA et cU. 
P. C, Batnapura, 10,804. 

Oemming tuithoiU license — Criminal trespass — Section 247 of the 
Penal Code — Evidence necessary to support charge of criminal 
trespass— Ordinances No. 6 of 1890 atvd No. 10 of 1894. 

Gemming without a license on the bank of a river flowing along 
the property of a private owner is not punishable as criminal 
trespass under section 427 of the Penal Code without proof that 
entry on such land was made with intent to commit an offence 
as defined in section 38 of the Code to intimidate, insult, or annoy' 
any person in possession of such property. 

Unlicensed gemming on lands other than Crown property is 
punishable under Ordinance No. 6 of 1890, amended by Ordinance 
No. 10 of 1894. 

^T^HE complainant charged the defendants with having committed 

■^ criminal trespass on a certain land of which he had the 

leasehold, and theft by opening gem mines therein and stealthily 

removing gems, in breach of sections 433 and 367 of the Penal Code. 

It was proved that the accused had a pit by the edge of the 
river which skirted the land in question, and that water was baled 
from the pit into the river, whence it was contended that the pit 
was in the land, and that the accused working in the pit were guilty 
of criminal trespass. 

The Police Magistrate found accordingly, and sentenced each of 
the accused to pay a fine of Rs. 10, under section 433 of the Penal 
Code. 

On appeal there was no appearance of coimsel for app^lantotT 
respondent. '^' '^^ ^ o 



( 87 ) 
28th May, 1896. Lawbie, A.C.J.— 

Is unlicensed gemming on the sandy and gravel banks of a 
stream a criminal trespass on the property of the owners of the 
ground adjoining the stream ? 

It is so, if gemming be an offence b^b defined in section 38 of 
the Penal Code, or if the entry on the land be done to intimidate, 
insult, or annoy the person in possession of the property. 

There are no facts proved from which an intention to intimidate, 
insult, or annoy can be inferred. 

The meaning of the word " offence " in section 427 of the Penal 
Code is defined in section 38 as denoting a thing punishable in 
Ceylon under (he Penal Code, or a thing punishable under any other 
law u>ith imprisonment for a term of six months or upwards, whether 
vnth or toiihout fine. 

Gemming without a license is not an offence under the Code. 
It is an offence under Ordinance No. 5 of 1890 amended by Ordinance 
No. 10 of 1894. But for a first offence the punishment is not more 
than three months, and hence the entry on a land for the purpose 
of gemming is not criminal trespass. It must be prosecuted and 
punished under Ordinance No. 6 of 1890. 

I set aside the conviction and sentence, and acquit the accused. 



^. 



QUEEN I'. DANIEL. 
D. C, Kegalla, 836. 

Right to appeal for enhancement of punishment — Section 406 of the 
Criminal Procedure Code — Error of law or of fact — Error in 
point of opinion — Right of party injured or other private complain- 
ant to appeal, in a case where the parties are the Crown and the 
abused — Application for revision of proceedings under s, 426 — 
Necessity for notice of revision. 

An appeal for enhancement of punishment is permissible on the 
groimd of error of fact or of law, in cases where both imprisonment 
and fine have been imposed, and in the cases not excepted in 
sections 403, 404, and 405 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 

Error in point of opinion on the part of a Judge as to the degree 
of injury to a complainant, or the degree of criminality of au 
ivccused, or as to the nature or anxount of punishment inflicted, 
does not amount to an error in law. 

Insufficiency of pvinishment could only be an error in law when a 
minimum amount of penalty had been prescribed but had not beegQgjg 
imposed. o 



I S8 ) 

In a criminal prosecution by the Crown, the party injured or other 
private complainant has not the right of appeal provided for in 
section 406 of the Crimincd Procedure Code. 

An application for revision under section 426 will not be enter- 
tained without due notice to the respondent. 

n^HE indictment in this case charged the accused with having 
voluntarily caused grievous hurt to one Mr. Dharmaratna. 

The accused pleaded provocation, and admitted that he struck 
him as hard as he could with the fist on the eye and on the ear 
once or twice, and threw him out of the verandah. The District 
Judge found the accused guilty, and " sentenced him to simple 
" imprisonment till the rising of the Court and to a fine of Rs. 50." 

The Attorney-General appealed on the ground that the judgment 
of the Court below wa« not in conformity with the requirements 
of section 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code, and that the sentence 
imposed on the accused was far too inadequate in view of the 
circumstances of the case. 

Domhorst, for the accused, urged by way of preliminary objection 
that, as inadequacy of sentence was neither an error of law nor 
of fact, the appeal preferred shoidd be rejected. He contended 
that no appeal lay in the present case under sections 404 or 405 of 
the Criminal Procedure Code, and that if the appeal be taken as one 
from a " party " as provided in section 406, it could be entertained 
only on the ground of error of law or fact, but not for mere error 
of opinion on the part of the Judge in estimating the e£Fects of the 
circumstances proved in the case. 

Cooke, C.C, for the Crown, replied on the preliminary objection 
and insisted that the District Judge had committed a dear error 
of law in not acting conformably with section 372 of the Criminal 
Procedure Code. If it be held that an appeal did not lie, it was 
open to the Supreme Court to revise the proceedings under 
section 426. 

Canagaralne, for Mr. Dharmaratna, moved, that if the appeal 
of the Attorney-General should fail on the preliminary objection 
raised by Mr. Domhorst, his client should be allowed to file a 
petition of appeal, as the party really interested in the case. 

Cttr. adv, vnU. 



12th February, 1895. Bbownb, J.— 

The accused was charged with grievous hurt (Penal Code, section 
316), and was found guilty (without its being specifically stated 
of what o£Fence), and sentenced to simple imprisonment until 
the rising of the Coiui) and to pay a fine of Rs. 50. 

When the appeal was called for argument, Mr. Domhorst, for 
accused, submitted that no appeal lay, since the Attorney-General 



( 89 ) 

appealed for the purpose of enhancing the sentence, which the 
Ordinance did not entitle him to do, the case falling within section 
406, and the question of sufficiency of sentence not being an error 
of law or fact. 

Were I to entertain a statement made in argument, without any 
formal verification, on behalf of the would-be appellant Dharma- 
ratna, that the accused was nev^ imprisoned at all, and so conclude, 
it might be I would have to hold, that the matter was one falling 
under section 405 of the Criminal Procedure Code, and I should at 
once reject such appeal offered. Finding, however, that sentences 
of both imprisonment and fine have been passed, I must hold, 
foQowing the decision in 9 8. C, C, 49, that this not being within 
the provisions of sections 403, 404, or 405, an appeal does lie for 
any error of law or fact. 

In appealing for an enhancement of punishment, does the 
Attorney-General appeal for error of fact ? Apparently not, for 
the accused has been convicted of the charge preferr^, and not of 
only some minor offence thereunder, upon the ground that the 
facts proved justified only the lessor conviction. 

Does he appeal for error of law ? He does not complain that 
evidence has been improperly admitted or rejected, or that facts 
have or have not been found, or that these required some other 
verdict, or that the Magistrate had not power to impose the 
sentence which he did. 

He has not shown that anything has been done or permitted of 
which the law, correctly r^arded, did not entirely allow. The 
Magistrate may (in the Attorney-General's judgment) have erred 
in point of opinion as to the degree of injury to the person at 
whose complaint, made outside the District Court, he for Her 
Majesty has prosecuted, or as to the degree of criminality of the 
accused, and in consequence of either, or of natural inclination 
to mercy, Aic, as to the nature or amount of the punishment he 
inflicted^ all or some of which might, when advanced, impel or 
justify this Court, if so empowered as under section 426, to 
entertain an application in revision of conviction and sentence. 
But I hold these are not grounds of law, nor do they disclose that 
any error in law has been made which vitiates either the con- 
viction or sentence. Insufficiency of punishment could only be 
an error in law when a minimum amount of penalty had been 
prescribed but had not been imposed. 

I therefore rule that the appeal of the Attorney-General fails, 
and must be rejected« I was asked in such a contingency to 
revise the proceedings under section 426, but I do not know what 
notice to any such effect has been served upon the respondents [g 



( 90 ) 

(for no copy of notice issued is in the record), and I must decline 
to act as so requested. 

As to the application on behalf of Dharmaratna, that he should 
be held entitled to file a petition of appeal and be heard thereon, 
I hold that he is not such a party as section 406 includes in that 
privilege. He is, as I have said before, only a person who, prior to 
these proceedings, put in motion the prosecution to see that a 
criminal ofFence was punished by informing her of the particulars 
thereof. He might have been not the person injured, but, as often 
happens, a relative of his, or some official, as a police officer, who 
first made complaint to the Police Court. I therefore disallow his 
application. 



FERNANDO t;. WELENIS APPU et ai. 
P, C, KalvJtara, 19,320, 

Witness remaining within hearing of evidence given in Court — Right oj 
Court to reject evidence of such witness, 

A Judge has no right to reject a witness on the ground that he 
remained in Court in contravention of an order to withdraw. 

A FTER the case for the prosecution had been closed, the Police 
-^^^ Magistrate recorded that the accused " did not call any 
'* witnesses for the defence except Saris, who was not in the 
'* witness-shed at the time, but close to the court-house and he^rd 
" all previous evidence. I decline to hear him." 

The accused having been convicted of voluntarily causing hurt 
under section 314 of the Penal Code, they appealed. 

Pereira, for appellant. 

The Supreme Court set aside the judgment of the Court below 
and sent back the case in order that the witnesses for the accused 
might be examined. 

7th May, 1895. Lawrie. A.C.J. — 

In my opinion it was irregular to refuse to allow the examina- 
tion of a witness for the accused merely because it was said that 
the witness had been close to the court-house during the trial, 
and had heard all the previous evidence. Taylor on Evidence, 
§ 1,260, states the law. Digitized by GoOgle 



( 91 ) 

It was settled long ago in Chandler v. Home, 2 M. d: 
Rob., p, 433y that a Judge has no right to reject a witness on the 
ground that he remained in Court in contravention of an order to 
withdraw. 

The olden law of Scotland, which the learned Police Magistrate 
seems to have followed, was corrected by the Act 3 & 4 Vic, 
c. 59, section 3. 

The Ceylon Civil Procedure Code contains a section (174) at 
variance with the English law, but our Criminal Procedure Code 
has no corresponding section. 

Of course, if in the course of examination or cross-examination, 
a witness admits he was in Court during the examination of a 
former witness, it is a point worthy of note ; but the accused 
ought not to be deprived of the right to call witnesses merely 
because they have not been kept out of the court-house. 



RODRIGO V. MEL. 
P. 6\, PdnadurS, 12,529. 

Master atul servant — Ordinance No. 11 of 1865 — Agreement to attend at 
certain places for tvagesfor dragging fishing nets. 

A person who by a written contract undertakes for wages to 
attend at certain places for and in the work of dragging net.s cast 
into the sea is not a servant within the meaning of the Ordinance 
No. 11 of 1865. 

THE facts of the case appear in the judgment of the Supreme 
Court. 

Jayawardene, for appellant. 

Pereira, for respondent. 

19th February, 1895. Withers, J.— 

This is a written contract whereby one person, for certain wages, 
undertakes to attend at certain places for and in the work of 
dragging nets cast into the sea. 

In my opinion such a person as the defendant is not a servant 
within the meaning of the Ordinance No. 11 of 1865 ; and if he is 
not a servant, it goes without saying that he cannot contract himself 
into what I may call the criminal provisions of that Ordinance. I 
do not see how it could be said of this man that he quitted the 
service of his employer, and this is what he has been convicted, ^OOQ 16 



( 92 ) 

Even if this is a contract within the purview of section 7 of the 
Labour Ordinance, it is not alleged and proved by the complainant 
that the defendant neglected or refused to attend at any of the 
places, or at any of the times mentioned in the contract, without 
reasonable cause, or that he was guilty of any wilful disobedience of 
orders that might well be given him during the days in which he 
was required to attend for the dragging of nets. 

Hence, because he is not a servant under the Ordinance, and 
because he has not been proved to have violated his contract in 
any sense appropriate to the contract within the 11th section of 
the Ordinance, I set aside the conviction and acquit the accused. 



QUEEN V. VAIYAPURI. 

D. C, CoUmbo, 1,044. 

Merchandise Marks Ordinance, No. 13 of 1888, s. 3 — Offence thereunder — 
Election by accused to be tried before the District Court — InfonnaHan 
by Attorney 'General — Jurisdiction of District Court to entertain the 
information. 

A District Court has jurisdiction to inquire into and determine 
into an offence punishable under the Merchandise Marks Ordinance, 
section 3, when the accused has elected, at the magisterial inquiry, 
to be tried by the District Court. 

Upon such election, it is competent to the Attorney -General to 
exhibit an information to the District Court for the trial of the 
accused. 

^T^HE information exhibited in the District Court of Colombo by 
•^ the Attorney-General in this case, stated that the accused had 
committed an offence punishable under the Merchandise Marks 
Ordinance (No. 13 of 1888), section 3, sub-section 2, and after 
alleging the particulars of the o£Fence gave the Court to understand 
that " on or about the 4th of July, 1894, on complaint being made 
'' before the Police Court of Colombo in respect of the said o£Fence, 
** and the said Vaiyapuri PiUai then being present before the said 
" Court, and being informed by the said Court of his right to be 
*' tried by the District Court of Colombo, elected to be tried by the 
" said District Court," Ac. 

Summons having been allowed on this information, the accused 
appeared and submitted that the Court had no jurisdiction to 
entertain and inquire into the charge contained in the information, 
and that the Attorney-General had no power to ffle^ such laa 
information. ^ ^'^'^^^ by V^OOgie 



( 93 ) 

The learned (Acting) Distriot Judge (Mr. Joseph Grenier) over- 
ruled these objections, and, after evidence heard, found the accused 
guilty, and sentenced him to pay a fine of Bs. 200 and the costs of 
the prosecution as costs in the first class. 

The accused appealed. 

Batoay for appellant. 

Dcmhorst, for respondent. 

Cur. adv. tmU, 

12th February, 1895. Bbownb, J.— 

A private complainant having instituted a prosecution against 
the appellant before the PoUce Court of Colombo for offences 
under section 3 (1) 6 and d of the Merchandise Marks Ordinance, 
13 of 1888, and the appellant having, on his appearance before the 
Police Court, elected under clause 5 of the same section to be tried 
before the District Court, the Magistrate proceeded to inquire into 
the complaint as a case not triable siunmarily, with the result that 
he discharged the appellant. In appeal this Court {3 8. C, R, 152) 
quashed the proceedings subsequent to the recorded election of 
the respondent, but of course did not indicate what further 
procedure might thereafter be available to the complainant. The 
Attorney-General subsequently filed an information in these 
proceedings in the District Court, and obtained summons against 
the appellant. On his appearing thereto, and being called on to 
plead to the indictment, it was objected on his behalf that the 
Court had no jurisdiction to entertain or inquire into the charge 
in the information, and that the Attorney-General had no power 
to file such information in that Court. 

The learned District Judge, in his very full consideration of 
these questions now raised for the first time, has pointed out that 
the Criminal Procedure Code, in sections 263-4, has contemplated 
that cases shall come before a District Court only in two ways : 
on committal from a Police Court, or by order of transfer from 
some other Court ; that section 8 of that Code gives District Courts 
jurisdiction in criminal matters ** subject to the provisions of the 
Code " ; and that section 13 provides that a District Comi shall 
not take cognizance of any offence as a court of original criminal 
jurisdiction unless there has been such a committal or transfer ; 
and that chapter 20 has empowered the Attorney-General to 
exhibit original information at his pleasure in the Supreme Court 
only, and in the Supreme and District Courts after the discharge 
of an accused by a Police Court under the provisions of chapter 16, 
when he is of opinion that such accused person should not have 
been discharged, and only thereafter. He further remarked jfchat , 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



{ M ) 

" the provisions in Ordinance No. 13 of 1888, section 3 (6), related 
'' to a person charged, and directed he should be put to his election 
*' before the charge is gone into," and said he was inclined to 
consider that section 226 [i.e., section 219 (2) of Ordinance No. 22 
of 1890] should be read therewith or thereinto, and that on the 
accused electing as here to be tried by the District Court, the 
Magistrate should record the necessary preliminary evidence 
whereon the District Court could subsequently proceed, and 
commit him thereto. In view, however, of the order of this Court 
previously made, holding that the Police Magistrate was functus 
officio as soon as election was made by the accused, he assumed he 
had jurisdiction in respect of the information filed, and he tried 
the accused and convicted and sentenced him. 

This is but a very brief pricis of the views expressed with full 
comment and reasoning in some 24 pages of the record. I do not, 
however, recite them more fully, for the reason that I would affirm 
that the District Court has jurisdiction, and the Attorney-General 
in such a case as the present has a right to present his information, 
for a reason which does not appear to have been considered in 
the previous argument. That is, that the District Courts are not 
dependent for their criminal jurisdiction solely upon the enact- 
ment of section 8 of the Criminal Procedure Code, for that, six 
years after such power was given to it, section 66 of the Courts 
Ordinance, in (like section 8 of the Code) giving a District Court 
full power and authority to hear, try, and determine all prosecutions 
and charges instituted and preferred before it against any person 
for any crime committed within its district, did not limit that 
power and authority to be " subject to the provisions of this Code " 
as that section 8 had done. Section 8 enacted, ** shall have, as 
" heretofore, and subject to the provisions of this Code, cognizance 
" of and full power to hear, try, and determine.'* The provisions 
of the Code were to rule the District Coiui; in everything in its 
cognizance of and its power to try and determine all prosecutions. 
Section 66 says nothing of cognizance or subjection to the 
Criminal Procedure Code, but " shall have full power and autho- 
rity : to hear and determine," and makes only a limitation 

in regard to the procedure inside the Court itself that it ^hall be 

** in manner in the Criminal Procedure Code provided." 

The jurisdiction so conferred is not fettered by the provisions of 
section 13 of the Criminal Procedure Code, and a prosecution of 
the character of the present will be permissible so long as it is 
conducted as prescribed by chapter 21 (omitting sections 263-4, 
which are inapplicable). This safeguard however exists, that the 
Attorney-General or his nominee shall conduct the nrosecutiocL 

Digitized byVjOOQlc 



{ 96 ) 

wherein I oonedder is included the framing of the charge or 
information or indictment, for I do not see that under section 261 
it would be competent for any private person to appear and do so. 

Section 4 of the Criminal Procedure Code requires that all 
offences under any such enactment as the Merchandise Marks 
Ordinance shall be inquired into and tried according to the 
provisions of that Code, subject to any enactment for the time 
being in force regulating the manner or place of inquiry into or 
trying such offence. And now that the ruling of this Court has 
made it clear that, as soon as the accused's election of the District 
Court removes the prosecution instantly thither, this section I 
read as meaning in such a matter as the present that the offence 
is to be inquired into and tried under the provisions of chapter 
21 only, it being (with the supplementary chapter 24) the only 
provisions relating to trials by a District Court. 

I therefore hold that the District Court had jurisdiction to 
inquire into and determine the matter of this prosecution. 

I further hold that the accused appellant was rightly convicted. 
I give the same credence as the Court below has given to the 
evidence of the witnesses, and I do not see that the certificate, 
which bears the seal of the Colonial Secretary's Office, and is signed 
** True copy : H. W. Green, for Colonial Secretary," was improperly 
received in evidence under the provisions of section 27 of Ordi- 
nance No. 14 of 1888. I presume, until the contrary is shown, that 
this Assistant to the Colonial Secretary so signed by some authori- 
zation as section 2 of that Ordinance contemplates. 



SARAM v. WEERA. 

P. C, Colombo, 37,639. 

Criminal Procedure Code, chapters X VI. and XIX. — Change of proceeding 
from ifiquiry into trial — Criminal Procedure Code, s. 226 (Ordinance 
No. 22 of 1890, 8, 7) — Right of Police Magistrate to convict upon 
evidence taken in a case which he has no power to try. 

In proceedings taken under chapter XVI. of the Criminal Pro- 
cedure Code, a Police Magistrate has to take and record evidence 
for the prosecution with the view of ascertaining whether there is 
such a primd facie case made out against the accused as could 
justify him in committing the accused for trial to a Superior Court, 
and not to determine his guilt or innocence which is in issue only 
in trials under chapter XIX. 

Where, in the course of proceedings initiated under chapter XVT., 
aMagistrate finds that the facts proved amount to an offence triable 
by him summarily under chapter XIX., the proper course is ^f^P^(^Q]p^ 

igi ize y g 



( 96 ) 

proceedings on the inquiry, frame a fresh charge, and try the case, 
giving the accused notice that he is on his trial, and affording him 
sufHcient time to prepare his defence. 

Section 226 of the Code (e^ amended by Ordinance No. 22 of 
1 890) refers to c€U9es where a Police Magistrate is trying a case over 
which he has jurisdiction, and not to cases where he is not acting 
as Judge, but as cm inquirer. Its import is that, when a Judge is 
trying a case and finds that the charge lead was not correctly framed 
according to the facts which appear in evidence before him, but 
that some other offence over which he has jurisdiction is proved, 
he may convict of that offence. 

Facts which appear in the depositions of witnesses taken, not for 
the purpose of a trial, but for the purpose of em inquiry, camiot be 
said to be proved for the purpose of a conviction. 

r I ijtufi accused in this case was charged at the instance of the 
-*- Superintendent of Police under section 392 of the Penal Code 
with criminal breach of trust as a public servant, in that, while 
acting as storekeeper of the Police Department, he was entrusted 
with a sum of Bs. 100, whereof he misappropriated a sum of 
Rs. 86. On being brought up on a warrant, the Police Magistrate 
explained the charge to the accused, who stated he was not guilty. 
Evidence was taken on a subsequent day and a charge formulated. 
The Police Magistrate then recorded as follows : — 

Accused denies the charge. Mr. Advocate Bawa, for accused, 
addresses the Court on the question of jurisdiction, and the question of 

the innocence of the accused Counsel has quoted a case in 

the Indian Courts, in which a public servemt, who had been entrusted 
with the care of stamps, the property of the Government, with the full 
knowledge and consent of his superior officers, had misappropriated 
those stamps to his own use, was held guilty of criminckl breach of trust 
as a public servemt — em offence punishable under section 392 of the 
Ceylon Penal Code, emd not within the jurisdiction of a Police Court ; 
but in that ce^se it wafi decided that the responsibility for the due cus- 
tody of the stamps hewi been properly delegated. In emother case 
reported in the same book submitted to me, in which responsibility 
had been improperly delegated, it was held that the delinquent could 
not be cheurged with crimineJ breetch of trust e^ a public servemt. It is 
for this ree^son, " that the responsibility delegated to the accused Weera 
hets been most improperly delegated," that I overrule the eurgument 
against my jurisdiction. 

Accused we^ a very subordinate clerk on small pay ; he was book- 
keeper emd storekeeper, emd eks such his duties were to keep books and 
keep stores ; it was no pe^ t of his duty to handle Government moneys, 
and when allowed to do so by his superiors he lay under no responsibility 
to Government for any misappropriation of Government money ; the 
feM!t that his immediate superiors he^i allowed him emd his predecessor 
in office to handle public moneys cemnot affect the propriety of his being 
eJlowed to do so. The proceedings disclose the existence of a good deed 
of laxity in money matters in the office of the Superintendent of Police, 
Western Province, but I cannot allow this laxity to render the accused 
not liable to conviction on the very grave charge of crimineJ breeu^h of 
trust as a public servemt. Regarding the guilt of the Ckccused the 
evidence is cleeur, emd calls for no remarks. 

The Police Magistrate found the accused guilty under section 
391, and sentenced him to three months' rigorous imprioonmeiit. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 07 ) 

On appeal, Batva appeared for him, and DumbleUm, CO., for 1895. 
respondent. Jum 29. 

The Supreme Court quashed the proceedings and sent the case 
back to be investigated as a non-siunmary case. 

19th June, 1895. Bonseb, C.J.— ' 

The proceedings in this case should, in my opinion, be quashed, 
and the case sent back to be dealt with according to law. 

The accused was charged under section 392 of the Penal Code 
with breach of trust as a public servant. He was brought up 
before Mr. W. H. Moor, the Acting Police Magistrate of Colombo, 
on a warrant on this charge. The charge was read and explained 
to him, and then the Magistrate proceeded to deal with the charge. 
Now, that charge was one which the Magistrate had no power to 
try. He could only deal with it under chapter XVI. of the Criminal 
Procedure Code, which lays down the procedure in such cases. 
He has to take and record the evidence for the prosecution with 
the view of ascertaining whether there is such a primd fade case 
made out against the accused as would justify him in committing 
the case for trial before a superior Court. He is, therefore, exercis- 
ing a strictly limited function. It is not his duty to determine 
the guilt or innocence of the accused. That is not in issue in pro- 
ceedings under chapter XVI. of the Criminal Procedure Code. 
And we know by experience that proceedings before a Magistrate, 
as held under that chapter, are conducted in a very different 
way from proceedings held before him on the trial of an offence. 
In the latter case the accused is on his trial, and he or his counsel 
cross-examines the witnesses for the prosecution with a view to 
establishing his innocence. In the former case, the accused and his 
counsel, if well advised, content themselves with watching the case 
to see that no improper evidence is recorded ; but, if they are wise, 
they do not endeavour to break down the evidence of the witnesses 
for the prosecution unless their case is a very clear one. 

In the present case, the accused was brought up on the 3rd of 
Jime, and charged with an offence under section 392, and the 
Magistrate proceeded to record evidence under chapter XVI. 
He pleaded not guilty to this charge under section 392, and the 
case was adjourned to the 5th. On the 5th the witnesses for 
the prosecution are all called, and, at the conclusion of the pro- 
ceedings of that day, the Magistrate records that the accused 
is charged under section 391 of the Penal Code, and that 
the accused denies the charge. Now, section 391 is a section 

Vol. I. 12(54)29 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 98 ) 

1805. which deals with the offence of criminal breach of trust by a 
JwM 19. clerk or servant, and that is an offence over which a Police Court 
BoT^WL^CJ, ^^^ concurrent jurisdiction with District Courts and the Supreme 
Court. No notice, however, appears to have been given to the 
accused that the Magistrate was going to deal with the case 
summarily, and no fresh evidence was called ; but the Magistrate, 
after hearing some remarks from the defendant's counsel, forth- 
with convicts the defendant, not of the offence with which he was 
originally charged, but of a new offence. The proceedings were 
thus suddenly, at their conclusion, changed from an inquiry as to 
whether there was a prima facie case that the accused had been 
guilty of one offence into a trial of the guilt or innocence of the 
accused on an entirely fresh charge of another offence. 

It is said that the Magistrate acted Under section 226 of the Code 
as amended by Ordinance No. 22 of 1890. Of course, if the Code 
says it may be done, — although the result of such a course would 
be exceedingly unfair to the accused, — we are bound to obey the 
law. But in my opinion section 226 does not justify what was 
done in the present case. That section provides that a Magistrate 
" may convict an accused of any offence over which a Police 
'* Court has summary jurisdiction, which, from the facts admitted 
" or proved, he appears to have committed, whatever may be the 
"nature of the complaint or information." My opinion is that* 
this section refers to cases where the Police Magistrate is trying 
a case over which he has jurisdiction, and not to cases where he 
is acting not as Judge, but as an inquirer ; and I am confirmed in 
this view by the heading of the chapter. That section is contained 
in chapter XIX., which is headed, " The trial of cases where a 
" Police Court has power to try summarily." That heading shows 
that the chapter is dealing with trials. Section 226 imports that 
when a Judge is trying a case, and finds that the charge was not 
correctly framed, according to the facts which appear in evidence 
before him, but that some other offence over which he has juris- 
diction is proved, he may convict of that offence. 

It will be noticed that section 226 speaks of facts proved. Now, 
I do not think that facts which appear in the depositions of 
witnesses taken, not for the purpose of a trial, but for the purpose 
of an inquiry into the primd facie guilt of an accused, can be said 
to be proved for the purpose of a conviction. The proper course 
for a Magistrate to adopt in such a case would be to stay proceed- 
ings on the inquiry, frame a fresh charge, and try the case (I was 
about to say de novo, but as there was no trial these words would 
not be appropriate), giving the accused notice that he was now to 
be put on his trial, and affording him time to prepare his defence. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 99 ) 

— such time as would be sufficient, — ^because the accused is not 
there to make his defence, but to have the question decided whether 
there is a primd facie case made out against him — ^for that purpose, 
and no other. 

For these reasons the conviction in this case is quashed, and the 
accnsed remanded to the Police Court to be dealt with according 
tolaw. 



PERERA r. RODRIGO. 
Z>. C, Kandy, 76,122. 

Lease — Specific performance of — Holding over. 

A lessee is not entitled by virtue alone of the title to possession 
passed to him by the lease to maintain an cbction of ejectment against 
a stranger to the lease in respect of lands, of which he, the lessee, 
was never put into possession by his lessor. 

Semble, that where a person is put into possession of land by the 
owner in pursuance of an invalid parol lease for a term of years, he 
cannot be ejected by that owner until his holding, whatever it is, 
has expired, or has been put an end to by a proper notice. 

nnELE plaintiff, by virtue of a deed of lease dated 30th January, 
J- 1878, executed by persons not made parties to the suit, sought 
in his libel to be put and placed in possession of certain lands, 
alleging that defendant was in forcible possession of the same. 
The defendant resisted the action on the ground that he had a 
prior verbal lease from the plaintiff's lessors yet to run for five 
years, and that, having effected material improvements on the 
demised premises, he was entitled to retain possession of them, 
if n# for the full period of the lease, at all events until he was repaid 
a proper compensation for the improvements in question. 

The District Judge gave judgment for plaintiff as prayed. 

On appeal this decree was reversed. 

Van Langenberg, for appellant. 
Dharmaratne, for respondent. 

17th January, 1878. Phbab, C.J.— 

The plaintiff in this case has shown no cause of action against 
the defendant. He has entered into a contract of lease with the 
owner of the lands which are the subject of suit, and has not yet 
obtained from that owner performance of the contract. To obtain 
specific performance he must bring his suit against the person 



1878< 
Jan. 17s 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 100 ) 

1878. with whom he made the contract, not against a stranger to that 
Jan. 17, contract, as the defendant is. And so far as the evidence which has 

T]r"c J ^'^^^ given in the case goes, it would appear that even as against 
the owner of the land the defendant is in rightful possession. He 
appears to be holding over after the expiration of a definite term, 
and as he has been allowed to hold over, he can only be called upon 
to give up possession by the owner after his present indefinite term 
had been duly put an end to by such notice as under the circum- 
stances may be requisite. In other words, as against the owner of 
the land who let him into possession, he does not become a tres- 
passer untU the period of his holding, whatever it be, has elapsed. 
And the plaintiff in this suit does not even represent the owners. 
At best he has got such right of action against the owner as the 
contract of lease gives him. 

The decree which is appealed against is set aside, and the plaintiff's 
suit dismissed with costs. 



^3^ MURUGAPPA CHETTY v. SAMARASEKARA et erf. 

0<*' ^' PAVISTINAHAMI, Claimant. 

D.C.,Negimbo,lJ78. 

Civil Procedure Code, s. 241 — Claim to property seized in execution — Life- 
interest of claimant. 

Where a seizure in execution had been made of certain lands 
under a decree which declared them to be specially bound and 
executable, subject to the life-interest of one D. P. in them, and 
D. P. applied to the District Court that her claim to have the 
seizure released and the property declared not liable to be seized 
and sold in execution be investigated under section 241 of the Civil 
Procedure Code. 

Held, that it was not competent to the District Court to relet the 
claimant to a separate action, but that her claim was one to be 
investigated and determined under sections 241 and 242. 

THIS was an appeal from an order of the District Judge of. 
Negombo upon a claim made by one Pavistinahami before 
the Fiscal to certain lands seized in execution of a decree entered 
in this case against the defendants, declaring that the said lands 
were ** specially bound and executable for the said decree, subject 
** to a life-interest of K. D. Pavistinahami in the first ten mentioned 
" lands." 

The claimant, who was admitted to be in possession of the lands 
at the time of the seizure, submitted to the Court that the mortgage 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 101 ) 

and seizure of the lands were not justifiable under a deed which 1894. 
she brought into Court. She prayed for a release of the seizure, ^""" 
and that the lands be declared not liable to be seized or sold in 
execution during her lifetime. 

The District Judge, relying upon the analogy of section 278 of the 
Indian CSvil Procedure Code and the case of DeefhoUs v. Peters, 
reported in 14 Ind, L, R.y Calcutta Series, 641, held that the question 
of the extent and nature of the power to deal with the property 
conferred on the grantees of the deed produced by the claimant, 
and the effect of the life-interest reserved to her, were not questions 
** responsive to the only tests which the Court is empowered by 
** sections 244 and 245 to apply in such an inquiry, namely, the tests 
•" of possession, and that it is out of place to attempt to determine 

" such questions by such tests The remedy is by 

** separate action." He discharged the application for inquiry into 
the claim, with costs. 

The claimant appealed. 
Domhorst, for claimant appellant. 
WeruU, for respondent (creditor). 
Aserappa, for defendant respondent. 

Our. adv. vtiU. 



2nd October, 1894. Lawbie, A.C.J.— 

I am unable to share in the doubts or to appreciate the difficulties 
of the learned Judge. 

The plaintiff got judgment and applied for and got writ against 
the defendants' property, lands were seized by the Fiscal, then a 
man came forward to claim the lands under seizure as his own, 
denying that they were executable for the debt of the judgment- 
debtor. 

The learned Judge, on the analogy or supposed authority of 
Indian decisions, refused to investigate the claim. The Indian 
Code is, in this matter of seizure in execution, quite different from 
ours, and the decisions quoted by the District Judge seem to me to 
have no value to regulate our procedure of seizure and sale by a 
Fiscal. 

It may be that, if' a Court directs a sale imder section 201, and 
if the person especially nominated by the Court were in course 
of carrying out the Court's special order, there would be no room 
-for a claim by a third party ; indeed, the person nominated by the 
Court would have no jurisdiction to try and determine the ^^^^C^r^(^Q]r> 
of claimants. I look on this as a c€tse of an ordinary seizure : the o 



( 102 ) 

1994. plaintiff himself so treated it. The Code gives a right to those 

who object to a sale in execution to be heard and to have their 

claims adjudicated on. 

The order should be set aside, and the case sent back for 
investigation of the claim. The appellant is entitled to the costs 
of the discussion in the District Court and in appeal. 



WiTHBBS, J. — 

It was argued in the first instance that the order before us is not 
an appealable order, but inasmuch as it discharges the application 
for inquiry into the claim with costs, it finally disposes of the matter, 
and is therefore obnoxious to an appeal. 

As the judgment-creditor took out the ordinary writ against 
property in execution of a decree he must take the consequences. 

By section 241 of the Civil Procedure Code the Court is required, 
in the event of the Fiscal reporting a claim preferred to property 
or an objection offered to the seizure or sale of property which 
has been seized in execution of a decree, to proceed in a summary 
manner to investigate such claim or objection. Into the nature 
of his claim or objection I do not propose to inquire. What a 
claimant must prove to induce the Court to remove the seizure 
or to stay the sale is indicated in the sections following the one 
above referred to. 

I would remit the case for the investigation and determination 
of the claim. 



NUGAPITIYA MUHANDIRAM v. SUDALAYANDI et of. 
1890. 

^My 10. 11. P. C, KigaUa, 13J50. 

Forest Ordinance, 1885 — Ride made under chapter IV, — Clearing land 
for chena cultivaHon — Land at the disposal oj the Crown — Evidence. 

On a charge laid under rule 1 of the rules framed under chapter 
IV. of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1885, that the accused cleared a 
land at the disposal of the Crown without a permit from the Govern- 
ment Agent, it is necessary to prove that the land was cleared for 
chena cultivation, that such land was at the disposal of the Crown, 
and that it was not within a reserved or village forest. 

SembU, per Bonsbr, C. J.— The only intelligible way of interpret- 
ing the expression " land at the disposal of the Grown " in the 
interpretation clause is to read clauses (6), (c), and (d) as cutting 



( 103 ) 

down the generality of the definition given in clause (a), so that the 1805, 

meaning of that expression would appear to be all forest, waste* • 

unoccupied, or uncultivated land, which has not been expressly 
granted away by the Crown (clause b), or in respect of which the 
Grown has not weuved its right by issuing its certificate of no claim 
(clause c), or which has not been registered a temple land (cUuse d). 

THE plaint charged the accused with unlawfully and wilfully, 
and without obtaining the permission of the Government 
Agent of the Province of Sabaragamuwa or of the Assistant Govern- 
ment Agent of Kegalla, clearing or causing to be cleared for chena 
cultivation the land called Galpilleheressa, being a land at the 
disposal of the Crown, and not included in a reserved or village 
forest, in breach of rule 1 of the rules framed under chapter IV. 
of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1885, &c. 

Rule 1 (published in the Gazette of 22nd Ms^rch, 1889) was as 
follows : '" No land at the disposal of the Crown shall be cleared 
" for chena cultivation without a permit from the Grovernment 
" Agent," &c. 

After evidence heard for complainant and the accused, the Police 
Magistrate found both the accused guilty of " clearing a land at 
"the disposal of the Crown, to wit, Galpilleheressa, for chena 
'^cultivation without a permit," &;c., and sentenced them to a fine 
of Rs. 30 and Bs. 5 respectively. 

The accused appealed. 

Bawa, for appellant, contended (1) that rule No. 1, upon which 
the conTiction was foimded, was vUra vires of section 41 (a), for 
while the rule provided against " clearing for chena cultivation," 
the Ordinance empowered the making of rules for only regulating 
or prohibiting the cutting of or setting fire to chenas ; (2) that there 
was no evidence that the land which had been cleared was not in- 
cluded in a reserved or village forest ; and (3) that there was no 
evidence that the appellant had himself committed the offence 
complained of. 

Rdmandthan, 8,-0., for the Crown : The terms of rule 1 
are practically the same as the terms of section 41 (a). *' Clear- 
" ing for chena cultivation " involves the operation of " cutting " 
and *' setting fire " to chenas, and as the Gazette which published 
the rule sets forth that rule 1 and certain other rules following 
it were made under section 41, the words " clearing for 
chena cultivation " should be taken to mean cutting and setting 
fire to the chena named in the plaint. Rule 1 is therefore irUra 
vires. [BoNSEB, C.J. — ^But m the land " at the disposal of the 
'* Crown ? "J Yep, because it is proved that it was forest before theCjOOgle 



( 104 r 

I8d6. accused cut the trees el^nding on the land. It must be admitted 

that no evidence has been laid before the Court that the land in 

question was not included in a reserved or village forest. Mr. 
Justice Withers, in 8,926, Police CJourt, Nuwara Eliya, decided 
on 19th March last (New Law Reports, p, 73), held that such evi- 
dence was necessary, but he allowed the Crown an opportunity to 
supply the deficiency at a further hearing which he ordered. The 
Crown should be given a similar opportunity in the present case. 
[BoNSBB, C.J. — Ought you not also to prove that the land in 
question is one " in respect of which no person has acquired any 
** right by written grant or lease made by or on behalf of the British, 
'* Dutch, or native Governments, and duly registered as required 
" by law " ; or one " in respect of which no person has acquired a 
*' right as against the Crown by the issue to him of any certificate 
'* of no claim by the Crown under Ordinance No. 12 of 1840 or 
" No. 1 of 1844 " ; or one " not registered as temple lands under 
'* Ordinance No. 10 of 1856 ? " These appear to be qualifications of 
the expression *' land at the disposal of the Crown."] The defini- 
tion of that expression ha« not been so construed before. What 
appears as (6), (c), and (d) in the definition clause, and what has just 
been interpreted as qualifications of (a), have always been read as 
different classes of lands, and not as narrowing the purview of (a). 
[BoKSEB, C.J. — Take (d), and the definition would run as follows : 

'' Land at the disposal of the Crown means all land not 

" registered as temple lands under Ordinance No. 10 of 1856." 
Could the Crown claim the house in which you are residing as 
land at the disposal of the Crown, because it was not registered as 
a temple land ? Or take (c), and the definition would run as fol- 
lows : '* Land at the disposal of the Crown means all land 

" in respect of which no person has acquired a right as againUt the 
" Crown by the issue to him of any certificate of no claim by the 
" Crown," Ac. Would this entitle the Crown to claim your resi- 
dence as land at its disposal, because you have not acquired it under 
the certificate mentioned ?] In neither case could the Crown claim 
my residence, as my title to it rests on a Crown grant, which falls 
within (6). The intention of the Legislature was to describe four 
classes of lands as comprehended in the expression " land at the 
*' disposal of the Crown." That intention has been inartistically 
expressed, being open to the reductio ad absurdum interpreta- 
tion suggested. But that difficulty arises only when the clause is 
read too literally. On the other hand, it is impossible to construe 
" (d) " as a qualification or cutting down of " (a) " without adding 
many new words to " {d).'' 

BoNSEB, C. J.— I admit that difficulty. Digitized by CjOOg le 



(' W5 ) 

Ramandthan. — Grammatically, then, the interpretation of the 1895. 
Court is inconclusive in r^ard to the theory that (6), (c), and (d) '^^V ^^• 
are qualifications of (a). By the word " means " the Legislature 
meant " includes," so that the definition would run as follows : 
'* Land at the disposal of the Crown includes the different classes 
" of lands mentioned in (a), (6), (c), and (d)." [Bonsbb, C.J. — It 
has been held that '' includes " signifies '* has the following mean- 
ings in addition to its popular meaning," 13 L.R,, Q.B., 195.] It is 
submitted that ** means " here signifies " includes " in its ordinary 
sense. But is it necessary to decide this question in the present 
case ? If the Court holds that (6), (c), and (d) are qualifications 
of (a), it is submitted that the onus of proving the n^ative facts 
contemplated by (6), (c), and (d) does not lie on the Crown. There 
is evidence on record to show that the first accused ordered the 
clearing of the land. 



11th July, 1895. Bonseb, C.J.— 

In this case the appellants were found guilty of " clearing a land 
*• at the disposal of the Crown, to wit, Galpilleheressa, for chena 
*' cultivation, without a permit from the Government Agent of 
"the Province or the Assistant Agent of the district, in breach 
'* of rule 1 of the rules framed under chapter IV. of Ordinance 
*' No. 10 of 1885, as prescribed by the Government Agent of the 
'* Province and approved by the Governor, with the advice of the 
" Executive Council, published in Gazette No. 4,916 of March 22, 
*' 1889, and thereby committing an offence punishable imder 
'' section 42 of Ordinance No. 10 of 1885," and the first appellant 
was sentenced to x>ay a fine of Bs. 30, or in default to undergo one 
month's simple imprisonment, and the second appellant was fined 
Bs. 5. 

The first appellant is the owner of a tea estate near Undugoda, 
and he has recently cleared some land, on which forest trees 
were growing, which adjoined his estate. The second appellant 
was a contractor whom the first appellant employed to cle€kr the 
land in question. There is no evidence as to the purpose for 
which the land was cleared, except that one of the witnesses for 
the prosecution stated that when he Inspected the land the first . 
accused was opening up a road. It appears from the evidence 
that the accused's land is planted with tea, and one might assume 
that the adjoining land was cleared by him to be used for a similar^ "ooolp 
purpose. As I said before, there is no evidence which points tb o 



( IC6 ) 

1896. the purpose for which the land was cleared, except to be used for 
July 11, a road. Now, what the regulation which he is charged with in* 
BoN8KB,C.J. fringing forbids is ** clearing land at the disposal of the Crown for 
*' chena cultivation'' Therefore, the purpose for which the clearing 
is made is part of the offence. Clearing by itself without a permit 
is not made an offence by any rule ; it is clearing for a particular 
purpose, and that purpose not having been proved here the 
conviction cannot be supported. 

The Solicitor-Greneral, who appeared to support the conviction* 
admitted that it could not be supported owing to another difficulty^ 
and that was, that there was no evidence that the land cleared 
was not within a reserved forest, for if it was within a reserved 
forest the regulations would not apply. But there was another 
difficulty, namely, that it is not proved that this land was land at 
the disposal of the Crown. Section 3 of Ordinance No. 10 of 1885 
defines the expression '' land at the disposal of the Crown " to 
mean all land, and then there is a dash and four clauses, each 
headed by a letter. The Solicitor-General said that the land in 
question came within clause (a) of the definition, as being land 
which, under Ordinance No. 12 of 1840, section 6, was presumed to 
be the property of the Crown until the contrary be proved ; in other 
words, that it was forest, waste, unoccupied, or uncultivated land ; 
and he further contended that these clauses (a), (6), (c), and (d) 
were to be considered independently, and that it was sufficient if 
you found any land that answered the description given in any- 
one of those clauses. But it appears to me that that is an impos- 
sible interpretation of the clauses. Apply that interpretation ta 
clause (d). If that clause is to be read independently, the section 
would read — '' land at the disposal of the Crown " means all 
land not roistered as temple land under Ordinance No. 10 of 1856. 
Now, it is a well-known principle of interpretation that where 
the word '' means " is used in an interpretation Ordinance it signi- 
fies that the word defined is to have that meaning, and no other. 
The result, therefore, would be that, once you found land was not 
registered as temple land, it was for the purpose of that Ordinance 
'' land at the disposal of the Crown." That is an impossible 
interpretation. In the same way take clause (c), and we arrive at an 
equally absurd result if we interpret that independently, for then 
we should have a definition of '' land at the disposal of the Crown " 
as referring to " all land in respect of which no person has 
" acquired a right as against the Crown by the issue to him of a 
" certificate of no claim by the Crown under Ordinance No. 12 of 
** 1840 or No. 1 of 1844." It seems to me that the only way of read- 
ing the interpretation clause, so as to make intelligible sense, is to 



( 107 ) 

read clauses (6), (c), and (d) as cuttmg down the generality of the 18W. 
definition contained in clause (a), so that the meaning would be J^^yU* 
that " land at the disposal of the Crown " means all forest, waste, Bonskb, C.J. 
onoccupied, or uncultivated land, which has not been expressly 
granted away by the Crown (clause 6), or in respect of which the 
Crown has not waived its right by issuing its certificate of non- 
claim (clause c), or which has not been registered a temple land 
(clause d). But it is not necessary to decide the meaning of '' land 
" at the disposal of the Crown " in this case. I have expressed my 
present opinion of its meaning, but I am open to re-consider my 
opinion at any time on further argument. 

The Solicitor-General asked that the case may be sent back for 
further evidence. The case stands thus. The defendant claims to 
be the owner of this land, and he produced a conveyance of the 
land to himself made just before the clearing operation. There 
was also some evidence that the land or a portion of it had been 
cultivated in years gone by. The evidence as to the ownership of 
the land called on behalf of the prosecution was of the vaguest 
nature, merely consisting of an assertion by a number of witnesses 
that the land was Crown land. Having regard to all the circum- 
stances of the case and to the fact that, if the defendant has been 
acting illegally, the Crown has its civil remedy, I do not think it 
proper to send the case back as the Solicitor-General asks may be 
done, and I therefore quash the conviction and acquit the accused. 

Accused acquitted. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



18M. 



( 108 ) 

QUEEN V. SUSE TISSERA et ai, 

D, C, Chilaw (Criminal), 2,459. 

Tried of criminal case — Irregular reception of evidence — Consent of parties. 

In a criminal case it is irregular to import into it and consider as 
evidence the evidence taken and recorded in another case, though 
the complainants therein were the accused in the former case. 

Consent thereto, on the part of the parties to the counter-ccises, 
will not avail to render irregular proceedings regular. 

THIS was a case in which seven persons were indicted for 
rioting, and three of them for voluntarily causing hurt. 
After the evidence for the prosecution and the statements of the 
accused, there followed in the record " for defence '* the evidence 
of five witnesses on oath, two of whom appeared to be persons 
who were on their trial in this case. 

On appeal against a conviction, his lordship the Chief Ju£tice 
inquired under what circumstances the two accused gave their 
evidence for themselves on oath. 

Domhorat, for the accused, and Rdmandthany S.-O,, for the Crown, 
agreed that a reference should be made to the District Judge. 
His reply to the Registrar was as follows : — 

With reference to your letter No. 299 of the 6th instant, I have the 
honour to inform you that the accuseds were prosecutors in counter- 
ccbse No. 2,460, and that they desired to base their defence on the 
evidence for the prosecutions therein recorded. I aocordin^y took 
steps to have that evidence recorded again for the evidence in the 
present proceedings, deeming it just that the gist of the two counter - 
chcff ges should be fully set out in one record. 

The case was set down for argument, and the same counsel 
appeared. 

1st July, 1895. BoNSEB, C.J., after stating the facts of the case 
as given above, said : — 

The Acting District Judge (Mr. Thorbum) says he took steps 
to have the evidence of the accused again recorded for the defence 
in the present proceedings. As far as I understand, the steps 
consisted of having the evidence in the other record copied in this 
record. It may be said that the accused were not prejudiced by 
this proceeding, but this Court has always held that it is of the 
greatest importance that the proceedings, especially criminal 
proceedings, should be conducted regularly and according to law, 
and that consent will not avail to render irregular proceedings 
regular. 

I think that the proper order to make will be to quash the 
conviction and remit the case to be re-tried. 

Ordered accordingly. 



( 109 ) 



CAYLEY, QA.^ v. KERR. 1878. 

Sepi. 17. 
D. C, Colombo, 1,629. 

Shipping — Liability of moHerfor nan-delivery of goods received on hoard — 
Bill of lading unauthorized by master — Receipt of goods by chief 
officer as part of ship's cargo — Implied contract between master and 
consignor — Action by consigns — Evidence. 

The master of a ship has the whole conduct and management of 
the ship and everything on board in his charge and custody. 

If be is not himself the owner of the ship, he has this conduct, 
management, and custody as agent of the owner. 

The chief mate of the ship is the master 'shand or servant to receive 
on board for him goods into his custody, but is not generally 
authorized to bind him by special promises. 

Where, in a suit brought against the master of a ship for recovery 
of damages consequent upon non-delivery of goods received on 
board by his chief mate, it was proved that G. H. S. &, Co., 
professing to act for the master (but without due authority), 
acknowledged in a bill of lading that C. A. had shipped certain 
goods to be delivered at the port of Colombo unto O. A., and it 
appeared that the chief mate of the ship had received the goods in 
question on behalf of the master from a Dock Company in London 
without instructions e^ to their destination, or to whom they 
were to be delivered in Colombo, — 

HMy that the master was not liable to O. A. on the bill of lading, 
or upon the implied contract created by the chief mate's acceptance 
of the goods on board, in the absence of proof that the Dock 
Company had contracted on behalf of O. A. 

T TTR Queen's Advocate (the Hon. Mr. Cayley), by his informa- 
tion, gave the Court to understand that the defendant 
above-named, being master of the ss. Eldorado, received on board 
in London on 28th February, 1877, an iron girder of the value 
of Rs. 835 belonging to the Government of Ceylon in good order 
and condition, and agreed to deliver it in like good order and 
condition (certain perils and casualties only excepted) to the Govern- 
ment of Ceylon or their assigns in Colombo ; that the said girder 
was duly delivered to and received by the defendant in good order 
and condition, and the delivery of the same in Colombo to the 
Government of Ceylon or their assigns in like good order and 
condition was not prevented by any of the perils or casualties 
aforesaid ; and all conditions were fulfilled, &c., to entitle the said 
Government of Ceylon to have the said girder delivered to them at 
Colombo, and yet it was not so delivered, but was wholly lost to them 
to the damage of Rs. 835. The plaintiff prayed for such damages. 

Though no mention was made in the information of a bill of 
lading, the defendant in his answer denied that he " signed the 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 110 ) 

'' bill of lading in the libel declared upon/' and said, by way of 
demurrer, that '* the plaintiff cannot have and maintain this action 
" against him." The defendant further said that, if the defendant 
and his servants were liable at all upon the bill of lading, they 
were liable only for the safe carriage of the said goods till they 
should be placed in the tackles of the vessel and delivered there- 
from, and that the defendant was not responsible for the reception 
into the cargo boat of the goods in question, which were effected at 
the risk of the plaintiff, and that the loss in the libel allied ooourred 
after the girder left the tackles of the vessel, and that th^^fore 
the defendant was not liable. He further pleaded that under the 
exception in the said bill of lading contained, he was exempted 
from all liability in respect of loss or damage occasioned by the 
act of Grod or the perils and dangers and accidents of the sea, and 
that the loss of the said girder was occasioned by such perils, 
dangers, and accidents, and by the carelessness and negligence 
of the plaintiff's servants. 

After argument had on the demurrer, the defendant was allowed 
to amend his answer by adding a denial that he received or agreed 
to deliver the girder as set forth in the information, and the parties 
proceeded to trial. 

The bill of lading acknowledged that the Crown Agents for the 
Colonies had shipped in good order and condition certain goods, 
including the girder which was the subject of dispute in the 
present case, &;c., '' to be delivered, subject to the conditions and 
" exceptions hereinafter mentioned, in the like good order and 
" condition from the ship's tackles [where the ship's responsibility 

'' shall cease] at the port of Colombo unto the Officer Adminis- 

" tering the Government of Ceylon, &c. In witness whereof the 

** master of the said ship has signed three bills of lading 

** For the master, Gellatty, Hankey, Sewell & Co., per P. MacSewell, 
" Agents." 

It appeared in evidence that the defendant did not expressly 
authorize Gellatty, Hankey, Sewell & Co., or the ship's agents, to 
bind him by their signature to a bill of lading executed in England, 
but that the chief officer of the Eldorado, whose duty it was to 
receive cargo on board, had received the goods in question on behalf 
of the master, and that the girder slipped from the sling while being 
hoisted over the ship's side and fell into the cargo boat slantingly, 
and rolled out of it into the sea owing to a heavy swell. 

The learned District Judge found that there was no evidence 
to connect the defendant with the bill of lading, and that there 
was no written document of any kind between the parties. He 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 111 ) 

held that there was an impUed agreement on the part of the 
chief officer acting for and in behalf of the master to deUver to 
the plaintiff the girder actually received by bim as cargo for freight, 
and that though the girder fell into the boat " clear of the ship's 
** tackle," it was not such a delivery as to enable the plaintiff in 
the circumstances of the case to receive it, and that the loss con- 
sequent upon such impracticable delivery should be borne by the 
defendant, especially as there was no proof that the plaintiff's 
tSOTvants were either careless or n^ligent. He also found that 
tiie loss was not occasioned by the dangers and perils of the sea, 
because though there was a pretty good swell on, which caused 
the cargo boat into which the girder had fallen to partially capsize, 
yet the loss of the girder was due simply to its slipping from the 
slings from want of care either in securing it to the slings or in 
lowering it. He accordingly gave judgment for plaintiff as claimed. 

On appeal by defendant, Layard appeared for him. 

R. H. Morgan, for plaintiff respondent. 

Cur, adv, wU. 



17th September, 1878. Phbab, C.J.— 

This action is brought on behalf of the Crown against the 
defendant, Kerr, who is described in the information or libel as 
master of the steamship Eldorado. 

The information states that the defendant received on board 
his steamer in London on the 28th February, 1877, certain goods 
belonging to the Grovemment of Ceylon, to wit, an iron girder 
marked C A £i of the value of Rs. 836 '73, in good order and 
condition, and did promise and agree to deliver the said iron girder 
in like good order and condition (certain perils and casualties only 
excepted) to the Government of Ceylon or their assigns in Colombo. 
And it goes on to complain that, although all things had happened 
to entitle the Gk)vernment of Ceylon to have the said iron girder 
delivered to them at Colombo in good order and condition, yet 
the said iron girder was not so delivered, but was wholly lost to 
the Gk>vemment. And the plaintiff claimed as damages Rs. 835 * 73. 

It is not a Uttle remarkable that this information omits to state 
to whom the defendant's promise, which is the ground of suit, 
was made. And it can hardly be assumed that the omission was 
aooidental, because the whole gist of the matter in issue between 
the parties lies at this point. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 112 ) 

1878. The answer of the defendant, as at first filed, was no answer at 

FemajbTc J ^^' ^^ assumed that the contract or promise relied npon by the 

plaintiff was contained in an unmentioned bill of lading, and then 

proceeded both to demur and also to deny all liability under this 

imaginary bill of lading. 

It is much to be deplored that such an example as this of loose 
and inaccurate pleading is to be found constituting the original 
structure of a not unimportant mercantile suit in the principal 
District Court of this Colony. 

At the trial ' the answer was amended by the addition of the 
traverse : '' The defendant denies that he received, or promised, 
" or agreed to deliver the goods in the libel mentioned as in. the 
*' libel alleged." And I suppose it was taken as understood that 
the promisee of this promise set out in the information was intended 
by the person who drew the information to be the plaintiff. 

It is conceded on the part of the plaintiff that this promise was 
not put into writing, and that it was not actually expressed by 
the defendant in any other way. The case of the plaintiff is, that 
it is to be inferred or implied from the facts which occurred in 
reference to the shipment of the girder. 

These facts, so far as they are material, seem to be that the 
defendant was master of the ss. Eldorado when she was in the course 
of being loaded in the docks of some unnamed Dock Company in 
London, probably in August, 1877 ; and that the girder was then 
and there received on board the vessel by the chief mate in the 
manner described by him as follows : — 

It was my duty as chief mate to receive the c€brgo on board. In the 
course of my duty I received goods shipped on behalf of the Crown 
Agents to be cargo on the voyage in question for freight ; and among 
these goods I received the girder in question, cbcting on behalf of the 
master. 

To the Court he said : — 

It is almost invariable that the chief mates receive the cargo, acting 
in so doing on behalf of the masters of ships. 

On cross-examination he said : — 

The girder came to the ship in a lighter, and as a rule the Dock 
Company at London receive the greater part of the cargo and get it put 
on board. The Dock Company sends a clerk on board, but only to 
keep a tally of what the Company puts, and the chief mate receives, on 
board. I had no communication with the defendan^i in regard to tHe 
girder, nor did he ask me to take it on board. I gave a receipt to tlie 
Dock Company for the cargo they delivered to me. I tvax certain of tlxis. 

The master himself, when examined as a party not on oath» 
said: — 

Before sailing I knew from the ship's owner's agents in London that 
there were Gk>vernment goods on board shipped on behalf of the Crown. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 113 ) 

Agents, and to be delivered to the Government here. It was not tiU the 1 878. 
day of the accident to the girder in question that I knew that particular 
article had been on board. ' 



This is all the evidence in the case bearing on the issue between 
the parties ; and it is unfortunate that it should be so indefinite 
as it is. 

When the chief mate says, " I received the girder acting on 

'* behalf of the master/' adding the explanation, '' it is almost 

"' invariable that chief mates receive the cargo, acting in so 

'' doing on behalf of the masters of ships," I do not understand 

him to mean that he had any special agency authority to bind the 

defendant. On the contrary, I understand him simply to convey : 

" I only acted in this matter for the defendant, as it is '' the duty 

of all chief mates to act for their respective masters." The master 

has the whole conduct and management of the ship, and everything 

on board is in his charge and custody. If he ia not himself the sole 

owner of the ship, then he has this conduct, mangement, and 

custody as agent of the owner or collective owners. The chief mate 

is thus the master's hand or servant to receive for him goods into 

his custody on board the ship, but is not generally authorized to 

bind him by special promises. In the present case the utmost that 

can be gathered from the evidence is, as it seems to us, that the 

girder came into the custody of the defendant on board the Eldorado^ 

in some docks in London, through the hands of the chief officer of 

the ship, to be carried probably to, and to be delivered over the 

ship's side to somebody at, Colombo. How its destination was 

originally made known does not appear ; and to whom the effort 

to deliver at Colombo, which the mate describes was made, is not 

disclosed. All that can be legitimately inferred from these facts is, 

I think, a promise by the defendant to the person from whom the 

girder was in fact received on board to carry it and to deliver it, in 

like condition as it was received, to some consignee at Colombo. If 

we assume that the plaintiff was that consignee, still it seems 

tolerably clear that the person from whom the girder was actually 

received, and to whom therefore in the absence of anything expressed 

on the point the implied promise was primarily made, was the Dock 

Company, whoever this may be. Possibly, as the chief mate 

himself seems to have thought, the Company acted in the matter 

of putting the goods on board for the Crown Agents, and so third 

hand (so to speak) for the plaintiff in this suit. In other words, 

it may be the case that the Crown is entitled to claim the 

benefit, as principal of the implied promise, which seems from 

the facts to have been made by the defendant to the Dock 

Vol. I. 12(64)29 y GoOgle 



( lU ) 

1878. Company, by showing that the Dock Company made the contract 

P ^ J on its behalf. But nothing of the kind has been attempted. And 

'it seems to us on the whole that the plaintifif has quite failed to 

prove that the defendant ever made with him, the plaintiff, the 

promise or contract of carriage on which the information is baaed. 

With this view of the case, we think the decree of the District Court 
is wrong, and ought to be set aside, and that the plaintiff's suit 
ought to be dismissed. 



1895. SITHAMBARAPPILLAI v. VINASITAMBY et al. 

June 18 and 
July 8. D. C, Jaffna, 24,69L 

Rei vindicatio — Alternative decree for delivery of articles or payment of 
their vaitie — Action of detinue — Civil Procedure Code, as. 191, 320, 
and 321. 

Where, in an action raised for specific delivery of certain articles 
wrongfully detained, or for payment of their value, defendant 
admitted possession of some of the articles and- claimed a certain 
sum of money from the plaintiff on a separate accoimt, and the 
Court decreed that defendant do return to the plaintiff the articles 
admitted by him, or pay plaintiff their value, and that defendant 
do further pay plaintiff Rs. 25* 50, being the difference between the 
value of certain articles claimed by plaintiff and the amount found 
to be due by plaintiff to defendant — 

Held, that such a decree was luiworkable and iiTegular. 

Held, also, that in an action rei vindicatio for recovery of specific 
movable property, an alternative decree for payment of its v^ue 
is bad. 

The English action of detinue is inconsistent with sections 320 and 
321 of the Civil Procedure Code and section 191 does not authorize 
the alternative form of decree entered. 

r 1 1HE plaintiff complained that certain jewels and other goods 
-L belonging to the estate of his deceased wife, specifically 
described and valued in the schedule annexed to the plaint, were 
wrongfully detained by the defendants, and he prayed that " the 
" defendants be decreed to restore and deliver to the plaintiff, as 
" administrator of his deceased wife, the several jewellery, goods, 
" and chattels declared in the schedule marked A, or to pay t^e 
"[plaintiff, as such administrator, the sum of Rs. 985 if such 
" possession cannot be had." 

The defendants admitted plaintiff's right to six out of the nineteen 
jewels named in the plaint, and claimed payment of Rs. 165, being 
medical and funeral expenses they had incuned on account of the 
deceased. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 115 ) 

The District Judge found that plaintiff was entitled to receive 1896. 
not only the six articles admitted by the defendants, but three ""^^ 
others also, which latter were valued at Rs. 25*50. He further 
found that defendants had made good their claim for funeral expenses 
for Rs. 49*46, but not for medical exx)enses. 

Plaintiff appealed. 

Sampayo (with him Pereira and Sendthi Raja), for appellant. 

Bdmandthan, 8.-G, (with him Domhorst and Batva), for defendants 
respondent. ^ 

The case was argued on the merits on 18th June, 1895, and 
judgment reserved. 

On a subsequent day their Lordships desired to hear counsel on 
the form of the decree entered by the District Judge, which ran as 
follows : — 

It is decreed that the defendants do return to the plaintiff the follow- 
ing articles described in plaintiff's list A, and which defendants admit 
they are in possession of, viz., article No. 1, t61i, worth Rs. 234 ; article 

No. 3, a pair of thddu, worth Rs 50, &c or pay plaintiff the value 

of each such article. 

It is also decreed that the defendants do pay to plaintiff Rs. 26* 50, 
the difference between the value of articles Nos. 2, 6, and 8 described in 
the plaintiffs list A, and Rs. 49* 46 the funeral expenses incun*ed by the 
defendants. 

Parties will bear their own costs. 

BoNSEB, C.J. — ^What authority is there for an alternative decree 
for specific delivery of the articles named, or payment of their value, 
in an action like the present, which is rei vindicatio ? Such a decree 
appears to be inconsistent with sections 320-322 of the Civil 
Procedure Code. 

Sampayo referred to section 191 of the Ceylon Civil Procedure 
Code and 208 of the Indian Procedure Code. 

BoNSEB, C.J. — ^But there is no provision in our Code to give effect 
to section 191 , whereas in the Indian Code there is provision to give 
effect to section 208. It seems to me that section 191 and sections 
320-322 of our Code are inconsistent, and that section 191 has been 
inserted inadvertently. 

Rdmandthan.^— The words of section 191 are imperative : " when 
" the action is for movable -property, if the decree be for the delivery 
" of such property, it shall also state the amount of money to be 
" paid as an alternative, if delivery cannot be had." Plaintiff 
prayed for such a decree, and the District Judge decreed accordingly. 
Our Courts have long been used to such alternative decrees in cases 
of detinue. In D. C, Mdtara, 33,573, decided on the 24th February, 
1885, BimNsrDB, C.J., recognized such decrees. So Withebs, J., 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 116 ) 

1896. in C. B., AvisdvMa, 4,116, Civil Minutes, 4ih December, 1,894. The 
JiOy^. Qyii Procedure Code, section 191, simply conserved the law in 
existence at the time the Code was enacted. [Bonsbb, C.J. — But, 
how will you give effect to such a decree in view of sections 320- 
322 ?] If the alternative decree appears on the face of the writ, 
the Fiscal wiU not enforce specific delivery in the event of the 
execution-debtor refusing to deliver, but wiU enforce the decree for 
the value of the articles as a money decree. By this means section 
191 may be worked harmoniously with sections 320-322. 

Cur, adv. vuU. 

8th July, 1895. Bonseb, C.J.— 

We had this case placed in the paper for fiuther argument with 
regard to the form of the decree, and after hearing the Solicitor- 
General and Mr. Sampayo, I am of opinion that this decree must 
be amended by inserting the three articles of jewellery, Nos. 2, 6, 
and 8, in the plaintiff's list amongst the things to be given up, and 
also by ordering the plaintiff to pay the defendant the amount 
found due for funeral expenses. The Judge has, for what reason 
I know not, assumed that the defendant will not give up these 
three articles, and has set off their value against the funeral 
expenses, giving judgment only for the balance. That is an unwork- 
able form of decree, because, if the Fiscal seizes the articles or the 
defendant gives them up, then there is no order on the plaintiff to 
pay the amount which the Court has found to be due to the 
defendants on account of the funeral expenses. Moreover, the 
words *' or pay the plaintiff the value of each article " must be 
struck out, for this is an action for the recovery of specific movable 
property, and sections 320 and 321 of the Civil Procedure Code 
lay down clearly what is to be done under such a decree. A difficulty 
has been raised by the provision of section 191 of the Civil Procedure 
Code that " when the action is for movable property, if the decree 
** be for the delivery of such property, it shaU also state the amount 
" of money to be paid as an alternative, if delivery cannot be had," 
which is apparently inconsistent with the provisions of sections 320 
and 321, but, in my opinion, whatever section 191 means, it does 
not authorize such a decree as was made in this case. The decree 
foUows the form of judgment in the old English action of detinue, 
which gave the person detaining the goods the option of giving 
them up or keeping them on paying their value. That was a 
very imperfect form of relief, and it was found necessary to 
amend it subsequently by the Common Law Procediire Act. It was 
suggested by the Solicitor-General that the effect of section 191 
is to recognize and approve the introduction into the 
colony of the English action of detinue ; but the words 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 117 ) 
of that section are quite insufficient for that purpose : it does not 1^95. 
say that the decree is to state the amount ol money which is Bon8eb,C.J. 
to be paid as an alternative if the defendant declines to give 
up the things and wishes to keep them. It is the amount to be 
paid if delivery cannot be had, i.e., if the Fiscal under his warrant 
is unable to get the things back, if they have gone out of his 
jurisdiction, or have ceased to exist, or there is any other equaUy 
valid reason. These words lend no colour to the suggestion that the 
defendant is at liberty to say, " I will keep the things, and you 
" cannot take them from me if I submit to pay the amount found 
" due." So, whatever be the effect of section 191, it, in my opinion, 
does not justify the decree made in this case. 

The decree should be amended in the way I have pointed out, 
leaving it to be executed in the manner pointed out by sections 320, 
321, and 322 of the Gvil Procedure Code. 

At present it is unnecessary to determine what is the effect of the 
valuation ordered to be made under section 191. li section 191 
is inconsistent with section 322, the latter is later, and must govern. 
But that question will only arise when the decree is executed, and 
the delivery of the goods cannot be effected. 

Bbowi^e, A.J., agreed. 

[See Sheik Alt v, Carimjee Jafferjee, reported below.] 



SHEIK ALI V. CARIMJEE JAFFERJEE. 1895. 

June 26 and 
D. C, Colombo, 4,850. July 9. 

Rei vindicatio— Form of decree — Detinue — Civil Procedure Code, as. 191, 

320^322. 

Though in an action of detinue decree for delivery of the articles 
claimed or payment of their value is admissible, yet such an alter- 
native decree is not regular in an action rei vindicatio, the question 
of compensation arising only when it is ascertained that the pro- 
perty could not be restored, and the amount of compensation being 
dependent on the conduct of the defendant. 

Per BoNSEB, C.J. — Sections 320-322 of the Civil Procedure Code 
seem to be in accordance with the Roman -Dutch Law and practice, 
and section 191 should be disregarded as being inconsistent with 
the later portions of the Code. 

SithambarappiUai v. Vinaaitamby {ante, page 114) followed. 



I 



N this action plaintiff prayed that the defendant may be ordered 
to deliver to him three cases of tortoise-sheUs belonging to the 
plaintiff and wrongfully detained by the defendant, or to pay to the 
plaintiff the value thereof. He prayed also for damages, pgi^j^g^ ^y CjOOqIc 






( 118 ) 

1895. Defendant claimed the goods as his own, but the District Judge 

entered a decree for plaintiff for the return of the causes, " and in 
" default of delivery the defendant do pay to the plaintiff the value 
" thereof, namely, the sum of Rs. 9,000," and Rs. 900 as damages. 

On appeal, Layard, A.-O. (with him Dornhorst, Morgan, Dumbleton, 
and Van Langenberg), appeared for the defendant appellant. 

Rdmandthany 8.-0, (with him Sampayo and Sendthi Raja), for 
plaintiff respondent. 

The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the Court below on 
the merits, but amended the decree by striking out the words '' and 
" in deafult of delivery the defendant do pay to the plaintiff the 
" value thereof, namely, the sum of Rs. 9,000." 



Cur, adv. vidt. 



9th July, 1895. Bonsbr, C.J.— 

The plaintiff is entitled to a decree for the delivery up of these 
goods. 

I observe that the decree, after ordering the delivery of the three 
chests, proceeds thus : " and in default of delivery the defendant do 
" pay to the plaintiff the value thereof, namely, the simi of Rs. 9,000." 
As we held yesterday in the Jaffna jewel case {SitluimbarappiUai v. 
Vinasitamby, reported ante, p. 114), this is not a correct form of 
decree, for it gives the defendant the option of delivering the goods 
or paying their value. This is in accordance with the English 
practice in actions of detinue, but it does not appear to be proper 
in an action rei vindicatio. The object of that action is to recover 
the specific property. Sections 320-322 of the Civil Procedure 
Code show how a decree for a specific movable is to be executed. 
The Court will issue on the plaintiff's application a writ in form 
No. 62 in the second schedule. Armed with this writ the Fiscal is 
to seize the movable if the judgment-debtor does not deliver it up 
on demand. If the Fiscal is unable to execute this writ he makes 
a return to the Court accordingly, and then the Court, on the appli- 
cation of the plaintiff, will order a second writ to issue for seizure 
and sale of the judgment-debtor's property, or a warrant of arrest 
of his body, or both. The amount of money for which the second 
writ is to issue is to be '' the amount of pecuniary loss, as nearly as 
** the Court can estimate it, which is occasioned to the judgment- 
'* creditor by reason of the judgment-debtor's default in making 
delivery, and which the Court shaU award by way of compensation 
" to the judgment-creditor by the order directing the writ to issue/' 

It will be seen that this gives no option to the judgment-debtor 
to retain the goods on paying the value. The Fiscal is to do his 
best to obtain delivery of the goods, and it is only in the event of 



•«•> 



( 119 ) 
his being unable to obtain such delivery that compensation is to 1895, 
be awarded to the plaintifi, and this compensation is not to be bonsbb C J, 
awarded by the decree, but by the order which directs the second 
writ to issue. 

This procedure is in accordance with the Roman-Dutch practice 
(VoetVL, 1,30-34). 

A difficulty is raised, however, by section 191 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, which provides that " when the action is for 
** movable property, if the decree be for the delivery of such property 
" it shall also state the amount of money to be paid as an alternative 
" if dehvery cannot be had." But the words " if delivery cannot 
" be had " do not afford any foundation for such a decree as was 
made in the present case. They cannot be read as though they 
were " if the defendant declines to give up the property." 

The explanation is probably this : section 191 is taken bodily 
from the Indian Civil Procedure Code, being there section 208, 
whereas sections 320-322 have no counterpart in the Indian Code. 

Even according to the English practice there should have been a 
finding as to the value of each chest. For the defendant might have 
made away with one of them and be willing to give up the others. 
But I am inclined to think that section 191 must be disregarded as 
being inconsistent with the later portions of the Ordinance, and 
inapplicable to an action rei vindication 

The procedure laid down in sections 320-322 seems to be in 
accordance with the Roman-Dutch Law and practice, according to 
which the question of compensation would only be assessed after 
it had been ascertained that the property could not be restored. 
Verum si ex adverao rei restittiendie fdcidtatem revs rum habeat mden- 
dum an dolo ac ctdpd ejus an casu id corUigerit (Voet VI., 1, 32). 
The amount of compensation varied according to the conduct of 
the defendant, for, as Voet goes on to state, if the defendant had 
ceased to possess dolOy he must pay the value sworn to by the 
plaintiff ; whereas if he was guilty only of cvlpd he paid the actual 
value, not the value ex affectione vindicanlis. If the loss were 
accidental in some cases he would not be liable to make good the 
value. 

The decree therefore should be varied by striking out the words 
to which I have referred. 

Form No. 62 gives no direction as to levying the costs of the action, 
but there is no reason why a separate writ should not be issued for 
the damages and costs, together with the writ for delivery. 



Bbownb, A.J., concurred. ^ 

Digitized by 



Google 



/ 



( 120 ) 

1889. ANTHO PULLE v. CHRISTOFFEL PULLE. 

Aug%i8t 16, 

D. a, Colambo, 444. 

Trustee and cestui que trust — Pret/criptum — Ordinance No. 22 of 1871. 

A trustee receiving money on behalf of his cestui qvs trust cannot 
set up a plea of prescription in bar of the claim of such cestiU que 
trust. 

^T^HE plaintiff, as executor of the last will and testament of one 
-^ Lucia Ferdano, deceased, sought to recover from the defend- 
ant, as trustee of the said Lucia Ferdano, a certain sum of money, 
aUeging in paragraph 11 of his libel that the defendant had on the 
31st October, 1881, filed a final account in testamentary suit 
No. 3,541 of the District Court of Colombo, wherein he declared 
that he held in his hands in trust for the said Lucia Ferdano a 
balance sum of Rs. 8,430 ; in paragraph 12, that he did not pay 
this amount to her during her lifetime or to her executor, the 
plaintiff ; in paragraph 14, that he held the said amount in trust 
for the estate of the said Lucia Ferdano ; and in paragraph 15, that 
the defendant promised to pay the plaintiff the said sum with 
interest, but failed to do so. 

The facts of the case in detail are set forth in the judgment of 
Mr. Justice Clarence. 

Defendant pleaded, inter alia, that the cause of action, if any, 
alleged in paragraph 11 of the libel, and in paragraph 15 thereof, 
if the alleged promise be in writing, did not accrue within six years 
before the commencement of this suit (filed on 24th September, 
1888) ; and the cause of action, if any, alleged in paragraphs 12 
and 14 of the hbel and in paragraph 15 thereof, if the alleged 
promise be verbal and a cause of action, if any, for moneys had and 
received to the use either of the plaintiff's testatrix or the plaintiff, 
did not accrue within three years before the commencement of this 
suit. 

The District Judge upheld the plea of prescription and dismissed 
plaintiff's action. 

On appeal, Domhorst {Wendt with him) for appeUant. 

Layard, 8.-0. {Fisher with him) for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

16th August, 1889. Clarence, J. — 

In 1868 Anthony Jury and his wife Lucia made a joint will, the 
provisions of which, so far as is now material, were as follows : — 
They directed that all their property, movable and immovable, 
should be under the ** power and control of the survivor for life, 
*' and that he or she should possess and enjoy the same with all the 
** issues and rents and profits thereof." The 14th jclause of the will 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



'^ 



( 121 ) 

further directed that the rents and profits of certain properties therein 1 889. 
mentioned should be " collected and recovered " by the testator's (^^^"^^^ j^ 
brother's two sons, Miguel Jury and the defendant, and paid to the 
testatrix monthly, and the will reserved to her a power, which she 
never exercised, of appointing some one else in their room in the 
event of their neglecting their duties. The will fmlher appointed 
three executors, viz., plaintiff, defendant, and Miguel Jury. The 
testator died in 1869 leaving the testatrix surviving him, and the 
will was proved by the three executors. Miguel Jury died in 1872. 
The testatrix Lucia died in 1873, leaving wUl by which she gave all 
her property to the plaintiff and appointed him sole executor. 
Plaintiff delayed until 1888, and then obtained probate of the will. 

He now sues the defendant claiming to be entitled to recover from 
him a sum of over Rs. 8,000, which he avers to be due from defendant 
to the estate of Lucia in respect of income of properties subject to 
the provisions of the joint will. The 7th and 9th paragraphs of the 
libel are not very explicit in distinguishing between the income of 
property subject to the provisions of the 14th clause of the joint will, 
as to which defendant and Miguel Jury were trustees, and subject 
to the general provisions of the will in favour of Lucia. But the gist 
of plaintiff's averments seems to be, that between the death of the 
testator and the death of Lucia the income of the joint estate 
amounted to Rs. 11,199*25, and deducting sums said to have been 
received by Lucia dining her lifetime, the plaintiff charges that 
there is a balance due to Lucia's estate of over Rs. 8,000, which he 
says has never been paid, and is in defendant's hands. 

There is a general averment in the 14th paragraph of the libel 
that the Rs. 11,199*25 above mentioned was received by defendant 
and Miguel Jury as trustees for Lucia. The liberfurther alleges 
that defendant, in an account filed in the ** testamentary matter " 
of the joint will, admitted this indebtedness, and that he promised 
to pay plaintiff the balance which plaintiff now claims, and that he 
never did pay. 

The defendant, in answer to this libel, sets up defences of non 
accrevit infra sex annoa and non accrevit infra ires annos, and (as I 
understand the answer) denies that defendant ** collected " the 
balance sum now claimed, and denies making any admission or 
promise as alleged. 

At the hearing the plaintiff went into the witness-box and made 
a rather confused statement, intended apparently to suggest that 
the defendant had in his hands the money now claimed, but by no 
means distinctly expressing anything. r ^ ^^^Tr> 

• . Digitized by VjOOvIV^ 



( 122 ) 
I889i The learned District Judge held that " plaintiff " had proTed 

Clabbnce J ^o*^i^g' *^ ^^ upheld the defence of prescription. He dismissed 
the suit with costs. 

So far as concerns the defence founded on the Prescriptioii 
Ordinance, I cannot uphold the judgment. Plaintiff avers that the 
money which he claims was receiyed by defendant as trustee for 
Lucia, and if defendant as trustee under the 14th clause of this joint 
will received income which it was his duty to pay to Lucia, his 
cestui que trust, he cannot, in my opinion, thus set up the Ordinance 
in beu* of the claim of his cestui que trust. If authority be needed 
for this we may find it in Burdick v, Oarricky L. R, 5, ch. 233, and 
Lake v. BeU, L. R, 34, ch. D. 462. It was then suggested for the 
defence that the action should be regarded as an action on account 
stated, meaning the account already referred to as filed in certain 
testamentary proceedings. I do not at all, however, view the action 
as one upon account stated, but as a suit to recover a sum claimed 
as due by trustee to cestui que trust. Reference was also made in 
the course of argument to the promise alleged as made by defendant, 
and the case of Roper v. Holland, A. and E., was refereid to. I do 
not think that case touches this case. There may be cases in which 
the relationship of trustee and cestui que trust has come to an end, 
in which the two parties have come to stand at arm's length, and 
money which originally accrued under the trust remains in the 
hands of the whilom trustee in another character than that of toist 
money. In such a case, no doubt, the statutory term might begin 
to run from the time ^hen the parties ceased to stand to each other 
in the character of trustee and cestui qu^ trust. I say there may be 
such cases possibly, but the present is not such a case. The court 
would certainly watch jealously any proposal to divert the trustee 
of his fiduciary character, and it is at any rate impossible to hold that 
the mere fact of a trustee promising to pay his cestui que trust, and 
then breaking bis promise, could have any such effect. 

The plaintiff's claim therefore has to be considered upon its 
merits, and as to that I do not dissent from the Chief Justice's 
proposal to send the case back to the District Court for trial on the 
merits. If the learned District Judge has expressly recorded that 
he disbelieved the plaintiff's statements in the witness-box, which 
are far from being very clear, I certainly, especially in view of the 
plaintiff's signal delay in taking probate of his testatrix' will, 
would not have undertaken to disturb the judgment for the defend- 
ant ; but under the circumstances I am content that the case 
should go back to the District Coiurt for trial, but I think plaintiff 
should have costs of this appeal. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



C.J. 



( 123 ) 

BURNSIDB, C.J.— 1889. 

I am unable to agree with the judgment of the learned District Burnside, 
Judge. The action is one brought by a cestui que trust to recover 
a sum of money due him under the trust from the trustee. The 
plaintiff alleges that a certain definite sum is in the defendant's 
hands, and if he has proved what he alleged, I camiot see any 
obstacle whatever to his recovering it in this suit. It is true that 
cestui que trust could not sue his trustee at law except in the cases 
like Roper r. Holland, 3 A . and E., but was compelled to resort to his 
equitable action of account ; but our Courts administer equity as 
well as law, and I am not aware that in an equitable action a cestui 
que trust could not recover if he alleged, and was able to prove an 
exact sum due to him without the taking of any accounts. Upon 
the plea of prescription, the defendant must fail. No proposition 
is better established than that prescription does not run between 
trustee and cestui que trust. But upon the main issue between the 
plaintiff and defendant, I think the plaintiff has established a prima 
fckcie case to recover the specific amount mentioned, Rs. 8,430-88, 
with interest. The District Judge has said that the plaintiff has 
proved nothing. If the District Judge means that the plaintiff has 
given no evidence bearing on the question, then it seems he has 
overlooked material parts of the plaintiff's evidence. If he means 
that what the plaintiff has sworn to is of no probative value, he is 
mistaken. The joint account of the executors of Anthony showed 
a balance in the hands of both the executors to the amount men- 
tioned. The plaintiff in his evidence says it w*as the defendant who 
had it. Now, if this be true, it establishes that that sum had come 
to the hands of the defendant for his cestui que trust, and the plaintiff's 
right to receive it is clear. As the learned Judge has, however, 
miscarried on this x)oint and on the issue of prescription, and perhaps 
the defendant was content to leave the case as the learned Judge 
had accepted it, I would send the case back in order that the real 
issue between the parties may be contested. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I 124 ) 

1895. VENASY V. VELAN et al. 

JtUy 1, 

P, C, MaMaham, 8,091. 

Criminal Procedure Code, a. 226, a, 16 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1888, and 
8. 352 of the Procedure Code — Irregularity of deciding case upon 
evidence outside it. 

The necessity for the framing of a charge by a Magistrate under 
section 226 of the Crin^inal Procedure Code does not exist in the 
case of a simple complaint, more or less in the words of a formal 
charge read- and explained to an accused at the commencement of 
the trial and adopted by the Magistrate €ks his charge. 

Failure to give an accused an opportunity to make a statement 
and to question him genertdly as to his defence, as required by 
section 362 of the Criminal Procedure Code and section 16 of Ordi- 
nance No. 1 of 1888, amounts to a fatal irregularity only if he were 
an ignorant and illiterate person and destitute of legal assistance at 
the trial. 

Each case must be decided solely upon evidence recorded therein, 
without reference to any other case. 

Tissera v. Foster (9 S. C. C. 173) distinguished. 

T^HE facts of the case are stated sufficiently in the judgment of 
-^ his Lordship the Chief Justice. 

Blaze and Aserappa, for the appellant. 



1st July, 1895. BoNSER, C. J.— 

This is an appeal from a conviction of Mr. Kathiravelupullai, 
Police Magistrate at MaUakam, on points of law. 

He conyicted the appellants of an assault, and fined them Rs. 10 
and Rs. 5 respectively. They can only appeal on grounds of law. 

The first objection is, that the Magistrate did not frame a charge. 

What happened was this. A written plaint was filed by the 
complainant, charging the accused *' with voluntarily causing hurt 
'^ and thereby committing an offence punishable under section 314 
*' of the Penal Code." That plaintwas read over and explained to the 
accused at the commencement of the trial, but no fresh charge was 
framed by the Magistrate. 

I cannot see that that was necessary. We have here in writing an 
accusation, which has all the requirements of a charge, and the 
Magistrate adopts that as his charge. 

It is said that section 226 of the Procedure Code requires him to 
write that out again, and that there is a decision of this Court — 
Tissera v. Foster, 9 8. C. C. 173 — which renders such a course 
necessary. r " ^ ^^^ I ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( 125 ) 

But in that case, it will be seen, that the complaint waa not a 1895. 
simple complaint like the one in the present case, but a complaint „ q j 

embodying charges under three di£ferent enactments. In that case 
the prisoner was found guilty of one only of the o£fences complained 
of. Again, the complaint was explained to the defendants on one 
day and the trial took place on a subsequent day. 

That is quite a different case from the present, in which we have 
a simple complaint almost in the very words of a formal charge, and 
which is read over and explained to the prisoner at the commence- 
ment of the triaL 

But, however that may be, whether Tissera v, Foster was rightly 
decided or not, or whether it can be distinguished from the present 
case, I am of opinion that there is not the slightest shadow of a 
reason for suggesting that the accused were in any way prejudiced 
by the omission, and therefore (whether the objection be a good one 
or bad one) I decline to set aside the conviction on that ground. 

The next objection was, that the Magistrate did not observe the 
requirements of section 352 of the Code and section 16 of Ordinance 
1 of 1888, that he did not give the prisoners an opportunity of 
making a statement, or question them generally as to their defence. 

This, no doubt, was an irregularity, and, had the appellants been 
ignorant and illiterate persons without legal assistance, I think that 
the objection would have been a substantial one, but in the present 
cases the interests of the accused were protected by two legal prac- 
titioners who appeared for them. Under these circumstances I 
think that there is no ground for saying that the accused were 
prejudiced by the irregularity. 

The third objection is this, that the trial having taken place on the 
4th of May the Magistrate did not convict until the 11th of May. 

Now, I have already stated in another case that I think it most 
desirable that Magistrates and District Judges should state their 
finding as to the guilt or innocence of the accused immediately at 
the conclusion of the trial, and that, if the impression left upon their 
minds by the prosecution, after hearing all the evidence, is so weak 
and unsatisfactory that they are unable to say whether they consider 
the accused to be guilty or not, they should give the accused the 
benefit of the doubt and acquit. 

The Magistrate in this case has forwarded his explanation of the 
delay. 

It appears that the 11th was the next Ck>urt day at Mallakam, and 
that he waited to give judgment until he had heard a connected 
counter case. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 126 ) 

It would appear from this that he did not decide the case on the 
evidence recorded in the case solely, but on that evidence combined 
with the evidence taken in some other proceedings. If that is so, 
the conviction cannot stand. 

Cases must be decided on the recorded evidence without reference 
to other cases. 



1895. RODGERS V. TINDAUS. 

' Master attendant and tindals of boats — Departmental inquiry — Ordinance 

No. 6 of J865, ss. 23 and 40 — Prosecution of offences against 
Ordinance. 

A master attendant acting under section 23 of Ordinance No. 6 of 
1865 can only withdraw or suspend a license, but he is not 
empowered by the Ordinance to take evidence on oath in any depart- 
mental inquiry, or to impose a fine as the result of such inquiry. 

All offences against the Ordinance being made cognizable by the 
Police Courts by section 40, they should be dealt with in a regular 
crim.inal proceeding before such courts. 

THIS was an inquiry which the Acting Master Attendant 
professed to hold departmentally imder section 23 of Ordi- 
nance No. 6 of 1865. It was due to a report made to him by the 
Harbour Police that the tindals of certain cargo lighters had gone 
alongside the ss. Rohilla before she was moored in her berth. On 
the day fixed for the inquiry the tindals were present, the report of 
the police was read to them, and they having denied the charge the 
Acting Master Attendant examined on oath some witnesses in support 
of the charge and made the following order : — " I find all the accused 
" guilty of going alongside the ss. Rohilla before she was moored and 
" impeding the pilot's movements in mooring the vessel. For this 
'' misconduct the accused are fined Rs. 5 each, qr in default their 
" licenses to be suspended for seven days. — ^F. O. Carter, Master 
" Attendant." 

The tindals appealed on the footing that the order complained c^ 
was made by Mr. Carter in his capacity of Joint Police Magistrate of 
Colombo. 

Damhorst and Barva, for appellants. 



17th June, 1896. Browne, A.J.— 

I think that the judgment of the Joint Police Court of Colombo, 
dated the 4th May, 1895, should be set aside, and the proceedings 
quashed as irregular. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



\ 



( 127 ) 

In forwarding the appeal lodged in these proceedings the Acting 1 895. 
Master Attendant has indicated to this Court his own doubts gjj^^^^ ^ j 
whether these, what he has styled " departmental *' proceedings, 
and professed to hold under section 25 of Ordinance No. 6 of 1865, 
are regular. It is very clear they are not. 

[After setting forth the facts of the case he continued] I do not 
see that Ordinance No. 6 of 1865 empowered the Master Attendant 
to take evidence on oath or to impose a fine. Section 23 empowers 
him only to withdraw or suspend a license, but his order to any such 
effect requires confirmation by His Excellency the Governor. 

It was stated in argument that the misconduct of which complaint 
was made would constitute an offence under Port Rule No. 37 of 
20th December, 1894. If it be so, prosecution to conviction and 
fine is authorized by section 34, and the provisions of section 40 
would apply. 

The Ordinance has clearly indicated that it is in such a regular 
criminal proceeding an offender should be charged, tried, and 
punished, and that by a Police Magistrate. These proceedings are 
an irregular attempt to arrive at this end under the guise of a depart- 
mental inquiry on oath by the Master Attendant, whereby possibly 
he might question the right of any person to appeal from his decision. 
In truth, however, it was a prosecution before the Joint Police 
Court, and in it the accused has not been charged with any statutable 
offence, nor regularly tried nor convicted. I hold the accused had 
right to bring the decision before this Court by appeal as he has done, 
and I order for these reasons that the proceedings be quashed. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 128 ) 



1895; CANDEPERUMAL v. SINNATAI a al. 

June 21, 26. 

ISMA LEBBE MARIKAR, Claimant and Appellant. 

D. C, BaUiccdoa, 24 J 76, IrUerlocutory, 

BiU of coats — Taxation — Civil Procedure Code, s. 214 — Claim proceedings 

under s. 241 — Determination of doss. 

The class of a claim proceeding under section 241 of the Civil 
Procedure Code is determined either by the value of the property 
claimed or the amount of the decree, whichever is the less, and the 
bill of costs of such proceeding should be taxed according to the 
class so determined. 

Per Browne, J. — A Court has power imder sections 244-246 ol 
the Civil Procedure Code to make order as to payment of costs. 

Adamjee v. Cadar Lebbe, D. C, Colombo, No. 98,031 {ICL. R. 66), 
distinguished. 

THE facts of the case sufficiently appear in the judgment of 
their Lordships. 

Domhorst, with Batoa, for claimant appellant. 
Sampayo, for respondent. 

Cur, adv, vuU. 

25th June, 1895. Bonsbb, C.J.— 

This is an appeal from the decision of Mr. Roosmalecooq, Acting 
District Judge of Batticaloa, as to the taxation of a bill of costs. 

The Fiscal, in executing a writ of execution to enforce a decree for 
the payment of money made in an action of Kaderamen Cander 
Permal v. Vaaiipody Summattai, No, 24,176, in the District Court of 
Batticaloa, seized a piece of land, which he reported to be of the 
value of Rs. 100. 

The appeUant claimed the land as his property, and the Fiscal, 
as required by section 241 of the Civil Procedure Code, reported the 
claim to the Court. 

The appellant thereupon made an application in writing, intituled 
in the said action, for a day to be fixed for inquiry into his claim, and 
that the sale by the Fiscal might be stayed pending that inquiry. 
The Court upon that application made an order staying the sale, 
and proceeded to investigate the claim in the presence of the 
execution-creditor and the claimant in a summary way as provided 
by section 242 of the Civil Procedure Code, and after hearing 
the evidence called by the appellant and the execution-creditor, 
disallowed the claim, and ordered the appellant to pay the costs of 
the inquiry. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 129 ) 

The Secretary of the District Cburt taxed the costs of the 1896. 
execution-creditor under class I. in schedule III. of the Civil bonsmTcj 
Procedure Code, on the ground that the value of the land was 
under Rs. 200. 

The Acting District Judge, on being referred to, ordered the 
taxation to be made under class IV., on the ground that the action 
in which the decree sought to be enforced was obtained was an 
action in class IV. 

The appellant contends that the Acting District Judge was 
wrong, and that the Secretary was right. There appears to be no 
decision of this Court on this point, and, although it is stated that 
tb£ practice of the Batticaloa Court has always been to tax the 
costs of these incidental proceedings on the same scale as the costs 
of the original action, it has been the practice in the Colombo 
District court, at all events in recent years, to tax them as costs 
in an independent action. 

Section 214 of the Code provides that bills of costs are to be 
taxed according to the rates specified in sechedule III. of the Code. 
That schedule divides actions into five classes for the purpose of 
taxation of costs according as '" the cause of action, title to land 
** or property, value of estate, or subject-matter of the action " is 
above or below certain specified amounts. In other words, the 
scale of taxation is to be determined by the amount at stake 
between the parties. If we apply that rule to this case, what is 
the amount at stake in this proceeding ? It is clearly not the same 
as the cause of action in the original action. 

The claimant is no party to that action. It is true that section 
241 provides that the Court is to have power over him "as if he 
" were a party to the action," in which would be included the 
power to make him pay costs in a proper case ; but it does not say 
that he is to be treated in all respects as a party to the action. 
He cannot dispute the validity or amount of the decree. The 
only question in the claim proceeding is, whether or not the property 
is liable to be seized in execution. 

The object of the execution-creditor is to have the property 
which is seized declared liable to him to the amount of the decree. 
Where the amount of the decree exceeds the value of the property, 
the execution-creditor cannot succeed to a greater extent than the 
value of the property. Where the value of the property exceeds 
the amount of the decree, the execution-creditor cannot succeed 
to a greater extent than the amount of the decree. The measure, 
then, of the value of the subject-matter of such a proceeding as 
this will be the value of the property or the amount of the decree, 
whichever is the less. 



Vol. I. 



^SfcPby Google 



( 130 ) 

1895. If the rule be as contended by the respondent, it would lead to 

Brownv ^^ anomalous result, that a man whose property is attached by 

A.J. an execution-creditor is to have the valuation of his proceedings 
to protect his rights determined, not by the value of his property, 
but by a quite irrelevant consideration, viz., the value of the 
original cause of action, with which he has nothing whatever to 
do. So that, if in the execution of a money decree for Rs. 10,000 a 
house were seized, belonging to the judgment-debtor, in which 
was a chair or table worth Rs. 10 belonging to a third person, 
that person, if he wished to assert his right to that property, must 
run the risk of having the costs taxed against him on ,the highest 
scale, if his claim is disallowed. 

The order of the Acting District Judge must be reversed, but, 
having regard to the fact that he followed the established practice 
of his Court, without costs. 



Bbowjjb, A.J. — 

I agree that the order appealed from should be set aside, and 
the Secretary's taxation of the costs of this claim inquiry be upheld. 

It was questioned in argument whether, when section 244 of the 
Civil Procedure Code mentioned only an order as to payment of 
Fiscal's fees and charges, the Court had power under sections 
244-246 to make order as to payment of costs. I hold that it has 
the power under section 209, but as that section applies only to 
costs proper, there was need of this additional power to provide 
for the payment of these other expenses. 

It was also lurged for the respondent that the order should be 
sustained for the reasons given in the decisions reported in 1, C. L. 
R, 66, whereby a like order was made as to taxation of costs incurred 
in claims in concurrence. But (1) these were decisions under the 
old procedure, when as yet claims were investigated by the Fiscal 
ere the Civil Procedure Code made them to be determined by the 
Court, and the Stamp Ordinance No. 3 of 1890 prescribed the Re. 1 
stamp on a FiscaFs claun for such purpose ; and (2) such claim 
and investigation is not necessarily " made and entitled as an 
application in the action," which was the reason for these decisions. 

In India such an application when entertained has to be 
numbered and registered as a suit (O'Kinealy, section 279). Our 
Code has not so directed ; indeed, it says the investigation shall 
be " in a summary manner," and so it might at first be r^arded 
as if it were made in the original action. But when it is 
remembered how complete in itself the inquiry is when held by 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



s 



( 131 ) 

the Court of the distriot wherein the property is situated 
which has not the original record before it, but only the claim 
with its own nominal stamp, the report and the proceeding 
thereon, it will be seen, it stands apart altogether from the 
original action, not only as regards its subject and issues, but as 
a matter of procedure ; so, too, when the Court of the writ holds 
such a separate inquiry as in these very proceedings. In either 
case the only data in the proceedings on which the class can be 
determined and the bill taxed is the value of the subject of claim. 
The contingency that the Fiscal would seize property of value 
exceeding the amount to be recovered under the writ I would regard 
as generally improbable. Were it to occur, I agree that the class 
for taxation of claim costs should not, as a rule, be greater than that 
of the original action. 



1B95. 

Browne, 
A.J. 



SILVA v. MACK. 
D. C, GoUmbo, 61 ,400. 

(Roche Victorid'a case,) 

FraudtUent deed — Want of consideration — Insolvency of grantor — 
CredUora, antecedent and subsequent to date of deed — English law 
and Raman' Dutch law — Ordinance No. 7 of 1853, s, 58. 

A bond given without consideration by a person in a state of 
insolvency ia void, as a fraud upon all persons who were creditors 
at its date and prejudiced by it. 

A deed cannot be set aside as fraudulent by a creditor who 
b^icomes such after the date of the alienation, unless it be proved 
to have been meule with an intention to defeat future creditors. 

THE following judgment of the learned District Judge (Mr. 
Berwick), delivered on June 22, 1874, fully sets out the facts 
of the case. 

" This La an action against the administrator of the estate of the 
late Roche Victoria by an alleged creditor on a bond by the intestate 
dated 26th January, 1867, for Rs. 7,160 and interest. The hbel sues 
for this sum and interest from the date of the bond, total Rs. 1 1,938, 
and prays that 64 shares of the ship Oeraldina Aleaxindrina 
Roche, specially mortgaged therefor, may be declared executable 
for the claim. The plea of the administrator is that the 
bond was voluntary and without consideration, and fraudulently 
made to defeat creditors. It does 



1875. 
Fefnruary 9, 



not specify any pa^cular^Q^gj^ 



y 



( 132 ) 

1876. creditor as prejudiced or intended to be defrauded. The 
6 ruary . pgpii^jj^^JQjj jg ^ traverse and demurrer. A question having 
arisen whether an administrator could maintain such a plea, 
setting up as a defence the fraud of the party he himself represents, 
certain creditors of the deceased were allowed to intervene against 
the plaintiff, and in their libel of intervention have repeated 
the plea of the administrator. These creditors are Gargill & Co., 
Armitage Brothers, and E. Labroy, executrix of the estate of the 
late Mr. Lorenz. 

'' As to the want of consideration and indebtedness generally. 
The bond is dated January, 1867. The consideration set up is an 
anterior and old loan said to have been made in March, 1861, of 
£250 ; another loan in September, 1866, of £220 ; compound 
interest on these loans from 1861 till the date of the bond, at 15 
per cent., £245, making a total of £715. 

** It is admitted that no security of any kind was given for these 
loans till 1867 ; that there was no document of any kind to vouch 
them ; no witness of the payments ; no evidence whatever of them 
beyond the unsupported statement of the plaintiff, who is the 
deceased's son-in-law and a party interested among the heirs in 
defrauding legitimate creditors ; and that no interest was ever paid 
on the stale alleged debts for which it was said the bond was given. 
It is proved that the existence of this bond was suppressed from the 
administrator and from the legitimate creditors for a long period 
after the deceased's death, under circumstances which naturally 
gave both special occasion and abundant opportunity for bringing 
it forward ; that the claim was not inserted in a list of Roche 
Victoria's Liabilities prepared by his son, a youth who was acting 
throughout under the constant advice and assistance of the plaintiff 
himself ; and that the existence of the bond was concealed from the 
deceased's legal adviser, Mr. Loos, who says * he (Roche Victoria) 
never did anything without taking my advice,' and whose client 
the plaintiff himself in fact was. See the evidence of Messrs. 
NichoUs, Loos, and Mack. 

'' Roche Victoria has died insolvent, and we have now to examine 
how far back in point of date his embarrassments extended. 

'' There is ample evidence that, as far back as the date of the 
bond, he was largely indebted, and in difficulties. On the very day 
before it was signed we find him writing to Mr. Lorenz (6 1): 
* No one knows but the Almighty God who created me. I was 
' obliged to beg my friends to assist me on this occasion.' Document 
E shows that in 1863 he owed Nany Tamby £435, and then borrowed 
a further sum of £1,700, agreeing to repay it in monthly instal- 
ments, and it would appear from the deed of assignment of this 
debt (marked D) that this debt was still subsisting in 1872. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 133 ) 

Mr. Dawson's award (Q) shows that in 1870 he was indebted to Nany 1875. 
Tamby in £1,472, balance due on promissory notes unsettled since ^^^^ 
1865. The letters by him to Mr. Lorenz in 1868 are not too far 
removed in point of date from that of the impeached bond (and 
these were not objected to on any other ground) to be relevant as to 
the state of his affairs when it was granted. In the absence of any 
evidence of sudden and independent pecimiary reverses having 
occurred in the interval, to which, and not to old indebtedness, the 
impecuniosity there referred to might reasonably be ascribed, the 
whole tenor of those of 18th March and 30th September, 1868, 
(G 4 and 5), admits of no explanation consistent with solvency. 
In the latter he writes : ' I must confess the truth in this matter 
that if you are [had] not interfered in this matter in time, I would 
have [been] smashed, and would have [been] exposed to the public 

long ago Not only I, Sir, but every mother's child will say 

even now or up to date that the poor Roche is living on Mr. Lorenz's 

bread,' and much more language to the same effect, such 

as only an insolvent entreating a creditor's indulgence would use. 
In the same letter he alludes to the imminent seizure in execution of 
one of his ships on a judgment obtained by the bank. It is true 
that the reception in evidence of other letters by him to Mr. Lorenz 
was objected to as inadmissible when tendered on behalf of the 
intervenients to show Roche's insolvent circumstances at the date 
of the bond, and that I sustained the objection ; but on further 
reflection I am not quite satisfied that my decision, made on the 
spur of the trial, and necessarily with little leisure for considering 
the point, was correct, and I have no hesitation in quoting from the 
letters marked G, because they were only objected to on the one 
ground of remoteness of date (which I think is an untenable objec- 
tion), and not on the ground on which the others were rejected. But 
there is sufficient evidence even without the documentary proof. 
Mr. Loos, who was his trusted and confidential legal adviser, 
consulted by him on and cognizant of all his affairs, swears as 
follows : * I was his professional adviser in 1867. From 1867 down 
' to the time of his death he weis in rather embarrassed circumstances. 
' His circumstances were bad in 1866 and for some years before 1867,' 
and then he goes on to give details. 

** The result is such an exceedingly strong prima facie case as to 
call for rebutting evidence, and failing this I must find as facts that 
the bond was without consideration, and executed in a state of 
inaolvency. Equally by Dutch and English law these fiaidings 
make it a fraud' upon and void as against all persons who were 
creditors at its date and prejudiced by it. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



February 9. 



( 134 ) 

Af^Irii 9 * -^^^ ^^ ^^® several intervenients Cargill & Co. were certainly 
not creditors at the date of the bond, and neither were Armitage 
Brothere (at least there is no proof that they were) ; and it is a 
question whether there is admissible evidence that Mr. Lorenz was. 
Is such a bond void as against subsequent creditors ? 

** The English cases turn on the construction of 13 Eliz., cap, 5, 
and the most important recent cases to the point are Jenkyn v. 
Vavgkan, 3 Drew, 419 ; SpireU v. WiUaws, 34 L. J., ck. 365 ; and 
Freeman v. Pope, 39 L. J., ch. 148 and 689. In the first Vice- 
Chancellor Kindersley held that a subsequent creditor may file a 
bill if any debt due at the date of the voluntary settlemant remains 
due at the date of the bill. In SpireU v. Willows, a distinction was 
taken between an impeachent by an antecedent creditor and by a 
subsequent one, it being there held by Westbury, Lord Chancellor, 
(1) that when any debt contracted anteriorly to a voluntary settle- 
ment is impeded thereby, and still exists unsatisfied, such a creditor 
may impeach the settlement, however solvent the debtor may have 
been at its date ; but (2) when subsequent creditors impeach it, 
they must show either insolvency (or deep indebtedness) or express 
intent to defraud creditors. Lastly, Freeman v. Pope, 39 L. J., 
ck, 148 and 689, seems to have dissolved this distinction, and has 
decided in effect that when any debt contracted before the settlement 
still exists unsatisfied, either the antecedent creditor or a subsequent 
creditor may impeach the settlement, however solvent the debtor 
may have been at its date, or however remote it may have been 
from his intention to delay or defraud creditors. Vice-Chancellor 
James, dealing in that case with the claim of a subsequent creditor, 
and an antecedent debt still existing, when stating the results of the 
previous cases, says : * It is immaterial whether the debtor had any 

' intention whatever of defeating his creditors,' and again, 

' however honest the settlement was, and however solvent the 
' settler was, at the time.' These principles are however to a large 
extent opposed to the Civil law and to other systems of enlightened 
jurisprudence, as well as to former English cases. See 2 BeU's 
Com. on Scotch Law, 182-186 ; 2 Kent's Com. on American Law^ 
part v., 38 ; Story's Equity Jurisprudence, sections 349, 361, 362, 
dfC. ; Chitty's CoU. of Statutes, tit. Fraudulent Conveyances ; and 
on Civil law see Voet ad Pand., XLIL 8, 14. Further, Vioe- 
Chancellor James came very reluctantly to his decision in 
Freeman v. Pope ; and Spirett v. Willows (on which that case 
hangs) has been acutely criticised (May's Voluntary and 
Fraudulent Alienations, p. 43), and has been brought forward 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 135 ) 

and overruled in America {ib. 46) ; and the efifect of it is consider- 1876. 
ably modified by the grounds given for aflfirming Freeman v. Pope ^^^^^y ^• 
in appeal (L. R. 5, ch. 538-541). 

" It is unnecessary in the present case to decide what the right of 
creditors would be in the case of both innocent intent and perfect 
solvency at the date of the fraudulent settlement, because here I 
find as a fact that there was insolvency at that time ; but it is not 
so clear that there was an intention to defraud the present or any 
then future creditors by it. I am therefore called upon to deter- 
mine whether, by the law of this country, when there has been 
insolvency at the date of the settlement (or produced thereby), a 
creditor to whom the debtor subsequently became indebted, but 
whom there was no intention to defraud thereby, may impeach it ; 
and whether the existence of some antecedent unsatisfied debt is 
necessary to enable him to do so. 

" The subject is one on which there is much conflict of laws. 
The law of Scotland diflfers from that of England, and the laws of 
the United States of America differ among themselves. Mr. Justice 
Story, rather however expressing his opinion, as a legal philosopher, 
of what the law ought to be, says : * Where the conveyance is 

* intentionally made to defraud creditors' (antecedent creditors, 
I presume he means) ' it seems perfectly reasonable that it should 
'be held void as to all subsequent as well as to all prior creditors on 

* account of ill faith.' (Equity Jurisprudence, section 361,) 
According to English law, the element of fraudulent intent seems 
now to be altogether eliminated by Freeman v. Pope, and a subse- 
quent debtor, as already stated, may impeach a voluntary settle- 
ment if (as settled in Jenkyn v. Vaughan) there be still existing at 
the t^ne of impeachment any debt contracted antecedent to the 
settleiiient. I think this condition of an antecedent and still 
existing debt is sufficiently proved in this case in respect to the sum 
entered in the list of registered claims as due to Nicholls & Co., who 
are the last of a series of assignees of a debt contracted by Roche 
Victoria to Nany Tamby . But, is this also the Roman-Dutch aw ? 
Or, failing facilities for answering the question in this form, is it 
the Civil law? For I cannot acquiesce in the argument that 
section 58 of the Insolvency Ordinance, introducing English law in 
certain cases, applies to the present one. The word * insolvent * 
must be there construed to be a person who has been adjudicated 
insolvent under the Ordinance. 

" It appears to me that the Civil law requires a concurrence of 
prejudice and fraudulent intention immediately directed against 
the person who seeks to impeach the deed ; that is to say, there 
must be both those circumstances, and they must also meet in the , ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Fthruary 9, 



( 136 ) 

1875. ^ same person ; Voet indeed says : Competit Jiaec dctio creditoribus 
in quorum prejvdicium res fraudulenter alienatae sunt {Ad Pand, 
XLII. 8, 3). The passage, however, which he cites from the DigeM 
in support of this statement {XLII, 8, 1 pr,) uses the expression 

* fraud,' and not * prejudice,' and is immediately followed there 
by the explanation qtto edicto consvluit creditoribus revocanda ea 
quoecunque infravdem eorum aiiencUa sunt {Digest, XLII. 8, I, s. 1). 
In XLII. 8, 10, «. i, we find a distinction taken where the claim of 
the antecedent creditor has been settled, but other creditors remain. 
Ita demum revocatur, quod fraudandorum crediiorum causa facium 
est, si evenJtum fraus habuit scilicet si hi creditores, quorum 
fraudandorum causa fecit, bona ipsius vendlderuni. Ceterum si iUos 
dimisit quorum fraudandorum causa fecit et alios sortitus est, si quidem 
simpliciter dimissis prioribus, quos fraudare voluit, alios posiea 
sortitus est, cessat revocatio ; si aulem horum pecunia, quos fraudare 
rujluit, priores dimisit, quos fraudare voluit, Marcdlus didt, revoea- 
tioni locum fore. Secundum hanc distinctionem, et ab Imperalore 
Severo et Antonino rescriptum est, eoque jure utimur ; that is to say, 

* subsequent creditors who are not intended to be defrauded by the 
' fraudulent act cannot impeach it, unless the creditor who was 
' intended to be defrauded has been paid off with their money/ 
(This is analogous to the Scotch law, 2 BeWs Com, 184 ; Erskine's 
Inst. 4, 1, 29, 30, and manifestly falls far short of the English law 
as settled in Jenkyn's v. Vaughan.) 



" Accordingly Voet, when he is enum3rating the various features 
which the actions PatUeana and Recissoria have in common (there 
being much resemblance between them, but the latter restricted to 
alienations after the judicial execution against an insolvent's estate 
called the missio in possessionem), says at paragraph 14, that one of 
the features they have in common is fraud on the part of the debtor, 
but that in this fraud two things must concur, to wit, the intention 
or design of defrauding, knowing that he was insolvent, and that 
he was nevertheless diminishing his estate, and a result correspond- 
ing to that intention, whereby his creditors are imable to recover 
their rights ; and he adds : * and finally [it is necessary] that the 

• fraudulent intention and the result concur in the person of the same 
' creditor, unless he whom the debtor originally intended to defraud 
' has been settled with out of the money of the creditor defrauded 

* in fact.' He closes the paragraph by deducing the consequence 
that no action is competent unless the debtor was insolvent at the 
time of the fraudulent gift or sale, or unless the alienation itself 
would have the effect of making him so. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 137 ) 

" A case very much in" point is thus put in the Digest {XLIL 8, „ z^^^- 

15) : — * If one who is a debtor to Titius, and is aware of his own 

'insolvency, gives his slaves their freedom by his testament, and 
' then, after having paid off Titius, becomes indebted to Sempronius 

* and dies, leaving his testament unrevoked, the manumission of his 
' slaves remains valid, although his estate be insolvent.' So far this 
shows that a voluntary settlement made by a person who is at its 
date in a state of insolvency is good against subsequent creditors, 
if no antecedent creditor's debt remains unsatisfied (compare 
Freeman v. Pope), but what if the debt remained due to Titius at the 
time that the debt to Sempronius was incurred, or if both remained 
due at his death ? That Titius could set aside the voluntary settle- 
ment there is no doubt {Instit. lib, 7, tit. 6, section 3), but could 
Sempronius, who was not a creditor at its date, do so as in the 
English law ? The reasoning given in the Digest {XLIL S, 16) for 
the decision there mentioned equally applies to and answers this 
question ; and in the negative quia libertates ui rescindantur, tUrumque 
in eorundem persona exigimvs ei consilium et eventum : et si quidem 
creditor cujus fraudandi consilium initum erai, non fraudatur ; ei 
adversus eum, qui fraudatur consilium initum rum est ; libertates 
itaque ratae sunt, i.e., ' because in order that the manumission should 

* be set aside we require both [fraudulent] intention and a result 

* corresponding therewith ; and inasmuch as the creditor, who was 

* the object of the fraudulent intention, Ls not defrauded, as regards 
' him who is defrauded, the fraudulent design is wanting.' In the 
case I have put it is true that Titius is defrauded, but in respect to 
the plaintiff Sempronius, who alone impeaches the deed, a fraudulent 
design is wanting. This passage, together with the text which 
follows it in the Digest, is one of the authorities which Voet cites 
for his definite proposition that the fraudulent design and 
the issue thereof must concur in the same creditor, except 
when the antecedent creditor has been paid with the money of 
the subsequent one. 

" I shall certainly desire to give what the Germans call an 
expansive interpretation to the law against frauds on creditors, as 
has indubitably been largely done both in England on the Statutes 
of Elizabeth, and in Scotland on the corresponding Statute 1621, 
B. 18. But to do that is one thing, and to decide in express 
contradiction to law is another ; and I feel constrained to hold on 
the authority of Voet {XLII. S, 14), that in order to a voluntary 
settlement or fictitious objection (which is the matter here) being 
impeached, it must be shown that there was an intention to 
defraud the very creditor who has been actually prejudiced by ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 138 ) 

1875. it ; and I can find no authority for holding that any creditor ndio 
• ^ ' Ib not in that cat^ory can come into Cburt to impeach it. 

** This opinion, however, does not necessarily infer that in no case 
is a person who only became a creditor after its date outside of that 
category. For the fraudulent intention may have been to defeat 
future as well as antecedent creditors. 

" Whatever contrarities exist among difFerent systems of juris- 
prudence as to the rights of subsequent creditors when there was no 
actual intention to defraud any one, or an intention to defraud uiy 
one, or an intention to defraud antecedent creditors only, I think 
there is no room to doubt that, where there has been an actual 
intention to defraud future creditors as well, any one of them who 
is prejudiced may set aside the deed. 

'* I have therefore further to find whether this intention existed 
in this case. I believe that it did. It almost happens in this 
country that gratuitous alienations and mortgages for sham debts 
are made by persons in insolvent circumstances, for the piu-pose of 
the alienee or mortgagee being a secret trustee to preserve property 
for the debtor's fraudident benefit after he has gone through the 
insolvency court, and to put his estate out of the power of 
subsequent as well as prior creditors, while he goes on trading 
recklessly and on a false display of capital. I am bound in fairness 
to the deceased to say that there is no evidence before me that he 
traded recklessly after creating this fictitious debt, which indeed 
was registered in usual course. But at the same time we know 
that the mortgage of the vessel would have been futile without 
registration, and we know how notorious it is to every one that, 
except where special inquiries become necessary in transactions 
regarding the very land or subjects mortgaged, how little wiser the 
public are as to encumbrances or alienations of property which 
remains in the possession, and apparently the property, of Hie 
ostensible owner. I place Uttle account therefore on the mere 
fact of registration in dealing with a question of indent to put 
property beyond the reach of future creditors, and I think it 
is a legitimate presumption that, where an insolvent carries on 
trade and incurs considerable debts after creating a sham debt 
by way of a secret trust, which would have the effect of 
prejudicing future as well as prior creditors, his intention was 
in accordance with the result. In this I only apply the legal maxim 
that a man must be presumed to have intended the natunJ 
consequence of his own acts, a maxim which is ten-fold stronger 
where that act is fraudulent. At the same time I must add that 
an intention to defraud future creditors by this mortgage has not 
appeared to me free of fair ground for doubt, and it is therefore 



Digitized by 



tit 18 there 
nOOgte 



( 139 ) 

that I have felt it necessary to consider the law which must be „^i®^ g 

applied in case of its absence. If this case should be appealed, and 

this intention be ultimately negatived in appeal, then, on the view 
I have arrived at on the law, I think the plaintiff will be entitled to 
judgment against both the defendant and the intervenients. 



" On my finding, however, and on the foregoing view of the law, 
it is necessary to decide whether Roche Victoria was indebted to 
Mr. Lorenz (represented by the intervenient La Brooy) at the time 
the deed was executed or not. It is sufficient to set aside the deed 
that I have found as a fact that it was to the best of my judgment 
intended to defraud some future creditor, and two of the interve- 
nients are in that category. I need scarcely observe that a fictitious 
debt, putting oneself under an obligation for what he did not owe 
(which is the case here), stands in all respects on the same footing 
as a voluntary settlement. The Digest has Sive ae obligavit fravdan- 
dorum crediiorum causa (XLII. 8, S). The bond and mortgage will 
be declared fraudulent i as against the intervenients. I cannot 
dismiss the plaintiff's claim against the defendant, because he 
represents not creditors but heirs, and as against them the plaintiff's 
claim is good, and must be upheld ; for the transaction is good as 
between the parties to it and their heirs, though bad as against all 
creditors. The defendant as administrator will therefore pay the 
plaintiff's cost, but the plaintiff will pay the intervenients' costs. 

'' As the law applicable to a case of this kind has been very fully 
discussed in this suit, and that adopted (mainly on the authority of 
the Civil law as interpreted by Voet in XLII. 8, 14 of his Commen- 
iaries on the Pandects) is in conflict with English law, though I feel 
fully fortified by the examplars of the Scotch law and the law of 
Louisiana, the jurisprudence of which kingdom and state are both 
founded, like oiu* own, on the basis of the Civil law, it will be useful 
to put in a concise proposition what I have now held to be the law of 
Ceylon. In a note to Kent's Commentaries, vol. 2, p, 442, will be 
found the following passages : — ' In Louisiana a deed cannot be set 

* aside as fraudulent by a creditor who becomes such after the date 

* of the alienation, unless it be proved to have been made with an 

* intention to defeat future creditors.' This I consider exactly to 
express the law of this country, if we add the words * or unless it 

* be proved that a person who was a creditor at its date has been 

* paid with the money of the subsequent creditor who seeks to set it 
' aside.' And with this addition it exactly and tersely summarizes 
what I have decided on the points raised in this suit." 



Digitized by 



Google 



1875. 
February 9. 



( 140 ) 

The mortgage bond in favour of the plaintiff having been set aside 
as fraudulent, he appealed. 

Fitzroy KeUy (with him Samud Orenier) appeared for him. 

Ferdinands (with him Layard) for defendant respondent. 

Cur, adv. vuU, 

The case was argued in appeal on 2nd February, 1875. 

9th February, 1876. The judgment of the Supreme Court was 
delivered by Sir Richabd Moboan, Acting Chief Justice, as 
follows : — 

The Supreme Court concurs with the learned District Judge in 
holding that the bond upon which the plaintiff sues was given by 
the deceased without consideration, and with intent to defraud his 
creditors. 

Affirmed. 



1895. 
August 2» 



MANA PERERA, Petitioner, and PERERA APPUHAMY 

et al., Respondents. 

In the Matter of Abraham and Elias de Mel, Minors. 

D, C, Kalutara, 51. 

Civil Procedure Code^ chapter XL. — Application for guardianship — Sale 
of mirwr's property by giuirdian — Powers of guardians. 

The Civil Procedure Code does not limit the powers conferred on 
giiardianH by the Roman-Dutch law. 

A guardian may sell immovable property with the sanction of tlie 
Court. 

Such sale should be by public auction with a reserve price put 
upon the property by Court, which should also give directions as to 
the manner of sale and of the investment of the proceeds thereof. 

A mother, married in com.munity and surviving her husband, has 
a preferential right to be appointed as a guardian of her children, 
but some other person shoiild be named by the Court to act with 
her, so as to safeguard the interests of the children. 

n^HE facts of the case appear in the judgment of the Chief 
^ Justice. 

Domhor8t, for appellant, cited D. C, Colombo, 392 (Fewwfer- 
strauten's Reports, p. J 02), in the course of the argimient^ i 

igi ize y g 



( 141 ) 

2nd August, 1895. Bonsbb, C.J, — jg^U 

This is an appeal from an order of Mr. de Livera, District Judge Bon8kb,C.J. 
of Kalutara, refusing to appoint the petitioner curatrix over the 
property of her infant children. It appears that the petitioner and 
her late husband were married in community of property, and, 
therefore, the children and the appellant are jointly entitled to the 
estate. The estate, which is of very small value, consists in part of 
an undivided four-fifths share in some land situated at considerable 
distance from the home of the widow and the children, and it is 
therefore well-nigh impossible for the widow to look after the interest 
of herself and the children in the land. In these circumstances, 
she was of opinion that it would be better for all parties if the share 
were sold. Hence she applied to be appointed curatrix in order 
that she might seU the shares to certain persons whom she named, 
and whom she proposed that the sale should be effected by private 
contract. The District Judge refused the application on the ground 
that there is no provision in the Civil Procedure Code empowering 
a curator ad litem to sell property belonging to minors. But it is 
to be observed that the appellant did not apply to be appointed 
curator ad litem. She applied under chapter XL. of the Civil 
Procedure Code to be appointed guardian. Now, I dp not under- 
stand that the Code anywhere limits, or is intended to limit, the 
powers of guardians. 

It provides for their appointment and for the way in which they 
may be called upon to render accounts, and so on ; therefore, when 
we wish to see what powers guardians have, we must have recourse 
to the law existing before the Code. I find it laid down in Thomp- 
son's Inatiiutes, vol. II., p. 60, that a guardian may sell immovable 
property, but not without the leave of the Court. It is also stated 
by him {p. 53) that the surviving mother is to be preferred to 
anybody else as a guardian, but that she ought to have a colleague 
appointed with her. The reason for appointing a colleague is, I 
imagine, because it is the duty of the guardian to make an inventory 
of the children's property, or to demand it from the surviving 
parent. Therefore, in the present case, I think the mother 
should be appointed guardian together with some other person 
whom the District Judge may approve of ; and that at the 
same time the District Judge should, if he is satisfied that the sale 
of the property will be of benefit to the children, make an order 
that the property be sold, and give directions as to the manner of 
sale and the investments of the proceeds, either by depositing in 
the Loan Board, or, if he thinks it will be more beneficial to the 
minors, allowing it to remain with the guardian on her giving^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



1805. 

WiTHBBS, J. 



{ 142 ) 

good security in the shape of immovable property for its repayment. 
The sale should not be a sale by private contract, but should be a 
sale by public auction, and the Court should fix a reserve price so 
as to prevent the property from being sold for less than its value. 



WiTHBES, J. — 

I fully concur in the order of the Chief Justice, and have only to 
add that, by section 64 of the Courts Ordinance, District Courts have 
jurisdiction over estates of minors. That being so, it is sorely a 
proper exercise of jurisdiction to sanction the disposition of a minor's 
property when it is clearly to his benefit. See, for instance, the case 
reported in Vanderstmaieny 1870, p, 102 {D, C, Colombo, 392), where 
the uncle of four minors was appointed guardian over them for the 
purpose of alienating their share in an estate which they owned with 
others, a purchaser having come forward who was prepared to give 
a fair price for the property. 



1894. 
October 4^11. 



LOWE V, POLORIS. 
D. C, Chilaw, 608. 

Protnissory tvoU — Illegal consideration — Charge of criminal miaappro- 
priaUon against defendant — Promise not to press such charge, part 
considearion for note. 

1\ who had been charged before a Police Court with criminal 
misappropriation of goods entrusted to him by L, granted to L, 
during the pending of such case, a promissory note for part of the 
value of such goods and peud him the balance in cash, obtaining at 
the same time an acknowledgment from L that he had received in 
full the amount due to him " from P, the defendant in P. C. case 
No. 3,664." 

Held that, as the debt due was not the only consideration for the 
note, but the agreement also not to prosecute any further the 
criminal charge then pending, the note was taint^xl with a bad 
consideration, and was void. 

ACTION on a promissory note. Defendant, inter alia, pleaded 
that he received no consideration, and that " plaintiff 
'' obtained the said document by fraud, coercion, and duress.'* 

The District Judge gave judgment for plaintiff, seeing no reason 
to doubt his statement that the promissory note was granted* in 
consequence of defendant not accounting to the .plaintiff, for a 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 






( 143 ) 

quantity of copperah entrusted by him to the defendant for 1894. 
deliveiy at Colombo ; that the defendant paid plaintiff a part of Lawbib, 
the value of the copperah in cash, and for the balance granted the A.C.J, 
promissory note ; and that thereupon plaintiff withdrew a criminal 
charge of misappropriation which he had brought against the 
defendant, and which was then pending in court. 

Defendant appealed. 

4th October, 1894. — SenevircUne appeared for appellant, and 
Aserappa for plaintiff respondent. 

Cur, adv. vuU. 

11th October. Lawbib, A.C.J. — 

The answer is evasive and disingenuous ; I do not rely on the 
evidence of the defendant. I examine only the evidence of and 
the receipt given by the plaintiff, and in these I find sufficient 
admissions and proof that the consideration for this note was at least 
in part ill^al. It involved the dropping of a criminal prosecution, 
for which the Police Magistrate of the district had issued a warrant 
for the apprehension of the first defendant. I think there can be 
no doubt that the defendant Poloris and the first accuHcd Podi Sinno 
are one and the same person. 

The plaintiff says that the first defendant was arrested after he 
gave the promissory note. This I think may safely be said to be 
untrue. He was certainly under arrest when the note was made. 
It is said by the plaintiff that the consideration for the note was the 
value of copperah which he had charged the first defendant and 
others with having misappropriated. The discharge granted by the 
plaintiff at the same time as the note was made, refers specially to 
the criminal case 3,664 ; it is an amicable discharge of the amount 
referred to in that case, and this writing under the hand of the 
plaintiff seems to me to prove clearly that part of the consideration 
for the note was the giving of a document, which the parties believed 
would convince the Magistrate that the plaintiff had settled, and had 
no further claim against the defendant. 

There may have been a debt due by the first defendant to plaintiff. 
I assume that there was, but that was not the only consideration 
for the making of the note, that certainly was not the consideration 
moving the second defendant (the first defendant's wife) to make it. 

The consideration was that the plaintiff would not insist in and 
continue a prosecution for criminal misappropriation which he had 
already instituted ; and as I am of opinion that this note is tainted 
with a bad consideration, I would set aside and dismiss the action 
with costs. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 144 ) 

18»4; WiTHBBS, J.— 

Withers, J. This is an action on a promissory note for Rs. 120 with interest, 
alleged to have been made by the defendants to plaintiff at Marawik 
on the 28th day of August, 1892. 

The answer did not deny the making of the note, but raised every 
possible objection against the makers being adjudged to pay the 
amount. The principal pleas raised are iU^ality of consideration 
and duress. 

These defences are imperfectly pleaded, and the answer containing 
them should have been returned for amendment, or, if the party 
would not amend these pleas, should have been struck out. 

The 75th section of the Code requires that the circumstances of 
the case upon which the defendant means to rely for his defence 
should be stated. The answer should have disclosed the circum- 
stances which constituted '' duress," or made the consid^ation 
" iUegal." 

The plaintifF, however, made no objection to the form of the 
answer. He no doubt understood the drift of it, and he let the case 
go to trial without any settlement of issues. 

In the argument in appeal, the two defences of duress and illegal 
consideration were so mixed up together that I was not quite able 
to apprehend the line of defence. 

I was not satisfied that the plea of duress had been made out, and 
so I address myself to the plea of illegal consideration. It is 
admitted that the plaintiff charged the defendant before the Police 
Magistrate with a criminal offence relating to a quantity of copperah 
which he alleges he entrusted the first defendant with to take to 
Colombo for sale. Upon that charge a warrant of arrest was issued 
by the Police Magistrate, and this accused was arrested by one 
Sebastian, Pohoe Headman of Marawila. 

It is admitted that this note was demanded by the plaintiff of 
the defendant on account of the copperah which was the subject of 
the criminal complaint. Whether this note was made before or 
after the arrest by the police headman is not clear from the evidence. 
Plaintiff says it was before, defendant says it was after, the arrest. 

On the same day, however, as the note was given by the defendant 
to the plaintiff, a receipt was granted by the plaintiff to the defend- 
ant, the correct translation of which is said to be as follows : — 
** Received amicably on the 28th August the amount in full due to 
** me from Kuruppu Arachchige Peloris Appu, of Wennappuwa, 
" the defendant in case No. 3,664, and his wife Catherina Hamy. 
" Signed Paulu " (i.e., plaintiff). 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 146 ) 

Plaintiff, who gave this receipt, speaks of it in these words : "I 
'' gave a receipt to the defendant. It was a discharge, on condi- 
*^ tion that I would not proceed further with the case against 
" him." The case referred to is No. 3,664, and is the criminal 
matter above mentioned. 

AitN careful consideration of the evidence I find it impossible 
not to regard the demand for the note, the making it, and the 
granting of the receipt, as one transaction, and impossible not to 
say that a part of the consideration tot the making of the note 
was the promise not to prosecute the first defendant any further in 
the criminal case No. 3,664. 

That being so, the agreement not to prosecute clearly vitiates 
the whole transaction, and renders the promissory note void. 

The judgment should be set suside, and plaintiff's action dismissed 
with costs. 

Action diamissed. 



1894. 
VVirHBRS, J. 



SILVA V. BABAHAMY. 1896. 

August 2, 
D, C, GWfe, 2,980^ 

CivU Procedure Code, 8. 74 — Ansioer — Time for filing. 

Section 74 of the Civil Procedure Code does not contemplate only 
one extension of time for filing answer, the words *' at any subse- 
quent time" of that section being intended to meet a c€fcse of more 
than one extension. 

THE facts of the case are fully stated in the judgment of the 
Chief Justice. 

AlwiSy for appellant. 

2nd August, 1895. Bonser, C.J. — 

In this case the appellant was not ready with her answer on 
the day fixed for her answer, and she got leave to file answer on 
a subsequent day. On that day, however, she was not ready ; 
but the Court did not proceed to hear the case ex parte and make 
a decree nisi as it might have done, but fixed the trial of the action 
for a date two months later. Long before the date of trial the 
defendant appeared and applied for leave to file answer, and 
stated in an afiidavit the reasons — on the face of them satisfactory 
— ^why she had not filed her answer on the day fixed for that 
purpose by the Court. The District Judge, however, held that he 
had no power to receive the answer or to extend the time 
for filing answer, being of opinion that section 74 of the Civil 

Vol. I. 12(54)29 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



1895. 

BoNSER,C.J. 



( 146 ) 

Procedure Code allowed only of one extension of time for filing 
answer. 

I am of opinion that the District Judge has construted the 
Code too literally, and that it admits of a more elastic interpretation. 
I think the words ** at any subsequent time" are intended to meet 
a case of more than one extension, and, therefore, that the appellant 
ought to be allowed to file her answer. 

The District Judge suggests that she should wait until the case 
has been heard and decided, and then, when she has been served 
with notice of the decree, move to have it set aside. That would 
be a most inconvenient procedure. I think every reason of justice 
and convenience favours her being allowed to file answer. 

The appeal is allowed. 
WrrHERS, J., concurred. 



1896. 

July 30. 

Augtist 2 

and 9. 



CAVE V. KRELTSZHEIM. 
P. C, CoUmbo, 38fi8L 

Evidence — Forgery — Comparison of handwriting in disputed document 
with handwriting in genuine document. 

In a case of forgery, a Judge sitting without a jury should not 
arrive at a decision on the comparison of handwritings without 
some proof that the handwriting of the disputed document is the 
handwriting of the accused. 

BoNSER, C.J. — I am not satisfied that it was intended to allow 
a jury to find a man guilty of forgery, when no qualified witness 
could be found willing to state his belief that the alleged forgery 
was in the handwriting of the accused. 

Withers, J. (with much hestitation). — ^It is permissible for a 
jury or Judge to bring in a verdict of guilty on the compeo-ison of 
a disputed handwriting with a well -proved handwriting, 
unsupported by other evidence as to the disputed handwriting. 

But a decision of Judge or jury resting solely on a comparison of 
other than ancient documents is dangerous. 



THE complaint against the accused was that he committed 
criminal breaxjh of trust of certain goods entrusted to him 
as Value-Payable Parcel Register Clerk of Messrs. Cave & Co. of 
Colombo. At the inquiry it appeared that some of the goods 
mentioned were parted with by Cave & Co. on the strength of 
two letters (marked C and D), which purported to come from one 
Fernando from Kandy. The first letter ordered the goods, and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 147 ) 

the second called attention to it, and it was proved that Fernando IS95. 
was a fictitious person. Certain books (marked B and 6) kept 
by the accused and in his handwriting were also produced and 
referred to by a witness for the prosecution. The Police Magis- 
trate thereupon framed three charges against the accused : — 

(1) Under section 457 of the Penal Code, that he committed 

forgery of the letters C and D. 

(2) Under section 403 of the Penal Code, that he cheated 

Cave & Co. and dishonestly induced them to deliver to 
him certain goods. 

(3) Under section 391 of the Penal Code, that he committed 

criminal breach of trust of the property. 

The accused consented to be tried by the Police Magistrate, 
and after he had adduced evidence for the defence, the Police 
Magistrate found him guilty of having forged the two letters C and 
D, for the purpose of cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of 
property in question, and sentenced him to nine months' rigorous 
imprisonment, observing : " The articles mentioned in the charge 
" under section 403 of the Penal Code were ordered by letter C ; 
"and this order was repeated by letter D. These two letters, 
" I have not the slightest doubt, were written by one and the same 
" person, and that person was the accused, the person who made 
"the entries in the books B and G, which have been proved to 
"have been made by the accused. There is a striking general 
"similarity between the writing and each letter to the writing 
"of the other, and between the writing of both letters to the 
" writing of the entries in the books B and G ; and a close 
"examination with a glass discloses a similarity and an identity 
" in detail which is more than a coincidence," &c. 

The accused appealed. 

The appeal was argued first on the 30th July, 1895, when Pereira 
appeared for appellant and Van Langenberg for respondent. 
And the case having stood over for Pereira to furnish authorities, 
it was argued again on the 2nd August, 1895, when Pereira appeared 
for appellant and Domhorst for respondent. 

P&reira, for appellant, — 

The accused was originally charged with theft of certain articles. 
But the Police Magistrate charged him with forgery of the 
documents C and D and with cheating, and convicted him on 
those charges. There was no evidence before him to justify these 
charges. He based his finding on the charge of forgery entirely 
on a comparison of the documents C and D with certain other C^ r\r\rs\p^ 

igi ize y g 



( 148 ) 

^^^^' documents produced by the complainant, not to prove handwriting, 
but to prove the fact of certain entries made by the accused. A Judge 
or jury may compare handwriting to test the correctness of opinions 
expressed by witnesses with regard to an impeached document, 
but where no witness has given any evidence as to impeached 
documents being forgeries, and where it is not a part of the case 
for the prosecution that the eu;cused forged such documents, it is 
not open to Judge or jury to discover, so to say, after the close of 
the whole case, evidence by comparison of documents not produced 
expressly for purpose of comparison. The effect of the judgment 
of Blackburn, J., in Regina v, Harvey, is stated, in ArchiboUTs 
Pleading and Evidence in Criminal Cases, 21st ed., p. 312, to be that 
under section 8 of 28 Victoria, c. 18, the disputed handwriting and 
the writing whose genuineness is proved cannot be submitted to 
a jury in order that they may draw their unaided conclusion from a 
comparison, but that they must be assisted by the evidence of an 
expert. Besides, the accused in this case was taken by surprise. 
He had no reason to anticipate that the absence of evidence would 
be supplied by a comparison of handwriting by the Magistrate 
himself, and he had no opportunity of stating to the Court his 
reaisons against the conclusions drawn by the Magistrate by com- 
parison of handwriting. 



Domhorst, for the respondent, — 

Comparison of handwriting may be made without the inter- 
vention of any witnesses at all, by the jury themselves, or in the 
event of there being no jury by the Court (Taylor, 8th ed,, vol. II., 
p. 1585). According to the old law, only Judge or jury can compare 
handwriting. The statute left the old law where it was. [Bonsbb, 
C.J. — There must be positive evidence that the disputed writing is 
the writing of the accused.] According to Solita v. Yarrow 
(1 Moody and Rcbinson, 133) a jury may judge of a disputed hand- 
writing by comparing it with other documents put in evidence for 
other purposes, and admitted to be of the handwriting of the party. 
{BoNSER, C.J. — But Mr. Pereira says that there is no evidence 
whatever that the documents were in accused's handwriting.] 
But it is open to the Court, nevertheless, to compare. Again, 
according to Griffith v. Williatns (1 Crompton and Jervis, p. 47), 
the rule that comparison of handwriting is not evidence does 
not extend so far as to prevent Judge or jury from instituting 
a comparison between two documents of which prima facie evidence 
has been given. 

Pereira in reply. Cur. adv. vtdt. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 149 ) 
9th August, 1895. Withers, J.— 1896. 

WXTHEBS, J. 

In this case the appellant has been convicted by Mr. Moor, 
the Police ^Magistrate of Colombo, of the offence of forging 
two letters, and of the offence of cheating by means of those letters. 

The main question which we have., to decide is whether the 
evidence sustains the conviction of forgery. 

In the information which founded these criminal proceedings 
the accused was charged with criminally misappropriating certain 
articles entrusted to him by Mr. S. Cave. 

At the close of the case for the prosecution, the Magistrate, 
considering that a prima facie case had been made out against 
the appellant of the offence of forgery and cheating, charged him 
accordingly, and called on him to answer these charges. 

In the course of the inquiry into the original charge of criminal 
misappropriation two books were produced, which were proved 
to the satisfaction of the Magistrate to contain entries in the hand- 
writing of the accused. The Magistrate founded his judgment 
on a comparison of the imputed with the genuine handwriting. 
He had no doubt that the man who wrote the one wrote the other, 
and, so believing, he convicted the accused of forging the letters 
C and D. 

It was urged by appellant's counsel that a Judge or jury could 
not bring in a verdict of guilty upon the mere comparison of a 
genuine with a controverted writing ; that before any such com- 
parison could be made some foundation of proof must be laid 
as to the disputed writing being in the hand of the party 
accused. 

In this case, no one acquainted with the accused's handwriting 
was called to swear to his belief that the letters C and D were 
in the accused's handwriting. Nor was any expert or skilled 
witness called to compare the genuine with the imputed hand- 
writing, and state upon oath that he believed that both writings 
were in the hand of one and the same person. In support of his 
contention, appellant's counsel cited the case of Regina v. William 
and Henry Harvey reported in Cox, 0. L. Cases, vol, XL, p. 546, 
These prisoners were indicted for forging and uttering a cheque, 
and the case against Henry Harvey rested on the evidence of some 
copy books found by a policeman at that prisoner's house, the 
handwriting of which, it was contended, corresponded with the 
writing on the cheque. The prisoner's counsel objected to the 
evidence, on the ground that police ofl&cers and constables were 
not competent to give evidence as experts. ^^ , 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



1895. 



( 150 ) 
Blackburn, J., who presided at the trial, is reported to have 



Withers, J. observed as foUows ; 



The jury can inspect them and compare them with the forged docu- 
ment. But still they are only copy books, which go no further than to 
show that the prisoner was taught writing. I think the evidence is 
very weak, and I do not think the jury ought to act ujwn it without 
the assistance of an expert. The policeman is certainly not a skilled 
witness, and, according to Regina v. WUliamt not a competent one. 
Mr, Cherry drew attention to 28 Victoria, c. 18, section 8, which enacts 
that ** comparison of a disputed writing with any writing proved to the 
'' satisfaction of the Judge to be genuine, shall be permitted to be made 
'* by witnesses, and such writing and the evidence of witnesses respect- 
" ing the same may be submitted to the Court and jury as evidence 
'^ of the genuineness or otherwise of the writing in dispute." But 
here we have no expert, and I do not think it would be right to let the 
jury compare the handwriting without some such assistance. The 
evidence is very slight. 

The learned Judge seems to have regarded the copy books as 
very slender evidence of the prisoner's handwriting, and he was 
not minded to submit them to the jury for comparison without 
the aid of an expert in handwriting. 

I gather from the report that he would have let them go to the 
jury for comparison if he had been satisfied that the books were 
in the prisoner's handwriting. K I am right, this case is rather 
against Mr. Pereira. The Act of 28 Victoria, c. 18, section 8, was 
passed to bring the criminal law on the subject in conformity 
with the practice in civil cases under the Common Law Procedure 
Act, 1854, section, 27, which is identical with the former. 

Taylor's comment on these Acts in the 8th edition of his work 
is that the comparison of a writing, proved to the satisfaction of 
a Judge to be genuine, may be made either by witnesses acquainted 
with the handwriting, or by witnesses skilled in deciphering, or 
without the intervention of any witnesses at all by the jury them- 
selves, or in the event of there being no jury, by the Court. 
He cites in support of his opinion the case of Cobbett v. Kilminster 
{4, Foster and Finlayson, per Martin B), which is thus referred 
to in Fisher's Common Law Digest, vol, 3, p, 1440 : — 

The question being whether a memorandum was in the handwriting 
of the defendant, and he, in the course of cross-examination, having been 
got to write something on a piece of paper, this was allowed to bo 
shown to the jury for the purpose of comparison of handwriting. 

The law laid down in Allport v. Meek (4, Carrington and Payne, 
p. 267) is, he considers, no longer law. This was an action of 
assumpsit on a bill accepted by the defendant drawn and endorsed 
by one Williams. The witnesses called to prove the handwriting 
of Williams said that neither the drawing nor the indorsement 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 151 ) 

was written by him. It was then proved that the defendant had i^**^'**- 

acknowledged the acceptance to be his, and this being in mercan- Withers, J. 

tile law a conclusive admission as against the acceptor of the 

drawer's signature, it was contended that the jury might look at 

the indorsement and compare it with the drawing. Tindal, C.Jo 

would not allow this to be done, observing, ** I think you must 

** call some witness to lay some evidence before the jury on which 

*' they may decide." This decision was in the year 1830. It is to be 

observed that in this case the admission on the one side was met 

by counter-evidence on the part of the plaintiff, so that there 

was really no standard of comparsion. / " Moody and Robinson, 

p. 133 {Solita V. Yarrow), referred to in the course of argument, 

is thus summed up in the head note : "A jury may judge of a 

" disputed handwriting by comparing it with other documents in 

" evidence for other purposes and admitted to be the handwriting 

*' of the party." In that case evidence had been received for and 

against the genuineness of the writing used as a standard of 

comparison. In Griffith v. Williams {1, Crompton and Jervis, 

p. 47), also referred to in argument, it was decided per curiam 

that where two documents are in evidence it is competent for the 

Judge or jury to compare them. This was an eu;tion for breach 

of promise to marry, and the plaintiff having put in several letters 

of the defendant which were admitted, endeavoured to prove 

another letter of an important character as written by him. This 

was met by counter-evidence on the part of the defendant. 

The old English law no doubt allowed ancient deeds to be put 
in for the purpose of comparing the seals with those of a disputed 
deed, and these might be compared by Judge and jury. That 
was permitted, as the Judges in Doe dem. Mvdd v, Suckermore 
(5, AdoVphus and Ellis, p. 70S) observe, on the ground of necessity. 
The later English law referred to allows comparison by jury or 
witnesses of any other documents except those already in the case. 

As to comparison by a jury of handwriting produced in the 
cause for other purposes than the question of authenticity of a 
disputed document, Lord Denman observed in Doe dem. Perry 
V, NewUm (5, Adolphus and Ellis, p. 516) that the comparison 
was unavoidable, " there being two documents in question in 
** the cause, one of which is known to be in the handwriting 
" of the party, the other alleged, but denied to be so, no 
" human power can prevent the jury from comparing them with 
*' a view to the question of genuineness, and therefore it is best 
•* for the Court to enter with the jury into that inquiry apd ^ t 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



{ 152 ) 

1895. ** to do the best it can under circumstances which cannot be helped." 
Withers, J. He added, " The best rule is, that comparison of writings by the jury 
" shall not be allowed in any case where it can be avoided. When 
'' we consider that the same course which is permitted in a case like 
'' this may also be resorted to in a criminal case for the purpose of a 
** conviction, we cannot draw the limit too carefully." In this 
case the will of Mr. John Brockbank was disputed, and in the 
course of the trial the plaintiff's counsel, in cross-examining one of 
the defendant's witnesses, put into his hand some letters, which 
the witness said he believed from the character to be of Brockbank's 
handwriting. It was afterwards proposed on behalf of the plaintiff 
to submit these letters to the jury, in order that they might compare 
them with the disputed signature, and thereby judge both of its 
genuineness and of the credit due to the witnesses on this subject. 
The letters were not in evidence for any other purpose. The Judge 
would not allow them to be put in, and his order was sustained by the 
Court of King's Bench. This was in 1836. It is clear that the 
statute of 28 Victoria has altered that law. 

Giving my best consideration to the arguments adduced to us 
and to the cases before referred to, I come with no little hesita- 
tion to the conclusion that jury or Judge may bring in a verdict 
of guilty on the comparison of a disputed with a well-proved 
handwriting, unsupported by other evidence as to the disputed 
handwriting. I think, however, that a decision resting solely on 
comparison by Judge or jury of other than ancient documents is 
of a very dangerous character, and speaking for myself I should 
not venture, as a Judge sitting without a jury, to arrive at a decision 
solely on the comparison of two or more documents. I think 
some foundation of proof as to the handwriting of the disputed 
document should first be laid before a Judge should act upon his 
own comparison. 

Another point of importance was pressed upon us by Mr. Pereira. 
He urged that his client had not sufficient opportunity given to 
him to meet the altered charge of forgery. The judgment by 
comparison of the incriminated letters with certain entries in 
books alleged to have been made by him, it was urged, took the 
prisoner by surprise. Not anticipating that the Magistrate would 
found his judgment pronouncing him guilty of forgery on such 
comparison, he did not show cause against the value of that evidence 
on which he was convicted. He may, for all I know, have contested 
the writing in the books alleged to be in his handwriting. 

I think he should have a further opportunity of meeting the 



( 153 ) 

charge of forgery, and indeed I think evidence should at least be 1896. 
called for as to the handwriting of the imputed papers before he Bonseb,C.J. 
is required to meet the charge, and I would accordingly quash the 
conviction and remit the case for further trial on the charges of 
forgery and cheating. 

BONSBR, C.J. — 

I agree that there should be a new trial in this case. At the 
same time I doubt whether the statute 28 Victoria, c. 18, section 8y 
has the effect that Mr. Taylor in his work on Evidence ascribes to it. 
The question is not one of much practical importance, for I do not 
think that the case of a man being convicted of forgery solely on 
the evidence afforded by a comparison of written documents, with- 
out any testimony either of experts or of persons acquainted with 
his handwriting, has ever before occurred or is likely to occur again. 
The statute appears to me to have been passed to faciUtate proof 
of handwriting in two ways — first, by allowing written documents 
to be put in evidence merely for the purpose of comparison with 
the disputed document, although they were not evidence for any 
other purpose ; and secondly, by admitting the evidence of persons 
who were not acquainted with the handwriting of the person 
charged, but who, as experts, could give their opinion based on a 
comparison of an admitted writing with disputed writings. 

I am not satisfied that it was intended to allow a jury to find a 
man guilty of forgery, when no quaUfied witness could be found • 

willing to pledge his oath to his belief that the alleged forgery 
was in the handwriting of the accused. 

I would add that this case, involving as it does questions as to 
the course of business in a shop, seems to me to be one which 
should be tried with the assistance of some persons who are 
acquainted with the way in which business is carried on in this 
town, and it should therefore be tried either in this Court or by 
the District Judge of Colombo with assessors. 

Remitted for new trial. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 154 ) 



j]dS^24, THWAITES et al. v. JACKSON. 

(7. jR., Nuwara Eliya, 882. 

Brute animal — Injury by hunting doga — Liability oj owner for damages 
— Direct and conaequeritial damages. 

The owner of a pcK^k of hunting dogs, which killed a calf while 
standing loose on a high road, is liable in damages to the owner of 
the calf. 

The damages may include not only the value of the calf, but 
also the loss of milk consequent upon the death of the calf. 

Folkard v. Anderson (Rdmandthan's Reports, 1862, p. 68) conx- 
mented upon. 

Per BoNSER, C.J. — There seems to be no justification for the 
prox)osition stated in Folkard v, Anderson that the amount of 
compensation should not exceed the value of the animal which 
caused the injury. 



THE plaintiffs raised this action for the recovery of damages 
arising from the loss of a calf killed by some hounds belonging 
to the defendant. Plaintiffs claimed Bs. 20 as the value of the 
calf, and Rs. 80 for loss of milk and butter consequent upon the 
death of the calf. 

The defendant pleaded that the plaintiffs were not entitled to 
maintain this action, and answering to the merits, averred that 
while he was exercising with all proper care and precaution the 
right of hunting with his hounds, the calf in question strayed on 
the road, crossing the trail or scent of the defendant's hounds, 
and was seized and killed by them, notwithstanding aU his efforts 
to prevent it : that the plaintiffs by their negligence contributed 
towards the accident ; and that he tendered Rs. 20 to the 
plaintiffs as the value of the calf, which they refused to accept. 
He denied that plaintiffs had suffered any other damage. 

The Commissioner held that plaintiffs' action was maintainable 
in law, but dismissed it, being of opinion that ** the first plaintiff 
'' was in the wrong in allowing his calf to stray on to and along 
" a public highway untended, and the defendant was in his right 
'* when he passed along the highway with his hounds coupled." 

The plaintiffs appealed. 

Domhorst (Jayeuxtrdene with him), for appellant, — 

The Commissioner is wrong in holding that the defendant is not 
liable in damages to the plaintiff for the injuries caused by. his dogs. 

Digitized by VjOOQI€ 






( 155 ) 

The case of Folhard v, Anderson (RdmandOum, 1860S2, p. 68) ^^ 
settles the question. The law is also stated in Voet, IX, tit. 7, p. Bon8bb,C.J. 
538 ; also in Van Leeuvxn'a Commentaries, hh, IV. ok. 39, § 6. 

Batoa, for respondent, — 

The defendant is not liable, because the calf was in a place 
where it ought not to have been, and the plaintiff contributed 
to the accident by which the injury was occasioned. The rule 
that the owner of a dog is liable for injuries which it caused to 
another's animal, whether or not the owner knew of the vicious 
propensities of the dog, must be taken with the limitation that the 
animal injured was lawfully at the place where it received 
the injury {footnote at p. 324 of Kotze'a translation of vol. II. of 
Van LeeutDcn's Commentaries, edition of 1886). The presence of 
the calf on the high road was a violation of section 94 of Ordinance 
No. 10 of 1861, it being an offence to turn loose an ox, horse, &c., 
on a high road. 



24th July, 1895. Bonsbr, C.J.— 

The facts are not really in dispute. The defendant is the owner 
of a pack of hounds : he had been out hunting with them, and was 
returning home in company with his brother with the hounds 
along the high road. On their way they passed the plaintiffs* 
house, which stands close to the road. The calf had strayed on the 
road ; the hounds seized it, and in spite of all the efforts of the 
defendant and his brother to prevent the hounds attacking the calf, 
tore it to pieces. The defendant, on finding out- who the owner 
of the calf was, seems to have acted as a man of good feeling would 
act. Seeing that his hounds had caused the death of this calf, 
he wrote to the plaintiff and offered her Rs. 20, at which he estimated 
the value of the calf, and an apology for what had happened. 

But it appears that the loss of the calf itself was not the only 
damage that restdted from the act of the hounds. The cow, the 
mother of the calf, which was giving milk, owing to the loss of 
the calf, suddenly ceased to give milk. It is stated to be a well 
known fact that in Ceylon milch kine, if they lose their calf, cease 
to give milk, and that therefore the death of the calf necessarily 
occasioned further damage by reason of the loss of milk. The 
plaintiff therefore declined to accept the Rs. 20 offered, and claimed 
an additional sum of Rs. 80 for loss of the milk. 

I think that under the circumstances the loss of the milk was^<^ I 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( l.^>8 ) 

1895. a natural and probable consequenoe of the death of the calf, and 
BoKSER,C.J. therefore, if the defendant was liable for the death of the calf, 
he must be liable for these further damages. 

The question, therefore, which we have to consider is, whether 
the defendant is liable for the death of the calf. The law which 
governs the case of injuries caused by animals U the Roman- Dutch 
law, which differs from the English law. The law will be found 
stated in Voety bk, IX. tit. 1, under the heading Si qtuidrupea pauperiem 
fecisse diccUur, and, shortly speaking, it is this, that if an animal 
of an ordinarily gentle disposition commits any damage without any 
fault on the part of its owner, or without any provocation on the 
part of the person or animal injured, the action de pauperis lies at the 
suit of the person injured or the owner of the animal injured, against 
the owner of the animal which inflicted the injury. That action 
is a noxal action, that is to say, it is open to the defendant, instead 
of paying the damage, to hand over the animal to the plaintiff 
in satisfaction of his claim ; but if he did not hand over the animal, 
he was liable to pay whatever damage was assessed. If, however, 
there was any fault on the part of the owner of the animal, if he 
had incited the animal to commit the injury, or if he had taken 
the animal to a place where it ought not to be, or if he had not held 
the animal in when another man might have done so, or was in any 
other way in fault, then the actio de pauperie would not lie, but he 
was liable under the lex aquilia to the full amount of the damage, 
and could not avail himself of the privilege of giving up the animal 
in compensation. 

In the present case, it was said that the defendant was not liable 
because the calf was wrongfully on the highway, and reliance 
was placed upon a note in the English translation of Van Leeu- 
wen's Commentaries of the Roman-Dutch Law, vol. II., p. 324^ 
where the translator, the Chief Justice of the Transvaal, who is an 
eminent jurist, limits the general proposition as stated in the text 
of Van Leeuwen by this qualification, that the animal injured was 
lawfully at the place where it was injured, and for this qualifica- 
tion he refers to a case decided by the High Court of the Cape 
Colony. Unfortunately we have not got a report of that case, 
which it is quite possible to give that qualification a meaning 
not inconsistent with the law laid down by Van Leeuwen, It 
may be that, if the injured animal was trespassing on the property 
of the owner of the animal which did the injury, the owner would 
not be liable. But the facts of t lis case show nothing of that kind. 
As far as the defendant was concerned, the calf was lawfully in the 
place where it was injured. r "^^^1^ 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( 157 ) 

Then it was suggested that its presence on the road was unlaw- 1896. 
ful under section 94 of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1861, which bonsbb,C.J. 
renders it an offence to turn loose, or suffer to be turned loose, 
any ox, sheep, or goat on any road, but this calf was not an ox, nor 
was there any evidence that it was turned, or suffered to be turned 
loose on the road. 

Then it was suggested — and it was the ground apparently on 
which the Commissioner decided against the plaintiff — that the 
plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence by allowing the calf 
to be on the road untended. It seems to me that this defence 
cannot avail the defendant. Assuming that there was negligence 
in not having the calf attended by some one, yet the negligence, 
if it is to be a defence, must be shown to have contributed directly 
to the death of the calf. 

There is no evidence to show that, if some one had been there 
in charge of the calf, the hounds would not have killed it. If the 
defendant and his brother could not prevent the hounds from 
killing the calf, it is not likely that anybody else would have been 
able to prevent it. This defence, if valid, would lead to this result : 
that all persons must cease to use the high road for the passage of 
calves and such-like animals when the defendant's pack of hounds 
is likely to pass that way. That is a proposition which refutes 
itself. 

I therefore hold that the defendant is liable for the death of 
this calf, and that he is liable to the amount of damages claimed 
by the plaintiff. 

But as a matter of fact the question of the defendant's liability 
was never in dispute. 

Two issues were framed by the Judge — first, did the action lie ? . 
which he decided in favour of the plaintiff ; second, if it did lie, 
what was the amount of damages ? 

The only issue on which evidence was given was that as to the 
quantum of damages, and it appears to me that the Commissioner 
was wrong, after trying the question as to the quantum of damages, 
in turning round and dismissing the action without giving the 
parties an opportunity of adducing evidence on the issue of liability. 
In fact, he decided against the plaintiff without hearing her. The 
only evidence given for the plaintiff was evidence as to the amount 
of damages. 

I may mention that in the case of Folkard v. Anderson (Rdma- 
ndihan's Reports, 1860 — 62, p. 68) the law on this subject of 
injuries by animals is fully laid down. There is, however, one 
statement in the judgment in that case which I think the 
authorities hardly support. It is there stated that the limit of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 158 ) 

1896. the liability of an innocent owner is that the amount to be given for 
Bo^ssB, C.J. compensation must not exceed the value of the animal which did the 
injury. I doubt whether that is a correct statement of the law. My 
impression is that there is no such limit to the amount of compensation. 
It is the duty of the Court to award the amount of damages, what- 
ever that may be, and the only way by which the defendant can 
escape the payment of the full amount of the damages is by 
surrendering the animal which caused the injury. 



1896. BALTHAZAR v, GUNAWARDANA. 

Jfdy 26. 
^ P. C, Oalle, 17,318.- 

Penal Code, a. 199 — Intentional omission to give information of offence 
— Criminal Procedure Code, s. 24 — Duty of police officer- - 
Mistake — Punishment 

Where a headman, who had received information that A had 
coraitted rape on B, omitt^ to inform the nearest Police 
Magistrate of the same, and it appeared that such omission was due 
to the belief that, as the parties were willing to settle the matter 
by marriage so as to avoid the disgrace of a public exjjosure, he 
was not bound to communicate the information, — 

Held, the offence of the headman was, in the circumstances, 
committed under a mistake as to his duty, and that his punish- 
ment should be therefore nominal. 
• 

The facts of this case appear in the judgment of the Supreme 
Court. 

Damhorst and Alms, for defendant appellant. 



2()th July, 1895. Bonser, C.J.— 

The appellant in this case has been found guilty of ** omitting 
*'to give information he was legally bound to give" under section 
199 of the Penal Code, and sentenced to pay a fine of Rs, 50, or in 
default of payment to undergo six weeks' rigororis imprisonment. 
There is evidence that it is the duty of the appellant, as a police 
officer, to give information to the nearest Police Magistrate of 
every offence that is provided by section 24 of the Criminal 
Procedure Code. The offence as to which this appellant omitted 
to give information was rape. It appears that the voung wpman 

Digitized by CjOOQIC 



( 159 ) 

complained to the Mudaliyar, who is the superior of the police l^^^- 

officer, that she had been ravished by her cousin Janis. The Bonseb.C.J. 

Mudaliyar had the young man arrested and sent him to the appellant 

to deal with the case. The parties were evidently willing to settle 

the matter by the very natural method of the young man marrying 

the young woman. The Mudaliyar said that he could not allow 

an amicable settlement. Then they go to the house of the young 

woman, a sort of conference is held, and the relations being willing 

to settle the matter by the young man manying the girl, notice of 

an intended marriage between the parties is accordingly given to 

the B^istrar on the same day. However, before the day, Janis 

absconded, and thereupon these proceedings were taken against the 

appellant for not reporting the information he had received to 

the nearest Police Magistrate. There is no doubt that the appellant 

did receive information of the alleged rape, because the evidence 

shows that the girl did make a complaint to him that she had been 

ravished, and that the overtures for a settlement were made in his 

presence. It is admitted that no report was made ; but I think, 

under the circumstances, the parties being willing to settle, to 

avoid the disgrace of a public exposure of the young woman's 

shame, that the appellant might have reasonably believed that he 

was not bound to report the matter. At the same time, the law 

is clear that he ought to have made a report. 

The Magistrate has sentenced the appellant to pay a fine of 
Rs. 50, or in default of payment to undergo six weeks' rigorous 
imprisonment. The offence under the circumstances was a 
technical offence, and I think that a nominal fine of Re. 1 will 
meet the justice of the case. 

It must not be understood that I shall regard with leniency a 
case in which crime has been deliberately suppressed. This Court 
will visit with severity any case of deliberate suppression of inf or- • 
mation as to crime. The present case I consider is one in which 
the appellant made a mistake as to his duty. 

Sentence modified. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 160 ) 

LE MESURIER v. LE MESURIER et al. 
D. C. Mdtara, 502. 

Marriage between British or European apouaes resident in the Idand — 
Matrimonial law of Ceylon — Proclamation of 23fd September, 1799 
--CharUraoJUOl and 1833— -Scope ofs. 697 of Civil Procedure Code 
— ApplicabilUy of Roman- Dutch law — Authority of International 
law in the consideration of jurisdiction of Courts — Remedies for 
matrimonial misconduct aliowable by Courts of the residence of 
the spouses — Action for divorce — for judical separation — for 
alimony. 

The matrimonial law of Ceylon, established by the Proclamation 
of 23rd September, 1799, was superseded, or at least modified, in so 
far as it related to British and European residents, by the enact- 
ments of the Royal Charter of 1801. But upon the repeal of those 
enactments by the Charter of Justice of the 18th February, 1833, 
the Proclamation of 1799 was revived, and the matrimonial law 
applicable to such residents %gain became the Roman-Dutch law. 

The Roman-Dutch law does not give jurisdiction to the Courts 
of the country in which spouses domiciled elsewhere are for the 
time resident, to entertain a divorce suit. 

Neither does section 597 of the Civil Procedure Code, nor did 
previous enactments to a siroilair effect, empower a District Court 
to entertain any divorce suit which was not previously cognizable 
by the Courts of the Island. 

According to international law, which is authoritative in the 
absence of any municipal law to the contrary, the true domicile 
of the married pair, as distinguished from their so-called matri- 
monial domicile, affords the only test of jurisdiction to dissolve 
their marriage ; and the Courts of England will not recognize as 
effectual the decree of a foreign court divorcing spouses who at its 
date had their domicile in Emgland. 

But though a District Court of the Island cannot decree a dissolu- 
tion of marriage in the c€«e of such residents, yet it may, under the 
rules of international law, administer other remedies for matri> 
monial misconduct, such as judicial separation on the groimd of 
cruelty, and alimony for desertion. 

THE plaintiff in this case appealed to Her Majesty the Queen 
in Her Privy Council against the judgment of the Supreme 
Court delivered on the 29th June, 1895, setting aside the judgment 
of the District Court of Matara, and dismissing plaintiff's action 
with costs. 

The facts of the case are fully set forth in the judgment of the 
Lords of the Judical Committee of the Privy Council, namely : — 

The Lord Chancellor, Lord Watson, Lord Hobhousk, 
Lord Macnaohten, Lord Morris, and Sir R. Couch. 

Their judgment was delivered by Lord Watson, as follows : — 

In February, 1883, the appellant, who is a member of tho 
Ceylon Civil Service, was married in England to a French lady, 
the leading respondent in this appeal, who will hereinafter be 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 161 ) 

referred to as " the respondent." From the date of their marriage ^^^^- 
until the commencement of this suit the spouses had their principal Privy 
residence in Ceylon, where the appellant was necessarily detained ^^^^^^'^ 
by his official duties. In July, 1892, he was Assistant Government 
Agent of the District of Matara ; and on the 12th of that month he 
brought the present action before the District Court of Matara 
against his wife and three other defendants, praying for a divorce 
a vinculo matrimonii and other remedies, upon the allegation that 
she had committed adultery with one of these defendants in the 
year 1887, with another of them in the year 1889, and with the third 
of them at various times between May, 1891, and April, 1892. 
Except on the last of these occasions, when the adultery was allied 
to have taken place at Kandy, none of these matrimonial offences 
was said to have been committed within the jurisdiction of the 
Courts of Ceylon. The loci assigned for these acts on the two 
other occasions were, on the first the steamship Goorkha, during 
a voyage from England to Colombo, and on the second the steam- 
ship Bavenna, during a voyage from Colombo to MarseiUes, and a 
hotel at Marseilles and in Paris. 

In her defence the respondent pleaded that the District Court 
had not jurisdiction to entertain the suit. Upon the merits she 
denied all three charges of adultery, and, with respect to the first 
charge, pleaded alternatively that it had been condoned by the 
appellant. Two of the other defendants, who are alleged to have 
been participant in her adulterous acts on the first and third 
occasions, also lodged defences, denying the charges made against 
them, and pleaded that they were not subject to the jurisdiction 
of the Court. The defendant in the first charge also set up the 
plea of condonation. 

The appellant is an Englishman by birth ; and at the time when 
this action was instituted, although officially resident within the 
District of Matara, he admittedly retained, and still continues to 
retain, his English domicile of origin. He had previously brought 
a divorce suit, foimded on the same charges of adultery, and directed 
against the same parties, before the Divorce Court in England, and 
these proceedings appear to be still in dependence. At the time 
when they were dted to appear in the District Court of Matara no 
one of the three persons, who are co-defendants with the respondent, 
was resident in, or was alleged by the appellant to have any 
connection with the Island. They are described in his plaint as 
" of Calcutta, India," and " of London, England." 

The District Judge ruled that jurisdiction to proceed in the 
suit was conferred upon him by section 597 of the Civil Procedure ^ 

Vol. I. 12(54)29^ C^OOgle 



( 162 ) 

1^^^- Code, No. 2 of 1889, an enactment which their Loidahips will 
Privy have occasion to notice more fully. The case acjcoidingly 'W'ent 
CJoxmoiL. ^ ^ai before him ; and, on considering the evidence, he found 
that the first charge of adultery had been proved, but that it had 
been condoned by the appellant, and that the second and third 
charges had also been established. In respect of the latter findings, 
he granted a decree nisi to become absolute in four months, unless 
good cause were shown against it. On appeal to the Supreme 
Ck>urt that order was reversed, and the appellant's suit dismissed 
with costs. 

Acting Chief Justice Lawrib and Acting Puisne Justice Brownb, 
who "constituted the Court of Appeal, based their judgment upon 
two independent grounds. They held, in the first place, that the 
Courfcs of Ceylon had no jurisdiction to dissolve a marriage between 
British or European spouses resident in the Island. Such juris- 
diction appeared to them to be expressly excluded by section 53 of 
the Royal Charter of the 18th April, 1801, which enacted that the 
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Island, at that time the 
only Court competent to try matrimonial causes, should be exercised 
'' towards and upon all the Dutch inhabitants of the said town, 
'' fort, and district, according to the laws and usages in that behalf 
'* in force at the time the said settlements, territories, and depen- 
" dencies came into our possession ; and towards and upon the said 
'* British and Europeans, and licensed persons hereinbefore described 
'' resident in any the said settlements, territories, and dependenciee, 
'' the Ecclesiastical law, as the same is now used and exercised in 
** the Diocese of London in Great Britain." That enactment 
applied to British residents in Ceylon the matrimonial law of 
England as it existed in the year 1801 ; and if it had stood un- 
altered, the conclusion of the learned Judges would have been 
irresistible. They held, in the second place, that the second 'and 
third charges of adultery, which were subsequent to condonation, 
had not been established by the evidence. 

Their Lordships, in deciding this appeal, must observe the limits 
which the law of Ceylon imposes upon the matrimonial jurisdiction 
exercisable by the tribunal before which the action was originally 
brought. It therefore becomes necessary to consider whether the 
District Court of Matara was competent to entertain the action 
and to pronounce decree of divorce a vinmlo. To that point, 
which is one of some importance to British and other European 
residents in the Island, the arguments of counsel on both sides of 
the bar were exclusively directed. 

Jurisdiction in matrimonial causes, which, by the Royal 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 1C3 ) 



189A. 



Privy 
CounoHm 



Charter of 1801, was vested in the Supreme Court of Judicature, has 
by subsequent legislation been extended to the District Courts of the 
Island. The last of a series of enactments to the same effect is to 
be found in section 697 of the Procedure Code of 1889, which 
provides that ^' any husband or wife may present a plaint to the 
" I>istrict Court within the limits of which he or she, as the case 
" may be, resides, praying that his or her marriage may, by the law 
*' applicable in this Colony "to his or her case, be dissolved." The 
enactment, like those which preceded it, refers to procedure only, 
and distributes the matrimonial jurisdiction which may be com- 
petently exercised by its ' tribunals among the various Courts of 
the Colony. The Judge of the District Court assumed that it gave 
him jurisdiction to try the present case, but it is clear that neither 
section 597 of the Code, nor previous enactments to a similar effect, 
empowered him to entertain any divorce suit which was not 
previously cognizable by the Courts of Ceylon. 

If section 53 of "the Charter of 1801, upon which the learned 
Judges of the Supreme Court relied, had continued in force, it 
would have been beyond the competency of the District Court 
of Matara to give the appellant a more stringent remedy than a 
8ex)aration a menad et thoro. But it does not appear to have been 
brought under the notice of the Appellate Judges that the whole 
clauses of the Charter of 1801, including section 53, were revoked 
and annulled by the Ceylon Charter of Justice of the 18th February, 
1833, Since that date there has been no legislation regulating 
the jurisdiction of the Courts of Ceylon in matrimonial causes 
arising between British or European spouses. In these circum- - 
stances, it becomes necessary to consider, in the first place, what is 
the present law of the Island by which such jurisdiction is regulated ; 
and, in the second place, whether, according to that law, the present 
suit is maintainable. 

The first of these questions appears to their Lordships to admit 
only of one answer. After the annexation of the Dutch Settle- 
ments in the Island of Ceylon to the British Crown, a commission 
was granted on the 19th April, 1788, to Frederick North, appointing 
him to be Governor and Commander-in-Chief, and containing 
instructions to him with respect to the admixdstration of justice 
and other matters. In pursuance of these instructions, the Governor 
issued a Boyal Proclamation, promulgated at Colombo on the 
i53id September, 1799, which declared that the administration of 
justice and police was thenceforth and during His Majesty's pleasure 
to be exercised by all Courts of Judicature, Civil and Qiiminal, 
''according to the laws and institutions that subsisted under 
"the ancient government of the United Provinces, subjec^tCjOOQle 



COTTNOILt 



( 164 ) 

1^^^- " to such deviations and alterations by any of the respective po-wvn 
PuvY ** and authorities hereinbefore mentioned, and to such deviations 
" and alterationB as We shall by these presents, or by any future . 
'' Proclamation, and in pursuance of the authorities confided to Us, 
'' deem it proper and beneficial for the purposes of justice to oidain 
*' and publish, or which shall or may hereafter be by lawful 
" authority ordained and published." 

The Matrimonial law of the Colony, established by the Procla- 
mation of 1799, was superseded, or at leasb modified, in so far as 
it related to British and European residents, by the enactments of 
the Royal Charter of 1801. But it does not appear to their Loid> 
ships to admit of doubt that, as soon as these enactments were 
swept away by the legislation of 1833, the Proclamation was 
restored to its origixial force, and the matrimonial law app]icabA& 
to British or European residents in Ceylon again became the 
Roman-Dutch law which had prevailed in the Colony before its 
annexation. 

Accordingly, the prsejudicial question which their Lordships 
have to decide is, whether the Roman-Dutch law, or any modifi- 
cation of it introduced into the Colony before the year 1798, gives 
the Courts of the Island j urisdiction to dissolve a marriage contracted 
in England by British subjects, who, though resident within the 
forum, still retain their English domicile. No authority can 
have a material bearing upon that point which does not relate 
to the dissolution of marriage ; because there are unquestionably 
other remedies for matrimonial misconduct, short of dissolution, 
which, according to the rules of the jiia geniium, may be adndnis* 
tered by the Courts of the country in which spouses, domiciled 
elsewhere, are for the time resident. If, for instance, a husband 
deserts his wife, although their residence be of a temporary 
character, these Courts may compel him to aliment her ; and, in 
oases where the residence is of a more permanent character, and 
her husband treats his wife with such a degree of cruelty as to 
render her continuance in his society intolerable, the weight of 
opinion among international jurists and the general practice is to 
the effect that the Courts of the residence are warranted in giving 
the remedy of judicial separation, without reference to the domicile 
of the parties. But the considerations which justify the Courts 
of the residence in administering remedies for the protection o£ 
mutual rights incidental to marriage, which do not involve disniptioxx 
of the marriage bond, have little or no application to proceedings 
taken for the purpose of putting an end to the marriagie, and 
remanding the spouses to the condition of single peraonsi 

igi ize y g 



( 1B5 ) 

In order to sustain the competency of the present suit, it is ^^^^* 
necessary for the appellant to show that the jurisdiction assumed Pbiyt 
by the District Judge of Matara was derived, either from some C<>'^<'n^ 
recognized principle of the general law of nations, or from some 
domestic rule of the Roman-Dutch law. If either of these points 
were established, the jurisdiction of the District Court would be 
placed beyond question ; but the efifect of its decree divorcing the 
spouses would not in each case be the same. When the jurisdiction 
of the Court is exercised according to the rules of International 
law, as in the case where the parties have their domicile within 
lie forum, its decree dissolving their marriage ought to be respected 
by the tribunals of every civilized country. The opinions expressed 
by the English Common Law Judges in LoUey's case {2 Ru88 and 
-Ry. 237) gave rise to a doubt, whether that principle was in consist- 
ency with the law of England, which at that time did not allow 
a marriage to be judicially dissolved. That doubt has since been 
dispelled ; and the law of England was, in their Lordships' opinion, 
correctly stated by Lord Westbury in Shaw v. OouM (3 E, d^ I., 
Ap. 85), in these terms : — ** The position that the tribunal of a 
*' foreign country having jurisdiction to dissolve the marriages of 
*' its own subjects, is competent to pronounce a similar decree 
*' between English subjects who were married in England, but 
'* who before and at the time of the suit are permanently domiciled 
** within the jurisdiction of such foreign tribunal, such decree being 
** made in a l>ona fide suit without collusion or concert, is a position 
" consistent with all the English decisions, although it may not be 
** consistent with the resolution commonly cited as the resolution 
" of the Judges in LoUey's case." On the other hand, a decree of 
divorce a vincvlo, pronounced by a Court whose jurisdiction is 
solely derived from some rule of municipal law peculiar to its 
forum, cannot, when it trenches upon the interests of any other 
country to whose tribunals the spouses are amenable, claim extra 
territorial authority. 

Mr. Mayne, in his elaborate and able argument for the appellant, 
did not assert the existence of any special rule in the Roman - 
Dutch law giving jurisdiction to entertain a divorce suit in such 
circumstances as occur in the present case. He maintained that 
in addition to jurisdiction arising from the fact of the spouses 
having their domicile of succession within the territory, which he 
admitted to be universally acknowledged, the general law of nations 
recognizes that a concurrent and equally effective jurisdiction to 
divorce is created by the spouses' residence within the terri- 
tory of such permanence as to constitute what has been 
" termed a matrimonial domicile, " although not of sufficient 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 166 ) 

1895. permanence to fix their true domicile there. In support of the 
^^ theory of a matrimonial domicile, as distinguished from the domicile 
CouNoiL. of succession, the learned counsel relied mainly, if not exclusively, 
upon certain decisions by the CJourts of England and Scotland, which 
he represented as conclusive in his favour. Their Lordships will at 
once proceed to examine these authorities, beginning with the 
English cases which do not appear to them to be either consistent or 
satisfactory. The Scotch cases are not, in their Lordships' opinion, 
more satisfactory than the English ; but, so far as they go, they have 
at least the merit of consistency. 

The first in date of the English cases is ToUemache v, ToUemache 
(1 8. 4? T, 557), which was decided by Williams, J., Martin, B., and 
the Judge Ordinary. The suit was for divorce at the instance 
of the husband, who was throughout a domiciled Englishman. 
The parties were first married at Gretna Green, and thereafter 
entered into a regular marriage in London in August, 1837. From 
that date, with the exception of occasional visits to England and 
Wales, they resided continuously in Scotland ; and on the 3rd of 
July, 1841, the husband obtained a decree of divorce from the 
Scotch Courts of adtdtery of the wife committed in Scotland. 
In her answer to the English suit, which was instituted eighteen 
years afterwards, the wife also prayed the Court for a decree, declaring 
her marriage with the petitioner to be dissolved. The Court 
granted decree of dissolution, with the observation : — " Sitting 
" here as an English Court, we cannot recognize that divorce 
'' (i.e., the Scotch) as putting an end to the marriage bond of a 
** domiciled Englishman." 

The next case in order, Ydverton v. Ydverton (1 S. <«? T. 574)^ 
was a suit at an alleged wife's instance for restitution of conjugal 
rights, which was dismissed by the Judge Ordinary. The husband, 
who was called as respondent, was not resident, and had never 
been domiciled in England. 

Their Lordships have noticed these cases because they were 
founded upon in the argument addressed to them. They need 
hardly observe that in neither of them was any question raised 
in regard to matrimonial domicile. In ToUemache v. TMemache 
it might very well have been contended that foiu: years' residence 
there have given the spouses a matrimonial domicile in Scotland ; 
but that view of the law does not seem to have occurred either 
to the parties or to the Bench. 

In the next case, Brodie v. Brodie (2 8, d: T, 259), the petitioner, 
being the husband, was resident, but had not his domicile in 
England. He had been married to the respondent in Tasmania, 
and left her behind him in Melbourne, when he came to 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 167 ) 

Great Britain. His wife never came to England, and the acts of 1895. 

adultery charged in his petition were committed in the colony. In Pbjvy 

giving decree, the Court, consisting of the Judge Ordinary, with Council. 

Wightman and Williams, J.J., observed : — ** We think that the peti- 

*' tioner was bona fide resident here, not casually, or as a traveller ; 

" after he became resident here, his wife was carrjdng on an 

' ' adulterous intercourse in Australia. He is, therefore, entitled to a 

'* decree nisi for a dissolution of his marriage." These observations 

go the whole length of affirming that the residence of the husband in 

a country where he has not a domicile, if such residence be not 

casual or that of a traveller, gives the Courts of that country divorce 

jurisdiction over him, and also over his wife, although she should 

continue to reside in the country where they both have their domicile 

of succession. 

In Manning v. Manning {2 P. d; D, 223), the Judge Ordinary 
dismissed a petition for divorce at the instance of an Irish husband, 
upon the ground that he was not a bona fide resident in England. 

The next authority adduced for the appellant was Wilson v, 
Wilson (2 P. d? D. 435), which their Lordships notice because of 
its connection with a Scotch case between the same parties to 
which they will have occasion to refer. At the time of their 
marriage in 1861 both the spouses had their domicile of origin in 
Scotland, and they continued to reside there until November, 1866, 
when the husband discovered that the lady had been guilty of 
adultery. He then went to England and lived there with his 
mother until April, 1871, when he presented his petition to the 
Judge Ordinary. During its dependencies he brought an action in 
the Court of Session, and obtained a decree of divorce, after it 
had been found that he was stiU domiciled in Scotland. Lord 
Penzance, upon the evidence before him, held that the petitioner 
had, in April, 1871, acquired an English domicile, and he accordingly 
pronounced a similar decree, upon the ground that the Scotch 
Courts had no jurisdiction. No question as to what is called 
matrimonial as distinguished from true domicile was raised in 
the case. The petitioner was admittedly resident in England, 
and was foimd to have his domicile there ; but Lord Penzance, in 
delivering judgment, expressed his opinion to the effect that 
actual domicile afforded the only true test of jurisdiction in such 
cases. 

The last, and not the least important of the English authorities 
requiring to be considered is Niboyet v. Niboyet {3 P. D. 1), Shortly 
stated, the facts were these. A Frenchman and an English 
woman were married at Gibraltar in the year 1866. In 1875^"^^^!^ 

•^ Digitized byVjOOQlC 



( 168 ) 

1896. the husband went to Newcastle-on-Tyne, and continued to reside 
Privy there until October, 1876, when his wife filed a petition in the Divorce 
Coukciim Division of the High Court of Justice, alleging adultery, coupled 
with desertion, for two years and upwards. It was admitted that 
the respondent, being in the Consular service of France, had never 
lost his domicile of origin. The Judge Ordinary (Sir R. Phillimore) 
held that he had no jurisdiction to dissolve the marriage (3 P. D. -52). 
On appeal his judgment was reversed by James and Cotton, L.J.J., 
the present Master of the Rolls (then Lord Justice Brett) dissenting. 
The main reason assigned for their decision by the learned Judges 
of the majority was that, before the Act of 1867 became law, the 
petitioner would have been entitled to sue her husband in the 
Bishop's Court, although he was not domiciled in England, and to 
ask either for restitution of conjugal rights, or for a divorce a mensd 
et tharo, and in either case for proper alimony ; and consequently 
that, after the Act of 1857 passed, jurisdiction in divorce might be 
exercised in the same circumstances. There appears to their 
Lordships to be an obvious fallacy in that reasoning. It is not 
doubtful that there may be residence without domicile sufficient 
to sustain a suit for restitution of conjugal rights, for separation, 
or for aliment ; but it does not follow that such residence must 
also give jurisdiction to dissolve the marriage. Their Lordships 
cannot construe section 27 of the Act of 1857 as giving the English 
Court divorce jurisdiction in all cases where any other matrimonial 
suit would previously have been entertained in the Bishop's 
Court. 

The only Scotch authority cited by Mr. Mayne was PUt v. Pitt 
{1 Seas, Ca, 3rd series 103, and 4 Macq, Ap. Ca. 62?), But in 
order to ascertain whether, and if so to what extent, the d<5ctrine 
of matrimonial domicile is regarded in Scotland as a good founda- 
tion for the exercise of divorce jurisdiction, their Lordships find 
it necessary to refer to. the other cases in which the doctrine has 
been applied or discussed by a Scotch Court. Although the 
Matrimonial Courts of Scotland had previously exhibited no lack 
of ingenuity in discovering grounds for exercising divorce juris- 
diction in cases where the parties had their domicile elsewhere, 
it was not until the year 1862 that the idea of a matrimonial domicile, 
other than true domicile, and resting upon a somewhat indefinite 
permanency of residence, which had been foreshadowed in Shields r. 
Shields (4 Sess. Ca, 2nd series 142), was first formulated and applied 
in Jack v. Jack (24 Sess. Ca. 2nd series 467). 

In that case both spouses were Scotch, ^(J,^g^|»r their marriage 



( 1G9 ) 

they continued to live together in Scotland until the year 1855, ^^^^' 

when the husband went to America andl)ecame a Minister of the Pbivt 

Gospel at Newburgh, in the State of New York, the wife continuing CouHoa. 

to reside in Scotland. Four and a half years afterwards the 

husband, who was still in America, brought his action founded on 

adultery committed by his wife in Scotland. It was met by the 

plea of no jurisdiction, and was heard before twelve Judges of the 

Court of Session, who upheld the jurisdiction of the Court by a 

majority of eleven to one. The late Lord President Inglis (at that 

tune Lord Justice Clerk) went upon the ground of matrimonial 

domicile, which he thus defined : — '" The true inquiry, I apprehend, 

" in every such case is, where is the home or seat of the marriage 

" for the time ; where are the spouses actually resident if they be 

*^ together ; or, if from any cause they are separate, what is the 

" place in which they are under obligation to come and renew, or 

** commence, their cohabitation as man and wife ? " Five other 

Judges took substantially the same view expressed in different 

language. Lord President McNeill, with two of their Lordships, 

concurred in the judgment, holding that the domicile of the married 

pair had never been transferred to any other country. Lord 

Eihloch and Lord Jerviswoode intimated their opinion that the 

true domicile of the husband was the only test of jurisdiction, but 

held that the husband was not shown to have lost his Scotch 

domicile. Lord Deas held that there was no jurisdiction, because 

the pursuer had acquired a new domicile in the United States. 

With regard to the matrimonial domicile, which found favour with 

some members of the Court, his Lordship observed : — " Neither 

* can I solve this case by what has been sometimes called the domicile 

* of the marriage. The phraseology appears to me to be calculated 
' to mislead. It is figurative, and wants judicial precision. There 

* is no third domicile involved apart from the domicile of the 
'husband and the domicile of the wife. Domicile belongs ex- 
' clusively to persons. Having ascertained the domicile of the 

* husband and the domicile of the wife, the inquiry into domicile 

* is exhausted." 

The doctrine of matrimonial domicile, as explained by the Lord 
Justice Clerk in Jack v. Jack, was subsequently applied by his 
Lordship and the other Judges of the Second Division in Hume 
V. Hume (24 Sees. Ca. 2nd series 1342), where they granted a decree 
of divorce for adultery to a wife whose husband had been in America 
for seventeen years, and was living with a woman whom he had 
married there. 

The next case, which is also the last case in which the so-called 
matrimonial domicile has been made - the ground of divorce, ^ j 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 170 ) 

1896. jurisdiction in Scotland, is Pitt v, Pitt, already mentioned. In that 
-p^^ case, Colonel Pitt, a domiciled Englishman and married there, 
Ck>xmoiL. went to Scotland, chiefly for the pmrpose of avoiding his creditors, 
leaving his wife in London. With the exception of occasional 
visits, in disguise, to relatives in England, he continued to reside 
in the Hebrides for six years, and then brought an action for 
divorce on the ground of adultery. His wife, who had never 
been in Scotland, appeared to defend, and pleaded that, her 
husband being domiciled in England, the Court of Session had 
no jurisdiction. After proof, the Lord Ordinary (Kinloch) found 
that the pursuer had acquired a domicile in Scotland, and gave 
him decree of divorce. His decision wbiS afi&rmed by the Second 
Division of the Court, who, differing from him on that point, 
came to the conclusion that the pursuer stiU retained his English 
domicile, but held that his residence in Scotland had been of saeh 
a character as to make that country the domicile of the marriage. 
On appeal to the House of Lords, these judgments were reversed, 
and the defender assoilzied from the conclusions of the action. 
At the bar of the House, the pursuer's counsel (Sir R. Phillimore, 
then Queen's Advocate, and Sir Hugh Cairns) intimated that 
" they had come to the resolution of abandoning as untenable the 
" ground on which the Second Division of the Court of Session 
" had rested their decision, namely, that divorce a vinctdo might be 
** validly granted to strangers not domiciled, though temporarily 
" resident, within the jurisdiction." They accordingly confined 
their argument in support of the judgments appealed from to an 
endeavour to show that Colonel Pitt had acquired a Scottish domicile. 
The Lord Chancellor (Westbury), in delivering judgment, referred 
to the course taken by counsel in these terms : — " K he was not 
** domiciled in Scotland to all intents and purposes, having relin- 
*' quished his original domicile and acquired a domicile in Scotland, 
" then by the concession of the counsel at the bar, a concession 
*' which is, I trust, in the opinion of your Lordships, quite in 
" accordance with the law of the case, it will be impossible to 
" maintain the order which has been pronounced on the Court 
" below." Neither Lord Chelmsford nor Lord ELingsdown, who 
sat with the Lord Chancellor, took any exception to that statement. 

After the observations made by Lord Westbury in Pitt v. Pitt, 
from which the other noble and learned Lords present did not 
express dissent, it wotdd be very rash to afiSrm that, according to 
the law of Scotland, mere matrimonial domicile affords any grotmd 
for jurisdiction to divorce. There is no trace of the doctrine 
to be found in the Institutes of Scottish law,, or in the 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 171 ) 

earlier decisions of the Court ; and, during the thirty-one yoars which 1895. 
have elapsed since the case of Pitt v. Pitt was decided by the Pbitt 
House of Lords, the divorce jurisdiction of the Court of Session Council. 
has never been exercised on that ground. It has, however, been 
twice referred to since that date — ^firstjin the year 1872, in Wilson v. 
Wilson {10 Sess, Ca, 3rd series 573) : and again, ten years after- 
wards, in Starvet v. Staveri (9 Sess, Ca. 4th series 529). 

In Wilson v. Wilson the parties were the same as in the English 
case already noticed. On his finding that his English suit was met 
by the plea that he retained his Scottish domicile, the husband 
brought an action of divorce in the Court of Session, and was there 
met by the plea that he had acquired an English domicile. The 
Lord Ordinary, whose judgment was afiBrmed by the First Division, 
found that he was domiciled in Scotland, and, notwithstanding 
the dependence of the English suit, granted decree of divorce. 
In the note appended to his judgment the Lord Ordinary (Ormidale) 
observed, that ** having regard to the judgment in the House of 
*' Lords in Pitt v, Pitt in April, 1864, any such thing as a consistorial 
" or matrimonial domicile must be held to be unknown to the law." 
lu delivering the judgment of the Inner House, Lord President 
Inglis said : — *' In cases of divorce, jurisdiction depends upon 
' ' domicile, and the domicile in this case is here. And if the domicile, 
" and consequently the jurisdiction, is here, they can be nowhere 
'* else. I have always been of opinion, as I expressed myself in the 
" case of Pitt — and I have never seen any reason to change that 
" opinion — that for the purposes of divorce there may be a matri- 
" monial domicile, differing from the absolute domicile which will 
'* rule succession," Their Lordships find it difficult to reconcile 
these statements. If there really were such a thing as a matri- 
monial domicile recognized by general law, it is not easy to compre- 
hend why the jurisdiction could be nowhere else than in Scotland. 
On that assumption the pursuer had certainly acquired a matri- 
monial domicile in England by five years' continuous residence 
there ; and, in deference to international rules, the Scotch Court 
ought not to have entertained the same lis which was already 
pending in the proper Court of the matrimonial domicile. 

In Stavert v. Staveri the Lord Ordinary refused to grant a divorce 
to a foreigner who had come to Scotland with his paramour 
anji had lived there for five months, with the sole object 
of obtaining a divorce from his wife. The pursuer maintained, 
alternatively, that he had acquired either a real domicile or a , 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 172 ) 

1890, matrimomal domicile in Scotland. The Lord President (Inglis) 
Pbjw held that he was possessed of neither; and with reference 
CkyuNoni. ^^ matrimonial domicile his Lordship said : — " There has been a 
" good deal of speculation on this point, but fortunately it is not 
" necessary to deal with the question here. It has not yet been 
'* decided in the Court of last resort." Lord Deas reiterated the 
views which he has expressed in Pitt v. Pitt; and Lord Shand, 
dealing with the same subject, said : — '* I have great difficulty 
'' in finding any sound principle of general application which 
** would induce foreign Courts to give weight to a decree in 
** his country based on such jurisdiction ; and I have, further, 
** great difficulty in finding any rule or standard as to the 
'* nature and extent of the residence which would be necessary or 
" sufficient to found such a jurisdiction." 

When carefully examined, neither the English nor the Scotch 
decisions are, in their Lordships' opinion, sufficient to establish 
the proposition that, in either of these countries, there exists a 
recognized rule of general law, to the effect that a so-called matri- 
monial domicile gives jurisdiction to dissolve marriage. 

ToUemache v. ToUemache, which was decided by three Judges 
in 1859, shortly after the passing of the Divorce Act, appears to 
be an authority to the contrary. The learned Judges sustained 
the jurisdiction of the English Court, which was the forum of 
the husband's domicile, and disregarded as incompetent a decree 
of the Court of Session dissolving his marriage, although he had 
a matrimonial domicile in Scotland, where he had bona fide resided 
for four years with his wife, neither casually, nor as a traveller. 
Then in Brodie v. Brodie, in the year 1861, three learned Judges 
decided the opposite, holding that residence of that kind, which had 
been found in ToUemache v. ToUemache to be insufficient to give 
jurisdiction to a Scotch Court, where the domicile was English, was, 
nevertheless, sufficient to give jurisdiction to themselves where 
the domicile was Australian. In Wilson v, Wilson jurisdiction was 
sustained by Lord Penzance upon the ground that the petitioner 
had acquired an English domicile, with an expression of opinion 
by his Lordship that such domicile ought to be the sole ground of 
jurisdiction to dissolve marriage. In Niboyet v. Niboyet, Sir Robert 
Phillimore expressed a similar opinion, and dismissed the suit of tiie 
petitioner, who had a matrimonial domicile in England, which fully 
answered the definition of such domicile given either in Brodie 
V. Brodie or in PiU v. Pitt. His decision was, no doubt, reversed 
in the Court of Appeal ; but it has the support of the present 
Master of the Rolls, and their Lordships have already pointed 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 173 ) 

out that the judgment of the majority was mainly, if not altogether, 1896. 
based upon a reason which will not bear scrutiny. Privy 

CoXTNOni. 

The Scotch decisions appear to their Lordships to be equally 
inefficient to show that a matrimonial domicile is a recognized 
ground of divorce jurisdiction. So far as they go they are consistent 
enough, but the doctrine appears to have had a very brief existence 
because the three cases in which it was applied all occurred between 
the .7th February and the 14th December in the year 1862. 
Although, o\ving to the course taken by the appellant's counsel in 
Pitl V. Pitt, the House of Lords had not an oppoitunity of expressly 
deciding the point, there can be little doubt that the approval of 
the coiu^e adopted by counsel, which was openly expressed by Lord 
Westbury, has had the effect of discrediting the doctrine in Scot- 
land ; and it is impossible to affirm that the Court of Session would 
now give effect to it. The eminent Judge,* who in 1862 was the 
first to give a full and clear exposition of the doctrine of matrimonial 
domicile, spoke of it, in the year 1882, not as a doctrine accepted 
in the law of Scotland, but as matter of speculation. 

It is a circumstance not undeserving of notice that the learned 
Judges, whether English or Scotch, who have expressed judicial 
opinions in favour of a matrimonial domicile, have abstained 
from reference to those treatises on International law which are 
generally regarded as authoritative, in the absence of any municipal 
law to the contrary. The reason for their abstinence is probably 
to be found in the circumstance, that nothing could be extracted 
from these sources favourable to the view which they took. Their 
Lordships are of opinion that in deciding the present case, on appeal 
from a Colony which is governed by the principles of the Roman- 
Dutch Jaw, these authorities ought not to be overlooked. 

Huber {IM). 1, tit. 5, 8. 2. De Confl. Leg,) states the rule of Inter- 
national law in these terms : — " Rectores imperiorum id com iter agunt, 
" tUjnra cujuaque populi intra terminos ejvs exercita, teneant vhique 
" euam vim, qudterma nihil potestati autjuri aUeriua imperantis ejusque 
** civium prcBJudix^etur.'* That passage was cited with approbation 
by Lord Cranworth and Lord Westbury in Shaw v. Oould {3 E. and 
I. Ap, 72 and 81), To the same effect, but in language more pointed, 
is the text of Rodenburg {De Stat, Divers, tit, 1, c, 3, a, 4) cited in the 
same case by Lord Westbury : — " Unicum hoc ipsa rei nutura ac 
" necessitous inveocit, ut cum wi statu et conditione hominum quceritur, 
'* uni solum modo Judici, et quidem Domicilii, universum in ilia jus 
" sit atiribtUum,*' The same rule is laid down by Par, lE|y?tiztei%y4jOOQle 



( 174 ) 

^^^- Continental writer on the theory and practice of International 
Pbiyy private law. He says {Sec. 173, OiUespie's translation, p. 382) 
Council. «« ^^iq,^ in actions of divorce — ^unless there is some express 
** enactment to the contrary — ^the Judge of the domicile or 
" nationality is the only competent Judge." And he adds : — 
" A decree of divorce, therefore, pronounced by any other Judge 
" than a Judge of the domicile or nationality, is to be regarded in all 
" other countries as inoperative." 

There can, in their Lordshjps' opinion, be no satisfactory canon 
of International law regulating jurisdiction in divorce cases which 
is not capable of being enunciated with sufficient precision to ensure 
practical uniformity in its application. But any judicial definition 
of matrimonial domicile which has hitherto been attempted has 
been singularly wanting in precision, and not in the least calculated 
to produce a uniform result. The definitions given in Bradie v. 
Brodie and in Pitt v, Pitt appear to their Lordships to be equally 
open to that objection. Bona fide residence is an intelligible 
expression, if, as their Lordships conceive, it means residence which 
has not been resorted to for the mere purpose of getting a divorce 
which was not obtainable in the country of domicile. Residence 
which i^ " not that of a traveller " is not very definite ; but nothing 
can be more vague than the description of residence which, not 
being that of a traveller, is not to be regarded as " casual." So also 
the place where it is the duty of the wife to rejoin her husband, if they 
happen to be living in different countries, is very indefinite. It may 
be her conjugal duty to retmn to his society although he is living 
as a traveller, or casually, in a country where he has no domicile. 
Neither the English nor the Scotch definitions, which Bxe to be 
found in the decisions already referred to, give the least indication 
of the degree of permanence, if any, which is required in order to 
constitute matrimonial domicile, or afford any test by which that 
degree of permanence is to be ascertained. The introduction of 
so loose a rule into the jvs gentium would, in all probability, lead 
to an inconvenient variety of practice, and would occasion the very 
conflict which it is the object of International jurisprudence- to 
prevent. 

Their Lordships attach great weight to the consideration that the 
theory of matrimonial domicile for which the appellant contends 
has never been accepted in the Court of last resort for England 
and Scotland. The matter does not rest there, because the theory 
is not only in direct opposition td>the clear opinion expressed 
by Lord Westbury in Pitt v. Pitt, but appears to their 
Lordships to be at variance with the principles /recosnized by 

Digitized by V3i ° 



( 175 ) 

Xioble and learned Lords in Dolphin v. Robins {7 H, L, Ca. 1895. 

390) and in Shaw v, GonM {3 E. ds I, Ap. 55), It ifl ^^ 

true that in these oases, and especially in Dolphin v. Robins, Cottnoil. 

there was ground for holding that the spouses had resorted 

to a foreign country and a foreign tribunal, in order to 

escape from the law and the Courts of their English domicile. 

But in both, the international principle, upon which jurisdiction 

to dissolve a marriage depends, was considered and discussed ; and 

the arguments addressed to their Lordships in favour of matrimonial 

domicile appear to them to run counter to the whole tenor of the 

observations which were made by noble and learned Lords in these 

oases. In Dolphin, v. Robins, Lord Cranworth stated that " it must 

" be taken now as clearly established that the Scotch Court has no 

" power to dissolve an English marriage, where, as in this case, the 

" parties are not really domiciled in Scotland, but have only gone 

" there for such a time as, according to the doctrine of the Scotch 

** Courts, gives them jurisdiction in the matter." In 8h4iw v. Oovld, 

the dida of noble and learned Lords upon the point raised in this 

appeal were even more emphatic. Lords Cranworth and Westbury 

expressed their entire approval of the doctrine laid down by Huber 

and Rodenburgh in those passages which have already been cited. 

Their Lordships did not go the length of saying that the Courts of no 

other country could divorce spouses who were domiciled in England ; 

but they held that the Courts of England were not bound, by any 

principle of International law, to recognize as effectual the decree 

of a foreign Coiu*t divorcing spouses who, at its date, had their 

domicile in England. The other noble and learned Lords who 

took part in the decision of Shaw v. Qovld were Lords Chelmsford 

and Colonsay. Lord Chelmsford did not express any opinion 

upon the subject of matrimonial domicile. Lord Colonsay rested 

his judgment upon the fcict that the spouses had resorted to Scotland 

for the very purpose of committing a fraud upon the law of their 

Eingliflh domicile ; but he indicated an opinion that, in the absence 

of such f audulent purpose, they might have obtained a valid divorce 

in Scotland, after a residence in that country which was insufficient 

to change their domicile of succession. 

Their Lordships have in these circumstances, and upon these 
considerations, come to the conclusion that, according to Inter- 
national law, the domicile for the time being of the married pair 
affords the only true test of jurisdiction to dissolve their marriage. 
They concur, without reservation, in the views expressed by Lord 
Penzance in Wilson v. Wilson {1 P. and D. 442), which were 
obviously meant to refer, not to questions arising in regard 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 176 ) 

1895. ^ ^^^ mutual rights of married persons, but to jurisdiction 
in the matter of divorce : — " It is the strong inclination of 

PWVY 

CoimcxL. " °^y ^^^^ opinion that the only fair and satisfactory rule to 
'' adopt on this matter of jurisdiction is to insist upon 
*' the parties in all cases referring their matrimonial di£fe- 
" rences to the Courts of the country in which they are 
"domiciled. Different communities have different views and 
'' laws respecting matrimonial obligations, and a different estimate 
" of the causes which should justify divorce. It is both just and 
'* reasonable, therefore, that differences of married people should 
'' be adjusted in accordance with the laws of the community to 
'' to which they belong, and dealt with by the tribunals which alone 
"' can administer those laws. An honest adherence to this principle, 
*' moreover, will preclude the scandal which arises when a man 
** and a woman are held to be man and wife in one country, and 
** strangers in another." 

Their Lordships will, therefore, humbly advise Her Majesty to 
affirm the order appealed from. The appellant must pay to the 
first and fourth respondents their costs of this appeal. 

Affirmed. 



18»6- WIJERATNE V. PERERA. 

August 16,20 

P. C, Kurunegala, 3M43. 

Ordinance No. 17 of 1889, ss, 5 and 18 — Keeping a common ganying- 
place — Improper use of ba^aielle table — Game of 1' Kurunegala 
rouge at blanc." 

The game of bagatelle sanctioned by the Ordinance No 17 of 
1889, section 18, is not the game of " Kiirunegala rouge et 6kif»c," 

The occupiers of a house keeping a house for the playing of that 
game for stakes, and to which the public have access, are liable 
under section 5 of that Ordinance. 

THE evidence adduced in this case established that the two 
accused persons were the occupiers of a house in a thickly 
populated i)art of the town of Kurunegala ; that there was a 
bagatelle table in that house ; that the house was the nightly 
resort of all sorts and conditions of persons ; that the table was 
used for the purposes of playing a peculiar game in the following 
manner ; a red ball being placed upon the table at the spot point, 
a man who held the cue played the white ball against it, and the 
spectators round the table staked money, some upon the white 
ball, others upon the red ; that the stakes were placed upon the 
table ; and that the accuseds took a share thereof as their 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 177 ) 

commission, leaving the remaining money to be divided among the 1B95. 
winners according as the white or the red ball fell into any one of August J 6, 
the holes in the table. L 

The Police Magistrate convicted the accused of keeping a 
common gaming-place, and thereby committing an offence under 
section 5 of the Ordinance No. 17 of 1889, and sentenced them to 
pay a fine of Bs. 250 each. 

They appealed. 

Domhoret and Roberta, for appellant. 

Rdmandthan, S.-O,, for respondent. 

Cur. adv. tmU. 



20th August, 1895. Bbowne, J.— 

It is very patent that the accused have sought — under the 
protection given by the Gaming Ordinance, 1889, section 18, to 
the game of bagatelle — ^to keep or use for their own profit a 
common gaming-place, whereat on a bagatelle table a game (which 
after this prosecution will perhaps be known as '' Kurun^gala 
rotige et blanc ") was, according to the evidence, played in th6 
following manner : — 

The red ball being spotted, Horatella, a carter, who alone and 
always throughout the fifteen minutes when the witnesses were 
present handled the cue, played the white ball against it. The 
spectators standing on either side of the table had made bets, 
placing their money on either side of the table, whether the red 
ball or the white ball woidd fall into a hole. If both balls fell in, 
they were taken out and the stroke was repeated. When only 
one ball had on the first or after the repeated stroke fallen into a 
hole, those who staked their money on that coloured ball falling 
into the hole took their money. The bets were of various sums 
up to 50 cents. The two accuseds, father and son, stood on either 
side of the table, and before each game was commenced took as 
commission 3 cents out of each 25 cents staked, i.e., 6 cents out of 
each 25 cents bet. Five or six such games were played in the 
fifteen minutes. 

Appellants called no witnesses out of the thirty or forty Siijha- 
lese, Tamil, Moor, and Malay frequenters of their salon on this 
occasion to depose to the game being other than what the 
witnesses for the prosecution described. In their petition of 
appeal they submit that the stroke of white on red so described 
is but the first stroke at bagatelle, and that this limitation of the 
game to a series of repetitions of first stroke is only such a 
variation of the ordinary game as pyramids and snookers may be 

Vol. I. 12(54)29 y GoOgle 



( 178 ) 

1896. considered to be of the game of " billiards," which the Oidinanoe 
^^*^o ^^' 1®*^®^ legitimate. It is inadvisable now to hazard any opinion 
— '- whether those variations would be so protected. Probably those 
who are in doubt on the point will not play them for cash betting 
or stakes. But the judgment of the Police Magistrate, that this 
Kurim^gala rouge et blanc is not the game of bagatelle. sanctioned 
by the Ordinance, is one which I affirm. For this, which I 
believe to be the first conviction of the kind, I reduce the 
sentence to Rs. 100 fine, and in default three months' rigorous 
imprisonment. 



1895. WICKRAMASOORIYA v. APPUSINHO. 

'^*^'_f:^' p. C, Balapittya, 14,269. 

Appeal — CompiUcUion of time — Criminal Procedure Code, a. 406. 

In calculating a period within which an act is required to be 
done, the day from or after which such period is to be commenced 
is excluded, and the last day of such period included. 

ON the 23rd August, 1895, the accused was convicted. He 
tendered his petition of appeal on the 2nd September, but the 
Police Magistrate refused to accept aad forward it to the Supreme 
Court on the ground that it was tendered a day too late. 

Pereira, for the accused, moved the Supreme Court for an 
order on the Police Magistrate to transmit the record of the case in 
appeal to the Supreme Court, in terms of section 409 of the 
Criminal Procedure Code. He cited Chitty'a Arch, Prac, Q. B. 
D,, vol. II., p. 1435, and Young v, Higgon, 6 M, <k W, 49. 



Cur, adv. vuU. 



6th September, 1895. Browne, A.P.J. — 



When time from, after, or within a certain time of a particular 
period is allowed to do an act, the first day is excluded {Chitty'a 
Arch, Pr<ic,, vol, II,, p. 1435, 14th ed.). Hence, against a conviction 
of 23rd August the appeal tendered on 2nd September was in 
time. 

The motion is allowed. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 179 ) 



MARSHALL v. GUNARATNE UNNANSE et cU. i896. 

July 22 and 
Municipal Court, Colombo, 2,062. August 9. 

Ordinance No, 16 of 1865, a, 90 — Beating of drums at night without a 
license — Public nuisance by religious body. 

A religious body is not entitled to coimnit a public nuisance by 
the beating of drums and tolling of bells, and no license under 
section 90 of Ordinance No. 16 of 1865 will be a protection against 
proceedings under the Penal Code, though it may be a protection 
against proceedings under the Ordinance. 

HoUand v. Kapugama Terunndnse (P. C. Mdtara, No, 80,576, 
1 S, C. C, 90) and Jansz v. Endorts (P. C. OaUe, No, 1,582, 9S.C 
C. 204) commented upK>n. 

nnHIS was a prosecution under section 90 of Ordinance No. 16 
-^ of 1865 against the chief monk and the principal trustee 
of the Buddhist Vih4r6 at Hunupitiya, who were charged with 
beating drums, or tom-toms, and otherwise creating a noise in the 
night, whereby the repose of the inhabitants in the neighbourhood 
was disturbed, without a license. 

The Police Magistrate acquitted the second accused (trustee) 
and found the first accused gmlty *' of having tom-toms beaten 
" without a license," and sentenced him to pay a fine of Re. 10, or 
in default to undergo simple imprisonment for one week. 

He appealed. 

Pereira appeared for him at the argument in appeal, on July 
22, 1895. 

Cur. adv. vuM, 

9th August, 1895. Bonsbr, C.J.— 

The appellant was charged under the 90th section of the Police 
Ordinance, 1865, ** that he did on the 6th and 12th days of June, 
*' 1895, in the pansala at Hunupitiya, beat tom-tom between 6 
" and 12 p.m. without a license from the Police Magistrate or the 
** Superintendent of Police of the district." 

This section is dra^n in such a way as to be almost unintelli- 
gible, and has consequently given rise to some diversity of 
judicial opinion (see 1 8, C. C, 90 ojad 9 S, C, C. 204). In the 
former case Pheab, C.J., held that the words " except under 
'' military regulation, or imless they shall have obtained a license 
** from the Police Magistrate or from the Superintendent of Police, 
" who are hereby authorized to grant the same, -when it shall to^ - I 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 180 ) 

1895, " them appear expedient," referred only to the clause, " or who 

July 22 and "shall at any time discharge firearms, crackers, or fireworks." 

^*^^^*^ ^' But the Full Court in the latter case held that the words referred 

also to the previous clause, " who shall beat drums or 

" tom-toms, or have, or use any other music calculated to frighten 
" horses, or who shall make any noise in the night so as to 
** disturb the repose of the inhabitants." 

This construction leads to the curious result that a Pohoe 
Magistrate is authorized to license persons to make a noise in the 
night so as to disturb the repose of the inhabitants, but I am 
bound by it. 

It was proved that the appellant is the clergyman in residence 
at the clergy-house or pansala of a Buddhist temple ; that during 
the month of Jime there were some special services held at the 
temple, which lasted for above a fortnight, and that to stimulate 
devotion a great noise was made by beating of tom-toms and 
tolling of bells, which went on almost without intermission day 
and night, to the great annoyance of the neighbourhood. 

There was no evidence that the appellant had anything to do 
with the management of the special services, or was present at 
them. 

The Police Magistrate convicted the appellant of " having 
" tom-tom beaten without a license." 

It will be seen that the appellant was charged with one oflfence 
and convicted of another, but if the evidence would support the 
conviction and the appellant was not prejudiced by the irregu- 
larity, it could be set right by amendment. 

Pheab, C.J., in the case above referred to, doubted whether 
any but the actual beater of the tom-tom could be convicted 
xmder this section. But whether this be so or not, there is no 
evidence in this case to support the conviction. 

At the same time, the idea must not be entertained that a 
noise, which is an annoyance to the neighbourhood, is protected 
if it is made in the course of a religious ceremony. 

No religious body, whether Buddhist, or Protestant, or 
Catholic, is entitled to commit a public nuisance, and no license 
under section 90 of " The Police Ordinance, 1865," will be a 
protection against proceedings under the Penal Code, though it 
may protect them from proceedings under the Police Ordinance. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 181 ) 



In the Matter of the Application of JOHN FERGUSON for a 1874. 
Writ of Prohibition ags^inst the District Jodge of Colombo. ^^^^^ ^^ 

District Courts — Power of, to punish for contempt not committed ex facie — 
Appearance of accused — Plea to jurisdiction after application for 
time to adduce evidence — Ordinance No. 11 of 1868, s, 78 — Pouter 
of Supreme Court to issue writ of prohibition — Contempts cogniz- 
able by Superior and Inferior Courts of Record. 

When a pcurty appears before a District Court on a rule nisi issued 
on him to show cause why he should not be attcushed for contempt, 
and asks for time to cidduce evidence, he is not precluded from 
subsequently pleading to the jurisdiction of the Court. 

A writ of prohibition is a remedy ex debito justitiv, and lies 
before or after sentence, and it is not necessary that a party 
applying for it should, as in applications for injunctions, show 
that he would be otherwise without remedy. 

If a party have two remedies given him by law, the existence 
of one will not prevent his taking axlvantage of the other, par- 
ticularly if the latter remedy is likely to be more prompt and certain 
than the former. And so, a writ of prohibition on a District Judge 
may issue in cases in which an appeal lies upon his orders. 

A District Court is a Court of Record, and has power to punish 
summarily contempts committed in the face of the Court, such as 
insult to the Judge, interruption of the proceedings of the Court, dis- 
obedience to its lawful orders or process, obstruction to its officers 
in the execution of its process or orders, &c. 

District Courts cannot be viewed as representing in this Colony 
the Superior Courts of Law and Equity in England, and they have 
not the powers vested in these Courts as to summary attachment 
for contempts in respect of acts done out of Court. 

The Supreme Court of Ceylon has all the powers for punishing 
for contempt, wherever committed in this Island, possessed by the 
Superior Courts of Westminster. 

Semble, there is no distinct recognition in Roman -Dutch law 
authorities of the right of a Judge to deal summarily with contempts 
not committed in the fetce of the Court, nor committed by way of 
obstruction to its orders, or with reference to any suit or proceeding 
pending in the Court. 

nPHE facts of this matter arc fully stated in the judgment 
of the Supreme Court. 

Ferdinands, with Alwis, appeared for the applicant. 
Samud Orenier, for Mr. Thomas Berwick, the District Judge of 
Colombo. 

Cur. adv. vuU. 
3rd November, 1874. 

The following judgment of the Collective Court, consiBting of 
Morgan, A.C.J., Stewart and Cayley, J.J., was delivered by 
Morgan, A.CJ. : — 

This is an application for a writ of prohibition to restrain the 
District Judge of Colombo from further proceeding in the matter 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Nov. 3, 



( 182 ) 

1874. of a certain rule nisi issued by him against one of the Ediths 
^^r^^»'^ of the Observer newspaper, calling upon him to show cause 
why he should not iSe attached for the publication of an allied 
false and defamatory libel on the administration of justice and 
the conduct of judicial business in the District Court of Colombo, 
contained in the form of a letter entitled '' The Same," and signed 
"A B C,'* in the issue of the newspaper of Friday, the 25th 
September. 

This Court, having heard counsel in support of the application 
on the 6th ultimo, considered that cause had been shown for a 
rule nisi being granted, and ordered the same to issue with a 
stay of proceedings in the District Court until the application 
for the writ of prohibition could be disposed of in this Court. 
The rule came on for hearing on the 16th ultimo, when both 
parties were ably represented, and this Court derived valuable 
assistance from the arguments advanced and the authorities 
quoted by the counsel respectively. 

Certain preliminary objections were taken to the prohibition 
applied for, on the grounds (1) that the applicant having 
appeared before the District Court, and having failed to take at 
the outset a plea to the jurisdiction, but having, on the contrary, 
asked for time to adduce evidence, was debarred from afterwards 
taking such objection ; (2) that prohibition only lies after sentence ; 
(3) that the applicant has failed to show, as it was necessary for him 
to do, that the refusal of the writ would leave him without remedy ; 
and (4) that prohibition was not the proper remedy, inasmuch as 
a full right of appeal is given to parties aggrieved by the order of 
a District Court. 

The parties are not agreed as to whether the applicant applied 
for time to call evidence only, or to show cause generally, adducing 
evidence if necessary. But this is not material, for in appeals 
from the decision of Police Courts, where, as in applications like 
the present, there are no written pleadings, this Court commonly 
allows objections to the jurisdiction to be made, although not taken 
in the first instance. It may be observed, moreover, that the 
course adopted by the District Cowrt in the present case was a 
novel one, and the proceedings being of a summary nature, the 
applicant might reasonably be unprepared, in the first instance, 
to take all the objections to which they were fairly open. 

The case is not one of a criminal information or of a civil suit 
in a District Court, where the defendant, who is required to entar 
into a formal plea, is bound to plead to the jurisdiction, if he 
intends to rely on that defence ; and consequently it is not such a 
case as is provided for by the 78tb section of Ordinance No. .11 ol 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



( 183 ) 

1868. It is also to be observed that the present objection is not 1^74. 
one of jurisdiction simply. It relates not merely to the com- ^^J^ V^ 

potency of the District Judge to take judicial cognizance of a 

certain act, but to the mode of procedure to be adopted. Indeed, 
it goes to the whole root of the case. 

With regard to the second and third objections, we may observe 
fchat a writ of prohibition is a remedy ex debito justitiss, and lies 
before or after sentence (7 Com. Digest, Prohibition, D), and that it 
18 not necessary that a party applying for this writ should, as in 
applications for injunctions, show that he would be otherwise 
without remedy. As to the fourth objection, it may be answered 
that the relief of appeal may not prove adequate, for it is left 
discretionary with a Court to stay the execution of a sentence 
pending appeal. 

If a party have two remedies* given him by law, the existence of 
the one will not prevent his taking advantage of the other, par- 
ticularly if the latter remedy is likely to be more prompt and 
certain than the former. If, indeed, a prohibition will not 
issue in any case in which an appeal could lie, it is difficult to see 
to what GSrSes arising in the District Courts it could ever be made 
applicable ; for the appellate jmisdiction of the Supreme Court 
extends to the correction of all errors of fact or law committed 
by the District Courts ; there is an appeal against any order, 
whether final or interlocutory ; and yet the power of issuing 
writs of prohibition is given to the Supreme Court by the Charter 
and the Ordinance No. 11 of 1868, without any qiialification. 

The preliminary objections being thus disposed of, the nght of 
the applicant to the writ applied for remains next to be con- 
sidered. That right is based on the alleged want of jurisdiction 
in a District CoiuHb to punish contempts not committed in the 
face of the Court, or by way of obstruction to its lawful orders or 
process. 

Thi« is set out in the affidavit on which the application for 
prohibition is based, and, on reference to the newspaper contain- 
ing the letter constituting the alleged contempt, which is filed of 
record, it appears to contain comments on the conduct of judicial 
business in the Court, having no reference, however, to any 
pending cause. 

A Court empowered like our District Courts to fine and imprison 
and to keep a record of its proceedings is a Court of Record 
(Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown, cap, 1, section 14), and Courts of 
Record have undoubtedly the power to punish summarily 
contempts committed in the face of the Court. Such power is 
inherent in such Courts, and rests on the necessity of i)reserving ^ I 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 184 ) 

1874. for them that decent respect, without which they cannot cairy 

Oct. 16 and on their proceedings or maintain their just authority. 
Not?. 3. 

It would be difficult to give a specific enumeration of such acts 

of contempt, but they may be referred to generally as including 

any insult to the Judge while in the discharge of his duties, such 

as interruption of the proceedings of the Court, disobedience 

to its lawful orders or process, obstruction to its officers in the 

execution of its process or orders, and other acts of a like nature. 

The question for consideration, however, in this case is more 
limited in its character. 

It is contended by the learned counsel for the applicant that, 
though Courts of Record have power to punish contempts com- 
mitted in the face of the Court or by way of obstruction to its 
lawful order or process, yet that contempts such as the act in 
question can fall within the cognizance of Superior Courts only ; 
and this point was fully argued on both sides. The immediate 
questions for consideration, therefore, are (I) the existence of 
such distinction ; and if this be established, (2) whether our 
District Courts are to be considered Superior or Inferior Courts. 

As to the existence of such distinction, all the reported 
English cases, in which the power of summarily punishing 
contempts committed not in the face of the Court or by way of 
obstruction to its orders has been upheld are cases from the 
Superior Courts and the Court of Assize and nisi prius, of which 
latter the Lord Chief Baron, in delivering the judgment in ex 
parte Fernandez, observed that it was a Superior Court. " The 
** Court," said Mr. J. WiUes, " held for that purpose " (Judge sitting 
at 7ii8i prius for the trial of Crown causes) ** is the Superior 
" Qovixt itself, sitting by one of its members, with a jurisdictioii 
** limited for a time to certain special matters, but with all the 
** powers of the Supreme Court as to such matters." (1 Jur., pi. 7, 
p. 529 ; 30 L. J. Exch. 86). 

The particular question as to the right of Inferior Courts 
to punish contempts committed out of Court arose in the case 
of ex parte Jolliffe, which came before the Queen's Bench last 
year. At the hearing of a case, a County Court Judge made 
observations reflecting upon the conduct of an attorney. While 
the case was pending, the attorney published letters in a newspaper, 
accusing the Judge of tyranny and injustice. The Judge cited 
the attorney to appear before him for contempt of court. A rule 
for prohibiting to restrain the Judge from taking proceedings 
having been applied for, a discussion arose as to the power of 
Inferior Courts of Record to commit persons for contempt in 
respect of acts done out of Court {Law Km€«,^ November 23. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 186 ) 

1873). Mr. Justice Blackburn asked the counsel pointedly if he l®*^*- 
was aware of any authority as to the power of an Inferior Court ^^ ^^ ^ 
of Record to take cognizance of such contempts. Sir J. Karslake — 1- ' 
could not cite any express decision precisely in point, but 
referred to two cases, one from the Isle of Man (re Crawford, 
3 Jur, 955) and the other from British Guiana {MacDermott, 
5 Moore P. C. 469), adding that they were both cases from the 
Supreme Court of those places. 

The Supreme Court of the Isle of Man, as the Court of Chancery, 
is in no way subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery 
in England, and the powers given to the Court of British Guiana 
are very much the same as those possessed by the Supreme Court of 
this Colony. The rule in ex parte JollifFe came on for argument on 
February 8, 1873 ; and on the general question {42 L. J., Q, B. 121) 
Lord Chief Justice Cockburn expressed himself as follows : — 

It is very true that it is laid down by high authorities, and it is 
according to the reason of the thing, that every Court of Record has " 
power to fine and imprison for contempt committed in the face of the 
Court, while the Court is sitting in the administration of justice. Such 
a power is obviovisly necessary for the administTation of public justice, 
which may be interrupted or obstructed unless there is a power to 
summarily repress such outrages. But it is a very different thing to 
say that a Court shall have power to fine and imprison for contempts not 
committed in the face of the Court, and not amovmting to an actual 
obstruction of the course of justice, but only to the use of contunielious 
language, or the publication of articles or comments reflecting on the 
conduct of the Judge. It is laid down in Hawkins (Pleas of the Crown) 
and other writers of authority that the power of committing 
for contempts committed in the face of the Court is given to Inferior 
Courts, but it is nowhere said that they have power so to punish con- 
tempts committed out of Court. There is an obvious distinction 
between Inferior Courts created by statute, and Superior Courts of Law 
and Equity. In these Superior Courts the power of committing for 
contempt is inherent in their constitution, has been coeval with their 
cn-iginal institution, and has been always exercised. The origin ceui be 
traced to the tinie when all the Courts were divisions of the Great Curia 
Regis — the Supreme Court of the Sovereign — in which he personally, or 
by his immediate representative, sat to administer justice. The power 
of the Courts in this respect was therefore an emanation from the royal 
authority, which, when exercised personally or in the presence of the 
Sovereign, made a contempt of the Crown pimishable summarily, and 
this power pe^sed to the Superior Courts when they were created. 

It is a very different thing when we come to the Inierior Courts, which 
have never exercised this power, or have never been recognized as 
possessing it, and I should be prepared to hold that it does not exist. 

Can our District Courts, then, be regarded as Superior Courts 
in the sense in which the word was used in the decision last 
referred to ? Superior and inferior are relative terms, and our 
District Courts undoubtedly have powers much larger than those 
appertaining to English County Courts. It does not follow, 
however, that they are therefore Superior Courts in the sense in 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 186 ) 

1874. which the Superior Courts at Westminister and the High Court of 
^% ^^ T^ Chancery are Superior Courts. 

A case came on in appeal before this Court in 1861 from the 
District Court of Kandy, in which that Court claimed the right to 
issue writs of habeas corpus. The constitution of District Courts 
and their jurisdiction were considered in that case, and we cannot do 
better than quote from the judgment of the Collective Court 
delivered by Sir Edward Creasy on the point (Z). C, Kandy, 6^626, 
in re Shaw, Rdmanaihan's Eep,, lS60-S2y p, 116) :— 

When we consider the general nature and character of the District 
Courts in this Island, we find that (sbs their name imports) they have 
jurisdiction not over the whole Island, but eckch over a limited area. 
Within these limits each District Court has jm^isdiction over all civil 
pleas, suits, and actions, over idiots and limatics, over administrations 
cmd revenue causes, and over matrimonial causes. 

There is a criminal jurisdiction also, but that jurisdiction does not 
extend to offences of a grave charewter, which the provisos in the Charter 
and in the subsequent Ordinances in that respect define. An appeal 
from any proceedings of the District Court lies to the Supreme Court, 
which also may issue writs of mandamiLSj procedendo, and prohibition to 
the District Courts. The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is general 
over the Island, and it has expressly given to it an original jurisdiction 
in respect of all crimes and offences wheresoever in the Island they are 
alleged to have been committed. The Charter gives it expressly the 
power to issue writs of habeas corpus ; £uid a subsequent Ordinance gives 
that power to any Judge of the Supreme Court, at all times emd in €ttiy 
part of the Island. 

After thus generally setting out the jurisdiction of the District 
Court, the learned Judge proceeded to consider whether those 
Courts had the right to issue writs of habeas corpus. " We are 
" quite clear,** he proceeded to say, " that the District Courts have 
" it not. Were we to decide as desired by the respondent, we 
" should decide that a Court of limited criminal authority can 
** issue process in the course of which it must deal with committals 
** for offences expressly set out of and above its jurisdiction ; and 
" that an Inferior Court might by such process try the validity of 
" committals by this, its Superior, Court. We should be giving this 
" right to a mere local Court that can only act and enforce its orders 
" within its own limited area. Above all, we should be forgetful of 
*' all sound constitutional principles if we were to uphold the present 
" proceeding. Once more let us remember (and Lord Mansfield's 
" judgment in Kitig v. Crowle, 2 Burrows, may remind us) what in 
" the eye of the law a proceeding by writ of habeas corpus is. The 
" Sovereign is supposed to be acting and inquiring why one of her 
** subjects is deprived of his liberty. Here then we have an order 
** of the District Court of Kandy before us by which the Sovereign 
** is supposed to be acting and using one of her highest prerogatives 
"in an Inferior and local Court, liable at anv^ time to be 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 187 ) 

** controlled by mandamnsy procedei%do, or prohibition from this, its l®*^*- 

** Superior, Court, and subject in all matters to the appellate ^^l^^ 

"jurisdiction of this, the Supreme Court of this part of Her 

" Majesty's dominions." 

Here we may refer to a passage in 3 BUzcksUme in support of the 
views above quoted as to a partial and limited local jurisdiction 
being incompatible with the attributes inseparable from a Superior 
Court : — " These are the several species of Common Law Courts, 
"which, though dispersed universally throughout the realm, are 
"nevertheless of partial jurisdiction, and confined to particular 
"districts, yet communicating with, and, as it were, members of 
'' the Superior Courts of a more extended and general nature, which 
'' are calculated for the administration of redress, not in any one 
"lordship, hundred, or county only, but throughout the whole 
" kingdom at large." 

Mr. Justice Byles, in his judgment in the case of ex parte 
Fernandez, in pointing out several of the reasons why Courts of 
Assize must be considered Superior Courts, refers, among other 
matters, to the fact that the appeal, not as to error in fact, but on 
matters of law, did not exist by the common law, to their un- 
limited powers as Courts for the trial of criminal offences ; to their 
power of deciding on the lives of the Queen's subjects without 
appeal ; and to the high qualifications of the persons who constitute 
the Commission of Assize. 

Now District Courts cannot be regarded as Superior Courts in 
this sense. It is true that they are Courts invested with very 
important functions, and with an unlimited original civil juris- 
diction within their own districts ; but their jurisdiction is 
territorially very limited in all cases, and in criminal matters is 
confined to the trial and punishment of the lighter classes of offences. 
Unlike the Supreme Court and the Superior Courts at West- 
minster, a District Court has no control or superintendence 
over any other tribunal whatsoever. An appeal lies to the 
Supreme Court for the correction of all errors of fact or law com- 
mitted by a District Court, and from all judgments and orders 
of such Court whether final or interlocutory. The Supreme Court, 
or any Judge thereof, has full power and authority to inspect and 
examine the records of District Courts ; and to transfer any cause 
or prosecution from one District Court to another whenever therf 
is reason to conclude that the ends of justice will gain by such 
transfer. These District Courts are numerous (there being at 
present nineteen), and it is competent for the Governor by mere 
Proclamation to increase or diminish their number. The Supreme 
Court can by mandarmis further enforce the due exercise by 

Digitized by 



Google 



Nov. 3. 



( 188 ) 

1874. District Judges of their judicial and ministerial powers ; can by 
Oct, 26 and certiorari compel the production of their records, to the end that 
a party may have more sure and speedy justice ; can by procedendo 
prevent those Courts delaying parties by not giving judgment 
when they ought ; and by prohibition can direct them to cease from 
prosecuting any cause or proceeding, if it appear that the cause 
originally was not, or, owing to some collateral matter arising 
therefrom, be not within their jurisdiction. 

The Court was referred, under this head of the arrangement, to 
certain local enactments, with the view of showing that the powers 
of District Courts in cases of contempt were co-extensive with 
those belonging to the Supreme Court. But they fail to show 
this. The power to punish for contempts generally is not expressly 
given to the Supreme Court by the Charter of 1801. 

The 82nd clause gave power to that Court to issue mandates in 
the nature of a writ of mandamus, certiorari, procedendo, or error ^ 
and ^' to correct or punish any contempt thereof, or wilful dis- 
" obedience thereunto, by fine or imprisonment." The power to 
punish for contempts generally — a power which, with the qualifica- 
tion already stated, is inherent in every Court — ^is not expressly 
given, nor is it, on the other hand, expressly taken away. The 
Regulation No. 2 of 1816, which purports to regulate the practice 
in criminal proceedings before Provincial and Sitting Magistrates' 
Courts, described in that enactment as ** Inferior Courts," 
expressly provides that nothing therein contained " shall be 
** construed to extend to or in any wise affect the proceedings or 
" authority of the Supreme Court." All cases of contempt were by 
it to be transmitted to the Advocate Fiscal, for that officer to 
decide whether such accusation was fitting to be tried before the 
Supreme Court or referred to an inferior jurisdiction ; ia the 
latter case, the matter was to be referred to the nearest Court to 
that in which such contempt was committed. This Regulation 
was amended by the Regulation No. 15 of 1820, which authorizes 
the Provincial Courts and the Sitting Magistrates' Courts of Colombo 
** to punish by fine or imprisonment, or both, to the extent 
*' of their general powers in that respect, all contempts committed 
** before them before their own view, and also upon due proof, all 
*' contempts of their process or of the officers acting in the execution 
" thereof." Contempts alleged to have been committed before any 
Sitting Magistrate other than the Magistrate of Colombo, or before 
any Justice of the Peace, were to be tried before the Provincial 
Court of the district, unless the same should have been committed 
for trial before the Supreme Court. This Regulation expressly 
provides that nothing therein should be " construed to extend to 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 189 ) 

" or in any wise affect the proceedings or authority of the Supreme 1374, 

" Court.** The Charter of 1833 contained no reference to the power Oct. 16 and 

of the Supreme or District Courts (the two Courts which that ^f^- 

instrument established) to dispose of cases of contempt ; but it 

drew the distinction between the two tribunals, and gave the larger 

powers to the one over the other referred to in a preceding part 

of this judgment. The Rules and Orders of Court framed under 

the authority of the Charter, and promulgated with that instrument, 

provided for District Judges punishing by fine or imprisonment, 

or by both if necessary, " all contempts committed before them- 

** selves, and also upon due proof all contempts of their process 

'* or of their officers acting in the execution thereof," and also 

directed that the form of proceeding prescribed by Regulation 

No. 15 of 1820 was to be adhered to. That rule was repealed by a 

subsequent rule of the 21st October, 1844, but the effect of such 

repeal was only to leave the powers of the District Court as respects 

contempts to be determined by reference to the general constitution 

of such Courts as established by the Charter. Certain cases were 

also quoted to show that District Courts have theretofore punished 

parties guilty of contempt. All those cases, however, refer to 

contempts committed in Court, or by way of obstruction to its 

lawful orders or process ; such, for instance, as disobedience of 

process {MarshaU, p. 62) ; refusing to give evidence (ibidy pp, 63 

and 129) ; attempting to bribe an officer of the Court to steal a 

record (Z>. C, Jaffna, 318, 1 Lorenz 15) ; acting in defiance of a- 

decree of the Court (Z>. C, Colombo, 12,029, Morgan, p, 14) ; attempt. 

ing to practise frauds on or through the Courts. 

Brodie's case, on the other hand {2 Lorenz, 85), drew the distinction 
between Superior and Inferior Courts, and pointed out that in the 
former alone is vested the power of punishing contempts committed 
not in the face of the Court or in obstruction of its orders or 
process. 

" A contempt thus promptly punishable " (by Courts of Record 
generally), said Chief Justice Rowe, " consists for the most part 
** in contumelious or contumacious behaviour by words or acts in the 
'* face or in the immediate precincts of the Court." " Further, upon 
** the same principle, in the Superior Courts of Record is vested the 
" power to fine and imprison, not only for contempts committed in 
" the face or in the precincts of the Court, but for contempt of or 
** disobedience to the process and judgments of such Courts wherever 
•* within the realm, and whenever committed, for defamatory or 
'* libellous matter touching the Court itself, or any of its Judges, 
•• when acting in their judicial capacity." " It is in the Judges of 
" the Supreme Court only, as in men whose education, experience, and 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 190 ) 

1874. '•' habitual self-control exercised daily in the face of the public, 
O^ 16 tmd " tjjg Bgj.^ a^u^ ^ijg Press, may be presumed to qualify them to be 

" safe depositories of such power, that this large discretion in com- 

'' mitting for contempt is vested. To Inferior Courts the common 
" law has conceded a more restricted jurisdiction." Two other 
nstances (ex parte Staples and ex parte PaUerson) may be cited to 
show instances of the Supreme Court having taken cognizance and 
dealt with contempts committed not in the face of the Court or in 
obstruction of its process. Having thus considered the general 
law bearing on the subject, the Charter and local en€u;tments on 
the constitution and jurisdiction of the Supreme and the District 
Courts, and the precedents to be gathered from our records, we have 
come to the conslusion that the District Courts, though discharging 
important functions, and exercising unlimited civil jurisdiction, 
each within its district, cannot be viewed as representing in 
tWs Colony the Supreme Courts of Law and Equity in England ; 
and that they have not the powers, vested in those Courts, as to 
summary attachment for contempts such as the one charged in 
this case. It is not material for the purposes of this case to consider 
whether or not the Supreme Court has those powers ; but as the 
question has been submitted and argued, we have no hesitation in 
declaring that we are quite prepared to hold and maintain that this 
Court, as the Supreme judicial tribunal in and throughout this 
Island, vested with all the high prerogative powers conferred on it 
by the Crown, ha»8 all the power of punishing for contempt, wherever 
<}ommitted in this Island, possessed by the Superior Courts of 
Westminster. 

It was further contended that, whatever the English law may be, 
the Roman-Dutch law gives District Judges the power claimed 
by the respondent in this case. We are not prepared to admit, 
without qualification, the authority of that law in matters purely 
of procedure, and in Courts constituted and regulated, like ours, 
under very different circumstances from the Courts of the United 
Provinces. The proceeding adopted in this instance was entirely 
under the English law, and in accordance with its forms, and our 
decision is based on the English decisions, which have always 
been recognized and acted upon in our Courts in matters of eon- 
tempt. We fail to find, however, in the authorities quoted, 
a-nd in those we have referred to, any distinct recognition 
of the right of a Judge to deal summarily with contempts 
against his authority such as the one charged in this case, t.e., 
contempts committed not in the face of the Court nor by way of 
obstruction to its orders, nor with reference to any suit or 
proceeding pending in the Court. Voet, our leading Dutch Law 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



/ 



( 191 ) 

authority, lays down the rule, as it appears to us, in accordance ^®''*- 
rather with the general rule of the English law than with the position 2^^^ j^ 

advanced by the respondent's counsel. ** The injury," says Voet 

(/»6. 5, HL i, sect, 2), '' must be committed against a Judge not only 
qtui jvdici but also munita implenti.'^ Gaill (06«. 39} lays down the 
position that a Judge has in certain cases authority to punish 
sununarily injuries done to himself, notwithstanding the general rule 
that no one «3an act as Judge in his own cause ; but in such cases 
the injury must be done to the Judge tU jvdici, and must be notoria, 
and he adds it would be otherwise '* si injuria non esset evidens ei 
" Twtoria, sed aUiarem probatumem adhtx requireret : quo ccisu ad 
" superiorem recurrendum est, ut ipse tanquum judex competens de ea 
cagnoscai,^' An insult offered to a Judge in open Court would no 
doubt be (in the words of Gaill) tale notorium quod inficiari nonpossit, 
but the same cannot be said of the contempt charged in this case ; 
indeed, time was given to the applicant to adduce evidence, and the 
matter adjourned for further inquiry. It is clear from the nature of 
the case that it was one which required an altior probatio before the 
applicant should be pimished, and should, therefore, according to 
the rule laid down by G€uU, have been referred to a higher tribunal. 
Van Leeuwen, in his Censura Forensis {part II., book II., c. 14) 
strongly expresses his disapproval of the practice in some tribimals 
of a Judge taking cognizance of a matter in which he is interested, 
notwithstanding that the act complained of is evidens, et notorium » 
Such a practice, he says, ** n>equ£ legi neque rationi consentaneum 
** mU^i videtur, quicquid pro constitutionis aut indtdtoe consuetu- 
" dinis colore affingere nitarUur aiii.'' We werereferred to a passage 
of Christinaeus (vol. II., dec. 162), where he speaks of the power of 
a Judge to punish wrongs done to himself ; but he limits it to cases 
when the injuria is iUata judice pvblice et maxime dum sedet pro 
iribv/nali. And he goes to say, '' Ideoque ad tuendam judicum 
" dignitatem coercendamque temere riorum licentiam, supremus 
** senatas nunquam cegre tulit, juridicum, illatam sibi injuriam 
" pro tribunali sedentem ex temporali jvdicio vindicasse,** clearly 
referring to contempts either public and notorious, or committed 
in face of the Court. Damhouder (Praxis, Per. Crim., cap. XI.) is 
still more explicit with regard to the power of a Judge to punish 
summarily. After laying down the rule that Judges have power 
to punish summarily offences committed before them in open 
Court, he proceeds : " Verum enimvero si crimen perpetraium 
** fuerit praesente testeque judice extra tribunal seu locum sena- 
" torium, rum pro tribunali sedente, foris uspiam, procedendum 
*^ fverit jvdici per inquisitionem, aique processus legitimo ritu 

Digitized by 



Google 



{ 192 ) 



1874. ** instUtiendtis, Qtu)d scilioel ecrimen tali loco commissum, non 
aL 16 and ** fuerit ipai noknium sen cognUum tanquam judici, sed veltUi privaio, 
L.* '' Ita>que eo C€isu amnis ordo jtLdiciarivs est necesaarivs.'' 



We may here notice some of the reasons for the distinction 
between the powers of Superior and Inferior Coorts in deaUng 
with contempts, restricting the powers of the latter Courts to cases 
of actual contempt, i.e., cases of direct insult to or attack on the 
Court itself, disobedience of its orders, or obstruction of its process ; 
while to the former is given the right to take cognizance, not only 
of actual, but of constructiye, contempts, such as attacks on Judges, 
suitors, or witnesses, tending indirectly to interfere with the course 
of justice. 

The reason for such distinction, given by Chief Justice Rowe 
in the judgment in Brodie'a case, may be inapplicable to the Judges 
of the Provincial towns, whose age and experience will guard them 
against the danger to which large and uncontrolled powers may 
expose them. 

But we have to deal with systems, not men, and we cannot 
shut our eyes to the danger of confiding such a power as the one 
claimed in this case to yoimg men in remote stations ; a po^wer 
which, as Lord Abinger has observed in the case of Rex v. Faulk- 
ner (2 C. M, and R., p. 525), is a very important one, and requires 
the greatest nicety in its exercise. 

Indeed, a careful study of the English decisions will show that 
even the Judges of the Superior Courts have refrained from 
pursuing the course of summary attachment, and have preferred 
the procedure by criminal information, except in cases where the 
nature of the contempt called for instant action on the part of 
the Court ; e.g., if the proceedings of a Court are impeded by dis- 
turbance during its sitting, or by obstruction of its process, or 
disobedience of its orders. In the early case (1,742) of Roach v^ 
Garden (2 Atkyna, 469), whilst evidence was being taken in a pending 
case, a libel was published calculated to deter parties from giving 
evidence in favour of one of the parties by exciting prejudice against 
him. Lord Hardwicke interfered summarily by committing the 
guilty parties. In Rex v. Jdlife (4 Term Rep,, 285 and 1791), where 
the defendant awaiting his trial on a criminal information, distri- 
buted handbills in the assize town vindicating his own conduct and 
reflecting on the prosecutors, the case was postponed, and another 
information granted. 

In Rex V. Fleet (/ B, and Aid. 379, 1818), where a party 
published in a newspaper a statement of the evidence given before 
a coroner's jury, accompanied with comments, the proceeding 
taken was by information. So in the case of Sir Francis Burdett 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( 193 ) 

{4 B, and Aid. 95 and 314, 1820), In the case of the Observer news- ^*''*- 
paper {Rex v. Clement, 4 B, and Aid. 218, 1821 ) the summary proceed- 'no^3. 

ing was adopted because the case was one calling for immediate 

repression. The defendant published proceedings contrary to the 
express order of the Ck>urt in the course of a triallikely to continue for 
several successive days, there being other prisoners also charged with 
the same offence, whose trials were to be taken up one after the other. 
Summary proceeding was also pursued in Bex v. Davidson (4 B. and 
Aid. 329, 1821), but that was for contempt by a party in the 
course of addressing a jury, and for which he could not be indicted. 
Strong as was the case of Rex v. Clement, yet two of the Judges, 
Liittledale and Gaseley, J.J., refused to act upon it. In the case of 
Rex v. OUham (Moodey and Maikim, 166), a case of murder was to 
be tried during the assize. Whilst it was being held, an artist was 
exhibiting in the Town Hall of the Assize town models of the mur- 
dered woman, and of the supposed murderer, who was then to stand 
his trial. Application was made that he be committed for con- 
tempt, but Mr. Justice Littledale said : '' I think the exhibition 
'* highly indecorous and improper, and one that may subject the 
•* man to punishment ; but it does not appear to me or to my learned 
** brother to be a contempt ; therefore I cannot interfere in the 
" mode proposed to commit the person exhibiting." And this 
decision has been followed by several decisions in the Court of 
Queen's Bench. 



In Long Wellesley's case {2 Rttss. and Myl. 69, 1831), when the 
Court of Chancery punished a person for contempt for the clan- 
destine removal of a ward from the custody of the person under 
whom the guardians appointed by the Co\irt had placed the 
ward, and who, when examined by the Court, admitted the fact, 
but refused to state where the ward was, the necessity for prompt 
and efficacious action was fully established and acknowledged by 
the House of Commons, when Mr. Wellesley claimed the privilege 
of Parliament. In Lechmere Charlton's case (2 Mylne and Craig, 
326, 1837) the offender was punished for contempt for writing a 
threatening letter, and one provocative of a duel, to the master 
with reference to proceedings actually going on before the master, 
whom he had to meet daily. His offence was also repeated by the 
sending of another offensive letter to the Lord Chancellor. In 
Vansanden's case the contempt was the distribution of papers in 
and out of Court, but as in Rex. v. Qilham, the remedy pursued 
was by information. In the recent cases against Messrs. Whalley, 
Onslow, and Skipworth, the defamatory remarks were made 
against witnesses who were forthcoming to proxe the charge of 

Vol. I. 12(54)29 yGoOgk 



( 194 ) 

1874. perjury, which the Chief Justice had directed to be brought against 
Oct. 16 and the claimant, and against whom the grand jury had found a true 
^' * bill. It will thus be seen that even the Judges of the Superior Courts 
of Westminster have only followed the remedy of sunmiary 
information in cases where a necessity existed for prompt action. 
In other cases they have left the matter to be dealt with by ordinary 
course of procedure. 

We consider, for the reasons given, that it was not competent 
to the District Judge of Colombo to take' the proceedings he did 
in this case ; and the order of the Court is that the rule for pro- 
hibition allowed on the 6th ultimo should be, and the same is hereby 
made absolute ; and the said District Judge is hereby directed to 
refrain from further proceeding in the matter of the rule nisi issued 
by him against the Editor of the Observer newspaper, referred to in 
the first paragraph of this judgment. 



l»»s. DAWSON V. PERERA. 

Sept 25. 

Additimal P. C, Colombo, 3,866. 

Appeal where aamaed had pleaded guilty — Plea of guiUy — Criminal 
Procedure Code, as. 220, 229, and 403 — Judgment — Criminal 
Procedure Code, a. 372, 

Where an accused appeared to summons, and the Police Magis- 
trate explained to him the particulars of the offence, and then 
recorded as follows : — " He plecMis guilty. I accept the admission 
** of the accused. He is fined Rs, 5 " — 

Held, that this w€bs irregular, the proper course under section 220 
of the Criminal Procedure Code being to record the admission of an 
accused party, as nearly as possible, in the words used by him. 

In the event of a conviction in the Police Court, the requirements 
of section 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code, as to specifying the 
offence of which, and the section of the law under which, the accused 
is convicted, niust be conformed to. 

T^HE accused was charged with continuing a kraal in the Pana- 
-^ durt$ lake, known as Panadure Eliya, so as to impede the 
convenient navigation thereof, in breach of sub-section 12 of section 
94 of Ordinance No. 10 of 1861. He appeared to summons, and 
the Police Magistrate then made the following record : — " Parti- 
" culars of the offence explained to the accused. He pleads guilty. 
" I accept the admission of the accused. He is fined Rs. 6." 

The accused appealed. 

Pereira, for accused appellant. The proceedings are irregular. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( li>^ ) 

[BoNSEB, C.J. — ^The accused had no right to appeal as he had 1896. 
pleaded guilty.] A plea of guilty cannot now be recorded in the Bonsbr,C.J. 
Police Court. Section 403 of the Criminal Procedure Code, no 
doubt, provides that when an accused person has pleaded guilty, 
and been convicted by a District or Police Court on such plea, there 
shall be no appeal, but so far as Police Courts are concerned, the 
plea here referred to is the plea under section 229. That section 
has, however, been repealed, and has not been re-enacted by Ordi- 
nance No. 22 of 1890 ; so that a plea of guilty is not a plea now 
admissible in summary trials before Police Courts. In a case like 
this, the only section under which it is now open to a Police Magis- 
trate to take steps is section 220 (Ordinance No. 22 of 1890), but 
under that section when an accused person admits the commission 
of an offence, such admission must be recorded, as nearly as possible, 
in the words used by him, and then the Police Magistrate might 
convict him. There is no provision in the Code that against such a 
conviction there should be no appeal. In support, then, of the 
appeal, it is submitted that there is no record of what the accused 
said when questioned under section 229, nor of any formal conviction. 
The accused gives in his petition of appeal the exact statement he 
made. If that was the statement, it is clear that it did not amount 
to an admission of the offence, and he could not be convicted thereon. 



25th September, 1895. Bonsee, C.J. — 

[After setting forth the charge.] The matter came up before 
Mr. de Saram, the Itinerating Police Magistrate, but he did not, 
as he is required to do by law, examine the complainant, but issued 
summons forthwith. Defendant appeared, and all that is recorded 
is this,: — 

" Particulars of the offence explained to the accused. He pleads 
" guilty." Then the judgment : ** I accept the admission of the 
" accused. He is fined Rs. 5." 

The proceedings were irregular. Section 220, which has been 
substituted by Ordinance No. 22 of 1890 for the old section 229 of 
the Criminal Procedure Code, provides that the accused is to be 
asked if he has any cause to show why he should not be convicted, 
and that if he admits that he committed the offence of which he 
is accused, his admission shall be recorded, as nearly as possible, 
in the words used by him. The Magistrate did not record the 
admission as nearly as possible in the words used by the defend- 
ant, for he has merely recorded that " he pleads guilty." Now, the 
defendant in his petition of appeal says, that what really happened . ^ ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 196 ) 

1895. was this. He said : " I did make a kraal, but I was justified in 
BoKSBB C.J. ^^^ ^* ^y ^^^ custom." That is not a plea of guilty, and, if 
he did say that, the Magistrate ought to have duly recorded the 
statement. 

I notice a further irregularity : that the judgment does not 
conform to the requirements of section 372 of the Criminal 
Procedure Code. It does not specify the offence of which, or 
the section of the law under which, the accused was convicted, 
and, therefore, it seems to me, in view of Chese irregularities, that 
the case should go back to be re-heard. 



1895. In the Matter of the Insolvency of M. I.. MARIKAR 

S^P^^' ABDUL AZIS. 

D. C, OaOe, 258. 

Practice — Appeal — Insolvency proceedings — Security for appeal costs — 
Ordinance No. 7 of 1853, s. 6 — Evdes and Orders of 1833 — Civil 
Procedure Code, s. 756. 

The proyisions of the Civil Procedure Code, 1 889, relative to the 
giving of security for the respondent's costs of appeal, do not apply 
to appeeds from orders in insolvency cases. 

Re insolvency of PhUippo (D. C, Colombo, 1,697), 9 S. C. C. 120, 
over -ruled. 

'"P^HIS was an appeal by the insolvent against the refusal of the 
*^ District Judge to grant him a certificate of conformity under 
the Ordinance No. 7 of 1853. No seciuity for the respondent's 
costs of the appeal was given. 

The case came on for argument before Bonsbb, C.J., and 
Browne, A.J., on June 21, 1895, and De Saram appeared for the 
insolvent and Domhorst for the respondent. 

Domhorst took the preliminary objection that no security for 
costs in appeal was given as required by section 756 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, and relied on the case reported in 9 8. C. C. 120 
(In the matter of the insolvency of Philippo). 

De Saram contended that the case relied on was not in accor- 
dance with section 6 of the Ordinance No. 7 of 1853, and ought to 
be over-ruled. 

The case was set down for argimient before the Full Court 
(BoNSBB, C.J., WrPHERS, J., and Browne, A.J.) on the point as 
to the necessity for giving security for costs. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 197 ) 

De Saram {Jayewardme with him) on the pFeliminary objection 1895. 
contended that the provisions of section 756 of the Code dealt Bonser C.J- 
only with appeals from civil cases, and was never intended 
to touch insolvency proceedings, which had a special procedure of 
its own. No rule or order was ever made by the Supreme Court 
under section 4 of the Insolvency Ordinance, so that we must be 
guided by the regulations which existed at the time the Ordinance 
came into force. There were none ; but orders in insolvency 
proceedings were treated as interlocutory orders, and required no 
security to be given, Clarence, A.C.J. , in the case referred to, 
was wrong in dealing with the old Rules and Orders, 1833, for they 
did not touch insolvency appeals. If appeals from insolvency 
orders were dealt with under the Code, and required security, the 
difficulty would be to fix the class under which such security should 
be given. 

Domhorst, contra. The Civil Procedure Code dealt with 
appeals from any judgment, decree, or order of any original court, 
and it is submitted that orders in insolvency proceedings come 
within this section 754 of the Code. Original Court is defined in 
section 5 of the Code so as to include District Courts and Courts of 
Requests, and under section 756 security must be given for such 
appeals. 

De Saram, in reply. 



13th September, 1895. Bonser, C.J.— 

This is an appeal in an interlocutory matter, and the prelimi- 
nary objection is taken that the appellant has not given security 
for costs in appeal, and the question for our decision is — whether 
the objection is a good one or not. The practice before the intro- 
duction of the Civil Procedure Code appears to have been 
uniform, that no security was- required in appeals under the 
Insolvency Ordinance. The right of appeal was given by section 
6 of Ordinance 7 of 1853, and that section enacted that " every 
" such appeal shall be brought on and prosecuted in such 
" manner, and shall be subject to such regulations as now 
" exist, or shall hereafter be made by any rule or order of the 
" Supreme Co\irt." Now, it is admitted that no rule or order of 
the Supreme Court was made after the date of the Insolvency 
Ordinance, either dealing with insolvency matters or any other 
appeals. At the date of the enactment of Ordinance 7 of 1853 
there were in existence Rules and Orders which had been made 
in 1833 dealing with appeals generally from District Courts in 
respect of civil matters. The Rules and Orders therefore governed 
appeals in insolvency matters in the absence of any express rules /-w/-^qTp 

o 



c 



( 198 ) 

^ 1896. made by the Supreme Court. In 1889 the Civil Procedure Code 
BoNSKR,C.J. ^*® passed. The question arises whether that Code expressly or 

impliedly repealed the then existing procedure in respect- of appeals 

in insolvency matters. 

There are clauses in the Civil Procedure Code which seem, at 
first sight, to show such an intention. Section 764 provides that 
" every appeal to the Supreme Court from any judgment, 

" decree, or order of any Original Court, shall be made in 

" the manner herein provided." But if we look to the requirements 
of the Code as to the contents of a petition of appeal, we see that 
one of the requirements is that the petition shall state the names 
of the parties to the action. An insolvency proceeding is not 
generally described as an action. 

It is more properly described as a matter, and from that I draw 
the conclusion that the provision in the Code as to appeals 
was only intended to refer to appeals in actions properly so 
designated. I am confirmed in this view by consideration of the 
general scope and frame of the Civil Procedure Code. It deals 
with appeals in civil actions ; it makes no express provisions as 
to insolvency appeals, and, indeed, is altogether silent with respect 
to insolvency proceedings. 

I am of opinion that it was never intended that insolvency pro- 
ceedings should be touched by the Code, but that it was intended 
that the provisions of Ordinance 7 of 1853 should continue to 
regulate all proceedings under that Ordinance. 

There is, however, a decision of two Judges to the contrary (re 
insolvency of Philippo, reported in 9 S. C, C. p, 120), where it was 
held that the 58th chapter of the Civil Procedure Code deals with 
appeals generally, and that section 756 requiring security to be 
given applied to insolvency appeals. But the Court there does 
not appear to have dealt with section 6 of Ordinance No. 7 of 1853, 
which requires that all appeals under it should be prosecuted 
subject to the then existing regulations in default of any new 
regulations made by the Supreme Court thereafter. I confess that I 
cannot follow the reasoning of that judgment. Clarence, J., said 
there were no orders of the Supreme Court, but instead of inferring 
as a necessary consequence that, as there were no such orders, we 
must revert to the procedure under the r^ulations of 1833 and 
Ordinance 7 of 1853, he draws the conclusion that the Code must 
govern. I say that I cannot follow this reasoning, or agree with 
the decision. In my opinion the intention of the Code was to 
leave untouched the procedure as to appeals in insolvency cases. 
The objection to the reception of this appeal cannot be sustained, 
and the appeal must be heard. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 199 ) 

WiTHEBS, J.— 1896. 

I Bigree. Withbiis, J. 

I venture to dissent from the learned Judges whose judgment 
is under review, for the simple reason that, in my opinion, the 
Civil Procedure Code has nothing whatever to do with insolvency 
matters. 

The preamble of this Code recites that it is expedient to con- 
solidate and amend the laws relating to the procedure of civil 
courts in the Colony. In section 6 of this Code " civil court " is 
defined to be " a court in which civil actions may be brought." 
Under chapter II. of this Code an action may be either regular 
or summary, the Code itself providing for all cases in which actions 
may be taken by way of summary procedure. " Insolvency " is 
not mentioned in the Code. " Action " is not an apt term to 
describe insolvency proceedings, the procedure in regard to which 
is regulated by Ordinance No. 7 of 1853. 

The 6th section of that Ordinance enacts that " all decisions and 
" orders of the District Courts made under the authority of this 
** Ordinance shall be subject to an appeal to the Supreme Comij, 
** and every such appeal shall be brought on and prosecuted in 
'' such manner, and shall be subject to such regulations as now 
" exist, or shall be hereafter made by any rule or order of the 
" Supreme Court." 

No rules especially adapted to appeals from orders in insol- 
vency matters having been framed by the Supreme Court, we are 
carried back to the practice of appeals from judgments in civil 
courts obtaining at the date of that enactment. And here we are 
met with a difficulty. In the case of interlocutory orders only 
was no security required. In all other cases an appellant, if able, 
was obliged to furnish security for the subject of litigation as well 
as security for costs. If unable to furnish the former, he was 
allowed to furnish security for costs only, if he had a good cause of 
appeal. 

However, as a matter of continuous practice from the date of 
the Insolvency Ordinance to the date of the judgment under review, 
orders in insolvency proceedings have been treated as interlocutory 
orders in civil courts. 

They have always come up before a single Judge, without security 
for costs. That long-settled practice, whatever the reason for it, 
must be taken to be the law on the point, unless expressly or 
impliedly repealed. The Civil Procedure Code has not, I consider, 
repealed it. 

The reason for the practice may have been that in insolvency 
proceedings there is no subject of litigation as in a contested , j 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 200 ) 

1895. action, and as all the property of the insolvent has vested in the 

assignee, he cannot be expected to furnish security for costs. 

Browns, 

^•*^* Browne, A.P.J. — I concur. 

[On the merits the appeal was heard on the 17th September, 1895, 
and the case was sent back for further inquiry as to the financial 
position of the insolvent.] 



1895. TERUNNANSE v. MENIKE. 

^'!^^- D. C„ BaduUa, 746, 

Civil Procedure Code, 8, 247 — Action by execution-creditor — His incompe- 
tency to prove prescription — TiUe of execution-debtor — Ordinance 
No. 22 of 1871, 8, 3 — Meaning of ** possession " therein — Roman- 
Dutch Law as to prescription. 

It is not competent for an execution -creditor, who in an action 
under section 247 of the Civil Procedure Code was seeking to have it 
declared that certain immovable property, which had been released 
by order of Court from seizure xinder a writ of execution of a judg- 
ment held by him, was available for levy as his judgment-debtor's 
property, to lay a foundation of title in his debtor to the property 
sought to be so levied, by proving ten years' adverse and uninter- 
rupted possession by his debtor of the property, immediately 
previous to the seizure in execution, in accordance with the require- 
ments of the Ordinance No. 22 of 1871. 

The " possession " contemplated in section 3 of Ordinance No. 22 
of 1871 is that of a party to a suit, or of his predecessor in title, but 
not that of a third party. 

The effect of the Ordinances 22 of 1871 and 8 of 1834 is to sweep 
away all the Roman -Dutch Law relating to the acquisition of 
immovable property by prescription, except as regards the property 
of the Crown. 

^T^HE facts of the case are stated in the judgment of their 
-^ Lordships. 

Bawa and Van Langenberg, for appellant. 
Sampayo, for respondent. 

17th September, 1895. Bonser, C.J. — 

In this case the plaintiff brought an action under section 247 of 
the Civil Procedure Code claiming, (1) to have an order made bj' 
the District Court on a claim inquiry set aside ; (2) that one 
Johannis Fernando might be declared the owner of a certain field, 
and that such field might be liable to be seized and sold under a 
writ of execution issued by the plaintiff against the said Fernando : 
(3) that the defendants might be ejected from the, field and the 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( 201 ) 

plaintiff put into quiet possession thereof ; and (4) Rs. 50 damages. 1895 
For the third claim there was obviously no foundation. Bonskb C.J. 

It appears by the evidence that the plaintiff purchased *' one 
amunam" of this field on the 26th of June, 1871, when it was 
sold by the Grain Tax Commissioners for default by the then 
owner, the husband (now deceased) of the first defendant, in 
payment of the tax. 

No conveyance, however, was ever made to the plaintiff, nor a 
certificate of sale under Ordinance No. 6 of 1866 given to him, so 
that the plaintiff did not obtain a legal title to the land. 

It further appears that by a deed of the 16th July, 1890, the 
plaintiff conveyed the land to the said Johannis Fernando for a 
sum of Rs. 150, which was not paid, but for which the said Johannis 
Fernando the same day mortgaged the land to the plaintiff. The 
plaintiff alleges the Johannis Fernando went into possession, but 
never paid the purchase money or any part thereof. 

The defendants, who are the widow and daughter of the late 
owner of the land, seem to have been continuously asserting their 
right to this land ever since his death. 

It is a significant fact that they were admittedly in possession 
of and cultivating this land on one occasion after the purchase by 
the plaintiff for a whole year. The plaintiff explains this by 
saying that they went in as his tenants. Considering that these 
people had been all along asserting a right to this land, this explana- 
tion is in the highest degree improbable, and I am by no means 
satisfied that the plaintiff has ever had possession of this land for 
such a period or of such a character as satisfies the requirements 
of Ordinance No. 22 of 1871. 

But, assuming that the plaintiff has shown that he had possession 
of this land for ten years uninterruptedly before his sale to Fernando, 
I do not think that this can avail him in the present action. 

What he has to prove in this case is that the land is Fernando's, 
but apart from Ordinance No. 22 of 1871, Fernando had no title. 
Can the plaintiff set up prescription to prove Fernando's title ? 
In my opinion he cannot. 

It was held in the case of Punchirala v. Andria Apptthami {3 
S. C. R. 149) that it is not competent for a plaintiff or defendant 
to set up a third person's title under section 3 of Ordinance 22 
of 1871, but that the possession to be proved must be that of a 
party to the suit or of his predecessor in title, and that the judg- 
ment to be given under that section must be declaratory of the 
right of a party to the action, not of a stranger. I agree with 
that decision. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 202 ) 

1895. The Ordinance was passed, as I venture to think, to protect 

Withers J. ^^^^^^ possessors only, and was intended to be used as a shield 
only, and not as a weapon of ofiFence. 

If the person in possession were sued by the true owner, he could 
plead the Ordinance, or he might take the initiative if his possession 
was disturbed or threatened, and apply for a decree establishing his 
title and quieting him in possession. The Ordinance differs 
essentially from the EngUsh Statute of Limitations, which at 
the expiration of the statutory period transfers the ownership 
to the possessor, and extinguishes the title of the original owner. 

The plaintiff's action therefore fails, and should be dismissed 
with costs. 

Withers, J. — 

The only point discussed before us was whether an execution- 
creditor, who in an action under the 247th section of the Civil 
Procedure Code was seeking to have it declared that certain 
immovable property, which had been released by order of Court 
from seizure under a writ of execution of a judgment held by him, 
was available for levy, as his judgment-debtor's property could 
lay a foundation of title in his debtor to the property sought to 
be so levied, by proving ten years' adverse and uninterrupted 
possession by his debtor of the property immediately previous 
to the seizure in execution, in accordance with the requirements 
of Ordinance No. 22 of 1871. 

It has been laid down and constantly acted upon by this Court 
that the governing Ordinance No. 22 of 1871, and the previous 
Ordinance No. 8 of 1834, kept alive the repeal by regulation No. 13 
of 1822 of "all laws heretofore enacted or customs existing with 
" respect to the acquiring of rights and the barring of civil 
" actions by prescription," and that the consequence of that 
regulation and those Ordinances was to sweep away all the Roman- 
Dutch Law relating to the acquisition of title in immovable 
property (including positive and negative servitudes) by prescription, 
except as regards the property of the Crown. 

Hence the only law relating to the acquisition of private immov- 
able property by prescription is to be found in the 3rd section of 
the Ordinance No. 22 of 1871. 

That section determines the mode of acquisition of a prescriptive 
title. 

It has been held over and over again by this Court that a decree 
of title to such immovable property can be granted under the 
circumstances set forth in that section. ^. .^.^^^^ CjOOQIc 



( 203 ) 

The immovable property, however, it is clear, must be the 1896. 
subject of litigation between contesting parties, a plaintiff and a ^ "~^ 
defendant. A.J. 

If a plaintiff solicits the decree provided for by that section, he 
must prove that he has had adverse and uninterrupted possession 
of the immovable property for ten years previous to the bringing 
of the action ; and if a defendant solicits such a decree, he must 
prove that he has had a similar possession of the immovable 
property. 

The judgment-debtor not being either a party plaintiff or a 
party defendant to the present action, it is clear that the execution- 
creditor cannot put forward proof of the statutory possession in his 
judgment-debtor for the purpose of supporting his present claim. 

This very point was determined in the case of Punchirala v. 
Andris Appvhamy reported in 3 S. C, R. 149, and we were invited 
to re-consider that decision. 

In my opinion that was a good decision, and so far as this point 
is concerned I would give judgment against the plaintiff. 



Bbownb, A.J. — 

In this action the case for the plaintiff is that he on the 26th 
June, 1871, purchased one amunam of a field at a sale held under 
the provisions of the Ordinance No. 5 of 1866 ; that he held posses- 
sion thereof till the 16th July, 1890, when he sold it to Johannis 
Fernando for Rs. 150 to be paid in three instalments, and his 
purchaser gave him on the same date a mortgage bond to secure 
such payment ; that on the 19th January, 1893, plaintiff put this 
bond in suit in the action No. 532, and on the 14th March, 1893, 
obtained ex parte a decree nisi, which was made absolute on the 
9th May ; that in the interval between these last two dates, viz., 
in April, 1893, defendants entered into and took possession of the 
field, and thereafter, when in July plaintiff issued writ of execution 
and seized the field, defendants laid claim thereto, which claim 
was upheld on the 19th September ; and that plaintiff thereafter, 
under the provisions of section 247, Civil Procedure Code, instituted 
this action on the 27th September, and in the 8th paragraph of 
his plaint specially averred that the defendants have entered into 
and held possession for five months before the institution of his 
action. 

Now plaintiff. admits he did not get from the Government Agent 
the certificate which section 9 of Ordinance No. 5 of 1866 made 
sufScient to vest the property in him, nor a transfer of the land. 
The title of his execution-debtor thereto — the seizable interest i<^__-^T_ 

Digitized by VjOO^ IC 



( 204 ) 

1886, therein [which by a mistake in paragraph 4 of the plaint, that 
g ~r finds repetition throughout the proceedings, is termed a seizable 

A^. interest of the plaintiff instead of belonging to the plaintiff's execu- 
tion-debtor] — can therefore be one resting only on the quiet and 
undisturbed possession of plaintiff and his vendee by adverse 
title for over ten years previous to the institution of any action 
which puts in question the sufficiency of fact of such an alleged 
statutable possession. The learned Acting District Judge has held 
that such possession has been satisfactorily established. I think 
it is open to question whether it has been so, for though I believe 
the fact of the original auction sale, and though the defendant 
thereafter, on some date not given by her deed No. 4,965, gave as the 
northern boundary of her other two amunams this one and described 
it as the property of the plaintiff, it is in evidence that there 
have at different times, the dates of which are not clearly 
given, been disputes actually culminating in Gansabawa litigation 
respecting plaintiff's rights to the rents and revenues of the field. 
We have not the records of those litigations before us to say how 
far they disputed plaintiff's title to the land, or only raised some 
question as to fact or amount of rent or share due to him ; and 
it is for plaintiff under section 3 of Ordinance No. 22 of 1871 
(assuming at present he has right here to do so) to give full proof that 
his possession was imdisturbed and uninterrupted ; and next it 
must be observed that from plaintiff's evidence that he would not 
have put his mortgage bond in suit had not defendants taken 
possession of the land, and the fact that he paid no tax for 1893, 
it can only be concluded they had so taken possession prior to 
the 19th January, 1893, when he instituted his suit No. 535, and 
hence that the defendants had been in possession for at least eight 
months before he instituted this suit. Now, assuming as before 
that plaintiff would have right to sue to establish his r ortgagor's 
. title by prescriptive possession, and that under the decisions in 
Rimandthan, 1860-1879, and //. C, L. R. P. 45, he would, despite 
the decision in 8 S. C, C, 31, not be debarred by his waiting for 
those eight months from bringing his action, yet it is clear he could 
in January, 1893, have instituted either a separate cKtio hypothe- 
carta against the defendant as those then in possession of the mart- 
gage, or else have joined them as co-defendants in his action against 
her mortgagee instead of waiting for the improbability that 
on his issuing writ they would not dispute his right to make the 
mortgage exigible. 

Then arises the question which I have hitherto assumed in 
plaintiff's favour — ^whether under section 3 of Ordinance No. 22 
of 1871, and his right thereby to bring his action ^ for the punx»e 

Digitized by Vj ^ *^^ 



( 206 ) 

'' of beiiig quieted in his possession of lands , or to establish iS96. 

** her olaim in any other manner to such land," he can sue here rbowm 

to have established his mortgagor's title thereto by prescriptive A.J. 

possession of the mortgagor and his predecessors in title, which 

in this instance *' includes plaintifiF himself." The question must 

be asked as of any writ holder who had to sue under section 247, 

Civil Procedure Code, and crfter hearing the further argument 

addressed to us I consider such writ holder has no such right. 

The words are limited to his claim and prima facie relating to 

his own personal claim in and for his own personal rights have 

no words added thereto, which would give them this larger effect 

of establishing a claim for another, although in its other x>arts the 

section is so suggestive of and helpful to establish a claim through 

another. It was urged on us this would baffle many a creditor 

and help many a slippery debtor by debarring the former from 

contesting in a section 247 action a false claim preferred so plausibly 

as to be upheld by the Court, but it will be remembered 

that a creditor can by an examination of a debtor under section 219, 

before issue of writ, ascertain what prescriptive rights he has, 

so as to forestall any collusive claim, and that success in such an 

expedient may only result in an arrest and insolvency of the debtor. 

But all these considerations indicate to me that plaintiff's entire 
procedure has been erroneous, and that under the objectioDs 
taken in the answer and pressed at the trial the plaintiff is not 
entitled to sustain this action against the defendants. 

He should have instituted the hypothecary action against 
defendant in the first instance as part of, or concurrent with, his 
action against his mortgagor ; and if he elected to proceed with 
the latter alone imder the circumstances that (as he both alleges 
and admits) his mortgagor's residence was unknown to him, he 
should have followed the procedure specially directed for such a 
contingency by section 645 et seq. of the Civil Procedure Code, 
for section 648 makes special provisions for such a contingency 
as has here occurred, simplifying procedure and securing litigation 
more prompt and less costly than that which has been here adopted 
of action against mortgagor, claim, and this quasi hypothecary 
action under section 647. 

Not having conformed to the sequestration procedure against 
the absent mortgagor, I cannot regard the plaintiff to have 
established as against these defendants that he ever obtained any 
mortgaged decree. Moreover, the formal decree both fixes as 
the dat-e for payment one anterior to the date of decree absolute, 
viz., a date between those of decree nisi and decree absolute, but 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 206 ) 

1896. also does not at all conform to the requirements of section 201. It 
Browne, ^^^^ ^^^ show ex facie that the property decreed to be sold was 

A.J. mortgaged by the defendant to the plaintiff by his bond dated 16th 

July, 1890, and it gives no directions whatever for sale. It never 
empowered the Fiscal to seize the lands. The authority to him to be 
valid should have been given in the decree itself, and not in any writ 
or subsequent order. If it can be held that the decree obtained in 
his abortive or irregular mortgage action is good for aught as a money 
decree, and we could regard this as an ordinary case of a section 247 
action by creditor against claimant, I can only say that I regard 
the proof of ten years' uninterrupted and imdisturbed title as 
insufficient, and hold plaintiff is not entitled to succeed herein. 
But I am not disposed to allow the result of an action to be good 
for a purpose other than that to which it was originally directed. 
It would be plainly unjust to the defendants that we should do so, 
and thereby give plaintiff a general writ against all his property 
in the first instance instead of allowing to the debtor the shield 
of the value of the mortgage so far as it should prove effectual. 

I would dismiss plaintiff's action with costs. 



1893. BUDDHARAKITA TERUNNANSE v, GUNASEKARA. 

Sept. 27. 

D. C, Colombo, letter B, 

Joint lessors — action for rent by one lessor for his share of rent — »ub8eqtieni 
action by joint lessors — Spitting of cause of action — Civil Proce- 
dure Code, s, 34 — cancellation of Lease — rights of joint creditors, 

A and B being joint lessors, A sued the lessee for his half slsare 
of the rent on the lease for a certain period, nuaking B a party 
defendant to the action, eaid requiring them to show cause, if &ay* 
why judgment for half the rent should not go in favour of A. A 
recovered judgment. Subsequently both A and B sued the lessee 
for the other half shjkre of the rent for the above period, and for 
the whole of the rent for a subsequent period, andfor a canceUatioa 
of the lease. 

Held, that this action was maintainable, and that it was not 
barred by section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code. 

Held further, that in the case of joint lessors, each can sue the 
lessee separately for his moiety of the rent. 

Held further, that when a lease contains the stipulation tliat» in 
default of payment of rent by the lessee, the lessor should be at 
liberty to sue the lessee for a cancellation of the lease, the lessor 
is luider no liability to seek a cancellation at the default, but tbaT 
he may sue for and recover the rent at each of several defaults; 
and sue for a cancellation of the lease at any sijb^equent default. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 207 ) 

Per WiTHEBS, J. — When creditors have joined in stipulating for 1895. 
the payment of a sum of money, each is entitled to his quota of 

*^ '' , , , , / ... • ' J. BONSEB,CJ. 

that sum. When several debtors jom m promissmg to pay a 
sum of money, each is liable to pay a quota of that sum of money, 
and no more. This happens even when a plurality of debtors or 
credit^jrs intervene by the death of a single creditor or debtor 
leaving several heirs-at-law. 

•^T^HIS was an appeal from an order of the CJourt below rejecting 
J- a plaint on the ground stated at length in the judgment of 
his Lordship the Chief Justice. 

Pereira, for plaintiff appellant. The DiBtrict Judge has held 
that the present action is barred by section 34 of the Civil Procedure 
Code . That sec bion enacts that every action shall include the whole 
of the claim which the plaintiff is entitled to make in respect of the 
cause of action, and it applies to the case of a single plaintiff suing 
for a part only of his claim in respect of one cause of action, 
and then suing for the remainder in a separate action. In the 
present case, however, there was no splitting of the cause of action. 
The first plaintiff could only have sued for a moiety, in the first 
action, of the rent for the period involved in that action, and now 
both the plaintiffs sue for the other moiety for that same period and 
for the whole of the rent for a subsequent period. Our law allows a 
joint creditor to sue the debtor for his share only of the debt. 
He cited Van Leeuwen, bk. V., chapter 3, section 11, p. 524, of trans- 
lation of 1820 ; Pothier on Obligations, vol. /., p. 144 (Evans's trans- 
hUion) ; Van der Linden, book I,, p. 203 {Henry's translation). 

Cur. adv. vtdt. 



27th September, 1896. Bonsee, C.J. — 

This is an appeal from an order rejecting a plaint by Mr. Templer, 
Acting District Judge of Colombo. The learned District Judge 
has not followed the procedure laid down by section 48 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, for he has not specified the date when the plaint 
was presented and rejected, or the name of the person by whom it 
was presented, and whether such person was plaintiff or proctor 
as required by that section. 

The action was an action by two joint lessors of certain immovable 
property against the lessee, and it claimed on the part of one of 
the plaintiffs the half share of the rent for a certain period of time, 
and on behalf of both plaintiffs the whole rent for another later 
period, and the cancellation of the lease for a b'^each of covenant. 
The plaint w€W3 rejected on the ground that one of the plaintiffs 
had sued and obtained judgment for a moiety of the rent in respect 
of the period first mentioned. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 208 ) 

1895. The learned Acting District Judge said that that concluded the 

Withers, J. other plaintiff from suing for his share ; that the first plaintiff 
had no right to sue for a moiety of rent ; but that having done 90» 
section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code barred the claim of his co- 
lessor for rent, and also the claim of both to have the lease cancelled. 
The Acting District Judge held that the lessors were jointly entitled 
to the rents, and therfore that both parties must join in suing 
for it. 

If the law of England were in force here that would have been 
a correct decision, but the law of this Colony appears to be otherwise. 
The Roman-Dutch lawyers do not seem to have favoured joint 
obligations. They considered obligations as several, unless there 
were express words showing that the obligation was in salidum, 
or it so appeared from the nature of the case. 

With regard to joint leases, I find it laid down by Voei, book 
XIX., tit, 2, section 21, " Locati actio est personalis bonae fideiy 
^'quaelocatoridaturj .... si plures locaverint, singtdis pro sua 
** parte ; contra conductorem, et, si plures sint, contra singtdos pro 
' ' rata ; nisi alivd nominatim pacto actum sit, avi appareai, locatorem 
" singulorum personas in sclidum respexisse et ita duos pluresve 
" in solidum fecisse reos locationis,*' 

That seems sufficient to dispose of the objection to this plaint, 
and shows that the plaintiff was justified in suing alone for his 
own share of the rent. The other objection, that an action cannot 
be maintained for the cancellation of the lease, because an action 
had been brought for rent, is an objection which I cannot 
understand. 

A lessor who has been driven to sue for his rent is quite at liberty 
after having borne with the lessee's default for a time to sue for a 
cancellation of the lease, and thus get rid of an undersirable tenant. 



Withers, J. — 

I think the District Judge has quite misconceived the provisions 
of section 34 of the Ordinance when he applied them to this case. 
As to the question of law, I understand the Roman-Duteh Law 
to be as follows : — 

The payment of a sum of money is a divisible operation, and when 
creditors have joined in stipulating for it, each is entitled to his 
quota of that sum of money. When several debtors join in pro- 
mising to pay a sum of money, each is liable to i>ay a quota of that 
money and no more. A plurality of debtors or creditors may have 
existed at the time that the stipulation or promise was made, or 
may supervene by the death of a single creditor or debtor leaving 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



i 



( 209 ) 

several heirs-at-law. It makes no diflFerence. It is only when 
the intention of the contracting parties is clearly expressed that 
a divisible obligation shall be treated as an indivisible one, that 
one of several creditors cannot sue for a quota, and one of several 
debtors cannot discharge his obligation by paying a quota. 

The passage from Voet cited by the Chief Justice disposes of 
this case. To fortify my stateriient of the general law I will add 
a passage from the Digest {Corpvs Juris Civilis), lib. XLV.y tit. 2, 
Jr. IJ, sections 1 and 2. De dovbus reis constituendis. 

Section 1. — Cum tabvlis esset comprehensum, ilium et ilium 
centum aureos stipulatos, neque adjectum, ita ut duo rei stipvlandi 
esserUj virilem partem singvli stipuUUi videbanfur. 

Section 2. — Et e contrario cum ita cautum inveniretur, tot aureos 
recte dari stipulatus est Julius Carjms ; spopondimvs ego ArUonius 
AchiUeus, et Comdius Dius : partes viriks deberi : quia non fuerai 
adjedum singulos in solidum spopondisse, ita ut duo rei promittendi 
fierent. 

This is an ordinary contract of lease by two lessors stipulating 
for the payment of a certain sum by way of rent, and it comes 
under the ordinary law of stipulation by more than one creditor. 



1895. 

Bbownb» 
A.J. 



QUEEN V. AMARIS APPOO. 
D, C, Colombo (Criminal), J, 167. 



1895. 



Evidence — Admissibility of a confession — Burden of proof — Inducement. October 23. 

A statement amounting to a confession is inadmissible in evidence 
against an accused, xmless it be proved affirmatively by the prose- 
cution that the statement was not made under the influence of an 
invproper inducement. 

The mere fact that the statement was not made in answer to 
questions does not exclude the possibility of its having been n\ade 
a** the result of a threat or an exhortation to confess. 

THE feicts of the case are stated in the judgment of his Lordship 
the Chief Justice. 

Domhorst, for appellant. 

Dias, C.C.y for respondent. 
23rd October, 1895. Bonseb, C.J.— 

This is a curious case. The appellant was tindal of a padda 
boat, and he and the prosecutor live somewhere near Chilaw. 
The appellant has been in the habit for a good many years past of 

Vol. I. 12(64)29 ^ I 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 210 ) 

1895. bringing copperah down from the Chilaw District to Colombo for 
BoK8KR» C.J. sale. In August last he brought a boat load of copperah to Colombo. 
The copperah belonged to a number of persons. 

He took the copperah to Messrs. Freiidenberg's mills, accompanied 
by the owners, and there sold it to Messrs. Freiidenberg. They gav^e 
him a cheque for the whole amount, some Rs. 2,000. He weat to 
the bank and got it cashed. Then the whole party went back to the 
boat, which was moored in the river at Grandpass, and dined and 
slept there on board the boat. In the morning, when they were to 
have settled all accounts and each person to have received his share, 
the appellant getting his commission, the appellant took from his 
waist the key of the box in which the money had been deposited 
the night before, unlocked it, and the box was found empty. 

There seems to have been some little commotion and excite- 
ment about the loss of the money, and some one — ^it does not appear 
who — ^gave information about it at the Grandpass police station, 
whereupon the sergeant in charge sent a police officer to the boat 
to make inquiry. The police officer arrested the appellant and 
another man — a boatman — and took them to the Grandpass police 
station after searching the boat ineffectually for the missing money. 
There the owners of the copperah laid a charge against' these two 
men of criminal misappropriation of the money. The appellant 
was then taken to the Kotahena police station, and was searched by 
a police constable in the presence of a sergeant. A sum of Rs. 160 
was found tied in a handkerchief round his thigh. 

The accused were brought up the next day before the Magis- 
trate on a report from, the police, in which the names of the witnesses 
are given, which includes the police officer who searched 
the boat and the police officer who searched the appellant 
at the Kotah6na station. Evidence was taken by the Magistrate 
on the 22nd and 23rd August, and on the 23rd, on the conclusion 
of the hearing, the case was adjourned to the 27th, and the prose- 
cutor's proctor put in a further list of witnesses, and that Ust included 
the name of the police sergeant at the Kotahena station 
who was present when the appellant was searched. He was caUed 
on the 27th, and gave some very important evidence. 

He stated that about 10 or 15 minutes after the money had 
been found on the appellant, and after the appellant had been 
locked up, the appellant told him that he had sent a simi of Rs. 1 ,000 
to his village by one Podi Sinno, and that he had spent Rs. 90. 
He further deposed that the appellant did not make the statement 
in answer to any question put by him, but he does not explain 
how and under what circumstances, the appellant came to make 
this statement. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 211 ) 

This witness gave evidence at the trial before the District Judge, ^895. 
and that evidence gives quite a different colour to this aUeged bonsbb, C.J. 
confession. After stating the circumstances of the dicovery of 
the money on the person of the appellant, he proceeded thus : — 
** On this being discovered the accused voluntarily stated that he 
" had sent a £100 — ^no, Rs. 1,000 — ^to his country by one Podi Sinno 
" and that he had spent Rs. 90." Now that conveys the impression 
that the appellant was so overcome by a sense of guilty at the 
discovery of this money concealed on his person that he at once 
made a clean breast of the whole matter. Of coiurse that is not an 
improbable story in itself, but it is quite a different account of 
the matter from the account given to the Police Magistrate, and 
there is no doubt that the account given to the Police Magistrate 
is the true one, for the police constable says that about 10 or 15 
minutes after the man had been locked up he called up the sergeant 
and had some conversation with him, but that he did not hear 
what was said. The police sergeant, I should remark, stated 
that this constable was present at the time the alleged confession 
was made. Of course, if that confession was really made and was 
aximissible in evidence, the District Judge was quite right in finding 
the appellant guilty. But I feel serious doubt as to whether 
this alleged confession was properly admissible in evidence. It 
has been laid down by the English Judges that the onus is 
on the prosecution to show affirmatively that the statement was 
not made under the influence of an improper inducement. Now 
we are not told in this case how the man came to make the statement. 
All that the police sergeant states is that it was not made in answer 
to any question put by him. That does not exclude the possibility 
of its having been made as the result of a threat or an exhortation 
to confess. 

That being so, I think that this confession was not admissible. 
Apart from that confession, what evidence is there against the 
appellant ? 

There is the suspicious circumstance that the large sum of 
Rs. 160 is found concealed on his person. There is the statement 
made by the prosecutor Waas that when he woke up in the morning 
at 6 o'clock the appellant was not found in the boat. But no other 
witness speaks of Ms absence from the boat, and this witness does 
not say when he returned — and it might be that the appellant had 
a good explanation to give of his absence. It might have been a 
momentary absence to obey a call of nature, or it might have been 
an absence of some hours. As to that we are left in complete 
ignorance. On the other hand, there is in the man's favour the 
fact that he had been employed by these people in carryii 



Digitized by 



/'Google 



1896. 
BONSSB, C.J. 



( 212 ) 

their buBuiess of bringing down their copperah and selling it for the 
owners and aceounti^g for the proceeds for many years, and that 
he had never before been found in default. It appears that some 
ten persons slept in the boat on the night in question ; and the 
fact that the key was found in the appellant's possession, and that 
he produced it and opened the box seems to me to a certain extent 
to tell in his favour. Had he stolen the money himself, one might 
have expected that he would have dropped the key overboard 
and protested that somebody had stolen his key and thus got at 
the money. 

It appears to me that apart from the alleged confession, there 
is really nothing tangible in the evidence to bring home guilt to 
the appellant ; and the fact that this confession was not produced 
till a late stage of the case renders me somewhat suspicious of its 
truth. Taking, therefore, the case as a whole, I think there is 
grave doubt as to the guilt of the appellant, and that efiFect should 
be given to that doubt by acquitting and discharging him. 

WiTHBRS, J. — 

I agree., and have nothing to add. 



1895. 
November 6. 



PIERIS V. MAGRIDA FERNAOT)0 ei al. 
P. C, Colombo, 38fi81. 
Ordinance No. 6 of 1889 — Keeping a brothel — Evidence, 

In a prosecution under Ordinance No. 5 of 1889, for keeping a 
brothel, it was proved that a number of women occupied the place 
alleged to be a brothel, and that men of all sorts visited it both 
during the day axkd by night, and that spirits were drunk on the 
premises, and that there were fights among the people resorting 
thereto ; but there was no evidence of any act of indecency or 
fornication. 

Held, that the place was not a brothel within the meaning of 
Ordinance No. 6 of 1889. 

A brothel is a place to which persons of both sexes have recourse 
for the purpose of prostitution. 

THE first accused was charged with keeping a brothel, and the 
second accused with knowingly permitting certain premises, 
of which he was lessee, to be used as a brothel. They were convicted 
and sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 200 each. 

They appealed. 

Domhorst, for the first accused, and Jayawardena, for the sec? 
accused. 

Drieberg, for the Crown. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



i 



( 213 ) 

6th November, 1896. Withbbs, J.— 18»«* 

I am unable to support the. judgment of the Magistrate. He Withebs, J. 
has convicted the first accused in this case of keeping a brothel, 
and the second accused as a tenant for permitting the premises to 
be used as a brothel. 

In the case of Singleton v. EUisoriy reported this year, 1896, in 
L, B,y vol. /., Q. B., p. 607, it is said that the word brothel has a 
well-known legal acceptation. It applies to a place to which 
persons of both sexes have recourse for the purpose of prostitution. 
Not a single act of indecency or fornication is spoken to by any 
of the witnesses as having occurred in this house, which is said to 
be used as a brothel. 

A number of women occupy it and men of all sorts visited it both 
by day and by night. Spirits appear to be drunk on the premises, 
and fights are said to take place there, and the neighbours naturally 
regard the place as one to be put down. 

It must be a great nuisance to decent people, but the charge 
does not relate in any way to the offence of keeping a brothel. 
There is no evidence that it is a brothel. The conviction of the 
accused must therefore be set aside, and the accused acquitted 
and discharged. 




i 



PERUMAL V. TERUNNANSE. Septemb^Si. 

D. C„ Colombo, 6,667. 

Reduction of amount of claim — FcM of suit from a higher class to a lower 
doss of stamp dut^ — Right of paHy to use stamps appropriate to 
the lower class. 

Where a plaintiff, by reducing his claim by amendment of plaint, 
reduces the class of the case, the stamp duty payable on pr oceedingp 
after such amendment is as on an action in the lower class. 

THE facts material to this case appear in the judgment ol 
the Supreme Court. 
Domhorst, for appellant. 
Bavxt, for respondent. 

24th September, 1896. Bonsbe, C.J.— 

This is an appeal by the plaintiff against an order of Mr. Templer, 
Acting District Judge of Colombo, rejecting his amended plaint. 
The case illustrates the procedure of the District Court of Colombo. 

The action was by the assignee of a lease against the lessee, 
claiming Rs. 200 as rent, and also damages Rs. 1,000 for breach of 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 214 ) 

1896. certain oovenante in the lease as to the management of the land. 

BoN8KB,C.J. '^^ ^®® therefore W8S one for Rs. 1,000 damages and Rs. 200 for 

rent due ; but in order to bring the case within class IV. of the 

Stamp Ordinance, the plaintiff waived Rs. 200 of his claim, making 

his claim Rs. 1,000, which is the maximum amount of class IV. 

On the 26th of March the case came on for trial, and the plaintiff 
then wished to amend his plaint by abandoning his claim for 
damages, and making his claim to one for rent only, and he also 
wished to make some merely verbal alterations to correct 
some mistakes which were pointed out by the defendant's coimsel. 
Why these amendments were not made then and there, and why 
the only issue left as to the rent was not tried and determined at 
once, I cannot conceive. 

But that course was not adopted. The Acting District Judge 
allowed the plaintiff time to amend his plaint, but ordered him to 
pay all costs consequent on the amendment, while the costs of the 
day were ordered to abide the final result of the action. 

Then, instead of a day being fixed for the trial, the case was 
ordered to be taken off the roll. That was an order which ought 
not to have been made. Then, on the 30th of April, a motion was 
made on behalf of the plaintiff to allow the amendment which 
had already been allowed. 

That motion the Acting District Judge dealt with thus : h© 
ordered the matter to be listed for argument as to the sufficiency 
of the plaint as amended, on the ground that the plaint had under- 
gone a complete transformation by being restricted to a claim for 
rent only. Why it should have been listed for argument I cannot 
understand. Then, when it came on for argument before 
Mr. Templer as to the sufficiency of the amendment, he did not 
hold it insufficient, but he rejected it altogether, on the ground 
that the original plaint was one for Rs. 1,000, whilst the new plaint 
was one for Rs. 200 only, and he appears to have assented to the 
argument of Mr. Bawa, that the defendant would be seriously 
embarrassed by having a lesser liability to answer. He seems to 
have also thought that the defendant w^ould have to pay for stamps 
on all his processes as in an action for Rs. 1,000, and would not 
be allowed to \ise stamps as in an action for Rs. 200. In this I 
think he was completely wrong. I asked counsel whether there 
was any provision in the Stamp Ordinance which makes it necessary 
for parties sued for the recovery of Rs. 200 to use stamps as in 
an action for Rs. 1,000, ajid, as I expected, no such provision 
was forthcoming. We were told that this was the practice of 
the District Court. If so, the practice is clearly wrong, and 
the sooner it is altered the better. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



{ 215 ) 

The case should now be tried on the only issue left, that is, 1896. 
the question of defendant's liability to pay this sum of Rs. 200 Wuhkbs, J. 
for rent. I cannot make the District Judge pay the costs of all 
these useless proceedings. But no costs will be allowed of any 
of the proceedings subsequent to the 26 th of March, 1895, the day 
when the amendment was allowed either between party and party, 
or between proctor and client, except the costs of this appeal, 
which the respondents will pay. 

Wfthebs, J. — 

I quite concur. The simple issue to be tried is, whether the 
defendant is liable to pay a sum of Rs. 200 by way of rent under 
a contract of lease which has been assigned to the plaintiff. The 
plaintiff originally sued not only for rent, but also for damages in 
breach of one or more covenants in the lease. An answer was 
put in and the case was fixed for trial. On the day of trial the 
defendant's counsel took exception to certain passages in the 
plaint. The pleader, on having the weak places pointed out to 
him, asked the Court for leave to amend, which was granted. 

The amendment proposed was to introduce some apt words 
which had been omitted from the part of his claim, which the 
plaintiff desired to maintain, and to strike out his cause of action 
and prayer for damages. Why this could not have been done 
then and there and the trial of the simple issue proceeded with 
I am at a loss to imagine. However, it was not done, and 
Mr. Templer, who took up the case as judge, would not allow it to 
be done for reasons which I am unable to appreciate. Why a 
party who, having instituted an action in a higher class, reduces it 
legitimately to a lower class before the trial takes place, should be 
obliged to continue to pay the duty of the original class, I fail to 
understand. 

No costs will be allowed except costs of the appeal. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 216 ) 

1895. JAYAWARDANA v. DON THOMAS et el. 

NQoember J. 

P. C, TangaUa, 9,456. 

Criminal Procedure Code, a, 2)7 — Misjoinder of accused — Unlawful 

gaming — Keeping a common gaming-house — Evidence — Ordinance, 

No. 17 oj 1889. 

It is a misjoinder to try a person charged with the offence of 
keeping a common gaming-house along with one charged with 
unlawful gaming. 

The essence of the offence of imlawful gaming under Ordinance 
No. 17 of 1889 is the publicity which attracts idlers of all sorts to 
various forms of public nuisemce. It is therefore incumbent on the 
prosecution, on a charge of unlawful gaming, to prove that the 
house in which the gaming was carried on was a common gaming- 
place. 

If a man choose to allow the public access to his house, with or 
without payment, to play with cards for money, he uses it as a 
common gaming-house. But any nim^ber of a man's friends or 
ekcquaintances may play in his house every day with cards for money 
without an offence being committed against the Ordinance. 



o 



|N appeal against a conviction under the Ordinance No. 17 of 
1889— 

Domhorst, for appellants, contended that the proceedings were 
irregular. Unlawful gaming and keeping a common gaming-house 
being two distinct offences, the 14th accused who was charged 
with keeping a common gaming-house should not have been put 
upon his trial together with the other accused who were charged 
•with unlawful gaming. This court had held so in 23,756, P. C, 
Matara (11th July, 1895). And there was no evidence of unlawful 
gaming. 

Drieberg, heard contra. 

6th November, 1895. Withers, J. — 

The fourteenth accused in this case has been convicted of keeping 
a common gaming-house, and the other accused of unlawful gaming. 

The fourteenth accused should have been tried separately from 
the others in accordance with section 207, Criminal Procedure 
Code. The offence of keeping a gaming-house is quite distinct 
from the offence of imlawf ul gaming. 

In any case I should quash the conviction against the fourteenth 
accused. But having heard the whole case laid before me by 
counsel, I come to the conclusion that the conviction cannot be 
sustained ^gainst any of the appellants. 

As I have often said before, the policy of the Gaming Ordinance 
is to prevent people from betting or playing games for a stake in 
ft public place, and to prevent them from turning private hou8e« 
into public gaming-plaees. The real essence of ^he offence is thr 



Digitized by 



of ^he offenc 

y Google 



( 217 ) 

publicity which attracts idlers of all sorts to various forms of ^^^' 
public nuisance. Before any of these appellants could be con- Withsb8» J. 
vie ted, it was incumbent on the prosecution to prove that the house 
in which the accused were evidently playing with cards for money 
is a common gaming-place. 

The house, in this case, is the private dwelling house of the 
fourteenth accused, and if a man chooses to allow the public access 
to his house, with or without payment, to play with cards for money, 
he uses it as a common gaming-house. 

Any number of a man's friends or acquaintances may play in 
his house every day with cards for money, without an offence 
being committed against the Ordinance. 

I have no doubt the Magistrate is right in his finding that several 
people were plajong with cards for money on the night in question, 
including the fourteenth accused and the second accused. That 
does not of itself constitute unlawful gaming. It is for the prose- 
cution to prove that on the night in question anybody might 
have come to the house and join in the game played, whether he 
paid for the privilege or not. Accordingly, the prosecution is 
bound to prove that the house was open to the pubhc on that 
night ; of this there is really no evidence to my mind. Accordingly, 
I must set aside the conviction and acquit and discharge all the 
accused. 



GOONEWARDANA v. RAJAPAKSE ei al. 1895. 

October 8. 
D. C, Colombo, letter C. 

Bight of lessee to the action rei vindicatio or to a possessory action as 

against lessor — CivU Procedure — Motion for summons — Motion 

to forward case in appeal. 

A notarial lease is a pro tanto alienation, and gives the lessee 
during his term the legal remedies of an owner and possessor. 

When a plaint is accepted by the court, there is no necessity for a 
sepctf ate motion for stimmons, nor is a motion to forward the case 
in appecJ necessary after the filing of the petition of appeal. 

nnHE facts of the case are sufficiently stated in the judgment 
-^ of the Supreme Court. 

Sampayo, for appellant. 

8th October, 1895. Bonsbb, C.J.— 

This is an action by a lessee of immovable property against his 
two co-lessors, and another, who, he complains, have wrongfully 
ousted him. It appears from the plaint that the lease was made 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 218 ) 

^^- by a notarial instrument duly registered ; that the plaintiff paid 
BONaBB,C.J. in advance the rent for the whole term of five years and entered 
into the occupation of the property, and that having been in such 
occupation for more than a year, he was unlawfully ejected by 
the lessor and the other defendant, who has a lease of the same 
property from the lessors subsequent in date to the plaintiff's 
lease. He claims restoration to possession and damages. 

The Acting District Judge of Colombo, Mr. Templer, rejected 
the plaint, on the ground that " the statement in the plaint is 
" barred by a positive rule of law, that a tenant cannot sue his 
** landlord in ejectment ; and that his remedy is for a breach of 
" covenant for quiet enjoyment," in other words, that his only 
remedy is an action for damages. It is not stated where this 
positive rule of law is to be found, and I do not believe that any 
such exists. 

It appears that, according to the Roman Law, where a land or 
house was let, the " conductor," who in the case of land was termed 
coloniMf and in the case of a house inquilintts, was not r^arded 
as possessing the demised premises, for he did not claim 
to hold them vt dominvs, which was of the essence of possession, 
so that the lessor was still the possessor, notwithstanding the 
letting. 

If, therefore, the tenant were ejected by a third person, he was 
not entitled to the action rei vindiccUio, nor to the ordinary 
possessory interdicts. But by the Roman-Dutch Law, where a 
lease was for a substantial period, the tenant had the right to sue 
his lessor to compel him to give up the use of the premises during 
the term, and was not restricted to an action for damages for 
breach of contract. Neque dvbitandum videtur, quin, locatiane 
in decennium, vicenniumy Umgiusve tempua contrada, locator ac 
heredes ejvs personali actione amdv4yti compeUendi aint ad itaum 
conductori relinqtLendum intergro longo aut longissimo tempore in 
corUradu definito (Voet, XIX,, 2, section 1). 

Further, such lessees were, by Roman- Dutch Law, allowed to 
assert their right to the use of the land diu"ing the term, even 
against the purchaser, to whom their landlord had sold the property 
after granting the lease, although by the Roman Law the purchaser 
was not bound by the lease, provided, however, that the leases 
were by deed {Voet, XIX,, sections 1 and 2). 

The Legislature of this Island has still further recognized the 
rights of lessees. Ordinance No. 7 of 1840 makes every lease of 
immovable property (other than a lease at will or for a period 
not exceeding one month) void, unless made by a notarial instru- 
ment. Ordinance No. 8 of 1863 makes it compulsory to register all 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 219 ) 

such leases, and punishes non-registration with loss of priority. IS^6. 
Both Ordinances placed leases in the same class as conveyances witbkrs, J. 
and other alienations, and it is now impossible to treat a lessee 
under a notarial instrument, however short be the term, as a Roman 
colonus or inquilinvs. 

In my opinion we ought to regard a notarial lease as a ^o tanto 
alienation, and we ought to give the lessee, under such a lease, 
during his term, the legal remedies of an owner and possessor 
(see Z). C, Colombo, 55,552, Vanderstraaten, p. 283 ; and Perera v, 
Sobana, 6, S, C. C. 6J, where the distinction between a modern 
lease and a Roman coloniLS or inquilimis is recognized). 

For these reasons I am of opinion that the plaint discloses a 
good cause of action. 

I wish to add that the record shows that, even at this early stage 
of the action, at least two unnecessary motions have been made. 
At page II there is a motion paper containing a motion by the 
plaintifF*s proctor, that summons should issue to the defendants. 
This is unnecessary, for section 55 of the Civil Procedure Code 
makes it the duty of the Court to issue summons if it accepts the 
plaint. Again, at page 12^ there is another motion paper con- 
taining a motion, that the petition of appeal be forwarded to the 
Supreme Court, but it was the duty of the District Court to forward 
it without any special motion for that purpose. These motions 
serve no object. They only mean expense to the parties, and 
encumber the record with unnecessary matter. The costs of thase 
motions should not be allowed in taxation either between party 
and party, or between proctor and client. 

Withers, J. — 

I readily subscribe to My Lord's judgment. Lessees for terms 
of years under instruments duly executed and signed should have 
their tenure assured to them as if they had the civUis poasessio of 
the civil law. 

The possessory action should be open to them against whosoever 

ejects them by force, be he stranger or landlord, or one claiming 

under the landlord. Such leases may be regarded as sales for the 

term of the jtis possidendi, which the nature of the contract 

; requires. 

Motions for the issue of summonses on the presentment of a 
plaint are mere waste of time and paper, and even the Code does 
not say they are necessary. 

The Code enacts that motions are to be made only in matters 
incidental to an action in the course of it, and not when step i^ 
being taken in the regular procedure (see section 91). r^ i 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 220 ) 

^^^^' The issue of a summons is a step in the regular procedure which 

WiTHKRs, J. *^® Court has to take. 

There was a^ain no occasion to move that the petition of appeal 
should be forwarded without security. It was an ex parle order 
not requiring security. 

The costs of these motions should not be allowed in taxation. 



0^'23. SINNATANGAM v. SINNEN. 

P. C, Jaffna, 15,535. 

Contempt of Court — Disobedience of order of Court — Admission made in a 
former proceeding — Conviction upon such admission — AUerations 
in the record. 

In order to find a person guilty of contempt for disobeying an 
order of Court, it is necessary that such order should have been 
duly drawn up by the Court. 

An accused, who had admitted the truth of the charges brought 
against him^ having been once discharged, on his undertaking to 
do certain things, it is not competent for a Magistrate, upon 
finding that the accused had failed to fulfil his \mdertaking, t-o 
convict him upon his previous admission. 

If a Magistrate make any alteration or addition in any proceed- 
ing, he should note in the margin the date of such alteration or 
addition and initial it. 

TTTPON a petition presented by the defendant praying for a 
^^ revision of the order of the Police Court made on the 2l8t 
of September, 1895, the Supreme Court delivered the following 
judgments : — 



23rd October, 1895. Withers, J.— 

The matter of these revision proceedings is briefly as follows : 
On the 6th August, 1895, one Sinnatangam presented a complaint 
to the Police Magistrate of Jaffna, in which she chained the petitioner 
in revision and his daughter with various offences, viz., criminal 
trespass, voluntarily causing hurt, and theft from the person. 

On the day fixed for the inquiry, viz., the 17th August, the 
parties appeared before the Magistrate, and on it being represented 
by complainant's counsel that the parties were disputing about a 
piece of land alleged to belong to the complainant, which the 
defendants would not quit, this journal entry was made : — 

'* The complainant undertakes to pay Rs. 2 to enable accused to 
" put up a house for themselves. The accused undertake to quit 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 221 ) 

*' the house within three weeks from tliis date, that is, before the 1896. 
** 7th of next month. So ordered. withbbs, J. 

'" The complainant withdraws the case. Accused discharged. 

*' G. W. WOODHOUSE, 

" Police Magistrate." 
The next step occurred on the 21st September, on which this 
entry appears :• — 

" The accused, (1) Sinnan and (2) Vcunar Saravanai, are called 
" upon to show cause why they should not be fined for the admission 
" made on August 17, and for not obeying the order of this 
" Court. Vainar Saravanai states : * I was deceived. The com- 
"' plainant has nothing to do with the land. I will not quit the 
" land. Ariacutti and I own this land in common.' " 

And the following judgment was delivered : — 

" The accused admitted the charge on the 17th August and 
'* undertook to quit the land, andthe Court directed them to do so. 

*' The second accused now calmly comes into Court and says 
" that he will not abide by the order of Court. 

'* This is a case of contempt of Court, which aggravates the 
" offence, and I adjudge second accused guilty on his own state- 
*' ment of the charge made against him by complainant under 
**' section 314 of the Ceylon Penal Code, and sentence him to pay 
'* a fine of Rs. 25, or in default to undergo one month's rigorous 
" imprisonment. 

" The first accused is second accused's daughter. She is dis- 
'* charged with a warning. 

" G. W. WoODHOUSE, 

" PoUce Magistrate.'' 

This not being an appealable judgment, the party condemned 
petitioned to have it brought up in revision and quashed, and I 
directed that, upon due notice to the parties and the Police Magis- 
trate, the judgment should be brought up in revision. 

It is clear that the judgment cannot be sustained. No order of 
the Court was drawn up which the petitioner could have obeyed 
or disobeyed, and hence he would not be guilty of contempt for 
refusing to abide by an order which did not exist. 

If the petitioner was punished for one or more of the offences 
before referred to, on his own admission, that was clearly wrong 
because the Magistrate had discharged the man, and was fundus 
officio qua those proceedings. 

I may be wrong, but it appears as if some passages marked 
in blue pencil in the entries of the 17th August and 21st September 
liad been written in since my perusal of the record, which 
I called for after reading the petition in revision. Unless 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 222 ) 

1895. my memory fails me, the petitioner was adjudged guilty for 
BoN8BA,C.J. contempt of the Court's order and for that only, and I should 
like to know if I am mistaken. But on neither ground, o! 
'* admission'' or contempt of Court, can the judgment be sus- 
tained, as the Magistrate, in his letter to this Court, has sbovm no 
cause why his judgment should not be disturbed. 

The judgment and proceedings had upon the complaint in case 
No. 15,535 of the Police Court of Jaflfna of the 6th August should, 
in my opinion, be quashed. 



BOKSEB, C.J. — 

I agree that the proceedings should be quashed as altogether 
irregular. The Police Magistrate no doubt acted with the best of 
intentions, and desired to do what he could to bring the dispute 
between the parties to a speedy and satisfactory condusioD. But 
in so doing he has acted vUra vires. The law may be defective, 
as he points out, but the Magistrate is not a legislator, and he 
must give effect to the law as it stands : he must make the best d 
it. He has convicted a man of an offence on a charge from which 
he had been previously discharged on the 17th of August last, and 
he has convicted him on what, he says, is an admission made by 
him on that day. But there is no record of any such admissioD. 
Even if there had been, that admission made in a previous proceed- 
ing, from which the accused had been discharged, would not avai] 
to support a subsequent conviction. 

There is another matter which should be mentioned. My 
brother Withers, before whom this record came first, and who 
ordered it to be sent for the observations of the Magistrate, is of 
opinion that it is not in the same state as it was then. Certainly 
there are interpolations in the record in different coloured ink. 
The Magistrate should be called upon for an explanation as to 
whether he did make any alterations in the record, for if he did 
that, his act was quite irregular. If he did make any alteration, 
he should have a note in the margin initialled by him to show 
when the alteration or addition was made. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 223 ) 



OSSEN V. SIADORIS. 1895. 

November 8* 

P. C, Hattan, 18^10.' 

Possession oj false weights — Intention to tise fraudulently — Testing of 
balance — Ceylon Penal Code, s, 259 — Ordinance No, 11 of 1887. 

It is not an offeixce under section 269 of the Penal Code as 
amended by Ordincuace No. 11 of 1887 to possess a false weight 
unless such possession be with the intention to use it fraudulently. 

And the mere possession of a weight which does not conform to 
the standard, and even the use of it, is not presumptive evidence 
of an intention to use it fraudulently. 

A balance used for testing a weight which is alleged to be a false 
one should itself be tested before it is applied as a test. 

THE accused was charged under section 259 of the Penal Ck)de 
as amended by Ordinance No. 11 of 1887 with '* having been 
" in possession of a false weight intendiiig that the same may be 
** fraudulently used," and was convicted and sentenced to pay a 
fine of Rs. 25. 

The accused appealed. 

JayeuHirdenBy for appeUant : These is no evideace that the 
weights are false. There is nothing to show in what balance 
they were weighed. The difference may be due to some defect 
in the scales. Even assuming that the weights are false, there 
is nothing to show that the accused intended to use them 
fraudulently. It is essential that a fraudulent intention should 
be proved, as will appear from the express provision to that effect 
made by Ordinance No. 11 of 1887. The conduct of the accuseds 
clearly shows that they were not aware of the weights being false, 
and that they had no fraudulent intention. 



8th November, 1895. Withbrs, J. — 

The appellant has been convicted of the offence of bemg in 
possession of a false weight, to wit, a 1-lb. weight, intending 
that the same may be fraudulently used, against the provisions of 
section 259 of the Penal Code as amended by Ordinance No. 11 of 
1887 ; and the question is whether his guilt has been proved. 

The facts are briefly these. The appellant is a boutique-keeper. 
On the 7th of September last the appellant and other boutique- 
keepers were required by a sergeant of police to bring their weights 
and measures to the store of one Periyannen Chetty to be 
tested. Accused's boutique is opposite this Chetty's boutique, 
where the sergeant of police "was seated when he gave orders to 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 224 ) 

1896. ^Q boutique-keepers to bring their weights and measures. The 
Withers, J. measures not being presently in question, I confine myself to the 
weights. 

The accused brought out of his boutique a 1-lb. weight, a J-lb. 
weight, a ^-Ib. weight, and smaller weights. He declared those 
were all he had, and it is not suggested that he had any more. 
The result was that the sergeant complained to the Magistrate of 
the accused having in his possession two false weights, viz., a 1-lb. 
weight and a ^-Ib. weight (and a false measure). 

The sergeant says that he tested the weights in some boutique- 
keeper's balance against standard weights, and that he found 
them both short. He does not condescend to say by how much 
either of appellant's weights fall short of the standard 1-lb. and 
I -lb. weights, nor does he say whether, or how, he satisfied himself 
that the boutique-keeper's balance was a true one. This balance 
was not produced in Court. There was a balance in Court, with 
regard to which the Magistrate notes that the scales were perfectly 
fair. I assume it to be a true balance. A balance may, however, 
appear to be just without being so at all, and it should be tested 
before it is applied as a test itself. 

In another note the Magistrate observes that the J-lb. weight, 
tried in the balance in Court against a standard J lb., proved to 
be considerably heavier ; while of the 1-lb. weight he observes 
" it is evidently short." In another note again he writes : " The 
** pleader for accused here points out to the Court that the false 
1-lb. weight is shorter by half an ounce." 

The Magistrate has not expressly found that accused's 1-lb 
weight falls short of the standard 1 lb. by any particular quantity. 
As to the i-lb. weight the Magistrate left that out in his formal 
charge. Why ? It was as much a false weight as the other, if 
the balance used in Court is to be trusted ; and if he interded to 
use it fraudulently, it was an offence on the part of accused to 
have it in his possession. 

If he uses it knowingly in purchasing goods, it could only be 
with a dishonest intent. If he uses it knowingly for selling his 
goods, he is a superlatively honest man, but a foolish tradesman. 
If these weights are respectively much below and above the standard 
weights, it is almost incredible to suppose that the accused knows 
of their disparity, for much that he gains by the 1 lb. he would 
lose by the i lb. This makes one very sceptical about the accuracy 
of the balance used in Court. But if the weight is ujuier 
the standard, and therefore false, what is the evidence of 
intention to use it fraudulently? This weight bears the 
impression of "1 lb." on it. Did the accused know it to be 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 226 ) 

otherwise, or had he reason to suspect it ? He at once brought 1896. 

it with his other weights to be tested. He said they were _. , 

correct. Had he reason to believe they were not ? Except these ' 

two the others seem to be correct. 

The mere possession of a weight not conforming to the stand- 
ard, and even using it, does not necessarily imply a fraudulent 
intent. 

I am not satisfied in the first place that this 1-lb. weight is a 
false one, and of intent to use it fraudulently I can find no 
evidence. 

I therefore set aside the conviction, and acquit the accused. 



1895. 
SILVA V. RAMEN CHETTY. ^^^^5^ ^ 

D, 0., Kandy, 8,343 (Criminal). 

DefcnnaUon — Words per se corUumdioua — Presumption of evU intent — 
RebuUing evidence as to absence of animus et affectus injuriandi. 

Defendant having presented a petition to the Secretary of the 

Municipal Council of Kandy, containing the statement that certain 

persons, " including the plaintiff, are selling opium and bhang 

" secretly with the intention of making money fraudulently against 

* the Government " — 

Heldf that the above words were per se contumelious, and their 
publication should be presumed to have been made with a contu- 
macious intent, in the absence of proof that the defendant wrote 
the words complckined of sine injuriandi animo et affectu. 

T^HIS was an appeal by the defendant from the judgment of the 
-^ District Court of Kandy which condemned him in damages 
for defaming plaintiff in a petition addressed to the Secretary of 
the Municipal Council of Kandy, wherein occurred the following 
words : " the following persons [meaning plaintiff and certain 
** others] are selling opium and bhang secretly with the intention 
" of making money fraudulently against the Government." The 
defendant denied the defamation complained of, and pleaded that 
the petition in question was a privileged communication in respect 
of a matter which it was to the interest of the Municipal Council 
to know, and which he beUeved to be true. The District Judge 
held these pleas insufficient, and gave judgment for plaintifF. 

Domhorst appeared for defendant appellant. 

Van Lang&nberg^ for plaintiff respondent. 

Cur. adv. t^GoOQle 
Vol. I. 12(54)29 « 



( 226 ) 

1896. 8th October, 1895. Withbrs, J. — 

' It cannot be argued that the words used in the petition 

WiTujcBs, J. addressed by the defendant to the Secretary of the Municipal 
Council, Kandy, and informing him '' that the following persons 
'' are selling opium and bhang secretly with the intention of 
" making money fraudulently against the Government " are not 
contumelious in themselves. Then what follows, according to 
Voet ? Sin tales fuerint prokUi sermones, qui per se et propria 
significatiane corUumeliam inferurU, injuriandi animus adfuisse 
credituTy eiqve, qui ilia (sic) protvlit, probaJtio incumbit injurias 
faciend) consilium defuisse (Voet, XLVII, lOy 20), It was for 
the defendant then to satisfy the Court that his motive and 
intention (the affectus et animus injuriandi of Van Leeuwen) 
were innocent. 

It may be that an occasion had arisen in which the petitioner 
could have honestly represented to the Council that he had 
received information, which he had reason to believe, of illicit sale 
of opium going on in the plaintiff's premises. And even had this 
fact not been true, he might possibly have repelled the presump- 
tion of animus injuriandi by disclosing a state of crrcumstanceB, 
including his own prudence of conduct and honesty of purpose, 
from which the Court might have properly inferred that, though 
the language was contumelious, it was not written with xnjuriiMndi 
animo et affectu. 

It was clearly incumbent on the defendant in this case to 
dispel the presumption of a contumacious intention which his 
language created, because the plaintiff, not content to prove the 
publication of the libel, went into the box and deposed on oath 
that he had not sold any opium in his shop after his own license 
had expired. 

The decree must be affirmed with costs. 



Browne, A.P.J. — 

To the claim of the plaintiff for defamation contained in 
the petition by the defendant, the latter answered with (1) denial 
of the defamation and (2) with a plea that the said petition was 
a privileged communication addressed to the Secretary of the 
Municipal Council of Kandy in reference to a complaint, the 
truth of which he believed. 

I agree with the learned District Judge that this plea was 
wholly insufficient as a plea of privileged occasion. It was 
needful that the defendant should have set out in detail plainly 
and concisely the matters of fact and law which- would have 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 227 ) 

established that his communication was made bond fide and not 1800. 

maliciously, and on an ocoa>sion which gave the privilege. The Octobers. 

plea of the conclusion at which the Court should, after such detail, brownk, 

be asked to arrive is one on which no issues could be raised A.PJ. 
and so was bad. 

But somehow or other the issue of this conclusion was framed, 
to be pending between the parties, and when the Court below has 
refused to rule it in defendant's favour, this Court in appeal is 
asked to do so. Has the defendant, to sustain it, shown either the 
necessary absolute bond fide or protective occasion ? In the lower 
Court is offered no proof of either. In his appeal petition he 
submits he should be protected when he appealed for redress or 
protection to the legal machinery which created for him a certain 
right, or to a functionary who has partial control thereof. I think 
the simple answer thereto — ^the defect in the plea — ^is that he has 
not shown his appeal could per se avail him aright. There was 
no coercive power in the Municipal Council to restrain his rival 
and protect him. That could be ensiu*ed only by appUcation to 
the proper tribunal, and his appeal to any power save to it 
savours not of bond fides or proper occasion, but rather of an 
attempt to affect, and that not for his benefit, i.e., to injiu*e his 
supposed rival through the hands and at the risk not of himself, 
bat of the presumably disinterested Municipal Council or court 
sergeant. 

The devise is very transparent, especially when no' attempt is 
made to prove either requisite of the plea, and it to my mind 
deserves as little protection as the truth itself afforded to the 
deliberate famo&ua libelluSf for the reason that the writer 
infamare malicio quam accuaare (Voet, XLVII, 10, 10). I agree 
that the decree should be affirmed with costs. 

In view of Sergeant Simanpulle's evidence, it seems very 
possible to me that, had the learned District Judge held that the 
act of the defendant in regard to the second and third causes 
of action — ^whatever were their appropriate names — of " trespass," 
" malicious prosecution " — were truly of the description quicquid 
aUeriua infamandi gratia (ibid, section 8), 1 would have agreed in 
afi&'ming such decision also. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 228 ) 



1895. NICHOLAS DE SILVA v. SHAIK ALL 

^^'J ^ Z). O., CoUmbo, G 5,684. 

Christian marriage — Nan-regiatration — Ordinance No. 6 of 1847 — Bei 
vindicatio — Alienation by wife of property in community withota 
knowledge of husband — Estoppel-^laim by heir to property in- 
validly sold to third party — Right of such party to plead the 
exoeptio rei venditae et traditse — Jus retentionis — Rides as to 
impens» utiles. 
The 4th section of the Ordinance No. 6 of 1847 came into operation 

when Her Majesty's confirmation of the Ordinance was notified 

in the Oovemment Gazette of 8th December, 1849. 

A marriage solemnized by a minister of the Christian religion 

under the provisions of that section does not become null and void 

for want of registration. 

A wife, who lives apart from her husband by mutual conisent, 

Gcuinot validly alienate property belonging to the marriage 

community. 

Semble, per Bonser, C.J. — If the husband knew of the sale by 
his wife and raised no objection to its completion, he would be 
estopped from denying its validity. 

Per BoNSEB, C.J., and Withebs, J. {dissentiente Bbowns, 
A. J.). — ^A claiming as heir of B a moiety of a property which B in 
her lifetime had sold and delivered, without the knowledge of her 
husband, to C for value, may be successfully opposed by C pleading 
the escceptio rei venditae et traditae. 

Where a possessor, who has made improvements on a land 
believing it to be his own, sells it with the improvements thereon 
to another, he must be taken to have sold with the land the right 
to such improvements, and with them the right to defend possession 
of them by every available means, among which is the jus 
retentionis till the impensse vtiles are refunded. 

The jus retinendi passes in the sale from one bond fide possessor 
to the other without a special cession. 

The money which a bond fide possessor pays in discharge of a 
mortgage, which encumbered the property when it came into his 
hands, is tUilis impensa. 

The rules as to the extent to which the impenssB utiles can be 
recovered from the owner are : — 

(1) When the outlay has exceeded the permanent advantage 
to the property, the owner is only liable to the extent to which the 
property has lecJly been rendered more valuable by them. 

(2) And not even to that amoimt if the outlay has been veiy 
much greater than the owner would himself have made ; in which 
case, it is left for the judge to determine on a consideration of all the 
circumstances and persons how much should be recovered. 

(3) If at the time of the suit the improved value of the property 
caused by the expenditiu*e exceeds the amount so laid out, still 
only the sum tictually expended can be recovered from the owner. 

(4) When a cledm is made for compensation, an accoimt has to be 
taken of the mesne profits received ; and only so much of the 
expenditure, whether made on the production of the fruits or on 
the property itself, as exceeds the amount of these profits or fructus 
can be allowed, subject, however, to the preceding rules. 



( 229 ) 

(6) And in taking this account, fruits which have been consumed 1805. 

afi well as those which are still extant must be set off against the q^^ ^ ^^ 

clause for expenditure. The fruits of the expenditure itself how- Nov. 16. 

ever — frucUta ex ipsa meliorcUione percepti — are to be excluded from 

the accounting and not to be set off against the cledm. 

TDLAINTEFF alleged that one Rodrigo, being the owner of a 
-^ certain allotment of land with the buildings thereon, died 
intestate in October, 1888, leaving him surviving an only daughter, 
Johanna ; that Johanna married Don Juan Harmanis Appu and 
continned in possession of the said property from 1888 till she 
died intestate in November, 1891 ; that her husband, being entitled 
to an undivided half of the property, sold his moiety to plaintiff 
in January, 1894; that plaintiff was appointed administrator of 
Johanna's estate in April, 1894 ; and that defendant held unlawful 
possession of the property since January, 1894, and refused to 
deliver it to plaintiff. He prayed, for himself and as administrator 
of Johanna's estate, for a declaration of title to the whole of the 
said property and for ejectment and damages. 

The defendant, admitting that Rodrigo was the original owner 
and Johanna was his daughter, denied the other allegations of 
the plaintiff, and pleaded that Rodrigo mortgaged the property to 
one Silva Mudaliyar in January, 1888 ; that after the death of both 
Rodrigo and Silva Mudaliy&r, Johanna, who was the wife of one 
Carolis Silva (and not Harmanis Appu as alleged Jby plaintiff), sold 
it to Celestina Hamine in December, 1888, and out of the proceeds 
of the sale paid the amount of the mortgage to the administrator 
of Silva Mudaliydr ; that Celestina Hamine sold the property to one 
Ahamat in September, 1893, who sold it to defendant in December, 
1893 ; and that Celestina, Ahamat, and the defendant effected in 
succession necessary repairs and useful improvements at a 
cost of Rs. 2,000. Defendant prayed that plaintiff's action be 
dismissed, or in the event of the plaintiff being declared entitled 
to any interest in the said property, it be further declared that he 
be not entitled to the possession thereof as against the defendant 
until plaintiff paid to defendant the amount of the mortgaged debt 
paid to the administrator of Silva Mudaliyar, with interest, and 
the sum of Rs. 2,000 expended for repairs and improvements as 
aforesaid. 

Upon evidence taken and considered, the Acting District Judge 
(Mr. Grenier) found that Johanna weis lawfully married to Don 
Juan on the 28th October, 1850, at the Roman Catholic Church at 
Peliyagoda.; that after the solemnization of the marriage they lived 
together as man and wife ; that they subsequently separated by 
mutual consent, when Johanna lived with Carolis Appu ; that the 
plaintiff was the issue of the latter union ; that Johanna and Don 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



iTor. 15. 



( 230 ) 

1896. Carolis had no right to sell the property or to pay off the mortgage 

Oct. 4 and ^j^^^ ^ ^jj^ administrator of Silva Mudaliy4r's estate ; and that he 

was not satisfied that any repairs or improvements had been made 

by Celestina or others. The Court therefore entered judgment 

for plaintiff as prayed with costs. 

Defendant appealed. 

The ca^e came on for argument on the 4th October, 1895. 

Layard, A.-O, (with him Rdmandthan, 8.-0,)^ appeared for 
appellant : The alleged marriage of Johanna with Don Juan 
seems to fall under the Ordinance No. 6 of 1847, which by aection 
4 enables Christian ministers to solemnize a marriage " in any 

*' place of worship , either consecrated or licensed 

" for that purpose, in writing under the hand of the Govemor 
** and gazetted as such." There is no proof that the place where 
the parties were said to have been married was either consecrated 
or licensed. Don Juan swears that his marriage took place in the 
Roman Catholic Church at Peliyagoda in Siyan^ k6ral6, but he 
does not know even the name of the priest, nor signed any book 
in the church after the marriage, nor got any certificate of 
marriage. The marriage register produced is not signed by the 
parties or the priest who performed the marriage ceremony, and 
the Regulation No. 9 of 1822, section 21, makes the register of 
marriage sole legal proof of marriage. Thus the evidence of the 
solemnization of marriage is altogether defective. Even if proof 
on that point be assumed to be satisfactory, it would not help 
the plaintiff, as he failed to prove that the place where the 
marriage was solemnized was a place of worship either consecrated 
or licensed for that purpose under the hand of the Grovemor and 
gazetted as such. English decisions show that proof of one 
marriage ceremony, or one religious service held in a place, is 
insufiGicient to raise a presumption that such a place was duly 
consecrated or licensed ; and there is no proof in this case that 
any other marriage or religious service was solenmized in what 
is called the Roman Catholic Church at Peliyagoda than the 
ceremony between Don Juan and Johanna. But assuming that the 
parties were lawfully married, Don Juan did nothing to prevent 
Johanna from alienating the property in 1888 for the purpose of 
paying off he joint debt due by him and her to Silva Mudaliyar. 
He stood by and permitted her to sell the property, and so ratified 
her act (Orotivis, p, 28, Masdorp's translation). In any case, the 
defendant was entitled to retain possession till plaintiff compen- 
sated him for the necessary and useful expenses laid out on the 
property by his predecessors in title, his vendorrhaving receive 

Digitized by Vji 



( 231 ) 

from him an enhanced price in consideration of such expenses. i896. 

And the mortgage debt paid off should be considered utilis im- Oct. 4 and 
penaa (Voei, XVI. 2, 20 ; 3 8. C. C. 31). Judgment of Berwick, ^ov. U. 

D.J., in D. C, Colombo, 62,563 (3rd November, 1873). Bonskr^C.J. 

Domhorst, for plaintiff respondent. [Bonser, C.J. — We shall 
not trouble you as to the question of Johanna's marriage with Don 
Juan, but we should like to hear you on the other points.] The 
passage cited from Orotius does not go far enough to support the 
contention that by the husband standing by, when the wife signed 
the deed, he ratified it. But there is no evidence that Don Juan 
knew anything about this deed. Even if he had known of it, Sande 
I, c. /. clearly says that a woman cannot alienate without the 
authority or consent of her husband, and that from his mere 
presence at the time of alienation such authority or consent 
cannot be presumed. Her conveyance is therefore bad, and does 
not justify defendant's possession under her. Hence she has no 
jn6 retentionis till the expenses laid out are paid. (Van Leeuwen's 
Cens. For, IV. 38, 1 ; Edmandthan, 1877, pp. 313, 333.) Defendant 
has not suffered any damage at all. If he has, he has his remedy 
i^ainst his vendor for breach of warranty. There is no ground for 
holding that plaintiff and Johanna should be treated as one. The 
case for the plaintiff rests upon the fact that Johanna could not 
convey the property by herself. The defendant's title is thus 
without any foundation whatever. 

Layard, in reply, cited Story's Equity, sections 388 and 389. 

Cur. adv. rttft. 

15th November, 1895. Bonsbb, C.J. — 

This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court of Colombo. 
The action was one in which the plaintiff sought to vindicate 
certain immovable property of which the defendant is in posses- 
sion. The facts as found by the District Judge or admitted by 
the parties are shortly these. The property originally belonged 
to a widow named Christina Rodrigo, who acquired it by purchase 
in 1870. She had an only child, Johanna, married in 1850 to one 
Don Juan. In 1888 Christina died, having previously mortgaged 
the property for Rs. 1,100. At this time Johanna was living with 
one Carolis Silva as his wife, having many years before separated 
from her husband Don Juan, who was also living with another 
woman. Shortly after Christina's death, Johanna and Carolis 
Silva, as husband and wife, jointly sold and conveyed the property 
to Celestina Hamine for Rs. 2,400, and the mortgage was paid off 
out of the purchase money. In 1891 Johanna died intestate, and- t 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 232 ) 

1895. the plaintifif is her son and heir, and also her legal personal 
Oct, 4 and representative. On 30th September, 1893, Celestina sold and 
■ ' conveyed the property to one Ibrahim Ahamat for Rs. 4,500, who 
BoNS]SB,C.J. again in December of the same year sold and conveyed it to the 
defendant for Rs. 6,000. In 1894 Don Juan sold his undivided 
share of the property to which he was entitled as Johanna's 
husband to the plaintiff. The plaintiff therefore claims one 
moiety through Johanna and the other through Don Juan. The 
defendant by his answer denied that Don Juan and Johanna 
were ever married, and alleged that the conveyance to Celestina 
Hamine was therefore valid. In the alternative, if the marriage be 
proved, he alleged that Don Juan maliciously deserted Johanna and 
lived apart from her for twenty-five years preceding her death in 
1891, and that thereby Johanna became lawfully entitled to sell and 
convey the property. He fmiiher allied that Celestina EEamine, 
Ibrahim Ahamat, and himself had effected necessary and useful 
improvements on the property, whereby it had increased in value 
to the extent of Rs. 2,000, and asked for a declaration that he was 
entitled to retain the property until payment by the plaintiff to 
him of Rs, 1,100, the amount of the mortgage, and Rs. 2.000 the 
value of the improvements. 

Mr. J. Grenier, the Acting District Judge, gave judgment for 
the plaintiff and repelled the defendant's claim for retention as bad 
in law, even if the amount expended in improvements had been 
proved, which he held was not the case. He found that Don 
Juan and Johanna were lawfully married. 

At the hearing of the appeal, the Attorney-General argued 
first that there was no proof of the marriage between Johanna 
and Don Juan. My brother Withers has gone so fully into this 
part of the case in his judgment that it is sufficient for me tp say 
that I agree with what he has written. That, notwithstanding 
that both parties were living apart in adultery ,^they conaLdered 
themselves, and were considered by their relations, to be man and 
wife is shown by the fact that in 1874, on the occasion of the 
marriage of their daughter Johanna, they executed a notarial 
agreement, in which they made a settlement on their daughter. 

It was then argued that Don Juan by his conduct must be taken 
to have emancipated his wife as it were, and have held her out to 
the world as being entitled to deal with any property she might 
inherit as though she were a feme sole, and that therefore either the 
conveyance was valid in law or he was estopped from denying 
its validity. This argument does not seem to have been urged in 
the CoMit below, for the District Judge makes no reference to it in 
his judgment. No authority was cited to support the proposition 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 233 ) 

that when a husband and wife are living apart by mutual isos. 
consent, the wife can validly alienate the property belonging to Oct. 4 and 

the marriage community ; and I am of opinion that it is not law. 1_ * 

Had, however, it been proved that Don Juan knew of the sale by Bonskb, C. J. 
his wife and raised no objection to its completion, I should have 
been prex>ared to hold that he was estopped from denying its 
vaJidity. But not only is there no evidence of any such know- 
ledge on his part, but there is no evidence that he knew that this 
property had been inherited by Ms wife. I am therefore of 
opinion that this contention cannot be maintained. 

There is, however, an objection to the plaintiffs' claim as regards 
one moiety of the property, which appears to me to be a good one, 
although it was not expressly raised by the defence or urged on the 
appeal. The plaintiff claims one moiety as the heir and personal 
representative of Johanna. Now, Johanna and Don Juan being 
married in community, the property on Christina's death devolved 
on the community in equal shares, and on Johanna's death her 
moiety devolved on the plaintiff. As it would have been inequitable 
for Johanna to have repudiated her own sale and conveyance, so also 
it is inequitable for her heir and representative to do so. He is 
bound to make good the act of his atictor, and the defendant may 
oppose to the claim the exceptio rei venditx et tradit'B, That this 
exceptio is available, as well to this defendant as to the original 
purchaser, Celestina, is clear from the following passage of Voet : 
UtUur atUem hoc exceptione in primis quidem emtor, cui. 

rea vendita ac tradita fuit ac praeterea omnes iUi, qui 

cau8am ab emtore haberU, ptUa heredes ejus, ipaique etiam suxxessores 
pariiculareSt in quoa ab eo res ex lucraiivo vel oneroso titulo translcUa 
fuit; adeo ut emtor secundus autori seu venditori primo earn recte 
objecerit ; licet emtor secundums adversus avtorem primum ob rem sibi 
evictam agere nequeat, nisi actiones contra eum ab emtore primo cessse 
aint; legibus scilicet faciliu^ exceptionem aJtque retentionem qua/m 
actionem indulgentibtts (XXI, 3, 4). And that it is available not 
only against Johanna herself, but also against her successor, the 
plaintiff, appears from the following passage from the same author : 
Opponitur hxc exceptio non tantum venditori primo, sed et 
omnibus iUiSy qui ab eo causam habentes evincere rem ewtori primo 
annituntur quales sunt, quibus venditor jam dominus foetus 
eandem rem rwrsus titulo sive oneroso sive lucrativo concessit. 
Sed et heredi venditoris recte opponitur sive defunctus ipse, dum 
adkue superstes erat, dominium adeptus sit, et ex defuncti capite 
experiri heres cupiat, sive heres ipse rei per defunctum venditsB^ . j 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( 234 ) 

1895. dominus fuerU, ut tamen pasteriore casu rum uUra repdli pomt 
Oct. 4 and Jieres rem suam vindicana quam pro qua parte vendUori snccessU 

^' ' (XXI, 3, 3), For although the case put by Voet is one where the 
BoK8ER,C.J. deceased had sold property which at the time belonged to the 
person who afterwards became his heir, yet the principle that the 
heir is bound by the act of his atxtor and is bound to make it good, 
or as Perezius Prselectiones, in Cod. 8, 45, 2, expresses it, cogiivr 
prasstare Jactum defuncti, to the extent of assets descended, even 
though it be his own property that was sold, will, a fortiori^ apply 
to the case where his only title to the property is derived from the 
seller. I hold, therefore, that the plaintiff is estopped from claiming 
that moiety of the property which he derived from his mother. 

With regard to the other moiety, the case is different, but whether 
or not he would be liable to make good the sale of this moiety to 
the extent of the assets descended it is unnecessary now to decide, 
for it does not appear that any assets did descend. 

With regard to the mortgage, I am of opinion that it should be 
treated as a vtUis impensa. The property came into the community 
burdened with the mortgage. It was paid off out of Oelestina 
Hamine's purchase money, and that payment improved the property 
just as much as if the money had been laid out in material additions 
to the property. The question then arises. Has the subsequent 
purchaser a jtis retentionia in respect of impenssB vUles made by his 
vendor ? Although I can find no direct authority in the Roman- 
Dutch writers on this point, it would seem to be equitable that 
should be so, and the passage which I have cited from Voet (XXI. 
3, 4) favours this view, as also does the following : Nee dubium, 
quin iUiy quibua jus retentionia a lege vel conatietudine datum eat, id 
ipaum turn ad heredea atioa tum ad atuxeaaorea partictdares quHma 
vendiderunt, donarunt, legarurd, avt aiiter ceaaerunt mercedia exigendx 
auwiuum ve recuperandorum jua, tranamittant ( Voet, XVI. 2, 20), I 
consider that where a possessor, who has made improvements on a 
land believing it to be his own, sells and conveys that land with 
the improvements to another, he must be taken to have sold with 
the land the right to the improvements, and with them the right 
of defending his possession of them by every means which was 
available to himself, including the jtLa retentionia ; and this appears 
to have been the opinion of that eminent jurist Paulus, Dig. X. 3, 
14. See also Cod. 8, 45, 28 : Emtori etiam venditoria jura prodesae 
rum ambigitur. Si igitur vobia propter rei proprietatem mota 
fuerit quaeatio, tarn propriia, quam venditoria defenaionibtia uH 
poteritia. The question as to the amount expended as impenax 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 1^35 ) 

tUilea does not appear to have been sufficiently discussed in the iggs. 
Court below, owing probably to the view taken by the Acting District Oct. 4' and 
Judge that the defendant was not entitled to any jus reteniionia in ^'' ' 
respect of them . Bonseb, C. J. 

The rules as to these impenaaB are correctly summarized by 
Judge Berwick in his judgment in 62,563, District Court, Colombo, 
as follows : '' The rules as to the extent to which impensas lUilea 
*' can be recovered from the owner are given in Voeij VI, 7, 36 , 
" 37, and 38, and may be abbreviated as follows : (1) When the 
" outlay has exceeded the permanent advantage to the property, the 
** owner is only liable to the extent to which the property has really 
" been rendered more valuable by them, (2) and not even to that 
" amount, if the outlay has been very much greater than the owner 
'* would himself have made ; in which case, it is left for the judge 
''to determine on a consideration of aU the circumstances and 
" persons how much should be recovered. (3) If at the time of 
" the suit the improved value of the property caused by the expen- 
'* diture exceeds the amount so laid out, still only the sum actually 
" expended can be recovered from the owner. (4) When a 
" claim is made for compensation, an account has to be taken of the 
'' mesne profits received ; and only so much of the exx)enditure, 
** whether made on the production of the fruits or on the property 
'' itself, as exceeds the amount of these profits or fructus can be 
" allowed, subject, however, to the preceding rules. (5) And in 
*' taking this account fruits which have been consumed as well as 
" those which are still extant must be set of! against the clause for 
" expenditure. The fruits of the expenditure itself however — 
*'fnichia ex ipaa melioratione percepti — are to be excluded from 
** the accounting and not to be set off against the claim." 

Unless the parties can agree to a sum — which, if they are well 
advised they will do— the case must go back to the District Court 
in order that the amount of impenax utilea made by the defendant 
and his predecessors in title, Celestina Hamine and Ibrahim 
Ahamat, may be ascertained, in accordance with the foregoing rules, 
the mortgage being included in the category ; and it must be remem- 
bered that after the date of the litia conteatatio, or filing of the answer 
the defendant cannot be regarded as a bond fide possessor of the 
plaintiff's moiety ; and he must therefore account for the profits 
that he might have received as well as those which he actually 
received. 

The order will be that the decree be varied by directing that 
the plaintiff do recover from the defendant one undivided moiety 
of the immovable property claimed in this action, with a 
declaration that the defendant is entitled to retain the same untili- ^^^^T^ 

Digitized by VjOO^ IC 



( 236 ) 

1895. ^he plaintiff pays to him such sum as may be ascertained to be due 

OeL 4 and for impeMX vtiles in respect of such moiety. As to the ooets, the 

Nov^5. plaintiff will retain the decree for the costs of the action, but the 

Withers, J. defendant will have the costs of the appeal. The subsequent costs 

will be dealt with by the District Court. 

Withers, J. — 

The subject-matter of this action is a small piece of house property 
abutting on Hulftsdorp street, C5olombo. 

The plaintiff seeks to vindicate this from the defendant, who is 
in boTid fide possession of it and claims to be proprietor. 

The plaintiff claims in a three-fold capacity, namely, (1) and (2) 
as the heir and administrator of the estate of one Johanna €Uia8 
Johanna Silva, deceased, and (3) as purchaser from one Don Juan 
alias Harmanis Appu, husband of the said Johanna. 

According to the plaintiff, this property formed part of the 
common estate of the said Harmanis and Johanna, which the 
latter brought into the community about October, 1888, on the 
death of her mother, one Christina Bodrigo, to the estate of whom 
dying intestate he succeeded as the sole next of kin. 

The last mentioned fact is not contested. Johanna's marriage 
with Harmanis is disputed by the defendant, and at the trial this 
issue was tried and determined in the plaintiff's favour. That 
issue, it seems to me, was well decided. 

A prima facie case of a legal marriage by a Christian minister 
in a consecrated building between Johanna and Harmanis about 
the year 1850 is clearly made out by the testimony of Paulis and 
Silva, who witnessed its solemnization. The governing Ordinance 
at that time for marriages solemnized by a minister of the Christian 
religion was the Ordinance No. 6 of 1847. The 4th section of that 
Ordinance came into operation when Her Majesty's confirmation 
of the Ordinance was notified in the Oovernment Gfazette of December 
8, 1849. 

A marriage duly solemnized as the one in question must be taken 
to be good and valid in law. 

The 4th section referred to required that, immediately after the 
solemnization of a marriage according to its provisions, an entry 
thereof should be made by the officiating minister in a book to be 
kept for that purpose, in such form and material as the Governor, 
with the advice of the Executive Council, might prescribe, &c. 

I can find nothing in the Ordinance, assuming that the whole 
of its provisions had come into operation in the district where 
this marriage was solemnized, which is very doubtful, providing 
that the marriage solemnized by a minister of the Christian 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WiTHEBS, J. 



( 237 ) 

religion should be mill and void for want of registration. The 6th 1895. 
section of the Ordinance, which nullifies to a certain extent ^^'^^ jsf 
unr^istered marriages, does not apply to marriages solemnized by 
a minister of religion under the provisions of the 4th section. 

The attempt to prove later marriages, by Harmanis with another 
woman and by Johanna with another man, did not destroy the 
prima facie case of a legal marriage between Harmanis and Johanna. 
If they were contracted they were bigamous, but, in my opinion, 
the evidence falls short of proving a later marriage contract by either 
of these parties. 

Then two points were made by the Attorney-General on the 
assumption of a legal marriage between Harmanis and Johanna. 
He argued, in the first place, that the facts disclosed such a public 
abandonment of his wife by Harmanis as amounted to a 
complete surrender of all control over her person and property. 
She was virtually emancipated, so to speak, and left free to dispose 
of her person and property as she pleased. 

There would be considerable force in this contention if this 
view of the case was warranted by the facts, but it is not, in my 
opinion. Whatever the reason of the spouses for not cohabiting 
together permanently after their marriage, it is in evidence that 
the husband used frequently to visit his wife after her return to 
Colombo, and that as late as 1874 the husband and wife joined in 
an act of dowry to their daughter Juliana, and that Harmanis, 
Johanna, and her mother Christina were present at the marriage of 
Juliana that year. 

The second point was that Harmanis acquiesced in his wife's 
disposal of the house property, and that therefore he and his privy 
in estate cannot now be heard to say that Johanna had no right to 
dispose of the property. That argument would have much to 
recommend it, if there was evidence that Harmanis was present 
and cognizant of the disposition and acquiesced in it tacitly or 
otherwise. But this has not been proved. This disposes then of 
the naked title in the premises. 

The next contention for the defendant was that he was entitled 
to retain possession of the premises until he had received compen- 
sation from the plaintifi for necessary and useful expenses effected 
on the premises. He had not incurred this expense himself, but 
he had paid for it in the purchase money and had received possession 
of the premises from his vendor. 

Does thiBJiia retinendi pass in the sale from one bondfde possessor 
to the other without express mention, or does it require a special 
cession? In his chapter De Com, XVI, tit, 2, 20, Voet seems 
to say that it does pass in the sale, and the authoritiesedlfepvjOOQlC 



WiTHSBS, J 



( 238 ) 

1895. which he refers clearly say so. (See Dig, de Com. cUsivando, lib. Z., 

Oct. 4 and tit. 3, 14, 1.) 
Nov. 25. 

There remains the question, Can the plaintiff, who represents 
his mother Johanna, recover at all the moiety he derives from 
his mother as her sole next of kin, which she sold for value to 
Celestina, and Celestina sold for value to Ahamat, and Ahamat sold 
for value to the defendant ? These contracts of purchase and sale 
have been specially pleaded in the answer. Is not that a sufficient 
answer to the claim ? If A sells for value and delivers to me a 
land which does not at the time belong to him ; it he acquires it 
afterwards and brings an action to re- vindicate it, I may defeat 
him by saying, " But you sold and delivered it to me." I may 
plead '* sale and delivery " with equal effect against the true 
proprietor who, inheriting the land from my vendor, seeks to 
revindicate it, and this plea is available to those to whom I sell for 
value and their assigns. (See Dig. de XXI. tit. 3, 3.) 

I take the principle on which these pleas rest to be this. The 
title, whether acquired by the vendor in his lifetime or by the 
heir on the death of the vendor, relates back to the date of the 
sale for the benefit of the purchaser for value. Hence, in my 
opinion, the plaintiff's action for a moiety of the premises must 
be dismissed. 

The representative of Johanna is in no better position than 
Johanna as to her moiety, and her action could have been weU 
met by the exception of sale and delivery. 

In my opinion, the money which went to relieve the property 
of the burden of the mortgage should be included within a neces- 
sary or useful expenditure. Hence the defendant is entitled to 
retain possession till the plaintiff, as the assign of Harmanis, has 
paid or secured the repayment of half the mortgage sum, Rs. 1,100. 
As such assign, plaintiff is further obliged to pay or secure half of 
the necessary and useful expenses incurred by the defendant's 
predecessors in possession other than the discharge of the mortgage. 
These have not been assessed by the District Judge ; and the case 
should go back for this purpose. I concur in the order as to costs 
proposed by the Chief Justice. 

I have had the advantage of reading Mr. Acting Justice Browne's 
judgment ; and while I quite concur with him in regarding the 
sale of her moiety of the premises by Johanna as no sale at all, I 
only differ from him in thinking that Johanna could not be heard 
to say she had not sold it if she had survived her husband and 
endeavoured to vindicate her moiety from the defendant. If she 
could be met by a plea of sale and delivery, it seems to me her 
legal representative or heir-at-law can be likewise^ "oooIp 

igi ize y g 



( 239 ) 

BsowinB, A.J. — ^I regret that I am unable to oonour with my 1895. 
Lord the Chief Justice and my brother in limiting the rights of Oct, 4 and 
the plaintiff to recover only a moiety of the premises in claim. ^^' 
In proof of the first issue — ^the alleged marriage of Juan and J^BowinB,A.J. 
Johanna on the 28th October, 1850 — ^there were adduced the 
certificate A which asserts (if the translation be correct) that they 
were members of the Catholic Church, and that a certain minister 
solemnized their marriage '' at the said church/' The name of 
the church is not given in the extract : it may have been at the 
head of the page or volume of which the extract is a part. But 
the deficiency is supplemented by the oral proof, which not only 
showed that the place was the Roman Catholic Church of Peliya- 
goda, but sufficiently proved the ceremony to have been a Christian 
one. Had it not been a marriage to which the provisions 
of Ordinance No. 6 of 1847 was applicable, but (as the learned 
Attorney-General contended by the want of the Proclamation, 
which section 5 thereof required) one the validity of which was 
to be determined by the provisions of Regulation No. 9 of 1822, 
any defect in the legality of it for want of registration required 
by the Regulation was cured by the 3rd section of Ordinance 
No. 13 of 1863, so long as no proof were given of any subsequent 
legal marriage of either party with another. Such proof has not 
been offered here of a l^al marriage with CaroUs, nor has it been 
contended that the proviso to that section to protect rights acquired 
through the invalidity of the first marriage had appUcation here. 
I however agree with my brother that the provisions of Ordinance 
No. 6 of 1847 are those by which the rights of the marriage should 
be proved or challenged, since its applicability to Christian 
marriages was not made contingent upon proclamation of it, but 
specially exempted therefrom. And while that Ordinance specified 
what should be the best proof of any marriage solemnized by a 
registrar, it did not so prescribe in regard to Christian marriages, 
BO that want of proof of registration is not fatal. Even if it were, 
however, section 3 of Ordinance No. 13 of 1863 would have the 
same curative effect. 

1 therefore agree that the first contention for the appellant 
cannot be sustained. As to the second and third contentions, I 
know of no authority for the position that the wife ever could 
become emancipated from the power of her husband, even though 
she might have left him for his fault or with his will, and further 
might have herself lived in adultery. By divorce alone could she 
in his lifetime have been so freed from his authority, and all her 
contractual acts thereafter can be of no validity against him when 
he survived her, save such as she has entered into with his conseijt^ GoOqIc 



( 240 ) 

18M. and authority, or those when he wajs prassens cUque sciens, of which 
Nw.isf ^®^ ^^ proof has been given. I fail, however, to see how 

his fictua consensus by mere presence and knowledge if proved 

BowNE,A.j. QQjji^ gQ supplement her notarial acts as to pass title by her deed. 
Before entering into the consideration of the ulterior questions, 
I would wish to have it remembered — what the judgment of 
Mr. Berwick, D.J., quoted by my Lord the Chief Justice, indicates 
to me should be borne in mind — ^that the bond fide possessor may 
on eviction have his claim for compensation partly against his 
evictor and partly against his vendor ; and that even though 
plaintiff here is as to a moiety the administrator of a vendor, 
defendant's predecessor in title, Johanna, was only one of two such 
vendors, and that it might be possible that a Court before whom 
Celestina's ultimate action might be tried might feel itself justified 
in giving judgment against Carolis solely and not against her, 
so that plaintiff ought not now to be regarded as aught save an 
evictor. 



In the absence of all authority from her husband, I feel it 
incumbent upon me to hold that the alleged sale and conveyance 
by Johanna to Celestina f eU under the general rule. Voet {XXIII. 
2, 42) : Ex hujv^smodi cotUractUms neque maritus neque uxor skmU 
avi soltUo matrimonio, conveniri queant sed caniractus ipso jure 
nvJlus fit. To this rule there were possibly exceptions in two 
instances, — when the contract of the wife was regarded as in 
suspenso usque ad mortem viri quo tempore mvlier jam sui juris 

effecta possit ex contractu a se inito quia res pervenerit ad 

eum casum a quo incipere potuerat {Sande Dec. Fris, II, 4^ 2), and 
when both the muritus et uocor hcupletiores facti sunt {Voet, ibid, 44) 
by the result of her transaction. This case is not within either 
exception. The husband survived her and may be even still aiive. 
She never became sui juris to enable the results consequent thereon 
to follow ; and I find no authority that in a case of this kind, on her 
death first occurring, her half of the community or her h^' had 
that which till then was ineffective made effective against them. 
And when her paramour and she pocketed the Bs. 1,300, 
net surplus of the price Celestina paid after thereout paying the 
Rs. 1,100 mortgage, the husband certainly did not become locupl^icr 
thereby. I do not indeed see that the mere realization of the net 
cash value of any of the property of the matrimonial community 
could be said to make the spouses locupletiores. Even if it could 
be so regarded in some cases, has the husband here in trxAh 
been at all enriched ? When now seven years after his wife's 
alleged sale of the property he seeks to reclaim it, he can do 
so (as we are now holding) only after rep^^ngQ^^p money 



( 241 ) 

disbursed in discharge of the mortgage and the various impensHs 1895. 

allowable against heirs, or may have to wait patiently for some Oct, 4 and 

years to come till the rents and profits recoup these to the b<md ^' ' 

fide possessor. Even though his interest on the former of these is Bbownb, 

reduced by 3 per cent., I cannot regard it to be proved that he has 

been enriched. I regret therefore that I cannot agree with my Lord 

the Chief Justice and my brother in holding either that the wife 

ever sold and delivered this property or so entered into any legal 

transaction, and that the exceptions thereof could be allowable to 

her purchaser and the plaintiff, thereby limited to a right to reclaim 

only the husband's half of the property after the death of the wife. 

I consider he should be allowed to vindicate the entirety on payment 

of all these charges. My regret is lessened by the consideration that 

such a ruling would be in maintenance of the original marital 

power, and that if the successive purchasers are driven to reclaim 

their moneys from their respective vendors, Garolis the paramour 

and other representatives and not the plaintiff in his capacity of the 

wife's administrator, may be the one who will have to repay Rs. 2,400. 

Defendant limited his further defence beyond title to this 
averment that Celestina Hamine, and thereafter his successors 
in title, including himself, had effected necessary and useful improve- 
ments and repairs [he claims no impenses volupttuirias on the 
premises by erecting new buildings and otherwise, and that thereby 
the premises have been increased in value to the extent of Rs. 2,000. 
He filed no accounts particularizing the same, nor stating by whom 
they were effected, nor showing what rents and fruits therefrom 
came to him for which he might possibly be held liable to 
account. 

The only proof offered on the subject is that Celestina Hamine 
as to repairs, renovated the roof, two windows, and a door when 
they were rotten, and as to improvements, built two fresh walls, 
and pulling down one house built an upstair house in its stead. 

These works cost Rs. 2,200, and the rent rose from Rs. 20 to 
Rs. 55 a month. The augmentation of rent would thus have 
repaid by this time the principal outlaid. The evidence thus 
shows that defendant himself expended nothing, and his claim to 
what would in effect be an hypothecary decree for retention till 
he bad recouped outlay out of rents, rests solely upon the facts of 
Celestina's outlay. 

While so far as I can see from Voet {XVIII. VI. 9 and XXI,, 
II. 17), the right to sue (as in 3 S. C. C. 30) for the value 
of improvements to land would have to be expressly ceded 
to a purchaser, I agree that the jus retentionis and the defence ^^ 

Vol. I. 12(5 t)2r^ ^^ GoOgle 



( 242 ) 

1896. thereof here pleaded passes under the authorities cited by my 
^v* ^ "r* brother without such cession. But the question arises in respect 

' ' of what items and their value will this right be allowed ? 
Bbowne, 

^*^' In his judgment Mr. Berwick, D.J., pointed out as the r^ult 

of a comparison of Voet (F. ///. 21 and VI. /. 36 , how much, less 
both the correlative rights of retention and liabilities for past 
profits recovered are when property is recovered ret vindiaUione 
from a bond fide possession than in the case of the recovery of the 
inheritance. In the former case, such as here, the possessor 
accounting only for fruits not yet consumed has right in account- 
ing to claim for all impensce necessaricB. As to impens(B utiles 
in so far as they rendered the property more valuable, he may 
recover the amount thereof when they do not exceed the amount 
of the increased value : when they exceed the tUilitas or mdioraiio 
found at the date of action he may even recover the excess, unless, 
in the opinion of the Judge, founded on personal and other con- 
siderations, the excess is too great or the true owner would not 
have incurred them, in which cases, as also in the case of impenace 
volupttuzricey he may remove whatever would be of use to imnseU 
as far as he can sine rei detrimento, or else receive payment of as 
much as it may be held the true owner would have spent. 

Unless therefore the parties shall agree as my Lord has suggested, 
the action must be remitted, and the defendant should, in my 
opinion, file schedules of all works done, distinguishing them into 
these three classes, and of aU profits received since action brought. 
Though defendant does not admit any outlay wos for luxurious 
purposes, plaintiff might so classify some of it, and the C!ourt iirould 
have to classify all the several moneys outlaid, and determine 
which the plaintifif must pay. He then could be given the option 
of paying such amount, and in default thereof the Court would 
declare the respective rights of retention, and (on its expiry) of 
removal of the still useful subjects of the past tUiles et voluptttaria 
outlay which plaintiff does not require, and defendant may remove 
without injury to the property. I agree that the Rs. 1,100 and 
legal interast should be included among the impensce utiles, and 
that the property should be regarded as still ameliorated thereby, 
so that the jris retentionia shall obtain in respect of it, especially 
in view of the favour in which this Court regarded such payments 
1 Lor. 128 and 3 Lor. 235. 

I would, however, make the relief thus allowed and rights declared 
applicable to the whole of the plaintiff's claim and the whole of the 
defendant's outlay in cash that shall be allowed. 

I would allow plaintiff's costs in the lower Court hitherto incurred, 
and defendant have costs of this appeal. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 243 ) 

In the Matter of HAYMAN THORNHILL, Insolvent. 1895. 

Septen^er29. 
D. C, Colombo, 1,822, 

Appeal — Delay in forwarding appeal — Insoli^ency Ordinance — Civil 
Procedure Code, a. 438 — Description of insolvent — Debt of petition- 
ing creditor — Motion for annulment of adjudication of insolvency 
— Technical objections. 
A District Judge has no right to delay the forwarding of a case 

in due course to the Supreme Court after the appeal has been 

perfected. 

It is svifiicient if a petitioning creditor's debt is proved in accord- 
ance with the form in the schedule to the Insolvency Ordinance. 

The Civil Procedure Code does not effect proceedings under the 
Insolvency Ordinance, and an affidavit proving a debt in insolvency 
proceedings need not, therefore, be in accordance with section 438 
of the Code, but may follow the form given in the schedule to the 
Ordinance. 

In a petition to have a person declared insolvent it is not sufficient 
to state his name only, but his description and siddress should be 
given. 

One of several partners of a firm having petitioned to have a 
person declared insolvent on the footing of a debt due to the firm, 
it was objected that the petition was irregular, inasmuch as the debt 
was not due to the petitioner only, and that he should have pro- 
duced the power of attorney authorizing him to sign for the firm : 

Held, that the objections were too technical to be given effect to, 
in the absence of some injustice suffered on the merits. 

One partner of a firm may sign such petition for himself and on 
behalf of the others without a power of attorney from the latter. 



T 



HE facts of thfe case are set out in the following judgment. 



Domhorst appeared for the creditor appellant ; Bawa, for in- 
solvent respondent ; Chapman, for petitioning creditor. 

20th September, 1895. Bonser, C.J.— 

This is an appeal by a creditor of a person who is described as 
Hayman Thornhill, of Colombo. Whether that person is male 
or female, or whether it has any occupation or business, does not 
appear. 

The insolvent was adjudicated insolvent on the petition of one 
William Jenkins, who gives the vague address, Colombo. The 
appellant is a creditor, and he objected to the adjudication and 
moved that it be annulled. That application was refused, and he 
has appealed to this Court. The appeal was perfected on the 22nd 
July, but the papers were not transmitted to the Supreme Court 
until the 31st of August, and they were not received here till the 
3rd of September, 'whereas they ought to have been sent on or 
soon after the 22nd of July. 

This detention of the proceedings was quite irregular. The 
District Court has no right to take upon itself to delay an ^PPp^^pkrAQjp 

igi ize y g 



( 244 ) 

1895. That this was done intentionally appears from the fact that it is 
SepUmber 20, recorded that a motion was made on the 7th of August, 1895, by 
BoNSER, C.J. ^^^ proctor for the insolvent, that ** the record be not forwarded 
" to the Supreme Court until after the 16th instant." The District 
Judge, instead of dismissing that motion with costs, allowed it to 
stand over for a few days. I mention this because I wish it to be 
understood that a District Judge has no right to delay appeals. 



The objections taken to the jurisdiction were of a highly technical 
nature. The first was, as I understood it, that the petition was 
not the petition of the real creditor, but was only the petition of 
one of several joint creditors. The debt was not due to William 
Jenkins, but was due to him and his co-partners, who were trading 
under the firm of Cargill & Co. Strictly speaking, the petition 
ought to have been the petition of the three persons to whom the 
debt was due. But that objection is a purely technical one, and I 
do not think the Court is bound to give effect to it, uinless some 
injustice has been done. It appears on the face of the petition 
that it was a debt due to the firm. Then it was said that the power 
of attorney ought to have been produced empowering Mr. Jenkins 
to sign the petition on behalf of his partners. But I do not see that 
that is necessary, for, in the form given in the schedule to the Ordi- 
nance (form B), there is a note which sets out " if the petition be by 
** partners, alter the form accordingly, and let it be signed by one on 
" behalf of himself and partners." Strictly speaking, either all 
three partners ought to have signed the petition, or it should have 
been signed by the one partner, William Jenkins, on behalf of himself 
and his two other partners ; but that is a pure technicality which 
does not in any way affect the merits of the case. 



Then it was said that there was no proper proof of the petitioning 
creditor's debt, but the proof given was in accordance with the form 
in the schedule, and was sufficient. Another objection was, that 
the affidavit verifying the petition does not state that it was signed, 
as well as sworn, before a Justice of the Peace as required by section 
438 of the Civil Procedure Code, but we have held in a recent case 
that the Civil Procedure Code does not affect proceedings under the 
Insolvent Ordinance, and the form given in the Insolvent Ordinance 
does not require more than that the affidavit should be sworn before 
a Justice of the Peace. Therefore that objection fails. 



I think, therefore, there is no ground for setting aside this adjudi- 
cation, and the apx)eal must be dismissed. At the same time I 
should point out that the petition appears |^.^.h|i^e(^been drawn 



( 245 ) 

very carelessly. It is not sufficient merely to describe a person who ^^^^* 
is petitioned against as Ram Menika or John Smith of Colombo. September 20. 
The description and address of the person should be given so that 
creditors and other persons concerned may know that the person 
who is to be adjudicated insolvent is their debtor, and the person 
with whom they have had dealings, and in whose affairs they are 
interested. 

The appeal will be dismissed, but there will be no costs. 

WiTHBKS, J. — I agree. 



In the Matter of the Last Will and Testament of JOHN ARON iggs. 

FERDINANDUS. Sepien^26. 

Z). C, Colcmbo, C 570, 

Formal order of court — Probate — Caveat — Ex parte order — Notice of 
appeal — Civil Procedure Code, 88, 535 and 526 — Useless motions. 

An order to be treated as such must be formally drawn up and 
recorded as required by the Civil Procedure Code. 

After an order absolute in the first instance under section 529 of 
the Civil Procedure Code granting probate of a will to an applicant 
has been made, it is too late to enter a caveat under section 535. 

If the probate has been granted wrongly, it may be recalled under 
section 536. 

Such an order upon a motion, notice whereof was not given to any 
person, is an ex parte order, although it was made after such person 
had appeared and opposed the motion, and no notice is necessary 
to be given to such person of an appeal preferred by the applicant. 

When an application for probate is once allowed, there is no 
necessity for further motion that probate do issue to the applicant. 

ON the 1st March, 1895, Louisa Karunaratna, who was named in 
a document which purported to be the last will of J. A. 
Ferdinandus, deceased, as his executrix, presented to the District 
Court a petition and affidavit, together with the said last will, and, 
in terms of section 525 of the Civil Procedure Code, moved for 
probate thereof, alleging that she had no reason to suppose that 
her application would be opposed by any person. The District 
Judge made an order absolute, under section 529, declaring the 
will proved, and that probate do issue on her taking the oath of 
office. Six days afterwards certain persons filed in Court a docu- 
ment in the nature of a caveat. The petitioner, ignoring this 
opposition, took her oath of office and moved ex parte that 
" probate be granted " to her. The caveators appeared and opposed 
the motion. The Court ordered that the petition and affidavit 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 246 ) 

1895. £ie^ )yy Louisa Karunaratna be taken off the file, and that she 
September 26» j^ gj^ ^ fresh petition and affidavit naming the caveators as 
BoKSEB»C.J. respondents. 

The petitioner appealed as from an ex parte order. 

Rdnumdthan, S,-0, (with him Pereira), appeared for her. 

Layard, A.-Q., appeared for the caveators and took the prelimi- 
nary objection that they had not received notice of appeal. 

Rdman&thant S.-O. — No notice is necessary, as the order of the 
Court below should be looked upon as ex parte notwithstanding 
the appearance of the so-called caveators. Probate had been duly 
allowed, and therefore the remedy by caveat was not admissible, 
and the so-called caveators are not respondents truly. [Bonseb, 
C.J. — We think the preliminary objection must be overruled.] 
If probate had been allowed improperly, the right course is to 
recall it, under section 536. As the case now stands, probate being 
now granted and the oath of office taken, it is the duty of the secre- 
tary to issue probate as a matter of course. 

26th September, 1895. Bonser, C.J.— 

This is an appeal against an order of Mr. Grenier, Acting District 
Judge of Colombo, in which he ordered that the petition and affidavit 
filed, together with the schedule referred to therein, be taken off 
the file, and that the appellant, as executrix, do file a fresh petition 
and affidavit, naming the caveator and the persons mentioned in 
Mr. Alwis' appointment of date the 6th March, 1895, as respondents, 
and that proceedings be thereafter taken by the executrix as in the 
case where respondents are named in a petition of this character. 
This, although it is called an order, is not an order. No formal 
order has been drawn up and recorded ; but we will treat it as if a 
formal order has been made as required by the Code. 

The executrix appealed against that order. 

The Attorney-General, at the opening of the appeal, appeared 
and took a preliminary objection. He said that he had received 
no notice of the appeal, and that, therefore, the appeal should not 
be heard without notice to his clients. The Attorney-General 
appeared on behalf of Elizabeth Ferdinandus and five others, 
who appear to have entered a caveat after the order for probate 
had been made. 

The appellant was executrix of the will of the deceased, and she 
petitioned that probate should be granted to her, and bringing the 
will into Court she filed an affidavit under section 525, naming 
no person as respondent to the petition. Thereupra- the Court 

Digitized by VJjOOQTC 



( 247 ) 

under the powers given by section 529, made the order absolute ^^^^' 

in the first instance. After that order had been made these five ^^P^^er26, 

persons filed their caveat under section 535 ; but in my opinion Withers, J. 

they were too late, because the order had already been made, and 

they are therefore not parties to the proceedings, and they were 

rightly not served with notice of the appeal, which is an e;r j>arte 

one. 

In consequence of this filing of a caveat the secretary of the 
District Court declined to issue probate as ordered by the Court. 
Thereupon the executrix took the curious step of moving the 
Court that probate be granted to the executrix named in the will, 
although an order to that effect had already been made. I cannot 
understand why the Court should make an order over again ; but 
there seems to be a rage in the District Court for making motions, 
for, even after the petition had been presented, a motion is made 
by the petitioner that the prayer of the petition may be granted. 
Why it was thought necessary to supplement the petition by a 
motion I cannot understand. We were told that it was the practice 
in the District Court to supplement a petition by a motion in this 
way. If this be so, the sooner this practice is discontinued the 
l)etter. When a petition has been presented it ought to come 
on for hearing in regular course without any motion for that purpose. 
However, on the second motion, the caveators were heard, and the 
Acting District Judge made the order, which is now appealed against. 
I must say that I do not understand the grounds on which that order 
made. 



The procedure laid down by the Code seems to be quite clear. If 
the probate has been wrongly granted it may be recalled under 
section 536. Section 537 points out how an appUcation to recall 
probate is to be made. It is to be made by petition. The caveators 
instecMi of entering a useless caveat, should have applied under 
section 537 to recall the probate. That they can do now, but, in 
my opinion, the order was wrong. The procedure invented by the 
learned Acting District Judge is not in accordance with the Code. 
There is no justification for it. The appeal must therefore be 
allowed. 



WiTHBES, J. — 

I quite concur. If the District Judge had satisfied himself that 
the petitioner had abused the process of his court by the suppression 
of some material fact in the affidavit supporting her petition for 
grant of probate, I think it would have been quite competent to 
him to have discharged the order nisi. ^ t 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 248 ) 

1895. But that is not the reitson given by the learned Difitrict Judge 

September 26. f^^ jjjg decision that the petition and affidavit should be taken 
WiTHBBs, J. off the file. He seems to have thought that the course he decided 
to take was the only way to deal with a state of circumstances 
for which the Code, in his opinion, had failed to provide. In this 
I think he was mistaken, for the Code plainly indicates by what 
time a caveat for the purposes of section 535 must be filed. 

A caveator must come in before the final hearing of the petition 
and the order thereon. 

The caveators intervened too late to be in any sense parties to 
the matter of the petition. If they have a right to ask for the 
revocation of the grant, they must do so in the way provided by 
the Code. 



1895. CORNELIS V. ULUWITIKE. 

SepUrnUrlS. ^ ^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ 

Irregularity in recording evidence — Ordinance No, 22 of 1890, ». 12 — 
Criminal Procedure Code, 8. 472 — Conviction in the aUemative — 
WarrarU issued in the Sit}hale8e language. 

Evidence recorded in a proceeding against A, which disclosed an 
offence on the part of B, who was not present, cannot be made use of 
against B on a subsequent day when arrested and brought up by 
reading over to the witnesses in the presence of B the evid^ioe 
already recorded, and examining them fvulher and allowing B an 
opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses on the whole evidence. 
The proper course is to record their evidence afresh. 

The Penal Code does not provide for a conviction in the alter- 
native, and therefore a conviction for *' dishonestly receiving or 
" retaining stolen property " is irregular. 

Per BoNSER, C.J. — There is no authority in our law for the issue 
of process in a foreign language. The language of the Ceylon Courts 
being the English language, serious doubts might arise as to the 
legality of an arrest upon a warrant issued in such form. 

^P^HE facts of the case are sufficiently stated in the judgment of 
-^ his Lordship the Chief Justice. 

Domhorst, for the appellant. 

18th September, 1895. Bonser, C.J. — 

In this case the appellant, one Robert Uluwitike, was convicted 
of "dishonestly receiving or retaining a gold hairpin worth Rs. 25, 
" the property of L. W. Cornells, knowing the same to be stolen 
" property," and sentenced to undergo six months' rigorous impri- 
sonment There apx>ears to have been^ some irregularity in the 



( 249 ) 

prooeedings in this case. In the first instance, a man called ^^^^• 

Urudihami was charged and brought up by the Vidan^ Arachchi. 

Mr. Moor, who was then Acting Police Magistrate of Galle, took Bonskr,C.J. 

evidence on the charge against Urudihami. On the evidence given 

on this charge it appeared that the appellant was the person from 

whom Urudihami had got the property, and the evidence pointed 

to Urudihami as having been innocently in possession of it. At 

that stage of the proceedings the Police Magistrate issued a warrant 

for the arrest of the appellant. He did not deal with Urudihami's 

case, and the proceedings against him would appear to have dropped, 

for nothing more was done. 



Then Robert, the appellant, was arrested upon that warrant and 
brought up before the Police Courfc of Galle, where Mr. Hellings was 
at the time presiding. The witnesses who had been heard before 
Mr. Moor on the charge against Urudihami were called as witnesses 
for the prosecution on the charge against the appellant. But they 
did not give their evidence afresh, as they ought to have done. The 
course pursued was that the Magistrate read out to the witnesses the 
evidence given by them on the previous charge against Urudihami, 
and then examined them further. It is said that this course was 
justified by section 12 of Ordinance No. 22 of 1890. But in my 
opinion that section has nothing to do with a case like the present 
one. It seems to me that that section refers to a case under section 
472 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which provides that where an 
accused person has absconded, the Court competent to try or commit 
for trial may examine witnesses in his absence and record their 
depositions, and then when the accused is arrested and brought up 
those depositions may be given in evidence, if the witnesses are dead 
or incapable of giving evidence, or their attendance cannot reason- 
ably be secured. It seems to me that the 12th section of Ordinance 
^o. 22 of 1890 went a step further, and provided in such a case that 
the proceedings might be shortened by reading over the depositions 
in the presence of the accused. But before section 12 can apply, it 
appears to be necessary that there must be a person accused, and 
that that accused must be one and the same person. It could never 
have been intended that that section was to apply to a case where 
the evidence was given on the trial of a different person, and there- 
fore what was done in this case was irregular. I observe that the 
witnesses did not even swear that what they said on the previous 
occasion was true. 



Then the question arises, is this irregularity such an 
irregularity as to afford sufficient reason for setting aside tji$ ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 260 ) 

1895. conviction ? Did it in any way prejudice the accused ? As to this» 
Sept ember 18, I fail ^o see that it did prejudice him, and therefore I do not think 
BoN8EB,C.J. that this irregularity is sufficient ground for setting aside the 
proceedings. 

There appears to be a further irregularity in the conviction. 

The appellant is found guilty of dishonestly receiving or retaining 
a gold hairpin. Under our Code it seems that a conviction in this 
form is irregular. Under the Indian Penal Code such a conviction 
is allowed. Section 72 of the Indian Penal Code expressly provides 
for a conviction in the alternative, but by some slip that section was 
not included in our Penal Code, although when our Criminal Proce- 
dure Code was borrowed from Didia the clause which gave effect to 
section 72 of the Penal Code was left standing. I refer to the last 
clause of section 210 of the Criminal Procedure Code. But this is a 
defect which can be amended, and therefore I order that the convic* 
tion be amended by striking out " or retaining." 

Then, on the merits, it was urged that the evidence was insufficient 
to support the conviction of dishonest receipt of stolen property. 
But, if the evidence is to be believed, there was sufficient evidence. 
The conduct of the accused in running away when some difficulty 
arose about its disposal, and the Vidan^ Arachchi was called in, 
points to a consciousness of guilt, and therefore I see no reason to 
interfere with the conviction or sentence. 

I notice that there is put up in the paper-book what purports to be 
a warrant of arrest, in what seems to be the Sinhalese language. 

I do not understand under what authority process is issued in a 
foreign language, and the Solicitor-General who was in Court at the 
argument professed himself imable to explain how this process came 
to be issued. The language of our Courts is the English language, 
and it appears to me that serious doubts might arise as to the legality 
of an arrest ux)on a warrant in such form . 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 251 ) 



JIVARATNAM r. MURUKESU et al, 1^95. 

SepteyyiberlO, 
D, C. Jaffna 25,089. 

Th^sawaiamai — Husband and wife — ^Muthusam — Thediathettum — Land 
bought by husband vnth money inherited by him — Separate property 
of husband. 

According to the ThSsatoalamai of Jaffna, money inherited by a 
husband and converted into land does not form part of the thedia^ 
ihettum. Such lemd should be treated as his separate property, if 
the money can be ear-marked. 

TT was alleged in the plaint that upon the death of one Tamo- 
■^ tharam, his executor, Selvanayagam, sold the land belonging to 
the deoeased to one Suppramanian Chetty, and that the latter 
re-sold it to Selvanayagam in his private capacity ; that the price 
paid for it by Selvanayagam was part of money which he inherited 
from his mother ; that he possessed the land till his death in June, 
1894, and that thereupon his executor sold it to the plaintiff. 
Plaintiff now complained that defendant had imlawf ully ousted him, 
and he prayed for a declaration of title, restoration of possession, 
and damages. 

The defendant admitted the sale of land by Suppramanian Chetty 
to Selvanayagam, but denied that he bought the property out of 
tnuthusam inherited from his mother. 

He pleaded that Selvanayagam bought it out of money acquired 
by him and his first wife Tangamuttu, a daughter of one Appa 
Chetty ; that when Appa Chetty died intestate, his heir leased his 
share to the first and third defendants (the second defendant being 
the wife of the first). The defendants denied having ousted plaintiff 
from the half share to which Selvanayagam was entitled. 

The District Judge framed the following issues : — ^Was this land 
sold on the 15th of June, 1883, to the late Selvanayagam during the 
lifetime of his wife Tangamuttu, or after her death. 

And he refused to accept another issue suggested by plaintiff's 
counsel, viz., whether the land in question was purchased from 
money inherited by Selvanayagam from his mother or with money 
belonging to the joint acquired estate of Selvanayagam and his wife 
Tangamuttu. 

He made order as follows : — ** I refuse to add this issue. There 
" is no provision of the Theaatvalamai known to me, providing that 
" if a person inherit cash or movable property, and afterwards 
** purchase a land with the cash or price of the movable property, 
"such acquired land becomes part of the muthusam, or (^ ^^^\^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 252 ) 

1895. '' inherited estate. I hold that the mtUhttsam is the property in 
epte^r . ,, ^^^ state in which it is inherited, and that the profits, Ac., 
Withers, J. ** realized and re-invested cannot be held to create a new class of 
" muthusam, and so on indefinitely. 

" This land, it is admitted, never formed part of Selvanayagam's 
" parent's estate, but was bought by him during his wife's life. He 
** may, or he may not, have had a right to set-off when dividing the 
** estate of himself and wife against the wife's share a sum of money 
" brought into their joint account as mvihuaam cash. The fact 
'' that he called this mvlhuaam money in the deed of purchase, to 
" which the wife is not a party, will not affect the right of the wife's 
*' heirs to have this land treated as a joint asset. 

'* It strikes at the root of the Thesaivalamai to suppose that a man 
" or woman can after marriage go on trading without community 
** in the proceeds of their fmUhnsam property. The rights in those 
" original properties remain sole rights, but all acquired property 
"derived from them, by re-investment, exchange, accumulation. 
" &c., i)ass into the joint account, subject as already remarked, to 
the original claim for the mvthuaam, as it was when the joint partner- 
** ship as man and wife was undertaken." 

Plaintiff appealed against this order refusing the suggested issue. 

26th August, 1895. Rdmandihan, S.-O., ^.ppeared for appellant 
and cited Mutukistna's ThesawaUimai, pp. 33, 130, 182, 260, 325. 

Sampayo, for respondent. 

Cur, adv, vuU. 



lOth September, 1895. Withers, J. — 

We have to decide an interesting point in the customary law of 
Jaffnapatam, and it is this. Is land which has been acquired by one 
of the spouses during wedlock with money bequeathed under a will 
and received during wedlock to be regarded at the death of that 
spouse as his or her se]>arate and exclusive property devolving on his 
or her heirs at customary law ? The different kinds of property 
when speaking of married persons are well known. What is broi^ht 
into the marriage by the husband is called muthu«im property, what 
is brought in by the wife is called chidanam (5<n-dAanam) translated 
dowry property. 

The one is the husband's separate property, to which the 
sons succeed : the other the wife's, to which the daughters 
succeed. What is acquired {thedapatta) during wedlock is called 
(thediathettum) acquired property. Acquired property is not further 

Digitized by VjOOQTC 



( 253 ) 

defined in the in the Thesawalamai. It is regarded as joint estate l^^^- 
of the spouses, and is divided among the sons and daughters on ^^p fembe rio. 
the death of the surviving parent. Withers, J. 

Chapter IV., section 3, of the above Code declares that a gift of 
land to either spouse is to be regarded as separate property of the 
spouse who has received the gift, though if alienated during the 
marriage no compensation is to be made out of the other spouse's 
estate. Only the proceeds ( ? profits) of the land are to swell the 
thediaiheUum. The same rule is applied to slaves and cattle or 
anything else which may be increased by procreation, with this 
difference, that the progeny remains the property of the spouse 
presented with the original slave or animal. 

Were donated land, slaves, and cattle excluded from the thedia- 
ihettum because of the importance of such kinds of property to the 
fortunate owner of them ? 

But what of a bequest of money converted into land by the donee ? 

Is this within the principle of that rule? 

In Touasaint v. Vesentipulle and others (1856), reported in Mutu- 
kistna, p. 325, the then District Judge held that a bequest of money 
came within the principle of the section just referred to. 

This was (apparently) an action by a creditor of a husband to ' 
recover a debt contracted by the latter during coverture, and he 
sought to levy a sum of money as assets of the tliediathettum, and so 
available for his writ. 

It was contended that this was not a pure bequest of money, but 
payment for services rendered by the wife, who however claimed it 
as separate property by donation. 

The Supreme Court set the judgment aside, being of opinion that 
the creditor appellant was entitled to draw the money for his 
judgment debt. No reason was given in the judgment. 

It may have been that the Supreme Court considered the money 
to be compensation, and therefore money acquired by the wife for 
domestic services rendered by her, and not to be a free unearned gift. 
The distinction is important in view of the opinion of Judge Wood, 
given in 1848, that ** the only property in which both spouses have 
" a material interest and is in common is the property (? rents, 
** incomes, and profits) arising from each of their respective pro- 
** perties " (the muthusam and chidanam), or ** what is acquired by 
** their own exertions during their marriage." This opinion received 
the sanction of Sir Anthony Oliphant, C.J., in VcUliama v, Loopen 
(Mviukistna, p, 260). 

It was held by Judge Price in the case of Sanmogam v. 
Sinnecooly (MtUuIdstna, p. 33) that a parcel of land " bought with 

Digitized by 



Google 



( 254 ) 

1895. «< money hereditary property of the deceased," one Sangarapillai 

Sep tembe r 10. during his marriage with his first wife, did not form part of their 

Browne, J. ihediathettum, but was his separate property devolving according 

to the country law. This was affirmed in appeal by Sir Charles 

Marshall, C.J. 

It does not appear from the report what was meant by " heredi- 
" tary property," whether muAusam, oddly enough translated 
" hereditary property " in Mutukistna, p. 1 (in which case there 
could be no doubt that the land if acquired by capital money would 
be regarded as mtUhasam and separate estate), or money to which 
the husband succeeded as next of kin. If the latter, the decision 
seems to me to be in favour of the Solicitor-General, who cited it. 
If it was acquired during marriage by descent, why did it not fall 
into the ihediathettum ? 

It could be excluded only because it was a free gift and not acquired 
by the executors of either spouse, or the production of the profits, 
or income, or revenue of the separate property of either spouse. 

It really comes to this, that according to the Thisatoalamai as 
interpreted by decisions, the separate property of spouses is that 
which. either party brings to the marriage or acquires during the 
marriage by inheritance or donation made to him or her particularly, 
while common property is restricted to the rents, revenue, and 
income of their separate estate, and what is acquired by the exertions 
of the spouses. 

The Solicitor-General, if I understood him rightly, carried his 
argument to this length ; and though at the time I was not prepared 
to assent to that view of the law, I am inclined to do so now, in view 
of the second case above mentioned. As, however, it was assumed 
for the purposes of argument, and for that purpose only, that 
plaintiff's predecessor in title bought the land in question with his 
mother's legacy, the case must go back for that question of fact, 
inter alia, to be determined, for unless the money can be ear-marked, 
so to speak, the plaintiff's case on that point fails. 

Set aside and send the case back for trial, with the opinion of this 
Court that the land is to be treated as the separate property of the 
purchaser if he piu-chased it with money specially donated to him 
by his mother, but not otherwise. 

Browne, J. — 

I agree. Some previous owner of my copy of Mutukistna*s work 
has corrected the text on page 261 into, ** is the ^rq^ arising from 
" each of their respective properties," which would seem to be more 
in accordance with the sense and principle. ^ - i 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



k 



( 255 ) 

The precedents cited by the Solicitor-General from pages 182 and 1895. 
267 certainly show that investments or transmutation of the Sep tembe r 10. 
character pf the property will not affect the rights which belonged Browne, J. 
to it in its original character, and the decision on page 130 would 
appear to have proceeded upon the consideration that the fund out 
of which the lands were purchased was not ear-marked. 

-♦ 



SOYSA V. ALWIS et al. 

1896. 
D. C, ColambOy M 5. Sept, 6, 10. 

CivU Procedure Code, 8. 642 — Application of mortgagee to have deceased 
mortgagor's estate represented — Estate under Rs. 1,000 — Death of 
mortgagor before Code came into operation. 

Under the proviso of sect on 642 of the Civil Procedure Code, it is 
competent for the District Court, upon an application made in 
respect of a mortgage of less value than Rs. 1,000, to appoint a 
person to represent the decetised mortgagor's estate for the pur- 
poses of the action intended to be raised for the recovery of the 
mortgage debt. 

The proviso stands independently of the testamentary chapters 
of the Code, and appb'es to cases where the deceased had died before 
as well as c^ter the Code came into operation. 

THE executrix of one Jeronis Pieris, to whom one R. D. Thomas 
had mortgaged some lands in order to secure a loan of Rs. 500 
and interest, moved the District Court that the widow of the 
decea^sed mortgagor be appointed to represent his estate so as to 
enable her, the executrix, to sue upon the bond. 

The Acting District Judge (Mr. Templer) disallowed the motion, 
as the mortgagor appeared to have died before the Code came into 
operation. 

On appeal, Bavm appeared for the executrix. 

10th September, 1895. Withers, J.— 

I think the present case is distinguishable from the case cited 
before the learned District Judge and relied on by him, viz., 
Nagappen v. Maimanchy, 9 S, C. C. 197. That case, which con- 
cerned a mortgaged estate worth over Rs. 1,000, decided that the 
mortgagee himself could not be appointed administrator of his 
mortgagor's estate and effects under section 642 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, and confirmed a previous ruling that the adminis- 
tration clauses of the Code apply only when the intestate shall have 
died after the passing of the Code. 

Section 642 relates to two different states of things. If the 
mortgaged property of a person dying intestate amounts to Rs. 1,000 
the mortgagee cannot bring a hypothecary action unless he has^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 256 ) 

1895. procured the appointment of an administrator to the estate and 
Bbowne J ^ff^c^s of the deceased mortgagor under the provisions of chapter 
XXXVIII. of the Code. The administration may be a general or a 
limited one, as under the provisions of section 539. If the mort- 
gaged property is under the value of Rs. 1,000, the mortgagee who 
desires to enforce his hypothec may apply to the Court to appoint 
some person to represent the estate of the deceased for all the 
purposes of the action. 

In the first case the mortgagee is compelled to apply under the 
provisions of chapter XXXVTII., which, on account of the express 
language contained in it, was held not to apply to estates where the 
deceased had died previous to the Code coming into operation. 
See Mvitupillai v. Sdlamma, 9 S. C. C. 179. But in this case the 
procedure is given under the chapter without reference to. the 
testamentary chapters, and may be considered apart by itself. It 
is not apparent that any right is affected by this procedure, and 
there is no indication that it will not apply to cases where the 
deceased had died before the Code came into operation. Indeed, 
this chapter is intended to apply to cases where the mortgagor is 
dead (see section 641). I think we ought to give effect to the new 
procedure, wherever it is possible to do so, for I should have thought 
the object of a Procedure Code — unless otherwise expressed — was 
to deal with past as well as present procedure. 

For these reasons I hold it competent for the Judge, if it appears 
to him necessary or desirable, to appoint a person to represent the 
deceased's mortgagor's estate for the purposes of this action. This 
is a matter for his judicial discretion. Of course he cannot do so 
if there is an executor or administrator already appointed, or if the 
property mortgaged is not less than Rs. 1,000. 



Browne, J. — 

The decision in9 S.C.C.197 was upon an application made under 
the first part of section 642, and is applicable thereto only, and not 
to the proviso thereof under which the present application is made 
for the enforcement of a bond secured by a mortgage of less than 
Rs. 1,000 in value. I am glad there is no obstacle by precedent to 
the new procedure whereby the old proceedings in such a necessity 
against all the heirs may be abrogated by the simpler expedient here 
made, and that we can follow the precedent of the decision ci 
Lawmb, J. (1,422, C. R., Kalutara, S. C, if., UA May, 1S9S), who 
upheld (though not after argument of this point) the right of a Court 
of Requests to appoint a representative to the estate of the 
mortgagors who had died thirteen years previously. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 267 ) 



ARMITAGE et al, v. BROWN. 1895. 

^ ^ _ , . t^ow- 52 and 

D. C, Colombo, 3,819, Feb. 8. 

Innocent misrepresentation — Principal and agent — Ab8e7ice of authority 
to act for principal — Liability of agent for damages. 

If A is induced to contract with B on the footing of an innocent 
misrepresentation, he would have a restitutive remedy against 
B, restoring to him what he had actually lost in consequence of 
entering into such contract. 

K A is under a legal duty to tell the truth to B, he would be liable 
for the consequence of an innocent misrepresentation made by him 
under the belief of which B acted* 

Where A, without being curmed with formal authority, professed 
to act as agent of B, and bade for at a public auction, and agreed to 
buy a house as such agent, and B repudiated the sale, and C, the 
vendor, sued A for damages, — 

Held, per Withers, J., and Browne, A. J. {dissentiente Lawrie, 
A.C.J.), that, in the absence of fraudulent intent or recklessness, 
A was not personally liable in damages ; and that he had not entered 
into a valid contract with C, nor was he under a legal duty to him 
to state the truth. 



TJLAINTIFFS claimed Rs. 2,850 as damages from the 
-** defendant on the basis of the following allegations : that they 
caused to be put up for sale by public auction a house in the Fort 
of Colombo ; that defendant, pretending to have full authority to 
act for the Bank of Madras, and upon his warranty that he was 
authorized by the said bank to be such agent, and to bid for and 
purchase the said house, and do such other acts as may be 
necessary therefor, induced the plaintifPs to accept his bids and 
to conclude the sale with him ; that defendant, professing to act 
as such agent, induced the plaintiffs to accept his signature for and 
on behalf of the said bank to the notarially attested conditions of 
sale, and to enter into the contract therein embodied ; that the 
plaintiffs, having entered into the said contract with the defendant, 
were always ready and willing to fulfil their part of the obligation 
under the said conditions ; that the said bank has repudiated the 
said conditions and contract ; and that defendant was not in fact 
authorized to bid at the sale or to subscribe its name to the 
conditions. 

The defendant pleaded that the plaint was bad in that, inter 
alia, it did not allege that defendant made false representations 
knowing them to be false, or that he knew that he had no authority 
to act for the bank. He denied the several allegations of fact 
made in the plaint, and stated that the bank, having discovered 
after the day of the sale by auction that the description of the 
property contained in the conditions was erroneous, justly refused 

Vol. I. - d|2(54)29 JOgk 



( 258 ) 

1895. to purchase it ; that he was authorized to buy the whole of tiie 
Jan, 31 and gaid house, as the conditions purported to sell, but that what was 

1_ * attempted to be sold was only four-fifths thereof. 

iTKEBs, ^^ ^j^^ ^j^^j .^ appeared that, upon the conclusioD of the sale by 

auction, the following memorandum attested by a notary public 
was signed by the defendant and the auctioneers : — 

At the sale by auction made this day of the property described in the 
annexed particulars (viz.» the conditions of sale), the Bcuik of Madras, by 
R. L. M. Brown, was the highest bidder for, and was declared the pur- 
chaser of, the said property at the price of Rs. 25,050. 

As witness our hand at Colombo this 16th day of November, 1891. 

For the Bank of Madras, R. Lewis M. Bbown. 
FoBBES 4& WAiiKEB, Auctioneers. 

The defendant admitted that he had no notarial deed from the 
baxik authorizing him to bid for the premises. 

On the 17th November the auctioneers called upon the Bank of 
Madras to pay them Rs. 6,563*99 in terms of the conditions of sale 
on account of the price, but the bank replied that it " did not 
" purchase any property at public auction on the 16th November, 
" and therefore cannot send you a cheque as requested." 

Thereupon, in pursuance of the conditions of sale, the house was 
put up for sale again, after notice to the bank, and sold to a third 
party, for Rs. 22,200. 

The damages claimed by the plaintiffs represented the difference 
between the original price, Rs. 25,060, and the price recovered at 
the second sale, Rs. 22,200. 

The Additional District Judge (Mr. Conolly) dismissed plaintiffs' 
case on the ground that they had not discharged the onus of proving 
that defendaitt had no authority from the bank to bid for and 
buy the premises. 

They appealed. 

Domhorstj for appellants. 
DumbleUm, for respondent. 



8th February, 1895. Withebs, J. — 

This is an action to recover damages from the defendant on the^ 
ground that he induced the plaintiffs to contract for the ssde of 
certain premises in Colombo with a local bank by a representation 
that he was the agent of the bank to conclude the said contract, 
when in fact he was not so. 

I imderstand the defendant's answer to be that it is true that he 
was not authorized by the bank to purchase the premises referred 
to, but that he signed the contract in the belief as to a particular 
state of facts into which the plaintiffs had misled him. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 259 ) 

I assume, for the purpose of my judgment, that the plaintiffs 1^95- 
have made out a prima facie case of innocent misrepresentation "^^^^ *• 
of authority, by which they were induced to sign a contract of Withkbs, J. 
purchase and sale, which the defendant's princij^al, for some 
reason or another, refused to ratify. 

Two facts with regard to this action are important to notice. 
In the first place, the action itself is one for damages. In the 
second place, the plaint does not pretend to suggest that the 
defendant's misrepresentation was made either with fraudulent 
intention or recklessly, and without care whether it was true or 
not. It merely says that he had not the authority which by his 
conduct be professed to have. 

In these circumstances, is the defendant personally liable to the 
plaintiffs in damages ? 

Mr. Domhorst argues that he is, and he cites the case which 
seems to me to be exactly in poiut, in support of his argument, 
namely, SmotU v. Ilbery, reported in 10 M. and W ,, p. 1. Baron 
Alderson, delivering the judgment of the Court of Exchequer, 
observed as follows : — " There is a third class in which the 
" Courts have held that, where a party making the contract as agent 
•' boTidfide believes that such authority is vested in him, but has in 
•* fact no such authority, he is still personally liable. In these cases 
" it is true the agent is not actuated by any fraudulent motives ; 
" nor has he made any statement which he knows to be untrue. 
" But stiU his liability depends on the same principles as before. 
" It is a wrong, different only in degree, but not in its essence, from 
" the former case, to state as true what the individual making such 
" statement does not know to be true, even though he does not 
" know it to be false, but believes, without sufficient grounds, that 
" the statement will ultimately turn out to be correct. And if that 
" wrong produces injury to a third person, who is wholly ignorant 
" of the grounds on which such belief of the supposed agent is 
" founded, and who has relied on the correctness of his assertion, 
'* it is eqiially just that he who makes such assertion should be 
" personally liable for its consequences.'* 

I venture to think that that statement of the law is no longer 
accurate in view of the opinions of the House of Lords in the well- 
known case of Derry v. Peek. In Bishop v. Balkis Consold. Company 
{59 L. J., Q. B. 565), where the plaintiff had lost the price of the 
shares which he sought to recover from the company, by reason 
of a merely careless misrepresentation, it was held that no 
action would lie. Lord Justice Lindley delivered the judgment 
of the Court of Appeal in that case, and he made this 
observation : — " The plaintiff was induced, however, by the 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 260 ) 

1895. " * certification ' to part with his money, and he has lost it ; and if 

Ft bruary 8, "an action would lie for a careless misrepresentation, I shoold be 

Browne, '' of opinioD that the plaintiff could recover the money thus lost 

A.J. " from defendant, but no action lies for such a misrepresentatioa ; 

" this was finally decided in Derry v. Peek, which it is not for me 

** to criticise." 

In Law V. Bouverie, which was an action by an intending 
encumbrance against the trustee of a fund for loss sustained by 
his negligent misrepresentation with regard to certain encum- 
brances, the same Lord Justice in his judgment observed " that 
" until the case of Derry v. Peek was decided, it was generally 
" supposed to be settled in equity that liability was incurred by a 
*' person who carelessly, although honestly, made a false represen- 
** tation to another about to deal in a matter of business upon the 
" fact of such representation. This general proposition is, however, 
" quite inconsistent with Derry v. Peek.'' 

There are, I dare say, exceptions to this doctrine. I take it that 
if A is induced to contract with B on the face of an innocent mis- 
representation, he would have some restitutive remedy against 
B, which would restore him what he had actually lost in 
consequence of entering into a contractual relation with B. So, I 
take it a person who is under a legal duty to tell the truth to another 
would have to answer for the consequence of an innocent 
misrepresentation under the belief of which that other acted. 
This defendant, however, entered into no contract with the 
plaintiflFs, and was under no legal duty to them when he signed 
the conditions of sale as the agent of a local bank. 

The conclusion I come to is that the plaint discloses no cause 
of action for damages against the defendant. If I am wrong in 
this view of the law, I certainly think defendant ought to have an 
opportunity given him to make good bis defence. 

Mr. Dumbleton urged that the representation complained of 
related to a matter of law, and was on that ground not actionable. 
That may be so where the representation relates to a pure matter 
of law, but that cannot be said, in my opinion, of the defendaot*s 
representation. For these reasons I would affirm the judgment 
of the Court below with costs. 

Browne, J. — 

I venture to concur entirely in the views expressed by my brother 
Withers. In effect the case of the defendant, in the view taken 
of his position by the rest of the Court, appears to be that contem- 
plated as possible by Lord Herschell in Derry v. Peek; that 
of a man who may be blameworthy, as from having formed his 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 261 ) 

belief carelessly or beexi unreasouably credulous — ^a position in 1896. 
which he would be in nowise liable for an action of deceit — and ^^^^^rua/ry 8. 
that, as my brother has pointed out, it might be open to the plaintiffs Bbowhb, 
to obtain on some ground such relief as was necessary to them ^•'^' 
against the consequences of his act, but that (albeit this is not an 
action of deceit) it is not open to them to obtain the remedy of 
damages for which they here prayed. 

At the same time, and with deference to the opinions expressed 
by the rest of the Court as to the position actually occupied or in 
his pleading assumed by the defendant, I would say I am not 
inclined to dissent from the views held by the learned District 
Judge, but would rather affirm his judgment from his own point 
of view. Granting that the signature of the agent amounted to 
an affirmative, that he had authority to do the particular act, have 
the plaintiffs discharged the onus on them and disproved that he 
had such authority ? They submit as their proofs (1) repudiation 
by the bank, his principals ; (2) his own statement in his answer ; 
and (3) the fact that he held no power of attorney under which he 
could alone act as agent of a corporation, a ground which was 
not at all suggested in the plaint. I concur in the holding that 
the repudiation in the letter by the proctors for the bank, who 
merely wrote that " the bank did not purchase any property at 
" public auction on the 16th instant,'' is not conclusive proof that 
defendant had no authority to make the one bid there, the only 
bid made on their behalf. Behind, and as ground for, such a denial, 
there may have been intended in any possible action a defence of 
such want of amsensv^s ad idem as was argued before us, or 
misrepresentation as pleaded, or other matter apart altogether 
from a denial that defendant acted without their authority in 
what he did do and sign in their name. As to the second proof, 
we know nothing of the facts of any authorization, however 
imperfect. The plaintiffs abstained from an investigation thereof 
by examination of the defendant's principals or their manager in 
Colombo. I conceive it to be possible that the corporation, by 
their authorized manager, seeing an advertisement of intended 
sale of ** all that house No. 5, Baillie street, occupied by S," either 
satisfied themselves by inspection of deeds, &c., as to the subject- 
matter of sale, or else were content from the names of the vendors 
and brokers subscribed to the advertisement to believe what 
would be sold, and so simply sent the defendant to be their mouth- 
piece in bidding at the sale of this single lot without casting on 
him any duty of inspection of deeds or verification of parcels, and 
that they were prepared to acknowledge and ratify all his acts for 
them until, as he has pleaded, they (and not he), subsequent to the 

Digitized by 



Google 



( 262 ) 

1806. sale, discovered material error of description. In any action 
February 8. against them, I would be quite prepared to find them acknowledge 
BaowNB, ^ ^^^ agency and defending themselves upon that misdescription 
A.J. alone. The defendant's plea, which has been read in evidence 

against himself, is not happily framed, and in the want of averment 
of the plaintiffs' responsibility for the advertisement might 
even fail as ground of defence. But in it he has asserted he had 
the authority of his principals to bid for the house advertised, 
and that he bond fide did so ; and if his pleader has gone 
beyond those assertions, and taking into consideration quite 
unnecessarily the subsequent discovery and its relation back to 
his own acts at the sale, has indicated what would be the defence 
of his principals in any contest between the vendors and them, I 
would not wrest the statements made for such purpose into an 
admission of neglect in or carelessness of inquiry by defendant 
himself, which I consider would be necessary to constitute an 
admission that he had done an act which he was liot authorized 
to do. I would regard this defence as one that under the mistake 
averred the authority was given, accepted, and acted upon, and 
that it continued of force until the mistake was discovered, and so 
that the defendant always had authority. And in the absence of 
acknowledgment or proof of special duty of inquiring, Ac., 
imposed on him, I would also regard this defence as possibly 
sustained. 

As to the third proof, that defendant had no power of attwney 
under the seal of the corporation, it may be, as Mr. Dumbleton 
has contended, that this was the sole proof on which plaintiffs at 
the trial relied. The record does not read so to me, seeing that it 
was advanced at the trial only after the learned District Judge 
had, at least, doubted the sufficiency of the other proofs. But if 
it were so, I am not at all clear how far the plaintiffs would be 
entitled to rely thereon when they offer as proof only that defendant 
signed the conditions of sale, and not that their notary or they 
then inquired as to whether defendant was so authorized, or that 
defendant made any representation thereof. It has not been 
proved by the plaintiffs what powers this corporation under any 
charter from which it may derive its existence may or may not 
have, as to the appointment of an agent to bid at a land sale or 
conduct preliminary negotiations for any transaction such as 
this outside the lines of its banking business proper. The matter 
may be open to discussion (Story on Agency ^ eecHon 52). 

In this view, that the plaintiffs have not established that in all 
he did the defendant had not the authority of his principals, the 
conclusion expressed by my brother is the more acpeptable to me. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 263 ) 

liAWBJE, A.C.J. — 1896. 

The plaintifik aver that the defendant, Mr. Brown, assumed to February 8. 
be the agent of the Bank of Madras ; that he pretended to have Lawbie 
full authority to act for the bank ; that he did by his acts assert A.C.J, 
and warrant to the plaintiffs that he was authorized by the bank 
to be such agent to bid, &c. ; but that the defendant was not 
authorized by the bank to bid at the sale, nor to subscribe its 
name to the conditions of sale, &c. 

There is in the plaint no averment of fraud or deceit. The action 
seems to me to be one founded on the doctrine *' that a 
'' person professing to contract as agent for another, impliedly, 
" if not expressly, warrants or promises to the person who enters 
'' into such contract upon the faith of such profession, that the 
" authority which he professes to have does in fact exist." I 
venture to doubt whether the law applicable to such a case has 
been affected .by the judgment of the House of Lords in Derry 
V. Peek, and by the later cases Bishop v, Bcdlds Consol. Company 
and Law v. Bouverie, 

In the leading case, Derry v. Peek, the plaintiff laid his action 
on deceit ; he averred fraud. Here, the cause of action is not fraud, 
but the breach of a warranty ; and in my humble opinion, the 
plaintiffs need not aver nor prove deceit or fraud, and the defendant 
is liable in the damages caused by his representation that he was 
agent, if that representation was not correct. 

As I read the answer, the defendant admits that he had no 
authority from the bank to bid for the house described in the 
conditions of sale ; he had no authority from the bank to igubscribe 
its name on these conditions of sale. 

The plaintiffs thus, in my opinion, made a good prima facie 
case for damages against the defendant. I cannot say that I am 
satisfied that the plaintiffs, either in the plaint or at the trial, 
showed that they had sustained damage beyond the expenses of 
the day of sale, expenses which were useless and which had to 
be incurred anew in consequence of the sale to the plaintiff falling 
through. 

While the plaintiffs made out a primd facie case against the 
defendant, there are in the answer averments which, if proved, 
would exonerate the defendant. He avers, as I understand, that 
he acted as the agent of the bank in this matter, induced by a 
mistake in fact caused partly, if not wholly, by the acts of the 
plaintiffs themselves ; that he had read in the local newspapers a 
description of the extent of the premises which the plaintiff said 
they were about to sell ; that that advertisement did not describe 
the premises correctly : the house which the plaintiffs owned ^^V^'^^^T^ 

igi ize y g 



1895. 
February 8. 

Lawbee, 
A.C.J. 



( 264 ) 

which they described in the conditions of sale was a smaller and 
less valuable house than the advertisement had described. The 
bank had authorized the defendant^ to buy the larger house, it 
had not authorized him to buy the smaller house, and his mistake 
in bidding for the latter was caused by the advertisement for 
which the plaintiffs were responsible. 

The rest of the Court are against this view. I can only say that 
as the trial in the District Court was hasty and incomplete, and as 
the judge who presided is no longer in the Colony, I would have 
liked to have set aside this decree and to have sent the action to 
the District Court for new trial on issues to be carefully framed, 
and I would have left the costs to depend on the final result. 



1895. 
January 20, 



MENIKHAMI GAMARALA et al, v. THE CROWN. 
D, C, Chilaw, 256 B, 

Forest Ordinance^ 1885 — Amending Ordinance No, 1 of 1892, «. 9, sxib- 
section 6 — Appeal from decision of Forest Settlement Officer — 
Procedure as to lodging appeal and time for supplying stamp for 
judgment in appeal — Civil Procedure Code, s, 756—-Ordiruxnce 
No, 3 of 1897. 

Per BuRNSiDE, C.J., and WrcHERS, J. (dissentiente Lawrie, 
J.). — All that is required of a party appellant under section 9 of 
the Ordinance No. 1 of 1892 is to lodge with the forest officer, 
within three weeks of the order appealed from, a duly stamped 
petition of appeal and affidavit to enable him to have his appeal 
dealt with by the Supreme Court. 

It is not necessary for the appellant to deliver, as provided in the 
Ordinance No. 3 of 1890, in the case of appeals from District 
Courts and Courts of Requests, a proper stanxp for the decree or 
order of the Supreme Court. 

But counsel for appellant should, before argument, undertake to 
supply the proper stamps for the judgment in appeal. 

n^HIS was an appeal from a decision of a Forest Settlement 
-*- Officer in favour of the Crown. 

The claimant appealed, without suppljmig a proper stamp for 
the decree of the Supreme Court. 

20th January, 1893. Bdmandthany S.-0,y for the Crown, 
submitted that the appeal was inadmissible without such stamp. 

SenevirataTia, for the appellant^ was heard canira. 



Cm. adv,.vttU. 

Digitized by LjOOQIC 



C.J. 



( 265 ) 

24th January, 1893. Btjbnsidb, C.J.— 1893. 

The decision of points growing out of the Forests Settlements *^^ ^^nf 24. 
Ordinances is not usually an easy task. The Ordinances them- Burnsidb, 
selves are novel in principle and abound in paradoxes, but the 
question for our decision in the present case is, in my opinion, free 
from doubt. It arises upon section 9 of the Forest Ordinance, 
No. 1 of 1892, which, after giving a right of appeal to this Court 
to any person dissatisfied with a decision of a forest officer by 
lodging a petition of appeal with an affidavit, of the nature of the 
right affected with that officer, goes on by sub-section (c) to enact : — 
** Stamp duty shall be charged upon every such petition of appeal and 
** upon every such affidavit, at the rates specified in part II. 
'' of the schedule B to ' The Stamp Ordinance, 1890,' for similar 
** instruments in the District Courts, and upon subsequent proceed- 
** ings at the rates specified in the said schedule for appeals from 
" the District Courts ; and every such appeal shall be dealt with 
** and disposed of in the same manner and subject to the same 
** rules as appeals from District Courts are dealt with and disposed 
" of." It was contended by the Solicitor-General that the provision 
to the Stamp Act which relates to the time when the stamps 
necessary for judgments in appeal shall be supplied, governs appeals 
in these cases. The provision is as follows : — 

" Provided also, that in appeals to the Supreme Court the 
*' appellant shall deliver to the secretary of the District Court or 
" clerk of the Court of Requests, together with his petition of 
** appeal, the proper stamp for the decree or order of the Supreme 
" Court and certificate in appeal which may be required for such 
" appeal." 

Whilst I am of opinion that a judgment in appeal is a ** subse- 
'* quent proceeding " within the sub-section of the Forest Ordinance, 
I am clearly of opinion that the provision just quoted does not 
apply to it. In the first place, by the Forest Ordinance it is clear 
that it is the stamp "rates" only which are made to apply to 
" subsequent proceedings," and the provision to the Stamp Ordi- 
nance does not refer in any way to the " rates " to be paid, but it 
refers especially and only to the " time when " such rates are to 
be paid. Then, again, to hold that the provision applied to 
proceedings like the judgment in this case would be in effect to 
make the Legislature give a right of appeal in one breath and 
take it away in the next, for it would be impossible for an intend- 
ing appellant to comply with the requirements of the provision. 
Which would be the District Court or the Court of Requests, to 
the secretary of which the stamps are to be delivered ? It was 



Digitized by 



Google 



( 266 ) 

1893. suggested that the forest officer, or the r^istrar of this Court, 

Ja nuary 24. would be officers corresponding to the secretary of the lower Court. 

Lawbix, J. But which would really be so ? The very alternative is sufficient 

to dispose of that suggestion, which would in itself be simply 

legislating, and not construe legislation as we are called to do. 

I cannot appreciate the reasoning that because this Court has 
already held with respect to the provision, that it creates a condi- 
tion precedent to the right of appeal in those cases to which the 
Legislature has in unmistakable terms applied it, therefore we 
must also apply it to other cases in which the Legislature has been 
silent with regard to it, and with the effect of defeating a right of 
appeal which has been also unmistakably conceded. 

As. I have said, I think the judgment would be a '' subsequent 
" proceeding," and it should therefore be stamped in the words of 
the Ordinance '' at the rates specified in the schedule for appeals 
**from the District Court," but as the Ordinance has made no 
special provision as to the time when such stamp shall take pla43e 
the general law must apply, and the judgment would strictly and 
properly be stamped at the time when other judgments are reaDy 
stamped. I fully recognize, however, the inconvenience, if no 
greater evil, of leaving a judgment to be stamped after it shall have 
been delivered, without any provision for securing the supply of 
the proper stamp, and although the Legislature has been silent 
on that matter, it has by sub-section (b) of the same section of the 
Ordinance given this Court full power to obviate the inconveni- 
ence by empowering the Court, after the appeal has been forwarded 
to our Court, ** to make such order as the justice of the case may 
* * require. ' ' I am prepared, therefore, to permit this case to be heard 
in appeal, upon the undertaking of counsel that the proper stamps 
for the judgment in appeal shall be supplied ; and in all future 
cases the order will be that no appeal will be received until a similar 
undertaking is given by counsel. 

Lawbie, J. — 

The 9th section (sub-section 6) of the Ordinance No. 1 of 1892 
provides that the rates of stamp duties specified in the schedule 
for appeals from the District Courts shall be charged on pro- 
ceedings subsequent to the petition of appeal for appeals from 
a decision or order of a Forest Settlement Officer, and that such 
appeals shall be dealt with and disposed of in the same manner, 
and subject to the same rules as appeals from District Courts are 
dealt with and disposed of. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 267 ) 

The judgment of this Court in appeal is of necessity a pro- 1803. 
ceeding subsequent to the petition of appeal. The section I have January 24. 
quoted, in my opinion, requires that that judgment shall bear the withbbs J. 
same stamp as it would bear if it were a judgment in appeal from 
a decision of a District Court. The appellants have not up to 
this moment supplied any stamps for the judgment in appeal. 
In my opinion, we must deal with the omission as if this case 
were an appeal from a District Court. If an appellant from a 
District Court judgment omitted to furnish stamps for the judg- 
ment of this Court, we would reject the appeal. I am of opinion 
that no other course is now open to us. I would reject the appeal. 

WiTHEBS, J. — 

To my mind there is little doubt that all that is required of a 
party appellant under the 9th section of Ordinance No. 1 of 1892 
is to lodge with the forest officer within three weeks of the order 
appealed from, a duly stamped petition of Appeal and affidavit 
to entitle him to have his appeal dealt with by this Court as appeals 
from the District Courts are dealt with. 

The provisions of the 756th section of the Civil Procedure Code 
cannot be worked into section 9 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1892, for 
this relates only to what shall occur after the transmission of 
the proceedings to this Court. 

Then, as to the provision of the Stamp Ordinance which antici- 
pates the usual time for stamping instruments by requiring the 
proper stamp for the judgment of this Court to be delivered with 
the petition of appeal to the secretary of the District Court, I 
cannot find the language which incorporates it into the 9th section 
of Ordinance No. 1 of 1892, which, in regard to proceedings like 
this judgment, subsequent to the receipt of the case by our Registrar, 
declares only the rates of duty to be imposed on them, and no more. 

It is left to us, as pointed out by my Lord, to make such order 
in matters incidental to proceedings in appeal under this Ordi- 
nance as the justice of the case may require, and I venture to 
think the order proposed a just application of a very ordinary 
requirement. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 268 ) 

18»3. DONA MARIA v. DON PAULES DE SILVA. 

February 14. 

D, C, CoUmbo, 715. 

Husband and wife — Marriage in community-^-'Death of hiisband — Bight of 
widow to one-half of the property hdd in community — Necessity of 
administering whole estate. 

Per BuBNSiDE, C.J. (Law&ie, J., dissenting). — ^Though by the 
Roman-Dutch Law the surviving wife acquires aright to one-half of 
the property held in community during the marriage, yet 
convenience and the necessity of avoiding multiplicity of suits 
demand that the whole estate of the deceased should, in the first 
instance, vest in the administratrix for disposal among the persons 
legally entitled to specific shares therein. 

^1 ^HE facts of the case are as follows : Eusebias Perera and Dona 
-^ Maria having been married in community in 1866, the former 
took on lease on the 23rd March, 1882, an undivided half share of 
an allotment of land containing plumbago pits from one Tikira, 
who was entitled to that share, while the other half belonged to 
the defendant. The lease was to take effect from the 17th January, 
1885, and was to run for eight years from that date. Eusebias 
Perera died on 16th December, 1884, and his widow. Dona Maria, 
took administration to the whole of the estate on 3rd September, 
1885, and raised the present action praying (1) that she be declared 
entitled to a moiety of the value of the net produce of plumbago 
won and appropriated by the defendant from the pits on the land 
from the 17th January, 1885, to the institution of the plaint (21st 
January, 1891) ; (2) for an account of the plumbago dug out and 
quarried from the said pits, and of all expenditure in respect 
thereof ; and (3) for interest and costs. 

In his answer, the defendant pleaded inter alia that on the 
death of the plaintiff's husband one-half of his leasehold (which 
was an undivided half share) vested in her as his widow, and the 
other half on their children, and that the grant of administration 
to the plaintiff was in respect of the children's half only, 
inasmuch as the plaintiff's half had already vested in her on the 
death of her husband, when the community of property was 
determined ; that plaintiff therefore, as administratrix, could 
only call upon the defendant to account for one-fourth of the net 
proceeds of the plumbago, and not for one-half as in the plaint 
set forth. 

The learned District Judge (Mr. Owen Morgan) overruled the 
defendant's objection in the following judgment : — 

** The question is whether the plaintiff, in taking out admini- 
" tration to her deceased husband's estate, was bound to deal with 
" the whole of the estate or only half. It is clear that on the death 



) clear that on the death . j 

Digitized by Google " ^i 



( 269 ) 

" of plaintiff's husband the community of property ceased, and half 1893. 
" the estate devolved by operation of law on the plaintiff, as the February 14. 
" deceased's widow. But it is to be noted that the whole estate is bttbnsidb 
" liable for the debts contracted during the subsistence of the com- C.J. 

'* munity, and if administration is not taken to the whole estate, it 
" would be impossible to pay and satisfy such debts from the 
** whole estate. 

" The children are entitled, without any distinction, to a share 
*' equal to that of the widow's, and if administration is taken to 
*' only one-half of the estate, all the debts contracted during the 
'* marriage will have to be paid out of the children's share, and 
*' that share will be greatly diminished. 

^' Again, it is difficult to divide the estate and allot one-half to 
" the widow till the value of the whole estate is ascertained. This 
** can only be done after payment of all the debts due by the estate, 
** and the recovery of all moneys and other property from the 
" debtors of the estate. 

** I am of opinion, that though one-half of the estate devolved 
** on the widow on the death of her husband, yet that that half 
" cannot be divided or separated and given to the widow till the 
** whole estate is administered. 

" The objection raised by the defendant is over-ruled with 
" costs." 

The defendant appealed. 

Layardy A.-O., with Wendty for appellant. 
Domhorst, with De Saram, for respondent. 

14th February, 1893. Burnside, C.J.— 

In my opinion the judgment of the learned District Judge of 
Ck)lombo is eminently sound, and should be affirmed. Un- 
doubtedly by the Roman- Dutch Law the surviving wife acquired 
a right to one-half of the property held in community during the 
marriage, but this general proposition is materially qualified by 
the fact that the surviving wife's estate thus acquired is liable in 
all respects to the payments of the debts of the husband, as is the 
husband's half of it ; and also there was this further qualification 
that, in case the property was naturally indivisible, it would be to 
the value only of such property to which the widow's right ex- 
tended. We have already held that the right of the executor to the 
immovable property of the deceased is, for the purpose of 
administration, co-extensive with his right to personal property 
for the payment of debts. The Roman-Dutch Law, as a mere 
matter of procedure, rendered the wife liable to be sued in 
respect of the liability of her share of the intestate estate. Our ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 270 ) 

1893. statute law has engrafted on the Roman-Datch Law the law of 
February li. administration, providing for the appointment of administrators 
Lawbis, J. ^^^ *^® pm^pose of securing a responsible person liable at law for the 
due disposal of intestates' estates, both among creditors and next 
of kin ; and it seems to me that we are only walking abreast with 
the law as it now exists, in holding that the whole estate of the 
deceased should, in the first instance, vest in the administrator for 
disposal among the persons legally entitled to individual shar&s of it. 
It certainly would be a gross anomaly if the administrator, although 
subject to be sued for the deceased's debts, could not realize the 
property liable for them. Looking at the decision primas imprea- 
aioniSy its convenience, the avoidance of multiplicity of suits and 
divided administration, which the English law abhors, I cannot 
doubt that the ruling of the District Judge is sound, and should 
be accepted. 

This very case proves the soundness of the position. The 
widow is always preferred in granting administration, and if the 
contention of the defendant were allowed to prevail, the property 
of her intestate would be subjected to the expense of several suits 
by and against the same individual in different capacities — ^the 
wife as surviving spouse and the wife as administratrix. This 
alone would seem to be a good reason to reject the defendant's 
contention. It is not therefore necessary to refer to the contention 
of the plaintiff that, even if the defendant's objectioa were well 
founded, it would only be matter of misjoinder to be rectified by 
amendment. 

The judgment is afi&rmed with costs in both Courts. 

Lawbib, J. — 

I would sustain the order in the special circumstances of the 
case. 

The plaintiff obtained administration of the intestate estate 
of her deceased husband, Eusebias Perera. I understand that it 
was stated by the widow, in the affidavit of the extent and value of 
the estate, and in the appraisement and in the inventory, that 
the deceased was the sole lessee under a lease which did not 
commence until some months after his death. It is by no means 
certain that this lease in favour of a man and his heirs, executors, 
administrators, and assigns, of which he had no enjoyment or 
possession during his life, fell under the community. His widow 
has not chosen to claim any rights under it, and in the absence of 
any other claim it seems to me that the right of the adminis- 
tratrix of the lessee to administer it is undoubted. I dissent from 
the general proposition that the administrator of a deceased 

Digitized byVjOOQlC 



( 271 ) 

spouse who was married in community (the other spouse surviving) ^^^9- 
has right to administer the whole estate which was in communion, ^^ ^'^^f^ ^^* 
On the death of either spouse the other has right to half of the Lawbie, J. 
property lately the subject of the marriage community. All 
that the heirs or legatees of the deceased have right to is the 
one-half to which the deceased was entitled. The executor of 
one spouse cannot realize the whole property of the purpose of 
paying legacies or for distribution among the heirs of the deceased ; 
and if an executor cannot do so, neither can an administrator. 

In my opinion, it is well-fixed law that the administrator or 
executor can administer and realize only such estate as the deceased 
had testing powers over. Here, however, we have to deal with an 
estate which was not in possession of the spouses at the date 
of the death, an estate which the surviving spouse who has taken 
out administration has been content to treat as the exclusive 
property of her deceased husband. I shall not decide that the 
widow has right to half when she herself does not claim it. I regard 
* her dealing with the interest created by the lease as practically 
a renunciation of any right which she had or might have claimed 
in it, because she has deliberately chosen to treat it as her husband's 
property. 

I see no reason to disturb the order. 

Affirmed, 



DELMEGE el al, v. DELMEGE. 1896. 

D. C, CoUywbo, G 4,988. iTaJIdJ^. 

Civil Procedure Code, 8. 781 — Application for certificate as to ftUfilmerU 3, 1896. 
of requirements of 8. 42 of the Courts Ordinance — Plaint for in- 
junction and damages — Valus of 8vbject-matter in issue. 
Where, in an action rcubed to restrain the defendant from trading 
under a certain name and to recover Rs. 9,000 as damages conse- 
quent upon the use of such name, no value was assigned in the 
plaint to the use of such name, and no issue relating to damages 
-was framed, nor any attempt made to prove damage at the trial, 
and the dismissal of plaintiffs* case was affirmed by the Supreme 
Court — 

Held that, under section 42 of the Courts Ordinance, the value of 
the subject-matter of the suit was to be determined by the state- 
ment in the plaint, whether proved or not, and that a party 
desiring to appeed to Her Majesty in Her Privy Council was entitled 
to the certificate referred to in section 781 of the Civil Procedure 
Code. 

THIS action was raised to restrain the defendant from trading 
under the name and style of Delmege, Reid & Co., and to 
recover Rs. 9,000 as damages. No value was placed on the right 
to use, the name. The District Judge refused the injunction and 
dismissed the plaintiffs' case, as no damages were proved. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BONSSB, 

CJ. 



( 272 ) 

1895. On appeal, this judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court, and 

^'Jilj^ now the plaintiffs, preparatory to an appeal to the Privy Council, 

3, I89d. applied to the Supreme Court for a certificate under section 781 

of the Civil Procedure Code, that as regards amount, value, and 

nature the case fulfilled the requirements of section 42 of the Courts 

Ordinance. 

Layard, A.-Q. (with him Domhorst and Loos), appeared in support 
of the motion, and cited D. C. Colombo, 2,298 {Hadjiar v. Pitchey), 
in which the Privy Council gave leave to appeal, on the footing that 
the value of the subject-matter of the suit was to be determined by 
the statement in the plaint. 

Dumbleton (with him Van Langenherg and De Saram), for 
defendants. Cur, adv. vuU, 



3rd January, 1896. Bonser, C.J. — 

This is an application for a certificate under section 781 of the 
Civil Procedure Code by plaintiffs, whose action has been dis- 
missed by the District Court and by this Court, and who wish to 
have the case heard in review by the Full Court. My brother 
Lawrie, to whom the application was first made, having some 
doubt as to the propriety of granting the certificate, has referred 
it to this Court. The certificate which is asked for is one " either 
** that as regards amount, value, and nature, the case fulfils the 
" requirements of section 42 of the Courts Ordinance, 1889, or that 
" it is otherwise a fit one for appeal to Her Majesty in Council." 
The petitioner does not attempt to make out that the case comes 
within the second alternative, but alleges that it satisfies the 
requirements of section 42 of the Courts Ordinance. These are, 
that the judgment appealed from " shall be given or pronounced 
" for or in respect of a sum or matter at issue above the amount or 
" value of Rs. 6,000, or shall involve directly or indirectly the title to 
" property or to some civil right exceeding the value of Rs, 5,000.'* 
The plaintiffs and defendant were formerly carrying on business 
together in partnership, under partnership articles, which partner- 
ship determined by effluxion of time. The defendant thereupon 
commenced business on his own account under the old partnership 
name. The plaintiffs allege in their plaint that this was a wrongful 
act on his part, and that they have suffered damage thereby to 
the amount of Rs. 9,000, and they claim (1) an injunction to restrain 
the defendant from the use of the old name, and (2) Rs. 9,000 as 
damages. No value was placed upon the right to use the name as 
required by section 40 of the Civil Procedure Code, so that the 
only question for us to decide is whether or not the judgment was 
given or pronounced for or in respect of a sum at issue above the 
amount of Rs. 5,000. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 273 ) 

The hiBtory of the case is shortly this. The plaintiffs applied ^ ^^®^- ^ 

for and obtained an inderim injunction till the tnal. On appeal 

to this Court, the injunction was dissolved. The case then came J^on8br,C.J. 
on for trial in the District Court. At the trial no evidence was 
adduced. The plaintiffs' counsel merely stated that his grounds 
were the same as those argued before the District Court and the 
Supreme Court on the question of the irUenm injunction, and that 
** the Court can decide on our claim." 

The Court did not, as it ought to have done, under our procedure, 
frame any issues (see section 146 of the Civil Procedure Code). 
But I think it may be taken that the issue which the plaintiffs 
submitted to the Court was whether or not the plaint discloEod a 
cause of action, and I think that this was the only issue which, 
speaking strictly, was before the Court at the trial. The question 
of damages was not raised at the trial, nor was any evidence adduced 
in respect of it. Judgmeat was given dismissing the action on the 
ground that the plaint disclosed no cause of action, and this 
judgment was affirmed by this Court in appeal. It is that judgment 
of this Court that the petitioners seek to bring under review. 
Although, strictly speaking, the question of damage was never at 
issue, for no issue respecting it was framed and recorded, yet I 
think that the judgment was one " given in respect of the claim 
** for damages," for plaintiffs are by that judgment altogether shut 
out from recovering any sum by way of damages, and that the 
question of damages was substantially at issue between the parties. 
The only doubt which I felt was whether we were justified in certify- 
ing that the amount at issue was above Rs. 5,000, there being no 
evidence whatever before us as to the amount of damages, or indeed 
that any damages at all have been sustained by the plaintiff. We 
have been referred, however, to a recent case of Hadjiar v. Pitcheyy 
where the Privy Council gave leave to appeal, as of right 
it would seem, and not of grace, although this Court had 
refused such leave. In that case, the action was to recover land 
stated in the claim to be worth Rs. 4,050, and mesne profits at a 
rate which would make up the claim to over Bs. 5,000. I 
have referred to the record, and find that there was no evidence 
before this Court as to the value of the land, or of the mesne profits, 
and, therefore so far as this Court had any judicial knowledge, 
their value might have been nil. This Court refused leave to 
appeal on the ground that, as regards value, they had only the 
speculative estimate of the plaintiff in his plaint. The Privy 
Council gave leave to appeal without assigning any reason, but I 
gather that their Lordships acceded to the argument of the 
appellant's counsel that, for the purpose of giving leave to appeaL ^ j 

Vol. I. 12(54)2flr^^^Sl^ 



( 274 ) 

1896. the value of the subjeot-matter of the suit is to be determizied 
January 3. \yj ^h^ statement in the plaint without more. This seems decisive 
Lawbib» J. of the present application, which accordingly is granted. 

Lawrib, J. — 

On the authority of the aUowance by the Privy Council of the 
appeal in D. C, Colombo, 2,298, I am of opinion that the certi- 
ficate may be granted. 



1895. JANwSEN V. ARNOLIS. 

October IS, 

P. C, CoUmbo, 4,042. 

(ItinertUing Police Magistrate, Western Province.) 

Criminal Procedure Code, sa. 229 and 403 — Ordinance No. 22 of 1S90^ 
repealing Chapter XIX. of Criminal Procedure Code — Right of 
appeal where accused lias pleaded guiU'y — Mode of recording 
admission of offence by accused — Criminal Procedure Code, 
s. 220 — ** Additional Police Court " — status and powers of Magis- 
trates of one Court sitting apart from each other — Ordinancs 
No. 1 of 1889, ss. 55, 56, 57 — Exercise of wise discretion in 
entertaining complaints. 

Since the repeal of section 229 of the Criimnal Procedure Code, 
section 403 has become inapplicable to the procedure provided by 
section 220 of the amending Ordinance No. 22 of 1890, and now 
there is no statutory hsa to an appeal by cui accused person who 
has been convicted in a Police Court summarily upon his own 
admission of guilt. 

The terms of section 220, as regards the mode of recording the 
admission of the accused, must be strictly complied with. It 
is not enough to record that " he pleaded guilty to the charge," 
but the exact words used by him should be set forth. 

Ordinance No. 1 of 1889, sections 55, 56, and 57, does not admit 

of any such Court as " the Additional Police Court of — -," 

as if each of the several Magistrates whom the Governor may 
appoint to a Court constituted a distinct and independent Court. 

The proceedings before each such Magistrate should be intituled 

" In the Police Court of — (naming the division), holdeo 

at — — ., before — • , one of the Magistrates of the said 

Court." 

There is no objection to one Magistrate of a Court entertaining a 
complaint and issuing process to compel the attendance of an 
accused person before a Police Court, and the inquiry or trial being 
undertaken by another Magistrate of the same Court ; nor is it 
objectionable for one Magistrate to admit to bail a person who 
has been dealt with by another Magistrate of the same Courts 
or to perform a purely ministericJ act like the communicating to 
an accused the order of the Supreme Court in appeal, and to give 
effect to such order. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 276 ) 

But TV here one Magistrate has commenced to hear a case, he must 1895. 

continue it to the end, unless it falls within section 89 of the October 18. 
Ordinance No. 1 of 1889. -^~ 

Observations on the exercise of wise discretion in entertaining ' 

plaints. 

^T^HE facts of this case appear fully in the judgment of the 
-■- Chief Justice. 

R$wa, appeared for the accused appellant. 
Layard, A.-O., was he^rd as amictis curim. 

18th October, 1895. Bonsbr, C.J.— 

In this case the charge against a man named Amolis was that, 
being the occupier of a house, he kept the same as a common 
gaming-place, in breach of section 5 of Ordinance No. 17 of 1889. 
The record states that he was brought up and the particulars of 
the offence explained to him, and it is then recorded that " he 
" pleaded guilty to the charge/' and on that plea he was convicted. 
The case comes up before us in revision, for an appeal which was 
lodged was rejected by the Magistrate, apparently because of 
section 403 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which provides that 
'' when an accused person has pleaded guilty and been convicted 
" by a District or Police Court on such a plea, there shall be no 
" appeal." In the Code, as it was passed originally, there was a 
section, which was numbered 229, which provided that, after the 
charge had been read and explained to the accused, he should be 
asked whether he was guilty, or had any defence to make ; and 
it he pleaded guilty the Magistrate was to record the plea, and 
might in his discretion convict him thereon. But that question 
was not a question to be asked at the commencement of the proceed- 
ings. It was a question which was to be asked after the evidence 
had been taken for the prosecution, and the Magistrate was of 
opinion that there was ground for presuming that the accused 
had committed an offence which the Court was competent to try. 
At that stage of the proceedings the Magistrate was to frame 
a formal charge, and it was after that formal charge had been 
read and explained to him that the accused was to be asked 
if he pleaded guilty to the charge, or wished to make any 
defence. In 1890 the Code was amended, and section 229 was 
repealed, together with other sections dealing with summary 
trials, and the chapter relating to summary trials was re-drafted. 
But in the new version the procedure to which I have referred 
as contained in section 229 found no place. Section 220 of the 
amending Ordinance provide8,as did the Code previously, that at 
the commencement of the proceedings in a case summarily 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 276 ) 

1896. triable the acoused is to be asked if he has any cause to 
Oct ober I S. show why he should not be convicted. If he admits that he 
BoNSBB, C. J. has committed the offence of which he is accused, his admission 
must be recorded as nearly as possible in the woids used by him, 
and if he does not show sufficient cause why he should not 
be convicted, the Magistrate is to convict him. Section 403 
is therefore inapplicable to the present procedure, now that the 
plea of guilty has been abolished, and it might just as well have been 
expressly repealed, as it has been impliedly, as far as Police Courts 
are concerned. It would no doubt have been expressly repealed had 
not the matter escaped the attention of the Legislature. The 
result is that now there is no statutory bar to an appeal by an accused 
person who has been convicted in a Police Court summarily on 
his own admission of guUt. 

In this case it is to be observed that the Police Magistrate has 
not followed the direction given in section 220 of the Code. He 
has not recorded, as nearly as possible, the words used by the 
accused. As we have pointed out in several cases recently, that 
procedure is one that must be strictly complied with. The 
Magistrate has placed his own interpretation on what the accuaed 
said. The accused has a right to ask this Court to decide whether 
the interpretation placed by the Magistrate on his statement is a 
correct interpretation, and it is our duty to decide whether the 
Magistrate has correctly interpreted what the accused said. We 
cannot perform that duty unless we have the words as nearly as 
possible used by the accused. We must therefore quash this 
conviction. It is especially necessary, in a case like this, that the 
exact words used by the accused should be recorded. The offence 
of keeping a common gaming-house is a statutory offence, 
which is created by an Ordinance, the details of which are by no 
means easy to be understood, and we ought to be satisfieii^ that 
the nature of this offence was clearly explained to the accused, 
and that he understood what the offence was of which he was 
charged. It is not sufficient to constitute the offence of keeping 
a common gaming-house, that the man should be the occupier or 
owner of the house, and that imlawful gaming should have goiie 
on i>i that house ; there are other elements required to complete 
the offence. So much for the merits of the case. 

There are other circumstances in the case which call for our 
notice. The proceedings are intituled as having taken place in 
** the Additional Police Court of Colombo." Now, so far as we 
can ascertain — and we have had the advantage of the Attorney- 
GeneraFs assistance in the matter — ^there is no such Court aft 
" the Additional Police Court of Colombo." Ordinance No. 1 of 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 277 ) 

1889, section 55, provides that " the Governor may establish in 1®^^* 
" every division of the Island one court to be called the Police OctoherJS. 
" Court, and each court shall be hold en by and before one person, Bonseb, C.J. 
** to be called the Police Magistrate, at such convenient place or 
" places within such division as the Gtovemor may from time to 
" time appoint." Then section 56 provides for the case where the 
work in a division may be too much for one Police Magistrate, 
and it empowers the Governor to appoint more than one Police 
Magistrate to the same Police Court, and section 57 gives them 
power to sit apart, but whether one or a dozen Magistrates are 
appointed they are Magistrates of one and the same Police Court. 
That being so, the proceedings should be intituled " In the Police 

Court of (naming the division), holden at , 

before , one of the Magistrates of the said Court." There 

is nothing in the Ordinance to countenance the idea which appears 
to prevail that each Magistrate forms a distinct and independent 
Court. The position of Magistrates sitting apart in the same 
division is analogous to that of Judges of this Court when they, 
as frequently happens, sit apart. 

In the present case that idea has given rise to hardship to this 
accused, of which he has a right to complain. The offence was 
alleged to have been committed in Colombo. He was tried in Colombo 
before a gentleman who has been appointed as an Additional 
Police Magistrate of Colombo, and was convicted. He appealed 
against that conviction, and this Court quashed the conviction 
and ordered the accused to be discharged. The accused was 
undergoing his sentence in the Colombo jail. Instead of that order 
being carried out by the Magistrate who happened at the time to 
be sitting in the Police Court of Colombo, it was thought 
necessary that the decision of the Court should be communicated 
to the accused and his discharge effected by the Magistrate in person 
-who had convicted him. That Magistrate happened to be holding 
his Court at a place many miles from Colombo, called Henaratgoda. 
The order of this Court seems to have been sent to him there, where- 
upon he ordered the accused to be brought up before him from 
Colombo, and he discharged him at Henaratgoda. 

I understand that, in acting as he did, the Magistrate acted 
in accordance with what he believed to be the law laid 
down by this Court, and we were referred to a decision 
by Mr. Justice Clarence, then acting as Chief Justice, sitting 
alone, in an appeal from a Magistrate's Court, from which it 
ivouid appear that he was of opinion that the Additional 
Police Magistrate had an entirely distinct jurisdiction froig ^h(g ^ GQOQle 



( 278 ) 



1S95. 



permanent Police Magistrate of the division, according to the 
Octf^lS. report m 1 C. L. /?., p, 14. In that case the Magistrate, after 
BoNSBatC.J. commencing the proceedings, transferred them to the Additional 
Police Magistrate. The learned Judge is reported to have said 
that, as far as he understood the position of the two Magistrates, 
it would seem that this was not a case in which the Additional 
Police Magistrate had joint jurisdiction, but rather a case of transfer 
from one Magistrate to another, and he appears to have treated 
it as a case of transfer, which only the Supreme Court could 
order to be made. No doubt, if one Magistrate of a Court has 
commenced to hear a case he must continue it to the end, unless 
it falls within the provisions of section 89 of Ordinance No. 1 
of 1889. This decision, however, has not been followed by all 
the Judges of this Court, for recently in a case before my brother 
Withers, he held that where an information had been laid before 
one Magistrate, it was no objection to the conviction that the trial 
had been held before another Magistrate, and it seems to me that 
that was a sound view of the law. I can see no objection to one 
Magistrate of a Court entertaining a complaint and issuing process 
to compel the attendance of an accused person before a Police 
Court for the purpose of inquiry whether he has committed an offence 
which ought to be tried by a Superior Court, or for the purpose of 
his being summarily tried, as the case may be, and the inquiry 
or trial being undertaken by another Magistrate of the same Court : 
nor can I see any objection to one Magistrate admitting to bail 
a person who has been dealt with by another Magistrate of the same 
Court, or performing such a purely oiinisterial act as communicatiDg 
to an accused person the order of the Court of Appeal, and giving 
effect to that order by discharging him. That is no interfo^enoe 
with the principle that must be maintained, that wh^e one Judge 
or Magistrate has undertaken judicial duties with regard to any 
case, the exercise of those judicial duties must not be int^ered 
with by any other Judge or Magistrate of the same Court. I am 
glad to believe that our decision will facilitate the work of Magis- 
trates by removing what has been felt to be an impediment in 
the ready discharge of their duties. 

There was another matter of which the accused conaplained in 
this case. When he was discharged at Henaratgoda it happened 
by some mysterious chance that a police officer was ready there 
to. re-charge him with the same offence from which he had just 
been discharged. The Magistrate entertained the complaint on 
the spot, and fixed a day, four days later on, for the hearing of the 
case in Colombo, and in the meantime ordered the accused to 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( 279 ) 

find bail. Of course the accused could not be expected to find l^^S- 
bail so far away from home, and the result was that he was sent Oei'^er^lS, 
back to jail. Although the Police Magistrate had jurisdiction to Withkrs, J. 
entertain the complaint, and therefore there was nothing illegal in 
his doing so, yet I think that he did not exercise his discretion 
wisely in entertaining the complaint at Henaratgoda. It was not 
such a complaint as required the immediate exercise of a Magis- 
trate's powers. The complainant might very well have been 
referred to the Police Court held at Colombo. In all these cases 
the Magistrate must exercise his discretion. A murder case, for 
instance, would require immediate action, and a Magistrate would 
rightly use his discretion in entertaining the complaint and issuing 
process thereon, wherever he might happen to be. We do not 
wish to fetter in any way the discretion of Police Magistrates, 
but we call their attention to the fact that such an exercise of their 
discretion as was made in the present case entailed unnecessary 
hardship on the accused. 



WiTHEBS, J. — 

I entirely concur. If in my judgment, to which the Attorney- 
General has referred, I used language calculated to convey the 
opinion that the appointment of an Additional Magistrate to a 
Police Court constitutes a new and separate Court within the 
appointee's exclusive jurisdiction, I can only regret that. Hence- 
forth, however, there can be no mistake. 



THE QUEEN v, ANISU LEBBE et al 1896. 

Odobtr J]. 
D. C, Baiticaloa (Criminal), 2,066. 

Criminal procedure — Queationa and answers under a. 16 of Ordinance 
No. 1 oj 1888— Criminal Procedure Code, a. 473. 

Questions put to an accused by a Police Magistrate at a non- 
summary inquiry, and answers elicited fronx him under section 16 
of Ordinance No. 1 of 1888, cannot, without proper proof, be 
read in evidence at the trial. If it is sought to put such questions 
and answers in evidence, they must be proved by some person 
who was present at the inquiry and hecvd them. 

The irregular receiption of such questions and answers in evidence 
is fatal to a conviction, it being impossible to say what effect this 
improperly recorded evidence may have had on the Judge's mind. ^ ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 280 ) 

1806. , Tho object of the provision in section 16 of Ordinance No. 1 

October 11. oi 1888 is to call the attention of the accused to the various points 

-— — which have been proved against him, so that he niay liave an 

BoNSEB.CJ. opportunity of explaining theiti, and that they may not remain 

unexplained in consequence of forgetfulneas on the part of the 

CK^cused, or ignorance of their bearing and effect. 

nnHE facts of the case sufficiently appear in the judgment. 

Pereira, for accused, appellant. At the ctese of the case for the 
prosecution, the statement of the accused in the Police Court, and 
certain questions and answers recorded by the Police Magistrate 
under section 16 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1888, were received in 
evidence. The reception in this way of the questions and answws 
was irregular. There is no provision in our Criminal Procedure 
authorizing it. Under section 15 of the Ordinance the Police 
Magistrate may record certain statements and confessions by the 
accused, and in that very section there is provision that such 
statements and confessions purporting to have been duly recorded 
and signed shall be admissible in evidence without further proof ; 
but section 16, which deals with questions and answers, has no 
provision as to their admissibility in evidence at the trial without 
further proof. The reception of these questions and answers in 
this case prejudiced the accused. The questions embody some 
incriminating statements said to have been made by the accused 
at some time before the Police Magistrate, but those statements 
themselves had not been put in evidence at the trial. That being 
so, the accused was under no liability to explain them at the trial, 
and questions regarding them could not be put, the object of the 
provision in section 16 of the Ordinance being to enable the accused 
to explain any circumstances appearing in the evidence against 
him. 

Dias, C. C, contra. 



nth October, 1895. Bonsbr, C.J.— 

In this case four men were tried on a charge of robbing a temple, 
and were convicted. Certain questions put to the first and second 
accused by the Police Magistrate in the preliminary inquiry under 
section 16 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1888, and the answers thereto, 
were put in evidence by the prosecution, by simply producing, the 
record which purported to be signed and certified by the Magistrate 
in the manner provided by section 136 of the Criminal Procedure 
Code. No one was called to prove that these questions were 
put and these statements were made, and it was assumed 
that they were admissible in evidence by virtue of section 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 281 ) 

473 of the Criminal Procedure Code, as explained and amended by 18WJ. 

section 15 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1888. The Ordinance No. 1 of ^c*^^^- 

1888 first introduced the procedure of questioning the prisoner Bokbbb.C.J. 

with a view to enabling him to answer points in the evidence for 

the prosecution which told against him. It is a very useful provision 

for an innocent man. A man may forget the various points which 

have been proved against him. The object is that the Magistrate 

or Judge, as the case may be, should call his attention to the points 

80 that he may have an opportunity of explaining them, and may 

not omit to explain them through forgetfulness of what has been 

stated, or from ignorance of their bearing and influence. 



Section 16 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1888 provides that every question 
and answer is to be recorded, signed, and certified in the same 
manner as the examination referred to in sections 368, 369, and 
370 — nothing more. Now, section 473 of the Code had provided 
that (1) statements or confessions of an accused taken and recorded, 
as provided by sections 136 and 368, that is, statements and confes- 
sions made out of Court ; (2) that statements or confessions made 
before the Police Court as provided for by sections 171 and 368 ; 
(3) that the statement or statement and examination of an accused 
under section 352 of the Code ; and (4) that the deposition of a 
witness taken and recorded under the provisions of the Code — 
might, under certain circumstances, be given in evidence in any 
subsequent judicial proceeding or in any later stage of the same 
judicial proceeding. It would appear that the intention was to 
provide that they might be given in evidence without further proof, 
but that was not so provided. That omission was rectified by 
section 15 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1888, which provides that all 
statements and confessions which purport to have been duly recorded 
and signed in manner provided by section 136, were to be admissible 
in evidence without any further proof. But neither section 473 
of the Criminal Procedure Code, nor section 15 of Ordinance No. 1 
of 1888, makes any provision as regards these questions under 
section 16 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1888, or as regards the answers 
to these questions. Therefore, if they are to be put in evidence, 
they must be put in evidence under the general law. They must 
be proved by some person who was present and heard them. 
That being so, these questions and answers were wrongly received 
in evidence by the District Judge. The accused are entitled to 
insist on the formalities of the law being strictly complied with, 
and that nothing should be put in evidence against them except 
it be l^ally proved. It is impossible for us to say what effect this 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 282 ) 

1896. improperly recorded evidence may have had on the District Judge's 

Oe iober 11. mind. We cannot eliminate it and say that there was sufficient 

fk>NS]BB. C..T. proof without it, and therefore the only course open to us is to 

quash the conviction, and order the case to be remitted to the 

District Court for trial with assessors. 

There is another point which arose upon this appeal. It appears 
that one of the accused had made a statement at an early 
stage of the preliminary inquiry in which he incriminated himself. 
The Police Magistrate, when examining him under section 16 of 
Ordinance No. 1 of 1888, very properly brought this previous 
statement to the attention of the accused and asked him if he had 
any explanation to offer as to that statement, but he said that he 
was not in his proper senses at the time, and that it might have been 
a slip of the tongue. At the trial before the District Judge that 
question embodying the statement of the accused was put in 
evidence, but there was no independent evidence that that statement 
was ever made. I think that that was not fair to the accused. 
Before that question was put in evidence, the statement of the 
accused should have been proved against him, which might v^^ 
easily have been done, as it apparently had been recorded in the 
proper way. 



18»«. HOLMES V, ALIA MARIKAR. 

Jamtary 17 
""'^ D. C, Colofnbo, C 5,507. 

Action for apeeific performcuice of contract, or damages for breach therecf 
— intention of parties — form of decree. 

Where plaintiff prayed for specific performance of a contract 
set forth in a deed which had been assigned to him, or in the alter- 
native for damages, and it appeared to be the intention of the 
peurties that the defendant should be ready to hand the document 
of transfer to the plaintiff's assignor, and the plaintiffs »«Bigr^ *y 
should be ready to hand over the price stipulated, — 

Held, that plaintiff was entitled to a decree for specific perfarxn- 
ance, and if it be found, for any valid reason, impossible to execute 
the conveyance ordered, the Court below should decree th» 
defendant to pay to the plaintiff the damages claimed. 

T^HE plaintiff in this case sued the defendant upon a deed of 
-^ assignment, whereby one Wapuchi Maricar transferred and 
set over unto him all sums payable upon, and all right, title, and 
interest in, a certain deed made by the defendant in favour of the 
said Wapuchi Maricar. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 283 ) 

By that deed, dated 6th June, 1893, the defendant agreed to sell ^^^^• 
and convey to Wapuchi Maricar, within two months of the date of '^^^^^^Tor^^ 

its execution, a portion of a land belonging to him for the price of 

Rs. 150, and it was further agreed that in the event of the defendant 
refusing or neglecting to make the conveyance in question, he 
should refund to Wapuchi Maricar the sum of Bs. 50 paid to him 
in advance, and pay an additional- sum of Rs. 50 as damages. 

The plaint alleged that, on or about the 20th of June, 1893, 
Wapuchi Maricar tendered to the defendant, within the period of 
two months aforesaid, the price of Rs. 150, and requested him to 
execute and deliver to him a proper conveyance of the said land, 
but that the defendant refused and neglected to do so ; that 
thereupon Wapuchi Maricar, by his proctor, requested him to 
deliver the title deeds of the said premises in order to enable his 
proctor to prepare the necessary deed of transfer in his favour for 
execution by defendant, but that the defendant failed to do so. 

It was further alleged in the plaint that defendant had notice 
of Wapuchi Maricar's assignment of the deed of agreement to 
plaintiff ; that on or about the 30th of October, 1893, the plaintiff 
tendered to the defendant Rs. 150, the price of the land, and 
requested ^him to execute and deliver to him a conveyance of the 
said land, or to deliver to his notary, Mr. Perera, the title deeds of 
the said premises for the purpose of preparing a deed of conveyance 
for execution by the defendant ; and that the defendant refused 
and neglected to do so. 

The plaintiff prayed that the defendant be ordered to convey to 
the plaintiff the said land upon a proper deed of conveyance, 
receiving from the plaintiff the said sum of Rs. 150 ; and in the 
alternative that defendant be decreed to pay to the plaintiff the 
sum of Rs. 50 paid by Wapuchi Maricar to him, and a further sum 
of Rs. 50 as damages. 

The defendant pleaded, inter alia, that the plaintiff could not 
claim specific performance of the agreement set forth in the deed 
of agreement between Wapuchi Maricar and the defendant. 

The question of law thus raised was discussed on the trial day. 
The District Judge ruled in favour of the plaintiff and ordered 
the case to be listed for trial on the merits. On a subsequent day 
he dismissed plaintiff's action, on the ground that he was not 
satisfied with the evidence laid before him of the tender of the 
price to the defendant. 

Plaintiff appealed. 

Domhorat and Sampayo appeared for appellant, and Baiua for 
respondent, on the 17th January, 1896. 

Cur. adv. wit. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 284 ) 

1896. 2l8t January, 1896. Withees, J.— 
JcMuary 21, 

WiTHEBs, J. ^^^ ^ ^^ action to compel specific performance of an 
agreement to sell a certain piece of land, more particularly deaoribed 
in the schedule at the foot of the plaint, or in the alternative 
for damages. The parties to the agreement containing the 
promise to sell this land were one Wapuchi Marikar and the 
defendant. The agreement bears date the 6th of June, 1893. 
By that agreement the defendant, in consideration, of the sum of 
Rs. 50 paid in advance, and admittedly received, covenanted with 
the said Marikar, the plaintiff's assignor, that within two months 
from the date of the agreement he would sell, convey, and transfer 
to the said Marikar the piece of land in question on a valid and 
marketable notarial document for the sum of Rs. 150. The said 
Marikar for his part convenanted with the defendant, that within the 
said period of time he would purchase this piece of land for the sum 
of Rs. 150 upon a valid and marketable notarial document. It 
was further agreed between the parties that, in the event of the 
defendant refusing or neglecting to sell and transfer this piece of 
land on a valid and marketable notarial document within the time 
given, for the said sum of Rs. 150, he would refund to the said 
Marikar the Rs. 50 paid and received in advance, together with 
an additional sum of Rs. 50 by way of damages ; and in the event 
of the said Marikar refusing or neglecting to purchase the said land 
for the sum of Rs. 150, he was to forfeit to the defendant the sum 
of Rs. 50 paid in advance. Lastly, it was agreed that the said 
Marikar should bear the expense of preparing the conveyance. 

On the 12th October, 1893, the said Marikar assigned to the 
plaintiff all his right and interest in the said agreement. 

The intention of the parties to be gathered from their act was, 
I think, that within the time stipulated, if either required it of the 
other, the defendant should be ready to hand the document of 
transfer to the plaintiff's assignor, and the plaintiff's assignor 
should be ready to hand over the price of Rs. 150. In short, the 
fulfilment of the respective promises was to be simultaneous. 
Not that the obligations were conditional. 

As to the payment of the expense of preparing the document, 1 
think the utmost which defendant could do would be to detain the 
document as a lien, he having of course the right to recover the 
amount as money paid at the other party's request. 

Before going into the merits of the case it is necessary to determine 
the point of law raised in the Court below and pressed upon 
us in appeal by Mr. Bawa, and that is, whether the doctrine of 
specific performance is known to our law ; not that this point. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 286 ) 

even if determined in defendant's favour, would conclude the 1896. 

case, for the plaintiff claimed alternative relief : specific per- '^«»»wary 21. 

formance in the first place, and if that relief was not open to him, Withebs, J. 
damages for the alleged breach by defendant of his agreement. 

The District Judge, as regards the merits of the case, has found 
against the plaintiff on both grounds of relief, and has dismissed 
his action altogether. 

To this judgment I shall revert after dealing with the question 
of law. 

If this was a case of first impression, I should pay more r^ard 
to the passages in the books relied on by Mr. Bawa, but really I 
think it is too late to call in question the law as it has been adminis- 
tered in our Courts. 

The right specifically to compel a person to give something 
which he has promised to give, or to do something which he has 
promised to do, has been frequently recognized and given effect 
to in our Courts. If the thing cannot be given or done, then its 
equivalent, id quod creditoris interest prssstatianem fieri, is exacted. 
The present is a common case in our Courts. It has been before 
the Supreme Court since 1837. Take the cases reported in Morgan 
and Beling, p. 145 {1837) ; 43J55, Ramandihan'a Reports, p. 162 
(1851) ; Grenier, D. (7., p. 39 (1873). No doubt the point on those 
cases was not taken, but had there been any doubt about the law 
it surely would have been taken ; but the case cited by Mr. Domhorst 
shows that in later times the right has been distinctly recognized 
of compelling the specific performance of a covenant to sell a piece 
of \&nd—e.g., S, (7. M., 19th November, 1886, D. C, Negombo, 14,007 

Let me add the authority of Van der Linden and Grotius. As 
to Van der Linden, see Juta's translation, 2nd edition, p. 107, 
sections 6 and 7, chapter XIV. : " If the obligation consists in 
'" doing something, the creditor can compel the defendant to 
*' perform the act or to pay damages and interest." As for Orotius, 
see Herbert's translation, p. 300, chapter XLI. 

Further, our Civil Procedure Code, section 331 et seq., takes 
this law for granted. 

So much for the question of law. 

Mr. Bawa, however, urged that plaintiff's assignor was bound 
to tender to the defendant within the stipulated time the price 
of Rs: 150 before he could exact the document of transfer ; that 
this was a condition precedent to his right to demand, and defend- 
ant's obligation to execute a transfer. In any event, he argued 
that plaintiff was precluded from calling for the transfer, inasmuch 
as he had not brought the Rs. 160 into Court. In the view I|z|i^«CjOOQle 



( 286 ) 

1896. taken of the agreement which the parties entered into, I ami 
Ja nuary 21. opinion that the plaintiff's assignor was not bound to tender this 
WiTHBBs, J. sum of money, or even bound to bring it into Court. The plaintiff 
is no doubt bound to hand the money to the defendant as soon as 
the defendant has executed the document of transfer. 

The question remainmg for decision is, has the plaintiff shown 
himself entitled to demand specific performance or damages ? 
The District Judge has dismissed the action because, in his opinion, 
the plaintiff failed to establish a legal tender of the Bs. 150 within 
the stipulated time. I am not disposed to say that ihat finding of 
fact is wrong, but, as I have said before, the plaintiff was not 
required to tender the price as a condition precedent. I think aD 
that the plaintiff was bound to establish was that he required the 
defendant to execute the promised transfer, and that he was ready 
and able, on that being done, to pay the Rs. 150 to the defendant. 
So much I think he has established, and in my opinion he is entitled 
to relief. 

To which form of relief then is he entitled ? It seems to me he 
is entitled, in the first instance, to an order directing the defendant 
to execute a transfer. He will not have the conveyance delivered 
to him till he has paid into Court Rs. 150 for the defendant's benefit 
and secured the payment of the expenses, if any, agreed or found 
to be due for the preparation of the transfer. 

Before framing the decree, I would like to say one word about 
an encumbrance which was mentioned to us as affecting the premises. 
The argument on this part of the case left me under the impression 
that the nature and amount of the mortgage over the premises 
was known to the plaintiff to exist when he entered into the agree- 
ment to buy the land, and that what he engaged to pay for the 
land was the price of it with that particular encumbrance subsisting. 

I set aside the judgment, and order the defendant to execute a 
conveyance of the land in favour of the plaintiff, and to produce 
it to the Court on a day to be fixed by the District Judge. If the 
defendant refuse to obey the order, the Court below will deal with 
the case in the manner required by the 331st and subsequent 
sections of the Civil Procedure Code. 

If a draft conveyance, whether settled by the parties « the 
Court, is eventually prepared, the Court will require the plaintiff 
to pay into Court the sum of Rs. 150, and pay or secure the payment 
of the amount (if any) found to be due for the expense of preparing 
the draft. 

That done, the conveyance will be delivered to the plaintiff 
and the money to the defendant. . ^ . 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 287 ) 

If it is found impossible for any valid reason to execute the ^*^^" 
conveyance, the Court will decree the defendant to pay the plaintiff *****^ *^- 
a sum of Bs. 100. Lawbib, J. 

The appellant should have his costs in both Courts. 

Lawbib, J. — 

I agree. Our Courts in Ceylon are Courts of Equity, and I do 
not doubt that they have power to interfere and decree a specific 
performance of agreement. For myself, I may say that for many 
years I have regarded the chapter on specific performance in 
Story's Equity Jurisprudence as applicable and as of authority 
in Ceylon. 

This contract was not performed within the time originally 
fixed. For that both parties are (I think) to blame ; but the 
defendant is more to be blamed than the plaintiff's assignor, because 
(as I read the contract) it lay on the defendant (who had received 
an instalment of the price) to prepare and to offer a conveyance. 
It was not until that was done that the plaintiff's assignor was bound 
to pay the money. Within the time fixed it was the assignor's 
duty (if he wished to purchase) to give the defendant notice that 
he had the money ready, and desired the conveyance to be prepared 
and signed, but he was not, I think, bound to tender the money 
absolutely and unconditionally. The defendant has not shown that 
subsequent events have made it impossible for him to perform his 
contract, and I therefore agree in the judgment of my brother 
Withers. 



The decree entered was as follows : — 

" It is ordered and decreed that the decree made in this action 
by the District Court of Colombo, and dated the 17th October, 
1894, be and the same is hereby set aside, and in lieu thereof it is 
ordered and decreed that the defendant do execute a conveyance 
of the land in question in favour of the plaintiff, and produce 
it in Court on a day to be fixed by the District Judge. If the 
defendant refuse to obey this order, then the said Court will deal 
with the case pursuant to section 331 and subsequent sections of 
the CiviL Procedure Code, but if a draft conveyance, whether 
settled by the parties or by the Court, is eventually prepared, 
then it is ordered that the said Court do require the plaintiff to 
pay into Court the sum of Rs. 150, and further pay or secure the 
payment of costs (if any) incurred in the preparation of the draft 
conveyance. On these conditions being fulfilled, it is ordered that 
the said Court do deliver the conveyance to the plaintiff and the 

Google 



money to the defendant. 

Digitized by 



Janttary 2L 



( 288 ) 

" And it is further ordered, that if it be found, for any valid 
reason, impossible to execute the said conveyance, the said Court 
do then decree the defendant to pay to the plaintiff the sum 
of Rs. 100. 

'' And it is also further ordered and decreed that the defendant 
do pay to the plaintiff his taxed costs of this action, both in the 
said District Court and in this Court." 



1896. 

Fehruairy 8 

and 14. 



SIMAN APPU V. CHRISTIAN APPU. 

D. C, Cohmbo, 7,980. 

Ordinance No, 22 of 187U s. 3 — " Uninterrupted and undisturbed 
possession,'" 

Withers, J. — •'* Possession " of a land must be continuous, 
peaceful, and for a certain period. 

It is "interrupted*' if the continuity of possession is broken 
either by the disputant legitimately putting the posse^or out of 
the land and keeping him out of it for a certain time, if the possessor 
is occupying it ; or by occupying it himself for a certain time and 
using it for his own advantage, if the party preventing is not in 
occupation. 

And possession is '* disturbed'' either by an action intended to 
remove the possessor from the land, or by acts which prevent the 
possessor from enjoying the free and full use of the land of which 
he is in the course of acquiring the dominion, and which convert 
his continuous user into a disconnected and divided user. 

Lawbie, A.C.J. — If the actual physicckl possession has never 
been interrupted, it matters not that the possessor has been 
troubled by law-suits or by claims in execution or by violence. 
If he has succeeded in holding possession, such attempts to oust 
liim only make it the more certain that he held adversely to those 
who disputed with him. 

PLAINTIFF alleged that one Don Daniel, being the original 
owner of the land in dispute, mortgaged it with the plaintiff 
and one Fernando as security for due payment of a certain 
sum of money ; that the plaintiff and his co-creditor instituted 
an action against Don Daniel for the recovery of the 8ai4 sum of 
money, and on judgment being obtained caused the Fiscal to aeiie 
the property under mortgage ; that at the sale the plaintiff and his 
co-creditor purchased the same and obtained a FiscaFs transfer : 
that subsequently the plaintiff and his co-owner sold the said land 
to one Jusey Silva and Susey Pulle, who were put in possession 
by them, and who mortgaged the same property to the plaintiff as 
security for the x>aynient of the purchase monew-s that .the said 

Digitized byVjOOQlC 



( 289 ) 

Jusey Silva and Susey Pulle having failed to pay plaintiff his 1^®*- 
moiety of the said purchase money, the plaintiff sued them for the ^^J^^ * 

recovery of the same, and having obtained judgment issued writ 

and seized the property, whereupon the present defendant 
claimed the same before the Fiscal who, in terms of section 241 of 
the Civil Procedure Code, reported the claim to the District Court, 
which after inquiry directed the release of the said land ; and the 
plaintiff prayed (1) that his execution-debtors, Jusey SUva and 
Susey Pulle, be declared to be the owners of the said property at 
the date of the seizure thereof under the said writ, and the same 
liable to be sold in execution ; (2) that the defendant's claim to the 
said property be declared groundless, and be set aside ; and (3) 
that the defendant be condemned to pay the plaintiff the sum of 
Rs. 200 as damages. 

The defendant by his answer denied all the above allegations, 
save that he claimed the land and that his claim was upheld by 
the District Court. He further pleaded that this land originally 
belonged to the Crown, and that the Crown, in consideration of the 
long possession of the same by the defendant, granted to him a 
certificate under the 7th clause of the Ordinance No. 12 of 1840 
declaring that the Crown had no title thereto. He further claimed 
the benefit of the 3rd section of the Ordinance No. 22 of 1871, 
allying that he was in the undisturbed and uninterrupted pos- 
session of the said land for ten years and upwards previous to the 
institution of the present action, by a title adverse to and independ- 
ent of the said Jusey Silva and Susey Pulle and their predecessors 
in title. 

The District Judge heard evidence on both sides, and decided 
the case in favour of the plaintiff, holding that the two District 
Court cases bearing Nos. 41,552 and 69,316, relied on by the 
plaintiff's counsel, were res jvdiccUa, and estopped the defendant 
from denying the right of the plaintiff's execution-debtors, who 
derived their title from one Don Christian and Don Daniel ; that 
Don Christian had sued the defendant in case 41,552 and got judg- 
ment for this land as far back as 1865, and that Don Daniel 
had also sued defendant in 1876 for this land, when the defendant 
admitted Don Daniel's right to 11 acres out of the 17 acres he 
claimed ; that the 11 acres decreed to Don Daniel in 1877 were 
the indentical 11 acres now in dispute; that the judgments in 
both those cases were res judicata as between defendant and 
plaintiff, whose title ultimately rested on Don Christian and Don 
Daniel ; that defendant had never enjoyed quiet possession for ten 
years ; that eight years before the trial there was a riot on the land, 
when a house was burnt down and defendant was tried fc^r^OO^lS 
Vol. I. 12(54)29 



( 290 ) 

iS95. shooting 8ome people ; and that though the defendant had all along 
February 8 resisted, and successfully resisted, dispossession, yet his possession 
** ' was anything but undisturbed and uninterrupted. 

^^ T'"' In these circumstances, the District Judge gave judgment for 
plaintiff. 

The defendant appealed, and the case was heard in appeal on 
the 8th February, 1895. 

DarnhoTst and Morgan^ for appellants. 

Drieberg and Seneviratnay for respondents. 

Our. adv, vuU, 

14th February, 1895. Bro>\tje, A.J. — 

Plaintiff did not at all base his claim in his plaint upon the 
previous decisions of the lower court in the suits 41,552 and 69,316 
respectively. Those decisions were of the years 1868 and 1877, 
and the evidence in the case is that the defendant was not removed 
from his possession by legal process as the result of either of them. 
Even had he been, there was ample time thereafter before this 
action was instituted in December, 1891, for the defendant to 
have acquired a fresh title by prescription. I could not therefore 
affirm the decision for the reason of res judicata given by the learned 
District Judge. 

Then there is no clear proof here that any action thereafter was 
instituted against defendant in regard to this land, the effect of 
which would have been that the litis contestatio or vocatio in jus 
would have effected a constructive or civil interruption as held 
by this Court in 12,911, D. C, Kurunegala (8. C. Min., 19ih July, 
1864) ; 9,601, D. C, Jaffna (Rdmanathan, 1862, p. 189) ; 37,705, 
D. C, Galle (ibidy 1877, p. 133). As to this, see the later judgment 
of this Court (2 C. L. B. 103), that with the decision of the suit 
the interruption ceases and is effaced. 

As to the other disturbance, which is the entry of the plaintiff 
and his plucking fruits in 1855, though on being resisted he left 
the land, it was held a disturbance of defendant's naked possession 
for over ten years (19,802, D. C, Matara, Legal Miscd, 1864, p. 56). . 
I find no proof here of interruption or disturbance at any date 
within ten years of action instituted proved to have been made by 
plaintiff or his predecessor in title of the defendant. I do not 
know who is the Peris Sinho by whom he mentions an attempt 
was made to distiurb him *' five or eight years ago," and as to 
what Susey Pulle did when he " tried to oust" defendant and the 
latter shot a man in '' regular riot." No particulars are given. 
Ji may be that not a man ever set foot on the land itself, nor thaX 
the defendant was a loser of a nut thereby^g.^.^^^ by GoOQle 



( 291 ) 

I accept entirely the verdict of the learned District Judge that 1S96. 

defendant hcu9 always resisted all attempts to oust him, and I hold February s 

him entitled to a decree in his favour, so long as it has not been ^ * 

proved and held that his possession was interrupted or disturbed. Withers, J. 

Wtthebs, J. — 

I am also of opinion that judgment should have gone for the 
defendant. 

I am not aware of any decision of our Courts which explains the 
sense of the words " uninterrupted and undisturbed possession " 
used in our Prescription Ordinances. Interruption or disturbance 
might occur in different ways, according as the land or other 
immovable property was the subject of a title alleged to be 
acquired under these Ordinances. 

Possession of a land must be for a certain length of time, must 
be continuous, and must be peaceful. 

Possession is interrupted if the continuity of possession is broken 
by the disputant legitimately putting the possessor out of the land 
and keeping him out of it for a certain time, if the possessor is 
occupying it ; or by occupying it himself for a certain time and 
using it for his own advantage, if the party prescribing is not in 
occupation. 

Possession is disturbed either by an action intended to remove 
the possessor from the land or by acts which prevent the possessor 
from enjoying the free and full use of the land of which he is in the 
course of acquiring the dominion, and which convert his continuous 
into a disconnected and divided user. 

Such, roughly speaking, are the considerations which I should 
be disposed to look to in deciding the question whether there has 
been such a disturbance or interruption of possession of a land 
as would defeat a claim to a decree of title by prescription. 

I can find in this case no evidence that the defendant was ever 
disturbed or interrupted in the sense above indicated within ten 
years previous to the bringing of this, action. 

Lawbie, A.CJ. — 

The learned judge finds on the evidence that ** the defendant 
" has been residing on the land for many years, and that he has 
" disputed with various claimants, and he has resisted all efforts 
" to oust him.*' 

In another part of the judgment he says, " defendant has all 
" along resisted, and successfully resisted, dispossessicm." If the ^ 
actual physical possession has never been interrupted, it matters (^oOqIc 



1896. 

Ftbruary 8 
and 14, 

LawbiBp 
A.C.J. 



( 292 ) 

not that the possessor has been troubled by lawsuits, or by claims 
in execution, or by violence ; if he has succeeded in holding posses- 
sion, these attempts to oust him only make it the more certain 
that he held adversely to those who disputed with him. 

Until they succeed in getting the decree of a competent court 
on which they evict him, his possession is good as against his 
opponents. 

Here it is clear that the possession of the defendant has not 
been interrupted during the ten years before action. Has it been 
undisturbed ? A disturbance is something less than an interrup- 
tion ; it is a distiurbance if for a time some one succeeds in getting 
partial possession, not to the entire exclusion of the former possessor, 
but jointly with him. 

In my opinion, there has been no disturbance, and I would set 
aside the judgment and dismiss the action with costs. 



1896. 
JuLy 16, 



READ V. SAMSUDIN. 
C. R,, Colombo, 8,823, 

AcHon by secretary of a voluntary association — Inadmissibility of teehnic- 
alities of law in Courts of Requests — Right of plaintiff to sue — 
Motion to take plaint off the file — Proper mode of dealing with the 
question of right t-o sue — Civil Procedure Code, s. 16 — Costs. 

A voluntary association cannot by agreement between its 
members give any individual the right to sue on their behalf. 

Whore it is practically impossible for a body of numerous 
members to appear as plaintiiSs, the Court may make an order 
under section 16 of the Civil Procedure Code, permitting one or 
more of such members to sue on behalf of the rest. 

It is not the duty of a Judge to throw technical difficulties in 
the way of administering justice. He ought to remove them out 
of the way upon proper terms as to costs and otherwise. 

In a Court of Requests all technicalities of law should be 
avoided. 

When a plaint, defective in some material respect, has been filed. 
it is not necessary to move that it be taken ofif the file, but it is 
the duty of the Court, of its own accord, or upon its attention being 
called) to reject the plaint or return it to plaintiff for amendment. 
If the plaint is good ex facie, any objection thereto must be taken 
by the answer. 

Where defendant, a member of a voluntary association, objected 
at the trial to the reception of certain rules made by the asso- 
ciation, on the ground that such rules were not included in any 
list of documents filed by the plaintiff, — 

Held, that defendant should be deprived of his costs in the 
Court below. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 293 ) 

THIS was an appeal preferred by the plaintiff against the 1896. 
dismissal of an action which he had brought in the Court of ^^^y '^■ 
Requests of Colombo as Honorary Secretary of an institution Bonser,C.J. 
known as the Colombo Library, for the recovery of a certain sum 
of money said to be due by the defendant, who was one of its 
members, for monthly subscriptions unpaid, and for the value of 
certain books taken out by him and not returned. 

The facts in detail are set forth in the judgment of his Lordship 
the Chief Justice. 



Jayaivardewij for the appellant, — 

The plaintiff has no right to maintain this action as the Honor- 
ary Secretary of the Colombo Library, such library being a merely 
voluntary association, and a voluntary a^ssociation cannot even by 
agreement between the members give any individual the right 
to sue on behalf of the members. He cited Evans v. Hooper, 11 
Q. B, D, 45 ; Gray v. Pearson, 5 C. L. i?., 568 ; /. L. R. 14 Madras, 
362. 

Domhorst, for respondent. — The authorities cited do not apply 
because, according to the rules of the library to which the defend- 
ant subjected himself when he became member, the secretary has 
power to sue. The objection, even if valid, is a purely technical 
one, and could be met by amendment. 



16th July, 1895. Bonsee, C.J.— 

In this case the plaintiff, describing himself as Honorary Secretary, 
Colombo Library, sued the defendant to recover certain subscrip- 
tions alleged to be due to the Colombo Library, and the value of 
certain books which were said to have been taken out by the defend- 
ant from the library and never returned. 

The defendant, in the first paragraph of his answer, denied the 
plaintiff's right to sue. 

When the case came on for trial, evidence was given on behalf 
of the plaintiff in support of the action, and the plaintiff sought to 
put in a copy of the rules of the library. This was objected to, 
on the ground that the rules of the library were not included in 
any list of documents filed by the plaintiff, although they were 
referred to in the plaintiff's statement of claim, and were evidently 
relied on. That such an objection should have been upheld is to 
me astounding, especially in a Court of Requests, which is a Court 
from which all technicalities should be banished. 

There was no question of these being the rules of the society. . 
The objection was purely a technical one. Digitized by vjOOglC 



( if^ ) 

1896. Now, I will read what one of the greatest Judges that evtt 

J tdy 1 6, adorned the bench, Sir George Jessel, Master of the Rolls, said 
BoKS]i£B»C.J. on this subject in the case of Jones v, Chenndly 8 Ch, D, 506, An 
objection had been taken there to the admission of certain deposit 
tions, on the ground that the proper notice of intention to read 
them required by law had not been given. He says : *' That 
" notice was not given, but the appellant endeavoured to read the 
" evidence and tender it in the Court below. It was rejected 
'* upon the ground of want of notice. It is disputed whether or not 
'' the counsel for the party desiring to use that evidence did or 
** did not ask for an adjournment ; but in my opinion the Judge 
** below ought to have granted the adjournment as a matter of 
** course without being asked for it. It is not the duty of a Judge 
*' to throw technical difficulties in the way of the administration of 
" justice, but where he sees that he is prevented from receiving 
'* material or available evidence merely by reason of a technical 
" objection, he ought to remove the technical objection out of the 
** way, upon proper terms as to costs and otherwise. I have 
*' known an objection taken at the trial to the admission of a docu.- 
** ment which everybody knew to be a genuine one ; and I have 
** known the Judge say to the person taking the objection, ' I 
" 'will adjourn the cause, but reserve the costs,' and thereupon 
*' the objection has been withdrawn. That I have seen more than 
" once, and I cannot help thinking that if the Judge in the Court 
'' below had offered the adjoiurnment, the other side would have 
** allowed the evidence to be read.'* 

Those observations of the late Master of the BoUs ought to be 
borne in mind by every Judge in this Colony. 

The trial went on, and the Conmiissioner gave judgment for the 
plaintiff. He overruled the objection taken by the defendant in 
his answer to the right of the plaintiff to sue, on the ground that 
the objection ought to have been raised by a motion to take the 
plaint off the file, and that by answering to the merits the defend* 
ant has practically admitted the sufficiency of the plaintiff's 
authority and of the allegations in the plaint. Now, I mast confess 
I cannot understand this. There is no provision in the Ordinance 
for such a motion as the Commissioner refers to. The Code makes 
it the duty of the Court to scrutinize the plaint before it is received, 
to see that it complies with all the requirements of the Code, that 
it is duly stamped, that it discloses a good cause of action, Ac.; 
and if after having carefully examined the plaint the Coiirt is 
satisfied that the plaint complies in all respects with the 
requirements of the law, then the Court is bound to accept the 



I 



( 295 ) 

plaint. The Code lends no countenance to any such practice as 1896. 
that suggested of a motion by defendant to take the plaint off *^^^_f5* 
the file. BoNSEByC.J. 

If the plaint is defective in some material points, and that appears 
on the face of the plaint, but by some oversight the Court has 
omitted to notice the defect, then the defendant, on discovering 
the defect, may properly call the attention of the Court to the 
point, and then it will be the duty of the Court to act as it ought 
to have done in the first instance, either to reject the plaint or to 
return it to the plaintiff for amendment. If the plaint is a good 
one on the face of it, but the defendant has reason to urge why the 
plaintiff is not entitled to sue him, that objection must be taken 
by the answer. 

I hope this is the last occasion on which we shall hear of a motion 
in a Court of Requests to take a plaint off the file. 

In my opinion the objection that plaintiff had no right to sue 
this defendant was rightly taken by the answer, and ought to have 
been disposed of by the Judge. Now, the objection taken by the 
defendant is this. He says : " You (the plaintiff) have no right to 
" sue me. I have not injiured you, nor Is there any contract between 
** you and me under which you can sue me. I am a member of a 
" voluntary association called the Colombo Library, and the per- 
" sons who are injured, if any one is injured by my conduct, are the 
** other members of that association, and it is they, and they alone, 
** who can sue me." I think that is a good objection. No contract 
was proved between the defendant and the plaintiff which gave the 
plaintiff the right to sue this defendant. It was said that the 
rules of the library authorized the secretary to sue, but in my 
opinion the cases referred to by Mr. Jayawardena — Evans v. 
Hooper (L Q. B, D. 45) ; Gray v. Pearson (5 C. L. 12., 55«)— show 
that voluntary associations cannot by agreement between the 
members give any individual the right to sue on behalf of the 
members. Therefore I think this objection ought to have been 
upheld and the plaintiff's action dismissed. 

The defendant will have the costs of this appeal. But there 
will be no costs in the Court below. I deprive the defendant of 
his costs in the Court below, because he insisted on the objection 
as to the admissibility of the rules. 

I should add that the Code in section 16 makes provision for 
such a case as this, where it is practically impossible for a numerous 
body of members to be made plaintiffs. The Court may make 
an order permitting one or more of such members to sue on behalf 
of all parties so interested. . ^ I 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 296 ) 

N^L Q^EN .. DE SILVA. 

WiTHBRfl. J. 2). C, GaUe {Criminal), 12J56. 

IfUentionMy gimtig false evidence — Trial oj offence by the Judge before 
whom such evidence was given — Propriety of such trial. 

Where a witness has intentionally given false evidence in a ease 
before a District Judge, it is not impropei' on his part to try him 
for such offence upon a committal duly made. 

But it would have been more satisfactory if at such trial he hati 
the assistance of assessors. 

THE accused in this case was found guilty on the 10th October. 
1895, by Mr. H. L. Moysey, District Judge of Galle, of 
intentionally giving false evidence in another criminal case 
(No. 12,130) heard and determined by him on the 5th June, 1895. 
The accused was sentenced to two years' rigorous imprisonment. 

On appeal, Domhorst appeared for him. 

Ist November, 1895. Withers, J.— 

I do not see my way to disturb the judgment or interfere 
with the sentence. 

The chief point made by Mr. Domhorst was, that this case was 
tried and determined by the same Judge before whom the aocused 
was alleged to have given false testimony in certain criminal 
proceedings taken a few months ago before him. 

However honourable and just a Judge may be (and, as admitted 
by counsel, no Judge could be more honourable and just than tiie 
present one), it was urged that he must come with a certain bias 
in his mind to the determination of the question which he had 
intentionally decided s^ainst the accused on a former occasion. 
This, however, it seems to me, is a risk that must be run sometimes 
in the course of a judicial inquiry. 

For instance, as Mr. Domhorst mentioned, the same jiuy who 
heard them made are very often called upon to try the question 
whether a man is guilty of making contradictory statements, 
and so forth. 

I need only say that I wish it had occurred to the Judge in this 
instance to call in the assistance of assessors. Assistance of this 
kind is very valuable to a Judge in case of falsehood or fraud. 

But after such a careful and patient trial as this aocused has 
had in the present instance, I do not think it necessary to send 
the case for re-trial before the same Judge with assessors. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 297 ) 

1895. 

SOMASUNDARAM v. IBRAHIM SAIBU. Septembers. 

D. C„ Chilaw, 1,173, Withkbs. J. 

Pri^id/pal and agent — Power oj attorney to minor — Civil Procedure Code, 

8. 24. 

A minor holding a general power of attorney for his principal 
abroad is competent to act as his agent for the limited purposes 
mentioned in section 24 of the Civil Procedm-e Code. 

UNDER section 650 of the Civil Procedure Code, plaintiff 
obtained against the defendant a warrant in mesne process 
and had him arrested. He entered into a security bond and was 
released. On the 9th May, 1895, he moved to t£kke the plaint 
off the file and to be discharged from the security bond, on the 
ground (1) that he had paid and settled the promissory note sued 
upon ; (2) that Somasundaram Chetty, who held the plaintiff's 
power of attorney, and through whom the action was instituted, 
was a minor below the age of twenty-one years ; and (3) that the 
allegations made by Somasundaram Chetty in support of his motion 
for the warrant in mesne process were false and vexatious. 

The District Judge allowed the defendant's motion after 
evidence heard. 

Plaintiff appealed. 

Domhorat appeared for appellant, and Sampayo for defendant 
respondent. 

Srd September, 1895. Withers, J. — 

The plaint has been ordered to be struck off the file, and it is 
this order of the 9th June last which has been appealed from. 

The action is to recover money on a promissory note. The 
plaintiff is one Palaniappa Chetty, and the suit is instituted by his 
attorney, Somasimdaram Chetty. 

It is because this attorney has not attained the age of twenty-one 
years that the order complained of was made. 

The question here is really this, — ^May not a minor holding the 
general powers of attorney for his principal abroad, which is 
indicated in section 25 (b) of the Civil Procedure Code, act as 
a recognized agent for the limited powers mentioned in section 24 ? 

The said Somasundaram Chetty holds such a power ; then 
why should he be not allowed to appear and act as the recognized 
agent of his principal ? He has appointed an attomey-at-law 
to prosecute his principal's suit. 

He is a young man of twenty, and has been engaged in trade 
for the last three years. The English law which governs the 
relations of principal and agent in this Colony is not against him 
— ^that I am aware of. A naked authority which is delegated by a ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 298 ) 

1896. pov^er of attorney may be exercised by any one whether sui juris 
Se ptembe rs, q^ not, SO long as he is of sane mind. (Co. LiU, 52 a.) 
WrrHBss, J. This is a pure delegation involving no liabflity, and I do not see 
why a person of competent understanding, and being one of the 
persons mentioned in the said section 25, should not be allowed 
to act as a recognized agent. He simply represents his principal 
when he appears, and is his mouthpiece when he makes an 
application. He is in no sense a public o£Scer who must be sui 
juris. 

I do not think this order should have been made, and I would 
remit the record for trial in due course. 

Plaintiff will have his costs. 

Browne, A. J., i^greed. 



1896. WIKRAMASOORIYA v. APPUSINHO. 

September 26. 

P. C, Balapitiya, 14,269. 

Criminal Procedure Code, as. 175, 238, and 242 — Pouter of Police Maffis- 
trate to try a lower offet\>ce, while a charge for a higher offence beyond 
his jurisdiction remained formally undisposed of — Power of 
''Attorney-General'' under as. 241-243. 

CoiDplaint was made against accused for intentional insult 
under section 484 of the Penal Code eaxd criminal intuAidation 
under section 486. The Magistrate hecu-d evidence, formulated 
charges under both these sections, and forwarded proceedix^ to 
the Solicitor -General under section 175 of the Criminal Pt'ocedure 
Code. On the return of the record to the Police Magistrate, 
he proceeded to try the accused smnmarily for the offence under 
section 484 only, and convicted him of it. At this trial the 
complainant and his witnesses confined themselves to that part 
of their story which applied to this offence and omitted the rest 
of it: 

Held, that such procedure was irregular. 

The intention of section 238 of the Criminal Procedure Code, t^ 
amended by Ordinance No. 22 of 1890, is to prevent the Magistrate 
being satisfied that the evidence disclosed an offence which he had 
no jurisdiction to try, and having framed a charge for the graver 
offence was not at liberty to dispose of the minor offence. 

Observations of the Chief Justice on the impropriety of getting 
witnesses to say only what will square with the particular charge 
which the Court has determined to try. 

Under sections 241, 242, and 243 the " Attorney-General'^ may 
follow one of these courses : ( 1 ) If he is satisfied that the proceed- 
ings eure in order, he may nominate the Court of trial. (2) If he 
thinks that no further proceedings should be taken, he may direct 
the discharge of the accused. (3) If he finds the evidence defec- 
tive, he may require the Magistrate to take further ^v 

Digitized by ' 



T 



( 290 ) 

HE faots of the case are fully set forth in the judgment of ^®^'^- 
his lordship the Chief Justice. Sepitmber 26. 



Pereira, for accused appellant, cited Christian v. Pedro, 2 C L. 
R., p, 197y and contended that it was irregular on the part of the 
Police Magistrate to have tried the accused for the lower offence, 
dropping the charge formulated in respect of the higher offence 
which was triable only by a higher court. Such a procedure was 
inconsistent with Ordinance No. 22 of 1890, section 238. 

Jayawardene, for respondent. The case cited can be differentiated 
from the present case. There the facts on which the Magistrate 
convicted the accused of affray were necessary to constitute the 
graver offence of rioting. When the facts which make up the minor 
offence do not enter into the constitution of the graver offence, 
the Magistrate can try the minor offence and commit the accused 
for trial on the graver offence. The test is to see whether the 
verdict of the Magistrate could be pleaded in bar — as autrefois 
acquit or autrefois convict — ^to an indictment on the graver offence. 
In this case, the Magistrate has in no way adjudicated on the facts 
which go to make up the graver offence. Hence, the verdict of the 
Magistrate cannot be pleaded as a plea of autrefois acquit or autrefois 
convict. 

His Lordship desired to hear the Solicitor-General upon the 
points involved. 

Rdmavdthany S.-G., appeared for the Crown, — 

It was open to the Police Magistrate to discharge the accused 
from the higher charge. The framing of the charge shall not, 
indeed, take 'place except when there are sufficient grounds for 
oomitting the accused, as provided in section 169, but here, for 
the sake of convenience and economy of time, the charge was 
framed even though the evidence was insufficient, and the case 
forwarded to the Solicitor-General, who returned it, apparently with 
the opinion that it was not worth while committing the case to a 
higher court upon the charge laid under section 486 in view of the 
fact that the threat to cause death was made in self-defence, when 
the complainant took up a stick to strike the accused. If a formal 
order of discharge under the hand of the Attorney-General is 
held to be necessary so as to justify the Magistrate's order of dis- 
charge, it may be produced nunc pro tunc. [Bonser, C.J. — ^If 
that be so, *'all the proceedings taken upon such inquiry shall 
*' cease and be determined," and the proceedings in respect of the 
lesfser offence would also cease]. No, because " such inquiry" in 
section 424 would refer only to the '' complaint, information, or 
" charge" in respect of the higher offence. It would not affect the- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 300 ) 

1895. proceedings on which the lesser oflEence rests. The spirit of section 
Sep tembe r 26. £38 has not been violated, as the conviction for the lesser ofFence 
BoNSER,C.J. was not arrived at with the object of withdrawing the higher 
offence from a higher tribunal. [Bonsek, C.J., — But what justi- 
fication has the Magistrate for recording, at the later inquiry 
or trial, only so much of the evidence as relates to the lower offence ?] 
He might have thought it unnecessary to burden the record i^ith 
evidence irrelevant to the lower charge, which had been dropped. 



26th September, 1895. Bonser, C.J.— 

In this case the appellant was charged and convicted of the 
offence of injsult under section 484 of the Penal Code, and was sen- 
tenced to undergo one month's imprisonment. He has appealed 
against that decision, and claims that he ought to be tried by a 
higher Court. Now, the facts of the case are these : a complaint 
was filed against him charging him, first, with insult under section 
484, and secondly, with criminal intimidation under section 486, 
the threat being to cause death. The latter was an offence which 
the Magistrate had no power to try. The Magistrate entertained 
the complaint and heard the evidence of the complainant and 
his witnesses, who all swore to the fact that appellant drew a knife 
and threatened to kill the complainant, and was only prevented 
from using the knife by the interference of his brother. 

The Magistrate, after hearing the evidence, was apparently of 
opinion that there were sufficient grounds for committing the 
accused for trial, for he framed charges under section 484 and 
section 486 — ^he framed a double charge — and then, as required by 
section 175 of the Code, forwarded the proceedings to the *' 'Attorney- 
General," in order to be instructed by him as to the Court to which 
the committal should be made. Now, the duties and powers of 
the Attorney-General on receipt of such proceedings are set out 
in section 241 and the following sections. There appear to be 
three courses. The first is, if he is satisfied that everything is 
in order, to specify the Court which is to try the case, whether it 
is to be the District Court or the Supreme Court. If, however, he 
is of opinion that no further proceedings should be taken in the 
case, he may make an order in writing, signed by himself, directing 
the accused to be discharged from the matter of the complaint, 
information, or charge. If he takes that course, section 242 
provides that all proceedings shall cease and be determined, and 
that makes an end of the case. The third course is that if he is (rf 
opinion that there is a criminal offence disclosed, but that, the 
evidence is defective, he may order the Police Magistrate to. take 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 301 ) 

further evidence in order to supplement the defect. These appear 1^®^- 
to be the three courses open to him. September 26. 

What was done by the Attorney-Grcneral in this case does not 
appear. There is no record of it. But when the parties appeared 
again before the Magistrate he proceeded to try the accused 
summarily on the first of the two charges, the charge under section 
484, and with the result I have mentioned. The appellant says 
that that course was irregular, and that having been charged with 
an offence under section 486, one of the three courses to which I 
have referred ought to have been taken ; and that it was not com- 
petent for the Court, while the graver charge was still hanging over 
his head, to deal with the lesser charge. 

He also relied upon section 247 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 
which provides for the Attorney-General designating the Court 
before which the case is to be tried, and requires that it must be 
either the Supreme Court or a District Court ; and he says that the 
Attorney-General has no power to designate the Police Court, as 
has been done in this case. However that may be in this case, 
there is no evidence that the Attorney-General did direct it to be 
tried in the Police Court, and we must deal with it as if the Magis- 
trate on his own initiative imposed on himself the duty of dealing 
with the lesser charge. 

It was also urged that the course taken was inconsistent with 
section 238 of the Ordinance No. 22 of 1890. That section provides 
that where a Police Court is dealing with an offence which 
is not triable summarily, " it shall not be at liberty to disregard 
** material parts of the evidence and convict for a lesser offence, 
'* and so withdraw the case from the proper tribunal, but that it 
" shall be the duty of such Court to stop further proceedings 
** under that chapter and to proceed under chapter XVI.," that is, 
it must take proceedings with a view to commit the accused for 
trial by a Superior Court. 

The Solicitor-General argued that the words " to withdraw the 
" case from the proper tribunal " meant that the section only applied 
to cases where there was a deliberate intention on the part of 
the Magistrate to withdraw the case from the proper tribunal- 
I do not think that the words necessarily bear that sense. The 
intention of that section is to prevent what was done in this case, 
and I am of opinion that the Magistrate being satisfied that 
the evidence disclosed an offence, which he had no jurisdiction 
to try, and having framed a charge for the graver offence, was 
not at liberty to dispose of the minor offence. Now, one evil of 
such a course appears very clearly in these proceedings. In 
the first proceeding the complainant and all his witnesses spolfejOOQlC 



( 902 ) 

1895. of the threats of the accused to use a knife, and stated how he 
8ep imib€r 26. restrained by his brother from carrying his threat into execution. On 
WiTHEBs, J. the second hearing the complainant and his witnesses suppressed 
the whole of the evidence relating to this part of the case, so as to 
make the affair appear different from the reality. It is said that that 
evidence was irrelevant to the charge then being tried, and it is 
suggested that the complainant's proctor abstained for that reason 
from bringing out this evidence. 

It seems to me that this has a serious bearing on the adminis- 
tration of justice. If witnesses are to be taught to say only what 
will square with the particular charge which they are told is to 
be established, there will be an end to all confidence in the adminis- 
tration of justice. 

One of the great crying evils in our Courts is the way in which 
witnesses suppress the truth, and tell stories which are made to 
fit their ideas of what is required by their own interest, or by the 
interests of persons for whom they appear to give evidence ; and 
anything in the course of practice or procedure which would in 
any way encourage such a state of things is to be strongly reprobated. 
Therefore, even if such a course of procedure were technically 
correct, I should say that it was not for the interests of justice that 
it should be adopted, and sitting as a Court of Appeal I should 
discountenance it. It seems to me that the proper order to make 
would be, that the conviction be quashed, and that these proceedings 
go back to be dealt with on the charges already framed by the 
Magistrate, leaving it to the Attorney-General to designate the 
Court to which the accused should be committed for trial. 



Withers, J. — ^The Chief Justice's judgment has my hearty 
concmrence. 

The course pursued by the Magistrate not only defeats the 
wise policy of section 238 of the Ordinance No. 22 of 1890, but is 
calculated to stifle truth. 

Mr. Jayawardene urged that this offence of insult in the cir- 
cumstances disclosed was quite distinct from the offence of criminal 
intimidation under section 426, and that in consequence the Magis- 
trate has power to deal with it summarily. 

I am against him on that point, as I consider that the offences 
were so minutely connected as clearly to embrace one and the 
same transaction. 

It would be at once unfair and impolitic to try this man before 
the Police Magistrate for insult on one day, and before a Superior 
Court for intimidation another day. A Court whidi^ia ogmpetent 

Digitized by VjDO: 



( 303 ) 

to try the higher offence should try the lesser at one and the same 1895. 
time. September 26, 

Speaking for myself, I remain of the opinion which I expressed Withbbs, J. 
in the case of Christian v. Pedro Appu (reported in 2 C. L. -B., 
p, 197), and which is accurately put in the head-note as follows : — 

Where, after evidence, an accused is charged by a Police Magistrate 
for an offence not sununarily triable, and is not discharged froin the 
matter of the charge, it is not competent for the Police Magistrate, 
while such charge is still pending, to formulate another charge for 
a lesser offence arising out of the same circumstances, and to try the 
iK^cused siunmarUy thereon. 



RANESINHE, Creditor and Appellant. 1896. 

March 5. 

HENRY et al,, Claimants and Respondents. Bonsek, C.J. 

D. C, Oalle, 2,907 (A), 

Revisionary power of Supreme Court — Civil Procedure Code, s. 753 — 
Liability oj execution-creditor for act of Fiscal — ^Necessity of 
surrender, before seizure, of property pointed out by the judgment- 
debtor — Ci}>il Procedure Code, s. 226* 

An order of a District Covirt, which is wrong ex facie, may be 
quashed by the Supreme Court in the exercise of its revisionary 
power, even though no appeal may lie against such order. 

An execution-creditor who did not authorize the Fiscal to seize 
imder his writ certain property, which upon seizure was rightly 
claimed by a third party, cannot be condemned to pay the costs 
of the claim proceeding. 

A Fiscfid is not entitled to seize property pointed out by the 
judgment-debtor until it has been surrendered to him. 

THE facts of the case appear in the following judgment of the 
Chief Justice. 

De Saram appeared for appellant, and Aluns for respondents. 

3rd March, 1896. Bonsbb, C.J.— 

This appeal should be dismissed, on the ground that no appeal 
lies from a claim order. But Mr. De Saram, who appeared for 
the creditor appellant, has asked us to take up the case in revision, 
following the precedent of a case recently decided by this Court 
(D. C, Jaffna, No. 24,021, Civil Min. 8. C, Oct. 10, 1896). The 
ground on which he asks us to exercise our revisionary power is, 
that the District Judge has made an order condemning him in costs, 
which order, he urges, is, on the face of the proceedings, wrong. (^oOqIc 



1896. 
March 3- 

B0K8KB, C.J. 



( 304 ) 

It appears that the judgment-creditor pointed out to the Fiacal 
certain property, which he said belonged to the execution-debtor. 
The Fiscal, however, declined to seize this property, but seized an 
undivided share of a certain garden which the debtor pointed out 
to him as being Ms own property. Mr. Alwis's client, who claims 
to be the owner of that property, at once put in her claim. The 
claim was referred by the Fiscal to the Court under section 241 
of the Civil Procedure Code, and at the hearing of the claim the 
creditor was there represented by his proctor ; the debtor was 
there represented by hia proctor ; and the claimant was there 
represented by his proctor. 

The creditor opened the inquiry by saying that he admitted 
the title of the claimant ; that he never desired this property to 
be seized ; and that it was against his wish that the property was 
seized. The learned District Judge thereupon made an order 
releasing the property, but ordered the execution-creditor to pay 
the costs of the proceedings on the ground that the Fiscal is the 
agent of the execution-creditor, and that a creditor is responsible 
for whatever the Fiscal does. 

That is a proposition which cannot be maintained. Mr. Alwis 
did. not seek to maintain it, and after the decision of this Court 
in the JafiFna case I do not see how he could do so. 

Therefore, in the exercise of our revisionary power, we quash 
the order. There will be no costs to any party of this appeal. 

I would add that Fiscals should note the words " and surrender 
"to him" which follow the words " as may be pointed out" in 
section 226 of the Civil Procedure Code. A Fiscal is not entitled to 
seize property merely because it is pointed out " by the execution- 
** debtor.*' Before it can be seized it must be " surrendered '* 
by the debtor. What that means will depend on the nature of the 
property, but in every case it must mean something more than 
the debtor pointing out the property for seizure. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 305 ) 

TOUSSAINT t;. ALIMAKANDU et ah 
P. C, BaMcaloa, 10,379. 

Civil Procedure Code, 88. 642,543 — WUfid omission to report death of 
intesUxU — " Duiy of widow, widower, or next of kin.'* 

In order to sustain a charge under section 543 of the Civil Pro- 
cedure Code, it is necessary to prove that the accused are the lawful 
widow or next of kin of the deceased ; that he died intestate ; and 
that the accused wilfully omitted to report his death. 

Semble, per Lawrie, J. — ^The 542nd section makes the widow or 
the n^xt of kin liable. The duty seems first to be laid on the widow, 
and if there be no widow, then on the next of kin. Therefore both 
should not be convicted unless it is proved that they eu^ted in 
concert. 

nPHE widow and the son of a deceased person who was alleged 
•*" ' to have died intestate were charged with and convicted of 
the offence of not reporting the death of such person, in violation 
of section 543 of the Civil Procedure Code. 



1896. 

January 2Z 
and 28. 



They appealed, and Sampayo appeared for them. 
D%€t8, CO., for the prosecutor respondent. 

28th January, 1896. Lawbib, J. — 

The charge is defective. It omits to state that the fedlure to 
report was toilftU, a very necessary allegation, because the offence is 
created by the Ordinance, and is not a malum in se. Wilfulness is a 
material part of the offence. Further, the charge does not set forth 
that the deceased died intestate leaving property above Rs. 1,000. 

The accused are stated to be the next of kin, viz., the widow 
and the son. The widow is not one of next of kin, and the third 
acctffied is only one of several children of the intestate. 

The 542nd section makes* the widow or the next of kin liable. 
The duty seems first to be laid on the widow, and if there be no 
widow, then on the next of kin. It is difficult to hold that both 
are criminally liable, and I would hesitate to sustain this conviction 
of both unless they had been proved to have acted in concert. 

It is not proved that the first accused is the widow. The third 
accused is proved to be one of several children of the deceased, all 
of whom are his next of kin. 

It is not proved that the deceased died intestate. On the 
contrary, the deed produced by the notary looks very like a last 
will of which probate must be taken. It ought, under section 616, 
to have been produced to the Court by the person in whose keeping 
it was deposited. 

Vol. I. 



Lawbis, J, 



*^^^y Google 



( 306 ) 

l$H. I acquit the accused, and I direct the Police Magistrate to forward 

Jamuaru 22 the deed No. 1,791 to the District Judge of Batticaloa in order that 

' he may take such action thereon as may to him seem just and 

Lawbib, J. according to law. 



1895. 
SepUmb€r20. 



PIERIS et at, v. FERNANDO. 
D. C, Colombo, 6,680. 

Contempt of court — Neglect to comply wUh order drat/vn up informaUy and 
made ultra vires. 

In an action for the recovery of certain jewellery, it being fouiid^ 
after evidence of both parties had been heard, that the plaintiff 
owed a certain sum of money to the defendant, who was in posses- 
sion of the jewellery, the District Judge, without entering a decree 
in favour of either party, recorded his opinion that " the most 
' ' equitable coiuise is to order the plaintiff to bring into Court the 
*' Sirni of Rs. 01 within foiuteen days, and the defendant to bring 
" into Court jewellery also within fourteen days, to abide the further 
" order cuid decree of this Court." No formal order was drawn 
up— 

Held, that this order was irregular and tdtra vires^ and that a 
disobedience of it by defendant did not justify his conviction as for 
a contempt of court. 

''f'^HE facts of the case are sufficiently set forth in the judgment 
^ of the Chief Justice. 



BoNSEB,C.J. 20th September, 1895. Bonser, C.J.— 

In this case the appellant was charged with contempt of court 
and found guilty by Mr. Templer, Acting District Judge of Colombo, 
and sentenced to simple imprisonment for a term of six months, 
or until his contempt was purged by producing certain articles in 
Court. The contempt of which the appellant was found guilty 
was disobedience of the direction of the Ck>urt as to bringing certain 
articles into Court within fourteen days from the date of the direction. 
The action was an action for the recovery of certain jewellery. 
At the conclusion of the trial, the Acting District Judge did not 
make any decree either in favour of plaintiff or defendant. He 
found that the plaintiff owed the defendant a sum of Rs, 91, and 
he stated that had this money been brought into Court by the 
plaintiff he would have had no difficulty in framing his judgment 
so as not to affect the legal rights of the parties. " This howevw," 
he proceeded, " has not been done ; accordingly I think the meet 
" equitable course is to order the plaintiff to bring into 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 307 ) 

" Court the sum of Rs. 91 within fourteen days, and the defendant to 1896. 
" bring in the jewellery into Court also within fourteen days, to abide Sept ember 20. 
** the further order and decree of this Court thereon respectively." Bonseb,C.J. 
No formal order was drawn up ; but on the defendant's neglect to 
comply with this order the Acting District Judge, on his own motion, 
charged the defendant with contempt of Court, and found him 
guilty and sentenced him as before mentioned. 

It appears to me that the order that was made was ultra vires. 
It* was an order not asked for by plaintiff, and I do not understand 
how it came to be made. Of course in some cases, where a defendant 
admits the disputed property to be in his hands, the Court, in order 
to secure the preservation of the property, may order it to be brought 
int^ Court and kept in medio until the question as to who is entitled 
to it be determined ; but in this case the trial had been held, the 
evidence of both parties had been heard, and the Judge was in a 
position to decide as to whether the claim of the plaintiff had been 
proved or not. If he thought that claim had been proved, he ought 
to have madQ a decree for the delivery of the property. If he 
thought that the plaintiff was indebted to the defendant, he might 
have made a cross decree in favour of the defendant. It seems to 
me that the order that was made was irregular, and that therefore 
the defendant ought not to have been sent to jedl for disobedience 
of it. 

A very serious question was raised in the course of the argument 
as to the effect of section 69 of Ordinance No. 1 of 1889 on the power 
of District Courts to deal with persons disobeying their orders, 
which, however, it is not necessary on the present occasion to decide. 

WiTHEBS, J., agreed. Withkrs, J. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 908 ) 

^^^' DE Sn^VA et al. v. WEERASINGHE. 

Jamiary 28 

«^^- D. C, Kandp, 8,482. 

Right of way over a public footpath — Evidence of apedal injury to plaintiff. 
In an action raised by the plaintifXs aa owners of a certain garden 
for a declaration that they are entitled to a right of way over a 
public footpath (leading from their garden to a street in Kandy), 
which the defendant had destroyed, and that the defendant should 
be ordered to reconstruct the same and pay plaintiffs a certain sqm 
of money as damages arising from their inability to use t^e same, — 
Held, that such action, in the absence of an allegation that the 
defendant had a land overwhioh the footpath went, or the plaintiffs 
had a right of way over a kmd belonging to the defendant, oould 
not be looked upon as a claim for a servitude on behalf of a dominant 
tenement, but should be treated as an action brought by a member 
of the public for obstructing a public pathway, and that, in the 
absence of proof of special injury to plaintifEs, such action was not 
maintainable. 

THE judgment of Lawrie, J., is explicit as to the facts of the 
case. 

Domhorst appeared for defendant appellant. 

Sampayo, for plaintiffs respondent. 

Cur, adv. vult. 

Lawrik, J. 3Ist January, 1896. Lawrie, J. — 

The plaintiffs aver that they are the owners of Galahitiyawatta ; 
that they have resided in a house on that land ; that they wct© 
entitled to a right of way over a public footpath Bl to B2, to and 
from their house to a street in Kandy ; that they have exercised the 
said right of way, and used the said public path uninterruptedly for 
more than ten years. 

That about two and a half years before action brougbt the 
defendant destroyed a portion of this public path, by reftoon of 
which act of destruction the plaintiffs, their children, and serrants, 
with cattle, have been prevented from using the said pubtic path, 
&c., to the injury of the plaintiffs, for which they claim Rs. 200 
damages. 

Further, that the plaintiffs huve suffered special damage by - 
reason of their not being able (1) to carry and take along the said 
path to the town of Kandy the produce of the said land for sale ; 
(2) to take their cattle from their house along the said path to 
town and back to the house ; (3) to convey and bring manure from 
the town along the said path to the premises for the use of the said 
land ; and they asked Rs. 250 special damages. The plaintiffs 
asked (1) for a declaration that they were entitled to a right of way 
over the said public path ; (2) for a decree that the defendant^ 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( 309 ) 

within a specified time to be named by the Ct/urt, should re-con- 1806. 

struct or repair the portions of the said path which have been January 28 

destroyed by him, or to pay plaintiffs a sum oi Rs. 60 to meet the ^ * 

costs of re-construction or repair ; (3) for damages, Rs. 450. Lawbie, J. 

Now the learned District Judge has not granted the second 
remedy prayed for ; he has made no order as to re-construction, 
nor awarded any sum towards that object ; and the learned Judge 
has also refused to give any special damages. Against his judg- 
ment on these points the plaintiffs have not appealed. To my 
mind, the learned IMstrict Judge was wrong in holding that this 
was proved to be a public path. The proof seems to me quite 
insufficient. The plaintiffs' claim is to my mind ambiguous. I 
think that they did not make up their mind whether to claim 
this path as a servitude or easement, of which their land Galahiti- 
yawatta is the dominant, and the defendant's land is the servient 
tenement, or whether to claim as members of the public against 
a wrongdoer. 

The defendaat is not alleged to have any land over which the 
path goes ; and as the complaint is not that they have a right of 
way over a certain land belonging to the defendant, in my opinion 
this action cannot be justly dealt with as an action for the declara- 
tion of a servitude. It must be regarded as an action by one of 
the public against a man, who, without right, has destroyed a 
public path. Now, in my opinion, such an action is not main- 
tainable by a member of the public unless he avers and proves 
that he himself has sustained some injury for which damages are 
due to him. 

The mere fact that a public way has been obstructed will not 
give Ux every quixotic membisr of the public a right to attack the 
wrongdoer and to get nominal damages from him, and yet, so far 
as I can see, this is what the District Judge has sustained, because 
he has found that the plaintiff has not placed any evidence before 
him which enables hiin to assess damages — still he has given them 
Rs. 30 damages. The plaintiffs' right to relief fails, if they have 
not proved that any produce grew on their land, which could have 
been taken for sale to Kandy ; if they fedled to prove that they ever 
had a head of cattle which they could possibly have taken to and 
from Kandy ; if they failed to prove that they ever thought of 
bringing manure to their land, or that their land, in the old days, 
ever was manured ; — ^the only thing which remained was that 
the plaintiffs and their children and servants were prevented 
from using the path. It is proved that the path was destroyed, 
but non constat that that destruction did the plaintiffs any 
injury. They do not claim this as a way of necessity ; they(^oOQl6 



1896. 

January 28 
and SI. 

Lawkte, J. 



( 310 ) 

have other ways by which to reach and to leave their house. This is 
not said to be the nearest way or the most convenient way from their 
house to Kandy, so far as I can see ; and I am confirmed in this by 
the finding of the learned District Judge, that plaintiffs, as two of 
the public, have suffered no injury at all for which damages are due. 

From the shape of their action, and firom the proof adduced, 
they cannot succeed in having a decree in their favour as owners 
of a dominant tenement declaring this to be a servitude. They 
cannot succeed on the proqf they have adduced in getting decree 
as members of the public, because they have faUed to show such 
special injiury as gives them a title to interfere. I would set aside 
and dismiss with costs. 



WXTH£B8t J. WiTHBBS, J.— 

I agree in setting aside this judgment. I take this to be an action 
by the plaintiffs as a member of the public, who seeks to recover 
damages for being specially injured by the defendant's obstruction 
of way, a common highway. 

I am unable to agree with the District Judge in his finding that 
this is a public pathway. Taking the finding to be correct, I think 
he is bound by the judgment of this Court reported at p. 195 of 2 
8, C, B, A plaintiff under such circumstances cannot succeed, 
unless he proved that he has been specially damaged by the highway 
being obstructed. 

He has disclosed no such special injury as the law understands 
by that term. 

The appellant will have his costs. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 311 ) 

VANSANDEN et al. v, MACK et al, ^^^ 

D.C.,Cd(mbo, 2,976. «^5- 

Last wiU, construction of-—'' The children of the testatrix and their 

descendants " — ^Fidei commisBum — Tenancy in common — 

Ordinance No. 21 of 1844, § 20 — intention of testatrix — Family 

or. angement. 

Per BoNSER, C.J. — No special words are necessary to create a 
fidei commissum, but effect is given to it if it can be collected from 
any expressions in the instrument that it was the testator's inten- 
tion to create it. 

General rules for the interpretation of wills are often unsafe 
guides. The only true criterion is the intention of the testator, to 
be gathered from the will and the circumstemces of the case. 

Per Bbowne, A. J. — The expression ' ' my children and their descen- 
dants " differs in nowise from " my children and my descendants.*' 

Per WiTHKES, J. — ^A direction in a last will that the children emd 
their descendants should not sell or alienate the property devised is 
in itself a creation of bl fidei commissum, and the children appointed 
heirs for the residue of the estate took such property subject to the 
fidei commissum. 

If a thing is to be preserved intact and disintegrated for the 
benefit of coming generations, then the tenants for the time being, 
while the seal of the fidei commissum is still upon that thing, with 
possibility of succeeding beneficiaries, must be considered as 
tenants to whom the rule of ^'li^ accrescendi is applicable, in order to 
serve the express purpose for which the fidei commissum was 
created, and the operation of the Ordinance No. 21 of 1844, section 
20, will be suspended till either there is no possibility of succession 
or till the term fixed for fidei commissum has expired. 

Per Curiam. — Whatever may have been the intention of the 
testator as to the creation of a fidei commissum, where the will has 
been construed by the parties as if the testator had impressed a 
fidei commissum on the property, cuid such construction has formed 
the haeia of family arrangements for a long period, it should not be 
distiu'bed. 

THE plaintiffs, as the surviving descendants of one Petronella 
Evekenel, prayed for a declaration of title to a certain house 
and grounds, upon the averment that she had devised the property 
by her last will to her sons Johannes and Isaac by her first husband 
Beckkenhoff and to her daughter Sarolomina by her second husband 
Fran9oiB, on the condition that they should not seU or alienate the 
same, but that it should be possessed by them and their descendants. 
Plaintiffs contended that as Johannes and Sarolomina had died 
without issue, they were entitled to the whole property as the 
children of Isaac Beckkenhoff. 

They allied further that in 1865 Anjou, the husband of Sarolo- 
mina, having claimed the entire premises, they and Frederick 
Beckkenhoff, as the children of Isaac Beckkenhoff, instituted the 
suit No. 45,398 in the District Court of Colombo against 
the said Anjou and obtained a decree in their fevogg^ ^^^jOOqIc 



and 16. 



( 312 ) 

1895. 1867, which declared them entitled to an undivided one-half of the 
^J^MNi^ premises ; that thereafter the plaintiffs therein and Sarolomina 
possessed the same jointly ; that Frederick Beckkenhoff died 
unmarried and intestate in 1882, from which date the 1st and 2nd 
plaintiffs possessed an undivided half and Sarolomina the remaining 
half ; that Sarolomina died childless in 1892 leaving a last will made 
conjointly with her second husband Anjou, whereby they appointed 
the first and second defendants their executors ; and that these 
defendants claiming title to the entire property, had ousted them 
from their share of possession. 

The defendants denied that any fdei commissum was created 
under the will of Evekenel, or that upon Sarolomina's death with- 
out issue the whole property devolved on the plaintiffs, or that 
the decree in suit No. 45,398 bound Sarolomina. They further 
pleaded that Evekenel had no right to dispose of by her last will 
more than a half sRare of the premises ; that the other half belonged 
to Sarolomina by right of inheritance from her father Francois, 
who died intestate after marrying Evekenel ; that only a half 
share of the premises passed to the devisees under the wiU ; that 
Sarolomina, one of the three devisees, was entitled to one-third 
of the half or one-sixth of the whole ; that she was further entitled 
to an additional one-twelfth by inheritance from her brother 
Johannes ; that all the shares aggregated nine-twelfths or three- 
fourths of the entire house ; that Sarolomina and her second husband 
Anjou left a last will by which they devised the residue of th^r 
estate (including the three-fourths share in question) to certain 
persons who were entitled to the same ; that the first and second 
defendants were executors appointed under that will ; and that the 
third defendant was their tenant. 

In the event of the Court holding adversely to this view, defen- 
dants contended that Sarolomina was entitled t& at least an absolute 
half of the said premises. 

The Acting District Judge (Mr. J. Grenier) gave judgment for 
plaintiffs as prayed. 

The defendants appealed. 

Domhorst (with Sampayo), for defendant appellant. 

Peiri8 (with Van Langenberg and Bavxi), for plaintiffs respondent. 

Cur, adv. vuU. 

Digitized r ^^' 



1 313 ) 

15th October, 1895. Bonseb, C.J.— 1895. 

This case arises on the will, made in 1825, of a Dutch lady who and IS. 
died in 1829. 

BONSBB, C. J. 

At the date of her will she was possessed of a house in Colombo 
and wais twice a widow. By her first husband she had living two 
children, Johannes and Isaac ; and by her second husband one 
child, Sarolomina, who afterwards married one Anjou. 

The testatrix, by her will, which was drawn by an illiterate 
Dutch notary, after giving some trifling gifts of jewellery and 
furniture to her daughter, proceeded as follows : — 

'* The testatrix further declares that her house No. 5, situated and 
** lying in Land street in the Pettah of Colombo, shall not sell 
** or alienate, but be possessed by her children and their descen- 
** dants." Proceeding to the institution of heirs, she declares {b 
'' nominate and institute her children, Johannes Simons and Isaac 
" Augustinus Beckkenhoff, procreated by her first marriage with Mr. 
'' Christian Beckkenhoff, and Sarolomina Welhelmina Fran9ois, by 
" her second marriage with Mr. Engelbert Otho William Fran9ois, 
** to all the residue and remainder property whatsoever which she 
" shall leave behind, equally to be divided and possessed amongst 
** them without any molestation of any person whatsoever." 

It appears that Johannes died in 1849 childless, but leaving a 
will, by which he demised all his property to his widow, who claimed 
to be entitled to one-third of the said house. This claim was 
resisted by the surviving brother and sister, but ultimately the 
claim, and a suit which had been instituted in the District Court of 
Colombo, were compromised by an agreement, whereby Isaac 
and Sarolomina granted to the widow the usufruct of a portion 
of the premises diuing her life, with a proviso that on her death it 
was to revert to them and their heirs and descendants. 

In 1865 Isaac died, and the respondents are his childrea. Shortly 
after his death litigation ensued between the respondents and 
Sarolomina and her husband, which resulted in a decree being 
made, by consent, giving each party a half share in the house. 
It will be seen that on both these occasions the existence of a fidei 
oammissum rendering the house inalienable was successfully asserted. 
Moreover, Sarolomina's husband afterwards became insolvent, 
and in his schedule of assets included the life rent, belonging to his 
wife, of one moiety of the said house, thus recognizing the fdei 
commissum. 

In 1892 Sarolomina died a widow, without issue, leaving a will, 
which did not mention this property ; and the appellants, her 
executors, entered into possession of the house, excluding the 
respondent from any share therein. Now, however, they linait^ (^OOqIc 



1895. 

October 9 
and 16, 

BONSKB, C. J. 



( 314 ) 

their claim to a moiety. They claim Sarolomina's oxie-thiid asil 
one-half of Johannes's one-third. 

The respondents, on the other hand, claim the entirety of the 
premises, as being the only extent members of the clase — " the 
" descendants of the children of the testatrix." 

No special words are necessary to create a fidei commis&um, but 
effect is given to a fidei comm%88um if it can be collected from any 
expressions in the instrument that it was the testator's intention 
to create it. {2 Burge, 106.) 

That the prohibition against alienation created 9k fidei commissum 
is not disputed by Mr. Domhorst, who ai^ed tiie case for the 
appellants, but, as I understood him, he contends that the will 
created three independent fidei commisaa, each of an undivided 
one-third share of tbe house in favour of each child and his des- 
cendants ; that when Johannes died without issue his share passed 
by his will to his widow, who, in ignorance of her rights, abandoned 
her share to Isaac and Sarolomina ; and that now Sarolomina is 
dead without issue, her one-third share, together with the one-half 
of Johannes's share, forms part of her estate, and passed to the 
appellants. 

In my opinion this is not in accordance with the intention of the 
testatrix. Although the will is very badly expressed, yet I think 
that it suffieiently appears that the testatrix intended the house 
to be enjoyed as a whole by her three children and their defH>end- 
ants as long as the law allowed, that is, for four generations. 

In these cases general rules are often unsafe guides, and the 
only true criterion is the intention of the testator to be gathered 
from the will and the circumstances. Praesertim cum voluntas 
fideicommiUentis potissimum apeciari debeat, etc observari : sic ut 
genercUes itta defideicommisaorum interpretatione regtUce scepe quidem 
usum inveniant, sed et acepefailaces sint {Voet, XXXVI., 1, 72). 

The interpretation put upon the will by Mr. Domhorst would 
destroy what I consider to have been the intention of the testa- 
trix, that the property should be enjoyed by her children and 
their descendants as long as the rules of law permitted ; for in 
this case the result would be that at the end of the first generation 
only one-third of the property would have been possessed by the 
descendants of the testatrix's children. 

We were referred to a case in 3 S. C. E. 158, TUlakaraine r. 
Aheyesekara, but that case is distinguishable from the present case. 
There a division of the property was contemplated by the testatrot 
for she expressly directed it to be divided ; here the testatrix dealt 
with the house as an integral unit. ^^.^.^^^ ^^ GoOgle 



( 315 ) 

In the view I take of this case, Ordinance No. 21 of 1844 does not 1893- 
apply, nor is there any question of ju8 accrescendi. The state- ^^**1^ 

ment in Voel XXXV I,, i, 29, ad fin {'^fidei commissi petilio campe- ^ * 

tit omnibus, gm ex famUia ceque propiitqui sunt, avi ex reprsesenta- Bonskb, O. J* 
tione pro ceque propinquis habentur exdusis iUis, qui remotiores 
«en<") 'would seem to be aj^licable to the present citse, if we 
.substitute for family the phrase " the descendants of the children 
*' of the testatrix." 

But whether this construction be the true one or not, it has 
been acted upon for now nearly seventy years ; it has formed the 
basis of family arrangements and compromises ; and ought not, 
at this distance of time, to be disturbed. 

The appeal will be dismissed with costs. 

WiTHBBS, J.— Withers, J. 

This is a clumsily expressed will in regard to that portion of it 
which refers to the property in dispute. 

What was the intention of the testatrix in regard to the dis- 
position of the premises, and has that intention been given effect 
to in the will ? 

I think there can be little doubt that it was the intention of 
the testatrix to impress a fidei commissum on the property, in 
the interest of the three children and their descendants, for such 
time as the law might allow to be possessed by them, and no others. 

The direction that the children and their descendants should 
not sell or alienate it, in itself created a fidei commissum, and in 
my opinion the children appointed heirs for the residue of 
the testator's estate took that property subject to the fidei com- 
fnissum. 

I further think that the property was to be kept as an indivisible 
trust. 

But, whatever may have been the intention of the testatrix, it 
has been so clearly construed and acted upon by the parties in- 
terested for so long a time, that we cannot possibly disturb the 
arrangement. 

It was clearly understood by the late Sarolomina and Isaac that 
the survivor should hold the entire premises for the purposes of 
the trust. This involved the operation of the jv^ accrescendi, 
whether that was or was not intended by the testatrix, and the 
plaintiff's descendants are clearly entitled to hold the entire premises 
for themselves and in trust for their descendants, if any, after 

^^^^ Digitized by GOOgk 



1896. 

October 9 

and 16. 

^ITHSRS, J. 



( 316 ) 

It was strenuously contended, however, by Mr. Domhorat, that 
the tenure of the premifies by Isaac and Sarolomina should be 
governed by the provisions of the Ordinance No. 21 of 1844, and he 
claimed a declaration that they were tenants in common of the 
premises in equal undivided shares. Even if that Ordinance has 
a retrospective operation, I do not think it applies to this case 
in the existing circumstances. 

If one thing is to be preserved intact and disintegrated for the 
benefit of coming persons, then the tenants for the time being, 
while the seed of the fidei commiasum is still upon that thmg, with 
possibility of succeeding beneficiaries, must be considered as tenants 
to whom the rule of jus accrescendi is applicaUe, in order to serve 
the express purpose for which the fidei commissum was created, 
and the operation of the Ordinance will be suspended till either 
there is no possibility of succession, or till the term fixed for the 
fidei commissum has expired . 

In this case, for instance, if the three children appointed fidei 
commissaries and fiducickries for their children were presently 
alive, and had reached an age beyond all possibility of issue, or if 
Isaac and Sarolomina were the two surviving descendants in the 
fifth generation, then, in the absen< e of an express provision by 
the testatrix, that the three children in the first case or the surviving 
children in the fifth generation in the second case would hold the 
property as joint tenants with benefit of survivorship, the Ordinance, 
if retrospective, would operate to make the tenure one in equal 
undivided shares. 

It is the constitution of the fidei commissum in this case which 
differentiates it from TiUakaratne v, Abeyesekara in 3 8. C. R. 

77, 158. 

I still think that the Ordinance would apply (even when the 
term of the fidei commissum was subsisting) in all doubtful cases, 
so that a tenure would be deemed to be one in common for the 
benefit of each tenant's descendant, and not a joint tenure with a 
jus accrescendi to the siu^vivors or siu^vor. 

The appeal therefore, in my opinion, fails, and should be dis- 
missed with costs. 



Bbownb,A.J. Brownb, a. J.— 

I have had the advantage of reading the draft judgments of 
my Lord the Chief Justice and my brother. 

Concurring entirely in their views as to the creation of a valid 
fidei commissum and in their affirmance of the decree, I would 
add only the suggestion that were the provisions of section 20 of 
Ordinance No. 21 of 1844 applicable to this^wjjU^j)f earlier date than 



( 317 ) 

the enactment, the creation of a fidei commissum such as this, in 1895. 
favour of a family, should be regarded as an express provision October 9 

that the survivor should become entitled even to the extent (wherein " " 

I venture to differ from my brother) that the benefit of survivorship Bbownb, A.J. 
would enure to the very last taker of the fourth generation. 

As regards the intention of this testatrix, I regard her words, 
" my children and their descendants," as differing in nowise from 
" my children and my descendants." 

In the absence of any intention of division of the estate, in the 
fact of its concerning only the one family house, and in its greater 
simplicity of provisions, however imgrammatically or ignorant]y 
expressed, I regard this case as even a clearer indication of intention 
to create a fidei commissum in favour of the testatrix's family, 
than the case wherein our judgment is reported in 3 8. C, R. 158. 



THE QUEEN v. NANDUA et ah 1895 

^ ^ ».. , . ^ . . , « December 31, 
D. C, Kandy (Cnminal), 823, 

Rio^ — Vohmtarily causing hurt — Ceylon Penal Code, s, 67, 

When five or more people assemble with the object of beating a 
particular person, and do beat him, they are guilty both of riot and 
voluntarily causing hurt ; but inasmuch as the act of riot is made 
up of the offences of unlawful assembly and voluntarily causing 
hurt, which was the object of the assembly — 

Held, that their case fell under section 67 of the Ceylon Penal 
Code, and that they should be punished for the principal offence of 
riot only. 

Case of Munivxila v, Davitiia, Civ. Min., 11th December, 1895, 
disapproved. 



T 



HE facts of the case appear in the following judgment of the 
Supreme Court. 

DoTvhorst, for appellant. 

Diets ^ C.C., for respondent. 

Cur, adv. vult. 

3l8t December, 1896. WrrHBRS, J. — 



Withers, J. 



In this case nine persons were indicted before the District 
Judge of Kandy for the two offences, one of riot under section 
144, Ceylon Penal Code, and the other of vohmtarily causing 
hurt to Spencer Walter Gane under section 314, Ceylon Penal 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WiTHBBS, J. 



( 318 ) 

1890. Code, at Holton estate, on the 27th day of August last. The I>istnct 
l>0cember 31, Judge found all the accused, except the third accused^ guilty of 
both offences. The third accused, Yamanagedara Howadia, the 
District Judge has acquitted of both offences, and has discharged 
him. 

The judgment was pronounced on the 3rd Decembw, and the 
sentence awarded on the following day. 

The first accused was sentenced to nine months' rigorous imprison- 
ment for the offence of rioting and to three months for voluntarily 
causing hurt. 

The second accused to six months for rioting and to two months 
for voluntarily causing hurt. 

The ninth accused to four months for rioting and to two monUis 
for voluntarily causing hurt. 

The fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth were on the second 
day found to be " constructively guilty under section 146 of volun- 
tarily causing hurt." 

The District Judge thought it sufficient to pass one sentence on 
them for the two offences. This really maJ^es a third offence, for 
on the previous day he had convicted them of rioting and voluntarily 
causing hurt. 

The sixth accused was sentenced to three months' rigorous 
imprisonment because he took a more prominent part than the 
fourth, fifth, seventh, and eighth. 

Mr. Domhorst appeared for the accused appellant, and Mr. 
Crown Counsel Dias in support of the judgment. 

At the close of the case I had no doubt in my own mind that 
most of the accused had been well convicted, at least of one of the 
offences, riot or voluntarily causing hurt. 

Mr. Dornhorst, however, pressed on me a judgment of mine 
recently pronounced in the case of MuniuxHa v, DavUha et al, (498 
P. C, Hambantota, 1557). In that case I made observations 
which implied that if some five or more people assembled together 
with the one object of assaulting a person, and they carry thear 
purpose into effect, they are guilty of assault rather than of riot, 
I took time to consider that proposition, and after consideration 
I think it is not strictly accurate. 

Having looked carefully again into our Penal Code, I think 
that according to that Code if five people or more assemble with 
the object of beating a particular person, an^ do beat him, they 
are guilty both of riot and of assault, but it is quite a different 
question whether they should have different punishments for 
these two offences. 

I recwiily follow what I fijid appears to have been laid down by 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 319 ) 

the Madras High Ck)urt as reported in Prinsep's Indian Criminal ISiib. 
Procedure Code : " Where the charge is founded on one single Dec ember si, 
" continuous transaction, the first thing to be ascertained is what Withkb8» J. 
"is the principal legal offence involved in the conduct of the 
*' accused ; what would subject him to the greatest amount of 
" punishment. That being ascertained should form the first head 
"' of the charge ; the object of adding others is not the accumulation 
" of punishment, but to provide against the event of the evidence 
** failing to establish the principal charges." 

In this case clearly the principal offence was riot. Some of 
the accused assembled together with the sole object of assaulting 
Mr. Gane. They effected their purpose. Riot was thus the princi- 
pal offence they committed. That act of riot again was made 
up of two other offences, unlawful assembly and voluntarily causing 
hurt, which was the object of the assembly. They therefore should 
only be punished for the principal offence of riot. This case comes 
clearly within the provisions of section 67 of our Penal Code. 

Another point I took time to consider was the natiure of the 
evidence against the fourth accused, Medakotuwe Belinda ; fifth 
accused, Amunagedara Horatella ; and eighth accused, Udugama- 
gedara Pasumba. 

I have carefully gone over the evidence a second time, and I 
think the evidence against them is of very much the same charac- 
ter as that against the third accused, and I think they ought to have 
the benefit of the doubt as to their being present on the occasion 
of the assault on Mr. Gane. 

I therefore reverse the conviction against these appellants and 
acquit them. The sentences against the first, second, sixth, 
seventh, and ninth accused, for the offence of rioting, I afGrm. 
The sentences against the first, second, and ninth, for voluntarily 
causing hurt, I set aside. 

In the result the fiirst accused, Pitakotuwa Nandua, is sentenced 
to nine months' rigorous imprisonment for rioting. The second 
accused, Pituwella Nandua, is sentenced to six months' rigorous 
imprisonment for rioting. 

The sixth accused, Pitawatugedara Menika, is sentenced to three 
months' rigorous imprisonment for rioting. 

The seventh accused, Pudunay Hawadiya, is sentenced to one 
month's imprisonment for rioting. 

The ninth accused, Pallemaditta Horatella, is sentenced to four 
months' rigorous imprisonment for rioting. 

llie fourth, fifth, and eighth accused are acquitted. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 320 ) 



189S. QUEEN V. GABA et al. 
D. (7., KcUiUara (Criminal), 660. 

Criminal Procedure Code, s, 18 — Sentence — Power of Court to give aggre- 

gate puniakment — Di^inct qffences. ^ 

Under section 18 of the Criminal Procedure Code, it is competent 
for a District Court to pass sentences on an accused person aggre< 
gating four years. 

But such a power should not be exercised except when the offences 
of which the accused is convicted are completely distinct in ih&r 
character. 



'T^HE persons accused in this case were convicted of hoase- 
-^- breaking by night in order to commit theft (under section 
443) and of committing theft in the same building used as a homan 
dwelling (under section 369 of the Penal Code), and each of the 
accused were sentenced '' to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a 
period of two years for the first offence, and further to ondeigo 
rigorous imprisonment for a period of two years for the second 
offence, the several terms of imprisonment to commence imme- 
diately after the expiry of the first term ; in all to imdergo each 
four years' rigorous imprisonment." 

On appeal preferred by the accused, Domhorst (w th him Jaya- 
wardana) appeared for them. 

The Supreme Court affirmed the conviction, but ordered the 
sentence passed on each of the appellants to be reduced from four 
to two years, for reasons given in the following judgment : — 

Withers, J. 16th December, 1895. Withbbs, J. — 

Notwithstanding the able way in which he put his appeal, Mr. 
Dornhorst failed to convince me that the verdict arrived at is a 
wrong one. 

I reserved consideration of the sentences passed on the appellants. 

The 18th section of the Criminal Procedure Code seems to me 
clearly to enact that, when a person is convicted at one trial of 
two or more distinct offences, the Court may sentence him for 
such offences to the several punishments prescribed therefor, 
which such Court is competent to inflict, provided that if the ease 
is tried by a District or Polce Court, the aggregate shall not exceed 
twice the amount of punishment which such Court in the exercise 
of its ordinary jurisdiction is competent to inflict. 

Hence a District Court is competent in such a ease to pas 
sentences aggregating four years. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 321 ) 

Such a power should not, however, be exercised except when 1896. 
the offences are completely distinct in their character. The dis- Deo emher 25. 
tinct character of the offences will be best indicated by the intention wrrHKss, J. 
of the offender. If, e,g., the dominant intention is to injure the 
person, there should be but one punishment, though the transaction 
in its entirety discloses more than one injury to the same person. 
If the transaction, on the other hand, discloses an intention to com- 
mit a crime against the person as well as the property of the injured 
person, the punishments may and should be distinct. Let me 
illustrate what I mean. If A commits the offence of rape against B, 
and then and there commits theft from B's person, his conduct 
indicates the intention of committing two offences wholly distinct in 
character, and separate sentences would be appropriately passed 
upon him in such a case. Lust and greed are alike gratified. 

In the present case, to use the language of the old Criminal Law, 
there was burglary and theft from a dwelling-house in one and the 
same transaction. The single intention sus disclosed by the conduct 
of the appellants was to commit an offence against property. In 
consequence one sentence should have been passed, in my opinion. 
I therefore reduce the sentence against each of the appellants from 
four to two years' rigorous imprisonment. 



In the Matter of the Insolvent Estate of JOHN RAYNOR 1896. 

MACQUINE PRESSLIE. Octoberl7. 

D. C, BaduOa, 86. 

Insolvency — Assignee's report — Practice of tradesmen allowing credit to 
persons of slender means. 

The District Court should, in all cases of insolvency, insist on 
having a report from the assignee as to the conduct euid dealings of 
the insolvent before adjudicating on his application for a certificate. 

Observations on the improper practice of tradesmen allowing 
credit to persons of slender means, and thus encouraging them to 
run up heavy bills which they have no prospect of paying. 

npHE facts of the case are stated in the judgment of his Lordship 
-^ the Chief Justice. 

Sampayo, for appellant. 

Aaerappa, for respondent. 

10th October, 1895. Bonsbr, C.J. — Bonser,C.J. 

In this case the insolvent, Mr. Presslie, appears to have been the 
Superintendent of Warburton estate in Badulla, and was in the- - t 

VOL. I. 12(54)29^^^^8^^ 



( 322 ) 

1895. receipt of a salary, first of Rs. 50 and then of Rs. 60 a month, on 
October 10. which he was supposed to keep himself. On that salary he managed 
BoNSKa»C.J. ^ ^^^^ up ^^ ^th. various tradesmen to a considerable amount. 
One of the principal creditors was Messrs. Walker & Greig, of Badulla, 
who are general storekeepers, and who allowed him to run up a bill 
for eatables and drinkables and other articles of over Rs. 600 in the 
course of a few months. Previously to that, he appears to have been 
in receipt of a larger ssJary of Rs. 140 a month, and during that time 
he ran up a bill with another storekeeper of Badulla of over Rs. 700. 
Whilst in receipt of this mimificent salary of Rs. 50 a month, he 
also ran up an account with one Perera of over Rs. 100, with the 
CJolombo Apothecaries' Company of over Rs. 200 — ^for what, does 
not appear — and with Cargill & Co. and other persons for smaller 
sums. He was ultimately made insolvent on his own petition. 
Only two of his creditors proved : Walker & Greig and another 
creditor for over Rs. 700, one Packir Saibo. An assignee was 
appointed, but he has made no report. We consider that in all 
cases a District Court should insist on having a report from the 
assignee as to the conduct and dealings of the insolvent before 
adjudicating on his application for a certificate. 

In this case the grant of a certificate was opposed by Messrs. 
Walker & Greig, on the ground that the insolvent had behaved with 
recklessness in contracting these debts — ^with such recklessness 
as to amount to dishonesty. 

I must say that if the insolvent was reckless to the verge of 
dishonesty, he was aided and abetted by his opposing creditors, 
Messrs. Walker & Greig. 

I have no sjmipathy with creditors who allow a man in receipt 
of a wretched salary like this to run up such a bill as this. If they 
lose their money they have only themselves to thank for it. But I 
think it is desirable that a District Court should not adjudicate 
on the question of a certificate without a report from the assignee. 

Therefore, without going into the merits of the case at all, we 
direct that the order granting a certificate of the third class be 
discharged in order that the District Court may re-consider the 
application on fuller and better materials than it had before it 
when it made the order. 

The insolvent will have protection until the application has 
been disposed of. 



WiTHEBS, J. WiTHBRS, J. — 



T entirely concur in and endorse all the observations of my lord 
on the improper practice of tradesmen in allowing credit to persons 
of the slenderest means, and encouraging them to run up heavy 
bills which they have no present prospect of paying. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



'J 



( 323 ) 

SOYSA V. APPUHAMY. 
Additional P. C, Ratnapura, 3,062. 

Ordinance No, 11 of 1865^ 3. 7 — Labourer — Coniract of service — QuitHng 

service without leave or reasonable cause — Finding of Police 

Magistrate, 

In a prosecution under the Labour Ordinance of 1865 against a 
servant for quitting service without leave or reasonable cause, it is 
necessary that the Magistrate should, in the event of a conviction, 
state in his judgment the capeunty in which the accused was 
employed in the complainant's service, so as to show that his 
quitting it without leave or reasonable cause constituted an offence 
against the Labour Ordinance. 

Unless some definite term of service is expressed in a written 
contract for hire and service, it will be obnoxious to section 7 of 
Ordinance No. 11 of 1865, and the servant cannot be criminally 
punished under that Ordinance. 

npHIS case was brought up in revision on the application of the 
-^ Attorney-General. The facts are sufficiently stated in the 
judgment of Mr. Justice Withers. 

Layard^ A.-O. The evidence recorded in this case does not 
disclose any ofifence. There was no formal charge. The com- 
plaint against the accused is as a labourer under a written contract 
of service. But the prosecution did not prove the special agree- 
ment. For some reason or other the contract has not been put 
forward. It may be outside the Labour Ordinance. In a criminal 
case the terms of a contract cannot be assumed in the absence of 
formal proof. The proceedings are otherwise irregular. The 
Police Magistrate does not record his reasons for the conclusions 
he arrived at. 

Morgan, for the respondent. The proceedings must be admitted 
to be irregular. But the Police Magistrate's reason for finding 
the accused guilty is that he did not resume his service on the 
estate after his return from jail. He was bound to go back to the 
estate and leave it with due notice {Hunt v. MvMan, P. C. Ratnapura, 
6,545, 4 8. C, C. 3), (Withees, J. — ^The contract in question does 
not appear to bring the accused within criminal liability. Bonseb, 
C.J. — What is the distinction between monthly wages and daily 
wages ?) The coolies on such estates are generally paid on the 
footing of daily wages earned. (Bonsbr, C.J. — ^Then they are day 
labourers.) I think that is the practice throughout the Island. 
(BoNSER, C.J. — ^Then, if he does not work the whole month he is 
not liable to punishment.) As a rule they work about five days in 
a week. They have to work four days in a week, otherwise they 
will not receive the usual advance ; and if the cooly attends 
muster every day, the master is bound to provide him with 
work. The written contract of service referred to was 

iize( 



1896. 
October 23. 



:?5^^y Google 



1896. 
October 23. 



( 324 ) 

proved. But I have it with me, and shall read it with Your 
Lordship's permission. (Bonsbr, C.J. — ^You may read it.) 

The contract was read, but it did not appear to be within the 
purview of the Labour Ordinance. 



WiTHBBs, J. 23rd October, 1895. Withbbs, J.— 

The question for our decision in revision is whether the conviction 
of the petitioner in revision can stand. 

The accused wsus convicted of quitting the service of the com- 
plainant, one J. F. Soyza, without leave or reasonable cause, in 
breach of section 11 of Ordinance No. 11 of 1865, and upon that 
conviction the accused was sentenced to a term of rigorous 
imprisonment for a " fortnight." 

The Magistrate has not stated in his judgment, as he should do, 
the date on which the prisoner committed the alleged oifence. 

His judgment is further defective in not specifying the capacity 
in which the petitioner was employed in the complainant's service, 
so as to show that his quitting it without leave or reasonable cause 
constituted an offence against the Labour Ordinance. 

As the evidence was read out by the Attorney-General (on whose 
application the case had been brought up in review), it transpired 
that the petitioner was bound to the complainant by a contract in 
writing, which, if produced, was not proved in the Court below. 

Mr. Morgan, who appears on behalf of the complainant in these 
proceedings, has however read out to us the terms of the contract 
which, as a matter of fact, the petitioner did enter into with the 
complainant. Now we know what it was, it seems to us to be 
unnecessary to send these proceedings back to have the contract 
formally proved and put in evidence, because it does not come 
within the scope of the provisions of section 7 of Ordinance No. 11 of 
1865. 

That section enacts that — 

No contract entered into in this laland for the hire and service of any 
servant or journeyman artificer for any period of time longer than one 
month shall be valid in law, so as to subject any party thereto to the 
provisions of this Ordinance for not performing the same, unless such 
contract shall be in writing, and shall clearly express the terms and 
conditions thereof, and shall be signed or acknowledged by the parties 
thereto in the presence of a Police Magistrate or a Justice of the Peaces 
or other person expressly authorized by the Governor, such Justice op 
other person not being himself the employer of such servant or journey- 
man artificer, or the agent of such employer. And it shall be the duty 
of such Police Magistrate, Justice of the Peace, or other authorized 
person to see that the contract is fully explained to the parties, and 
to certify on the contract that they fully understand the t-eims 
thereof, and are desirous to fulfil the same. And such contract, 
when produced in evidence, and having the certificate of the Police 
Magistrate, Justice of the Peace, or duly authc»ized nerson as 

Digitized by VjOCt 



( 326 ) 

aforeecud, shall be primd f<icie evidence of the matters and things 1896. 

contained therein. And every such contract shall be executed in October 23. 

triplicate, and it shall be the duty of such Police Magistrate, or 

Justice of the Peace, or other authorized person as aforesaid, to Withers, J. 

give or cause to be given one copy thereof to the servant, and to 

send or cause to be sent, within ten days of the execution thereof, 

another copy thereof to the Police Magistrate of the district wherein 

such contract shall have been executed, and in default thereof such 

Magistrate or Justice shall be liable to a penalty of five pounds. And 

the said Police Magistrate is hereby required to preserve the said 

counterpart, and to allow any person who may be interested in the said 

contract to inspect the same. Provided always that no contract 

(excepting contracts made under the 8th section of this Ordinance) for 

the hire and service of any servant or journeyman artificer (whether 

made in Ceylon or in India as provided by the 9th section) shall be valid 

under the provisions of this Ordinance if made for a longer period of hire 

or service than three years. 

Now, this clearly implies that some definite time must be expressed 
ill a written contract for hire and service. 

It is impossible to say at what time the contract in question 
may be determined — ^it may be determined in a we^, er it may 
not be determined for several years — the object apparently being 
to keep the labourer on the estate until he has worked off a sum 
of money which has been advanced him by his employer. 

It is the absence of any express limitation of a term of service 
which renders the present contract obnoxious to the 7th section 
of this Ordinance, so that the petitioner cannot be criminally 
punished for anything he may have done in violation of the pro- 
visions of that contract. 

The employer may or may not have his civil remedy, but the 
Labour Ordinance does not permit him to criminally prosecute a 
servant who is bound to him under a contract of this description. 

For these reasons the conviction should be set aside and the 
petitioner acquitted and discharged. 

BoKSSB, C.J. — I agree for the same reasons. bon8br,0.j. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 326 ) 



1890. KUTTALAM CHETTY v. INA MUTTU. 

March 4. 

P. C, Colombo, 41fl35. 

Criminal Procedure Code, 8, 236 — False and vexaiioue case — Case 
" instituUd on complaint " — Case instituted on formal police 
report — Duly of police officers as to complaints made to them 
— Compensation — Croum costs. 

Where a Police Magistrate takes proceedings on a formal written 
report made to him by a police officer under sub-section 2 of section 
162 of the Criminal Procedure Code, and finds the complaint 
frivolous or vexatious, it is not open to him to condemn the party on 
whose information such written report was made either in compel- 
sation to the accused or in Crown costs. 

A case " instituted on complaint *' (referred to in section 236 of 
the Criminal Procedure Code) is a case instituted on a complaint 
made by a person to a Police Magistrate in terms of section 152 
(1) of that Code, and does not mean a case instituted on a *' formal 
written report " made by a police officer to the Magistrate, in terms 
of section 152 (2). 

The reason why the order to pay compensation to the accused is 
restricted to cases " instituted on complaint ** is because the Legis- 
lature thought that the police would not institute cases without 
having previously made due inquiry and satisfied themselves that 
there was a real, substantial case which ought to be dealt with by a 
Police Court. K the result of the inquiry made by the police is to 
leave room for doubt whether the case is not a frivolous one, they 
should refer the informant to the Police Court, and not take upon 
themselves the responsibility of instituting a case of the bona fides 
fittid merits of which they are not satisfied. 

/^N the 8th February, 1896, PoUce Sergeant Jansen informed 
^-^ the Police Court on the complaint of one Kuttalam 
Chetty that Ina Muttu, on the 4th February, 1896, " dishonestly 
" misappropriated to his own use a double bullock cart and three 
'* coast bulls, all of the value of Rs. 70, and thereby committed an 
*' offence punishable under section 389 of the Ceylon Penal Code." 
The Magistrate examined witnesses, including Kuttalam Chetty, 
and acquitted the accused and recorded as follows : — " The case 
*' is false and vexatious. The complainant is ordered to pay Rs. 5 
*' Crown costs, in default fourteen days' imprisonment ; and 
" further to pay Rs. 10 compensation to accused, in default 
*• fourteen days' imprisonment (section 236, Ceylon Penal Code).'* 

Kuttalam Chetty was treated as the party referred to as 
*• complainant " in the above order, and the fines were recovered 
from him. 

He appealed from the order condemning him in compensation 
and Crown costs. 

Tirundvukkarasu, for respondent, submitted that no appeal lay 
from the order as to Crown costs. ^ ^ . 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 327 ) 

Pereira, for appellant. The Code, it is true, enacts that from 1^^^- 
an order as to Crown costs there shall be no appeal. That means ^^^ ^ 
an order regularly made under sub-section 39, section 236. Where, 
however, a Magistrate, presuming to act under that sub-section, 
makes an order clearly vUra vires, such order is not protected by 
the provision against appeal. In the present case the Magistrate 
fined the wrong man. The Police Sergeant was liable to be con- , 

demned in Crown costs, and not the appellant. Then, as to the 
order for compensation, that order can only be made as a case 
instituted on complaint, meaning a case falling under sub-section 
1 of section 152 ; but the present case came under sub-section 2. 

Tirundvukkardsu heard contra. 



4th March, 1896. Bonsbb, C.J.— BcasBR,O.J. 

In this case the appellant was ordered to pay Rs. 5 as Crown 
costs, in default fourteen days' imprisonment ; and he was further 
ordered to pay Rs. 10 compensation to the accused, and in default 
fourteen days' imprisonment. These orders were made under 
section 236 of the Criminal Procedure Code, on the ground that 
the case was false and vexatious. Now, section 236 only applies 
to cases " instituted on complaint," and therefore we have to find 
out what is the meaning of a case instituted on complaint. 

If we refer to section 152 of the Code, it will be seen that there 
are several ways of instituting proceedings in a PoHce Court. The 
first is on a complaint being made by any person to a Police Court 
that an offence has been committed over which the Court has 
jurisdiction ; the second is, on a formal written report being made 
to a Police Court by a police ofl&cer to the like effect. Complaint 
is defined in the interpretation clause (section 3 a) to mean '' the 
** allegation made orally or in writing to a Police Magistrate with a 
** view to his taking action under the Code that some person, whether 
" known or unknown, has committed an offence." Was this 
present case instituted on a complaint ? The appellant did not 
go to the PoUce Court to make any allegation, either orally or in 
writing, to a Police Magistrate. What happened was this. He 
went to the Slave Island police station and told his story to the 
police sergeant on duty, charging the accused with an offence within 
the jurisdiction of the Pohce Court of Colombo. The sergeant did not 
refer him to the Police Court of Colombo, as he might have done but he 
adopted the charge made by the appellant and made a formal written 
report to the Colombo Police Court. It is clear from this that the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 328 ) 

1896. prosecution is not one instituted on a complaint, but that it was a 
March 4, prosecution instituted on a formal written report by a police 
BoNSBB, C.J. sergeant. That being so, the Police Magistrate had no jurisdiction 
to order the appellant to make compensation to the accused. 

Then, as to Crown costs, the 3rd sub-section of section 236 provides 
that " if in any case inquired into or tried before a Police Magistrate 
" under this chapter the complaint be not proceeded with within 
" such time as the Police Magistrate may deem reasonable, or if 
" the complaint is declared by the Police Magistrate to have been 
" frivolous or vexatious, it shall be lawful for such Police Magistrate 
" to make an order for the complainant to pay by way of Cro\*Ti 
** costs a sum not exceeding Rs. 5," &c. 

Now, we have seen already that this appellant made no complaint 
but that the prosecution was commenced on the formal written 
report of the police officer. If anybody was the complainant, 
it was the police sergeant ; and if anybody should have been called 
upon to pay costs, it was the police sergeant, who rushed into Court 
with a case which the Magistrate declared to be frivolous and 
vexatious. The reason why the order to pay compensation to 
accused is restricted to cases instituted on complaint, is obvious. 
It was not thought necessary to deal with cases instituted on formal 
police reports, because it was assumed that the police would not 
institute cases without having previously made due inquiry and 
satisfied themselves that there was a real, substantial case which 
ought to be dealt with by a Police Court. If the result of the inquiry 
made by the police is to leave room for doubt, whether the case is 
not a frivolous one, they should refer the informant to the Police 
Court, and not take upon themselves the responsibility of instituting 
a case of the bona fides hnd merits of which they are not satisfied. 

The order must be discharged. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 329 ) 



PIERIS APPXJHAMI v, BOTEJU. 1896. 

June28and 
D. C, Colombo, Cl2482. July 19. 

Ordinance 6 of 1877, 8S. 31, 32'-CeHificate of tide— Effect thereof— Setting 

aside such certificate — Necessity for entry of name of administrator 

instead of his intestate — Ordinance No. 14 of 1891, s. 26. 

The object of a certificate of title granted under section 31 of 
Ordinance No. 6 of 1877 is to make it, unless and until it is 
impeached by an action under section 32 thereof, conclusive 
evidence of the title of the holder of such certificate to the land 
referred to therein ; and the certificate is a bar to the assertion 
by any one of any claim to such land, which arose or adeemed 
prior to the date of the certificate, and which might have been 
registered ; and it is a bar to the claims of persons as well in as 
out of possession of the premises. 

Any one seeking to set aside such certificate need not resort to a 
separate CK^tion, but that object may be gained by means of a claim 
in reconvention under section 32 of the Ordinance, in an action 
alreeuly filed against him. 

Every administrator should get himself placed on the register 
kept omder Ordinance No. 5 of 1877, as reqmred by section 26 
of Ordinance No. 14 of 1891, in place of his intestate, and his 
failure to do so will, under section 31 of Ordinance No. 5 of 1877, 
operate ss a bar to any claim by him as administrator. 

Cassim v, Marikar {1 S. C, R. 185) questioned. 

^MHE facts of the case are set forth in the judgment of his Lord- 
-^ ship the Chief Justice. It was argued in appeal on 28th 
June, 1895. 

Domhorst, for appellant. 

Pereira, for respondent. 

Cur. adv. tmU. 

19th July, 1895. Bonsbb, C.J.— 

In this case we have to determine the effect of a certificate of 
title given under Ordinance No. 5 of 1877. 

The plaintiff, who is the holder of a certificate of title of the 
second class to 3-28ths of a certain field, sues the defendant, alleging 
that he has been ousted therefrom, and prays for a declaration 
that he is the owner, and that he may be placed in possession of 
the share, and for damages. 

The defendant, by his answer, alleges title in himself. He says 
that the plaintiff derives title from his father, Johanis Pieris, by 
inheritance, and that such title was and is a defeasible title, 
subject to any disposition of the said lands to be made by the 
duly appointed legal representative of the said Johanis Pieris. 

He further alleges that Johanis Pieris died intestate on the 6th 
April, 1888, and that Misso, who was appointed administrator, sold 
and on the 16th of June, 1892, conveyed to the defendant 26-28th8 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 330 ) 

1896. of the said land, being all the interest of the said Johanis Piem 

June 2S and therein, and has claimed in reconvention that, in terms of section 
July 19. 
32 of Ordinance No. 5 of 1877, he should be declared the lawful 

BoN8BB,C J. owner of the share as against the plaintiff. It appears that Misao 

was appointed administrator on the 2nd January, 1891, and the 

certificate dated the 10th March, 1892, states that the plaintiff was 

registered as owner on the 5th October, 1891. 

The Acting District Judge gave judgment for the plaintiff for 
possession only, and the defendant has appealed. 

The question is, what is the effect of registration ? 

The 31st section of the Ordinance provides that " every certificate 
" of ownership shall have the effect of absolutely barring all claims 
*' to the land therein mentioned, or to any right or interest thereto 
'* or therein which shall have arisen or accrued prior to the date of 
'* such certificate, and which might have been registered under the 
** provisions of this Ordinance, but which at the date of such 
" certificate had not been so registered, save and except as is 
" excepted by the following section." The following section pro- 
vides that persons having or claiming to have any right, title, or 
interest in or to any land against the holder of a certificate of the 
second class shall be entitled to prosecute their claim by action 
within four years of the date of the certificate, and that, if such 
action be decided against the holder of the certificate and in favour 
of any party, that party shall be entitled to have a certificate, 
but that no such action shall prevent any claims being barred, 
unless written notice of such action shall be previously given to 
the registrar. 

Section 35 provides that the holder of a certificate of the second 
class, if within four years from its date the registrar has received 
no notice of action, shall be entitled to a certificate of the first class. 

In this case the defendant had got into possession of the land, 
and the plaintiff seeks to eject him on proof of his own title. 

It was argued on behalf of the defendant that section 31 only 
barred claims of persons out of possession, and did not apply to a 
case like the present, where the claimant had managed to get into 
possession ; but this, in my opinion, is not a fair reading of the 
section. Having regard to the inquiries which have to be made, 
and the notices which have to be given before the certificates of 
title are granted, and to the fact that the Ordinance contemplates 
a sort of judicial settlement of all claims within the district ia 
which it is brought into force, I am of opinion that the intention 
was to make the certificate, unless and until it was impeached by 
an action brought under section 32, conclusive evidence of th© 
title of the holder, and to prevent any claim being a^i^erted in any 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 331 ) 

way to the land which arcNse or accrued prior to the date of the 1®^^- 
certificate, and which might have been registered. The defendant ^^^J^^^ 

claims by the conveyance from the administrator, Misso, of the 

6th June, 1892. Then the question arises,— had Misso, at the date Bonsbr.C.J. 
of the certificate, such a right or interest in the land as might have 
been registered under the Ordinance ? 

The right of an administrator in resi)ect of land has been much 
discussed. 

It was suggested in a recent case that his position with regard 
to land differs altogether from that of an English administrator 
with regard to his intestate's chattels real, and that he has only a 
limited estate in them — an estate sufficient for administration and 
limited thereto ; and it was said that, subject to the exercise of 
that power, the land devolves on the heirs direct, not as in England 
through the medium of the administrator (Caasim v. Marikar, 
1 S. C, R. 185). For my own part, I cannot understand the nature 
of such a limited estate. I know of nothing like it in English 
law. 

But whether that view be correct or incorrect, it can hardly be 
maintained since Ordinance No. 8 of 1863, that an administrator 
has not such an interest in his intestate's lands as is capable of 
registration. 

Section 38 of that Ordinance requires every grant of adminis- 
tration effecting any land to be registered. 

More recently Ordinance No. 14 of 1891, section 16, specially 
requires every grant of administration affecting any land to be 
registered in the books kept under Ordinance No. 5 of 1877, and 
section 26 of the same Ordinance provides that " on the death of a 
" registered owner, all lands belonging to him shall remain in his 
" name until probate or administration of his estate shall have been 
** granted, whereupon, and upon a written application on that 
** behalf, the name of the executor or administrator shall be regis- 
" tered in the books until a partition, transfer, or alienation of 
" the land shall have been effected, whereupon such partition, 
" transfer, or alienation shall be registered." 

These provisions do not appear to have been brought to the 
notice of the learned Judges who decided Casaim v. Marikar, 

It was the duty, therefore, of the administrator to get himself 
placed on the register in the stead of his intestate. 

As he did not do this, his claim was barred under section 31 by 
the plaintiff's certificate of ownership, and the defendant who 
claims through him can be in no better position. 

But the defendant has claimed in reconvention the benefit of 
section 32 of the Ordinance No. 5 of 1877. It was suggested in 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 332 ) 

1896. argument that the certificate could onjy be set aside in an inde- 

"^^j^hfiQ^^ pendent action, but I am of opinion that this is not so, and that it is 

— ^ ' competent for a defendant to do as this defendant has done. But 

BoNSBR.CJ. before the action or claim in reconvention can be of any avail, 

notice must be given to the registrar. The word " previously" 

cannot mean ** previously to action brought," for in seotion 35 tiie 

notice is referred to as being '' notice of an action having been 

" commenced." The words '* unless written notice of such action 

shall have been previously given to the registrar" mean " unless and 

'' until written notice of such action shall have been given to the 

*' registrar." 

If the r^;istrar has no notice of any action to set aside the second 
class certificate before four years have elapsed, he will proceed 
to give the holder a first class certificate. In my opinion, therefore, 
it not having been proved that notice of this claim in reconvmtion 
had been given to the registrar before the date of trial, the plaintiff 
was entitled to a decree in his favour. 

Under all the circumstances, however, I think that the proper 
order to make in this appeal will be to send the case back to the 
District Court with directions to try the cross claim. If the 
defendant proves a good title and notice of action giv^i to the 
registrar, he will be entitled to succeed, but he must pay the coats 
of the action in any event, and the costs of this appeal. 

Beownb, A.J. — I agree. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 333 ) 

VELAPPA CHETTY v, MEYDIN. ^^^*- 

December 6, 

D. C, Chilaw, 1,268. 10, and 16. 

Procedure — Motion to take plaint off the file — Action raised by attorney of 
pkMUiff--power of attorney not duly stamped at time of filing 
action — Defect cured on the day such motion was made — Bona fides 
of agent — Stamp Ordinance No. 3 of 1890, 8. 31 — CivU Proce- 
dure Code, 8. 25 — Action on promissory note — Right to demand 
particulars of admitted payments. 

Where defendcmt moved that plaint be taken off the file, as the 
agent who brought the eustion in the name of his principal did not 
appear to be authorized by a properly stamped power of attorney, 
and on the day of the discussion of the motion the defect wew 
cured, — 

Held, that it was wrong to order the plaint to be taken off the 
file and restored again to it as from the date on which the defect 
was cured, inasmuch as the Ordinance No. 3 of 1890, section 
31, rendered such powers valid as from the date of its execution, 
and the agent seemed to act bond fide. 

In an action on a promissory note it is not usual to deliver 
pcu^iculars of payments euimitted by plaintiff, where the note 
does not appear ex facie to be barred. 



T 



HE circumstances under which the plaintiff appealed in this 
ease are fully stated in the judgment of the Supreme Court. 



The argument took place on the 6th and 10th December, 1895. 

Layardj A.-G. (with him Sampayo), for appellant. 
Dornhorst and Jayawardana, for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 
16th December, 18d5. Withbbs, J.— 

Two orders are appealed from in this case. The more important, 
one is that of the 17th October last, directing ** the plaint to be 
" taken off the file and again restored as from this date, plaintiff 
" bearing all costs so far incurred." 

This order was made under the following circumstances : -- 

On the 15th August an action was instituted against the defendant 
respondent on his promissory note dated the 19th day of September, 
1889, for Rs. 1,000 and interest. 

It was instituted by the presentment of a plaint in the name of 
Kolentha Velan Chetty (one of the payees of the note) by his 
attorney Velappa Chetty. 

The plaint was entertained and filed. It was duly stamped, 
and it contained the requisite particulars (except the place of 
residence of the plaintiff, which was afterwards supplied). It 
was presented by a proctor on the plaintiff's behalf, and signed by 
the proctor. ^ g.,.^^^ ^^ GoOglc 



( 334 ) 

1896. A copy of the plaintiff's agent's power, certified by a proctor, 

^>^oeii^r 6, was filed with the plaint, at the foot of which it is noted as a docu- 
' ' ment produced with the plaint. 

' * Summons was issued for the defendant to appear and answer 
on the 3rd October. The defendant by his proctor appeared the 
previous day and called for the original power. He also moved 
that the plaint should be returned for amendment, the name of 
the plaintiff's place of residence not being mentioned in the plaint. 

This motion was discussed on the 3rd, and the plaint was returned 
for amendment, the 10th October being appointed (I suppose) for 
the answer. 

On that day, however, no answer was put in, but a motion was 
apparently made (though I can find no memorandum in writing 
of it) for further time to file answer. The entry in the journal is : 
** Counsel present ; time to file answer allowed till plainti£F gives 
" details of payments admitted by him," which is followed by a 
formal order. 

(This is the other order appealed from, and I shall deal with it 
presently.) 

On the 14th October defendant's proctor steps in with another 
motion that the plaint be taken off the file, with coats to be paid 
by the plaintiff's agent, on the ground that the original power of 
attorney executed in India was not duly stamped according to 
the requirements of the local statute. 

The document was in fact at the time not duly stamped for 
use in this Colony, but by the 17th October it was duly stamped. 

So rectified it was produced to the Court that day, and then the 
Court made the order first referred to, namely, that the plaint be 
taken off the file and restored as from the 17th, and that plaintiff 
do bear all costs incurred so far. 

The Judge thought the plaint bad on account of the defect in 
the power of attorney on the date of presentation. So he said 
in effect this : — Had I known the imperfection of the power of 
attorney under which the plaint was presented and filed, I should 
have rejected it. I do now what I should have done then. I put 
matters in stcUu quo. I will now entertain it as the power of 
attorney is effectual for use in the Colony, but the action must be 
considered as instituted from this date, the 17th October. 

Was the Judge right in making this order ? 

Mr. Attorney- General argued that he was not. 

The 3l8t section of the Stamp Ordinance, No. 3 of 1890, rendered 
the power of attorney valid as from the date of execution. It 
was consequently vahd when the plaint was presented on the 



( 335 ) 

16th August. Hence the Judge had no power to reject the plaint 1896. 

on the 17th October, and so alter the date of institution of the ^fJ^^^A' 

action. He distinguished it from the Badulla case (72, D. C, * 

BaduUa, 3ath May, 1896), where the plaint was returned for amend- Withkba, J. 
ment because there the defect was in the constitution of the 
plaintiff's case. 

There the plaintiff had claimed a right which he had not valued 
(a most requisite particular), whether regard be had to the 
stamp to be imposed on the pleading or to the interest of the 
defendant, who is entitled to know what value his opponent puts 
on a right he claimed. 

That case could not go on till the plaint was amended in that 
particular. In the Badulla case the defect was a substantive one. 
In this an adjective one. We were pressed by Mr. Domhorst 
to follow the principle in that case. 

Had the Judge known the power of attorney to be ineffectual 
for local use for want of being stamped according to local law, he 
(it is conceded) would not have accepted the plaint at all. There- 
fore he can only entertain it when the document authorizing the 
institution of the action is put in order. 

The CJode does not provide for a case of the kind. The plaint 
oould not well be returned for amendment, for the power was no 
part of the pleadings. It could only be rejected as unauthorized 
by a duly stamped power. 

But if, after allowing the plaint to be filed, would the Judge 
h^ve necessarily rejected it on discovering that the power of 
attorney was not duly stamped ? He would not have received it 
if he had known of the defect, but, having entertained the plaint, 
would he have necessarily rejected it proprio motu on discovering 
the defect ? 

I think it would depend on the circumstaaces of the case. If 
the person presenting the plaint was not bond fide acting as the 
agent of the principal under the defective power, he would reject it. 

But might he not, if the proceedings are otherwise in order, 
say : I will not let summons go out, or the defendant shall not be 
required to answer unless within a given time the document is 
put in order ; and if this is not done within the time fixed I shall 
reject the plaint altogether. 

It has not been usual, so far as I can find, to order a pleading to 
be " taken off the file" when the proceedings are unauthorized. 
In the English Equity cases an opportunity is given to perfect 
the authority, if possible. 

Mr. Domhorst laid special stress on the 26th section of the 
Civil Procedure Code, which enacted that when a recognized agent (^ooolp 

igi e y g 



( 336 ) 

^^^^' presents his plaiut he shall file with it the original power of 

w^"^ifi' attorney or a properly certified copy of it. He did not do so here» 

' it was urged, because his copy was but waste paper. 

Withers J 

Still it was a certified copy, and he did produce it with the plaint, 

and by the backward operation of the 31st section of Chdinanoe 

No. 3 of 1890 it was rendered good at the date of presentation. 

It may be, as it is here, of great importance to a plaintiff what 
the date of instituting his action is. Even if the Judge had a 
discretion to do as he has done, I think it was not well exercised. 
The agent was acting in good faith all through for the plaintiff, bis 
principal. He instituted the plaint as his agent, and his authority, 
if suspended by the defect of his stamped document, was rendered 
valid by the defect having been cured as from the date of his 
written authority. 

The course taken by the Judge was to cause a fresh action to 
be instituted on the 17th October, and to dismiss the old plaint. 

The conclusion I come to is that tins course was not warranted 
by the circumstances of the case, and I would reverse the order. 

The order to adjourn the answer till delivery of particulars as 
to the alleged payment of interest was wrong. It is not usual to 
deliver particulars in actions on promissory notes. The allegation 
that interest had been paid was not material to the plaint as 
instituted in August. It would be very material if the plaint had 
been instituted on the 17th October, for the note sued on would be 
barred on the face of it. 

Both orders should, in my opuxion, be reversed with costs. 

The defendant should be required to answer within one week 
of the record being received by the lower Court. 



Browne, A.J. — 

I quite agree with my brother's view that the particular action 
to be taken, or order made in each case must depend upon the 
special facts of the proceedings in that action. Very possibly had 
the defendant here called for inspection of the power of attorney 
ere he moved for details of payments, or took any steps whatever 
in the action, he would have succeeded in having had the plaint 
rejected as having been improperly presented when there was no 
authority of existing local validity, and improperly received by 
reason of such unknown defect. He had all the more occasion 
to make such a motion in that, according to the journal entry, not 
even the copy of the power was filed with the plaint, although 
the schedule to the plaint states it was produced with the plaint. 



{ 337 ) 

He, however, both called for particulars, and moved only that 
the plaint be returned for amendment. The result of his action 
was that plaintiff was enabled to produce — ^first the copy, and 
subsequently the original ; and even before he exhibited the latter 
to have it stamped as soon as the absence of the Ceylon stamp was 
brought to his notice by the surmise of the defence that there 
was this defect. Defendant has so facilitated all this being done 
that I regard the position of affairs here as analogous to that 
contemplated by section 34 of Ordinance No. 3 of 1890, and that 
the learned IHstrict Judge, had the power been still unstamped 
in Ceylon when produced, should have ordered only a stay of 
the proceedings until it should be stamped. 

A fortiori, therefore, as it had been stamped ere he had to make 
order on the motion of the 14th October, he should have refused 
the motion, but might have allowed defendant his costs thereof 
if the latter had been duly diligent and had acted in no spirit of 
mere delay or evasion of liability. 

I agree in the proposed order. 



1895* 

DecmberS, 
10, and 1^ 

BB0WN)i.» 

A.J. 



PIERIS V. LIVERA. 1894. 

December IS 
P. C, Colombo, 33,867. «2ii^- 

Arr<ick flavoured by drugs and apices — Ordinance No. 10 of 1844, s. 37, 
and Ordinance No. 23 of 1891, s. 10 — Removal vkthotU permit. 

The removal, without permit, of arrack which has been so 
highly impregnated or flavoured by drugs or spices that a distil- 
lation did not deprive the compound of their taste and flvour, 
and which was not proved 8U3 useful for medicinal purposes only, 
IB punishable under Ordinance No. 13 of 1891, section 10, and 
Ordinance No. 10 of 1844, section 37. 

nnHE accused in this case was convicted of the offence of removing 
-^ 7^ gallons of arrack from one place to another without a 
permit, in breach of section 10 of Ordinance No. 13 of 1891 and 
section 37 of Ordinance No. 10 of 1844. 

The defence set up was that no permit was required for medicated 
arrack. 

The Police Magistrate's judgment was as follows : — 

" In the present case the analysis proves that the compound in 
*' question was strong arrack in which various bitter and aromatic 
'' drugs had been steeped. There was no chemical change in the 
'' arrack, and Dr. Fernando says the mixture is perfectly fit to 
" drink. It would apparently fall more under the description 9(^oOQle 

Vol. I. 12(54)29 



( 338 ) 

18»4- " liquor mentioned in P. C, Kalutara, 62,334 (3 S. C. C. 44, 4S), 
^^J^J^ ^^ ** which was held to require a permit .... To allow such a 

" compound to escape the provisions of the Ordinance r^ulating 

'' the removal of arrack would have the effect of spreading drunken- 
'' ness widely among the people." 

He sentenced the accused to a iSne of Bs. 50, and ordered the 
confiscation of the arrack seized. 

On appeal, Wendt appeared for the accused, and Damhorsi for 
the complainant (the peon of the arrack farm of Colombo). 

Cur» adv, vuU, 

The conviction and sentence were affirmed in the following 
judgment of the Supreme Court : — 



20th December, 1894. Browne, A.J.— 

Accepting as true the evidence of the compounder of the liquor 
seized in this case, I find it is prepared by putting ordinary arrack 
distilled from the produce of the cocoanut palm, and purchased 
from the renter's godown, into a pot, steeping therein sixty kinds 
of herb for fifteen days, then distilling off the contents ; and next 
infusing in the re-distilled product- certain powders, as gallnut, for 
seven days, and then straining them off. The result thereof, 
according to the compounder, is that the original quantity in the 
pot is reduced by one-half, and is much stronger ; and according to 
the pubHc analyst that it was stronger than the best arrack, the 
percentages being, pure spirit 44*5 per cent., water 64 "5 per cent., 
drugs about 1 per cent., the drugs being held in solution. No 
chemical change or change of alcoholic power was effected in the 
arrack by the introduction of the drugs, which could be separated 
only by distillation. 

The liquor, however, did not taste or smell like arrack, but Kke 
a bitter alcoholic preparation. He re-distilled it, and it then smelt 
distinctly of arrack, and tasted of arrack flavoured with aromatio 
drugs, which were volatile, and were distilled with the liquor and 
not separated by this re-distillation, but could have been separated 
by repeated distillation. 

This evidence has failed to show me that this compound was 
new, and substantially different from arrack. It is not shown 
that in its preparation there were other substances, the solution 
whereof or the distillation wherefrom would add to the original 
arrack consisting of so much spirit and so much water, such other 
ingredients as would make a new compoun^ S{^^e|^ntially different. 



( 339 ) 

The result was only arrack so highly impregnated or flavoured 
by the drugs or spices, which in the inception of this process had 
been steeped in it, and blent with it by distillation of the arrack 
after their infusion, that one re-distillation thereafter did not 
deprive the compound of their taste and flavour. 

There is no proof that the compound was noxious, or even 
unpalatable, or could be used for medicinal purposes only, and the 
case therefore does not fall within such possible exceptions as 
were made in 3 8. 0. 0. 78. 

Affirmed. 



1894. 

December 13 
and 20. 

Browne, 
A.J. 



UKKURALA v. DAVID SINHO. 

P. C, Chilaw, 8,973, 

Ordinance No, 22 of 1890, a. 228 — Discharge of acctised upon absence of 
complainant — Illegality of subsequent trial and conviction. 

In a case triable summarily, after once discharging the accused 
owing to the absence of the complainant, it is not competent for 
the Police Magistrate, imder section 228 of Ordinance No. 22 of 
1890, to re-summon him, and after evidence heard to convict 
him. 

The original discharge should be treated as an acquittal, and once 
acquitted he could not be tried again. 

N appeal against a conviction, under the circumstances fuUy 
set forth in the judgment of the Supreme Court, — 



o 



Van Langenberg (with Jayawardena) appeared for appellant. 

9th December, 1895. Withbrs, J. — 

The conviction of the appellant of the offence of criminal trespass 
and theft of a bull must be quashed not because the verdict is 
wrong, but because the trial is fatally irregular. 

The prosecution charges the appellant with these offences on 
the 23rd August last, in a written complaint, which the Magistrate 
entertained. 

The accused was before the Court when the complaint was 
received and the particulars were explained to him. He denied 
the charge, made an explanation, and claimed to be tried. 

The 19th of the month following was appointed the day of 
trial, and the accused entered into a recognizance to appear on 
that day. He appeared on that day, but the complainant did not. 

The entry in the journal on that day, as signed by the Magistrate, 
is as follows : — ** Complainant absent ; accused present. Accused 
" discharged ; complainant fined Rs. 5, Crown costs, for not proceed 
'* ing with case. For October 7th." 



1896. 

December 4 
and 9. 



"Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 340 ) 

1896. Next day, it seems, the complainant came forward and excused 

^^^^^0^ ^ ^^® absence on the previous day, for the Magistrate remitted the 

' fine and directed summons to the accused requiring his attendance 

WiTHBBs. J. at the trial deferred to the 17th October. 

Now this, being a case on complaint of an offence summarily 
triable by the Magistrate, came strictly within the purview of 
section 228 of Ordinance No. 22 of 1890, which enacts : " If the 
'' summons has been issued on complaint, and upon the date 
" appointed for the appearance of the accused, or any day subae- 
" quent thereto, to which the hearing may be adjourned, the 
" complainant does not appear, the PoUce Magistrate shall, notwith- 
" standing anything hereinbefore contained, acquit the accused, 
" unless for some reason he thinks proper to adjourn the hearing 
" of the C8Lse to some other day." 

The Magistrate had only the alternative open to him of acquit- 
ting the accused, or adjourning the hearing of the case to acme 
other day for some reason he thought proper. 

He did not adjourn the case that day, but discharged the accused 
seeing no reason to adjourn the hearing of the case to some other 
day. He should have acquitted the accused, and I am bound to act 
as if the order which the law required had been made, and to 
treat the discharge as an acquittal. Once acquitted, the appellant 
could not be tried again, and hence this conviction cannot stand. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 341 ) 



SAXTON V. ANDI ei al. 1896. 

November 28 
P. C, MdtaU, 9,860. 

Appealable order — Criminal Procedure Code, 88, 414, 426 — Order made 
by Police Court under Ordinance No, 6 of 1891 — Appeal to 
enhance pundshtnent — Pouter of Supreme Court to enhance in 
appeal sentence passed. 

Per WiTHEBS, J. — "No appeal lies from axi order of the Police 
Court to have a greater punishment inflicted thcui the Magistrate 
has passed. And the Supreme Court has no power in appeal to 
enhance such punishment. 

T^HE facts connected with this appeal are set forth in the 
-*^ judgment of the Supreme Court. 

Tempter, A, 8.-0., for appellant. 

28th November, 1895. Withers, J.— 

In this case the Magistrate has convicted two persons, one of the 
offence of giving false evidence under section 180 of the Ceylon 
Penal Code, and the other of aiding and abetting him in that 
offence. 

No previous conviction having been proved against either of 
the accused, the Magistrate thought it a proper case to deal \idth 
under the provisions of the Ordinance No. 6 of 1891, and instead of 
sentencing either of the accused at once to punishment, he has 
directed them to be released on their entering into a recognizance 
to appear and receive sentence when called upon at any time 
during the period of six months, and in the meantime to keep the 
peace and be of good behaviour. 

The prosecutor has appealed from the order of the Magistrate 
on the ground that the judicial discretion has not been properly 
exercised. 

Mr. Templer, Acting Solicitor-General, who appeared to support 
the appeal, thought it proi)er to ask for my opinion, whether 
this is an appealable order. The object of the appeal is to have the 
sentence enhanced, and the question is, whether any one can 
appeal from an order of the Police Court to have a greater punish- 
ment inflicted than the Magistrate has thought proper to impose. 

My present opinion is that such an appeal does not lie. The 
414th section of the Criminal Procedure Code no doubt uses words 
which might be construed to include the alteration of a lesser 
sentence to a longer one. But that is not the view which I am at 
present prepared to take of it. I think I have said before, and ^ - t 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



18D5. 
November 28. 

WiTHBBfl, J. 



( 342 ) 

sitting alone I am prepared to repeat it, that if the Legislature had 
intended that this Court should have jurisdiction to pass a greater 
sentence than that passed in the Court below, that power would 
have been given in the clearest possible terms. The Indian Code 
of 1872, section 280, used these words : — " The Appeal Court, after 
" perusing the proceedings of the lower Court, and after hearing the 

''appellant may alter or reverse the finding and sentence 

** or order of such Court, and may, if it see reason to do so, enhance 
*' any punishment that has been awarded." 

There the power is given in clear and express terms, and such 
terms I find wanting in our Procedure Code. 

I must not omit to take notice of section 426 of the Criminal 
Procedure Code, which enacts that the Supreme Court in revision 
may call for a case for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the 
legality or propriety of any sentence or order passed thereon, but 
the Supreme Court in revision may only pass such sentence or order 
which it might have made had the case been brought before it in 
due course of appeal instead of by way of revision. 

Hence, if I brought this order up in revision, I do not see how I 
can interfere with the sentence so as to enhance it, even if I thought 
fit to do so, on which I offer no opinion. For these reasons I 
dismiss the appeal. 



1896. 

January 24 
and 31. 



MEERA SAIBO v. SAMARANAYAKA ei al. 
D. C.y Kandy, 94,630. 

Writ of execution against property — Commitment of jitdgment-debtor — CivU 
Procedure Code, aa, 224, 337, 347— Fatal irregularitiea. 

Where plaintiff petitioned in terms of section 347 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, after several years had elapsed between the date 
of the decree in his favour and the application for its execution, 
but suppressed the facts that he had made previous applications 
for execution of the decree and levies had been made on his writ, 
and, nevertheless, his application was allowed, — 

Ueld, that, in the absence of any evidence to satisfy the Court, as 
provided in section 337 of the Code, that in the last preceding 
application due diligence had been used t^o procure complete 
satisfaction of the decree, or that execution was stayed at the 
request of the judgment-debtor, leave to execute the decree should 
not have been granted. 

Writ against property having issued, and the Fiscal having made 
return thereto that the judgment-debtors neither complied with 
his requirement to pay nor pointed out property for aeizare, 
plaintiff moved for and obtained a warrant for the arrest of tiie 
judgment-debtor, and had him arrested and committed to prison. 

Digitized byVjOOQfC 



( 343 ) 

Held that, as the oixler allowing writ against property had 1896. 

improvide emanavit, the writ and the return thereto was unsound, January 24 
as also the warrant of arrest and the commitment of the defendant ^^ 5-'« 
to prison. ' 

De Silva v. Sella Umma, 2 S, C, R., 155, explained. 

n^HIS was an appeal from an order mcMle by the District Judge 
^ of Kandy on the 9th December, 1895, committing to civil 
imprisonment the appellant who had been arrested under a warrant 
against person in execution of a decree obtained against him on 
the 27th September, 1884. 

The facts of the case are fully set forth in the judgments given 
below : — 

Wendl, for appellant. 

Dornharst, for respondent. 

Cur. adv. wli. 

Withers, J. — 

On the 27th September, 1884, the appellant and another 
of the same name were decreed jointly and severally liable to pay 
the plaintiff a sum of Rs. 256 with interest till payment in full 
and costs. 

Writ against property issued thereupon, and on the 11th Nov- 
ember, 1884, two lands were sold, one for Rs. 46, bought by an 
outsider, and one for Rs. 20, bought by the plaintiff, who was 
fortunate enough to secure for Rs. 20 a land valued by the Fiscal's 
officer at Rs. 400, and for this he obtained an order of credit. 

On the 11th March, 1885, writ against property was allowed 
to re-issue, accompanied with writ against person, but writ against 
property was not taken out till the 6th August following, and no 
writ against person was taken out at all. 

No further steps towards execution was taken till the 22nd 
March, 1889, when plaintiff took out a rvle nisi on the judgment- 
debtor to show cause why judgment should not be revived to 
recover the balance. 

Here the plaintiff stopped and waited till the 4th May, 1891, 
when he applied for execution of the decree, of which notice was 
ordered to issue to the defendants, and the 26th May, 1891, was 
fixed for the hearing of the application. 

The defendants were both in default, and the plaintiff was 
allowed to take out execution. His application was meule after 
the Code had come into operation, but the petition required by the 
347th section of the Code did not contain the particulars required 
by the 224th section of the Code. 

I cannot find that plaintiff took advantage of the concession to 

issue writ. . 'C^r^r^n]o 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



( 344 ) 

1896. On the 31st January, 1895, he applied to the Court again for 

January 24 leave to execute his decree, but in his petition he suppressed a 

^ ^ ' very important particular, viz., (/) in section 224 of the Code, 

WiTHSRs, J. " whether any and what previous applications have been made 

" for execution of the decree, and with what result." 

The appellant did not appear on notice. His co-debtor appeared 
in person. The application was allowed ; but, looking at the strict 
provisions of the 337th section of the Code, that where one appli- 
cation to execute a decree has been made under the Code and 
granted, no subsequent application to execute the same decree 
shall be granted, unless the Court is satisfied that on the last preced- 
ing application due diligence was used to procure complete satis- 
faction of the decree, or that execution was stayed by the decree 
holder at the request of the judgment-debtor, I feel confident that 
the Judge was unaware of the application for execution and the 
grant in 1891. 

Writ was issued, and the Fiscal made return thereto on the 26th 
June, 1895, that his officer had repaired to the residence of the 
judgment-debtors and required them to pay the amount of the 
writ ; that neither complied with this requirement ; that neither 
pointed out property for seizure ; and that his officer was unable 
to find any property of either debtor, movable or immovable. 
Upon this return the plaintiff moved on the 10th July, 1895, for a 
warrant for the arrest of the judgment-debtor, and he was brought 
up and committed to prison. 

I think this order of committal cannot be sustained. In the 
first place the Fiscal's return upon which the commital is found 
was made in a writ of execution under an order which improvide 
emanavit. 

The order of the 7th March, 1895, was evidently made in ignorance 
of the application of the 4th May, 1891, to execute the uniatified 
decree, and the grant of that application on the 26th May, 1891. 

That order being unsound, the vmt and the return become 
unsound also. 

In the next place, I think that the Fiscal's return to the writ of 
execution mentioned in the 298th section of the Civil Procedure 
Code must be his return to the writ of execution originally issued. 

I would have our judgment in case of De SUva v. Sella Umma 
(2/Sf. C.I2. /55)soread. 

I would discharge the order of the 7th March, 1895, and the 
Older committing the appellant to prison. ^^^^^^^^^ ^y GoOgle 



( 345 ) 
3lBt January, 1896. Lawbtb, J. — 

The learned District Judge on the 5th of November, 1896, 
stated that he was satisfied that on the last preceding application 
due diligence was used to procure complete satisfaction of the 
decree, and he therefore granted the application for execution to 
re-issue against the person of the judgment-debtors. Against this 
finding and order no appeal was taken. On 28th November the 
second defendant was brought before the Court imder the warrant 
of arrest. 

His proctor then objected that the debtors could not legally be 
committed because more than ten years had expired since the 
date of the decree. 

The learned Judge repelled that objection, and directed the 
debtor to be committed. Against that order this appeal was 
taken. 

In this case a previous application to execute the decree had 
been made and granted under chapter XXII. of the Code. 

That fact distinguishes the present case from that reported in 
1 8. C R. 307, and brings it within the scope of the judgment in 
81,658, D. C, Kandy, referred to in the petition of appeal. 

It seems to me that the 337th section is applicable, and that 
section enacts that no subsequent application shall be granted 
after the expiration of ten years from the date of the decree sought 
to be enforced unless the judgment-creditor has by fraud and 
force prevented the execution of the decree at some time within 
ten years immediately before the date of application. The date 
of decree in this case was 27th September, 1884. 

The application for warrant against person was 10th July, 1895. 
More than ten years had elapsed. 

I am unable to agree with the reasoning of the learned District 
Judge, by which he has satisfied himself that the 337th section does 
not apply to warrants of arrest against person. It seems to 
me opposed to the spirit of the enactment, and indeed to its plain 
words, and in that I am confirmed by the judgment of this Court 
(Bonser, C.J., and Browne, A.P.J.) in the Kandy case already 
referred to. 

On this ground I am for setting aside the judgment under appeal. 



1806. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 346 ) 

MOHAMADU LEBBE v. UMMA NATCHIA. 
D. C, Kalviara, 1,134. 

Res judicata — AcUon by mortgagor against repreaentative of deceased 
mortgagee — CivU Procedure Code^ s, 642 — Effect of mortgage 
decree on such represenUaive — Personal claim of representaUve 
to land mortgaged by deceased. 

A mortgage decree in an action brought against the repre- 
sentative, appointed under section 642 of the Civil Pioeeduze 
Code, of a deceased mortgagee, will estop such representative 
from questioning the right of the mortgagor to mortgage the lands 
decreed executable. 

If the representative, who was the widow of the mortgagor, was 
entitled to the land in her own right, she should not have assumed 
the representative character imposed on her. 

Per Lawbie, J. — Under a decree passed in such an action no 
other land can be seized in execution than those named in the 
decree as a executable. 

TN a previous case plaintiff having sued the defendant, as 
-■- representative of the estate of her deceased husband, for the 
recovery of a sum of Rs. 353 and interest secured by a mortgage 
bond executed by her late husband, obtained a judgment declaring 
the mortgaged lands bound and executable for the said debt. On 
writ being issued, the FiBcal seized certain other lands in addition 
to the land tliat was mortgaged, and the defendant claimed these 
lands and one of the mortgaged lands as her own. The District 
Judge upheld her claim, and the plaintiff brought the present 
action against the defendant, under section 547 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, to have a declaration that the said lands were 
liable to be sold under the said writ. 

The District Judge dismissed the plaintiff's action, and the 
plaintiff appealed. 

Domhorst, for appellant. 

Peries, for respondent. 

11th February, 1886. Lawrib, J.— 

Meera Lebbe Marikar mortgaged some lands to the plaintiff ; 
after the mortgagor's death his widow was appointed to represent 
the estate of the deceased mortgagor for all the purposes of an 
action on the mortgage. 

The widow appeared and contested the mortgagee's claim, but 
her objection or defence, whatever it was, was repelled, and a 
mortgage decree was pronoimced. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 347 ) 

On writ on this decree some lands were seized, and the widow 1896. 

claimed these as her own by a title adverse to her late husband. «/«n. 31 and 

•^ Feb. 11. . 

The Court sustained the claim and released the property from ^^^^^ j 

seizure. 

The plaintiff then brought this action under section 547. One 
of the lands seized and claimed was a land mortgaged which had 
been declared bound and executable in the judgment against the 
defendant. 

It seems to me clear that she is bound by that judgment, and 
that the plaintiff is entitled to have the land sold. 

As to the other lands seized, which were hot mortgaged, the 
defendant is entitled to claim that these be excluded from the 
seizure. She does not represent the whole estate of the deceased ; 
assuming that these mortgaged lands belonged to the deceased, 
they can be touched only in a suit to which his general legal 
representative is a party. I need not enter on the question whether 
these unmortgaged lands belonged to the widow personally. It 
is enough that we decide that, under a decree passed in an action 
against a representative of the estate, appointed under section 642, 
no other land can be seized than those named in the decree ets 
executable. 

The judgment dismissing the action is set aside. The plaintiff 
is entitled to judgment declaring the mortgaged land executable, 
but his action, quoad the other lands, must be dismissed. I would 
give no costs, success being divided. 



WrrHBRS, J. — 

It seems to me that defendant cannot escape the consequences 
of taking up the appointment of administratrix of the deceased 
mortgagor's estate "for the purpose of this hypothecary action, and 
not limiting her defence — if it were possible to do so — to the 
existence and subsistence of the debt for which the specially 
hypothecated properties were secured by her deceased husband. 

She could easily have foimd out by inquiry the fact that her 
lands, as she claims them to be, had been secured by her husband 
without any right so to bind them, and she was not obliged to 
assume the representative character imposed on her. 

I fail to see how she can now be heard to say that the lands 
specially mortgaged by her late husband are not executable under the 
mortgage decree to which she was a party. 

I am therefore of opinion that the judgment should be modified 
in the manner proposed by my brother Lawrie. y^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 348 ) 

l»^ BABASURIYA i;. CHARLES et dL. 

October 18, 

D. C, Mdtara, 792. 

Conveyance of land — Validity of it, for want of deecrvption by metes and 

bounde — Evidence. 

A conveyance is not invalid for want of description of llUid by 
metes and bounds. Its identification and limits are provable 
by parol evidence. 

^pHE facts of this case appear in the judgment of the Chief 
^ Justice. 

SampayOy for appellant. 

Bawa, for respondent. 

18th October, 1895. Bonseb, C.J.— 

In this case the plaintiff seeks to recover possession from t^e 
first defendant of a piece of land. The first defendant stated 
that he was merely a lessee — he cited his lessor, who was accordingly 
brought in and made second defendant in order to assert his title 
to the land. 

The first defendant set up a claim to retain the land nntQ the 
plaintiff had paid him the value of certain improvements which he 
alleged he had made on the land. He would be entitled to this 
if the improvements were really made. Evidence was gone into, 
which, as usual, was conflicting. The District Judge has found 
that the first defendant made no improvements, and I do not see 
how we can disturb that finding. 

The second defendant disputes the title of the plaintiff. He 
says the land originally belonged to him, and was seized and sold 
by the Fiscal some eight years ago on a writ of execution against 
him, and purchased by the plaintiff. He contends that inasmuch 
as the Piscal's transfer did not give a description of the land by 
metes and bounds the conveyance was invalid, and passed nothing. 
Mr. Sampayo attempted to support that contention, and he boldly 
stated that it was law in this Colony that, unless a conveyance 
contained a full description of the property by metes and boimds, 
it was void. He admitted that in the case of wills it was different 
— a demise was good without such description. He could not point 
out to us any special enactment of the Legislature of this Colony 
which laid down any such law as this, nor could he refer us to any 
decision of this Court. He did refer to the Registration Ordinance, 
but that Ordinance has nothing to do with the validity of 
conveyances. . ^ . 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 349 ) 

It enacts that land specified in instruments which are registered ^895- 
are to be described in a particular manner. But non-registration Octch&^lB. 
does not make a deed void. This deed must be construed by the Bon8er,C.J. 
English Law of Evidence. The proposition asserted by Mr. Sam- 
payo .that oral evidence could never be used to identify property 
included in a conveyance is absolutely without foundation. It 
is difficult to conceive a case in which oral evidence will not be 
necessary even when the property has been fully described by 
metes and bounds. Such evidence cannot be admitted to contradict 
or vary a writing, but it is always admissible to explain a writing. 

Mr. Taylor, in his book on Evidence, section 1,082, states : 
'' It may be laid down as a board and distinct rule of law that 
" extrinsic evidence of every material fact which will enable the 
'* Court to ascertain the nature and qualities of the subject-matter 
" of the instrument, or, in other words, to identify the persons and 
" things to which the instrument refers, must of necessity be 
" received." Again, he says : " If an estate be conveyed by the 
** designation of Blackacre, parol evidence must be admitted to 
" show what property is known by that name." 

In the present case the conveyance was of a divided portion belong- 
ing to the judgment-debtor of a certain garden which is described. 
More than that, by reference to the plan which is attached to the 
deed it appears clearly what land was intended to be conveyed. 
The divided portion is denoted by the letter C, and is stated to be 
the property of the judgment-debtor. 

The appeal will be dismissed. 

WiTHEBS, J. — ^I quite agree. 

The defendant's attack on plaintiff's title on the ground of 
misdescription is a very disingenuous one, in my opinion. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 350 ) 

1894. VELLAYAPPA CHETTY v. SINNETAMBY e/ al. 

July 4. 

D. C, KururUgala, SUjM 420. 

Joint promiasory note — RigM to sue the personal legal representaitive of 

a deceased maker jointly with the surmving maker, 

A personal legal representative of a deceased maker of a joint 

promissory note cannot be sued jointly with the surviving maker. 

The only exception to this rule is the caae of a partnership, where 

recourse may be had stgainst the estate of a deceased partner. 

T^HE judgment of the Chief Justice recites fully the facts of 
^ this case. 

Wendt, for second and third defendants appellant. 

Domhorat, for respondent. 

4th July, 1894. Bonser, C.J.— 

This is an action on a promissory note, which was made by four 
persons in favour of the plaintiff. Three of these persons are 
dead, and the survivor is now sued, and with him four persons 
who are alleged to represent the estates of the deceased makers. 

The District Judge has given judgment for the plaintiff as against 
all the defendants, who are sued as representing the estates of 
two of the deceased makers ; and the question arises whether 
they could properly be sued in this action. The promissory note 
is a joint one, and not a joint and several one, and there is no 
question of partnership between the makers. Therefore, the sole 
point for decision is, whether a personal legal representative of 
a deceased maker of a joint promissory note can be sued jointly 
with the surviving maker. 

By the law of this Colony actions on promissory notes are governed 
by the law of England, and the law of England is perfectly clear. 
The law is stated clearly and concisely in Williams on Executors, 
7th edition, vol. 2, p. 1740, as follows : — " In the case of a joint 
*' contract, where several contracts on the same part, if one of the 
'' parties die his executor or administrator is at law discharged from 
" all liability, and the survivor or survivors alone can be sued. 
" And if all the parties are dead, the executors of the survivor is 
" alone liable." 

That being the law of England it must be applied to this action. 
The only exception to the rule is the case of a partnership, 
where recourse may be had against the estate of a deceased partner, 
but that exception does not apply to this case, and therefore this 
action was wrongly framed, and no relief can be had as against 
the appellants. Digitized by dOOgie 



( 361 ) 

The judgment of the District Ck)urt must be set aside with 1®^- 
regard to the present appellants. July 4. 

Under the circumstances of this case, the order will be that Bon816b,C.J. 
neither party shall get costs either in the District Court or in this 
Court. 

WiTHBRS, J, — I agree. 



MOHAMMADU LEBBE et al. v, KOREEN et al, 1893. 

^ ^ w ^ ^ ««. October 20 

D. C, Jaffna, 2,384. and 31. 

District Court — Jurisdiction to interfere in relig-ious dispuiea — Right of 
holder of religious office to rdief when dist^irbed in enjoyment of 
property aUached to such office, 

A District Court has no jurisdiction to interfere in the concerns of 
religious communities unless, in the rules which any religious 
community has made for its members in relation to the religious 
object which it has combined to maintain, a civil element enters, 
which brings the matter within the sphere of the civil jurisdiction 
of the courts. 

A holder of an office who has been duly appointed thereto by the 
religious community to which he belongs will be supported in the 
exercise of that office, if there is attached to it a« an incident 
some estate in tenure of or right to the possession and enjo3rment 
of movable or immovable property. 

^T^HIS was an appeal by the plaintiffs from a decree of dismissal. 
^ The facts of the case appear in the judgments of the Supreme 
Court. 

Domhorst appeared for plaintiff appellant. 

Cur, adv, tmft. 

31st October, 1893. Withbbs, J.— 

The plaintiffs claim to be joint officiating priests of a Moham- 
medan mosque known as Meydisen Pallivasal, and they allege 
that the defendants have interrupted them in the exercise of 
their office, and refuse to allow them to enter the mosque for the 
performance of the duties incumbent on them as such high priests, 
and to exercise the rights and enjoy the privileges of their office. 
After hearing some of the witnesses called for the plaintiff, the 
learned judge stopped the proceedings and dismissed the action 
on the ground that his Court had no jurisdiction to interfere 
in the concerns of religious communities. 

The plaintiffs appealed from this judgment. There was no 
appearance for the respondents. Digitized by vjOOQ 16 



October 20, 
and 31. 

WmOBBSv J. 



( 352 ) 

I think the proposition of law laid down by the learned District 
Judge requires some limitation. 

In a recent case reported in 1 8, C. R. 354, I had occasion to 
observe that a District Court has no jursidiction to interfere in 
the concerns of religious communities unless, in the rules which 
any religious community has made for its members in relation 
to the religious object which it has combined to maintain and 
support, a civil element enters, which brings the matter within the 
sphere of the civil jurisdiction of the courts. 

After giving illustrations of what I meant by the term civil 
element, I went on to observe that the holder of an office, who 
has been duly appointed thereto by the religious community to 
which he belongs, or who succeeds in due course of such office 
according to rules binding on the community, has been and will 
always be supported in the exercise of that office, if there is attached 
to it as an incident some estate in tenure of, or right to, the posses- 
sion and enjoyment of immovable or movable property. 

As at present advised, I adhere to that opinion, and, so thinking, 
I have no alternative to propose but that of remitting the case for 
further inquiry. 

Incident to the tenure of the offices alleged to be held by 
the plaintiffs, and the performance of duties required of the holders, 
is said to be the privilege of receiving and keeping fees paid 
(gratuitously no doubt) by those for whom services are duly per- 
formed — services connected with prayers, marriages, funerals, 
&o. Whether the plaintiffs or either of them will make out a case 
for redress, is another matter, but, having regard to precedent, 
I am of opinion that the plaintiffs should be allowed fully to put 
forward their case on such material as they may be advised to 
submit to the Court, and for this reason the judgment of the lower 
Court should be set aside* 



Bbownb, A.J. — 

On the 8th February, 1867, one Seku Meiyadin Muhammado 
Meiyadeen and the first defendant executed and granted what is 
termed a charitable donation deed of a certain land *' in older 
'' that all the Mussulmans who belong to and embrace the religioD 
" of the Prophet Mohamet, called Purukare Vedam, may, with 
" the grace of our Master Muheyadeen Abdul Cader reasonably 
** and in accordance with the religious rules conduct and observe 
** for ever, without any objection, all the penance and other rites 
** belonging to and mentioned in the religious rules." The deed 
contained no other words than these to designate any trust <x the 
manner of officers for its execution. Digitized by GoOQle 



( 353 ) 



In their plaint plaintiffs assert that a mosque was then built 
and dedicated by this deed '' as a place of worship for the use of 
'' the Muhammadan public, to be used and managed according to 
** the will of such of the said public as form the congregation of 
"the said mosque," and that at that time also one Sego Madar 
Lebbe was at a meeting of the said Muhammadan public 
appointed officiating priest of the said mosque, and held office 
until 1882. 



1898. 

October 20 
and SI. 

BBOwm» 
A.J. 



Plaintiffs then assert in brief that at a meeting of the said 
Muhammadan public held in May, 1882, at the grand mosque, 
apparently some other mosque, the first plaintiff was appointed 
officiating priest and to receive the profits of the office, and that 
at another later meeting held in 1886, second plaintiff was appointed 
joint officiating priest, and that they officiated '' in the prosecution 
" of the objects of the said dedication," and received the incomes 
and perquisites of their office untU the 26th June, 1892, when the 
defendants forcibly turned them out of the mosque and prevented 
them from performing their ceremonies and keep them deprived of 
the profitable user of the said office ; and that since such time second 
defendant has been wrongfully performing the ceremonies of the 
said priesthood, and both defendants have been receiving and enjoy- 
ing the perquisites of the said office : and the plaintiffs pray for a 
declaration of their right to officiate and to receive the incomes, 
emoluments, and profits ; their reinstatement ; the inhibition of 
defendants from resisting plaintiffs and from officiating and taking 
the emoluments ; and for damages and costs. 

The defendants deny that the plaintiffs were ever appointed 
priests of the mosque, which first defendant says he built and 
dedicated as a place of worship, always remaining manager thereof, 
and that he (he does not say when) appointed second defendant 
priest thereof. 



I agree with my brother that the District Judge should not 
have stopped hearing plaintiff's evidence, and that his statement 
that " a District Court has no jurisdiction to interfere in the con- 
" cems of religious communities " is too general. Courts will not 
interefere in purely ecclesiastical matters, such as a complaint that a 
Muhanmiadan priest refused to perform funeral services [R. (1867) 
240], or a question where a festival should, consistently with 
religion be celebrated (Morg. 51), or in a mere matter of church 
discipline (2, B. ds F., 67). But our own courts have, ere now, 
entertained and decided questions affecting such rights as to 
appoint a dean (3 Lor. 238) or priests [L. 31. sp. 17 (MuJmrmnadan) 
and 13 ; and 1866. 60 (Christian)] or to celebrate a festival 

Vol. I. 12(54)29 



30gle 



1803. 

October 20 
and 31. 

Browns, 
A.J. 



( 364 ) 

{Morg, 51) or rights to property, such as fabrics and ground 
and revenues which were not voluntary as offertories and fish rente 
(vide the last two cases cited). 

No doubt, so far as the case has as yet proceeded, the evidence of 
what emoluments the plaintiffs have received has tended to show 
them to be ot such a character that plaintiffs could not show any 
right to them, viz., such a right as they could enforce against the 
contributories thereof to insist upon their pa3mtient. But even if 
the right to officiate was not functuous of any actual pecuniary or 
other benefit to the priest, it may be a right in and for the exercise 
of which he may claim the protection of the courts, and these 
plaintiffs appear prima fficie to be entitled to call upon the courts 
to decide whether they are entitled to have the prayers of their 
plaint or any of them granted to them. I agree that the case must 
be remitted for further trial, and in the possibility thereof I may 
draw attention to the fact that some of the questions which seem 
possible on the pleadings in this ca.se, viz., as to who form the 
congregation of the mosque (assuming plaintiffs substantiate by 
proof all the averments of the first paragraph of their plaint), and 
what meeting thereof could validly elect a priest formed the subject 
of much discussion in the action 61,162. D. G. Colombo, deaHng 
with the trust created by the award of Mr. Lorensz made in 5,214, 
testamentary, of that Court, respecting the administration of the 
Cinnamon Gardens mosque, which followed upon the litigation of 
the action 53,373 of that Court. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 365 ) 



RAMALINGAM r. RAGUNATHA KURUKKAL. i^^^- 

October 10m 
SAMBANTAR, Claimant, 

D. C, Jaffna, 24,021. 

Appeal — Coats in daim inquify — s. 241 of the Civil Procedure Code — 
Revision, 

When in an investigation, under section 241 of the Civil Proce- 
dure Code, into a claun in execution the Court awards costs to the 
successful party, the order as to costs is not an appeedable one. 

Semble, per Curiam. — ^Where, in the case of a claim to land seized 
in execution, the execution-creditor had not p>ointed out thQ land 
for seizure, or taken any steps in the matter, before the seizure or 
after it, which might be held to be a ratification of the act of the 
Fiscal, and had taken no part in the proceedings at the inquiry, he 
ought not, if the claim is upheld, to be condemned in the claimant's 
costs. 



^T^HE facts of the case sufficiently appear in the judgment of 
-^ BONSBB, C.J. 

Bauxtj for plaintiff, appellant. 

10th October, 1895. Bonsbb, C.J.— 

In this case the appellant was a judgment-creditor. He got an 
execution against his debtor. The debtor, when the Fiscal went 
to execute the writ, pointed out property as his, which belonged 
to a third person who claimed the property, and the Fiscal reported 
the matter to the Court. The Court held a summary inquiry 
into the claim under section 241 after citing the judgment-creditor, 
the Fiscal, the judgment-debtor, and claimant to attend. The 
judgment-creditor attended, but, so far as we can see from the 
record, took no part whatever in the proceedings. He does not 
appear to have called any witnesses. The District Judge allowed 
the claim, but held that the judgment-creditor should pay the costs 
of the investigation. Against that order the judgment-creditor 
has appealed. It has been held that an order made under section 
244 is not an appealable order, but that the remedy is under section 
247, and if the .order, either admitting or disallowing the claim, 
is not an appealable order, I fail to see how any part of that 
order is appealable, as, for instance, the part dealing with the 
costs. Therefore, in my opinion, the appeal does not lie. K it 
be the fact that the appellant neither pointed out the land, nor 
took any steps in the matter, before the seizure or after the 
seizure, which might be held to be a ratification of the acts 
of the Fiscal, and if on the inquiry he took no part in the t 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



1895. 
OdoberlO. 

BONSBR» C.J. 



( 356 ) 

proceedings, I am of opinion that he ought not to be made to pay 
the costs. Therefore, the proper course will be to exercise our 
powers of revision, and to send the record back to the District 
Judge in order that he may make any remarks r^arding it that he 
may think proper to make, and that notice be given to all the 
parties who were present at that inquiry, including the Fiscal 
and execution-debtor, that we propose to take the matter up in 
revision. 



WiTHEBS, J. — ^I agree. 

Assuming that the Court is competent to make order as to costs 
in these claim inquiries, that must be included in the formal order 
drawn up by the Court at the conclusion of the inquiry ; for an order, 
like a decree, should state by what parties, and in what proportion, 
costs are to be paid. 

That being so, as it has been held that no appeal can be taken 
from an order under this chapter, it is plain that no appeal can 
be taken from that part of it which awards costs. 

As it appears from the presentation of the case to us, that the 
execution-creditor should not be made liable to pay costs of the 
claim, the order should be brought up in revision after notice to 
the Judge and the other parties concerned. 



1895. 

November 7. 



PALANIAPPA CHETTY v. GOMES ei al. 
D. C, CoUmbo, 3,430, 

CivU Procedure Code, ee. 337^49, 219, 298-~Seoond appUcaiionfor %mt 
— Due diligence. 

When a judgment-creditor issues writ against the property of the 
judgment-debtor, and the Fiscal reports that the judgment-debtor 
is not possessed of any property, it is the duty of the judgment- 
creditor to apply under section 219 of the Civil Procedure Code to 
have the debtor examined as to what property he is possessed of and 
what debts are due to him, or to have the debtor's person arrested 
under section 298 of the Code. If a judgment-creditor does not 
avail hhnself of either of these provisions, he cannot be said to have 
used due diligence to secure complete satisfaction of the decree, as 
contemplated by section 337 of the Code, and is not entitled to 
make a second application for execution of the decree. 

^"^HE facts of the case are sufficiently stated in the judgment of 

-^ WiTHBBS, J. 



Sampayo, for appellant. 
Jayewardene^ for respondent. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 367 ) 

7th November, 1896. Withers, J.— 180«- 

November 7. 
This appeal is against an order of the Acting District Judge, ^ ~~ 
Mr. Templer, refusing to allow the plaintiff, as execution-creditor, ' 

to execute a decree under section 337 of the Civil Procedure Code. 
He obtained a decree on the 14th December, 1892, and applied for 
a writ on the 19th of the same month. Writ against property was 
issued on the 12th February following. This matter came up 
before the Chief Justice and myself a short time ago, and we called 
for the FiscaFs return to that writ. When the return was exhibited, 
we found it to be no return at all, and the record was sent back to 
the District Court that the Fiscal might be directed to make a 
return conforming to the requirements of the Code. This amended 
return is before us now, and from it it appears that the Fiscal duly 
applied to the execution-debtor, in person, for the payment of the 
debt, and that the debtor failed to comply with the demand, and 
further failed to surrender any property when requested. It was 
open to the plaintiff-creditor in this case to have adopted two steps : 
one, which might have disclosed the seizable debts of his judgment- 
debtor ; and another, which probably would have compelled the 
payment of his debt. I refer to section 219 of the Civil Procedure 
Code as regards (he first step, and to taking out warrants against the 
person of the debtor under the provisions of section 298 of the Code 
as regards the other. 

Having failed to take either steps, the creditor was prima facie 
wanting in due diligence. But he attempts to excuse himself by 
saying that soon after the writ issued he came to some arrange- 
ment with the judgment-debtor by which the debt was to be paid 
off by instalments, and he declared that he has, from time to time, 
received money on account from his judgment-debtor, and it is for 
the balance of this unsatisfied judgment that he made application 
for a second issue of process. The judgment-debtor strenuously 
denies that he ever made any arrangements of the kind, or any of 
the pa3mtients on account of this claim. In his answering affidavit 
he says that judgment was recovered against him without any 
knowledge of these proceedings on his part, and he alleges that 
the note on which judgment was recovered was negotiated in breach 
of trust by the payee, one Arunasalam. 

With these conflicting affidavits before him, the Acting District 
Judge advised himself to treat the matters as if these were no 
affidavits at all, and I think he was justified in taking that course. 
It is clear that the appellant did not exercise due diligence in 
attempting to recover his judgment debt. Assuming, however, 
that this agreement w€ts entered into and that these payments 
were made, his conduct in this matter is open to these objections. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 358 ) 

1896. In the first place, he ought to have moved to recall the writ, and 
No vembe r 7, further he ought, under the provision of section 349, to have certified 
WTTHEBBf J. the pa3mtient8 to the Court from time to time. His having done 
neither the one nor the other leads me very strongly to suspect that 
the arrangement and these alleged payments are fictitious, prepared 
to procure his present application being granted, in view of the 
time that has elapsed between decree and his application to re-issue 
writ. 

A£Srmed with costs. 

Bbownb, J., concurred. 



1895. MUTTIAH CHETTY v. DE SILVA et al. 

Junelim 

Z). C, GWfe, 2,72L 

CorUract by minor — His UabUity on promissory note — Interest, how to be 
decreed — Civil Procedure Code^ s. 129 — Evidence of certificate of 
birth— Ordinance No. 18 of 1867, s. 27, 

Under the Roman-Dutch Law the fUius familias could not bind 
himself without the consent of his father, except with regard to 
certain kinds of property. If he contracted, his contracts would 
not bind him, although, if they were beneficial to the minor, the 
other party would be boimd (Cens. For. lib. 1, chapter I K,, section 6). 

A contract entered into with the authority of his father would 
bind the unemancipated minor, subject, however, to his right in 
certain cases, if the contract was a detrimental one, to apply to the 
Court for the remedy of restitutio in integrum. 

This remedy, however, is not available in cases where a minor 
practising a trade or profession incurred liabilities in the course 
thereof. 

Semble, per Bonseb, C.J. — ^Trading is not of itself sufiicient to 
^nancipate a fUitts familias so long as he lived under the father^s 
roof. Where a minor and his father, trading together, had granted 
a joint and several note stipulating for interest at the rate of 15 per 
cent. — 

Held (1), that the plea of minority is not open to the minor, as 
the note must be presumed to have been made with the consent of 
the father ; and (2) that the proper method of ordering interest in 
the decree is that interest should be calculated down to the date of 
the commencement of the action, and from thence to the date of 
the decree at the rate of 15 per cent., and a decree given for the 
aggregate amount made up of the principal and these two sums for 
interest, and from the date of the decree the interest should l>e 
given on the aggregate amount at the rate of 9 per cent. 

Semble, per Bonseb, C.J. — ^A certificate of birth given imder 
Ordinance No. 18 of 1867 is primd facie evidence, not only of the 
birth, but also of the date of birth. 

Letchiman CheUy v. Perera {4 S. G. O. 80) queried^ ^ ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 359 ) 

THE facts of this case are suflSciently stated in the judgment j^^^j^ 
of the Chief Justice. 

Sampayo, for appellant. 

Domhorst, for respondent. 



14th June, 1896. Bonsbb, C.J.-- 

This is an appeal from a judgment of Mr. Moysey, acting District 
Judge of Galle. The appellant was sued on a promissory note 
which he had made jointly and severally with his father who died 
after action brought, and the third defendant. He pleaded that at 
the time the note was made he was a minor, that is, was under the 
age of twenty-one years, which, by Ordinance 7 of 1865, has been 
fixed as the age of majority in this Island. It appears that he had 
been assisting his father in his business of boutique-keeper from the 
age of fourteen or fifteen onwards ; that the business was carried on 
under a firm name composed of his own and his father's names ; 
that he lived in his father's house and was unmarried ; and that the 
note was given for the purposes of the business. 

In support of the plea of minority he gave evidence that he 
was a minor at the date of the making of the note, and produced a 
cei*tificate of his birth given under Ordinance No. 18 of 1867. This 
certificate is not attached to the record, and we do not know what 
it contained, but I assume that it contained the particulars required 
by law, amongst which is the date of birth, and was otherwise in 
order. The Acting District Judge refused to admit this certificate 
in evidence on the ground that there was no independent evidence 
of the date of birth, and that therefore the certificate could not be 
received to prove that date, relying on Letchiman Chetty v. Perera 
(4 S. C, C. 80), 

In that case Clabbnob, J., is reported to have said : — " The 27th 
" clause of the Ordinance (Ordinance No. 18 of 1867) makes the 
" certificate evidence of the birth, but does not say that it is to be 
" evidence of the date of birth. This purports to be a birth which 
" happened several years before the passing of the Ordinance, 
" namely, in 1858, and the registration purports to have taken 
" place in 1869, upon the father's information. The Ordinance 
" has made the Registrar-General's certificate evidence of the 
" fact of birth, but I do not see that the Legislature has made it 
"evidence that the burth took place on the 3rd of September, 
" 1858. At any rate, in this case I am not disposed to accept 
"it as conclusive evidence that the birth ha])pened on that 
" date." 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 360 ) 

IWfi. DiAS, J., concurred, without giving a separate judgment. 

June 14, 

I must confess that I do not understand what would be the 



BOHSBB, C. J. 



object of making the certificate evidence of the fact of birth. That 
fact, I should have thought, was sufficiently evidenced by the 
existence of the person. It will be noted that the learned Judge 
declines to accept the certificate as condtmve evidence, while the 
Ordinance does not purport to do more than to make it prima fade 
evidence, and that he appears to rest his decision on the special 
facts of the case. If that case is to be understood as laying down 
the rule that a certificate of birth cannot in any case be regarded as 
prima facie evidence of the date of birth, I wish to state that I am 
not at present prepared to agree with it, and reserve my right to 
deal with it when the question arises for decision. 

But in the present case it is not necessary to determine the point, 
for, assuming that the appellant was under age when he made the 
note, I am of opinion that the plea of minority is no defence to this 
action. By the Roman law, a minor under the age of twenty-five 
years of age, but above the age of puberty, appears to have full l^al 
capacity of entering into any kind of contract, subject to its being 
rescinded by the Praetor, if it was unfair to the minor. 

The Dutch law, however, curtailed this freedom to a considerable 
extent. 

The fliuafamiliaa could not bind himself without the consent 
of his father, except with regard to certain* kinds of property. If 
he contracted, his contracts were not binding on him, though, if 
they were beneficial to the minor, the other party was bound. 
Van Leeuwen says : — Prseterea consiatit {patria potestas) in aiictorUate 
prsestanday sic ut fliuafamilia^ sine consensu pairis ne quiequam 
poUiceriy avi se contrahendo obligare, avJt in judicio cum quaquam 
experiri possit, nisi in castrensi peculio vel quasi, in quibus pro 
patribusfamUias habentur. {Cens, For, lib. 1, chapter IX., section J.) 

But a contract entered into with the authority of his father 
bound the unemancipated minor, subject, however, to his right in 
certain causes, if the contract was a detrimental one, to apply to the 
Court for the remedy of restitutio in integrum, i.e., rescission. 

This remedy, however, was not given in cases where the minor 
practising a trade or profession incurred Uabilities in the course 
thereof, for the imperitia negotiorum, which was the foundation 
of thLs relief, was considered to be wanting in such cases (See Van 
liCeuwen, Cens. For. lib. 4, chapter XLIII., sections 4 and 5 ; Voet, 
4, 4, SI). 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 361 ) 

In the present case the promissory note was undoubtedly made IS^S^ 
with the consent of the appellant's father, for he was a joint maker, J ^^ 1 ^- 
and I am therefore of opinion that it was binding on the appellant. Bonsbb, C. J. 
It was suggested that the appellant had become emancipated by 
reason of his being engaged in trade with the assent of his father ; 
but I doubt whether, in the circumstances of this case, he was 
emancipated ; for I gather that, according to Roman-Dutch law, 
trading was not by itself sufficient for this purpose so long as the 
filiiLS familias Hved under his father's roof (see Qrotius, Intro. 7, 6, 
4 ; Cens. For. lib. I, chapter IX., sections 11 and 15 ; Voet, 1, 7, 12). 

The decree, however, should be varied. The promissory note 
was for Rs. 3,000, with interest at 15 per cent. The decree orders the 
appellant and the other defendant to pay the plaintiff the sum of 
i Rs. 3,000, " with interest thereon at the rate of 15 per cent, per 
" annum from the 19th of August, 1893 (the date of the note), until 
" payment in full." The interest ought to have been calculated 
down to the date of the commencement of the action, and from 
thence to the date of the decree at the rate of 15 per cent., and a 
decree given for the aggregate amount made up of the principal and 
these two sums for interest. From the date of the decree the interest 
should have been given on that aggregate amount, and not on the 
original principal sum of Rs. 3,000, and that not at the rate of 15 
per cent., but of 9 per cent., which is the CJourt rate of interest. 
The words " such rate " in section 192 of the Civil Procedure Code 
may I think be fairly taken to mean " such last-mentioned rate." 
The original debt is merged in the decree and no longer exists, and no 
rate was agreed upon by the promissory note as to interest on the 
decree. 

The decree should, therefore, be amended by substituting for 
the sum of Rs. 3,000 the sum which represents the aggregate amount 
above referred to, and substituting for the words " at the rate of 
" 15 per cent, per annum from 19th of August, 1893, until pajmaent 
" in full " the words " on such aggregate sum of Rs. 3,459 at the 
" rate of 9 per cent, per anniun from the 27th August, 1894, until 
" payment." 

I wish to say, in conclusion, that I have assumed that the 
appellant had attained his majority at the date of action brought. 
If he should be able to establish the contrary, this judgment 
will not preclude him from making an application under section 
480 of the Civil Procedure Code to have the proceedings set aside. 



Bbownb, A.J. — 

As in the view I take of the case it is not necessary to determine 
the effect of any certificate of registration of birth, and as the 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 362 ) 

1806. certificate tendered in this case is not in the record, I agree that 

J une 1 4. ijjijg question, considered with different results of opinions thereon 

Browns, in 4 8. C, C. 80 and 3 8. C, R. 82, should await further decision 

^''^' hereafter when necessary. 

Assuming on behalf of the appellant that he adduced sufficient 
primd facie proof to establish in his favour the first issue, that 
he was a minor when he made and granted the promissory note 
sued upon, I hold on the second issue that he is liable upon it on his 
own showing for the reasons stated in Voet 4, 4, 51, I r^ard the 
principles there stated as altogether independent of the consider- 
ations of seoraim a patre and sejuncta filii a poire habitationey which 
attach to all acts mentioned in lib, 1, 7, 72, as indicative of emanci- 
pation from the patriu potesiaSy and hold that the public profession 
of business, skill, and knowledge entails the liability for aU 
transactions therein, whether the minor's father had knowledge, 
and gave consent thereto or not. I agree also that the decree 
should be amended as regards computation of interest in the manner 
suggested by my Lord. 



1896. PERIS et al. v. PERERA et al. 

Mw/ 1 D. C, Colombo, 4,98 J jC, 

Partition — Ordinance No. 10 of 1863, 88, 4, 6, 9 — Interlocutory judgment 

in auction for partition — Fined decree, effect of — Duty of Court in 

partition suits — Proof of title of co-owners — Adding parties — 

— Proceeding where all co-oumers cannot be ascertained. 

The effect of section 9 of Ordinance No. 10 of 1863 is to give 

persons taking title under the decree in an action for partition under 

that Ordinance a title good against the true owner, but the decree 

referred to in that section is not the interlocutory decree of partition 

under section 4, but the final judgment under section 6 awarding 

shares in severalty, and entered after receipt of the return of the 

commission for partition. 

The Court should not regard a partition suit as one to be decided 
merely on issues raised by and between the parties, and it ought not 
to make a decree, unless it is perfectly satisfied that the persons in 
whose favour the decree is asked for are entitled to the property 
sought to be partitioned. 

After the Court is satisfied that the plaintiff has made out his title 
to the share claimed by him, it should direct inquiries to be made 
whether all the p€u*tie8 interested in the land are parties to the 
action, or have been served with notice, and, on being satisfied on 
these points, order a partition or sale. 

If all the parties cannot be found, the Coiuii may allot severally 
the shares of the persons who have proved their righjbs to them, and 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 363 ) 

may sell the remainder of the land, retainmg the balance of the 1896. 

purchaae money, after pa3nnent thereout of a proportionate share April 1 ami 

of the costs of the action, imtil the owners come forward and prove ^oy 8, 

their title to it. ^*~ 

Dictum of Phibab, C.J., in Assena Marikar v, Umdm Lebbe, I 
8. C. 0. 19f disapproved. 

Per BoKSEB, C.J, — (1) The District Judge should take care that 
the inquiry in a partition suit is not a perfunctory one. It is only 
after he is reasonably satisfied that all the owners who can be found 
are parties to the action, using, if necessary for the purpose, the 
power given him by section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code, that he 
should make his decree declaring that the parties are entitled to 
certain shares, and directing a partition or sale, as the case may be. 

(2) An interlocutory decree for partition under section 4 of the 
Ordinance, unless proceeded with, is useless for any purpose. It 
could not even support a plea of res judicata. Where such an inter- 
locutory decree has been made, and not proceeded with, section 402 
of the Civil Procedure Code should be applied by the Court, and its 
rolls cleared of the action. 

Per WiTKEBS, J. — Claimants of shares who may have h€id notice 
of the proceedings only when the commissioner heul taken steps to 
prepare his return should be let in, and their claims inquired into 
even if it should happen that they purport to modify the inter- 
locutory judgment as to the shares of the etctual parties to the 
record. After hearing the new claimants and the former parties, 
the Covirt may reform its interlocutory judgment. 

TDLAINTIFFS claimed an undivided three-fourths share of 
^ certain lands by right of inheritance from one Naide. They 
averred in their plaint that the defendants were entitled to the 
remaining fourth, and prayed for a partition of the lands between 
them and the defendants. The lands originally belonged to one 
Adohami and his wife Bancho. Adohami died leaving five children, 
two sons and three daughters ; and the plaintiffs averred that the 
two sons possessed the lands to the exclusion of the daughters. 
Naide was one of those two sons. Bancho gifted her half to Naide, 
and he and his brother Simitchi thus became entitled to the entirety 
of the lands in the proportion of three-fourths and one-fourth. 
Naide died leaving eight children, six daughters and two sons — to wit, 
the two plaintiffs ; and the plaintiffs alleged that they possessed the 
three-fourths share to which Naide was entitled to the exclusion of 
their sisters. The defendants, they averred, were, as the descen- 
dants of Simitchi, entitled to the remaining fourth. Certain added 
parties to the suit claimed a divided portion of the lands. The 
District Judge, after trial, rejected their claims, and decreed a 
partition as prayed for in the plaint. 

The added parties appealed. 

Damhorat and Jayewardene, for appellants. 

Wendi, for plaintiffs, respondents. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 364 ) 

1896. The case was first heard before Bonseb, C.J., and Lawbzb, J., 

May 8, ^^^ ^®* ^* down for re-hearing before the Full Court. 

Cur. adv. vuU. 

Their Lordships were of opinion that the descendants of the 
plaintiffs' paternal aunts, to wit, the three sisters of Naide, and 
the plaintiffs' own six sisters, should have had notice of this action ; 
and in remitting the case for further inquiries as to the persons 
interested in the lands and their respective shares, delivered the 
following judgments. 



8th May, 1896. Bonsbb, C.J.— 

I agree in the judgment which will be read by my brother Lawrie, 
but I desire to add a few observations on these actions communi 
dividundo for the assistance as well of the District Court to which 
this case is remitted, as of other inferior courts who may have to 
dispose of similar actions. The common law of this Island following 
the civil law, but therein differing from the English common law, 
held that nemo in communione compeUitur invitus detineri. Hence 
the actions famUiae erciscundes and communi dividundo, the former 
having application to the case of co-heirs and the latter to the case 
of co-owners who had become so otherwise than by inh^tance. 

In 1844 Ordinance No. 21 of that year was passed, which, after 
reciting that " the undivided possession of landed property is 
" productive of very injurious consequences to the inhabitants of 
** the Colony," proceeded to enact {inter alia) and declare that 
** when any landed property shaU belong in common to two or 
" more owners, it is and shall be competent to any one or more of 
" such owners to compel a partition of the said property, and for 
" that purpose to present an application to any District Court 
" having jurisdiction praying for a partition ; " thereupon the Court 
was to have power to issue a commission (section 10). The com- 
missioners were required to make a partition, and for that 
purpose to prepare a schedule " showing the name, situation, 
" extent, and estimated value of the said property ; the names of 
" the owners ; the nature and extent of their respective shares or 
" interests ; and the mode in which the commissioners propose that 
" such partition should be made." A copy of this return was to be 
given to each owner, and the original was to be returned to the 
Court with a survey (section 11). 

Within three months after the return of the commission a day 
was to be fixed on the motion of any party for deciding on the 
application for partition ; and if on that day the owners or tlieir 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 365 ) 

Fepreeentatives appeared, and no valid objection was made to the 1^96. 

retom ; and if any of them were absent and the Court was satisfied ^PJ^ ^ ^ 

that notice of the application had been given them, or if they could * 

not be found, then to the persons in actual possession of the property, Bonskr, O.J. 
the Court might decree a partition, and that decree was to be good 
and conclusive against all persons whatsoever (section 12). 

Provision . was also made for a sale in cases where a partition 
would be injurious or impossible (section 15). 

By Ordinance No. 11 of 1852, which recited that the provisions 
relating to the partition and sale of lands held in common had 
been found to be attended with inconvenience, and to be in some 
respects injurious to parties interested in such property, those 
provisions were repealed, and co-owners were remitted to their 
rights of partition under the common law. 

This state of things lasted until the passing of Ordinance No. 10 
of 1863, which now governs these actions. That Ordinance, after 
declaring the common law right of -co-owners to compel a partition 
or sale of the joint property, laid down a new procedure. The person 
desiring a partition or sale is to file a libel describing the property 
and specifying the names, residences, and interests of the co-owners, 
and the improvements made by them so far as known to him, and 
praying a partition or sale, as the case may be. A summons is 
then to issue to the parties named by the plaintiff, calling on them 
to appear and show cause why a partition or sale of the property 
should not be decreed ; and such summons is to be served on the 
defendants, or if any of them cannot be found, then on the person in 
possession ; or if there is no person in possession, then in such 
manner as the Court may direct. If the defendants make default, 
then the Court is to hear evidence in support of the plaintiff's title, 
and the extent of his share and of the title of the defendants, and 
the extent of their respective shares so far as may be practicable by 
any ez parte proceeding, and if the plaintiff's title is proved, to give 
judgment by default decreeing partition or sale. 

If the defendants appear and dispute the plaintiff's title, or claim 
larger shares than the plaintiff gives them, the Court is to examine 
the title of all the parties interested, and to decree a partition or 
sale. 

When the interlocutory decree for partition has been made, the 
Court may, on the application of any party to the suit, issue a 
commission to a commissioner or commissioners to make partition 
of the land, adjudging to each owner his proper share. The 
commissioners are in the presence of the parties to make the 
partition according to the ascertained proportions of the several /^^^^^T^ 

Digitized by VjOOv IL 



( 366 ) 

1896. owners, and make a return accompanied by a survey, as was 
^^4$!^ provided in Ordinance No. 21 of 1844. 

g^ ^ - The commissioners however are, thirty days before they make 
their partition, to fix in some part of the land a written notice of 
the day on which they purpose to make the partition, and also 
to give further notice by beat of tom-tom or otherwise in manner 
best calculated for giving the greatest publicity thereto. 

This provision seems intended to give notice to all persons who 
may be interested in the land, and who may not be {>artie6 to the 
proceedings of what is being done, so that they may intervene in 
the suit if so advised. After the return of the commission the 
Court is to fix a day for considering the return, when the return 
will either be sent back for amendment, or may be confirmed with 
or without modification, in which latter case final judgment fw 
partition will be entered. 

This Ordinance, like the former Ordinance, enacts (see section 9) 
that the decree for partition or sale is to be good and conclusive 
against all persons whomsoever, whatsoever their rights miay be, 
and whether they are parties to the proceedings or not, but it gives 
persons injured a remedy against the party by whose acts they have 
been damaged. 

It has been held by this Coiui; (Don Carolis v. Watta Baba, 7 
S, C. C. 125) that the effect of this section is to give the persons who 
take title under the decree a title good against the true owner. 
It is not necessary now to decide whether this decision is right 
or not ; but having r^ard to the whole scope of the Ordinance and 
to the provisions as to the publicity, I incline to think that it is. 
It is in the highest degree desirable that a title given by the Court 
should not be impeachable, and that purchasers and mortgagees 
should be able to deal safely with the persons declared by the Court 
to be the owners. At the same time I venture to doubt whetha' 
the decree of partition referred to in section 9 is the interlocutory 
decree of partition, as seems to have been the opinion of Phsab, C.J. 
(see Assena Marikar v. Ustibu Lebbe, 1 8. C, 0. 19), This was merely 
a dictum, for it was not necessary for the decision of the case. Section 
9 appears to me to refer to the final judgment in each case. In the 
case of a partition it is to be a judgment by which shares are awarded 
in severalty. Now, the interlocutory judgment for partition does not 
award any shares in severalty. It merely declares that the parties 
are entitled to certain undivided shares, and directs the oommis- 
sioners to partition the land. It is the final judgment which awards 
the shares in severalty. These provisions appear to be borrowed from 
the English Act, 8 and 9, William HI., chap. 31, which was the W 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 367 ) 

English Act dealing with partition at the dates of the passing of 189<^- 

the Ceylon Ordinances. April l and 

^ May 8. 

That Act provided that the final judgment was to include all bonsbb C.J, 
persons, though not named in the proceedings ; but a year was 
allowed within which a claimant could come in and apply to have 
the judgment set aside. That Act was repealed in 1867, and pro- 
ceedings in partition in all English Courts are now governed by the 
Partition Acts of 1868 and 1876. It is to be regretted that the 
Legislature of this Island has not thought fit to legislate on this 
matter since the passing of these Acts. 

It is to be observed that no conveyances are required, as in the 
case of partition made by the English Court of Equity. The party 
gets his title from the decree of the Court awarding him a definite 
piece of land. So Justinian lays down : Qttod aviem iatis jvdiciis 
(».e., Judiciis Communi Dividundo) aiicui ddjvdicatum sit, id atatim 
€jusfity cui adjtidicatum est. (Institutes, 4, 17, 7.) 

Whether or not the judgment be binding on the true owner 
who is not a party to the suit, it ia obvious that the Court ought 
not to make a decree, except it is perfectly satisfied that the persons 
in whose favour it makes the decree are entitled to the property. 
The Court should not, as it seems to me, regard these actions as 
merely to be decided on issues raised by and between the parties. 

The first thing the Court has to do is to satisfy itself that the 
plaintiff has made out his title, for, unless he makes out his title, 
his action cannot be maintained ; and he must prove his title strictly, 
as has been frequently pointed out by this Court. 

When he has done this, he has proved his right to maintain the 
action. The next step, according to the practice of the English 
Equity Courts, would be to make a decree directing inquiries to 
be made, whether all the parties interested in the land were parties 
to the action, or had been served with notice of the decree, and 
in that case ordering a partition or sale. I think that practice 
should be followed as nearly as may be. Section 508 of the Civil 
Procedure Code makes provision for inquiries of this kind. 

Collusion between plaintiffs and defendants is always possible 
in these cases, and therefore the District Judge should take care 
that the inquiry is not a perfunctory one. It is only after he is 
reasonably satisfied that all the owners who can be found are 
parties to the action, using, if necessary, the power given him by 
section 18 of the Civil Procedure Code, that he should make his 
decree declaring that the parties are entitled to certain aliquot 
shares, and directing a partition or sale, as the c€tse may be. tt 
would be desirable that where practicable the decree should be 

Digitized by 



Google 



BONSKR, C.J. 



( 368 ) 

1896. prefaced with such a declaration as follows : — " It appearing that 
^Pj^lo,nd " all persons entitled to or interested in undivided shares in the 
" land in the plaint described are parties to the action." 

If all the parties cannot be found, I think that the Court may 
allot severally the shares of the persons who have proved their 
rights to them, and may sell the remainder of the land, retaining 
the balance of the purchase money after payment thereout of a 
proportionate share of the costs of the action until the owners 
come forward and prove their title to it. 

In considering whether it should make a final decree for sale, 
or merely an interlocutory judgment for partition, the Court must 
take into consideration the circumstances referred to in the proviso 
to section 4 .of the Ordinance. It is obvious that in the majority of 
cases a sale will be more beneficial to all parties. I would add, in 
conclusion, that an action under the Partition Ordinance cannot be 
made — as I suspect is not infrequently attempted — a substitute for 
an action rei vindicatio. An interlocutory decree for partition, 
unless proceeded with, is useless for all purposes. It would not even 
support a plea of res judicata. Where such an interlocutory decree 
has been made, but not proceeded with, provisions of section 402 
of the Civil Procedure Code should be applied by the Court and its 
rolls cleared of the action. 



Withers, J. — 

I also agree with the judgment of my brother Lawbib. I have 
had the further advantage of reading the Chief Justice's judg- 
ment, and my Lord's observations on the procedure of partition 
actions have my hearty concurrence. 

The importance of the subject induces me to add a few observa- 
tions of my own. A plaintiff who has an interest in the soil and 
trees of a land in common with others, and desires to procure a 
partition or sale of the premises, may not know who all the co- 
owners and mortgagees of a land are. It goes without saying 
that he should do his best to ascertain who they are before he 
comes to Court. If the shares of the co-owners of soil and trees 
named in his libel do not ex facie exhaust the land, the Court, before 
making any order of partition or sale, should in my opinion by notice 
and advertisement, or in such manner as the Coiui; thinks best for 
the purpose, endeavour to procure the attendance of all who claim 
to have common interests in the land. 

This course should be followed where, after inquiring into the 
claims of the plaintiff and the defendants named in the libel, the 
parties are not found to own the entire land between them. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WlTHBBS, J. 



( 369 ) 

If it so happens that all the co-owners of a land cannot be ascer- ^^^' 

tained, and that land is one proper to be partitioned, then in ^^^v 8^^ 
my opinion the Court is entitled to divide amongst the claimants 
according to their shares so much of the land as those shares amount 
to, and to order the sale of the unassignable parcel, the net proceeds 
thereof being reserved for possible claimants on the fund. If the 
entire land ought to be sold, then the net balance of the sum 
equivalent to the unascertained shares will be reserved in the 
same way. 

So much for cases in which all the co-owners of a land cannot 
be discovered before the judgment on the return to the comis- 
sion for partition or sale, which is the final and conclusive judgment 
in these actions. 

Considering that the final judgment binds others than the 
immediate parties to the partition suit, claimants to shares who 
may have had notice of the proceedings only when the commissioner 
has taken steps to prepare his return should be let in and their 
claims inquired into, even if it should happen that they purport 
to modify the interlocutory judgment as to the shares of the parties 
to the actual award. After hearing the new claimants and the 
former parties it may be that the Court will have to re-form its 
interlocutory judgment. This course seems to me to be in harmony 
with the provisions of the 18th section of the Civil Procedure Code, 
It is the paramount object of the Court in these cases to ascertain 
who are all the co-owners of the particular land sought to be parti- 
tioned or sold. 

Again, it can hardly be too often repeated that unless a plaintiff 
strictly proves his title to a share in common with others, his 
action should be dismissed ; that no share should be assigned to 
a claimant without strict proof of title ; and that the interlocutory 
judgment as to the shares of the parties then before the Court 
does not determine the statutory action of partition. 



Lawme, J. — 

In this partition suit the learned District Judge decided that 
certain added parties had no share in the family lands. I am not 
satisfied that the decision is right, but counsel for the respondents 
was not fully heard because we found that all the necessary parties 
are not before the Court. 

The plaintiffs seek a partition on the footing of a custom of 
inheritance in their family, unusual in the maritime provinces 

Vol. I. 12(54)29/ Google 



( 370 ) 

1896. and opposed to the common law and to the Ordinance of 1876, 

April 1 and yj^ a custom that the daughters do not share with their brothers 
May 5. . ' . * 

m the succession. 



Lawbie, J. 



It is on this footing that the plaint is framed. The plaintiffs 
omit not only the descendants of their paternal aunts, but also 
their own six sisters. It is in vain to adjudicate piecemeal on the 
rights of parties in a partition suit. It would be embarrassing 
if we were now to decide on the evidence before us, whether the 
added parties have shares, because, if others are to be cited aa 
defendants they would not be bound by a judgment at this stage 
to which they were not parties, and the question might require to 
be tried anew. Therefore it is necessary to set aside the partition 
decree and to send the case back for further inquiries as to the 
persons interested and their shares. Plaintiffs must give to the 
District Court the names of all the known living descendants of 
the paternal aunts and of the six sisters, and the descendants of 
such of them as have died. 

By the law of the country these persons had by inheritance a 
right to share. It may be they have not possessed the lands in 
question, either because of other family arrangements or because 
the custom of exclusion of the females has been recognized and 
acquiesced in by them. Anyhow, it cannot be presumed that 
this abnormal custom exists in the absence of those whom the 
plaintiffs desire to exclude. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 371 ) 



SUPERMANIAN v. PERUMAL. 1894. 

August SO, 
D. C, Colombo, 013,753. 

Civil Procedure Code, as, 300% 303, 305, 307 to 312--Relea8e of judgment' 
debtor on terms — Alteration of terms of decree — Payment by 
instalments — Policy of the law as to incarceration of debtors. 

Under section 300 of the Civil Procedure Code, when a judgment - 
debtor is brought before the Court after being arrested in execution 
of a decree for money, the Court, in certain circumstemces, may, 
upon such terms, if any, as it thinks fit, make an order dii'ecting 
his release — 

Held, that under this section the Court has no power to alter, 
to the creditor's disadvantage, the terms of the decree, and it 
cannot therefore allow the debtor the privilege of paying the 
amount of the decree by instalments. The terms intended by the 
section must be ternvs onerous to the debtor and not to the creditor. 

Per Lawrie, J.- — -The policy of the law now is to discourage 
the incarceration of honest debtors who, from misfortune and 
poverty, cannot pay their debts, and to confine the creditor's 
remedy of imprisoning, his debtor only, or at least mainly, to cases 
where the debtor is contumacious, €md will not pay or disclose for 
seizure fimds over which he has control. 



T 



HE facts of the case appear sufficiently in the judgments 
delivered by their Lordships. 



Wendt, for appellant. 

Domhorst and Sampayo, for respondent. 

30th August, 1894, Lawbie, A.C.J.— 

In this appeal we are called on to decide what are the powers 
of a District Judge when a judgment-debtor is brought before 
him arrested on a writ against person. 

It must be admitted that it is difficult to reconcile the 300th 
and the 305th sections of the Code, which both deal with this 
matter. 

In the former (which is taken from the Indian Code) a discre- 
tion is given to the Court to release the debtor, either without 
conditions or upon terms, provided it appears to the Court that 
the debtor is unable to pay from poverty or other sufficient cause ; 
and in determining whether he shall exercise the discretion, the 
Judge may take into consideration the five matters stated in section 
303, and a judgment-debtor, released under section 300 and 302, 
may be re-arrested. 

Then, it is somewhat puzzling to fibad in section 305 that a debtor 
shall be released if he satisfies the Court that he has no 
seizable property, or that he is ready and willing to point out all 
such seizable property as he possesses. It may, I think, be gathered C^oOqIp 



1894. 
August 30. 

JjXWBIK, 

A.C.J. 



( 372 ) 

from the sections, and from the sections 307-312, that the policy 
of the law now is to discourage the incarceration of honest debtors 
who, from misfortune and poverty, cannot pay their debts, and to 
confine the creditor's remedy of imprisoning his debtor only, or at 
least mainly, to cases where the debtor is contumacious, and will 
not pay or disclose for seizure funds which he has control over. 
Whatever be the District Judge's power, and whatever be the 
right given to the debtor by the 305th section, it is in my opinion 
certain that the Court has no power given to it to alter the decree 
under which the arrest has been made. 

It cannot from pity reduce the debt from Rs. 100,000 to Rs. 10,000, 
nor can it (as the District Judge did here) transform the decree 
from Rs. 2,000 into one for a monthly payment of Rs. 50. 

The 300th section speaks of releasing upon terms, but that means 
putting the debtor on terms ; it does not mean imposing terms 
unfavourable to the creditor and favourable to the debtor. In 
other words, a Judge may not in the order of release alter to the 
creditor's disadvantage the terms of the decree. 

In the present case, the debtor did not bring himself within 
the terms of the 305th section. The learned Judge exceeded the 
powers given to him by the 300th section. I would set aside the 
order, and I would remit the case to the District Court to be 
proceeded with according to law. 

No costs. 



Withers, J. — 

The order appealed from appears to be contained in a journal 
entry of the Ist November, 1893, and is as follows : — 

** Defendant will be allowed to pay by instalments of Rs. 50 per 
" month from the 5th instant. On failure to pay instalment on or 
" before 5th of each month, warrant to issue." This order was made 
on the occasion of the judgment-debtor in the action on the record 
being brought before the Court after arrest in execution of the 
money decree, and we were told that this was intended to be an 
order directing the judgment-debtor's release on terms under 
section 300 of the Civil Procedure Code. But this is not an order 
on terms at all. To be released from an arrest otherwise good 
is an indulgence which must be paid for. The terms must be 
onerous to the debtor, and not to the creditor. 

Here, a creditor is made to pay for an indulgence to the debtor, 
which cannot be right. 

The order amounts to a modification of the final decree, and 
that in itself stamps the order as a wrong one. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 373 ) 

This first part of section 305 of our Code is taken from the Indian 1394. 
Code, section 337, which there falls into its proper position Augxiat 3). 
immediately preceding section 337 (a), which corresponds to our ^ 
section 300 before referred to. Where the latter and larger part 
of our 305th section has been taken from, I do not know, but it 
must be clearly taken into consideration when a judgment-debtor 
is brought into Court under a warrant for his arrest. The learned 
Judge gave no reasons for his order, which does not expressly 
direct the man's release. 

I think the order should be set aside, and the question of the 
man's release or committal be further inquired into and deter- 
mined. 



RODE V. BAWA. 1896. 

P. C, Badvlla, 16, 009, ^dZ i/' 

Administration of justice by Magistrates — Inexpediency of a Superin- ' 

tendent of Police trying^ as Police Magistrate^ complaints of street 
nuisances and resistance to the Police, 

The Superintendent of Police for the Province of Uva had been 
appointed Additional Police Magistrate of the Police Court of 
BadiiJla. There having been complaints of street nuisances in 
the town of Badulla, the Superintendent gave orders that all 
offenders should be arrested and prosecuted. Acting upon these 
orders a police officer arrested appellant, without a warrant, for 
committing a nuisance in his view ; and as appellant resisted the 
arroat, he charged him with not only committing a nuisance, 
but obstructing him in the execution of his duty. Appellant was 
brought before the Superintendent sitting as Additional Police 
Ma.^^istrate, tried by him, and convicted on both charges. 

Held by Bonser, C.J., that the conviction could not stand. 
The principle applicable to a C€«je like this s that the administra- 
tion of justice by Magistrates should be clear from all suspicion 
of imfairness. That justice should be believed by the public 
to be unbiassed is almost as important as that it should be in 
fact luibiassed. 

Per Lawbie, J. — An officer of the police cannot take part either 
as Judge or investigating Magistrate in cases in which members 
of the police are personally interested, the disqualification being 
not that the Magistrate has a direct interest, but that the parties 
before him are those over whom he has control, and in the main- 
tenance of whose position and authority he is interested. 

Lawrie, J., would however sustain the conviction for com- 
mitting nuisance, the Magistrate having had no interest in the 
prosecution for that offence either of a personal or pecimiary 
natiu-e, and no bias either against or in favour of the accused. 

THE facts of the case appear sufficiently in the judgment of 
Bonser, C.J. 

Baiva, for appellant. The Police Magistrate belonged to the 
same class as the prosecutor — ^the police. There would be a 
reasonable apprehension of bias — actual bias was not suggested. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 374 ) 

1896. In Regina v. Hvggins, 1895, 1 Q. B, 665, the conviction was quaahed 

^mi% where only one of a bench of six justices was held disqualified. 

Further, the Magistrate, as Superintendent of Police, had specially 

directed prosecution in such cases. The case, Christqffelsz v. 

Slema Lebbe, J C. L, R. 5, was in point. 

Cooke, C. C, for re8X)ondent. 

Cur. adv. vuU. 

19th May, 1896. Bonsee, C.J.— 

In this case I reserved the question raised by Mr. Bawa, as to 
the legality of a police officer exercising judicial f mictions as a 
Police Magistrate in a case in which a police officer subordinate 
to him was prosecuting, to be heard before two Judges. I desired 
also to have the assistance of an argument in support of the con- 
viction, and Mr. Cooke argued the case on behalf of the Attorney- 
General. It appears that the Superintendent of Police for the 
Province of Uva has been appointed to be an Additional Police 
Magistrate of the Police Court of Badulla. There having been 
complaints of street nuisances in the town of Badulla, the Superin- 
tendent of Police gave orders that all offenders should be arrested 
and prosecuted. Acting upon these orders, a police officer arrested 
the appellant, without a warrant, for committing a nuisance in 
his view ; and as the appellant resisted the arrest, he charged him 
not only with committing a nuisance, but with obstructing him 
in the execution of his duty, by assaulting him. The appellant was 
brought before the Superintendent of Police sitting in lus cax>acity 
as Additional Police Magistrate, tried by him, and convicted on 
both charges. The question is whether this conviction can stand. 
There is no case exactly like this to be found in the books, for I 
suppose such a case never happened before. A police officer 
exercising judicial functions is to me a complete novelty. English 
Judges of the greatest eminence have repeatedly expressed the 
strongest disapproval of a police officer conducting a prosecution 
before Magistrates, on the ground apparently that the duty and 
interest of the police officer being to secure a conviction, he could 
not be expected to lay the facts before the Court in the dispassionate 
manner which ought to characterize the conduct of a prosecution. 
The principle which should be applied to a case like this is simple. 
The difficulty is in its application. That principle is that the 
administration of justice by Magistrates should be clear from all 
suspicion of unfairness. That justice should be believed by the public 
to be unbiassed is almost as imx)ortant as that it should be in 
fact im biassed. At this point it is right to state that no imputation 
of actual unfairness was made or suggested against t^his Magistrate 

Digitized by VjOOQFC 



( 376 ) 

by Mr. Bawa. I do not find in any of the cases to which 1896. 
I have referred in considering this question, that the Court has ^^ ^'•^^ 

ever gone into the question of actual bias. The real question in 

these cases, as was stated by Wills, J., in Begina v. Huggina, 1895, 
1 Q. B. 565, is this — ** Was there a reasonable apprehension of 
'' bias ? '' In that case, which is the latest English case on this 
subject, an unqualified pilot was charged with acting as a pilot 
after a qualified pilot had offered to pilot the ship, and was conducted 
by a court of six justices, one of whom was a licensed pilot, but 
who for forty-three years had held a position in which there was 
no competition between himself and the unlicensed pilots. It 
was held that the fact that one of the six was a licensed pilot vitiated 
the conviction. The Court there stated that there was no question 
of the Magistrate having any pecuniary interest, nor was it suggested 
that he had any actual bias ; but the judgment was based on the 
principle above stated. In the present case the Magistrate is the 
police officer in charge of his district ; he is responsible for its 
peace and good order. If he fails to keep his district free from crime, 
or at least from tmdetected crime, he is liable to censure from his 
superior officer, the Inspector-General of Police ; while if he is 
energetic in bringing criminals to justice, he earns corresponding 
praise. His duty and his interest coincide in the prompt suppression 
of all crimes and offences and in making an example of offenders. 
It must be difficult for a man in such a position to assume a 
thoroughly impartial attitude. Mr. Cooke argued that as he would 
know the character of the policemen who came to give evidence 
before him, he would be in a better position to judge of the value 
and weight to be given to their evidence. But this very argument 
points to a ground of disqualification. It suggests that he will 
have preconceived opinions with regard to certain evidence. The 
esprit de corps of a police force is proverbial, and it is but natural 
for a superior officer to support his subordinates, especially 
when they are -carrying out his own orders. I cannot say that 
an accused person, seeing himself charged by one police officer 
and tried by another, might not reasonably feel some apprehen- 
sion as to the impartiality of the tribunal. I am therefore of 
opinion that the conviction should be quashed. I thus arrive 
at the same result as my brother Lawrie ; but I go a little further 
than he does, agreeing as I do with what was said by the Court 
in Begina v. Htiggins, " that it is far safer to enlarge the area 
'' of this class of objection to the qualification of justices than to 
'* restrict it." It should be remarked that cases tried summarily 
by Magistrates are withdrawn from the constitutional tribunal—r^ ^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BONSEB, C.J. 



( 376 ) 

1896. a judge with a jury — and therefore the proceedings of Magistrates 
May 6, 8, sitting in summary jurisdiction have always been jealously 
scrutinized by the Superior Courts. 

The foregoing observations apply to the case where the Magistrate 
is exercising judicial functions in the strict sense of the term, 
that is to say, when he is trying cases summarily. They do not 
apply with the same force to a case where the Magistrate is exer- 
cising the ministerial functions of holding an inquiry with the view 
of committing the accused for trial to a Higher Court. 

Lawrie, J. — 

When the case was last before this Court, the Chief Justice 
held that it was proved that the appellant was guilty of both the 
offences of which he had been charged. There remains, however, 
the question of law, whether the Acting Magistrate was disqualified 
from trying the charges of committing nuisance and of resisting 
the police. The Acting Police Magistrate is the senioi ofl&cer 
of police of the Province, in which he has been appointed by His 
Excellency to act as Additional Police Magistrate. He in his 
capacity of Police Superintendent had given orders to sergeants 
and constables to be strict about business. He had not directed 
the prosecution of the accused. If it be lawful for the Governor 
to appoint an officer of police to be an Acting Magistrate then in 
my opinion it was not beyond Mr. Grordon Cumming*s power to 
try this simple charge of committing a nuisance on the public street. 
The Magistrate had ho interest in the prosecution either of a personal 
or pecuniary nature. It seems to be impossible to hold that 
he had the slightest bias either against or in favour of a Moorman 
accused of committing a petty nuisance. I cannot imagine that 
any one could seriously think that the senior officer of police would 
take a different view of the evidence, or would punish more severely 
than the permanent Police Magistrate. With regard to the charge 
of resisting the police in the execution of their duty, I am of the 
opinion, however, that the Acting Police Magistrate was disqualified. 

It seems to me that an officer of the police cannot take x>art. 
either as judge or investigating Magistrate in cases in which members 
of the police are personally interested. The disqualification is 
not that the Magistrate has a direct interest, but that the 
parties before him are those over whom he has control, and 
in the maintenance of whose position and authority he cannot but 
be interested. Although I would sustain the conviction for com- 
mitting nuisance, I am content to quash the whole pro- 
ceedings. It is inconvenient to quash a part and to leave a part. 



( 377 ) 



MOHIDIN V. NALLE TAMBY. 1896. 

March 27 
D. C, Karidy, 9,256. and AprU L 

Warrant of arrest — " Court,'' meaning of, as used in s, 298, Civil Pro- 
cedure Code — Committal and discharge of judgment-debtor — 
Order made in his absence, and not in Court — " Chambers,'* what 
it includes — Power of District Judge to re-issue warrant of arrest 
or issue fresh warrant. 

Under section 298 of the Civil Procedure Code a judgment- 
debtor when arrested on a warrant of arrest should be brought 

before the Court — 

Held by Bonser, C.J., and Withers, J., that the word " court " 

there meant the place where the Judge was empowered to act 

judiciedly, and was in fact so acting. 

Held further, that a District Judge htid no power to order the 

committal or release of a judgment -debt or arrested on a warrant 

when he had not the debtor before him. 

Per Bonser, C.J. — ^A District Judge cannot ordinarily exercise 

his judicial functions elsewhere than in open Court. 

Per Lawrie, J. — (1) Anorder of commitment or release of a civil 

prisoner is a judicial act which can competently be done in 

chambers, and ** chambers " includes the Judge's own house, 

if it is situated in the town where his Court is. 

(2) Where a Judge finds that he was in error in discharging a 

judgment -debtor arrested on a warrant of arrest, and that the 

creditor had used due diligence in the conduct of the warrant, 

he may issue a fresh warrant or re -issue the old one. 

^T^HE facts of the case sufficiently appear in the judgments of 
^ their Lordships. 

Dornhorst, for appellant. 

Ist April, 1896. Withers, J.— 
The facts of this case appear to be as follows : — 
On the 19th August, 1895, the District Judge, on the appli- 
cation of the proctor for the execution-creditor, ordered a warrant 
for the arrest of the judgment-debtor, on condition of a sum of 
Rs. 40 being deposited for the subsistence of the debtor from the 
time of his arrest till he could be brought before the Court. 

That condition was fulfilled, and on the 23rd of Septembe^ 
following the warrant of arrest was issued. 

According to a journal entry in the record, dated the 23rd 
November (following), the Deputy Fiscal of Trincomalee produced 
the body of the judgment-debtor arrested under the warrant, and 
the Judge made and signed an order committing the debtor to 
prison. ^ , 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 378 ) 

1896. The same day the District Judge made and signed an order 

and April 1. discharging the judgment-debtor, the reason for his doing so being 
W m-^H Z* J *^*^* *^® stamp for commitment was not supplied. 

On the 29th January, 1896, the execution-creditor's proctor 
repeated, after notice to the judgment-debtor, an application which 
he had made on the preceding 25th of November without such 
notice, for an order vacating the aforesaid order of discharge. 

This application was discussed on the 10th of February following, 
and after hearing Mr. Beven for the execution-creditor the District 
Judge refused to vacate his previous order of discharge. 

An appeal has been taken from the order refusing Mr. Beven's 
motion. 

The judgment-debtor was brought under the warrant of arrest 
to the court-house at Kandy. The Judge was not holding Court 
at the time. He was in his house. The debtor was not brought 
before him there. Being informed by the Secretary of his Court 
that the judgment-debtor had been brought up, and that he had 
no cause to show against his committal, the District Judge made 
his order of commitment. It afterwards transpired that no stamp 
had been supplied by the execution-creditor for the warrant of 
committal. Thereupon (on the same day) the Judge ordered the 
discharge from arrest of the judgment-debtor. This was some- 
thing more than vacating his order of committal. 

In my opinion, the proper way to deal with this matter is to quash 
all the orders. The order which the District Judge refused to 
vacate is obviously irregular. So is the order of committal. 

A judgment-debtor when arrested under a civU warrant has to 
be brought before the Court (i.e., of issue) with all convenient 
speed if the judgment-debt and costs are not fully paid. What is 
meant by the Court ? It surely means the place where the Judge 
is acting judicially, and is empowered to act judicially. See 
sections 3 and 5 of 1 of 1889. 

If the Judge was acting judicially when he made these orders, 
the debtor was not before him. If he was not before him, the 
Judge had no power to order either his committal or discharge. 

For this reason I propose that we should quash the two orders 
of the 23rd November, 1895, and of the 10th February, 1896. 

Lawbie, J. — 

The District Judge of Kandy ordered the release from custody 
of a civil debtor arrested under a warrant against person. 

The order was obeyed, the man went away. 

Assuming that the order was wrong, what was the remedy ? 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 379 ) 

Relying on the analogous case of discharge in criminal cases, I 1896. 
am inclined to the opinion that an appeal was competent : if no a^^Awi/ J 

appeal lay, this Court had power to revise. In either case (appeal 

or revision) if this Court had set aside the order of release, it would ^^^^'e, 
have instructed the District Judge in what way he should cause 
the debtor to be again brought before him, so that the parties 
might be placed in the same position in which they stood at the 
moment before the order of release was made. Instead of appeal- 
ing or of asking that the order be revised, the decree-holder moved 
the District Court to recall its order, and this, after some delay, 
the Court refused to do. 

It is from that refusal that this appeal is taken. 

I am of the opinion that the District Judge had no power to 
recall the order of release : it had been acted on. Granted that 
the Judge had made a mistake, it was a mistake which was beyond 
his power to rectify, except by the issue of a warrant of arrest — 
and that he was not asked to do. He was only asked to cry peccavi. 
That was I think an inapt motion, one which was rightly refused. 
As I have just said, the plaintiff might have asked the District 
Judge to re-issue the warrant of arrest, and if the Judge had been 
satisfied that the error was his, and that the plaintiff had shown 
due diligence in the conduct of the former warrant, he had power to 
issue a new warrant or to re-issue the old one. 

It seems to me that the remedy which the plaintiff sought was 
not a remedy, and that the order of refusal now appealed against 
was right. 

On these grounds I was of the opinion that the appeal must be 
dismissed without expressing an opinion on the order of release, 
leaving that to be decided when the plaintiff applied for a warrant. 

I was, and I am still, very unwilling to differ from the rest of 
the Court on the question whether the order of the release was 
right. 

But as I am forced to give a judgment on that point I must 
express my opinion fully. 

I understand the first objection to the order of release to be, 
that it was made by the Judge when he was at home, not in Court. 

The order was made on a Saturday, when a Judge usually is, 
and certainly in my opinion ought to be, in chambers, and not 
in Court. 

By chambers I do not mean only the stuffy little room which 
is all the acconmiodation usually given to our Judges in this hot 
country — I include in chambers the judge's own house, if it be 
situated in the town where his Court is. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Lawrib, J. 



( 380 ) 

1896. Much judicial work is properly and legally done in chambers, 

amd'AiarU^i ^^^ ^^ "^^ Opinion making an order of commitment or of release 
of a civil prisoner is a judicial act which can competently be done 
in chambers, and need not necessarily be done in open Court. 

So that I think the fact that the order was made on a Saturday 
in chambers did not invalidate it. 

The next objection taken was that the parties to the action 
were not present before the Judge. 

It was not necessary that the plaintiff should be present. When 
I was District Judge, it was the practice for the decree-holder to 
move the Court to commit, and I think some Judges used to refuse 
to commit a civil debtor unless such a motion was made ; but the 
Code does not contemplate the presence of the plaintiff decree- 
holder ; the duty is laid on the Judge to commit, unless the debtor 
shows sufficient cause to the contrary. The absence of the plaintiff 
— and he was in fact absent — would not have vitiated an order of 
commitment, and cannot vitiate an order of release. 

The debtor was also not before the Judge. This would have 
been a fatal error had the Judge made an order in the debtor's 
favour. Against the order the debtor had nothing to say, doubt- 
less he thought it admirable. 

The decree-holder, the appellant, maintains that the Judge ought 
to have committed the debtor ; but the Judge has shown that was 
impossible. The Judge could not sign a commitment which was 
unstamped — the plaintiff had not supplied a stamp. The jailer 
could not receive a prisoner for debt on an unstamped commit- 
ment. It is plain that the Judge could not have committed, and 
in fact he did not commit. 

It is said he ought to have fallen into the old evil course of 
doing nothing, of delay, of postponement, against which we have 
been struggling and protesting for years ; that the Judge ought to 
have postponed further consideration of the debtor's position until 
the following Monday, in order to give time to the plaintiff or his 
proctor to furnish the required stamp. Against that proposition I 
ventured to protest (perhaps with undue vehemency). My opinion 
is that the Fiscal was functtu officio when he fulfilled the order 
contained in the warrant, viz., when he arrested the debtor and 
brought him before the Court — ^then the Court had to decide qiuim 
primum whether the man should go to prison or be let at liberty. 

This was a matter affecting personal liberty, which the law 
greatly favours. In my opinion it would have been ultra vires 
had the District Judge ordered the Fiscal to detain the debtor. 
The alternative before the Judge was to commit or to release. 
He could not lawfully commit, because there waa^no^st^mp : be 



( 381 ) 

had no choice ; he could not lawfully make any other order than ^^®®- 

that which he did make, the order of release. March 27 

* and Aprtl i. 

For these reasons I would dismiss this appeal. 



BONSBB, C.J. — 

The facts in this case are simple. The appellant, a judgment- 
creditor, obtained a warrant of execution from the Kandy Court 
against the person of his debtor. The warrant was executed by 
the Deputy Fiscal of Trincomalee, who arrested the debtor and, 
as required by section 298 of the Civil Procedure Code, brought 
him to Kandy, in order that he might, '' as soon as practicable, be 
brought before the Court." The Deputy Fiscal with his prisoner 
arrived in Kandy on a Saturday afternoon when the Court was 
not sitting. The Judge, who was at his own house some distance 
away, was informed by the Secretary of the Court that the debtor 
had been brought to the coiui)-house, and that he had admitted 
that he had no cause to show against being committed to jail. 
Thereupon, without having the debtor before him, he made and 
recorded an order committing him to jail under section 305 of 
the Civil Procedure Code. 

At a later period of the same day the District Judge made and 
recorded an order discharging the debtor from custody. That 
order was also made in his own house, and without having the 
execution-debtor before him. The ground of this latter order is 
stated to be that the appellant had not supplied the stamp required 
by the Stamp Ordinance for the warrant of committal. 

The execution-creditor, as soon as he came to hear of these 
proceedings, applied to the District Judge to cancel his order of 
discharge. This he refused to do. From that refusal this appeal 
is brought. 

In my opinion the appeal should be allowed. The District 
Judge, not having the debtor before him, had no jurisdiction to 
make either an order of committal or of discharge. The Deputy 
Fiscal did not comply with section 298, for the debtor was never 
" brought before the Court." True it is that he was taken to 
the court-house, but that is not what is meant by the words, 
which mean that he must be brought before the District Judge 
acting judicially. Assuming for the moment that a District 
Judge can exercise his judicial functions in his private house, it 
is clear that he cannot exercise them with respect to a person who 
is not before him. The Cases in which the court can release a 
judgment debtor are specified in section 305 ; but they are all subject 
to the condition that the debtor is brought before the Court. The 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 382 ) 

1896. debtor was not brought before the Court, and therefore the order 

^Haa^i was without jurisdiction. 

Th0 proper order will be that both orders be quashed. 

BoN8KB,C.J. j^ ig 33^^^ ^y^^^ tjjig ^^ ^^ Qf jjQ ^se tQ i^ije appellant. But in 

my opinion any person who is prejudiced by an order improperly 
made by a District CJourt is entitled to come to this Court to have 
that order set aside. It cannot be said that the appellant was not 
prejudiced by this order, for he thereby lost the security of the 
person of the debtor. Moreover, so long as this order stands he 
may be seriously embarrassed by it in any subsequent proceedings 
which he might be advised to take to recover his debt. 

Everything which falls from my brother Lawrie is deserving 
of the greatest respect, but I am not sure that I understand the 
expression ** chambers " used in connection with a District Court. 
It does not occur, so far as I know, in the Civil Procedure Code, 
and the fact that all applications are to be made either by way of 
action or petition would seem to imply that they must be made in 
open Court. The appropriate form that applications made in 
chambers should take is that of summons. But it is unnecessary 
now to decide whether a District Judge can exercise any, and 
which, of his judicial functions elsewhere, than in the building 
appropriated by law or usage as a District Court. It was stated 
that Judges of the Court of Chancery in England had granted 
temporary injunctions at their homes and elsewhere, but the 
office of District Judge is not analogous to that of a Judge of a 
Superior Court in England. It may be that in a case of urgency 
amounting to necessity a District Judge might so act, but I am 
clearly of opinion that this was not such a case. 

I wish it to be understood that my decision implies no reflection 
on the District Judge for being absent from Court at the day and 
hour in question. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 383 ) 



DANIEL V. RODRIGO. 1896. 

P. CPdnaduri, 13,728. January Si. 

ToU — Ordinance No, 14 of 1867, as. 7, 15 — Superintendent of Minor 
Roads — Certificate of exemption. 

Under section 7 of the Ordineince No. 14 of 1867 the Govern- 
ment Agent has no power to issue a certificate of exemption from 
toll of the can*iages» cartB, and horses of the Superintendent of the 
Minor Roads while used in the Public Service on the roads in charge 
of that officer. 

^MHE accused was convicted under the 15th section of the 
-^ Ordinance No. 14 of 1867 of taking toll from H. L. Daniel, 
Superintendent of Minor Roads for the Western Province, a person 
whom the accused had been directed by the Government Agent 
of the Western Province to permit to pass without payment of 
toll. 

The certificate of exemption ran as follows : — ** This is to certify 
" that the carriages, carts, and horses of the Superintendent of 
'" Minor Roads are entitled to pass free of payment through all 
" tolls situated within ten miles of any roads in his charge, when 
** those carriages, carts, or horses are travelling upon the Public 
** Service. Granted under Ordinance No. 14 of 1867. 

*' A. R. Dawson, 
" Government Agent." 

De Saram, for accused appellant. 

Slst January, 1896. Withbbs, J.— 

The defendant has been convicted under the 15th section of the 
Ordinance of 1867 of the offence of demanding and taking toll 
as toll-keeper from Mr. Daniel, the Superintendent of Minor Roads, 
an officer exempted by the 7th section of Ordinance No. 14 of 1867 
from paying toll. 

The facts and the law scarcely support this judgment. 

The evidence discloses that toll was taken, not from Mr. Daniel, 
but from his horsekeepers, who were taking a carriage and two 
horses of their master back to Colombo. 

Mr. Daniel was at Panadur6 when toll was demanded of his 
servants. One of them returned and told Mr. Daniel of the 
detention, and he gave his horsekeeper a rupee to pay the toll 
demanded. The horsekeeper was given by his master exhibit 
C, which purports to be a certificate of exemption from toll of the 
carriages, carts, and horses of the Superintendent of Minor Roads ^ , 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( 384 ) 

1896. while used on the Public Service on the roaxis in that officer's 
Ja nuary 31. charge. It is signed by Mr. Dawson as Government Agent and 
WiTHEBs» J. CJhairman of the Provincial Road CSommittee. 

This certificate names no one^ and is, I suppose, intended for the 
use of the officer for the time being. 

This Ck)urt has held that a Superintendent of Minor Roads is not 
liable to pay toll when engaged on any work on a road within ten 
miles of the toll station. He derives his immunity in such 
circumstances from the Ordinance itself. 

No one appeared in support of the conviction to establish the 
power of the Grovernment Agent to grant such a certificate as " C." 
His power is, as far as I know, limited by the provisions of section 

7 of the Toll Ordinance of 1867, which enacts : — " and it 

*' shall be lawful for the Government Agent, if he shall see fit so 
" to do, to direct the toll-keeper in writing to permit cattle or 
" sheep driven to grass, persons with cattle, agricultural injstru- 
" ments, or seed grain for the cultivation of their lands,' and 
'" children going to and from school, to pass without payment of 

** toll " This certificate goes beyond these powers. 

What I take it Mr. Daniel should have done was to give his 
horsekeepers a certificate that they were taking his carriage and 
horses back to Colombo on a return from a tour of inspection of 
the roads under his supervision, or on return from supervising 
some particular work within ten miles of the station, as the case 
may be. 

I think the accused was ill-advised in taking the toll under the 
circumstances, but he was not, as it seems to me, breaking the law, 
and so this judgment must be set aside, and he must be acquitted 
and discharged. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



