ISffliilPj 


w>mi'' 


i,:'f.V:s-'Mn 


.■,-■/■ 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  tliis  book  is  in 
tine  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924024946133 


Cornell   University   Library 
KF    1569.51833 


Digest  of  the  decisions  o(  tlie  Supreme 


3    1924   024   946    133 


Olorn^U  Ham  i'rljnal  Hibrarg 


A    DIGEST 


OF  THE 


DECISIONS  OF  THE  SUPEEME  COUET 

SITTING  AT  COLOMBO, 

&u\ce  t|«  ^omttlaatton  of  f^e  €^avttK 


OF 


MDCCCXXXIII. 


EDITED   BY 

OWEN  W.  C.  MORGAN,  Esq., 

ADVOCATF. 

Colombo, 
1857. 


ADVERTISEMENT. 


The  following  pages  are  intended  to  form  part 
of  a  larger  work,  comprising  all  the  decisions  of 
the  Supreme  Court  from  1833  to  the  present  time. 
The  rest  of  the  work,  a  considerable  portion  of 
which  is  already  in  manuscript,  will  be  published 
in  similar  parts,  should  the  sale  of  the  present  part 
be  attended  wi*h  satisfactory  results.  A  full  Index 
will  also  be  i>rej)ared,  as  sonn  as  there  is  a  suffi- 
cient number  of  parts  to  make  up  a  volume. 

0.  A.  L. 

Colombo,  August  10, 1857. 


EXPLANATION  OF   ABBREVIATIONS  USED   IN 
THE  PRESENT  NUMBER. 


M.— The  Hon'ble  Sir  Charles  Marshall,  Knt.,  Chief 

Justice. 
R. — The  Hon'ble  W.  Rough,  Esq.,  Sergeant  at  Law,  Senior 

Puisne  Justice,  (appointed  Chief  Justice,  Oct.  12, 

1836.) 
N.— The  Hon'ble  William  Norris,  Esq.,  Second  Puisne 

Justice,  (appointed  Chief  Justice,  Mar.  30,  1836.) 
C. — The  Hon'ble    William  Ogle  Caer,  Esq.,  Second 

Puisne  Justice,  (appointed  Apr.  9, 1836.) 
St. — The  Hon'ble  J^hn  Frederick   Stoddart,    Esq., 

Second  Puisne  Justice,  (appointed  Oct.  12,  1836.) 
J. — The  Hon'ble  John  Jeremib,  Esq.,  Senior  Puisne  Jus- 
tice, (appointed  Dec.  31, 1836.) 
Coll. — The  three  Judges  at  Collective  Sittings. 
Jud.  Com. — The  Court  of  the  Judicial  Commissioner. 
Gov.  Ag. — The  Court  of  the  Government  Agent. 
S.  M. — The  Sitting  Magistrate's  Court. 
Prov.  C. — The  Provincial  Court. 
D.  C— The  District  Court. 


A 

DIGEST 

OF  THE 

DECISIONS  OF  THE  SUPREME  COURT 

SITTING  AT   COLOMBO, 

SINCE  THE  PROMULGATION  OF  THE 

CHARTER   OF  1833. 

Part  1.— From  October  1833  to  May   1837, 
Edited  hy  %m\\  M-  <&-  l^orptT, 

Advocate. 

Part  II — From  June    1837   to  December    1838, 

Edited  by  Wi-  IR.  Olcntti|iiIag, 

Proctor  of  iJie  District  Court  of  Colombo^ 

and 

Paet  III. — Fronr  January   1839  to  December   1842, 
With  a  copious  Index  to  the  whole  work. 

Edited  by  mm,  iticlmcl  i(}Img. 

Proctor  of  tlie  District  Court  of  Badulla. 


COLOMBO, 


[I  ] 

The  following  pages  which  together  with  Mr.  Ad- 
vocate Owen  Morgan's  Digest  from  October  1883  to 
May  1837  will  form  a  complete  Digest  from  1833  to 
1842,  are  offei'ed  to  the  Profession  as  a  prelude  to 
other  volumes,  containing  the  remaining  Decisions  of 
the  Civil,  and  also  others  from  the  Tuesday  and  Collec- 
tive Minutes  ;  all  of  which  are  now  in  Manuscript  and 
ready  for  the  Press. 

To  facilitate  reference  to  the  whole  work  numbers 
of  the  pages  and  paragraphs  of  Morgan's  Digest  have 
been  continued,  and  a  copious  Index  has  been  annexed. 

It  may  be  necessary  to  observe,  that  the  facts  of  the 
cases  heard  and  determined  in  Appeal  are,  with  some 
exceptions,  imperfectly  recorded  in  the  Minutes  of  the 
Supreme  Court ;  and  I  doubt  not  that  those  who  are  in 
the  habit  of  making  reference  to  them  will  bear  out 
the  assertion.  This  circumstance,  coupled  with  my  ciom- 
parative  inexperience  in  the  work,  will  I  trust  atone 
for  the  defects  and  errors  which  the  reader  may  dis- 
cover ill  the  following  pages,  and  which  would  proba- 
bly have  been  more  numerous  but  for  the  kind  and 
invaluable  assistance  rendered  me  by  Mr.  Advocate 
LoRENZ,  to  whom  I  take  this  opportunity  of  retui'n- 
ing  my    acknowledgments. 

I  think  it  also  right  to  state  that  as  the  first  portion 
of  this  volume,  from  June  1837  to  December  1838,  edited 
by  Mr.  Conderlag,  had  been  very  kindly  placed  at  my 
disposed,  I  have  availed  myself  of  it  to  advantage. 

In  my  acknowledgments  of  the  assistance  rendered 
me  by  friends  to  further  this  volume,  I  am  bound  to  offer 
my  thanks  to  Me.  J.  E.  VanderStraaten  of  the  Re- 
gistrar's Office,  who  has  spared  no  pains  to  afford  me 
every  facility  to  have  access  to  the  Minutes  of  the  Su- 
preme   Court, 

Wm.  Michael  Beling. 


Colombo, 
Small  Pass  21st,  October  1862. 


[  H  ] 

©able  flf  Jtbbreciations- 


R, — The  Hon'ble  W.  Rough,  Esquire.,   Serjeant-at-Law, 

Chief  Justice,  October  12th  1836. 
J. — The  Hon'ble  John  Jeeemie,  Esquire.,   Senior  Puisne 

Justice,    (appointed     Chief    Justice   May    23rd 

1838.) 
St. — The  Hon'ble  John  Feedekick  Stoddart,  Esquire., 

Second  Puisne  Justice  (appointed  Senior  Puisne 

Justice,  May  23rd  1838.) 
C. — The  Hon'ble  William  Ogle  Carr,  Esquire.,  Second 

Puisne  Justice,  (appointed  Senior  i^uisne  Justice, 

February  Ist  1840.) 
0. — The  Hon'ble  SiR  Anthony  Oliphant,  Knight,  Chief 

Justice,  May  1st  1839. 
H. — The  Hon'ble    John     Godfried    Hillebrand,    Es- 
quire.,  Second  Puisne  Justice,   November   23rd 

1839. 
S. — The  Hon'ble  James  Stark,  Esquire.,  Second  Puisne 

Justice,  April  7  th  1841. 

Coll. — Collective  Sittings. 
S.  0. — Supreme  Court. 
D.  C— District  Court. 
D.  J. — District  Judge. 
Par:- — Paragraph. 


[Ill  ] 

Errata. 


[N.  B. — A  few  sheets  of  this  work  having  run  short  they 
were  subsequently  re-printed ;  and  consequently  some  of  the 
following  errors  which  occur  in  the  sheets  of  the  first  issue,  were 
corrected  in  those  that  were  re-printed.] 

Abbreviations. 

[/.  n.  foot  note.  m.  n.  margined  note.  ] 

Page.  Linb. 

172  22  for  "  he"  read  be. 

179  25  for"  and"  read  or. 

182  20  for  "regulation"  read  resolution. 

182  42  (/.  n.)  for  "Ante  p.  52  by  223';  read  Vide  Morgan's 

Digest  p.  52  par.  223. 

!83  IB  f or  "  23"  read  523. 

184  41   (/.  n.)  fm  "See  infra  Dec.  20,  :837"  read  Vide  post 

p.  201  par.  542. 

185  35  for  "256"  read  526. 

185 '  43  for  "  Vide  infra  October  18,  1839,"  read  Vide 

post  p.  199  par  538. 

186  10  for  "257"  read  527. 

186  17  /(>)■«  258"  recwi!  528. 

187  3  }'or"259"recMJ529. 

188  2  /or"  260"  read  530. 

192  32  before  names  of  parties  insert  531. 

193  12  before  names  of  parties  insert  532. 

193  19  before  names  of  parties  insert  533. 

194  25  before  names  of  parties  insert  534. 

194  34  before  names  of  parties  insert  535. 

195  2  before  names  of  parties  insert  536. 
195                16  before  names  of  parties  insert  537. 

202  6  dele  "  and"  ' 

211  38  for  •'  504"  read  550. 

211  39  /or  "ante  p.  137"  read  in  Morgan's  Digest  p. 

137  par  463. 
211  5  (to.  71.)  for  "marg.  notes  p.  137"  read  Morgan's  Digest 

p.  137  par  463. 
214  3  for  " 505  read  bSl. 

21 7  37  for  "  556"  read  555. 

218  36  for  "  559"  read  556, 

222  —  (/.  1.)  for  '•  See  infra"  read  Vide  post  p.  225  pal  559. 

223  4  /or  "Ante  p.  107"  read  in  Morgan's  Digest  p. 

107  par  427. 
225  12  fcrr  "  jurisdiction  cases"  read  jurisdiction  over 

cases. 
225  37  for  "  See  ante  p.  218"  read  See  ante  p.  218  par. 

556. 
225  4  («i.  «.)  for  "ante  p.  218"  read  Ante  p.  218  par.  556. 

235  —    (top)         "  1883"  read  1838. 


[  IV] 


Line. 
1 8  (to.  5v.)  for  "  a",  read  at. 

7  /or  "ante  p.  154"  read  Morgan's  Digest  p.  154 

par  488. 
30  for  "  enferred"  read  referred. 

6  for  "  destination"  read  description. 

26  for  "  while"  read  which. 

4  (m.  n.)  for  "  or"  read  to. 
18  (m.  n.)  for  "regular"  read  irregular 
1 3  for  "  Proctors"  read  Proctor's. 

1  dele  "of." 

3  for  "  Ther"  read  The. 

6  (m.  «.)  after  "  their"  insert  claims. 

7  (m.  n.)  dele  "  claims." 


A  DIGEST 

'OF  THE 

DECISIONS  OF  THE  SUPREME  COURT, 
SITTINCt  A,T  COZ.OMBO, 

Since  tiie  Promulgation,  of  the  Charier  of  1833. 


1833,  October  9. 

1. — By  the  Kandian  Law,  the  consent  of  the 
Son  is  not  necessary  to  enable  the  Father  to  dis- 
pose of  his  property  in  order  to  obtain  assistance 
and  support.  Such  a  requirement  would  not  only 
be  unreasonable  itself,  but  is  at  variance  with 
the  general  rules  of  the  Kandian  Law,  and  op- 
posed to  numerous  decisions. — No.  4380,  Jud. 
Com.  Kaitdi/,  (M.) 

2. — In  a  ease  between  Kandian  parties,  where 
a  person  had  transferred  certain  lands  to  enable 
him  to  procure  support ;  Held,  that  even  if  the 
deed  of  transfer  should  turn  out  to  be  invalid  as  an 
absolute  transfer,  it  should  at  least  be  considered 
that  the  transferee  had  a  virtual  mortgage  on  the 
lands  for  any  expense  which  he  might  have  actu- 
ally been  put  to  for  the  support  of  the  transferor  or 
the  payment  of  his  debts  ;  and  therefore  that  he 
had  a  right  to  hold  the  lands  as  a  security  for  re- 
payment.— Ibid. 

Oct.  12.  (M.  R.  N.) 

3. — The  British  Government  cannot  restore 
property  which,  though  confiscated  by  the  King 
of  Kandy,  had  already  been  alienated  by  grant  of 
the  King  :  for  the  Act  of  Restoration  could  only 
operate  on  property  which  still  belonged  to  the 
Crown  as  successor  to  the  rights  of  the  Kandian 
King.— No.  5344,  Jud.  Com.  Kand^,  (Coll.) 

Oct.  21. 
4. — A  party  who  claims  property  must  gain  by 
the  strength  of  his  own  title,  and  not  on  the  weak- 
ness of  that   of  the  adverse   party. — No.  6284,.. 
Gov.  Ag.  Katnapoora,  (M.) 


i8sa. 

Kandian  Law- 
Transfer — 
Consent  of  soa. 


Kandian  Law — 

Transfer  to 
procure  support 


Crown — 
Confiscatioa. 


Ejeotmerit- 
Title. 


[2] 


1S33. 

rresei-iption— 
Possession 

under 
Mortgage. 


Conditisa 
•ieeutory. 


iiaudian  Law- 
Succcssiou. 


Kandian  Law— 

Ritihts  of  a 

Widow. 


Oct.  25. 

5. — Possession  under  a  mortgage  or  temporary- 
transfer  gives  no  right  of  Prescription.  This  right 
can  only  be  acquired  by  an  occupation  adverse  to 
or  at  least  independent  of  the  claimant.  Suppos- 
ing it  to  be  an  ordinary  mortgage,  the  mortgagor 
has  a  right  at  any  time  to  recover  possession  by 
repayment.  If  however  the  mortgage — bond  has 
fixed  a  limited  period  for  redemption,  at  the  ex- 
piration of  which  therefore  the  power  of  redemp- 
tion would  be  gone,  that  would  furnish  a  substan- 
tial ground  of  defence. — No.  1814,  Gov.  Ag. 
Kandi/,  (M.) 

Oct.  26,  <M.  R.  N.) 

%. — The  Supreme  Court  expressed  its  unwil- 
lingness to  disturb  a  judgment  founded  on  an 
alleged  custom,  with  which  a  District  Court  and 
Assessors  must  be  much  more  conversant  than 
those  who  do  not  possess  the  same  advantages  of 
local  knowledge  and  experience. — No.  1554,  Gov. 
Ag.  Allipoot. 

7. — Where  a  deed  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff 
was  granted  on  a  specific  condition,  not  executed, 
but  executory ;  Htld,  that  a  failure  in  the  perform- 
ance of  such  condition  would  defeat  the  instru- 
ment ;  and  that  it  would  be  for  the  plaintiff  to 
shew  a  real  hona  fide  performance  of  the  condi- 
tion.— No.  1622,  Gov.  Ag.  Seven  EorUs. 

8. — As  regards  Succession  by  the  Kandian 
Law,  the  weight  of  authority  founded  both  upon 
opinion  and  precedent  is  in  favour  of  the  rule — - 
that  the  property  of  a  person  who  dies  leaving 
issue  by  two  wives,  should  be  divided  amongst 
all  his  children  equally  :  and  this  jwactice  would 
seem  to  be  more  consonant  with  the  principles  of 
equitable  distribution. — No.  6754,  Gov.  Ag.  Rat- 
napoora. 

^. — By  the  Kandian  Law,  a  Widow  has  a 
life-interest  in  the  estate  of  her  deceased  hus- 
band;  and  is  supposed  to  have  the  chief  superin- 
tendence and  control  of  the  whole  estate  for  life. 

No.  7044,  Gov.  Ag.  Ratnapoora. 


[3] 


Oct.  30. 

10. — Where  a  matter  has  been  referred  to 
Arbitrators  appointed  by  the  parties,  and  an  um- 
pire selected  by  the  Court,  the  award  of  the  ma- 
jority of  them  should  be  considered  final,  unless 
strong  grounds  can  be  shewn  for  doubting  the 
propriety  of  it. — No.  4462,  Jud.  Com.  Kandy, 
(M.) 

11. — Where  a  party  has  taken  a  vexatious  or 
improper  appeal  through  a  Proctor,  the  Proctor 
ought  to  be  ordered  to  pay  any  costs  which  may 
have  been  incurred  on  either  side  in  consequence 
of  such  Appeal.— No.  13236,  D.  C.  Negombo,  (M.) 

12.— The  Reg.  No.  4  of  1817,  (concerning 
Frauds  and  Perjuries,)  is  no  bar  to  an  action 
unless  specially  pleaded. — No.  3117,  S.  M.  Cal- 
pentyn,  (N.) 

Nov.  1. 
13. — Where  a  woman  had  married  in  Deega, 
and  having  subsequently  been  obliged  to  retm-n 
to  her  Deega  Village,  had  died  there  ;  Held  that 
though  on  her  return  she  was  entitled  to  support 
and  assistance  from  her  half-brother,  the  defend- 
ant, (and  this  whether  the  father  had  enjoined 
it  on  him  or  not,)  yet  that,  at  her  death,  all  claim 
upon  the  paternal  property  was  at  an  end  ;  and 
that  her  son,  (who  had  settled  in  his  father's 
Village  and  inherited  his  lands,)  could  have  no 
claim  against  the-  defendant. — No.  5137,  Jud. 
Com.  Kandy,  (M.> 

14. — No  Prescription  runs  against  the  Crown, 
either  as  regards  its  general  prerogatives,  or  as 
respects  the  Kandfan  Proclamation  of  Prescrip- 
tion.— No.  6418,  Gov.  Ag.,  Ratnapoora,  (M.) 

Nov.  2,  (M.  R.) 
15. — Where  a  party  has-  admitted  an  instru- 
ment at  the  trial,  he  cannot  bo  allowed  after  the 
decision  of  the  case  to>  retract  such  admission  as 
a  mode  of  obtaining  a  new  trial,  unless  it  can 
be  shewn  that  he  had  been  imposed  upon — a, 
supposition  which  would  be  negatived  by  the 
circumstance  of  the  admission  having  been  made 
ia  open  Court.— tNo.  5080,  Jud.  Oomi  Kandy,  (M.) 


18^:. 


Arbitration, 


Vexatious 

Appenl^- 

Costs. 


Frauds  aiid- 
Perjories. 


Marriage  iu 

Deega — 
Inlieritancc. 


rrcsoriptioti — 
Crown. 


Admissioa- 
Betraclion  of. 


IR33. 


[4] 


ment  of  Trust. 


False  Evidence 
—New  Trial. 


Bona— 
nresGripuou. 


Pressription. 


Decree — 
Force  of. 


Eaiidian  widow 
—Gift  to. 


16. — MTiere  a  party,  previous  to  his  death, 
had  enjoined  his  wife  to  give  tip  certain  lands  to 
the  plaintiif,  on  receiving  a  certain  sum  of  moviey 
as  indemnity  for  expenses  ;  Held,  that  such  an. 
injunction  would  he  an  acknowledgment  that 
tl^  deceased  had  held  the  lands  only  in  trust  for 
the  plaintifif.— No.  4901,  Jud.  Gf^m..' Kandy,  (M.) 

Nov.  18. 
17. — The   naked   assertion   in    a   Petition   of 
Appeal  that  witnesses  have  sworn  falsely  is   no 
ground  for  a  New  Trial.; — No.  4489,  Jud.  CoiQ,. 
Kandj,  (M.) 

Nov.  19. 
18. — An  instrument,  whieh  though  inconse- 
quentially termed  a  Bond  (for  in  words  there  is 
no  magic,)  is  but  a  mere  acknowledgment  of  a 
certain  sum  of  money  lent  and  advanced,  io  be 
recovered  from  the  debtor  personally,  upon  a 
condition,  is  no  actual  Bond,  and  does  not  require 
ten  years  to  be  prescribed. — No.  1315,  S.  M. 
Gcdle,  (R.) 

Nov.  20. 
19.— The  Reg.  No.   13  of  1822,  (concerning 
Prescription)  is   not   available-  as   a   ground   of 
defence,   unless   specially  pleaded. — No.    14533, 
S.  M.  Caltura,  (N.> 

20. — The  Supreme  Court  ordered  that  the 
decree  pronounced  in  a  certain  case  should  be 
limited  to  dismissing  the  plaintiff's  suit,  without 
confirming  the  defendants  in  their  possession  of 
the  land  in  dispute.  Per  Marshall,  C.  J. — "  As 
the  decree  now  stands,  other  parties  might  be 
excluded,  having  preferable  claims  to  that  of 
the  defendant.  And  by  this  means  a  fictitious 
suit  brought  by  the  friend  of  a  person  possessing 
limd  without  a  title  to  it,  might  be  made  to 
operate  in  favour  of  such  possessor  against  the 
rightful  owner." — No.  885,  Gov.  Ag.  Korne. 
galle,  (M.) 

21. — The  circumstances  under  which  a  party 
a  Kandian  woman,  had  been  put  in  possession  of 
certain  lands  by  her  brother,  were  held  to  warrant 
the  supposition  that  he  had  never  intended  that 


[5] 


ISfl!?. 


Prescvir'tion — 
Posseasii'u  mt- 
uer  Moi-lgage. 


Disiuljerison  \y 
deed. 


she  sliould  lie  turned  out  of  possession  clurins;  her 
life.  Her  state  of  destitution  after  her  first  hus- 
band's death  gave  her  a  legal  claim  upon  her 
brother  for  assistance;  and  her  receiving  a  second 
husband  at  his  hands  was  a  natural  and  sufficient 
consideration  for  the  gift  of  the  land  to  her,  at 
least  for  her  life. — Ko.  6332,  Gov.  Ag.  Korne- 
galle,  (M.) 

22. — Possession,  by  virtue  of  a  Mortgage  can 
give  no  prescriptive  right ;  the  contract  being 
always  determinable  at  the  vs-ill  of  the  Mort- 
gagor.— No.  6401,  Jud.  Com.  Kandj,  (M.) 

23. — A  deed  disinheriting  the  Heir  at  Law 
ought  to  be  proved  beyond  the  possibility  of  a 
doubt  or  suspicion.  The  not  calling  the  writer 
of  such  a  deed,  without  accounting  for  the  omis- 
sion by  death  or  other  uncontrolable  circumstance, 
lias  iu  itself  a  suspicious  appearance,  especially 
where  the  names  of  the  witnesses  are  (as  frequent- 
ly happens)  not  signed  by  themselves,  but  insert- 
ed in  the  body  of  the  instrument  by  their  assent. — 
No.  8736,  Gov.  Ag.  Kormgalle,  (M.) 

Nov.  21. 

24. — However  improbable  it  may  be  that  a  EisU  to  mUIuc 
plaintiff  should  be  able  to  disprove  the  defendant's 
ease,  still  he  ought  to  have  an  opportunity  of 
doing  so,  if  by  possibility  he  should  be  able,  ex. 
gr.,  to  prove  that  a  deed  produced  by  the  defend- 
ant is  a  forgery,  or  to  show  a  decree  of  a  Gansabe, 
which  would  have  the  effect  of  destroying  the 
defendant's  title  by  prescription. — No.  5229,  Jud. 
Com.  Kandy,  (M.) 

Nov.  22. 

25. — A  Gift  loosely  proved,  followed  by  partial 
possessien,  and  rare  exercise  of  ownership,  is  not 
sufficient  to  justify  a  decree  in.  favour  of  the 
donee. — Manabodde  v.  Marianatchy ,  Gov.  Ag. 
Matelle,  (R.) 

26. — Where  the  names  of  the  witnesses  ap- 
pear to  have  been  inserted  in  a  deed  (in  the  then 
usual  manner)  without  any  actual  signature  by 
themselves ;  Seld,  that  the  writer  of  the  deed  waa 


evidcntfe. 


Proof  of  Gift 
and  I*ossesBion. 


Witneflses  to  a 
deed. 


Wiiter. 


IRS'?. 


[6  ] 


Witnesses — 

Acquillal  from 

Peijury. 


Proof  of  fleetl- 
Material  evi- 
dence. 


Cransabe — 
Awavd  of. 


Interruption   of 
Prescription. 

Fraticis  and  Per- 
juries. 


Disinherison — ■ 
Kandian  Law. 


Partnership — ■ 
Evidence  of. 


a  very  material  mtness,  and  ou,a;lit  to  have  been 
called.— No.  349,  Gov.  Ag.  Maturatte,  (M.) 

27. — It  by  no  means  follows,  because  the  wit- 
nesses for  the  Appellant  were  acquitted  of  Per- 
jury, that  therefore  their  statement  was  true,  or 
that  the  evidence  adduced  by  the  Respondent  was 
false.— No.  412,  Gov.  Ag.  Maturatte,  (M.) 

28. — If  the  witnesses  or  the  writer  of  a  deed 
were  alive,  the  not  calling  them  necessarily  weara 
a  suspicious  appearance.  \Tbere  however  the 
evidence  was  quite  sufficient,  without  the  assist- 
ance of  the  deed,  the  decree  was  afiirnied. — No. 
6785,  Gov.  Ag.  Ratnapoora,  (M.) 

Nov.  23,  (M.  R.  N.) 

29. — The  validity  of  the  Award  of  a  Gansabe 
does  not  depend  on  the  obedience  the  defendant 
has  paid  to  it.  A  Gansabe  may  not  have  the 
power  of  enforcing  its  decrees,  but  that  ought  not 
to  prejudice  a  claim  made  and  established  before 
it.— No.  8450,  Gov.  Ag.  Komegalle,  (M.) 

30. — A  claim  before  a  Gansabe  is  a  sufficient 
inten'uption  of  prescription. — Ihid. 

31. — The  Proclamation  enacting  that  no  trans- 
fer of  land  shall- be  good  unless  attested  by  two 
witnesses,  must  be  taken  with  reference  to  the 
party  taking  the  objection.  Where  the  trans- 
feror avows  the  deed,  a  third  party  cannot  take 
the  objection. — No.  416,  Gov.  Ag.  Komegalle. 

32. — Authorities  appear  to  be  conflicting  as  to 
the  abstract  right,  by  the  Kandian  Law,  of  an 
owner  of  land  to  leave  it  away  from  his  heirs  at 
law.  The  balance  of  those  authorities  would  ap- 
pear to  be  in  favour  of  that  right. — Ihid. 

33. — To  make  a  party  liable  as  a  Partner,  it  is 
not  necessary  to  have  proof  of  a  real  and  bona  fide 
partnership  either  by  deed  or  otherwise.  If  a 
person  holds  himself  out  to  the  world  as  the 
partner  of  another,  whether  by  express  words  or 
by  the  general  tenor  of  dealings,  he  is  liable  for 
the  debts  of  his  ostensible  partner. — No,  6070 
Jud,  Com.  Kandy,  (M.) 


[7] 


1838. 


84. — Though  a  Bond  for  the  value  of  goods  sold  ^°^'^  ''y  ""« 
was  given  by  A,  alone,  it  does  not  thereby  fullow 
that  the  vendor  thereby  intended  to  look  to  him 
alone  for  payment,  or  that,  even  if  such  had  been 
-Lis  intention,  he  would  not  be  entitled  to  pursue 
his  remedy  against  a  partner  B,  if  it  ultimately  ap- 
peared that  the  latter  was  disposing  of  the  gooils 
purchased,  as  partnership  property. — Ibid. 

Nov.  25. 


35. — A  District  Judge  has  no  right  to  impose 
a  fine  upon  a  party,  unless  for  conduct  involving 
some  specific  ofi"ence,  such  as  perjury,  subornation, 
or  other  species  of  fraud,  which  would  be  cogni- 
zable as  a  criminal  offence. — No.  767,  Gov.  Ag. 
Ruanuelle,  (M.) 

Nov.  26. 

36. — A  former  decision,  if  not  between  the 
name  parties  nominally,  however  identical  their 
interests  may  be  in  reality,  will  not  prevent  evi- 
dence being  gone  into  in  a  subsequent  suit  as  to 
the  respective  rights  of  the  parties. — Semiral  v. 
Welltgalle,  Gov.  A^'.  Matelle,  (M.) 

37. — A  Donation  in  consideration  of  assistance 
to  be  rendered  to  the  Donor,  is  by  the  Kandian 
Law  revocable,  subject  in  certain  cases  to  com- 
pensation for  assistance  actually  rendered. — Do- 
dandenia  v.  Koomare,  G'ov.  Ag.  Matelle,  (M.) 

38. — Judgment  cannot  be  given  for  more  than 
is  claimed. — No.  1890,  Gov.  Ag.  Rwinvxlle,  (M.) 

Nov.  27. 

39.— The  Reg.  No.  13  of  1822,  (concerning 
Prescription)  is  no  bar  to  a  claim,  unless  specially 
pleaded. — Dewadure  v.  AllehahooH,  S.  M.  Baile- 
ipittimodera,  (N.) 

Nov.  28, 

4:0. — Where  a  party  had  left  the  country  and 
died  in  a  foreign  district,  and  the  defendant  had 
during  his  absence  performed  rajekaria  in  respect 
of  certain  lauds  mortgaged  to  him  by  such  party  ; 
Held,  1.  that  the  performance  of  this  duty  did  not 
in  effect  give  any  legal  title ;    and  2.  that  such 


Fining  »  party 
to  a  luit. 


liffi  Judicata. 


Donation-— 
Kandian  Law. 


Judgment. 


Preseriptioa. 


Performiince  of 
Ritjekana. 


13^8. 


18  1 


A'.teence. 


PlfS 


K~.  vidian. 


I'enal  Law. 


Couij^'^-'a-i'^ii- 


Chikli-cn— 
Sliai'es  of. 


KcTniitieration— 
Kevciiue  paddy. 


performance  could  not  be  considered  as  an  argu- 
m-iit  against  the  supposition  that  the  defendant 
hac4  held  in  the  character  of  mortgagee,  for  such 
an  argument  could  only  have  force  where  the 
alleged  mortgagor  had  been  present  and  could 
perform  it  himself.  The  possession  of  the  de- 
fendant, being  thus  reduced  to  that  of  a  mortga- 
gee, was  not  such  as  to  convey  -a  legal  title  by  pre- 
scription.—Ceia  V.  Mabokka,  Gov.  Ag.  Matelle, 
(M.) 

41. — In  Appeal,  the  case  should  be  considered 
open  to  revision  on  both  sides  ;  and  the  Supreme 
Court  is  bound  to  make  any  amendment  which 
Justice  seeins  to  req^lire,  though  not  asked  for 
by  the  party  for  whose  benefit  it  is  made. — No. 
192,  Gov.  Ag.  Maturatte,  (M.) 

Nov.  30,  (M.  E.  N.) 

42.— The  Proclamation  of  14.  January  1826 
is  a  penal  proclamation,  and  ought  to  be  construed 
strictly.  Before  therefore  a  decree  of  Confisca- 
tion can  be  allowed  to  operate  against  a  partj^,  it 
must  appear  beyond  all  doubt  that  he  himself  has 
been  personally  concerned  in  a  fictitious  transfer 
of  land  for  the  purpose  of  evading  the  tax  or 
duty  on  the  land.- — No.  &52,  Gov.  Ag.  Madde- 
icelletenne,  (M.) 

43. — The  fact  of  a  mother  having  given  either 
money  or  land  to  all  her  children  except  one,  (to 
whom  she  had  agreed  to  surrender  her  rights, 
provided  he  should  succeed  in  obtaining  the  re- 
storation of  certain  property  from  the  king  of 
Kandy,)  was  held  to  be  a  strong  circumstance  to 
shew  that  she  considered  him  provided  for  by  the 
land  which  he  had  recovered. — No.  379,  Gov. 
Ag.  Madewellefenne,  (M.) 

44.— The  29th  clause  of  the  Proclamation  of 
21.  November  1818,  gives  the  inferior  Chiefs 
an  absolute  right  in  a  twentieth  share  of  Revenue 
Paddy  as  compensation  for  services;  but  this 
right,  like  every  other  claim  for  remuneration 
can  only  be  supported  by  first  showing  that  the 
services  have  been  duly  and  faithfiJly  performed. 
—No.  1386,  Gov.  Ag.  Komegalle,  (M.) 


[9] 


ISSS. 


December  2,  (M.  E.  N.) 

45. — Where  no  reason  is  shewn  in  the  Petition 
of  Appeal  or  at  the  hearing  why  any  fresh  evi- 
dence which  the  appellant  proposes  to  adduce 
might  not  have  been  brought  forward  in  the  first 
instance,  he  is  not  entitled  to  a  New  Trial. — No. 
9414,  D.  C.  l<cven  Korles,  ,(M.) 

46. — Where  certain  lands,  which  had  been 
erroneously  exempted  from  Government  dues,  as 
the  property  of  a  Chief  or  Headman,  under  cl. 
23  of  th«  Proclamation  No.  21  of  1818,  were  iu 
1831  discovered  not  to  he  liable  to  the  duty  from 
which  they  had  been  exempted,  and  were  accord- 
ingly transferred  to  the  Commutation  Registry 
as  Temple  land;  Held  1,  th^  the  period  from 
which  alone  the  term  of  prescription  as  regards 
the  clai«i  of  the  Temple  would  begin  to  run,  was 
the  31st  January  1831,  when  the  lands  were  for 
the  first  time  entered  in  the  Registry  :  and  2, 
that  the  former  supposed  proprietor  could  in  such 
a  case  no  more  claim  a  prescriptive  right  of  ex'- 
emption  from  Temple-duty  than  a  tenant  holding 
land  on  rent  (the  parveny  right  to  which  should 
be  discovered  to  be  in  a  different  person  from  hitn 
from  whom  the  tenant  had  first  received  the  land,) 
could  obtain  a  prescriptive  right  to  hold  on  with- 
out payment  of  rent  to  his  new  landlord. — Gone- 
godde  v.  Waharalegodde,  Jud.  Com.  Kandjj,  (M.) 

47. — The  Supreme  Court  modified  a  Decree  by 
simply  dismissing  the  plaintiff's  claim  with  costs : 
and  per  Marshall,  C.  J. — "  The  evidence  is 
scarcely  strong  enough  in  favour  of  the  defendant 
to  warrant  a  decree  in  favour  of  the  defendant's 
mother, — a  decree  which  might  possibly  preclude 
the  rights  of  third  persons  having  preferable 
claims  to  either  of  the  parties  in  the  present  suit." 
— No.  661,  Gov.  Ag.  Madewelleterwi^. 

Dec.  4,  (M.  E.) 

48. — The  omission  of  a  land  in  the  Devale 
Begistry  is  not  sufficient  to  deprive  the  lawful 
owner  of  his  right. — Ho.  1096,  Gov.  Ag.  Kome' 
CfaUe,  (M.)' 


Fresh  Evirleno* 
—New  Trial. 


Prescription— 

■(^overnmtnt 

&  Temple-diity. 


landlord  and 

Xeuaut. 


Decree— 
Tliird  parties. 


Eegistry  of 
Landa. 


18S8. 


Possession — 

THma-facU  case. 


Evidence— 
Kotes  of. 


Fossession 

under 
Mortgage. 


Prescription. 


Oansahe — 
Award  of. 


Mes  Judicata. 


Separation. 


"Wife's  debts. 


[10] 

49. "  The    evidence  is  mucli  too  loose  and 

contradictory  on  the  plaintiff's  side  to  warrant  the 
Court  in  disturbing  the  defendant's  possession, 
■which  has  existed  for  several  years,  though  not 
long  enough  perhaps  to  give  him  an  absolute  title 
by  prescription." — No.  352,  Gov.  Ag.  Maturatte, 
(M.) 

Dec.  6,  (M.  E.) 

50. — Where  the  evidence  of  the  witnesses 
examined  by  the  Court  below  did  not  appear  in 
the  notes  annexed  to  the  proceedings,  (the  result 
only  of  the  evidence  being  mentioned  by  the 
Judge,)  the  Supreme  Court  remanded  the  case 
to  the  District  Court  with  request  to  the  Judge 
to  hear  evidence  again  on  both  sides. — No.  2816^, 
S.  M.  Belligam,,  (R.) 

61. — "  If  the  defendant's  possession  rests  on  a, 
mortgage  granted  by  the  plaintiff,  this  would  not 
give  a  title  of  prescription.  Ani  if,  as  alleged  by 
the  plaintiff,  her  son  has  performed  rajekaria  for 
the  last  8  years,  this  would  go  a  great  way 
towards  repelling  a  title  by  prescription." — No. 
250,  Gov.  Ag.  Madewelletenne,  (M.) 

52. — The  award  of  a  Gansabe  does  not  bind 
a  party,  unless  it  appears  that  he  had  made  an 
agreement  to  refer  the  matter  to  the  arbitration 
of  that  species  of  tribunal. — No.  51 73,  Jud.  Com. 
Kand^. 

Dec.  7,  (M.  R.) 

53. — Where  a  suit  has  been  dismissed,  and  no 
legal  reversal  has  taken  place,  it  must  be  consi- 
dered conclusive  and  final  between  the  parties. 
—No.  6277,  Gov.  Ag.  Komegalle,  (M.) 

54. — When  a  Separation  has  been  entered  into 
between  a  Husband  and  Wife  with  judicial  sanc- 
tion, it  should  be  adhered  to  on  the  one  side  as 
as  well  as  on  the  other  ;  and  if  the  Wife  has 
contracted  debts,  she,  and  not  the  Husband,  ought 
to  be  responsible.  Those  therefore  who  give 
credit  to  a  woman  under  such  circumstances 
know  or  ought  to  know  that  their  claim  against 
the  Husband  is  at  best  a  doubtful  one ;  and  it  is 


[in 


ISSS^. 


strument  hav- 
ing two-fold 
operation. 


their  duty  to  enquire  of  the  Hiishand  whether,  if 
they  trust  the  Wife,  they  may  do  it  with  his 
consent  and  on  his  responsibility. — No.  4509, 
Jud.  Com.  Kandy,  (M.) 

Dec.  9,  (M.  R.  N.) 

55. — Where  an  instrument  has  a  two-fold  Stamp  on  an  In 
operation,  and  the  stamp  is  sufficient  to  protect 
one  of  the  objects  which  it  contemplates,  it  may 
stand  good  for  so  much  as  is  protected  by  the 
Stamp.  Where  an  instrument  on  which  an  action 
was  brought  was  on  the  one  hand  obligatory  on 
the  wife's  relatives  for  the  Kaykootie,  and  on  the 
other  hand  binding  on  the  Husband  towards  hia 
Wife  for  the  Magger,  and  it  was  only  in  the 
former  of  these  characters  it  was  sought  to  be  put 
in  force  ;  Held  that  the  instrument  having  a 
Stamp  sufficient  to  cover  the  amount  of  the 
Kaykoolie — though  insufficient  as  regards  thei 
Kaykoolie  and  Magger  taken  together — was 
admissible  in  evidence. — No.  6814,  Prov.  0. 
Jaffna,  (M.) 

56. — A  decree  condemning  the  defendant  was 
affirmed, — "  reserving  however  to  the  defendant 
the  right  to  sue  the  plaintiff  for  the  value  of  the 
23  star-pagodas  alleged  to  have  been  paid  by  him,' 
and  also  the  value  of  any  cloth  which  he  could 
prove  to  have  been  damaged  when  received  from 
the  plaintiff;  provided  that  he  the  defendant  should 
establish  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  District  Court 
that  the  evidence  in  support  of  such  counter-' 
claim  was  not  vpithin  his  reach  at  the  previous- 
trial."— No.  5899,  Jud.  Com.  Kandy,  (M.) 

Bee.  12. 

57. — On  a  prosecution  founded  on  certain  con- 
ditions of  Sale,  imposing  a  fine  on  the  renter,  if 
he  should  sell  arrack  at  any  other  than  the  fixed 
tavern.  Held  that  the  terms  of  the  prohibition 
should  be  clearly  proved  to  have  been  broken, 
before  the  penalty  could  be  awarded :  and  that 
the  mere  possession  of  the  arrack,  without  proof 
of  its  sale,  was  insufficient. — No.  1871,  Prov.  C, 
Jaffna,,  (M.) 


Cross-action-— 
Eecoareution. 


Penalty- 
Proof. 


asss. 


C  12  1 


Credit  due  to 
Witnesses. 


Oovemment 

Grant — 
Condilions— 


f  nlfilment  of. 
Alienatioii. 


Sale  in 
Execution. 


Novation—? 

Bond— BiU  of 

£x«lwn^e. 


Titc.  14,  (M.  E.  N.) 
58. — On  a  point  -nhicli  depends  on  the  credit 
due  to  Witnesses,  it  is  always  safer  to  adopt  the 
opinion  of  the  Court  before  whom  the  witnesses 
have  been  examined,  than  that  of  a  Court  to  whom 
their  statements  have  merely  been  read  over. — 
No.  6347,  Gov.  Ag.  Kornegalle,  (M.) 

Bee.  16. 

59. — Where  Lands  had  been  granted  by  Go- 
vernment under  the  condition  that  the  grantee, 
his  heirs,  &c.  should  not  alienate  or  assign  them, 
v.'ithoul;  the  consent  of  Governmeut,  until  the 
w:hole  should  have  been  brought  into  cultivation, 
which,  by  a  previous  condition,  was  to  be  fulfilled 
within  3  years ;  Held  1,  that  it  was  to  be  pre- 
sumed, after  the  lapse  of  13  years,  that  the  con- 
ditions had  been,  duly  fulfilled;  and  2,  that  a  sale 
in  execution  was  not  an  alienation  by  the  grantee. 
—No.  7999,  D.  C.  Negomho,  (il.) 

60. — A  Sale  i*i  Execution  is  an  assignment  by 
operation  of  Law,  and  the  purchaser  must  take 
the  property  subject  to  the  same  conditions  and 
liable  to  the  same  forfeitures  as  it  was  subject 
and  liable  to  in  the  hands  of  the  original  owner. 

-rr-Ibid. 

61.-^Though  it  could  not  be  ascertained  \yhe. 
ther  a  Bond  in  question  had  been  given  before 
or  after  an  alleged  Bill  of  Exchange  ;  Held  that 
the  plaintiff  had  nevertheless  a  right  to  recover 
upon  the  higher  instrmnent,  which  had  never 
Veen  cancelled.— No.  6854,  Prov.  C.  Jaffna,  (R.> 


1834,  February  3. 

62. — A  Buddliist  Priest  is  incapable,  on  ac- 
count of  his  priesthood,  of  possessing  land  (or  of 
Bcquiring  a  prescriptive  right  thereto,)  unless  in 
trust  for  some  Temple — i.  e.  a  Wihare,  not  a  mere 
Pavsellate  living. — No.  5980,  Jud.  Ag.  Ratna- 
jioora,  (M.) 

Feb.  5. 

63. — Marriage  in  Leega  divests  the  wife  of  all 
qright  of  inheritance  to  the  property  of  her  parents. 
— No.  6i)3y,  D.  C.  Eatnapoora,  (M.) 

Feb.  6. 

64. — "When  one  party  has  a  bill  of  sale  in  his 
name,  he  is  to  be  considered  prima  facie  the 
owner  of  the  property,  and  it  is  for  the  opposite 
party  to  shew  that  he  is  not,  rather  than  for  the 
plaintiff  to  be  called  on  to  prove  that  he  is,  the 
owner.— No.  3470,  D.  0.  Pantura,  (M.) 

April  2,  (M.  E.  N.) 

65. — Payment  to  the  defenda,nt's  Accountant 
is  in  point  of  Law  payment  to  the  defendant,  and 
the  plaintiff  is  relieved  from  further  proof. — No. 
13046,  D.  C.  Negombo,  (M.) 

66. — The  foundation;  pf  the  plea  of  Prescrip- 
tion, as  regards  alleged  debts,  is  the  presumptipn 
of  payment  which  the  Law  raises  after  a'  certain 
lapse  of  time  ;  and  which  presumption  is  always 
subject  to  be  repelled  by  any  promise  of  payment 
or  other  act  by  the  defendant  inconsistent  with 
the  idea  of  pavment,  within  the  time  prescribed. 
—No.  14026,  D.  C.  GQ.lle,  (M.) 

April  30,  (M.  E.  N.) 

67.^— Where  the  cause  of  action  arose  within 
the  District,  the  plaintiff  is  equally  entitled  to  sue 
in  the  Court  of  that  district,  as  if  the  defendant 
were  resident  within  that  district. — No.  2099,  D. 
C.  Jaffna,  (M.) 


J  834. 

Baddhist  Priest 
— Property. 


Marriage  im 
Veega. 


Prima-facit 
title. 


Payment— !■ 
Agent. 


Prescription. 


JarisdiclioB. 


18S4. 


Notice — 
Service  of. 


Eegulatioii  of 
Frauds. 


Guarantee. 


Decree — 
Contempt. 


Attempt — 
Intention. 


Confiscation- 
Fictitious 
Transfer. 


[14] 

68. — Leaving  a  Notice  of  Trial  at  tte  last  plac» 
of  abode  of  the  defendant,  is  sufficient  service ; 
and  the  Court  may  proceed  to  hear  the  case  ex 
parte.— 1^0.  1497,  D.  0.  Colombo,  (M.) 

69.— The  Reg.  No.  4  of  1817,  (concerning 
Frauds  and  Perjuries)  is  intended  to  prevent  cre- 
ditors from  fixing  debts,  which  they  consider  des- 
perate as  regards  their  original  debtors,  on  solvent 
persons,  unless  the  guarantee  of  such  solvent  per- 
sons has  been  reduced  to  writing.  "VMiere  at  a 
sale  of  goods  by  the  plaintiff  to  the  defendant,  the 
latter  had  given  an  undertaking  (not  in  writing) 
to  pay  the  value  thereof  to  N.  0.  a  third  party,  to 
whom  the  plaintiff  was  indebted  ;  Held  that  this 
was  only  a  mode  of  payment ;  and  that  though  th« 
Reg.  would  have  been  a  bar  to  an  action  by  N. 
C.  against  the  defendant  upon  such  unwritten  un- 
dertaking, it  was  no  answer  to  an  action  by  the 
plaintiff  against  the  defendant  for  the  value  of  the 
goods.— No.  11850,  D.  0.  Colmnho,  (M.) 

70. — If  property  already  decided  by  both 
Courts  to  belong  to  the  plaintiff  should  be  again 
claimed  by  tlie  defendant,  or  by  any  person  act- 
ing in  his  behalf,  such  claim  must  necessarily  be 
considered  a  contempt  both  of  the  Supreme  Court 
and  of  the  Court  below.— No.  12029,  D.  C.  Co- 
lombo, (M.) 

May  3,  (M.  R.  N.) 

71. — The  mere  intention  to  land  cargo  does  not 
amount  to  an  attempt  at  lauding  under  the  Reg. 
(No.  9  of  1825  ?— )— No.  2106,  D.  C.  Jaffnapa- 
tam,  (M.) 

72. — As  to  Confiscation  under  cl.  4  of  the  Procl. 
of  14th  January  1S2B, — the  former  part  of  thia 
clause  contemplates  a  person  (not  the  Headman)- 
being  concerned  in  the  illegal  transfer  to  the  head-' 
man.  And  no  prosecution  can  be  sustained  on 
the  second  part  of  this  clause,  without  first  shew- 
ing distinctly  that  the  land  belonged  to  some 
cither  person,  and  that  the  defendant  as  headman 
was  concerned  in  taking  the  land  upon  the  ficti- 
tious transfer. —  Govt.  v.  MettewilU  O^ah,  Gov, 
Ag.  Matura,  (R.) 


[15] 


1834. 


Deega. 


Administi-atioa 
to  Widow. 


Evidence  in  a 
former  suit. 


73. — A  marriage  in  Leega  does  not  divest  the 
wife  of  her  inheritance  where  she  has  always 
kept  up  a  close  connexion  with  her  father's 
honse;  and  this  independantly  of  the  state  of 
destitution  in  which  she  may  be,  and  which  of 
itself  would  entitle  her  to  some  assistance  from 
the  estate  of  her  deceased  parents. — No.  690,  D. 

C.  Madewelletenne,  (M.) 

74. — A  District  Judge  may,  if  he  entertains 
doubts  of  the  safety  of  leaving  an  estate  under 
the  sole  control  of  the  Widow,  join  such  other 
persons  in  the  administration  as  may  appear  right 
and  fitting  to  the  District  Court. — No.  1,  D.  0. 
^mblangodde,  (M.) 

May  14,  (M.  E.  N.) 

75. — Evidence  given  in  one  case  is  not,  strictly 
speaking,  admissible  in  another  ;  every  defendant 
having  a  right  to  hear  the  evidence  of  every  wit- 
ness adduced  against  him. — Nos.  1835,  6,  7,  &  8, 

D.  C.  Colombo,  (M.) 

76. — A  District  Court  is  justified  in  dismissing  Administration- 
a  suit  on  the   ground  that  the  plaintiff  had   not       ^^™'  °^"~" 
taken  Administration   to  the  estate  of  the  party 
under  whom  he  claims. — No.  14333,  D.  C.  Cal- 
tu/ra,  (M.) 

77. — A  plaintiff  should  be  allowed  to  adduce  Presoiiption. 
evidence  to  take  the  case  out  of  the  scope  of  the 
Keg.  (No.  13  of  1822,  cl.  5),  as  for  instance  of  part 
performance  by  the  defendant  within  the  term 
prescribed,  payment  of  interest,  acknowledgment 
of  the  debt  being  still  due,  or  any  other  act  or 
expression  by  the  defendant  within  that  period, 
which  would  rebut  the  presumption  of  payment 
on  which  the  defence  of  prescription  is  founded. — 
No.  216,  D.  C.  CaUma,{M.) 

78. — A   Eeplication    would    be    unnecessary.       Pleading— 
where  a  general  denial  has  been  entered.  Though      Eeplication. 
the  7th  Rule  makes  no  limitation  of  the  right  of 
reply,  still  a  Replication,  if  utterly  useless,  may 
be  rejected  as  irrelevant,  under  the  8th  Rule. — 
Ko.  296,  D.  C.  Fantwa^fM..) 


m?4'. 


[16] 


Marriage  in 
Beena. 


lUghts  of  the 
Wife- 
Mistaken  claim. 


Marriage — not 
set  aside. 


Pawn — 
Forfeitvire  of. 


Confiscation  of 
Temple. 


Gifts  by  Priest. 


@0Temment — 
^ejudice  to. 


Conditions  of 
Sale. 


Ma>/  17,  (M.  N.). 

79. — Though  a  woman  married  in  Beena  may 
have  mistaken  the  grounds  of  her  right  (viz.  by 
inheritance),  and  rested  her  claim  on  a  gift  from 
her  mother,  there  is  no  reason  why  that  mistake 
should  prevent  her  real  claim  from  being  enforced. 
—No.  706,  D.  C.  Kandy,  (M.) 

May  21,  (M.  E.  N.) 

■80. — A  marriage  if  not  set  aside  in  the  life-timfe 
of  the  parties,  cannot  be  afterwards  interfered 
with  or  pronounced  void. — No.  343,  D.  C.  JVe-- 
gomho,  (K.) 

81.— The  Reg.  No.  6  of  1806,  cl.  15,  prohibit* 
Pawning  without  the  presence  of  a  Police  OfSaer  ; 
but  does  not  declare  that  the  owner  of  the  goods 
shall  lose  all  right  to  recover  them  back.  A  par- 
ty infringing  this  provision,  by  pawning  goods 
without  the  presence  of  the  Officer,  may  render 
himself  liable  to  punishment  for  that  breach  of 
the  law  ;  but  is  entitled  to  recover  th*  goods  on 
repayment. — No.  225,  D.  0.  Pantura,  '(BI.) 

Jfay  24,  (M.  R.  N.) 

82. — The  confiscation  of  a  Temple  and  the 
consequent  deprivation  of  the  Priest  being  ad- 
mitted ;  Held  that  such  Priest  had  no  legal  pow- 
er to  transfer  his  rights  over  the  Temple,  until 
his  restoration  :  and  consequently  that  of  all  gifts 
whether  verbal  or  by  deed,  made  by  him,  that 
which  purports  to  have  been  made  immediately 
after  such  restoration  is  the  only  one  which  he 
was  qualified  or  authorized  to  execute, — No.  523, 
Jud.  Com.  Kandij,  (M.) 

83.— The  probability  of  prejudice  to  Govern^ 
ment  is  no  reason  why  a  Court  should  hesitate  to 
do  justice  between  parties. — Qonigoda  v.  Woi* 
haraJegoda,  Jud.  Com.  Kandy,  (M.) 

May  31,  (M.  R.) 
84. — A  condition  that  in  the  event  of  any  pra- 
fit  arising  from  a  resale,  the  purchaser  (i".  e.  the 
person  on  whose  default  such  resale  takes  place,) 
should  not  be  entitled  to  such  profit,  thouo'h  he 
would  be  liable  for  any  deficiency,  may  be  a  very 


[17] 


1S34. 


bard  condition :  but  still,  if  a  pai'ty  becomes  a 
purchaser  with  the  knowledge  that  such  condition 
exists,  or  with  the  means  of  obtaining  that  know- 
ledge, if  he  chooses  to  do  so,  he  must  be  bound 
by  it.— No.  857,  Prov.  C.  Jaffnapatam,  (M.) 

June  4,  (M.  N.) 

85. — Conditions  entered  into  in  respect  of 
Government  rent,  form  of  themselves  a  contract 
merely  between  the  Government  and  the  Govern- 
ment-renters, and  are  not  binding  on  third  par- 
ties, unless  adopted  by  them. 

Where  such  conditions  had  been  adopted  by 
the  defendant,  one  of  which  was  "  to  pay  the  one- 
tenth  share  according  to  Government  condition," 
the  plaintiff  was  A«?(f  entitled  to  compensation,  not 
merely  according  to  the  then  value  of  paddy, 
but  at  the  highest  rate  at  which  paddy  had 
been  sold  at  the  place  in  question  between  the 
time  of  harvest  and  the  time  of  actual  payment. 
—So.  128,  D.  C.  Chavagacherry,  (M.) 

86. — Three  Assessors  were  held  absolutely  in- 
dispensable to  the  existence  of  a  District  Court 
under  the  Chlarter. — No.  5159,  D.  C.  Badulla, 
(M.) 

June  11,  (M.  E.  N.) 

87. — The  Creditors  of  a  deceased  debtor  are 
entitled  to  priority  over  his  Heirs. — No.  14136, 
S.  M.  Caltura,  (M.) 

88.— There  is  nothing  illegal  in  a  Proctor 
acting  as  a  Fiscal's  Deputy;  though  it  would  be 
well  that  he  should  not  act  in  that  double  capa-, 
city,  in  a  case  in  which  he  is  concerned  for  one  of 
the  parties. — Ibid. 

89.— A  Proctor  is  a  competent  witness  for  his 
client :  and  it  is  for  the  Court  to  say  how  far  his 
credit  is  affected  by  the  situation  in  which  he 
stands  towards  the  party. — Ihid. 

July  2,  (R.  N.) 

90. — A  sentence  once  passed  cannot  be  altered 
or  interfered  with,  unless  by  consent  of  the  parties 
or  through  appeal.  The  rule  38  (sec.  1  of  the 
Hules  and  Orders)  does  perhaps  carry  the  power 


Conditions- 
Third  Parties. 


Compensation- 
Calculation  of. 


Assessors. 


Priority  of 
Creditors, 


Proctoi^— 

acting  as 

Fiscal's  Deputy. 


Proctor — 

a  competent 

Witness. 


Sentence— 

cannot  be 

altered. 


ISSi. 


[18] 


Selief. 


Conflicting 
Evidence. 


fleading- 
Idbel. 


Stamp — 
"  Money.' 


Beference  to 
Arbitration. 


of  District  Courts  beyond  that  which  was  formerly 
inherent,  through  the  Government  Proclamation 
of  the  22.  January  1801,  in  Sitting  Magistrates 
and  Provincial  Courts  ;  hut  it  gives  no  authority 
to  District  Courts  to  amead  their  sentences  given 
upon  evidence  offered  and  heard  :  and  indeed  it 
may  be  a  question  whether  it  really  authorizes 
more  than  what  was  already  authorized  by  cl.  29 
of  the  Proclamation. — No.  238,  D.  C.  Chavaga' 
cherry,  (R.) 

91. — EeKef  in  cases  of  manifest  Mistake  is  of 
two  kinds.  Judicial  or  Sovereign.  Judicial  relief 
is  granted  in  the  Court  itself  in  which  the  suit  is 
depending ;  and  hence  it  can  amend  error  in 
pleading,  admit  further  evidence,  and  do  other 
passing  acts,  such  as  are  provided  for  in  cl.  23 
of  the  Proclamation  of  the  22.  January  1801. 
Sovereign  relief  is  necessary  in  the  resolution  of 
contracts  on  the  ground  of  Fraud,  Fear,  &c. ; 
and  this  must  be  administered  through  appeal  to 
a  higher  tribunal. — Ihid. 

July  9,  (R.  N.) 

92. — In  cases  of  conflicting  evidence  the 
Supreme  Court  is  rarely  disposed  to  question  the 
judgment  of  the  Court  below  as  to  the  relative 
degrees  of  credit  due  to  the  Witnesses. — No.  21, 
B.  C.  WeUHffame,  (N.) 

July  23,  (M.  R.  N.) 

93. — The  claim  of  the  plaintiff  should  always 
appear  at  the  commencement  of  the  proceedings, 
either  in  the  shape  of  a  written  libel,  or  of  his 
distinct  viva  voce  examination. — No.  7728,  D.  0. 
Amhlangodde,  (M.) 

94. — A  conviction  for  a  breach  of  the  Stamp 
Regulation  (No.  4  of  1827,)  was  set  aside  on  the 
ground  that  the  Regulation  only  made  it  penal  to 
take  receipts  for  Money  without  stamp,  but  not 
receipts  for  other  things. — No.  94,  D.  C.  Chava- 
gacherry,  (M.) 

July  30,  (M.  N.) 
95. — V^liere  the  Court  below  had  referred  a 
matter  to  Gomiiussiouers  without  Any  asseut  of  the 


[19] 


188*. 


parties  either  to  the  adoption  of  that  course  as  a 
final  mode  of  decision,  or  to  the  nomination  of  the 
two  persons  chosen ;  the  Supreme  Court  ordered 
the  case  to  be  referred  back  that  evidence  might 
be  taken  on  both  sides  on  the  points  at  issue. — 
*' Where  the  parties  bind  themselves  voluntarily  to 
«ubmit  matters  in  dispute  to  sirbitration  and  to 
abide  by  the  award  made,  there  can  be  no  objec- 
tion to  this  mode  of  deciding  the  case  ;  but  in  th« 
present  instance  theOourt  below  merely'  delegated 
to  other  persons  the  duties  which  ought  to  have 
been  performed  by  itself." — No.  91,  D.  0.  Tentno' 
ratchy,  (M.) 

96. — The  word  "  Nonsuit"  isonly  applicable  to 
tlie  dismissal  of  the  plaintiff's  claim,  and  is  never 
appUed  to  a  judgment  given  against  a  defendant. 
<^No.  2989,  D.  C.  GaUe,  (M.) 

Awgvst  6,  <M.  N.) 
97. — If  the  plaintiff  can  prove  that  the  money 
recovered  against  him  by  a  third  party  had  really 
been  borrowed  from  that  party  by  the  defendant 
and  not  by  himself,  he  (the  plaintiff)  would  be  en- 
titled to  recover  it  from  the  defendant  as  so  much 
money  paid  by  him  to  the  use  of  the  defendant. 
—No.  1430,  S.  M.  Pantiiira,  (M.) 

Avg.  13,  <M.  N.) 
98. — A   decree    pronouoced   in   fevor  of  the 
plaintiff,  in  a  former  case,  to  which  the  defendant 
was  no  party,  will  not  affect  the  defendant. — No^ 
3544,  D.  C.  Fantiuru,  <M.) 

•  99. — A  party,  by  demuring,  objects  that  the 
facts  alleged  by  the  opposite  side,  supposing  them 
to  be  true,  would  nc^  establish  his  case  ;  and 
therefore  that  there  is  no  necessity  for  answering- 
8uch  allegations.  A  demurrer  is  wholly  inappU- 
cable  to  the  state  of  pleading  as  it  exists  in  thi* 
Island.— No.  130,  D.  C.  Fantura,  <M.) 

Ayg.  20,  (M.  N.) 
100. — The  institution  of  a  suit  in  a  wrong  class 
under  the  table  of  Stamps,  is  not  of  itself  a  sufifi- 
cient  ground  for  dismissal ;  but  the  plaintiff  ought 
rather  to  be  called  upon  to  supply  the  additonal 
etaoaps  required. — ^No.  378,  i>.  C.  Matura,  (N.) 


Assent  of  the 
Parties. 


Nonsuit. 


Money  psid. 


Decree- 
Third  par^. 


Demurrer. 


Stamp- 
Wrong  claet. 


IRSl. 


[20} 


Frauds  and 
"  Peijuries. 


"  Contract  in 

writing,  signed, 

&c." 


Stamp. 

Agreement  to 
Many. 


Penalty. 


Prescription — 
Adverse  title. 


Aug.  27,  (M.  R.  N.) 

101._0n  the  21st  March  1832,  the  plaintiff 
addressed  a  letter  to  the  defendant,  offering 
bim  his  gardens  for  sale  for  Rds.  800,  and  re- 
questing him  to  get  surveys  prepared.  On  the 
27th  March  the  Surveyor  made  his  surveys,  in 
.which  the  defendant  was  declared  the  purchaser, 
the  plaintiff  being  present,  stating  that  he  had 
sold  the  gardens  to  the  defendant,  and  desiring 
the  Surveyor  to  insert  the  defendant's  name  in 
the  survey  ;  Held  that  the  letter,  and  the  acts 
of  survey,  coupled  with  the  evidence  of  the  Sur- 
veyor, amounted  to  a  "  contract  in  writing  signed 
by  a  person  lawfully  authorized  by  the  parties," 
under  the  Reg.  No.  4  of  1817.— No.  109,  D.  C. 
Caltura,  (M.) 

102.— The  Stamp  Ord.  No.  4  of  1827,  (Table 
E,)  exempts  "agreements  and  contracts  to  marry" 
from .  stamp-duty.  Held  1,  that  though  this 
exemption  was  probably  worded  with  reference 
to  the  parties  themselves  contracting  the  marriage, 
it  must  be  extended  to  parents  and  guardians  in : 
those  districts  in  which  marriage -contracts  are 
always  entered  into  between  the  parents,  &c.,  on 
account  of  the  tender  age  at  which  children  are 
betrothed  to  each  other  ;  2,  that  a  penalty  of 
Rds.  300  by  which  the  parties  had  mutually 
bound  themselves  to  the  performance  of  the  con- 
tract should  not  be  considered  protected  by  thia 
exemption ;  for,  if  the  parties  introduce  a  penal 
clause  into  such  contracts  they  should  use  the 
stamp  necessary  for  such  obligations  :  and  3^  that 
as  this  stamp  was  insufficient  to  cover  an  obli- 
gation of  that  amount,  the  penalty  could  not  be 
recovered,  but  that  the  instrument  should  be  con- 
sidered as  a  valid  contract  without  penalty  for  the 
marriage  of  the  children. — No.  604,  D.  C.  Trin- 
comalie,  (M.) 

103.^ The  meaning  of  the  expression  "adverse 
title"  is  not  that  the  title  must  in  express  terms 
negative  that  of  the  claimant  (for  this  would  be 
impossible) ;  but  that  the  right  of  the  possessor 
should  not  be  derived  from  that  of  the  claimant 
as  in  the  case  of  a  tenant  holding  from  his  land- 


[21] 


}8Si. 


lord, — or  dependant  on  that  of  the  ckimant,  aj? 
when  a  person  is  allowed  to  occupy  by  permissiun 
from  the  real  owner, — or  collateral  to  it,  as  in 
the  case  of  one  of  two  joint-tenants  ; — in  other 
.words,  the  possession  must  be  such  as  is  incon- 
sistent with  the  probability  of  any  just  right  or 
title  on  the  part  of  the  claimant. — No.  1271,  D. 
C.  CMlaw,  (M.) 

104. — The  ])laintift's  witnesses  being  absent, 
and  the  plaintiff  declining  to  pay  the  expenses  of 
the  defendant's  witnesses  ;  Held  that  the  District 
Court  was  justified  in  dismissing  the  suit  ;  but 
the  case  was  referred  back  for  re-hearing,  on  the 
ground  that  the  summonses  had  not  been  served 
on  the  absent  witnesses ;  and  that  their  absence 
might  not  therefore  be  attributable  to  the  fault  of 
the  plaintiff.— No.  1270,  D.  C.  Futlam,  (M.) 

■  106. — Where  the  plaintiff's  title  to  sue  as  Ad- 
ministrator was  not  called  in  question  by  the  de- 
fendant, and  might  from  the  tenor  of  the  plead- 
ings have  been  almost  taken  for  granted  ;  yet  the 
objection  having  been  raised  at  the  trial ;  Held 
that  the  plaintiif  ought  not  to  have  been  taken 
by  surprise,  and  must  therefore  be  allowed  to 
supply  the  deficient  evidence  on  that  point. — No. 
114b«,  D.  0.  Caltura,  (N.) 

Septemher  3. 

106. — The  mere  fact  of  having  delivered  a 
Promissory  Note  to  the  plaintiff,  is  no  answer  to 
an  action,  unless  the  defendant  could  also  prove 
either  that  the  money  had  been  ultimately  paid  to 
the  plaintiff  on  account  of  the  defendant,  or  that 
the  plaintiff  ha,d  received  the  note  expressly  in 
satisfaction  of  the  debt. — No.  512,  D.  C.  Negombo, 
(M.) 

107. — Where  a  debtor  had  granted  a  Bond,  by 
which  he  bound  himself,  in  default  of  payment 
within  three  months,  to  give  possession  of  certain 
lands  to  the  plaintiff,  to  be  held  in  lieu  of  inter- 
est, and  to  be  redeemed  by  payment  of  the  prin- 
cipal simi ;  Held  that  such  Bond  should  have 
preference  over  a  subsequent  Sale,  which  must  be 
eansidered  subject  to  the  previous  incumbrance. 


Dismissal — 


Absence  of 
Witnesses. 


Title  to  sue— 

pltaileJ,  but  not 

proved. 


Promissory 

Note- 
Payment  by 
delivery  of. 


Mortgage — 
Priority  of,  oveaf 
subsequent  sale. 


1834. 


[22  J 


Kemedy  of 
Purchaser. 


Seeertion  of 
Wife- 


Amount  and 

mode  of 
Uointenimce. 


Conditions — 

Overplus  upon 

£e-«ale. 


Insanity— 
Erideuce  of. 


Service  of  Pro- 
cess. 


•B  to  whicTi  it  was  the  duty  of  the  purchaser  to 
make  enquiry.  If  the  purchaser  was  defrauded 
by  the  seller,  he  should  have  sought  his  remedy 
against  him,  and  not  against  the  plaintiff,  who 
was  no  party  to,  nor  consulted  about,  the  sale. — 
No.  3149,  U.  C.  Amblangodde,  (M.) 

108. — \Miere  a  Wife  had  sued  her  Husband 
for  having  abandoned  her  and  her  children,  and 
the  District  Court  had  directed  "that  the  wife 
should  be  quieted  in  the  possession  of  the  garden 
and  house  in  which  she  then  resided,  &c." — Held 
that  the  decree  went  further  than  the  evidenco 
(which  was  very  weak  as  to  the  wife's  possession) 
or  the  relative  position  of  the  parties  would  war- 
rant. The  Judgment  was  therefore  modified  as 
follows : — "  that  the  defendant  should  be  compelled 
to  support  the  plaintiff  as  his  wife  and  the  mother 
of  his  children,  and  to  allow  her  and  them  to 
reside  in  his  house :  and  that  if  he  should  refusa 
or  neglect  so  to  do,  the  District  Court,  on  com- 
plaint of  the  plaintiff,  should  then  award  her  a 
reasonable  proportion  of  the  defendant's  property: 
or,  if  he  should  desert  and  abandon  his  said  wife- 
and  children,  the  plaintiff  should  in  that  case  be 
put  and  maintained  in  the  undisturbed  possession 
of  the  estate,  mentioned  in  the  decree  of  the  Dis- 
trict Court." — No.  64,  D  C.  Ratnapoora,  (M.) 

109. — Where  a  previous  purchaser  of  lands 
which  had  subsequently  been  re-sold  at  his  risk, 
was  aware  of  the  conditions  under  which  he  had 
become  a  purchaser,  the  overplus  arising  from  sucli- 
re-sale  was  held  to  be  due,  not  to  him,  but,  under 
the  terms  of  the  conditions,  to  the  Government, 
as  vendor. — No.  857,  Pr.  0.  JaffnajpcOam,  (M.) 

Sept.  6,  (M.  R.) 

110. — As  the  question  of  Insanity,  except  in 
very  decided  cases,  is  a  matter  of  mere  opinion 
the  naked  expression  of  such  opinion  is  not  enti- 
tled to  any  great  weight,  unless  followed  by  an 
explanation  of  the  facts  or  circumstances  on 
which  it  is  founded. — No.  1448,  D.  0.  Islands,  (M.) 
Sept.  17,  (M.  R.) 

111. — Service  ot  a  Notice  (under  rule  13  of  sec. 
1,  Rules  and  Orders)  at  th«  house  of  the  defend- ' 


[23} 


1834. 


ant,  when  lie  could  not  be  found  so  'as  to  he  sevr- 
ed  personally,  was  held  perfectly  good  service : 
but  held  irregular  for  the  following  reasons  : — 
1,  that  the  man  named  Hendrick  Appoo  (for  it 
did  not  appear  whether  he  was  a  peon  or  not,) 
only  reported  that  a  copy  of  the  notice  had  been 
left  at  the  house  ;  whereas  the  officer  who  actually 
left  it  should  sicear  or  declare  that  fact,  as  having 
been  done  by  himself;  and  2,  that  though  a 
apace  was  left  for  the  name  of  the  Deputy  Fiscal, 
the  signature  of  that  officer  did  not  appear.  But 
again  this  irregularity  was  held  to  have  been 
waived ;  because  the  Proctor  for  the  defendant 
having  shewn  by  his  petition  of  appeal  that  the  or- 
der had  reached  either  himself  or  his  client,  (which 
is  the  only  point  really  material  as  regards  the 
information  to  be  conveyed  to  the  defendant,)  the 
object  of  the  order  had  been  fully  attained. 

It  is  absolutely  necessary  that  the  returns  to  all 
process  and  orders  of  the  District  Courts  should 
be  regularly  made,  as  given  in  the  Forms  (sec.  1, 
Sules  and  Orders,)  but  which  must  of  course  be 
varied  according  to  the  circumstances  under 
"which  the  service  was  really  made  or  attempted 
to  be  made.— No.  460,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

Sept.  24,  (M.  R.) 
112. — WTiere  a  widow,  claiming  to  sue  as  a 
pauper,  was  proved  to  be  possessed  of  lands  above 
the  prescribed  value,  but  it  appeared  that  her 
children  were  entitled  to  certain  shares  therefrom, 
the  value  of  which,  if  deducted,  would  have 
reduced  the  property  below  the  amount  pre- 
Bcribed ;  Seld  that  as  the  children  were  to  be 
presumed  to  be  equally  entitled  to  any  shares 
which  their  mother  might  recover  in  the  action, 
they  ought  either  to  be  made  parties  to  the 
action,  or,  being  interested  in  the  result,  should 
contribute  towards  the  expense  of  it.  The  per- 
mission to  sue  as  pauper  was  therefore  with* 
held.  Held  also,  that  the  permission  ought  not 
to  be  granted  to  any  one  who  does  not  come  into 
Court  free  from  all  suspicion  of  fraud  or  decep- 
tion ;  and  that  as  the  party  had,  in  her  statement, 
concealed  the  fact  of  her  being  entitled  to  land  of 
any  kind,  she  was  not  entitled  to  the  indulgence 
aoiierht  for.^No.  220.  D.  C.  Amblangodde,  (M.) 


Forms  of 
Eetvirns. 


Suit  in  forma, 
pauperii. 


Joint-oifttcti, 


Concealinent  of 
property. 


ISU. 


[24] 


Absence 
through  illness. 


Pearl-Fishery — 

Failure  of 
Consideration. 


Eight  to  a 

Eemi.ssion  of 

the  Price. 


Condition  not 
implied. 


Dowry-property 
— not  liable  to 
httsband'B  debts. 


October  8,  (M.  R.) 

113. — If  a  party  is  too  ill  to  attend  Court  on 
the  day  of  trial,  it  is  his  duty  to  send  some  person 
to  represent  and  prove  that  circumstance  to  the 
satisfaction  of  the  District  Judge,  or  to  employ  a 
Proctor  to  condiict  his  case.  And  on  these 
grounds,  the  Supreme  Court  refused  to  set  aside 
a  decree  pronounced  against  the  appellant. — No. 
2161,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S,  (M.) 

Oct.  15,  (M.  R.  N.) 

114. — The  defendant,  on  whom  the  Govern- 
ment had  bestowed  a  charity  or  temple-boat  for 
the  ensuing  pearl-fishery,  agreed,  by  a  deed,  in 
consideration  of  £300,  to  transfer  to  the  plaintiff 
the  right  of  fishing  this  boat,  (5  days'  regular  fish- 
ing being  allowed  by  Government,)  according  to 
the  price  at  which  Government  should  sell  its  other 
boats,  and  after  deducting  that  price  to  repay  the 
balance  of  the  £300  with  interest.  Owing  how- 
ever to  the  boat  not  being  provided  with  the 
necessary  licence  on  the  first  day,  that  day's 
fishing  was  lost  to  the  plaintiff,  who  brought  au 
action  to  recover  back  one-fifth  of  the  price ; 
Held  that  the  plaintiff  was  entitled  to  recover. 

After  the  fishing  was  concluded,  the  result 
having  turned  out  less  profitable  than  had  been 
anticipated,  the  Government  granted  a  remission 
to  those  who  had  purchased  boats,  of  one-third 
of  the  price;  which  remission,  also  the  plaintiff 
claimed  :  but  held  that  the  Court  could  not  in- 
troduce by  implication  a  condition  which  the  par- 
ties should  have  expressed  in  the  agreement.  The 
subsequent  remission  made  by  Government  wag 
purely  arbitrary,  both  as  to  its  being  made  at  all, 
and,  if'  made,  as  to  its  amount ;  and  the  defend- 
ant could  not  be  compelled  to  the  performance, 
as  a  duty  legally  incumbent  on  him,  of  that  which' 
was  a  mere  voluntary  act  of  indulgence  on  the 
part  of  the  Government. — No.  1967,  D.  0  Co- 
lombo, N,  (M.) 

115.  By  the  customary  law  of  the  Malabar 
Districts,  dowry-property  and  the  rents  and  pro- 
fits arising  therefrom,  are  not  ansv,-erable  for  th* 


[26] 


1631. 


Imt-band'e  debts,  and  need  nottlierefore  be  includ- 
ed in  the  statement  or  Bchedule  given  in  by  J;he 
insolvent  linsband.— No.  2089,  D.  0.  Jaffna,  (M.) 

Oct.  17,  (M.  R.) 
116. — y^liere  a  bond  expressed  an  amount  to 
have  been  "  now  received  in  cash,"  and  the  evi- 
dence as  to  the  consideration  was  to  the  effect 
that  the  plaintiff's  brother  had  previously  assign^ 
ed  to  the  plaintiff  a  debt  due  from  the  defendant 
for  which  the  defendant  afterwards  granted  to  the 
plaintiff  the  bond  in  question;  Heidi,  that 
the  variance  was  not  necessarily  fatal  to  the  plain- 
tiff's claim  ;  and  2,  that  (supposinfjf  the  defend- 
ant to  have  granted  tiie  bond  through  the  per- 
suasion of  the  plaintiffs  brother,)  the  debt  thus 
surrendered  would  form  a  perfectly  valid  consider- 
ation for  the  bond. — No.  115,  D.  0.  Jaffna,  (M.) 

117. — Double  costs  as  taxed  in  England  are  the 
amount  of  the  taxed  costs  and  half  that  amount 
added.— No.  8409,  D.  C.  Walligame,  (M.) 

118. — The  Rules  of  Practice  do  not  allow  the 
Court  to  dispense  with  further  evidence,  except 
where  it  is  considered  that  the  point  in  question 
is  already  established  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
€ourt.— No.  3897,  D.  C.  Jaffna,  (M.) 

Oct.  22,  (M.  R.  N.) 

119. — The  objection  that  a  mortgage-bond  has 
not  been  passed  before  a  Notary,  should  be  taken 
when  the  bond  is  offered  in  evidence.  Where  the 
judgment  has  been  acquiesced  in  by  the  defend- 
ant, or,  if  appealed  against,  has  been  affirmed,  it 
is  too  late  for  him  or  any  other  party  to  object 
to  any  alleged  irregularity  in  the  instrum^ent  on 
which  the  judgment  was  founded. — No.  906,  D. 
C.  CMaw,  (M.) 

120. — Though  a  District  Court  may  in  the 
first  instance  have  directed  execution  to  issue  only 
SigaiBst  the  property  of  the  defendant,  it  is  not  by 
any  means  precluded  from  subsequently  granting 
execution  against  the  defendant's  person,  if  it  see 
sufficient  reason  nnder  the  particular  circum* 
stances  of  the  case  00  to  do.— No.  1201,  D.  0. 
Colombo,  N,  (N.) 


Consideration. 


Varianoe. 


Double  costs. 


Evidence — 
dispensing  witli. 


Regulation  oC 
Frauds. 


Iks  Judicata, 


Execution 
against  person. 


ISSi. 


[26] 


Bocuments — 
Proof  of. 


Costs — 

Several  ili;fencl- 

ants. 


Res  Judicata. 


?riority  of 
Deeds. 


Delivery. 


121 . — No  documents,  nor  c-venropies  of  'lecrees, 
can  be  received  as  evidence,  inilc -a  regularly  priiv- 
ed  and  Biie\\n  to  relate  to  the  oiject  in  dispute.— 
No.  3ti5,  D.  C.  CJulam,  (?,L) 

Oct.  20,  (M.  E.  N.) 

122. — Where  one  of  five  defendants  was  the 
sole  cause  of  an  action,  the  Supreme  Court  hoM 
that  all  the  costs  incurred  in  the  case  should  be 
borne  by  him  alone. — No.  1,  D.  C.  Pantura, 
(M.) 

Novemler  19,  (M.  N.) 

123. — Where  it  appeared  that  a  former  suit, 
which  had  been  brought  against  the  same  defend- 
ants and  for  the  same  piece  of  land,  had  been  dis- 
missed ;  Held  that  such  dismissal  was  conclusive 
against  a  second  action.  If  all  the  ■witnesses  of 
the  plaintiff  had  not  been  heard  in  the  former 
case,  that  would  have  furnished  a  good  ground  of 
appeal  against  that  decision ;  but  could  afford  no 
reason  for  a  fresh  action. — No.  3369,  D.  0.  Pan- 
tura, (M.) 

Nov.  26,  (K.  N.) 

124. — Although  with  regard  to  Wills  the  rule 
of  Law  is  clear  that  the  last  should  prevail,  the 
converse,  in  general,  holds  with  respect  to  deeds 
among  v.'liich,  cffi.erts  jjarihus,  the  first  is  entitled 
to  preference.  But  in  order  to  be  entitled  to  this 
preference,  the  deed  must  not  only  be  signed, 
sealed  and  attested,  but  it  must  also  be  delivered: 
and  so  essential  a  requisite  is  deliver}',  that  of 
several  deeds,  the  one  first  delivered  will  prevail, 
even  though,  in  point  of  date,  it  be  last. 

Where  there  was  no  direct  evidence  to  shew 
when  the  deed  had  been  delivered  ;  Held  that  it 
mi,i,'ht  fairly  and  le.;ully  be  presumed,  from  a 
party's  long  possession,  that  the  delivery  took 
plaop  immediately  alter  the  execution  ;  and  such 
a  deed  would  necessarily  take  precedence  of 
another,  which,  though  prior  in  date,  was  closiged 
with  a  condition  by  wliicii  the  dehvery  of  if  was 
postponed  to  a  period  subsequent  to  the  presum- 
ed delivery  of  the  later  deed. — No.  10157,  D,  C. 
Seven  Corles,  (N.) 


[27] 


]83i. 


December  3,  (M.  N.) 

125. — Where  upon  an  application  for  Admi- 
nistration by  tlie  sons  of  tlie  intestate,  the  oppo- 
nent disputed  thflv  legitimacy,  Held  1,  that  the 
Regulation  No.  9  of  1822  could  not  be  insisted 
upon  as  necessary  for  the  establishment  of  the 
parent's  marriage,  the  provisions  of  that  Eegula- 
tion  beinij  prospective  from  the  1st  August  1822, 
previously  to  which  the  applicants  were  presum- 
ed to  have  been  born ;  and  2,  that  it  was  incum- 
bent on  the  applicants  to  offer  some  evidence 
either  of  their  mother  ha^^ng  been  married  to 
their  father,  or  of  her  having  been  treated  by 
him,  and  considered  by  the  neighbours,  as  his 
■wife.  This  evidence  having  been  offered,— and 
the  District  Court  might  safely  content  itself  with 
slight  evidence  to  this  point,' — the  presumption  of 
Law  would  be  that  the  applicants  were  the  issue 
of  that  lawful  connexion,  unless  the  opponent 
were  in  a  situation  to  offer  positive  evidence  of 
their  having  been  born  out  of  wedlock. — No. 
Vdi2,  D.  C.  Chilctw,  (M.) 

Lee.  5,  (M.  E.  N.) 

126. — YroTai^eThesawalame  (appended  to  Van 
Leeuwen's  Comm.  p.  763,  4,)  it  would  seem  that 
in  the  Northern  Province  the  right  of  Pre-emp- 
tion only  existed  where  the  party  claiming  it  held 
a  mortgage  or  some  other  claim  upon  the  land. 
At  all  events,  it  seems  the  height  of  injustice  that 
this  right  should  be  enforced,  except  on  payment 
of  the  highest  price  which  any  other  person 
would  offer  for  the  land.  The  right  must  be 
founded  on  the  contiguity  of  the  land  to  be  sold 
to  that  already  possessed  by  the  party  seeking  to 
exercise  the  ri.L'ht.  To  him  therefore  the  land 
must  be  more  valuable  than  to  others,  and  he  oiight 
consequently  to  pay  the  best  price  which  could  be 
got  for  it.— No.  210,  D.  C.  Tenmoratehj,  (M.) 

127. — Although,  by  the  Stamp  Regulation,  a 
Receipt  is  inadmissible  in  evidence  unless  duly 
stamped,  there  is  nothing  to  preclude  a  party 
from  proviu  ;  :in  .dl-iged  pa  ,  merit  hy  less  decisive 
e\'idence. — xS'o.  IbbJ,  D.  0.  JbatUuaioa,  (N.) 


Evidence  ot 
Marriage. 


Eight  of  Pre- 
emption, 


Eeceipt— 
8tamp. 


1834. 


[28] 


Heintiff's  Ven- 
dor. 


pauper — 

Certificate  of 

Proctor. 


Tuzuuiary  pay- 
ment. 


Title  l)y  Pre- 
scription. 


Creilitor — 
when  bound  to 
retvrni  a  Pledge. 


Dec.  10. 
128  —A  plaintiff  is  entitled  to  have  liis  vendor 
Bummoned  as  a  co-defendant  to  ^^•arrant  and 
defend  his  title  to  the  prcpejity  m  dispute,  or 
to  call  him  as  a  witness  to  prove  his  right  to 
dispose  of  the  properly  ;  but  the  former  is  the 
more  preferable  course  as  in  the  event  of  the 
vendor's  failure  to  make  out  his  title,  he  may  be 
decreed  to  repay  to  the  plaintiff  the  amount  of 
his  purchase  money -—No.  2194,  D.  C.  Battkaloa, 
(N.) 

Bee.  17,  (M.  B.  N.) 

129. — A  Proctor,  to  whom  the  petition  to  be 
allowed  to  defend  in  forma  pauperis  had  bees 
referred,  having  certified  that  the  petitioner  had 
not,  in  his  opinion,  a  g6od  ground  of  defence ; 
Held  that  the  District  Court  was  bound  by  the 
Eules  of  Practice,  to  reject  the  petition. — No^ 
414,  D.  C.  Wadi7)ioratchij,  (M.) 

Dec.  22,  (M.  N.) 

130. — Where  a  man  has  paid  money  voluntari- 
ly, he  cannot  recover  it  back  merely  on  the  ground 
that  the  person  receiving  it  could  not  have  enforc- 
ed hia  claim  in  a  Court  of  Law. — No.  58,  D.  C. 
Hamhantotte,  (M.) 

131. — A  title  acquired  by  Prescription  would 
not  be  affected  by  any  irregularity  in  the  instru- 
ment under  which  the  claimant  first  obtained 
possession. — No.  1953,  D.  C.  Idands,  (M.) 

132. — A  creditor  is  not  bound  to  deliver  up 
a  pledge  until  the  whole  of  the  money  advanced 
by  him  upon  it  has  been  paid.  He  is  therefore 
justified  in  refusing  to  accept  the  tender  of  a 
Bmallar  amount,  or  to  deliver  up  the  pledge  ;  and 
the  costs  of  a  suit  brought  by  the  debtor  for  the 
recovery  of  the  pledge  should  fall  exclusively  oa 
himself.  It  would  seem  sufficiently  hard  on  a 
creditor  that  he  should  have  been  kept  out  of  his 
money  for  several  years  without  interest  or  any 
advantage,  except  the  use  of  the  thing  pledged. 
But  on  this  point  the  Supreme  Court  felt  bound 
to  recognize  tlie  custom  stated  by  the  Assessors 


[29] 

as  I'cgnlatmg  this  description  of  dealin.s;  in  the 
District  oi'Oiiilaw.— No.  1823,  D.  0.  Chilaw,  (SI.) 

133. — A  dismissal  or  non-suit  in  a  former  case 
is  not  conclusive  against  the  plaintiff,  if  he  could, 
iu  a  subsequent  action,  shew  by  evidence  not  in 
his  possession  at  the  former  trial,  that  at  the  time 
{ex-,  gr.)  of  tlie  alleged  trespass  he  was  the  legal 
proprietor  of  the  land. 

A  receipt  of  the  pm'oha?p-money  paid  for  such 
land,  dated  two  years  after  tlie  cause  of  acticn  had 
accrued,  is  not  sufficient  evidence  that  the  plain- 
tiff was  the  legal  owner  of  the  land  at  the  time 
the  defendant  committed  the  act  complained  of. — ■ 
No.  84,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

134. — EeUl,  that  though  the  word  "Bond"  had 
been  used  by  the  parties  in  their  pleadings,  yet,  if 
the  instrument  was,  in  truth,  a  mere  agreement, 
it  would  be  governed  by  the  prescription  of  three 
years  :  and  2,  that  the  nature  of  the  contract,  by 
which  the  defendant  had  engaged  to  supply  to  the 
plaintiff  a  certain  quantity  of  areca-nuts  within 
twenty  days  from  the  date,  made  it  improbable 
that  the  plaintiff  would  have  allowed  six  years  to 
elapse  after  the  defendant's  default,  without  su- 
ing for  it.— No.  216,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

Dec.  29,  (M.  R.  N.) 

135. — The  Charter,  in  directing  that  the  deci- 
sions or  awards  of  Gansahes  should  be  respected, 
never  contemplated  a  party  having  recourse  to  that 
jurisdiction,  after  proceedings  had  been  instituted 
before  a  more  regular  tribunal.  The  parties  should 
resort  to  that  mode  of  decision,  before  the  com- 
mencement of  au  action  in  the  District  Court. — 
No.  1780,  D.  C.  CMlaw,  (M.) 

Dec.  31,  (M.  R.  N.) 

136. — If  the  defendant  were  resident  in  a  re- 
mote district,  it  would  be  hard  upon  him  to  be 
sued  in  another  court  merely  because  one  item  of 
a  long  aecoimt  had  its  origin  within  its  jurisdic- 
tion ;  but  where  the  defendant  resides  in  an  ad- 
joining district,  it  can  be  no  hardship  on  him  to 
fee  ealled'  upon  to  aHswer. — ^No.  1434-,  D.  C.  Galle-. 


iSii. 


Dismissal — 
Nonsuit. 


Evidence  of 
ownership — 


"  Bond"— 
Agreement. 


Prescription. 


Jurisdiction  of 
Gansabes. 


Jurisdiction-— 
Besideuce. 


IBU. 


;  i'ftr  the 
whole  voyage. 


en 


Parole  engage- 
ment of  Sea- 
men. 


ftesoriptlon — 
SeiTJoes. 


Previous  de- 
mand. 


Beasonable 
time  for  per- 
formance. 


[80] 

137. The  ftefpnclantp  (Seamen)  tad  aarreed  for 

av!>',ao-e  froiii  IJinnbay  to  MadvfiH  or  < 'iiluiitta  ; 
and  thiT,  was  held  to  include  detention  for  _  nef.es- 
sary  repairs.  In  refusing  therefore  to  remain  with 
the  vessel  during  such  detention,  and  to  proceed 
with  her  afterwards,  the  defendants  were  guilty 
of  a  breach  of  their  engagement,  for  which  they 
would  be  liable  in  damages,  if  the  Master  could 
shew  that  by  their  desertion  he  had  really  sustain- 
ed a  loss. 

The  Master  having  brought  his  action  to  comw 
pel  the  Seamen,  by  the  authority  of  the  Conrt,  to 
return  to  the  vessel ;  ffeld  that  it  was  necessary 
that  he  should  have  complied  with  the. Act  of 
Parliament  which  permits  the  exercise  of  such  - 
authority,  by  having  had'  his  contract  with  the 
seamen  reduced  to  writing.  Not  having  done  so, 
he  could  only  avail  himself  of  the  ordinary  action 
for  damages.-^PowZier  v.  Cader,  D.  C.  GaJle,  (M.) 

138. — The  Proclamation  of  the  18th  Septem- 
ber 1819  bars  actions  for  the  enforcement  of  ser- 
vices or  to  recover  possession  of  land  for  refusal 
to  perform  them,  where  it  appears  that  the  party 
claiming  them  has  allowed  ten  years  to  run  with- 
out demanding  th'e  performance  of  them. — No. 
7190,  D.  C.  Ratnapoora,  (M.) 

139.- — lu  an  action  on  a  bond  for  money  bor- 
rowed by  the  defendants,  who  thereby  promised 
that  certain  deeds  about  to  be  executed  in  their 
favor  should  be  delivered  to  the  plaintiff,  who 
should  then  receive  a  mortgage  for  the  amount 
due  on  this  and  other  bonds,  all  of  which  should 
then  be  retu;rned ;  Held  1,  that  no  previous  de- 
mand of  performance  was  necessary  on  the,  part 
of  the  plaintiff,  because  the  defendants  having  un- 
dertaken to  perform  certain  things,  which,  when 
performed,  would  have  furnished  a  substitution 
of  the  bond  in  suit,  it  was  for  the  defendiints  to 
perform  those  engagements,  if  they  wished  to  re- 
lieve themselves  from  their  liability  under  the 
original  bond  ;  and  2,  that  (no  time  having  been 
fixed)  three  months  and  a  half  allowed  a  reason- 
able time  for  the  performance  of  what  was  to  be 
done.— No.  493,  D.  0.  CaH?jt,ra,  (M.) 


1835,  January  14. 

14:0. — In  declaring  a  party  to  be  confirmed  in 
the  possession  of  any  land,  the  decree  must  be  li- 
mited to  his  right  as  against  the  adversary  in 
that  particular  suit,  and  cannot  be  taken  as  a^'ainst 
the  rest  of  the  world. — No.  6311,  D.  0.  Ratna- 
poora,  (M.) 

Jan.  21. 

141. — The  evidence  of  a  person  to  whom  a 
matter  has  been  referred  for  investigation  may  be 
of  great  weight  ;  but  wiiere  a  party  has  given  no 
consent  to  the  matter  being  referred  to  the  de- 
cision of  an  Arbitrator  or  Umpire,  he  cannot  be 
bound  by  the  award. — Kirihntcoemhoere  v.  Pare- 
coemhbre,  Jud.  Com.  Kandy,  (M.) 

Jan.  28. 

142. — Where  Security  in  Appeal  had  been  re- 
ceived by  the  District  Court,  though  the  time 
prescribed  had  elapsed,  it  was  presumed  that  it 
had  been  proved  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  District 
Court,  according  to  rule  5  of  section  viii,  that 
the  omission  was  not  imputable  to  any  negligence 
on  the  part  of  the  appellant ;  and  the  Supreme 
Court  therefore  did  not  hesitate  to  receive  the 
appeal.— JSTo.  1869,  D.  C.  Chilaw,  (M.) 

February  4. 

143. — Where  the  defendant,  by  his  answer, 
had  admitted  the  plaintiff's  claim,  but  it  did  not 
appear  that  he  had  tendered  it  previous  to  action; 
Held  that  the  plaintiff  might  have  had  judgment 
for  the  same  at  once,  and  that  all  further  pro- 
ceedings were  unnecessary.  It  was  therefore  or- 
dered that  tbe  costs  should  be  taxed  against  the 
defendant  up  to  the  time  of  filing  answer  inclu- 
sive, and  those  incurred  subsequently  to  filing  the 
answer,  against  the  plaintiff. — No.  7S20,  D.  C. 
Batnapoora,  (M.) 


]R30. 

Decree — 
iThii'd  parties. 


Reference  to 
Arbitration. 

Consent  of  the 
parties. 


Security  in 
Appeal. 


Tender 
Costs. 


nS35. 


Possession 
of  deed. 


Minority. 


Necessaries. 


Temple-pro- 
pertj. 


Construction 
of  deed. 


Condition  im- 
plied. 


Donation — 


Grotrnd  for  Ee- 
vocation. 


Qualification 
for  Office. 


[32] 

144. — The  poEPCssion  of  an  inBtrumcrit  by  fhe 
plaintiff  is  a   presumption  against  the  jiaymcnc  of 
the  money  due  thereon,  though  certainly  not  con- 
clusive.—JSfo.  14516,  D.  0.  Caltura,  (JI.) 
Feb.  7. 

145. — If  it  can  be  proved  that  a  party  was  open- 
ly engaged  in  trade,  his  minority  would  be  no  plea 
to  an  action  :  or  if  the  money  claimed  agaiaist  him 
v;ere  advanced  for  the  necessaries  of  life,  either 
himself  or  his  father  is  liable  for  the  amount.  The 
plea  of  Minority  is  a  defence  which  should  be 
admitted  with  some  catition,  lest  it  should  be 
made  the  means  of  defeating  a  creditor  of  a  debt 
justly  due  to  him  and  incurred  by  the  minor 
tinder  circumstances  which  in  justice  ought  to 
preclude  his  sheltering  himself  under  a  supposed 
incapacity  to  enter  into  contracts. — No.  864,  D. 
C.  Negombo,   (M.) 

Feb.  11,  (M.  N.) 

146. — 'V\Tiere  a  party  (Francisco  Caporede) 
had  by  deed  "  allowed  the  plaintiff  the  Temple  at 
Uggahbodde,  and  authorised  him  to  officiate  there- 
in, whenever  he,  Francisco,  should  be  unable  to 
attend  to  it,  or  after  his  death  ;  taldng  charge  of 
the  said  Temple  together  -with  the  things  requir- 
ed for  the  office  of  Caporale;  Held  1,  that  this 
was  not  a  transfer  of  the  property  of  the  Temple, 
but  merely  an  authority  to  the  plaintiff  to  officiate 
at,  and  take  charge  of  the  Temple  as  Francisco's 
deputy  in  case  of  his  illness,  or  as  his  successor  in 
case  of  his  death  ;  2,  that  to  the  enjoyment  of 
these  pri\ileges,  one  condition  should  be  consider- 
ed as  annexed,  because' it  was  essentially  necessary 
to  such  enjoyment,  viz.,  that  the  plaintiff  should 
qualify  him.siJf  to  perform  the  duties  of  his  office ; 
and  3,  that  even  if  tke  deed  were  to  be  con- 
sidered as  a  donatio  inter  vivos,  the  non-fulfilment 
of  this  necessarily  implied  condition,  would  have 
furnished  the  donor  with  a  sufficient  ground  of 
revocation.— No.  640,  D.  C.  Caltnra,  (M.) 

147. — Where  it  was  contended  that  a  party 
(defendant)  was  incapable  of  succeeding  to  the 
office  of  Caporale,  on  the  ground  that  he  was 


[33] 


T83S. 


Insolvent — 
may  sue,  when. 


ilesoended  from  a  female  branch  of  ib.e  family  of  Cannot  be  ques- 
the  original  Caporale  ;  the  Supreme  Court,  with-  Woned,  when. 
out  entering  into  that  question,  held  that,  as  it 
appeared  that  the  plaintiff,  not  being  himself 
self  qualified  to  act  as  Caporale,  had  agreed  with 
the  defendant  that  the  latter  should  do  the  duties, 
he  could  not  be  permitted  to  argue  that  the  defend- 
ant was  legally  disqualified  from  performing  rites 
■which  the  plaintiff  had  himself  employed  him  to 
perform. — Ihid. 

Feh.  20,  (M.  R.  N.) 

148. — The  rights  of  an  Insolvent  pass  to  his 
creditors  on  his  receiving  the  benefit  of  the  In- 
solvent Act.  But  it  would  be  hard  and  unjust 
towards  him,  if  he  were  precluded,  by  the  disin- 
chnation  of  his  creditors  to  take  proceedings,  from 
recovering  debts  which  may  enable  him  to  dis- 
charge a  part  of  those  for  which  his  future  pro- 
perty is  still  hable. 

"VSTiere  a  party  who  had  been  declared  an  in- 
solvent, had  brought  an  action  for  recovering 
money  ;  which  action  was,  on  the  objection  being 
taken,  dismissed ;  the  Supreme  Court  referred  the 
case  back  to  give  the  plaintiff  an  opportunity  of 
giving  notice  of  such  aetion  to  his  creditors  or 
their  le^al  representatives,  and  of  making  them 
parties  to  the  suit  if  they  wished  it.  If  they  de- 
clined interfering,  the  plaintiff  was  to  be  allowed 
to  continue  tbe  action,  but  only  in- the  nature  of  a 
trustee  for  his  creditors,  to  whose  use  any  sums 
recovered  bv  the  plaintiff  would  be  received  and 
held  by  the  Court.— No.  1875,  D.  C.  AlUpoot, 
(M.) 

149. — Where  a  party  had  the  assistance  of  a» 
experienced  Proctor,  it  was  held  that  the  plea  of 
ignorance  could  not  be  received  as  a  plea  for  not 
having  summoned  the  necessary  witnesses. — No. 
1029,  D.  C.  Jaffna,  (M.) 

150.— Where  the  District  Court  recommended 
a  plaintiff  "  to  recover  the  costs  from  the  Odear," 
(on  account  9f  whose  alleged  neglect,  the  plaintiff 
had  been  obliged  to  abandon  his  suit ;)  Held 
that  this  was  not  a  decree  by  which  the  Odear 


Fgnoranee. 


Decree— 

Eecommenda- 

tion. 


1830.  t   34   ] 

could  be  compelled  to  pay  the  costs,  without 
heing  himself  heard  in  a  separate  action. — No. 
442,  D.  0.  Jaffna,  (M.) 

Conviction.  151.— The  plaintiff  is  bound  to  point  out  the 

CI.  oftheKegn.  q\^-^^q  of  the  Regulation  on  which  he  asks  for  a 
conviction. — No.  1281,.  R.  v.  Neyna  Moliamadoe, 
D.  C.  Trincomalie,  (M.) 

Prescription—  152. — In  an  action  to  recover  certain  lands,  it 
Interruption  of.  appeared  that  the  defendant  had  previously  com- 
menced an  action  against  the  plaintiff  for  disturb- 
ance of  his  possession,  which  however  he  had  not 
pressed  to  a  conclusion  ;  but  it  was  in  evidence  that 
the  defendant  had  been  in  possession  ever  since 
his  purchase,  remaining  in  possession  during  such 
suit,  and  continuing  in  possession  up  to  the  pre- 
sent action  ; — Held  that  the  mere  circumstance  of 
the  defendant  having  commenced  the  previous 
action  which  he  did  not  press  on,  was  not  suffi- 
cient to  bar  the  right  of  prescription  which  his 
possession  had  conferred  upon  him. — No.  1623, 
D.  C.  Batticaha,  (M.) 

15S. — Where  a  Husband  had  sold  dowry-pro- 
perty under  circumstances  which  shewed  that 
the  wife  must  have  been  cognizant  of  the  trans- 
action, and  the  (Wife  the  parties  being  Mahome- 
dans)  contended  that  she  had  given  her  husband  no 
authority  to  dispose  of  it,  and  that  by  the  Ma- 
homedan  Law  he  had  no  right  to  dispose  of  it 
without  such  authority ;  per  Marshall  C.  J. — 
"  If  this  were  so,  the  Law  would  be  made  the  in- 
strument of  gross  fraud, — a  purpose  to  which  no 
Code  of  Laws  should  ever  be  aUbwed  to  be  appli- 
ed."—No.  2461,  D.  C.  Batticaloa,  (M.) 

154. — If  the  title  deeds  of  any  property  be  in 
the  hands  of  the  owner,  there  is  nothing  to  pre- 
vent a  stranger,  or  any  one  not  acquainted  with 
the  fact  of  a  sequestration  of  the  property,  from 
buying  the  property  or  taldng  it  in  mortgage; 
the  possession  of  the  muniments  being  prima- 
facie  evidence  of  the  right  to  sell  or  dispose 
of  such  property. — No.  2696,  D.  C.  BatHmloa, 


A  previona 
Action. 


Dowry- property 
— Sale  by  Hus- 
band, 


Title-deeds — 
Possession  of. 


[35] 


1835. 


165. — Wliere  an  order  had  been  made  on  the 
lOth  Nov,,  that  notices  sliould  issue  for  the  ap- 
pearance of  the  parties  on  the  24th  of  that  month; 
and  it  appeared  that  the  notice  had  not  been 
issued  to  the  plaintiff  till  the  17th,  and  not  served 
On  him  till  the  22nd  ;  Held  that  the  time  allowed 
to  the  plaintiff  was  insufficient ;  and  the  case, 
which  had  been  struck  off  on  account  of  the  plain- 
tiff's non-attendance,  was  ordered  to  be  restored 
to  the  list,  to  be  proceeded  with  in  due  course. 
—No.  569,  D.  0.  Caltura,  (M.) 

Feb.  23,  (M.  E.  N.) 
156. — A  will  executed  in  the  Isle  of  France 
must  be  transmitted  to  and  proved  in  Ceylon  for 
the  property  in  this  Island. — No.  6047,  D.   C. 
Kandy,  (M.) 

157. — On  a  question  as  to  the  preferent  right 
to  Administration  between  the  Widow  and  the 
Brother  of  the  deceased  (the  parties  being  Maho- 
medans),  it  was  held,  upon  the  opinion  of  Moor- 
ish Assessors,  that  if  the  widow  had  a  son  or  two 
or  more  daughters,  she  would  be  entitled  to 
administration  in  preference,  the  joint  interest  of 
the  widow  and  children  being  greater  than  that  of 
the  brother  ;  but  if  no  children  or  only  one  daugh- 
ter, the  brother  having  a  greater  interest  would 
have  a  preferabie  claim. 

In  this  case,  it  appeared  that  the  widow  was 
married  to  her  opponent,  the  brother  of  the 
deceased  ;  and,  she  complained  of  having  suffered 
ill-treatment  from  the  opponent ; — Held  that  such 
ill-treatment,  if  proved,  would  be  of  importance 
in  the  case ;  first,  as  tending  to  show  that  the 
interest  of  the  children  would  probably  be  neg- 
lected ;  and  secondly,  as  entitling  the  widow,  (if 
administration  should  be  granted  to  her  husband,) 
to  expect  good  security  from  him  for  her  share. — 
No.  20,  D.  C.  Matura,  (M.) 

Feb.  25,  (M.  E.  N.) 
158. — Where  the  plaintiff  claimed  a  share  in 
certain  lands,  on  the  ground  that  he  had  possessed 
them  jointly  with  the  defendant ;  but  it  appeared 
that  the  occupation  by  the  plaintiff  and  his  mother 
had  only  been  by  permission  of  the  defendant; 


Service  of 

Process. 

Insufficimt 

time. 


Foreign  'Will. 


Adminisfcratiott— ' 
Preferent  right. 


Character  of 
Applicant, 


Possession  ^sy 
pei'miseion. 


1833. 


[36  J 


Action  against 

a  late  officer  of 

a  Templo. 


Transfer  of 

Cases. 


H»ld  that  if  this  ground  were  allowed  to  be 
valid,  every  similar  act  of  charity  or  kindness 
might  be  construed  into  an  adverse  possession  by 
which  a  prescriptive  title  might  be  acquired. — 
No.  168,  D.  C.  MatelU,  (M.) 

March  5. 

159. —  In  an  action  against  a  late  Basnaike 
Nillvme,  it  was  held  that,  in  the  absence  of  any 
evidence  of  fraud,  peculation  or  embezzlement  of 
the  offerings  or  produce  belonging  to  the  Temple, 
the  defendant,  being  out  of  office,  was  no  longer 
responsible  in  respect  of  them  to  the  plaintiff  (an 
Unanse),  who  should  consequently  seek  redress 
from  the  ofSciating  Basnaike  Nilleme. — No. 
1776,  D.  C.  Allipoot,  (N.) 

160. — Where  it  appeared  that  the  District 
Judge  of  the  South  Court,  who  had  previously 
been  the  District  Judge  of  the  North  Court,  had 
heard  the  whole  of  the  evidence  in  a  case  pending 
in  the  latter  Court,  and  had  been  removed  to  the 
former  Court  before  he  could  enter  up  judgment, 
the  Supreme  Court,  on  the  motion  of  the  plaintiff 
and  with  consent  of  the  defendant,  ordered  the 
case  to  be  transferred  to  the  South  Court  under 
the  36th  clause  of  the  Charter,  on  the  ground  that 
the  case  was  ripe  for  decision  and  that  justice 
would  be  more  fully  and  effectually  done,  if  it 
Were  decided  by  the  same  Judge. — No.  11553 
and  No.  11353,  D.  0.  Colombo,  N,  (N.) 

Mar.  11. 
Reg.  of  Fratids— '     161. — Where  an  agreement  appeared  to  have 
notretrospeo-     been  made  in  1815;    ^«M  that  the   Regulation 
against  Frauds  passed  in  1817  could  not  apply. — 
No.  11876,  D.  0.  Caltura,  (N.) 


Absence  on  the 
day  of  Trial. 


162. — A  case  was  remanded  to  the  District 
Court  for  hearing,  on  condition  that  the  appellant 
should  prove,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  District 
Judge,  the  assertion  in  his  Petition  of  Appeal,  viz. 
that  he  had  attended  the  Court  on  the  day  fixed 
for  the  trial,  but  too  late  to  be  present  when  the 
case  was  called  on.— No.  11456,  D.  C.  CoiUra, 


[37] 


183S. 


Mar.  25. 

163. — A  party  who  attempts  to  deceive  or  vaii- 
Icad  the  Court  may  be  fined,  under  rule  29.  sec. 
i.  of  the  Rvks  and  Orders.—'iso.  13682,  D.  C. 
Galle,  (N.) 

164:. — A  person  who,  by  his  own  shewing,  has 
been  so  grossly  careless  as  to  pay  off  a  bond  with- 
out obtaining  either  a  receipt  or  the  bond  itself 
from  the  creditor,  should  be  left  to  protect  himself, 
as  he  best  may,  from  the  consequences  of  his  own 
negligence  and  folly,  in  the  event  of  his  being 
sued  for  the  amount  of  the  bond  ;  but  it  would 
be  a  dangerous  precedent,  were  so  solemn  an  in- 
strument recoverable  by  legal  process  from  the 
hands  of  the  creditor  upon  the  mere  parole  evi- 
dence of  two  witnesses  as  to  payment,  especially 
in  a  country  where  such  evidence  is  too  readily 
obtainable.— No.  4627,  D.  0.  Colombo,  A'",  (N.) 

Aj>ril  1,  (il.  ¥.) 

165. — A  case  was  remanded  to  the  District 
Court  in  order  that  the  sgn  of  the  defendant,  who 
appeared  to  have  been  the  real  purchaser  at  a 
Kscal's  sale,  might  be  summoned  as  a  defendant, 
and  that  the  case  might  be  proceeded  with  and 
decided  as  if  the  son  had  been  originally  a  party  ; 
and  it  was  field  that,  though  it  might  be  singular 
that  the  plaintiff  should  have  made  no  opposition 
to  the  sale  at  the  time,  yet  he  was  entitled  to  have 
his  evidence  heard. — No.  543,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

166. — Though  a  debt  is  admitted  by  the  An- 
swer, yet  if  it  be  not  accompanied  by 'payment  of 
the  money  into  Court,  the  plaintiff  is  entitled  to  his 
costs.— No.  918,  D.  C.  A^egomho,  (M.) 

167. — If,  in  consequence  of  the  plaintiff's  re- 
fusal or  neglect  to  admit  any  facts  stated  in  the 
defendant's  Answer,  evidence  has  become  necessa- 
ry for  the  purpose  of  establishing  those  facts,  and 
such  facts  appear  to  have  been  truly  stated,  the 
expenses  incurred  by  the  defendant's  witnesses 
Bhould  be  borne  by  the  plaintiff. — Ibid. 

168. — Where  the  applicant  for  Administration 
hswi  failed  to  tender  security  to  the  satisfaction  of 


A  party  to  a 

euiL  may  be 

fined. 


Proof  of 
rayment. 


Action  to 
recover  Boivl 
from  Creditor. 


A  person 
subsequently 
joiDed  as  a 

defendant. 


Non-opposition 
at  a  Sale. 


Claim  not 

tendered — 

Costs — 


Expenses  of 
Witnesses. 


Administration— 
Security. 


1835. 


Proctor — 
Absence  of. 


rre^^cilption — ■ 
rrevious  title. 


Variance. 


Defamation. 


[38] 

the  District  Court  on  the  daj^  appointed  for  that 
purpose,  the  Supreme  Court  directed  the  admin- 
istration to  be  granted  to  some  person  better  able 
and  willing  to  perform  the  duties  of  that  office. 
—No.  1923,  D.  C.  Chilaw,  (M.) 

169. — No  private  interests  ought  to  induce  a 
Proctor  to  quit  his  post  without  either  obtaining 
the  consent  of  all  parties  to  the  postponement  of 
such  cases  as  might  otherwise  come  on  in  his 
absence,  or  else  transferinj?  his  cases  with  the 
consent  of  his  respective  clients  to  other  hands. 
And  where  a  case  had  been  struck  in  consequence 
of  the  Proctor's  absence,  the  Supreme  Court  or- 
dered it  to  be  restored  to  the  list,  on  payment  by 
him  of  the  costs  incurred  on  the  day  of  hearing 
by  both  parties.— No.  12241,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

170. — Evidence  shewing  that  prior  to  the  com- 
mencement of  the  term  of  prescription,  the  party 
had  no  just  claim,  does  not  aifect  the  prescriptive 
title.— No  183,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (N.) 

April  8,  (M.  N.) 

171. — The  libel  stated  that  the  debt  in  ques- 
tion had  been  "  assigned  by  A.  to  the  plaintiffs, 
in  trust  for  the  creditors  of  the  said  A  ;"  but  the 
deed  of  assignment  produced  by  the  plaintiffs 
stated  the  transfer  of  the  debt  to  have  been  made 
to  the  plaintiffs  "  to  their  own. proper  use  and 
benefit  for  ever,"  without  referring  to  the  cre- 
ditors or  to  any  trust ,- — Held  that  the  plaintiffs' 
claim  should,  on  this  ground,  be  dismissed  ;  for 
the  deed,  instead  of  supporting  the  plaintifTs 
claim,  contradicted  the  character  of  trustees  for 
the  creditors,  which  was  assigned  to  them  by  the 
libel.— No.  3740,  D,  C.  Colombo,  JST,  (M.) 

172. — Where  the  expression  used  by  the  de- 
fendant, though  indecent  and  improper,  yet  ap- 
peared to  have  been  uttered  in  a  moment  of  heat 
and  irritation,  as  mere  idle  abuse  and  ^vithout  any 
intention  of  seriously  imputing  illegitimacy  to  the 
father  of  the  plaintiff,  or  of  reflecting  on  the  cha- 
racter  of  that  person  or  his  family,  the  Supreme 

Court  decreed  each  partv  to  pay  his  own  costs. 

No.  767,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 


[39] 


lfi35. 


April  13. 

173. — A  Proctor  who  quits  the  District  where- 
in he  has  practiced,  leaving  his  business  undone 
and  unproyided  for,  renders  himself  liable  for  any 
damage  which  his  clients  may  sustain  by  such  de- 
reliction. Where  however  no  damage  has  been 
sustained  beyond  loss  of  time,  it  is  sufficient  to 
order  that  the  Proctor  do  account  to  his  clients 
for  the  sums  received  by  him  on  their  account. — 
Pet.  of  W.  D.  Pauloe,  (M.) 

May  2,  (M.  R.  N.) 

174. — The  Law  raises  a  contract  by  implica- 
tion only  where  the  parties  have  failed  to  state 
their  agreement  in  express  terms.  The  defend- 
ant had  promised  the  plaintiif,  who  was  a  Medi- 
cal Practitioner,  that  "  if  he  succeeded  in  curing 
the  defendant,  he  should  be  handsomely  paid  for 
his  trouble"  ; — Held  that  the  plaintiff,  having 
failed  to  cure  the  defendant,  could  not  recover. 

A  stipulation  that  the  plaintiff  should  forfeit 
all  remuneration  in  case  he  fails  to  cure  the  de- 
fendant, does  not  affect  the  validity  of  the  con- 
tract ;  and  unless  contrary  to  some  positive  law 
or  order,  is  binding. — No.  3352,  D.  C.  Colomho, 
S,  (M.) 

175. — A  defendant  is  not  absolutely  precluded 
from  applying  to  defend  as  a  pauper,  because  the 
application  had  not  been  made  in  the  first  instance ; 
for  misfortunes  may  befall  a  party  during  the 
progress  of  the  suit,  which  may  incapacitate  him 
from  pursuing  his  defence,  though  he  may  have 
been  in  circumstances  to  commence  it  in  the  or- 
dinary manner. — No.  6319,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S, 
(M.) 

176. — Where  the  plaintiff  sued  an  administra- 
trix for  the  funeral  expences  incurred  by  him  ; 
and  it  appeared  that  the  latter  had  already  filed 
her  final  account ;  Held  that  the  lapse  of  time 
was  a  sufficient  ground  for  dismissing  the  suit. — 
No.  1965,  D.  C.  OMlaw,  (M.) 

177. — Certain  property  of  C.  M.  had  been  s'e- 
qnestered  by  Government  (under  the  Reg.  No. 
7  of  1809)  in  Nov.  1828.    In  Aug.  1832,  C.  M. 


Pi'octor 

neglecting  his 

duty. 


Implieci 
Contract, 


Eemuneration 
of  Medical 
Practitioner. 


Application  to 

defend  in  fornui 

pauperis. 


SequCTtration— ■ 
Waiver  ef. 


1835. 


[40] 


Stamp — 

Registry  of 

Cartoms, 


Evidence — 

Copies 
inadmissible. 


being  dead,  his  administrator  sold  the  property  to 
the  plaintiff  hy  a  notarial  deed  attested  by  the 
Head-derk  of  the  Cutchery,  (who  had  previous- 
ly been  Secretary  to  the  Court  which  grantedtlre 
sequestration).  Shortly  after  such  sale,  publica- 
tion was  made  of  the  property  to  satisfy  the  claim 
of  the  Government. — Held  that  the  length  of 
time  suffered  to  elapse  between  the  sequestration, 
and  publication,  the  allowing  the  title  deeds  and 
keys  to  remain  in  the  possession  of  C.  BI.,  (which 
would  always  enable  the  possessor  to  hold  him- 
self out  to  the  world  as  the  legal  proprietor,)  and 
the  execution  of  the  deed  by  the  officer  who,  of 
all  persons,  must  be  supposed  to  have  been  best 
acquainted  with  the  sequestration,  if  it  had  been 
matter  of  such  notoriety  (as  was  contended  for  by 
Government),  must  all  be  considered  as  amount- 
ing to  a  waiver  on  the  part  of  Government  or  its 
officer  to  avail  itself  of  the  sequestration. — No. 
2696,  D.  C.  Batticaloa,  (M.) 

178. — On  n,  question  as  to  the  admissibility  in 
evidence  of  a  Cartom,  it  appeared  that  it  had 
been  the  custom  to  enter  the  Cartonis  themselves, 
the  originals,  in  a  public  book  kept  by  the  Go- 
vernment Agent  for  that  purpose,  and  that  these 
entries  had  never  been  made  on  stamp  ; — Held,  as 
regards  these  entries,  that  it  would  be  impossible 
to  declare  a  stamp  to  be  necessary  without  invali- 
dating the  whole  Registry  of  these  instruments, 
— an  injustice  which  would  be  so  much  the  great- 
er, that  the  custodier  of  thsm  was  of  all  othors  the 
most  likely  to  object  to  the  want  of  the  requisite 
stamp,  and  whose  acquiescence  in  these  un- 
stamped entries  must  therefore  have  been  the  best 
assurance  to  the  public  that  stamps  were  unneces- 
sary.—No.  6095,  D.  C.  Jafna,  (M.)  See  also 
Circuit  Minutes,  9.  July,  1834. 

179. — In  the  foregoing  case  a  Moorish  Priest 
had  stated  in  evidence  that  the  original  Cartom 
was  a  bare  agreement  for  the  marriage,  and  that 
before  that  agreement  could  be  carried  into  effect, 
a  copy  should  be  taken  on  stamp;  but  Held 
tliat  the  recognition  of  such  a  doctrine  would  be 
subversive  of  a  well-known  and  essentially  useful 
rule  of  evidence,  that  a  copy  should  never  be 


t*!} 


1S33. 


received  in  evidence  where  the  original  could  be 
procured. — Ibid. 

180. — In  an  action  by  the  Government  for  the 
value  of  a  certain  quantity  of  paddy  issued  to  the 
defendant  by  a  Government  store-keeper,  the 
defendant  disputed  the  claim  on  the  ground  that 
the  store-keeper  was  not  bound  to  issue  the  paddy, 
and  that  he  ought  not  to  have  done  so  without 
the  signature  of  the  Government  Agent ; — Held 
that  this  might  possibly  be  true,  but  it  did  not  by 
any  means  lessen  the  defendant's  liabihty.  The 
Servant  may  he  wrong  in  dehvering  the  Master's 
property  to  another,  but  the  person  obtaining  it 
would  still  be  responsible  for  its  value.— No. 
2095,  D.  C.  Trincomalie,  (M.) 

181. — It  would  be  the  height  of  injustice  to 
deny  a  defendant  credit  for  sums  paid  by  him  and 
received  by  the  plaintiff  or  hie  servants,  merely 
because  for  some  reason  (whether  good  or  bad  is 
of  no  importance)  it  was  not  considered  right  to 
grant  him  receipts.  If  it  was  not  intended  to 
credit  him  with  the  payments,  the  sums  paid 
should  have  been  returned  to  him. — No.  1397, 
D.  C.  Trincomalie,  (M.) 

182. — The  plaintiff  appealed  on  the  ground 
that  she  was  not  a  party  to  certain  former  suits, — 
and  literally  speaking  this  was  true  ;— but  as  it 
appeared  that  her  son  had  been  a  party  to  those 
suits,  and  his  interests  were  identical  with  those 
of  the  plaintiff;  Held  that  it  was  the  same  thing 
as  if  the  parties  were  individually  the  same.— 
No.  1855,  D.  C.  Kandy,  (M.) 

May  6,  (M.  N.) 

183. — Notes  of  Hand  which  do  not  contain 
any  words  importing  the  liberty  of  transfer  to 
third  parties  (such  as  "  or  order,"  "  or  bearer",  &c.) 
cannot  be  viewed  in  the  light  of  negotiable  in- 
strnments  or  bills  of  exchange  by  which  the 
maker  or  drawer  holds  himself  out  as  uncondition- 
ally liable  to  the  holder,  whoever  he  may  be  ;  but 
must  rather  be  considered  as  simple  acknow- 
ledgments of  debts  due  by  the  party  granting 
them  to  tibe  particular  persons  therein  mentioned, 


Master  and 

Servant — 

Contract  with 

the  Servant. 


Money  paid 

■without  taking 

Receipts. 


Decree — 

■when  binding 
on  Third 
Parties. 


Unnegotiable 
instruments. 


18S5. 


[42] 


Dismissal- 

Nousuit. 


Aprilication  to 

sue  i't  forma 

pi.">vcris — 

Former  decree. 


Eecommenda- 
tiou  to  eue. 


Prescription  of 
Judgments. 


Civil  anfl  Cri- 
minal sviit. 


Proetor'a  costs- 
Two  Answers. 


and,  like  any  other  debts,  carrying  with  them,  if 
transfered  to  third  parties,  the  same  condition  and 
liabihty  to  objection  which  originally  attached  to 
them.  And  as  the  words  "  value  received"  would 
not  preclude  the  plea  of  want  of  consideration  as 
against  the  original  creditors,  neither  can  they  as 
against  a  third  party  who  has  merely  stepped  in- 
to their  situation.— No.  5232,  D.  0.  Kandy,  (N.) 

184. — A  dismissal  for  want  of  sufficient  proof 
is  only  in  the  nature  of  a  non-suit,  and  will  not 
bar  the  plaintiff  from  establishing  his  claim  in 
another  action. — No.  2U27,  D.  0.  Islands,  (IM.) 

185. — ^'^^lere  there  was  a  former  decree  against 
the  plaintiff,  which  the  District  Court  considered 
decisive  of  his  claim ;  Held  that  the  Judge  was 
right  in  rejecting  his  application  to  sue  as  a  pau- 
per ;  but  that  the  party  was  still  at  liberty  to 
commence  his  action  in  the  ordinary  way. — No. 
445,  D.  0.  Walligame,  (M.) 

186. — It  by  no  means  follows  that  because  a 
criminal  prosecution  against  the  same  defendant 
has  been  dismissed,  and  the  complainant  has  been 
recommended  to  bring  a  civil  action,  he  must  ne- 
cessarily succeed  in  the  latter  suit. — No.  87,  D. 
C.  Tenmoratchy ,  (M.) 

187. — Judgments  are  not  mentioned  in  the 
Eeg.  No.  13  of  1822,  (concerning  Prescription,) 
nor  do  they  fall  within  the  intention  of  it.  The 
only  term  that  would  bar  a  iudgment  would  be 
such  a  lapse  of  time  as  would  form  an  irresistible 
presumption  that  it  had  been  either  satisfied  or 
released.— No.  1096,  D.  C.  Caltwra,  (M.) 

188. — Where  a  party  has  been  punished  cri- 
minally for  a  wi-ong  committed,  it  ia  discretion- 
ary with  the  Court  whether  it  will  entertain  a  ci- 
vil action  for  the  same  act  or  not. — No.  1035  D 
C.  Galle,  (M.) 

189.— Where  a  Proctor  filed  an  Answer  for  the 
first  defendant,  and  the  next  day  filed  another 
Answer  for  the  second  defendant,  in  precisely  the 
same  words,  he  was  disallowed  both  the  stamp  and 
his  own  fee  for  the  second  answer.  A  separate 
Answer  can  only  be  necessary  where  the  defend- 


[43] 


1835. 


ants  make   distinct  and  several   defences. — No. 
406,  D.  0.  Amhlangodde,  (M.) 

190.— Where  the  plaintiff  sought  to  recover,  Money  p«M. 
among  other  sums,  the  amount  of  a  debt  which 
he  had  engaged  to  pay  (but  had  not  as  yet  paid) 
to  a  third  person  on  behalf  of  the  defendant  ; 
Held  that  the  demand  was  premature  ;  but  in 
order  to  prevent  unnecessary  expense,  the  Su- 
preme Court  ordered  that  when  the  plaintiff 
should  have  satisfied  the  debt,  he  should  be  allow- 
ed, on  proof  thereof,  to  have  judgment  entered 
up  for  it  without  a  fresh  action. — No.  6106,  D. 
C.  Kandi^,  (M.) 

May  9,  (M.  R.  N.) 

191. — The  Supreme  Court,  having  consulted      Separation — 
eight  Moorish  Assessors,  transmitted  the  follow-   fMlhometo^V 
ing  as  their  opinion,  for  the  guidance  of  the  Dis- 
trict Court  of  Madewelletenne,  in  a  case  pending 
there : 

1.  That  if  a  wife  leave  her  husband  of  her 
own  desire  and  contrary  to  his  wishes,   neither 

-she  nor  any  one  on  her  behalf  can  claim  any  re-* 
turn  of  the  dowried  property ; 

2.  But  if  the  husband  turn  her  out  of  hia  house, 
or  desert  her,  she,  or  any  one  duly  authorised  to 
act  for  her,  may  recover  back  such  property ; 

3.  If  they  separate  by  mutual  consent,  such 
separation  should  be  made  the  subject  of  an  agree- 
ment, which  should  specify  the  terms  on  which 
the  separation  is  to  take  place,  and  the  proportion 
of  property  to  be  restored  by  the  husband  to  the 
wife. — No.  98,  D.  C.  Madewelletenne,  (M.) 

192. — ^In  an  action  in  which  the  plaintiff  com-  Cause  of  action- 
plained  that  certain  property  belonging  to   him     Disputiui;;  the 

'  had  been  inserted  in  a  hat  of  Appraisement  iiled  pl^^'i^f's  tide, 
hy  the  defendants,  and  prayed  that  such  property 
might  "  be  restored  to  him"  ;  it  was  objected  by 
the  defendants  that  the  plaintiff  asked  J  or  tiie 
restoi'ation  of  property  which  was  still  iu  iiia 
possession;  but  the  Supreme  i  ourt  held  that  the 
act  complained  of  was  a  sufficient  ground  of  ac- 

■  tion.  iiiirl  over-ruled  the   objection,   uUi.'.vine-  the      Amendment, 
■plaintiff's  hbel  to  be  amended  by  suustitutiug  ior 


1835. 


[44  1 


Defence,  «s  Ad- 
ministrator. 


Defendant  in 
default — 

Non-join-ler  of 
Plaintilfs. 


Personal  deli- 


the  words  "  restored  to  the  plaintiff,"  the  words 
"  struck  out  of  the  List  of  Appraii^ement." 

The  defendants  indeed  asserted  their  right,  as 
administrators,  to  the  property,  and  only  pray- 
ed that  the  action  mii,'ht  be  dismissed,  in  order 
that  they  might  institute  proceedings  to  obtain 
possession  ;  but  held  that  this  was  a  course  which 
could  only  be  suggested  for  the  purpose  of  delay 
or  swelling  the  costs, — either  of  which  objects  is 
contrary  to  the  duty  of  Administrators ; — and  that 
there  was  no  reason  why  the  real  right  to  the 
property  might  not  be  tried  in  the  action  already 
pending. — No.  333,  D.  C.  Amhlomgodde,  (M.) 

193. — Where  a  defendant  filed  no  Answer,  but, 
on  the  day  of  trial,  attempted  to  rely  on  the 
partnership  of  the  plaintiff  with  another  person ; 
Held  that  he  should  have  pleaded  that  partner- 
ship, so  that  if  it  existed  the  partner  might  have 
been  joined  in  the  action ;  and  that  it  was  too  late 
to  make  the  objection  at  the  trial. — No.  460,  D. 
C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

194. — There  is  nothing  in  rule  21,  sec.  i.  of  the 

"witaeslel"  -^."^^«  ^  ^-'■'-de'^^,  to  oblige  a  party  to  deliver  his 
List  of  Witnesses  in  person  or  by  proctor ;  nor 
does  the  nature  of  the  document  require  it ;  and 
there  seems  therefore  no  reason  why  this  document 
should  not  be  sent  by  a  servant  or  even  by  the 
post,  provided  it  shew  on  the  face  of  it  enough  to 
inform  the  officer  of  the  Court  in  what  case  and 
on  whose  behalf  it  is  sent,— the  party  of  course 
taking  the  risk  of  the  instrument  not  arriving.— 
No.  llyS,  D.  0.  Caltura,  (M.) 

195. — The /ac<  of  a  plaintiff's  property  having 
heen  taken  in  execution  would,  if  true,  be  a  mat- 
ter of  jjublic  notoriety,  which  might  be  legally 
proved  without  the  production  of  the  writ.  The 
legality  of  the  seizure  would  depend  on  the  regu- 
larity of  the  process  and  the  due  execution  of  it. 
—No.  706,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

196. — Whatever  may  be  the  weight  of  an  ob- 
jection taken  during  the  trial  of  a  case,  it  ought 
not  to  be'allowed  to  stop  the  progress  of  the  case 
by  an  immeciiate  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court, 
By  rule  27  of  sec.  i.  the  objecting  party  has  the 


Evidence- 
Proof  of  a 
Seizure  in  Exe- 
cution, 


Objections 

during  Trial — 

Appeal. 


I  45  ] 


1835. 


Opportunity  reserved  to  him  of  appealing,  after  tlie 
decree  is  passed,  against  any  evidence  iinproperly 
received. — Ibid. 

Matj  16. 
197. — Where  it  appeared  that  the;  land  in  ques- 
tion was  situated  in  the  district  of  Madewelleteune, 
and  that  the  second  defendant,  who  was  the  only  real 
defendant  in  the  caae,£fepded  within  that  "disMct ; 
the  Supreme  Court  or|iored  the  case  w^liich  had 
been  instituted  in  t]ip  M^trict  Court  of  Matelle  to 
be  transmitted  t^^^  District  Court  qf'Madewelle- 
tenne,  to  be  the^^roeeeeded  in  and  decided.  If 
the  plaintiff  \\je^^^rmitteii  tc/^carry  on  the  suit 
in  the  former  Court  na«nsJyloQ  the  ground  of  the 
first  defendant  (who  itT^eared  m^de  no  claim 
to  the  land,)  having  been  joined  in  the  action,  a 
plaintiff  might  always  choose  the  Court  in  which 
he  would  prefer  his  action  to  be  tried,  by  includ- 
ing as  defendant  a  person  wholly  uninterested  in 
the  matter  at  issue.— No.  632,  D.  C.  Matelle,  (M.) 

Mai/  18. 
198. — Where  the  security  bond  in  appeal  ap- 
peared to  have  been  received  by  the  Court  below, 
notwithstanding  the  time  prescribed  by  rule  3  of 
sec.  viii.  had  elapsed  ;  Jleld  that  it  must  be  pre- 
sumed to  have  been  "  proved  to  the  satisfac- 
tion of  the  District  Court  that  the  omission  was 
not  imputable  to  any  negligence  on  the  part  of 
the  Appellant,"  (rule  6). — No.  459,  D.  C.  Am- 
hlangodde,  (M.)— Bee  also  No.  152,  D.  C.  Ma- 
telle, (20.  May,  1835.) 

May  20,  (M.  N.) 
199. — Where  a  party  had  engaged  himself  as 
surety  in  appeal  for  another,  viz.,  that  the  latter 
should  "  well  and  truly  perform  and  abide  by  the 
judgment  which  should  ultimately  be  pronounced 
by  the  Supreme  Court ;"  and  the  Supreme  Court 
had  referred  the  case  back  to  the  District  Court, 
AWth  directions  that  the  District  Judge  "  should 
receive  further  evidence  and  thereupon  give  his 
judgment ;"  Held  that  such  subsequent  judgment 
of  the  District  Court  became  virtually  the  judg- 
ment of  the  Supreme  Court,  and  was  binding  ott 
the  surety.— No.  6220,  D.  0.  Kandi/,  (M.) 


Juris  cUctioii, 
where  th^  de- 
fendants reside 
in  several  dis- 
tricts. 


Seeimty  in 

•Appeal  received 

after  laiise  of 

Time, 


Secnrity  in 
Appeal — 
Ultimate  judg- 
ment. 


1835. 


[46] 


Costs- 
One    of  several 
defendants  con- 
demned in. 


Bes  Judicata, 


Sequestration — 
Costs. 


Appeal  nnder 

rule  5,  see.  viii. 

Merits. 


Appeal  after 

lapse  of  Time — 

Belief. 


200. — Wtere  the  plaintiff  had  needlessly  join- 
ed a  party  as  defendant,  and  at  the  trial  the  Dis- 
trict Court  had  absolved  the  first  defendant  and 
pronounced  a  decree  against  the  second  defend- 
ant condemning  hiai  alone  in  costs,  the  Supreme 
Court  modified  the  decree  by  "  condemning;  the 
second  defendant  in  the  cost  of  the  suit,  except 
those  incurred  by  the  first  defendant,  which  are 
to  be  borne  by  the  plaintiff."— No.  633,  D.  C. 
Colombo,  No.  2,  (M.)* 

201. — Where  a  defendant  pleaded  that  a  judg- 
ment had  been  improperly  obtained  in  the  late 
Provincial  Court ;  Held  that  if  true,  he  should 
have  appealed  against  it,  and  that  to  allow  a  de- 
fendant to  question  the  propriety  of  the  former 
decision  by  the  present  action  would  be  to  make 
the  present  District  Court  sit  in  appeal  on  judg- 
ments pronounced  by  those  tribunals,  which  had 
been  sitperseded  bv  the  .District  Courts. — No. 
1486,  D.  C.  Jaffna,  (M.) 

202. — "\"\'here  a  Sequestration  had  been  set 
aside,  but  the  District  Court  at  the  same  time  re- 
corded its  opinion  that  "  tliere  had  been  circum- 
stances of  suspicion  sufficient  to  justify  the  seques- 
tration," the  Supreme  Court  directed  that  each 
party  should  pay  his  own  costs. — No.  6565,  D.  0. 
Kaiidij,  (M.) 

203.- — On  proceedings  being  referred  to  the 
Supreme  Court  to  decide  on  the  allowance  or  re- 
jection of  an  appeal  under  rule  5  of  sec.  viii.,  it 
may  examine  the  merits  of  the  case  to  see  if  there 
exists  any  ground  for  the  appeal. — No.  152,  D. 
C.  Matelle,  (M.) 

*  In  this  case  the  above  order  seems  to  have  been  granted 
bj"  way  of  relief  on  an  application  by  the  second  defeudait, 
long  after  the  lime  for  appealing  had  elapsed,  as  may  be  ga- 
thered from  the  sequel  of  the  order  : 

"  If  the  decree  bad  been  more  explicit,  and  had  ordered  ex- 
prrssly  that  the  second  defendant  should  pay  the  costs  of  the 
first  defendant  as  M'ell  as  tliose  of  the  plaintiff,  the  second  de- 
fendant would  have  been  bound  to  appeal  against  that  part  of 
the  judgment ;  and  if  he  had  faUed  so  to  do,  he  might  now 
perhaps  be  without  relief  But  as  the  decree  stands,  the  se- 
cond defendant  may  have  supposed  till  the  demand  was  made 
by  the  iiist  defendant,  tliat  it  was  only  iiUende,!  to  make  him 
ha. lie  for  the  costs  of  the  adverse  jiarty,  especially  as  his  Ua- 
bility  could  not  legally  be  extended  further ." 


147] 


183u. 


3Iay  27,  (M.  R.  N.) 

204. — A  defendant  appealed  on  tiie  grouiiu 
that  a  certain  table  (the  value  of  which  he  was 
condemned  to  pnj')  had  not  been  sold  but  only 
lent  to  him,  and  that  if  the  cause  of  action  had 
been  truly  stated  in  the  libel,  he  would  have  had 
the  option  of  returning  the  table  to  the  plaintiff ; 
but  the  Supreme  Court  held  that  in  order  to  make 
this  a  just  and  equitable  ground  of  defence,  the 
defendant  ought  (instead  of  drily  denying  that 
he  was  indebted  to  the  plaintiff,)  to  have  set  it 
forth  in  his  answer  as  that  on  which  he  intended 
to  rely,  accompanying  it  with  a  tender  of  the 
table.  [It  appeared  that  the  defendant  having 
received  the  table  from  the  plaintiff,  had  left 
Kandy  without  giving  any  directions  as  to  its 
being  restored,  so  that  the  plaintiff  might  not 
unreasonably  have  concluded  that  the  defendant 
intended  to  convert  that  which  was  originally  a 
loan  into  a  purchase]. — No.  5420,  D.  0.  Kandy, 
(M.) 

205. — In  order  to  support  an  objection  to  a 
party  applying  for  the  indidgence  to  sue  as  a  pau- 
per, it  is  not  usual  or  necessary  to  frame  a  hst  of 
property  and  file  the  same  in  Court,  and  thereby 
put  the  party  to  an  unnecessary  expense. — No. 
493,  D.  C.  Amblangodde,  (M.) 

June  3,  (M.  R.  N.) 

206. — There  is  no  term  of  prescription  as 
regards  applications  for  or  the  issuing  of  Letters 
of  Administration.  "WTiere  however  a  District 
Court  has  directed  Letters  of  Administration  to 
be  taken  out,  it  must  be  presumed  that  the  Court 
was  satisfied  that  the  interests  of  the  parties  con- 
cerned made  such  a  measure  expedient 

Where  a  party  appears  to  the  citation  and 
prays  that  Administration  may  be  granted  to 
himself,  ha  cannot  afterwards  question  the  neces- 
sity of  Administration. — No.  1923,  D.  C.  Chilaiv, 
(M.) 

Jvne,  10  (M.  R.  N.) 
207. — Where  an  Appeal  had  been  taken  from 
a  judgment  of  the  Supreme  Court  to  the  King 


Defence — 
Geuei'al  denial. 


Loan — 
Purchase. 


Application  to 

sue  in  forma 

pauperis, — 

Opposition  to. 


Administration- 
Prescription. 


A  pai*ty  when 

precludtrd  from 

questioning 

necessity  for 

Administration. 


Appeal  to  the 
Privy  Council — 


1886. 


[48] 


Troceedinge  in 
a-espect  of  Secu- 
lilor  in  Appeal. 


Insanity — 

LiaLiJity  of  the 

Father. 


Arbitration. 


Agreement  of 

Widow  previous 
t»  Administra- 
tion. 


in  Privy  Council,  Perring  for  the  respondent,  on 
tlie  10."  June  1835,  moved  for  an  order  on  the 
appellant  to  shew  cause  why  the  appeal  should 
not  be  declared  abandoned,  on  the  ground  that 
no  fresh  step  had  been  taken  since  the  filing  of 
the  petition  of  appeal.  (7.  March  1835.)  Mile- 
brand  for  the  appellant  stated  that  the  sureties 
were  ready,  but  that  he  had  waited  until  the  case 
should  have  been  heard  in  review.  It  was 
however  ordered,  by  consent  of  the  parties,  that 
the  security  should  be  taken  by  the  District 
Court  of  Kandy,  and  the  security-bond  forward- 
ed to  the  Supreme  Court  before  the  17th  instant, 
on  which  day  it  was  ordered  that  the  case  should 
be  heard  in  review,  provided  the  security  should 
have  been  then  perfected,  in  default  of  which  the 
Court  would  entertain  the  motion  for  declaring 
the  appeal  abandoned  for  want  of  compliance  with 
the  11th  condition  of  cl.  52  of  the  Charter. — No, 
6047,  D.  C.  Kandi/,  (M.) 

June  13,  (M.  E.  N.) 

208, — On  an  action  against  two  defendants  for 
money  lent  to  the  first  defendant,  the  son  of  the 
second,  the  latter  pleaded  that  the  first  defendant 
was  insane  ;  but  the  Supreme  Court  held  that 
even  supposing  the  first  defendant  to  have  been 
out  of  his  mind  at  the  time  of  the  loan,  it  was 
the  duty  of  his  father  to  have  taken  those  steps 
which  the  law  justifies  and  calls  upon  him  to 
take  for  placing  his  son  under  that  restraint  which 
would  prevent  him  from  obtaining  money  from 
others,  who  might  not  be  aware  of  the  state  of 
his  intellect.— No.  1194,  D.  C.  Walligame,  (M.) 

June  17,  (M.  R.  N.) 

209.— -Suitors  cannot  be  forced  to  submit  to 
Arbitration;  but  where  they  themselves  desire 
that  course  to  be  adopted,  they  cannot  object  to 
the  award.— No.  8364,  D.  C.  Tenmoratchy,  (M,) 

210.— VSTiere  a  Widow,  before  obtaining  adr 
ministration  to  her  Husband's  estate,  agreed  to 
assign  certain  lands  to  her  three  sons,  after  she 
should  have  obtained  administration';  the  Su- 
preme Court  afarmed  the  judgment  of  'the  Court 


[49] 


ISSj. 


telow  in  setting  aside  the  agi-eetnent,  on  the 
ground  that  it  must  either  be  an  engagament  to 
adniinister  the  estate  according  to  law  and  there- 
foie  superfluous,  or  an  undertaking  to  deviate 
from  sneh  course  and  therefore  fraudulent  and 
illegal.— No.  2291,  D.  C-.  Batticoloa,  (M.) 

211. — On  an  application  for  Edictal  Citation, 
vhere  the  citations  having  been  duly  returned, 
the  certificate  had  been  refused  on  the  ground 
that  there  v.as  another  person  equally  interested 
wath  the  applicant,  \^  ho  had  not  joined  and  whose 
share  had  not  been  set  apart :  the  Supreme  Clourt 
lield  that  the  applicant's  prayer  to  be  allowed  to 
amend  was  perfectly  reasonable  and  w&s  no  more 
tlian  is  done  in  ordinary  suits,  where  a  party  has 
been  omitted  by  inadvertence  ;  and  referred  the 
case  back  in  order  that  such  other  person  might  be 
called  in  and  have  an  opportunity  of  joining  in  the 
application,  or,  if  he  refused,  that  his  share  might 
be  excluded  from  the  proceedings. — No.  436,  D. 
C.  Awhlangodde,  (M.) 

212.— (See  §  206  s«p.)  Carr,  K.  A.,  on  behalf 
of  the  appellant  to  the  King  in  Privy  Council, 
produced  an  affidavit  touching  the  execution  of 
the  security-bond  before  the  District  Court  of 
Kandy,  and  a  Bond  entered  into  by  Messrs. 
Hillehrand  and  Morgan  (proctors  for  the  appel- 
lant) for  £300,  conditioned  for  the  prosecution  of 
the  appeal  and  for  the  paj'ment  of  costs  in  pursu- 
ance of  the  sixth  rule  and  limitation  of  cl.  52  of 
the  Charter ;  and  the  bond  was  received  and  the 
case  proceeded  with  in  review. — No.  6047,  D.  C, 
Kaiidy,  (M.) 

Jv,ne  19. 

213. — A  Foreigner,  having  no  property  within 
the  jurisdiction,  may  be  called  upon  to  give  secu- 
rity for  costs  ;  but  if  unable  to  furnish  such  secu- 
rity, he  is  to  be  admitted  to  swear  that  he  will 
satisfy  the  same. 

In  such  a  case  the  Supreme  Court  directed 
that  the  security  to  be  required  from  a  foreigner 
for  coats,- should  be  a  bond  by  himself  alone  in 
the  penal  sum  of  £30  if  he  should  not  pay  such 


Edictal 

Citation — 

Amendment  of 

Application. 


Appeal  to  tli« 

Privy  Council — 

Secuiity. 


Foreigner- 
Security  for 
Costs. 


188§. 


50  1 


AppeaT  to  tlie 
Privy  Oouncil — 

Review — 
fresh  Evidence. 


Collective 

Deu'ion — • 

Seview. 


Evidence — 
Notice  to  pro- 
duce. 


Arbitration — 

Reference 

b;  par:iea  to  a 

suit. 


«50St8  ag  miglit  be  awarded  against  him,  oi*  should 
leave  the  Island  or  attempt  to  do  bo  without  first 
paying  all  such  costs  ;  andjper  Marshall,  C.  J. — 
"  Under  the  present  system  parties  are  not  al- 
lowed to  swear  in  civil  matters  in  their  own  be- 
half ;  and  a  Bond  as  above  directed  seems  much 
more  Kkely  to  prove  effective  in  answering  the 
end  proposed,  than  an  oath  would  be."-^No.  7086, 
D.  0.  Colombo,  N.  (M.) 

June  20,  (M.  R.  N.) 
214. — Where  a  judgment  of  the  Supreme  Court 
has  been  brousrht  by  way  of  review  before  the 
three  judges  collectively,  previous  to  its  going  ia 
appeal  to  the  King  in  Privy  Council,  the  appel- 
lant cann(jt  be  allowed  to  adduce  fresh  evidence  iu 
support  of  his  case. — No.  6047,  D.  C.  Kandi/, 
(,UoU.) 

215. — It  may  be  doubted  whether  the  first  ru]» 
or  limitation  in  cl.  62  of  the  Charter,  was  intended 
to  apply  to  a  case  already  heard  before  the  thre» 
judges  collectively  at  Colombo ;  for  in  such  a  case, 
the  review  in  truth  amounts  to  no  more  than  a 
reconsideration  by  the  same  judges  of  the  judg- 
ment already  pronounced  by  them.  But  th* 
Supreme  Court  held  it  to  be  the  safer  and  mora 
satisfactory  course  that  the  case  should  be  agaia 
heard  in  review. — Ibid. 

216. — Where  the  defendant  had,  by  hia  Answer, 
virtually  denied  the  existence  of  a  deed  insisted 
upon  by  the  plaintiff,  the  Supreme  Court  allowed 
parole  evidence  thereof,  and  held  that  the  defend- 
ant had  no  right  to  object  that  he  had  not  had 
notice  to  produce  an  instrument,  which,  if  his  owu 
answer  be  true,  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  pro* 
duce.— No.  5276,  D.  C.  Kandy,  (M.) 

217. — Where  it  was  recorded  in  the  proceed* 
ings  that  the  parties  had  expressed  themselves 
willing  to  abide  by  the  decision  of  Arbitrators, 
the  Supreme  Court  held  that  the  losing  party  could 
not  be  allowed  to  object  to  their  award  ;  but  re» 
commended  that  in  future  wherever  parties  should 
agree  to  submit  a  matter  for  arbitration,  their  sig* 
natures  to  such  consent  should  appear  on"  the 
proceeding*.— No.  1139,  D,  0.  W^ligmtt,  (M.) 


151] 


ma. 


218. — The  plaintiffs,  as  priests  of  a  Mosque  at 
Marendahn,  in  Barberyn,  sought  to  recover  from 
the  defendants  who  were  priests  of  another  Mosqua 
in  the  same  village,  damages  in  consequence  of 
the  defendants  having  celebrated  at  the  latter 
Idosque  certain  religious  festivals,  the  right  of 
celebrating  which  the  plaintiff's  claimed  as  exclu* 
sively  appertainisg  from  time  immemorial  to  their 
own  mosqae. 

Held  1,  That  had  the  question  related  to  the 
plaintiffs'  right  to  celebrate  these  festivals  «t  their 
own  Mosque,  there  was  sufficient  evidence  to  shew 
the  right  ftrom  time  immemorial;  and  the  Supreme 
Court  was  bound  to  :protect  all  classes  of  people  in 
the  free  .and  undisturbed  exercise  of  their  religi- 
ous rites  and  cerenjonies. — 2,  Had  the  enquiry 
been  of  a  purely  ecclesiastical  nature,  ex.  gr,, 
whether  these  festivals  could,  consistently  with 
the  Mahomedan  religion,  be  celebrated  in  more 
than  one  Mosque,  and  whether  the  plaintifla' 
Mosque  was  the  favored  one,— these  would  ba 
questions  which  the  Supreme  Court  was  neithep 
called  upon,  nor  would  consent,  to  decide ;  for, 
granting  that  the  Mahomedan  worship  may  have 
been  scandalized,  and  the  veneration  due  to  th§ 
plaintiffs'  Mosque  abated  by  the  practices  and  as- 
-sumptions  of  the  defendants,  the  Law  did  not 
a-ecognize  thefse  as  civil  injuries  for  which  compen- 
sation could  he  claimed  in  a  Court  of  Justice ;  but 
they  were  matters  purely  ecclesiastical  and  the 
lemedy,  if  attainable  at  all,  was  to  be  sought  for  in 
ecclesiastical  censure  or  penance. — S,  That  the 
plaintiffs  had  no  right  to  the  voluntary  offeriags 
of  the  devotees.  The  assumed  right  adipitting  of 
no  legal  remedy  in  case  of  the  offerings  being 
refused  or  withheld,  was  in  truth  no  right  at  all ; 
And  if  it  were  ,no  right,  the  present  action  seeiiing 
compensation  for  the  disturbance  or  obstruction  of 
it,  fell  to  the  ground. — 4-,  That  the  case  of  tithes 
in  England  bore  no  analogy  to  the  present  case, 
tithes  being  not  voluntary  offerings,  but  a  legal 
provision  for  the  clergy  which  could  not  be  legally 
withheld  and  was  recoverable  by  the  aid  of  the  ci^ii 
power.— No.  12348,  D.  C  Caltura,  (M.) 


Moorish 
Mosque— 


Eselisive  rig!it 

of  celebratinE 

festivals. 


Voluntary 
offerings. 


1S8». 


[52-J 


Breach 

of  Promise  of 

Marriage — 

Evidence. 


Pefendant  in 

default. 

Evidence. 

Seller  and 
Purchaser — 
Completion  of 
Transfer, — 
Payment  of 
money. 


Scrvioe-Parreny. 
Alienation. 


Second 

Marria.i^e — 

Administration 

of  deceased 

■wife'3  estate. 


June  24,  (M.  R.) 
219. — In  an  action  for  damages,  on  breach  of 
promise  of  Marriage,  the  plaintiil  had  failed  to 
prove  any  positive  or  direct  promise,  but  it  ap- 
peared that  the  banns  of  marriage  had  been  duly 
pubhshed,  and  that  both  parties  were  present  at 
the  publication  ;  and  the  Supreme  Court  lield  that 
this  circumstance  alone  would  entitle  the  plaintiff 
to  judgment. — No.  1134,  D.  0.  Valtura,  (M.)      - 

220. — A  defendant  who  is  in  default  is  not  en- 
titled to  go  into  evidence,  except  ts  disprove  the 
evidence  adduced  by  the  plaintiff. — Ibid. 

221. — An  Auctioneer  is  entitled  to  detain  the 
purchase -money  till  the  transfer  is  completed-; 
and  the  seller  ought  to  be  equally  entitled  to  re- 
fuse that  completion  till  the  payment  of  the  money. 
And  where  a  dispute  arose  as  to  which  act  should 
take  place  first,  the  Supreme  Court  recommended 
that  the  signature  to  the  deed  and  the  pajrment 
of  the  money  should  take  place  simultaneously, 
and  that  the  Auctioneer  and  the  Seller  should 
agree  to  meet  at  the  house  of  the  Notary  at  an 
appointed  time  for  the  performance  of  these  mu- 
tual acts.— No.  4599,  D.  C.  Colombo,  (M.) 

July  1,  (M.  R.> 

222.— The  Reg.  No.  8  of  1809^  is  merely  de- 
clatory  of  what  the  Law  was  at  the  time  it  wag 
passed,  and  makes  no  alteration  or  new  laws ;  but 
some  allowance  should  be  made  for  persons 
alienating  before  the  passing  of  that  Regulation, 
since  the  very  necessity  which  existed  for  such  a 
declaration,  shews  that  the  law  as  it  stood  was 
imperfectly  known.— No.  714,  D.  0.  Matura,  (JM.) 

223. — The  plaintiff  sued  his  son,  a  minor,  for 
opposing  his  second  marriage,  and  without  wait-- 
ing  for  Answer,  moved  that  the  son  might  be 
ordered  to  withdraw  his  opposition,  and  on  refusal 
of  that  motion  appealed  to  the  Supreme  Court. 
The  Supreme  Court  however  held  that,  if  the 
defendant  was  a  minor,  it  became  the  duty  of  the . 
District  Court  to  protect  his  interests,  and  there- 
fore ordered  that  it  should  forthwith  call  upon,  the 


[53] 


1835. 


plaintiff  to  talie  out  Letters  of  Administration  to 
the  estate  of  his  deceased  wife,  or  in  default 
thereof,  should  grant  administration  to  the  Secre- 
tary or  other  fit  person  ;  and  that  until  such 
estate  has  been  duly  administered,  the  plaintiff 
should  be  restrained  from  entering  into  a  second 
marriage.  The  action  was  dismissed  on  the 
plaintiff's  own  statement  that  the  defendant  was  a 
minor.— No.  15u2,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

224 — A  District  Court  may  award  double 
costs  against  a  party  in  the  nature  of  a  punish- 
ment for  endeavouring  to  mislead  the  Court  by 
his  answers,  under  rule  29,  sec.  i.  Rules  and 
Orders.  But  it  was  doubted  whether  a  District 
Court  would  he  justified  in  imposing  double  costs 
merely  because  the  action  had  been  brought  on 
insufficient  grounds  or  even  on  no  real  grounds 
at  all,  unless  such  action  were  attempted  to  be 
supported  by  false  statements  made  by  the  plain- 
tiff in  open  Court. — No.  823,  D.  0.  Walligame, 
(M.) 

225. — Where  it  appeared  that  a  plaintiff  not 
having  taken  out  adiiiiiiistration  was  not  entitled 
to  sue,  the  Supreme  Court  referred  bacli  the 
case  to  the  District  Court,  and  ordered  the  plain- 
tiff to  take  out  Letters  of  Administration  ;  and 
jjer  Marshall,  C.  J. — "  His  doing  so  may  pro- 
bably prevent  whatever  decree  may  be  passed  in 
this  case  from  being  hereafter  called  in  question 
by  parties  who  might  otherwise  contend  that 
they  had  not  been  duly  repreaonted." — No.  C583, 
I).  C.  Colombo,  A'.  (M.) 

July  8. 
226. — Where  the  plaintiff  sued  for  damages  on 
{he  ground  that  the  defendant  had  asked  him 
to  a  feast  and  had  afterwards  refused  to  associate 
or  sit  with  him,  and  the  defendant  in  his  Answer 
tendered  an  assurance  that  he  did  not  intend 
to  insult  or  cast  any  reflection  on  the  plaintiff. 
The  Supreme  Court  (the  Assessors  dissenting) 
held  that  the  defendant's  answer  constituted  in 
itt-.  If  such  "  honorable  amends"  as  ought  to  have 
satisfied  the  plaintiff;  and  refused  to  give  dama'^^es; 
and  as  to  costs,  condemned^the  defendant  in  aE- 


Minor 
Cliiidren. 


Punishment  for 
false  statements. 


Unfounded 
action. 


Administration. 

pending  the 

suit. 


Honorable 

Amends — 

Costs. 


X»»B. 


yostponement — 

Absence  of 

Proctor. 


Law— 
"District  Orcler.' 
Cattle-trespass. 


Assent  to  a 
Sale  of  Lauds, 


Presence  at  the 
Sale. 


Eeg.  of  Frauds 
»nd  Perjuries. 


[54] 

tlie  e«sts  up  te  Answer,  and  the  plaintiff  in  all  the 
subsequent  costs.— No.  1126,  D.  C.  Caliura,  (M.) 
227. — The  absence  of  the  Proctor  is  not  a  suf- 
ficient reason  for  a  postponement,  unless  he  be 
unavoidably  absent,  as  from  illness  or  other  un- 
controlable  cause.  And  when  a  trial  is  post- 
poned on  such  ground,  it  should  be  on  payment 
of  the  costs  incurred  by  the  postponement. — No. 
6105,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (M.) 

Jidi/,  15,  (M.  R.) 

228. — Where  the  District  Court  of  RuanweUs 
had  awarded  a  fine  on  the  owner  of  Cattle  found 
trespassing  on  "  Government  works  and  espla» 
nade,"  (though  no  damage  was  proved  to  hav? 
been  sustained  by  the  prosecutor ;)  and  the  Dig. 
trict  Judge,  on  reference,  stated  that  the  fine  had 
been  awarded  according  to  a  "  District  order, 
which  had  been  in  existence  ever  since  Ruan- 
welle  had  been  a  military  post  ;"  the  Supreme 
Court  set  aside  the  decree  with  costs,  and  Held 
that  it  could  not  recognize  any  authority  except 
that  of  the  Legislature ;  and  that  where  there  was  no 
law  on  the  subject  in  force  in  the  place,  the  own- 
ers of  cattle  found  trespassing  could  only  be  sued 
civilly  for  the  damage  which  might  be  done,  in- 
eluding  any  expense  or  reasonable  charge  for 
securing  the  animals  ; — Held  also  that  the  Reg. 
No.  9  of  1883  relates  only  to  offences  committed 
within  the  gravets  of  the  towns  therein  enume- 
rated.—No.  2578,  D.  C.  Ruamcelle,  (M.) 

Jidi/  22,  (M.  R.  N.) 

229. — Where  it  was  contended  that  the  plain- 
tiffs had  given  their  assent  to  a  sale  of  their  pro- 
perty for  the  benefit  of  otliiers,  the  Supreme 
Court  held  that  the  mere  presence  of  the  plain.- 
tiffs  at  the  sale  could  not  be  considered  a  suffi* 
cient  assent ;  and  as  to  a  verbal  assent  (which  had 
been  attempted  to  be  established,)  it  was  Iield  in- 
sufficient, 1,  because  no  consideration  or  motive 
had  been  proved  for  such  assent ;  and  2,  because 
by  the  Regulation  No.  4  of  1817,  such  con.sent  or 
promise  should  have  Leen  in  writing  and  duly 
signed. — No.  1261,  D.  C.  Nsgomho,  (N.) 


[55] 


1P35. 


230. — MTiere  the  defendant  had  cngasfed  hy 
bond  to  pay  a  certain  sum  of  money  on  the  ^?l^t 
Au.4Tist  1820,  and  without  any  stipulation  as  to 
interest ;  Eeld  that  though  the  bond  authorized 
the  creditor,  in  default  of  payment,  to  recover  thi? 
amount  by  sale  of  certain  property,  it  mii'ht  still 
be  a  question  whether  the  plaintiff,  not  having 
availed  himself  of  that  pov^er,  had  not  a  ri  -;ht  to 
claim  interest.  [The  question  vsras  not  however 
decided,  but  the  case  was  referred  ba«k  to  the 
District  Court  to  take  evidence  of  certain  pay- 
ments of  interest  alleged  to  have  been  madej. — • 
is'o.  lOiS,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

July,  25,  (M.  R.  N.) 

231. — A  construction  in  the  shape  of  a  Bou- 
tique is  not  land  v?ithin  the  meaning  of  cl.  5 
of  the  Reg.  No.  4  of  1827,  or  of  the  Reg.  of 
Frauds  and  Perjuries  (No.  7  of  1834,)  and  a  trans- 
fer of  such  a  construction  erected  on  the  land 
by  the  permission  of  Government,  to  whom  the 
soil  still  belongs,  and  given  up  to  the  plaintiff  by 
the  defendant  on  receiving  the  expenses  which 
he  had  incurred  in  erecting  it,  need  not  be  on 
stamp  or  reduced  to  writing. — No.  964,  D.  C. 
Ja^na,  (M.) 

232. — Where  the  appellant  contended  that  as 
no  damages  had  been  awarded  against  him  in  a 
case  for  libel,  he  was  not  liable  to  pay  costs;  Eeld 
that  this  was  by  no  means  a  necessary  consequence. 
The  defendant  had  called  the  plaintiff  his  «?ace, 
and  if  he  could  not  prove  his  legal  claim  to  the 
person  so  designated,  the  plaintiff  ought  to  be 
indemnified  the  expenses  to  which  he  had  been 
put  in  contradicting  the  assertion. — No.  788,  D. 
C.  Matelle,  (M.) 

Jvly  29,  (M.  R.  N,) 

233. — Where  a  plaintiff  had  established  the 
greater  part  of  his  claim  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
District  Court,  the  Supreme  Court  held  that  there 
seemed  to  be  no  reason  why  he  should  be  con- 
deuwed  to  bear  iua  own  costs. — No.  333,  D.  0. 


not  cupiUateil 


Transfer  of  a 
mere  building. 

Stamp. 

Frauds  and 

Perjuries—' 

"  Land." 


Damages- 
Costa. 
Action  for  Libel 


Gostc. 


1S35. 


[56] 


General  Hypo- 

jwthec  of  Go- 

Temment. 


'Witnesses — 

-Court  bound  to 

htar,  when. 


Magger,  Kay- 

■cooly,  &c.,  when 

recoverable. 


Stamp. 


Trespass — 
Title  of 
Plaintiff. 


234. — Tke  Government  possesses  a  general  hy- 
pothec over  the  property  of  its  debtors,  and  has 
a  right  to  prevent  all  alienations  of  such  proper- 
ty ;  but  this  right  does  not  commence  till  the 
deb*  has  actually  accrued  due  ;  except  in  an  ex- 
treme case,  as  where  a  party  is  endeavouring  to 
alienate  his  property  obviously  with  the  fraudu- 
lent intention  of  defeating  a  debt  about  to  become 
due.— No.  6975,  D.  C.  Kandj/,  (M.) 

235. — Where  the  plaintiff  has  failed  in  estab- 
lishing his  case,  it  is  unnecessary  to  hear  the  de- 
fendant's -witnesses,  unless  sometimes  for  the  great- 
er satisfaction  of  the  Court ;  but  where  the  plain- 
tiff's case  is  proved  on  his  part,  however  clearly 
and  even  unanswerably,  the  defendant  is  never- 
theless entitled  in  his  turn  to  have  his  witnesses 
examined,  except  where  his  answer  is  such  as, 
if  proved,  would  afford  no  defence  to  the  action. — 
No.  1160,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

Attgust  12,  (M.  N.) 

236.— Among  Mahomedans,  on  the  death  of 
the  husband  or  upon  a  separation,  the  wife  and, 
after  her  death,  her  children,  are  entitled  to  re- 
cover from  the  husband,  or  his  representatives, 
her  Magger,  Kaycooly,  &c.— No.  7487,  D.  Q.Jaff- 
na, (N.) 

237. — Where  the  defendant  claimed  the  vihdle 
amount  of  several  items  specified  in  a  Gartom, 
but  her  claim  for  Magger,  the  principal  item, 
rested  on  other  and  sufficient  evidence,  independ- 
ant  of  the  Cartom  (viz.  the  admission  of  the  plain- 
tiff in  his  libel  and  the  testimony  of  one  of  her 
witnesses,)  and  the  stamp  on  the  Cartom  was  suf- 
ficient to  cover  the  residue  of  her  claim,  Held 
that  the  Cartom,  was  admissible  in  respect  of  such 
residue,  though  insufficiently  stamped  as  regards 
the  whole  of  the  claim. — Ibid. 

August  26,  (M.  R.  N.) 

238. — Where  the  plaintiff  sued  for  a  trespass' 
or  encroachment  on  land ;  and  it  appeared  that 
the  land  belonged  to  Government ;  but  the  plain- 
tiff offered  to  prove  that  he  had  a  right  to  apply 
to  Government  for  the  land ;  Held  that  his  action 


[57  J 


1385. 


Bad  Tbeen  properly  dismissed,  as  the  trespass  or 
encroachment,  if  any  had  been  committed,  was  an 
injiiry  done  not  to  him,  but  to  Government,  and 
any  claim  the  plaintiff  might  have  on  the  bounty 
of  Government  would  be  in  no  way  affected  by 
a  decree  passed  in  the  District  Court  on  the  sub- 
ject of  a  trespass  cotamitted  on  land  which  did 
not  belong  to  him. — No.  400,  D.  C.  Caltwra,  (M.) 

239.— 'W'nere  the  plaintiff  succeeds  in  an  action 
for  breach  of  Promise  of  Marriage,  she  should  be 
allowed  her  costs.  The  defendant  might  have 
prevented  any  costs  being  incurred  beyond  those 
«f  the  libel  and  summons,  by  admitting  his  engage- 
ment and  offering  to  pay  such  moderate  damages 
as  the  Court  i&ight  award. — No.  1134,  D.  C.  CaW 
tura,  (M.) 

240. — 'VSTiere  the  value  of  the  property  in  dispute 
in  a  case  did  not  appear  in  the  proceedings  had 
therein,  but  the  appellant  alleged  that  it  exceeded 
£500,  the  Supreme  Court,  previous  to  sitting  in 
review  cm  aj^^eal  to  the  King  in  Privy  Council, 
ordered  that  th«  District  Court  of  Kandy  should 
ascertain  by  Commissioners  or  by  other  satisfac- 
tory means,  the  valu«  of  such  property,  and  report 
to  the  Supreme  Court  thereoa. — -No.  646,  D.  0. 
Kandy,  (B..\ 

September  2,  <M.  R  N.) 

241. — Where  one  daughter  had  received  ia 
■dowry  a  half  of  all  the  disposable  estate  of  the 
parents,  th«  Supreme  Court,  after  consulting  the 
Assessors,  (who  stated  that  by  the  customary  law 
of  inheritance  among  the  Cinghalese,  having  re- 
ceived such  a  large  portion  as  dowry,  she  could 
not  claim  another  share  at  her  mother's  d«ath,  and 
that  the  remaining  half  ought  to  devolve  on  the 
other  child,)  referred  the  case  back  for  the  opini- 
on of  the  District  Court  on  this  point  on  more 
mature  consideration,  and  after  consultation  with 
those  best  acquainted  with  the  Cinghalese  Law  of 
Inheritance.— No.  603,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

Sept.  23,  (M.  R.  N.) 

242. — Under  the  ^tamp  Regulation,  it  is  not 
necessary  to  the  legal  validity  of  any  contract,  <fcc., 


Breach 

of  Promise  oi 

Marriage— 

Costs. 


Appeal  to  Privy 

Council  — 

Value  of  the 

property. 


Dowry— 

Collatiaa. 


When 
necessaiy. 


.1«S6. 


Costa — 

Interlocutory 

Appeal. 


Injury  to 
Chiuracter. 


JIarriage-Con- 

tract — 

Damages. 


Claim  for 

Penalty  and 

Expenses. 


Assent  to  Mar- 
riage Contract- 
implied. 


[68  J 

that  it  should  be  reduced  to  writing,  farther  than 
is  made  necessary  by  other  laws  and  regulations ; 
but  only  .that  if  reduced  into  writing,  such  writ- 
ten contracts,  &o.  should  be  stamped. — No.  489, 
I).  C.  Tenmoratchy,  (M.) 

Sept.  28. 
243..— Where  the  Sujaeme  Court,  on  an  ap- 
peal by  the  defendant,  had  set  aside  the  interlocu- 
tory order  appealed  against,  and  referred  the 
case  back  for  re-hearing,  but  made  no  direction  as 
to  costs  ;  and  the  District  Court,  after  re-hearingj 
had  given  final  judgment  against  the  defendant 
with  costs;  Held  that  the  costs  of  the  appeal 
against  the  interlocutory  order  followed  the  gene- 
ral decree  of  costs  awarded  against  the  defendant 
by  the  final  judgment. — No.  955,  D.  C.  Caltura, 
(M.> 

Sept.  30,  (M.  K.  N.) 

244. — A  plaintiff  who  complains  of  an  injury 
done  to  his  character,  has  as  much  right  to  the 
time  of  the  Court,  as  one  who  seeks  to  recover 
property  os  redress  from  any  other  species  of  in- 
jury.—No.  7403,  D.  C.  Kandy,  (M.) 

245. — The  plaintiff  having  failed  to  shew  any 
damage  sustained  in  consequence  of  a  breach  of  a 
Marriage-contract,  beyond  tiie-  cost  of  the  stamp 
on  whieh  the  contract  had  been  drawnj.  for  which 
however  he  had  brought  a  separate  action ;  Seli 
that  his  suit  had  been  properly  dismissed. — No, 
604,  D.  C.  Trincomalie,  (M.) 

246  — A  claim  for  the  specific  penalty  imposed 
by  a  Marriage-contract  aiid  any  further  claim  for 
the  expenses  to  which,  the  party  may  have  been 
put  in  consequence  of  the  non-fulfilment  of  it, 
may  be  joined  in  the  same  action. — 'Ibid. 

247. — ^Among  Mahomedans,  even  supposing  the 
assent  of  the  Bride's  brother  to  be  necessary  for 
the  validity  of  the  Marriage-contract,  such  as« 
sent  may  be  implied  from  his  having  been  pre- 
sent at  the  execution  of  it,  his  making  no  objec- 
tion to  it,  and  his  serving  out  cakes  to  the  people 
after  its  exscution.— iiiS. 


C59] 


249. — The  non-payment  of  the  pwrcbaso^mo- 
ney  to  the  Fiscal  within  the  stipulated  time,  does 
not  entail  an  absolute  forfeiture,  but  merely  sah- 
jects  the  purehaser  to  the  risk  of  a  re-sale  at  the 
option  of  the  Fiscal. — No.  256  S,  D.  C.  RiMmwelU, 
(N.) 

October  7,  (M.  R.  N.) 

2i9. — The  possession  required  by  the  Reg. 
No.  5  of  1819  should  be  established  to  the  satis- 
faction of  the  Court,  not  by  the  naked  affidavit  of 
the  party,  but  by  that  sort  of  proof  which  would 
satisfy  the  Court  that  he  really  did  possess  the 
land  at  the  time,  either  by  actual  occupation'  or 
cultivation,  flr  by  the  exercise  of  those  acts  of 
ownership  which,  according  to  the  nature  of  the 
property,  denote  possession.  And  as  tO'  the  Ci- 
tation, it  should  be  shewn  to  huve  been  published 
with  a  degree  of  notoriety — of  actual  obtrusion 
on  the  notice  of  the  neighbourhood^ — that  should 
make  it  almost  impossible  to  plead  ignorance  of 
it.— No.  2354,  D.  C.  CkQaw,  (M.) 

250. — The  certifleate  of  a  Ptoctor  that  the  al- 
leged pauper  ha&  a  good  ground  of  actioH  is 
Bolutely   necessary. — M.  Cadergcemm'  v. 
D.  C,  Wadimoratehiiy  (M.> 

Oet.  10. 

251.--— The  sums  actually  paid  by  a  party  for 
getting  his  pleadings  drawn  by  private  persons, 
were  directed  to  be  allowed  at  the  taxation  of  his 
bill,  provided  no  Proctor  had  been  employed,  and 
such  sums,  if  in  the  Ist  or  2nd  class,  did  not  on 
the .  whcJe  exceed  ten  per  cent,  on  the  sum^  de- 
creed.— No.  584,  (fee,  D.  C.  AmMcmg&d^,  (M.) 

0bt.  14,  (M.  N.) 

252. — It  is  a  sufficient  ground  for  dismissing 
the  claim  of  the  plaintifis,  that  they  admit  their 
inability  to  state  who  are  the  joint  heirs  with 
themselves  or  to  point  out  the  portions  to  which 
the  plaintiffs  are  respectively  entitled- — No.  124, 
D.  0.  Amhtaaigpdde,,  (M.) 

2ik3. — The  Civil;  Law,  in  order  to  prevent  un- 
necessary muitipiicity  ©f  suits;,  aUawa  any  peison 


Fiscal's  Sale— 
Defatilt  of 
Purchaser. 


Citation — 

Possession  how 

eatablisbed. 


Citation  Vow 
published. 


Pauper — 

Certificate  of 

Proctor. 


Pleadings 
drawn  by  pri- 
vate itactLes. 


BismisEol--- 
CriaoDds-of.. 


Intervention. 


J8SS. 


Defectivs 

Libel  — 

Examinndon  of 


Kanting-share. 
Joint  owner- 
ship. 
Eight  of 
S^«-em{itioa. 


Costs. 


D.  C cannot 

rescind  its  own 

order. 


}?amptis9e> 
neat- 


Merchant's 

I)ay-!)ook — 
J*i'o\  i-ional 
}ad)gautat. 


[60  1 

havinff  aH  interest  in  the  subject-matter  bettfeen 
Jitigants,  to  become  a  party  to  a  suit  already  iu- 
Btituted.  And  this  privilege  is  recorrnized  and 
declared  by  rule  32  of  sec.  i,  Rules  and  Orders.-^ 
No  1465,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

254. — Where  a  defendant  applied  that  tlie 
plaintiff  should  be  called  upon  to  state  what  inj  :ry 
had  been  committed  by  each  defendant  individu- 
ally, the  Supreme  Court  lidd  that  that  object  was 
equally  and  satisfactorily  attainable  by  the  exarvii» 
nation  of  the  plaintiff  in  Court. — No.  1784,  D.  0, 
Caltura,  (M.) 

255. — A  decree  reserving  a  planting-share  to 
the  defendant,  confers  to  a  certain  extent  a  joint 
right  of  ownership  upon  him  ;  nor  has  the  plaintiff 
any  right  to  insist  on  buying  out  the  defendant's 
Bhare,  unless  by  way  of  pre-emption,  provided 
the  defendant  is  willing  to  part  with'  it. — No. 
2693,  D,  C.  Galh,  (M.) 

Oct.  28,  (M.  E.  N.) 
2S6. — A  plaintiff  who  succeeds  in  the  main 
object  of  his  suit  is  entitled  to  his  costs,  unless  it 
be  shewn  that  the  action  was  frivolous  or  need* 
Jess.— No.  2226,  D.  C.  Chilaw,  (N.) 

257. — A  District  Court  cannot  rescind  an  order 
once  made,  but  may  refer  the  matter  to  the  Su- 
preme Court.— No.  1859,  D.  0.  CaHura,  (M.) 

November  11,  (M.  R.  N.) 
258. — The  right  to  Namptissement  forms  part  (rf 
the  Roman-Dutch  Law  and  should  obtain  where^ 
ever  that  Law  is  administered,  though  not  noticed 
in  the  Rules, of  Practice  of  183S.— No.  8423,  D. 
0.  Colombo,  N,  (Coll.) 

259. — A  Merchant's  day-book,  containing  an 
account  of  the  goods  sold  and  delivered,  is  a 
document  on  which  provisional  judgment  may  be 
demanded  ;  and  though  the  Roman- Dutch  La\« 
requires  that  it  should  be  supported  by  the  oath 
or  strengthened  by  the  death  of  the  merchant,  yet» 
if  the  merchant  be  living  but  cannot  under  th« 
Bales  take  an  oath  in  his  own  suit,  his  examina- 
tion under  penalty,  as  dire.-ted  by  rale  2j  see,  i. 
is  ioLy  eijiuivakat  to  th«  Mta.— i^id. 


161] 


lass. 


260.— A  Merchant's  account  of  goods  sold  afid 
delivered,  though  containing  "  mention  concern- 
ing the  time  of  payment,"  viz.,  "  at  two  equal 
monthly  instalments,"  was  held  admissible  in  evi- 
dence under  cl.  9  of  the  Reg.  No.  4r  of  1827, 
there  being  nothing  to  shew  that  the  mention  of 
the  time  was  intended  to  be  binding  on  the  de- 
fendant ;  and  the  account  not  having  been  pro* 
duced  with  any  such  view. — Ihid. 

261. — Where  a  defendant  contended  that  with 
one  exception,  there  was  not  a  single  instance  in 
which  a  particular  provision  allowed  by  the 
Dutch  Law  had  been  demanded  in  any  Court  of 
Ju.-itice,  since  the  cession  of  the  Island  ;  Held  that 
if  the  right  exists,  it  is  not  the  less  Law  because 
hitherto  suitors  may  not  have  known  of  its  exist- 
<>nce,  or  may  not  have  thought  it  expedient  to 
•exercise  it. — IMd. 

2'^-2.— Where  the  defendant  had  charged  the 
plaintiff  with  havinac  removed  a  quantity  of  Go- 
vernment salt  to  his  own  house,  and,  after  calUng 
evidence,  had  failed  to  substantiate  the  chai-ge, 
though  it  was  not  stated  whether  the  charge  im- 
plied a  mere  infraction  of  the  Reg.  No.  2  of  1S18, 
or  whether  theft  had  been  attributed  to  the  plain- 
tiff; Held  that  the  plaintiff  had  an  action  for 
damages. — Soetsz  v.  Morays,  D  0.  Chilaw,  (AI.) 

263. — The  requisites  of  an  action  for  a  Malici- 
ous Prosecution,  are  1,  that  the  charge  must  have 
been  false  ;  2,  there  must  have  been  a  want  of 
probable  cause  to  justify  the  accusation  ;  3,  there 
must  have  been  malice  on  the  part  of  the  inform- 
ant, (and  the  Law  implies  malice  where  no  pro^ 
bable  ground  is  shown ;)  and  4,  the  plaintiff  must 
have  sustained  damage,  either  in  his  person  or  re- 
putation, or  by  pecuniary  loss.  In  the  above  case 
(§  262)  it  was  held  that  it  was  for  th-e  defendant 
to  negative  the  first  three  requisites. — Ihid. 

-264. — Where  a  person  has  been  actually 
brought,  to  trial  for  any  offence,  the  conviction  of 
which  would  be  injurious  to  his  character,  whe- 
tljer  as  a  member  of  society,  or  with  reference  to 
bis  professien,  ocaupatioa  or  o£&ce»  it  is  not  suf&- 


Stamp — 
Account,  con- 
taining "  men- 
tiou  of  the  lime 
of  payment." 


Rights  uniler 

Roman  Dutch 

Law — 

Nou-exercise  of. 


Malicious 
Prosecution, 


Action  for 

Malicioua 

Prosecution — 

KejuiisiteB  of. 


Malicious 
Prosecution — • 
Eeparation. 


18SD. 


[62] 


Decree — 
Third  parties. 


Duty  of 
Purchaser. 


Ijialiility  of 
Wife— at 
Batticaloa, 


Coats— 
Several 
plaiatiifs. 


Answer — 
Creaeral  Cenia]. 


cient  reparation  for  that  attack  on  his  character 
that  the  want  of  evidence,  or  in  other  words,  the 
want  of  probable  cause,  has  rendered  it  unaucces- 
M.—Ibid. 

2fi5. — A  decree,  though  binding  on  the  plain- 
tiff and  defendant  in  a  suit,  does  not  affect  a  third 
party  ;  for  otherwise  no  man's  title  would  be  se- 
cure ;  since  it  would  be  an  easy  matter  for  knaves 
to  collude  together,  and  the  one  as  defendant  suf- 
fer judgment  to  go  by  admission  or  default  in 
favor  of  the  other  as  plaintiff,  neither  party  per- 
haps possessing  a  shadow  of  rights. — No.  1584, 
D.  C.  Seven  Carles,  (N  ) 

266. — A  purchaser  ought  to  enquire  into  the 
seUer'a  right  before  he  accepts  a  deed  of  sale ; 
and  he  would  then  either  discover  the  want  of  title 
in  the  seller,  or  be  prepared  to  maintain  it  when 
questioned.— No.  5486,  D.  0.  Colombo,  N.  (M.) 

267. — A  case  was  referred  back  to  the  Distiict 
Court  of  Batticaloa  for  information  whether,  by 
the  customary  law  of  that  place,  the  property  of  a 
wife  who  had  been  separated  from  her  husband 
and  was  actually  living  a  part  from  him  at  the 
time  when  judgment  was  recorded  against  him, 
would  be  liable  for  his  debts.— No.  2912,  D.  C. 
Batticaloa,  (M.) 

268. — Where  judgment  having  been  given  for 
the  defendant  with  costs,  it  appeared  that  the  first 
and  second  plaintiffs  in  the  suit  had  acted  without 
fraud,  and  had  purchased  the  property  in  ques- 
tion from  the  third  plaintiff  on  the  supposition  that 
the  latter  was  legally  entitled  to  dispose  of  it ;  the 
Supreme  Court  deceed  that  the  third  plaintiff 
alone  should  pay  the  costs,  unless  she  couM  shew 
good  and  sufficient  cause  to  the  District  Court 
why  the  first  and  second  plaintiffe  should  be  oh- 
Eged  to  pay  any  part  thereof. — No.  3200,  I>.  C. 
Matura,  (M.) 

JVow.  la,  (M.  R.  N.) 

26^.— The  facts  on  which  a  defendant  hjtendk 
to  rest  his  defence  ought  to  be  stated  in  his  An- 
swer. Where  on  an  action  for  a  share  of  the  pro- 
duce of  a  field  cultivated  by  the  defendatit,  the 


[63  J 


1835. 


defendant  put  in  a  general  denial  of  all  right  on 
the  part  of  the  plaintiff,  but  at  the  trial  went  into 
evidence  of  particular  facts,  which  if  true  might 
have  furnished  a  defence  to  the  claim,  though 
they  admitted  the  plaintiff's  title,  the  District 
Court  gave  judgment  for  the  plaintiff,  and  the 
judgment  was  affirmed  by  the  Supreme  Court. — 
No.  363,  D.  C.  Manar,  (M.) 

270. — Where  a  defendant,  instead  of  resting  on 
the  plea  of  prescription,  had  admitted  the  in-^tru- 
ment  and  pleaded  payment,  which  however  he 
failed  to  prove ;  Held  that  the  District  Court 
could  not  change  the  ground  of  defence  and  sub- 
stitute the  presumption  of  payment  raised  by  the 
Ordinance,  for  the  actual  liquidation  which  the 
defendant  had  undertaken  but  failed  to  prove. — 
No.  1117,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.)— See  also  Dec.  2, 
1835,  Civ.  Min.  p.  706. 

271. — Though  the  positive  law  of  Prescription, 
not  having  been  pleaded,  cannot  be  insisted  upon, 
it  is  still  a  question  for  the  District  Court  whe- 
ther, putting  that  law  aside,  the  Court  may  not 
feel  convinced,  from  the  lapse  of  time  which  had 
been  suffered  to  elapse,  that  the  instrument  has 
been  in  some  way  satisfied. — Ibid. 

iVbu.  25,  (M.R.N.) 
272. — The  defendant  as  Auctioneer  having 
sold  certain  lands  at  an  auction  to  the  plaintiff, 
had  recovered  from  the  plaintiff  the  amount  of 
stamps  and  other  expences  necessary  for  the  trans- 
fer.  and  afterwards  called  on  the  plaintiff  to  pay 
over  the  purchase-  money  to  the  vendor,  pro- 
mising to  get  the  title  for  the  plaintiff  in  a  month. 
The  purchase-money  was  accordingly  paid  to  the 
vendor  but  no  title  was  ever  made  out ;  and  it 
turned  out  that  the  vendor  had  really  no  title, 
and  the  piaintiff  was  ultimately  ejected  from  the 
land  hy  the  lawful  owner.  On  aa  action  by  the 
plaintiff  against  the  defendant,  the  auctioneer ; 
Held  that  the  latter  was  liable  to  refund  to  the 
plaintiff,  not  only  the  amount  paid  to  himself 
for  expenses  &c.,  but  also,  the  purchase-money 
paid  at  his  request  aad  by  his  direction  (and  per 
Ma&shall,  0.  J., — on  his  promise  of  procaring 


Evidence. 


Prescription- 
Pa\'ment. 


Fresumplion 

of  Payment 

from  lapse  of 

Time. 


Liability  of 
Auctioneer. 


1635. 


[R4  J 


Claim  under 
Edict.  Citatioir. 


Cevlificntfi  of 
Qniet 

Force  of. 


Pauper — 

Pi-onf  within 

reasonable  lime. 


Order  on  a 
Shroff— 

r^virleace  of 
payment. 


the  title")  to  the  vendor. — No.  4.-11,  T).  C.  Colom- 
lo,  A'.  (Coll.) 

273.— A  claim  tinder  Edictal  Citation  maybe 
made  at  any  time  before  the  Certificate  of  the 
District  Court  is  granted  ;  for  claims  ought  to  b» 
received  as  long  as  the  application  is  kept  open, 
whatever  may  be  the  day  mentioned  in  the  cita- 
tion and  although  the  application  is  suspended  in 
order  to  await  the  decision  upon  other  claims. — 
No.  976,  D.  C.  Amblangodde,  (M.) 

274. — The  only  force  which  ought  to  be  given 
to  Certificates  of  Quiet  Possession,  as  obtained 
under  the  Ileg.  No.  5  of  1819,  is  the  arriving  at 
the  fact  that  the  neighbourhood  has  been  cited  in 
a  certain  manner  to  come  forward  with  claims, 
and  that  for  a  certain  number  of  months  none  had 
been  made.  This  fact  would  no  doubt  assist  8" 
party  in  proving  title  by  prescription  or  in  any 
other  way  founded  on  possession ;  but  it  would 
not  and  ought  not  to  be  held  conclusive  against 
svibsequont  claimants,  if  they  can  account  satis- 
factorily for  their  silence  during  the  time  th& 
Citation  was  pending. — Ibid. 

275. — A  party  applying  for  permission  to  sue 
as  a  pauper  is  entitled  only  to  a  reasonable  oppor- 
tunity of  establishing  his  poverty ;  but  at  the 
same  time  there  ought  to  be  some  limit  to  thff 
length  of  investigation  into  the  value  of  his  pro- 
perty, and  the  District  cannot  be  required  in 
every  case  of  contested  pauperism  to  enter  into  a 
trial  of  title  to  land. — No.  1238,  D.  C.  Negombo^ 
(M.) 

December  2,  (M.  R.  N.) 

276. — In  an  action  by  the  plaintiff  (a  Govprn- 
ment  Servant)  against  a  Shroff  of  the  Cutcherry, 
the  defendant  produced  a  slip  of  paper  containing 
the  following  order  from  the  plaintiff:  —  "  Private 
Account. — Shroff,  I  want  £oO  in  JElO  notes. 
Kandy,  3rd  April,  1835.— G.  Turnour."  Held 
that  this  was  a  mere  requisition  which  might  or 
might  not  have  been  complied  with,  and  that  the 
bare  production  of  it.  though  furnishiii'jj  a  strou» 
presumption,   was   not  conclusive   proof  of  thJ 


[65] 


18SS. 


plaintiff  having  received  the  amount,  imless  en- 
dorsed by  him  as  having  been  received  ;  and  this, 
notwithstanding  the  course  of  dealing  between  the 
parties,  by  which  it  appeared  that  other  sums  of 
money  had  actually  been  received  by  the  plaintiff 
on  similar  documents. — No.  Tltji,  D.  C.  Kcmdy, 
(M.) 

277.— Where  the  defendant,  a  Shroff  of  the 
Cutcherry,  claimed  a  commission  of  one -half  per 
cent  on  sums  held  by  him  for  the  plaintiff,  a  Go- 
vernment servant ;  Held  that  in  the  absence  of 
any  express  agreement,  he  was  not  entitled  to 
8uch  commission  ;  because  the  chief  consideration 
on  which  the  right  of  a  Merchant  or  Banker  (to 
•whom  a  Shroff  was  contended  to  be  analogous)  to 
commission  is  founded,  was  wanting  in  the  case, 
viz.  the  expense  of  providing  a  place  of  safe  cus- 
tody and  other  incidental  expenses,  and  the  risk 
of  loss ;  the  expense  being  in  the  present  instance 
borne  by  Government,  and  the  risk  nothing,  the 
defendant  having  availed  himself  of  the  place  of 
security  which  his  office  left  at  his  disposal.  And 
although  the  Government  had  declared  that  it 
would  not  be  responsible  for  private  deposits,  it 
does  not  follow  that  the  defendant,  a  mere  depo- 
sitary, would  have  been  liable,  if  any  loss,  not 
arising  from  gross  negligence,  had  happened.— 
Ihid. 

278. — A  Judgment  pronounced  against  a  party 
is  binding  on  his  heirs.  Where  a  previous  decree 
had  been  given  against  a  father,  and  it  appeared 
that  the  subsequent  action  was,  to  all  practical  pur- 
poses, for  the  benefit  of  his  heirs,  it  was  held  to  be 
but  a  revival  of  the  former  suit,  and  therefore  not 
maintainable. — No.  349,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (N.) 

279. — A  Brother  has  at  least  as  good  a  claim 
to  Administration  as  a  Sister.  She  cannot  how- 
ever claim  sole  administration  to  the  exclusion  of 
her  Brother.— No.  42,  D.  C.  Galle,  (M.) 

280. — WTiere  the  defendant  had  committed  nu- 
merous defaults  after  issue  joined  ;  Held  that  the 
District  Court  would  be  perfectly  justified  in  pro- 
ceeding to  hear  the  case  with  the  least  possibles 
delay,  giving  notice  of  the  difi'ereat  steps  taken 


Commiesion  on 
a  deposit. 


liability  of 
Depositary 
for  Loss. 


Judgment 

tindiiig  on 

Heirs. 


Higbt  to 
Admiiiistratioa. 


Default,  after 
issue  joined. 


1*35. 


Eight  of 

Besnnjption  on 

noii-pa;\'iuent 

of  price- 


Waiver  of. 


Appeal  in 
forma  pauperis. 


Property  held 

»i  Trustee  for  a 

Temple. 


Administration 

refused  to  a 
Saddhiet  Priest. 


[66] 

fcy  personal  service  on  the  defendant,  if  he  couLl 
be  found,  or  else  by  leaving  the  notices  at  his  last 
place  of  abode.— No.  11969,  D.  C.  Buanwelle,  (M.) 

Dec.  9,  (M.  E.  N.) 

281. — Where  a  party  had  sold  certain  articles 
to  the  defendant,  subject  only  to  resumption  by 
the  seller  on  non-paynaent  of  the  balance  of  the 
purchase-money  within  a  certain  time  ;  and  it  ap- 
peared that  he  had  not  exercised  this  right,  but 
contented  himself  with  th*  verbal  undertaking  of 
a  third  party  to  pay  th«  amount  due,  (though 
upon  what  consideration  it  did  not  appear  ;)  Held 
that  this  agreement  was  a  waiver  of  the  ri;^ht  of 
resumption,  and  left  the  defendant  the  absolute 
proprietor  of  the  articles. — No.  1735,  D.  0.  Kandy, 
(M.) 

282. — Where  a  plaintiff,  a  Buddhist  Priest,  ap- 
plied to  be  admitted  to  appeal  in  forma  pauperis, 
and  it  appeared  that  he  held  certain  deeds  of  lands 
in  his  name,  which  lands  were  however  stated  to 
be  held  in  trust  for  a  Temple  ;  Held  that,  if  the 
purchases  had  been  in  trust  for  the  Temple,  that 
ought  to  have  been  inserted  in  the  deeds ;  and 
that  a.s  no  such  trust  did  appear,  the  applicant 
should  he  considared  as  the  proprietor  to  all  intents 
and  purposes ; — Heldalao  that  the  question  whether 
the  deeds  being  in  the  party's  name  were  a  con- 
travention of  the  rules  of  poverty  prescribed  by 
his  religion,  was  one  which  could  not  affect  the 
case.— No.  32,  D.  0.  Matura,  (M.) 

283. — Upon  application  for  Administration  by 
a  Buddhist  Priest,  it  was  held  that  the  District 
Courts  are  to  compel  all  administrators,  and  even 
executors,  according  to  the  Charter,  if  they  see 
reason  to  do  so,  to  find  security  for  the  due  exe- 
cution of  their  offices,  and  that  nothing  could  be 
more  at  variance  with  the  spirit  of  this  highly  sa- 
lutary provision,  than  to  allow  a  person  to  ad- 
minister, who  is  avowedly  a  pauper,  and  for 
whom  therefore,  especially  if  he  cannot  legally 
possess  property,  no  solvent  person  can  reason- 
ably be  expected  to  give  security. — Ibid. 


[67] 


t88S. 


Dec.  16,  (M.  N.) 

284. — It  is  the  duty  of  the  Supreme  Court  to 
correct  any  errors  in  the  judgments  ol'  I'istrict 
Courts ;  but  it  has  no  discretionary  authority  to 
alleviate  those  hardships  which  a  strict  enforce- 
ment of  the  Law  will  sometimes  produce,  further 
than  the  District  Courts  themselves  possess  that 
power. — No.  115,  D.  C.  Manar,  (M.) 

285. — The  fact  that  a  party  had  for  many 
years  taken  up  his  residence  with  his  grand- 
daughter, and  had  openly  declared  her  to  be  sole 
heiress  to  his  property,  and  had  even  executed 
an  instrument  to  that  effect  (which  however,  hav- 
ing been  informally  executed,  was  invalid  in  law,) 
is  not  sufficient  to  give  her  any  right  of  succes- 
sion to  the  whole  property  of  the  grand-father, 
to  the  exclusion  of  the  other  legitimate  heirs. — 
No.  972,  U.  C.  Trincomalie,  (N.) 

286. — The  following  forms  employed  by  the 
Supreme  Court  upon  a  reference  to  Arbitration 
made  by  the  parties  to  a  suit,  may  be  considered 
useful.  The  parties  having  subscribed  to  a  docu- 
ment in  the  following  form  : — 

"  We,  the  undersigned  A.  B.  (for  myself  and 
on  behalf  of  the  other  plaintiffs,)  and  i '-  D.  (for 
myself  and  on  behalf  of  the  other  defendants,)  do 
hereby  agree  and  consent  that  all  matters  in  dis- 
pute in  this  case,  (that  is,  whether  &c.)  be  refer- 
ed  to  the  award  and  final  determination  of  E.  F. 
and  G.  H.  And  w^e  do  bind  ourselves  to  abide 
by  the  award  and  decision  of  the  said  Arbitrators :" 

The  Supreme  Court  made  the  following  order 
thereon : — 

"  It  is  ordered,  by  and  with  the  consent  of  the 
plaintiffs  and  defendants  in  this  case,  that  all  mat- 
ters in  difference  between  the  said  parties  be  re- 
ferred to  the  award,  order,  arbitrament,  final  end 
and  determination  of  E.  F.  and  G.  H.,  Arbitra- 
tors nominated  by  the  said  plaintiffs  and  defend- 
ants, so  as  they  the  said  Arbitrators  shall  make 
and  publish  their  award  in  writing  of  and  con- 
cerning the  matters  in  question,  on   or  before  the 

day  of or  on  or  before  such  r'ur- 

ther  or  ulterior  day  as  the  said  Arbitrator*  diall 


S.  C.  how  far 

entitled  to 

interfere  with 

decrees. 


Ei^t  of 
Succession. 


Eefei'enee  to 
Ai'bitratioa. 


Form  of 

Agreement 
to  refer. 


Form  of 
Beferencc 


1835. 


L68  J 


Ketfiuneration 

for  Meilical 

Services. 


Contract, 


ultimately  appoint  and  signify  in  writing  under 
their  hands,  to  be  endorsed  on  these  presents. 

"  And  it  is  further  ordered,  by  and  with  such 
consent  as  aforesaid,  that  all  differences  which  may 
arise  between  the  said  Arbitrators  be  referred  to 
the  decision  and  umpirage  of  this  Court  upon  a 
statement  of  facts  made  by  the  said  Arbitrators. 

"  And  it  is  likewise  ordered,  by  and  with  such 
consent  as  aforesaid,  that  the  costs  of  this  cause 
and  of  the  said  reference  to  the  Court  or  in  any 
manner  relative  thereto  shall  abide  the  event  of 
the  said  award  and  decision  or  umpirage. 

"  And  that  the  Plaintiffs  and  Defendants  res- 
pectively may  be  examined,  if  thought  necessary 
by  the  said  Arbitrators,  and  shall  and  do  produce 
before  the  said  Arbitrators  all  papers  and  writings 
touching  and  relating  to  the  matter  in  difference 
between  the  said  parties,  as  the  said  Arbitrators 
shall  think  fit,  and  that  the  Witnesses  of  the 
Plaintiffs  and  Defendants  respectively  shall  be  ex- 
amined upon  oath  also,  to  be  sworn  before  the  said 
District  Court. 

"  And  it  is  lastly  ordered  by  and  with  sucL 
consent  as  aforesaid,  if  either  party  shall  by 
effected  delay  or  otherwise  wilfully  prevent  the 
said  Arbitrators  or  either  of  them  from  making  an 
award,  he  or  they  shall  pay  such  costs  to  the 
other  as  this  Court  shall  think  reasonable  and 
just.— No.  2939,  D.  0.  Amblcmgodde,  (M.) 

287. — In  an  action  for  Medical  Services  ren- 
dered by  the  plaintiff,  it  was  contended  by  the 
defendant  that  the  plaintiff  should  be  satisfied 
with  the  same  sum  which  it  appeared  the  defend- 
ant had  been  in  tne  habit  of  paying  the  plaintiff's 
father  yearly.  But  the  Supreme  Court  held  that 
although  this  mode  of  remunerating  medical  at- 
tendance by  a  stipulated  amount  was  very  com- 
mon, yet  a  contract  to  that  effect  must  be  shewn 
to  have  been  expressly  entered  into  and  to  be 
reciprocally^  binding  upon  both  parties,  before  it 
could  be  insisted  upon ;  nor,  if  entered  into  by  the- 
Father,  would  it  necessarily  follow   that  the  Son 

would  agree  to  the  same  terms  as  the  father t 

No.  6876,  D.  0.  (Jolonibo,  S.  (M.) 


[69] 


1835. 


288. — A  plaintiff,  though  only  acting  in  truBt 
for  others  (executors  of  an  estate,)  was  held  en- 
titled to  sue  in  his  own  name  for  monies  which 
he  had  paid  over  to  the  defendant  for  greater  se. 
curity.  The  defendant  had  in  his  answer  denied 
the  plaintiffs  right  to  sue  for  money  belonging  to 
other  parties,  and  averred  that  he  should  have 
had  a  good  ground  of  defence  to  an  action  by  the 
executors ;  Held  however,  that  there  was  no  rea- 
son why  the  defendant  should  not  have  made  any 
defence  to  this  action  which  he  might  have  against 
the  executors'  right  to  recover ;  and  judgment 
was  allowed  for  the  plaintiff.  But  the  only  evi- 
dence of  the  payment  of  the  money  to  the  de- 
fendant being  his  own  admission,  the  Supreme 
Court  allowed  him  an  opportunity  of  establishing 
his  defence  by  ordering  that  the  money  to  be  re- 
covered from  him  should  lie  in  deposit  in  the  Dis- 
trict Court  for  14  days,  and  that  if  no  proceed- 
ings be  instituted  by  him  against  the  executors 
within  that  time,  it  should  be  paid  over  to  the 
plaintiff.— No.  6863,  D.  0.  Colombo,  N.  (M.) 

289. — All  infraction  of  the  Revenue  Laws,  on 
■which  penalty,  fine,  or  other  description  of  pun- 
ishment whatever  is  imposed,  should  be  proceed- 
ed against  criminally.  See  Charter,  cl.  28. — No. 
98,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (M.)  And  see  Dec.  23, 
1835,  Civ.  Min.  p.  761. 

230. — Confiscation  is  rather  in  the  nature  of  a 
civil  action  than  of  a  criminal  prosecution. — Ibid. 

291. — It  would  be  impossible  to  lay  down  any 
general  rule  as  to  how  often  a  case  may  be 
postponed  on  account  of  the  absence  of  a  material 
witness.  This  is  a  matter  which  must  be  left  to 
the  discretion  of  the  District  Court  nnder  the 
conditions  imposed  by  the  Bules  and  Orders,  and 
subject  to  appeal  in  any  case  in  which  a  party  may 
consider  that  the  indulgence  has  been  Tmjustly 
granted  or  refused. — No.  2502,  D.  C.  Euanwelle, 
(M.) 

Dec.  23,  (M.  R.  N.) 

292. — The  Supreme  Coiu-t  would  be  unwilling 
to  leave  a  party  in  a  state  of  destitution  at  the 


Action  for 

money 

■belonging  to 

third  parties. 

Deposit. 


Defence. 


Infraction  of 
Revenue  Laws. 


Confiscation, 
Fostponements. 


Rights  ol 
CMWreur"- 


18R5. 


BcKtitution  of 
the  Parent. 


Stamp — 

Acknowledg" 

mnit  of  a 

balance. 


Letters — 
Collateral 
Evidence. 


Assignment  of 
a  debt. 


Former 
Transactions. 


[tol 

stiit  of  her  cliildren  ;  but  if  the  latter  insist  upon 
their  right,  that  right  murit  be  euiorced,  however 
harsh  the  proceeding  may  appear.  If  however 
the  cnstomary  law  of  the  district  would  give  her 
any  right  to  the  occupancy  of  the  land  claimed, 
during  her  life,  on  the  ground  of  her  relationship, 
her  poverty  and  of  her  having  been  allowed  to 
continue  for  so  many  years  to  reside  upon  it,  the 
Court  would  gladly  sanction  a  decree  which  would 
Secure  her  from  being  turned  out  of  the  land.— 
No.  1613,  D.  C,  Wallegame  (M.) 

Dec.  30,  (M.  N.) 

293. — A  document  acknowledging  a  balaace  to 
be  due  on  settlement  of  account,  was  held  admis- 
sible in  evidence  under  cl.  9  of  the  Keg.  No.  4 
of  1827  (and  conclusive  against  the  party  sign- 
ing it,)  for  the  collateral  purpose  of  shewing  what 
the  balance  was,  though  it  could  not  have  been 
received  in  evidence,  if  attempted  to  be  enforced 
as  a  Promissory  Note.  So  a  letter  would  be  ad- 
missible if  produced  not  for  the  purpose  of  en- 
forcing it  as  an  agreement  but  to  increase  by  its 
collateral  evidence  the  probability  of  any  fact 
having  taken  place. — No.  4099,  l).  0.  Colombo, 
S.  (M.) 

294. — After  a  debtor  has  admitted  a  specific 
sum  to  be  due  by  him  on  settlement  of  accounta, 
and  after  that  debt  has  been  assigned  over  on 
good  consideration  to  a  third  party,  the  debtor 
is  not  at  liberty  to  rake  up  old  transactions  of 
many  years  standing,  and  to  bring  forward  admis- 
sions  of  the  original  creditor,  so  as  to  affect  the 
assignee  of  the  debt.  And  even  if  no  assignment 
of  the  debt  took  place,  and  the  action  is  between 
the  original  parties,  the  strongest  evidence  would 
be  required  to  rebut  the  solemn  acknowledgment 
of  a  debtor.-^Jbid. 


1836. 

Costs  against 
an  Executor. 


Divisions  of  the 

Island  into 

Provinces, 

Circuits,  and 

Districts. 


Jurisdiction  of 
District  Coui-ts. 


Transfer  of  a 

case,  Avhere  tlie 

Jud^,.  is  a 

pai-ty. 


January  6,  1836. 

2P5. — Where  an  Executor  or  Administrator 
pleads  a  false  plea,  lie  is  liable  to  the  costs  out  of 
iis  own  property. — No.  565,  D.  0.  Manar,  (M.) 

296. — The  Island  is  divided,  by  the  Proclama- 
tion of  the  1st  October  1833,  into  Provinces  as 
regards  Revenue  matters.  It  is  divided  by  the 
Charter  into  Circuits  and  the  District  of  Colombo, 
and  again  by  the  Proclamation  sub-divided  into 
L'islricts  as  regards  the  administratiou  of  Justice. 
It  is  the  judicial  division  of  District  and  not  the 
Revenue  division  of  Province,  which  must  decide 
the  question  of  jurisdiction. — No.  2432,  D.  C. 
Trincomalie,  (M.) 

297. — Where  one  of  two  defendants  in  a  suit 
■was  the  Judge  of  the  District  tlourt  in  whicli  the 
suit  had  been  instituted,  the  Supreme  Court  or- 
dered the  case  to  be  transferred  to  the  (.'ourt  of 
an  adjoining  District  (Trincomalie);  which,  under 
cl.  24  of  the  Charter,  was  held  competent  to  en- 
tertain the  case  as  against  that  defendant,  and 
having  been  elected  by  the  plaintiff  as  one  of  the 
districts  immediately  adjoining,  was  bound  to 
hear  and  decide  it,  unless  some  very  strong  rea- 
son should  be  shewn  for  transferring  it  to  another 
Court. — Ihid. 

298. — Where  possession  has  been  enjoyed  for 
many  years  uninterruptedly  and  without  contest, 
the  title  or  right  of  possession  becomes  in  fact  an 
adverse  one  against  all  the  world  ;  because  as  no 
body  has  disputed  it,  the  law  presumes  that  the 
possessor  has  aJWtter  right  to  it  than  any  other, 
even  though  he  has  not  a  single  paper  or  docu- 
ment to  shew  in  support  of  his  title.  And  this 
is  the  very  essence  of  a  Title  by  Prescription. — 
No.  1652,  D.  0.  Negombo,  (M.) 

299. — MTi^re  a  Proctor  has  not  been  employed       Proctor,— 
as  a  Proctor   in   the  particular  business    which    whencmnpetent 
forms  the  subject  of  the  .enquiry,  ie  is  not  inad- 


Possessiou — 
Adverse  title. 


1836. 


Interpretsr — 
Opinion  and 
Evidence  of. 


Evidence  to 
discredit  a 
"W'ituesii. 


Sole  of 

mortgaged 

property — 

Opposition  by 

the  Creditor. 


Amendment  of 
Libel. 


172] 

missible  as  a  witness,  even  ttowgh  he  may  have 
been  consulted  confidentially  :  and  the  reason  is 
that  any  disclosures  made  to  him  by  the  party  were 
not  made  to  him  as  his  proctor,  in  which  charac- 
ter alone,  viz.  as  the  retained  counsel  or  proctor, 
the  ohh'gation  to  secrecy  exists. — Ibid. 

300. — The  opinion  of  an  Interpreter  of  the 
Court  is  the  best  that  can  be  obtained  as  to  the 
precise  meaning  of  words  and  expressions  in  a 
native  deed.  But  his  opinion,  as  Interpreter, 
can  scarcely  be  received  as  matter  of  inference 
that  "  if  the  plantation  alone  had  been  intended 
in  a  deed,  the  deed  ought  or  would  have  specified 
the  plantation,"  for  this  is  a  matter  not  so  much 
of  interpretation  of  languages  as  of  law  or  custom. 
If  he  is  sufficiently  acquainted  with  the  custom 
to  give  evidence  of  it,  he  may  be  asked,  not  as 
Interpreter,  but  as  a  witness,  what  the  custom  of 
the  country  is  with  respect  to  the  wording  of 
deeds  in  distinguishing  between  ground -share  and 
planter's-sharer— No.  7991,  D.  C.  Colombo,  N. 
(M.) 

301. — A  deed  should  not  he  received  in  evi- 
dence for  the  purpose  of  discrediting  a  Witness. 
The  rule  on  the  subject  is,  that  the  general  cha- 
racter only  of  a  witness  may  be  enquired  into,  but 
not  particular  facts  or  occurrences  ;  because  every 
man  may  be  supposed  capable  of  supporting  hig 
general  character,  though  he  may  not  be  prepared 
to  answer  to  particular  facts,  not  in  issue,  and  of 
which  therefore  he  would  have  no  notice. — No. 
11371,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (M.) 

Jan.  13. 

302. — It  by  no  means  follows  that  because  a 
creditor  did  not  assert  his  right,  at  a  Fiscal's  sale, 
so  earnestly  as  he  might  have  done,  he  has  forfeit- 
ed his  right  to  recover  the  debt  due  on  a  mort- 
gage of  the  land  sold.— No.  2507,  D.  0.  CMlaw, 
(M.) 

303. — A  plaintiff  is  entitled  to  amend  his  libel, 
provided  the  proposed  amendment  be  such  as,  if 
introduced  in  the  first  instance,  would  not  have 
rendered  the  libel  inadmissible.     As  it  would  be 


[73] 


1836. 


HO  objection  to  the  receptiou  of  a  libel  in  tbe  first 
instance  that  it  includes  both  principal  and  inter- 
est, so  there  is  no  reason  \^hy  the  plaintiff  should 
not  be  allowed  to  add  his  claim  for  the  principal 
to  one  originally  made  for  interest,  without  sub- 
jecting the  parties  to  the  expense  of  a  double 
action.— No.  6776,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (M.) 

304. — In  a  case  from  Ratnapoora,  where  the 
fact  of  the  adoption  of  certain  children  had  been 
proved  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Court;  Held  that 
there  was  no  good  reason  why  the  adopted  sons 
should  not  be  joined  with  the  widow  in  the  admi- 
nistration of  the  husband's  estate. — No.  4,  D.  0. 
Ratnapoora,  (M.) 

Jan.  20,  (M.  E.) 
305. — Where  the  plaintiff,  a  Buddhist  Priest, 
claimed  a  certain  field,  by  virtue  of  a  sale  and  of 
■uninterrupted  possesssion  on  the  part  of  the  Tem- 
ple from  the  time  of  such  sale  ;  and  the  evidence 
adduced  in  the  case  only  proved  a  constant  pos- 
session  by  the  alleged  vendor  and  the  defendant, 
but  paying  anda  to  the  Temple  ;  Held  I,  that  if 
the  plaintiff  had  rested  his  claim  to  the  om«Za-share 
alone  on  the  prescriptive  right  acquired  by  long 
payment,  he  might  probably  have  been  entitled 
to  a  continuance  of  that  payment ;  but  as  he  had 
founded  it  on  &  sale  and  on  uninterrupted  pos- 
session (neither  of  which  had  been  satisfactorily 
proved,)  the  action  should  have  been  dismissed ; 
but  held  2,  that  the  defendant  having  admitted 
that  anda  was  due  to  the  Temple,  and  that  he 
had  tendered  thirty  ridies,  which  liad  been  refus- 
ed, the  field  was  liablo  to  the  extent  of  that  ad- 
mission, bnt  no  further  ;  and  that  the  property  in 
the  field  should  be  declared  to  be  in  the  defendant, 
and,  after  payment  of  the  thirty  ridies,  it  should 
be  exempted  from  the  payment  of  the  anda- 
ehare. — No.  747,  D.  C.  Ratnapoora,  (M.) 

306. — The  bare  production  of  an  instrument, 
tmsupported  by  proof,  amounts  to  nothing  at  all. 
—Ibid. 

307.— The  Procl.  of  the  25th  March  1824  has 
been  virtually  repealed,  at  least  as  regards  the  first 
BIX  clauses  of  it,  by  cl.  56  of  the  Charter,  taken  in 


Adopted. 

ChiWren, 

ioined  as 

Administratoi-s. 


Claim  foUiiiled 
on  a  Sale  and 


Variance. 


Admission  by 
defendant. 


Proof  of  an 
Instrument. 


Stamp  duty- 


1886. 


Exemption 

in  favour  of 

Temples. 


Eules 
of  Practice. 


Value  of  the 

property  in 

suit,  how 

ascertained. 


Appeal  in 

forma  piiuperis — 

i*rovisioii  as  to 

futui'e  costs. 


Eights  of  the 

Govemment — 

Ohjeetion  hy  a 

third  party. 


Eight  of 

re-selling,  on 

default  of  the 

purchaser. 


Confiscation — 

Delay  on  the 

part  of  Govt. 

Officers, 


[74] 

connection  witli  the  order  of  the  Supreme  Court 
of  the  1st  October  1838,  establishing  the  table  of 
Stamps  to  be  levied  in  District  Courts,  and  in  which 
no  exception  is  made  in  favour  of  Temples  and  of 
those  appearing  on  behalf  of  Temples. — Ibid. 

Jan.  27,  (M.  E.) 

308.— The  Rules  of  Practice  were  never  in- 
tended to  provide  for  every  possible  emergency 
or  for  every  collateral  step  which  might  become 
necessary  in  the  progress  of  a  suit. 

Where  the  vakie  fixed  by  the  plaintiff  on  the 
property  in  dispute,  is  contested  by  the  defend- 
ant, the  practice  of  the  Courts  has  always  been  to 
allow  a  Commission  to  appraise  the  property  ; 
and  it  by  no  means  follows  that  because  this 
course  is  not  expressly  provided  for  by  Regula- 
tion or  by  the  Rules,  it  cannot  be  legally  adopted. 
—No.  1982,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (M.) 

809. — Where  a  defendant,  as  appellant,  suc- 
ceeded in  appeal,  (the  plaintiff  proceediiig-.4!i8;,ss: 
pauper,)  it  was  ordered  that  in  case  of  the  plain- 
tiff olitaiuihg  a  dftccee  in  his  favour  in  the  Court 
below,  the  costs  incurred  by  the  defendant  in  his 
appeal  should  be  deducted  out  of  the  costs  which 
might  be  awarded  to  the  plaintiff. — Ibid. 

February  3,  (M.  R.  N.) 

310. — The  objection  that  the  property  claimed 
by  a  party  is  Ratmahare  land,  is  an  objection  for 
the  Government,  and  not  for  a  private  party,  to 
urge.— No.  2563,  D.  0.  Ruanwelle,  (N.) 

311. — The  condition  as  to  the  creditor's  option 
to  insist  on  a  resale  in  case  of  default  in  the  pay- 
ment of  the  purchase-money,  cannot  be  taken  ad- 
vantage of  in  the  way  of  redemption  by  the 
debtor,  who  forfeits  all  title  to  the  land  from  the 
moment  of  sale  if  not  of  seizure  in  execution,  far 
less  by  a  person  who  is  a  mere  claimant  through 
the  debtor. — Ibid. 

312. — On  an  appeal  against  a  decree  confiscat- 
ing a  dhoney,  it  appeared  that  the  vessel  had 
arrived  at  Calpentyn  in  September  1834,  and  that 
the  action  had  not  been  brought  until  October 


[75] 


1886. 


1835.  The  only  excuse  alleged  for  this  delay  was 
that  the  plaintiff  (the  Onstom-master  of  Calpentyn) 
had  waited  till  he  was  furnished  with  a  copy  of 
the  Manar  port-clearance.  Per  Marshall,  C.  J. — 
''  The  Supreme  Court  can  scarcely  suppose  that  the 
plaintiff  was  serious  in  assigning  as  a  reason  for 
twelve  months'  delay  in  the  execution  of  his  duty, 
the  want  of  a  document  which  it  must  be  presum- 
ed might  have  been  procured  with  the  greatest 
«ase  in  a  week.  The  Crown,  it  is  true,  is  not 
hound  by  the  ordinary  rules  of  Prescription ;  but 
it  is  the  duty  of  the  Courts  of  Justice  to  enquire 
into  any  apparent  neglect  on  the  part  of  the  Offi- 
cers of  Government,  by  which  hardship  or  injus- 
tice may  be  done  to  those  who  are  prosecuted  for 
breach  of  the  Revenue  Laws.  And  both  hard- 
ship and  injustice  must  be  inflicted  by  any  un- 
necessary delay  in  the  institution  of  such  prose- 
cutions. Unless  therefore  it  can  be  shewn  t±iat 
the  plaintiff  was  prevented  by  some  cause  over 
which  he  had  no  controul  from  procuring  the  port- 
clearance  within  a  reasonable  time,  the  S.  0.  will 
feel  it  to  be  its  duty  to  r«;ommend  to  the  Govern- 
ment a  remission  of  the  confiscation,  even  if  the 
defendant  should  fail  in  establishing  a  good  ground 
of  defence."— No.  2547,  D.  0.  Chilaw,  (M.) 

Feb.  6,  (M.  R.  N.) 

313. — The  right  of  re-entry,  on  the  ground  of 
non-cultivation  can  only  be  enforced  by  a  Court 
of  Justice  on  proof  of  such  neglect;  and,  as  re- 
gards Crown-lands ;  Held  that  if  the  Government 
had  determined  on  resuming  possession  on  the 
groimd  of  non-compliance  with  the  conditions 
of  the  original  grant,  such  resumption  would  not 
be  presumed,  even  where  it  appeared  that  the  Go- 
vernment-share had  never  been  paid  ;  but  should 
fee  proved  to  hate  been  made  in  a  public  authen- 
tic shape,  and  recorded  in  the  Court  by  which  it 
had  been  adjudicated. — No.  6715,  D.  0.  Colombo, 
S.  (M.) 

314. — The  abandonment  of  Cinnamon-grounds, 
during  the  time  when  the  cultivation  or  destruc- 
tion of  Cinnamon  was  prohibited  by  Government, 
does  not  operate  as  a  dereliction  of  all  future  right 


Eight  of 

Re-entry,  how 

enforced. 


Dereliction  of 
Cinnamon- 
grounds, 


1836. 


Marriage 
lUegitimacy. 


GoTemment 
Fi'ocliunaUon. 


Prescription — 
Possession  by 
Crown  of  Cin- 
namon-grounds. 


Matrimonial 
Jurisdiction. 


[76] 

to  the  land,  so  as  to  pTeclude  the  owner  _  front 
reckiming.it  from  Government  on  the  abolition  of 
such  exclusive  right. — Ibid. 

315. — It  was  urged  in  appeal,  that  the  plaintiffs, 
who  claimed  certain  lands  as  the  children  of  A. 
appeared,  according  to  a  Thombo-extract  produc- 
ed in  the  case,  to  have  been  born  out  of  wedlock ; 
but  ttiis  objection  not  having  been  taken  in  the 
Court  below,  the  Supreme  Court  refused  to  enter- 
tain it,  and  held  that,  even  if  it  had  been  so  taken, 
the  answer  would  have  been  that  half  the  natives 
in  the  Island  might  probably  be  dispossessed  of 
their  property,  if  it  were  necessary  for  them  to 
shew  a  regular  marriage  between  their  parents. 
—Ibid. 

316. — The  effect  of  an  Advertisement  or  Pro- 
clamation by  Government  would  depend  on  the 
terms  of  it,  on  the  degree  of  publicity  given  to  it, 
and  on  the  effect  it  might  have  produced  on  the 
public  in  general. — Ibid. 

317. — Where  the  Crown  had  the  right  to  ■iako 
the  cultivation  of  Cinnamon -lai.d  into  its  own 
hands  exclusively,  ond  the  owner  of  the  soil,  as  he 
^uid  in  no  way  interfere  with,  or  impede  such 
cultivation,  ceased  at  length  to  derive  any  ad- 
vantage whatever  from  the  naked  right  of  pos- 
session ;  Held  that  an  occupancy  by  the  Crown 
under  such  circumstances,  was  not  that  species  of 
possession  which  the  Law  of  Prescription  con- 
templates, and  which  presumes  a  voluntary  ac- 
quiescence on  the  part  of  the  claimant  — Ibid. 

318. — The  District  Courts  have  jurisdiction 
over  matrimonial  causes  and  possess  the  power  of 
dissolving  a  Marriage.  The  words  "  aU  suits"  in 
cl.  24  of  the  Charter,  comprehend  matrimonial 
causes  as  well  as  others ;  it  having  been  the  in- 
tention of  those  who  framed  the  Charter  to  con- 
fer the  most  extensive  jurisdiction  on  the  District 
Courts  in  all  but  criminal  matters  of  a  grave 
nature,  and  a  matrimonial  jurisdiction  among 
others.  IQu.  whether  the  District  Courts  have 
the  power  of  granting  a  divorce,  when  the  parties 
belong  to  another  nation  or  hav  e  married  in  a 


[77] 


]83ff. 


foreign  country  ?]  With  respect  to  the  Supreme 
Court  exercising  thia  jurisdiction,  Held  that  as  the 
above  clause  does  vest  it  in  the  District  Courts,  it 
must  be  exercised  by  them,  under  the  terms  of 
the  29th  clause,  exdusiveli/. — No.  11016,  D.  C. 
Colombo,  S.  (M.) 

319. — In  suits  for  Divorce,  although  it  may 
appear  at  first  sight  that  parties  would  be  without 
appeal  to  the  King  in  Council,  where  no  value 
appears  as  the  measure  of  the  inj  iiry  sought  to  be 
redressed;  yet  the  Supreme  Court  will  supply  that 
apparent  omission  by  considering  every  case  of 
this  description  as  above  the  value  of  £500,  since 
questions  of  this  nature  cannot  be  measured,  as  to 
their  importance,  by  money  to  any  amount. — Ibid. 

Feb.  18,  (R.  N.) 

320.— The  7th  Clause  of  the  Reg.  No.  13  of 
1822,  contemplates,  as  regards  the  wages  of  ar- 
tisans, labourers  and  servants,  only  minor  earn- 
ings payable  daily,  weekly,  monthly  or  at  such 
other  olrsW period  as  would  justify  the  presump- 
tion of  payment  and  the  consequent  prescription, 
if  not  sued  for  wifMn  one  year ;  but  where  a  party 
has  agreed  in  writing  to  pay  a  fixed  sum  on  the 
completion  of  a  certain  work,  at  some  indefinite 
period,  it  cannot  be  considered  as  wages  within 
the  meaning  of  the  7th  clause,  but  may  be  sued 
for  at  any  period  within  10  years,  under  the  4th 
clause,  as  explained  by  Reg.  No.  6  of  1825. — No. 
564,  D.  C.  Wadimoratchy,  (N.) 

March  30,  (N.  R.) 

The  Hon'ble  Sir  William  Norris,  Knt.,  was 
sworn  in  as  Chief  Justice. 

April  9,  (N.  R.  C.) 

The  Hon'ble  William  Ogle  Carr,  Esquire, 
was  sworn  in  as  Acting  Second  Puisne  Justice. 

321. — The  subject  of  Namptissement  is  not,  it  is 
true,  mentioned  in  the  Rules  and  Orders,  but  the 
same  may  be  said  of  almost  innumerable  other 
matters,  which  it  would  have  been  useless  as  well 
as  impracticable  to  have  embraced  within  a  com- 
pilation intended  merely  for  the  guidance  of  the 


Suit  for  a 

Divorce — 

Ap;ieal  to  the 

Privy  Council. - 


Prescription — 

Wages  of 

Artisans,  &c. 


Namptisse- 
ment— 
Rules  &  Orders 


1836. 


Priority  of 
Creditors. 


Carrier — 
OLligations  of. 


Proof  of 
the  voyage. 


Damages- 
Costs. 


Title  under  a 
I'itocal's  Sale. 


[78] 

District  r-ourts  in   matters  of  every-day  impor- 
tance.—No.  2632,  D.  0.  Galle,  (N.) 

322. — Hard  as  it  may  seem,  it  is  nevertheless 
clear  that  by  the  Civil  Law  the  activity  and  dili- 
gence of  a  creditor  are  not  sufficient  to  entitle 
him  to  the  fruits  of  his  superior  diligence,  to  the 
exclusion  of  other  creditors  -whose  claims  are  pri- 
or in  point  of  date,  so  long  as  the  property  or  its 
proceeds  are  within  the  custody  or  control  of  the 
Court.— No.  2368,  D.  0.  Jaffna,  (N.) 

Jp«716,  (N.  R.  C.)_ 

323. — Everything  is  negligence  in  a  Carrier  or 
a  Hoyman  (master  of  a  carrying  vessel,)  that  the 
Law  does  not  excuse.  He  is  answerable  for  goods 
whilst  in  his  custody  and  in  all  events,  except  they 
happen  to  be  damaged  by  the  act  of  God  er  the 
King's  enemies.  And  a  promise  to  carry  safely 
is  a  promise  to  keep  safely.*  And  though  the 
party  be  no  common  carrier,  yet  if  he  takes  hire, 
he  may  be  charged  upon  his  special  promise.-j- 

Where  it  was  attempted  to  be  proved  that  the 
injury  to  the  goods  shipped  in  a  vessel"  had  oc- 
curred through  u-  iuaworthiness  of  the  vessel ; 
Held  that  this  evidence  was  unnecessary,  as  the 
evidence  was  forcible  in  proof  of  the  goods  hav- 
ing been  put  on  board  dry  and  in  sound  condi- 
tion.—No.  6613,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (R.) 

324. — Where  damages  have  been  allowed,  they 
should  cany  costs  with  them. — No.  3696,  D.  C. 
Four  Corles,  (C.) 

April  20,  (N.  R.  C.) 
325. — A  Fiscal's  Sale  is  not  of  necessity  bind- 
ing, so  as  to  give  an  irresponsible  title  to  the  pur- 


•  See  Voet  ad  Pmid.  iv.  9. — Van  Leeuw  Cms.  For.  part.  1. 
lib.  XXX.  tit.  3.— Bynliersh,  Q.  J.  Priv.  c.  iv.— V.  d.  Keessel,  Thes. 
083,  3.— V.  Linden,  Jud.  Praot.  p.  370,  and  per  Eough  J.— 
"  Tlie  passage  in  Uollay  b.  ii.  c.  3.  §  13,  stating  tbat  by  the 
JWarine  Law,  he  that  will  cliai-ge  a  Master  with  a  fault,  as  in  re- 
lation to  bis  duty,  must  not  tliink  that  a  general  charge  is  suf- 
ficient in  law,  but  ought  to  assign  and  specify  the  very  fault 
wherewith  he  is  charged,— certainly  must  have  reference  to 
suits  ex  dfhcto  only.  The  dictum  is  inapplicable  to  cases  of  con- 
rwV'";;^^^  alsoZlaZe  v.  Hall,  lWils.28],  and  Ooff^.  CUnkard, 
1  \\ils.  383. 

+  liacon's  Abridg.  vol. 
Salk.  Eep.  12. 


Carriers  B.~Palm.  Rep.  53S.-» 


[79   ] 


1836. 


chaser  against  all  claimants. — No.   5663,   D.  C. 
Matura,  (R.) 

326. — In  an  action  to  recover  certain  cattle 
from  the  defendant,  the  Supreme  Court  held  that 
the  length  of  possession  of  the  cattle  by  the  de- 
fendant, having  been  accompanied  (as  appear- 
ed by  the  evidence  of  one  of  the  witnesses,  a 
PoKce  Vidahn,)  by  an  acknowldgment  of  the 
title  of  the  plaintiff,  was  no  bar  to  the  plaintiff's 
claim,  and  remanded  the  case  for  further  evidence. 
—No.  2643,  D.  0.  BaUiccdoa,  (0.) 

327. — A  District  Judge  may  not  alter  his  own 
decree.— No.  1624,  D.  C.  Walligame,  (R.) 

328. — A  case  was  remanded  to  the  District 
Court,  in  order  that  the  defsndant's  witnesses 
might  be  heard  and  the  case  re-decided,  if  the 
defendant  should  satisfy  the  District  Court  that  he 
had  really  been  misled  (sbs  alleged  by  her  Proctor,) 
by  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  Court. — No.  7799,  D. 
^£,_(7o7ombo,  iV.  (N.) 

329. — It  did  not  clearly  appear  in  what  cha- 
racter a  person  called  as  a  v/itness  in  a  case  Jiad 
acted,  in  amending  a  certain  bill  at  the  plaintiffs 
request,  in  a  former  suit :  but  held  that  if  he  was 
then  acting  as  the  Proctor  for  the  plaintiff,  or  as 
an  Interpreter  or  Agent  for  such  Proctor  between 
him  and  the  plaintiff,  his  evidence  of  any  commu- 
nications made  to  him  in  that  suit  by  the  plain- 
tiff would  be  inadmissible  against  the  latter  in  the 
subsequent  case. — No.  2196,  D.  0.  Batticoloa,  (0.) 

April  27,  (N.  R.  0.) 

330. — The  plaintiff's  admission  of  a  part-pay- 
ment certainly  discharges  the  defendant  from  prov- 
ing such  payment,  but  it  raises  no  presumption 
against  the  plaintiff's  claim  for  the  arrears  due. 
Where  the  bond  is  admitted  and  has  been  allowed 
to  remain  in  the  plaintiff's  possession  uncancelled, 
it  is  for  the  defendant  to  discharge  himself  there- 
from.—No.  1370,  D.  C.  Caltwra,  (C.) 

May  4. 

.  331. — Where  a  party  had  expended  money  in 
defraying  the  funeral  expenses  of  her  deceased 


Possession — 
Acknowledg- 
ment of  title. 


Decree, — can- 
not be  altered. 

Party — misled 

by  a  cleric  of 

the  Court. 


Proctor — 
Proctor's  Agent. 


Privileged 
communication. 


Admission  of 
part-payment. 


Pond- 
Proof  of 
payment. 


Funeral 
Expenses. 


183G. 


[80T 


Agreement — 

Accexjtance  of 

offers  made. 


Eeyersal  of 
a  Decree  on 
contradictory 
evidence  and 
on  Possession 
proved,  though 
not  pleaded. 


Decree — 
Third  Parties. 


Arljitration — 

Want  of  Assent 

of  the  Pai-ties. 


Report  of  Uie 
Arbitrator. 


illeffitimate  hustand,  which  she  was  not  bound  m 
law  to  provide  for,  she  was  held  entitled  to  re- 
cover re-payment  thereof  from  the  personal  repre- 
sentative of  the  deceased  out  of  the  assets  or  pro- 
perty left  by  him.— No.  3109,  D.  C.  Trincoma- 
lie,  (0.) 

Ilai/  7,  (N.  E.  C.) 
332. — Where  there  was  no  satisfactory  evi- 
dence to  shew  that  certain  offers  made  by  the 
defendant  had  been  accepted,  either  expressly  or 
impliedly,  by  the  plaintiff;  ffeld  that  there  could 
not  be  said  to  have  been  any  Agreement  between 
them.— No.  9645,  D.  0.  Colombo,  S.  (N.) 

333. — A  decree  of  the  District  Court  of  Kandy 
was  reversed  in  appeal ;  and  per  Oarr  J. — 
"  The  Supreme  Court  discredits  the  evidence  ad- 
duced by  the  plaintiff,  considering  the  variances 
in  the  testimony  of  his  several  witnesses,  more  es- 
pecially as  the  length  of  time  which  the  plaintiff 
has  allowed  the  defendant  to  retain  possession.pf 
the  property  in  dispute,  without  hav-ng  any  writ- 
ten acknowledgment  or  evidonce  in  proof  of  his 
right  and  without  instituting  any  action  for  the 
xeco-very  of  the  said  property,  would  have  been  a 
bar  to  theia-  suit  ui;der  the  Reg.  No.  8  of  1834, 
if  it  tad  been  properly  pleaded." — No.  7476,  D. 
C.  Kandij.,  <C.) 

334. — Where  a  person  has  not  been  a  party  to 
a  suit,  and  does  not  claim  by  inheritance  from  or 
otherwise  through  silch  party,  his  claims  are  not 
barred  or  affected  by  a  decree  pronounced  in  that 
suit. — No.  685,  D.  C.  Ratnapoora,  (C.) 

335. — Where  there  appeared  to  be  some  doubt 
as  to  whether  or  not  the  assent  of  the  parties  had 
been  freely  and  irrevocably  given  to  an  Arbitra- 
tion, (which  was  the  sulject-mattor  of  the  com- 
plaint in  appeal,)  the  case  was  referred  back  for 
the  reconsideration  of  the  District  Judge,  who 
was  directed  to  hear,  himself,  such  evidence  as 
might  be  offered,  and  to  give  his  final  decree  ac- 
cordingly, making  such  use,  as  he  might  see  fit, 
of  the  reports  made  by  the  Arbitrators  and  the 
Umpire.— No.  1639,  D.  C.  Walligarm,  (R.) 


tsi  J 


188«. 


May  18,  (N.  R.  C.) 

336. — WLere  the  defendant  had  been  a  party 
to  a  former  suit  in  respect  of  the  same  property, 
wherein  it  had  been  held  that  he  could  not  be  dis- 
possessed of  such  property,  the  plaintiff  in  that 
Buit  having  shewn  no  right  thereto ;  and  it  was 
contended  that  the  plaintiff  in  "the  subsequent  suit 
should  have  intervened  in  that  case,  and,  not  hav- 
ing done  so,  was  precluded  from  bringing  his  ac- 
tion ;  Held  that  he  w^as  not  actually  excluded  from 
so  doing,  even  though  he  had  purposed  to  inter- 
vene in  th«  former  suit,  but  found  it  so  far  advanc- 
ed that  he  had  deemed  it  more  prudent  to  bring 
another  suit.— No.  743,  D.  C.  Four  Corles,  (E.) 

337. — A  District  Judge  possesses  at  his  discre- 
tion ample  power  over  the  Proctors  of  his  Court 
to  enforce  their  personal  obedience  and  due  atten- 
tion to  its  orders. — No.  12413,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (C.) 

338. — A  case  having  been  struck  off  on  the 
ground  of  neglect  on  the  part  of  the  plaintiffs 
Proctor,  the  Supreme  Court  directed  it  to  be  res- 
tored to  the  List  on  payment  by  the  Proctor  of  the 
costs  which  the  defendant  may  have  incurred  by 
the  postponement ;  and  per  Carr,  J., — "  The 
plaintiffs  sue  as  executors,  and  would  morever  be 
barred  under  the  Ordinance  by  lapse  of  time  from 
reinstituting  any  fresh  suit  to  recover  their  pre- 
sent claim  ;  and  these  circumstances  should  rather 
have  induced  the  Court  below  to  have  adopted  a 
lenient  course  of  proceeding  in  the  present  case. 
—Hid. 

339. — A  case  was  returned  to  the  District 
Court,  in  order  that  the  defendant  might  have 
one  more  opportunity  of  summoning  liis  witnesses, 
on  compliance  (but  not  othervyise)  vnth  the  con- 
dition allowed  in  such  cases  by  rule  24,  sec.  1, 
viz.  payment  into  Court  of  the  plaintiff's  costs  of 
the  day  ;  which  condition  did  not  appear  to  have 
been  offered  to  him  by  the  District  Court. — No. 
3545,  D.  C.  Four  Corles,  (N.) 

,  May  25,  (N.  R.  C.) 

340.— If  the  Reg.  No.  13  of  1822  or  No.  8  of 
1834,  has  not  been  pleaded,  uo  benefit  can  accrue 


Decree — not 

binding  on 

Third  parties, 

(not  being 

Intervenieuts.) 


Power  of  D,  J. 
over  Proctors. 


Neglect  of 
Proctor — 


Prescription 

of  Plaintiffs 

claim. 


Postponement 

on  payment  of 

CostE. 


Prescription—. 

ought  to  be 

pleaded. 


1836. 


[82  3 


Service-parreny. 

Forfeiture  by 

■alienatiaii. 


tSeg.  of  Frauds. 
Eecovery  of 
money  paid. 


Prescriptive 
title. 


Bights  of  son, 

during  Father's 

life-time. 


Terljal  bequest. 


lies  Judicata. 


Heatiiutio  in 
inUgmm, 


therefrom  to  a  party.— :No.  956,  D.  C.  Walligaim, 
(K.) 

June  1,  (N.  K.  C.) 

341. — As  between  private  parties,  the  forfeit- 
ure incurred  by  the  alienation  of  service -parveny- 
land,  IS  a  bar  to  the  alienor's  action  as  against  a 
party  in  possession,  whatever  may  be  the  rights 
of  the  Government. — No.  1652,  D.  C.  Negomho, 
(N.) 

342.— Though  in  consequence  of  an  agreement 
for  the  purchase  of  land  not  having  been  reduced 
into  writing  (pursuant  to  the  Reg.  No.  4  of  1817,) 
the  purchaser  may  not  be  entitled  to  recover  the 
land,  yet  he  is  entitled  to  recover  back  the  money 
advanced  for  the  purchase  thereof,  and  also  the 
expenses  incurred  by  him  in  improving  the  same. 
—No.  1571,  D.  C.  Walligarne,  (0.) 

343. — Viliere  the  defendant's  grand-father  had 
been  proved  to  have  acquired  a  prescriptive  title 
to  certain  lands  :  Held  that  this  might  have  been 
available  to  his  immediate  heir,  the  defendant's 
father,  but  certainly  not  to  the  defendant  him- 
self during  his  father's  life-time.  [The  father  had, 
it  appears,  long  since  abandoned  the  land,  and 
there  was  no  evidence  of  a  transfer  of  his  title  to 
the  defendant.]— No.  1957,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (N.) 

344. — A  verbal  bequest  of  lands  was  held  to  be 
invalid  under  the  provisions  of  the  Proclamation 
of  the  28th  Oct.  1820.— No.  784,  D.  0.  Ratna- 
poora,  (0.) 

June  4,  (N.  R.) 

345. — Where  a  decree  pronounced  by  a  Dis- 
trict Court  had  been  affirmed  by  the  Supreme 
Court,  and  no  directions  given  as  to  the  institu- 
tion of  another  suit  between  the  same  parties 
touching  the  same  right,  and  no  appeal  success- 
fully interposed;.  Beld  that  the  subject-matter 
thereof  had  passed  in  rem  jvdicatam  ;  and  that 
no  remedy  remained  save  that  of  Restitutio  in 
Jntegrwn,  to  be  sought  for  through  the  Sover- 
eign in  Council  on  the  ground  of  the  decree 
and  JAdgme«t.  b«vi»g  heea  obtaiaed  «c6  J<diit  in- 


[83] 


strumentis.*  The  Supreme  Court  on  these  gtounds 
reversed  a  subsequent  judgment  in  a  suit  between 
the  same  parties  in  respect  of  the  same  matter. — 
No.  1174,  D.  0.  Matdle,  (R.) 

June  8,  (N.  R.) 
346.— Where  the  late  High  Court  of  Appeal 
had  referred  back  a  case,  with  directions  to  the 
Provincial  Judge  "  to  take  such  further  evidence 
as  might  be  tendered  on  either  side  with  respect 
to  the  attesting  witnesses  to  the  Bond,  and  to  ex- 
amine them,  if  there  were  any ;  and  also  to  hear 
proof  as  to  a  Bond  for  Rds.  1,000  having  been 
admitted  in  account  between  the  parties ;  and  fur- 
ther to  hear  any  witnesses  that  might  be  called 
by  the  plaintiffs ;"  and  the  Judge  of  the  Court 
below  (viz.  the  District  Court,  which  had  since 
taken  the  place  of  the  Provincial  Court,)  had  en- 
tered upon  an  examinstion  of  the  whole  case  as  if 
it  had  been  an  original  one ;  Held  by  the  Supreme 
Court,  on  appeal,  that  if  his  judgment,  though  un» 
3,sked,  were  upon  the  facts  a  correct  one,  it  would 
not  be  justified  in  interfering  with  or  changing 
it,  and  that  the  mere  circumstance  of  the  District 
Judge  having  taken  upon  himself  to  determine 
the  case  more  widely  and  upon  a  more  extended 
view  of  it  than  he  had  been  actually  called  upon 
to  do,  or  in  strictness  had  a  right  to  do.  Was  no 
ground  for  interference  cm  the  part  of  the  Su- 
preme Court.— No.  10423,  D.  C.  Colombo,  N.  (R.) 

347. — Where  a  defendant  had  pleaded  not  in- 
debted, and  it  afterwards  appeared,  in  the  course 
of  the  general  case,  that  more  bonds  than  one 
were  in  existence  ;  Held  that  it  could  hardly  be 
considered  culpable,  or  betraying  trickery  in  the 
defendant,  that  he  should  say  in  his  Answer  that 
he  was  not  indebted,  implpng  that  he  had  made 
payment  thereon.  It  was  no  denial  positive  of 
the  actual  Bond. — Ihid. 

348. — In  an  action  on  a  Bond,  it  was  proved 
that  a  sum  of  Rds.  600  had  been  paid  specifically 
by  the  defendant  in  reference  to  the  Bond  ;  and 
^er  Rough  J., — "  The  plaintiff,  had  she  not  meant 


Proceedings  iut 

a  case  referred 

back  for  fuitlier 

evidenc*. 


Plea  of  not 
indebUd, 


AppfiSJtfiatioB 
of  Paymeiit»L 


*  Van  Leeuw.  Cms,  For.  pai.  ii.  la*.  i,  c.  31.  §  18, 


1838. 


Proof  of  a  lost 
instrument. 


lUs  Judicata. 


Breach  of 
Promise  of 
Carriage. 


Amicable 
Settlement. 


Absence  of 
Witnesses. 


[84  J 

so  to  receive  it,  should  have  made  the  objection 
at  the  time,  and  in  fact  not  have  received  it  at  all ; 
for  she  had  still  her  remedy  by  action. — Ibid, 

349. — "  The  cases  Reed  v.  Brookman*  and 
Hendy  v.  Stephenson^  (the  latter  subsequent  to 
Keeling  v.  Ma,ll,%)  ought  to  make  a  Court  cautious 
how  it  conceded  too  implicit  force  to  the  allegation 
of  loss  [of  an  instrument.]  It  should  require  all 
collateral  proof  possible.  Lord  Kenyon's  dietum 
borrowed  from  Dr.  Leyfield's  case§,  of  not  adding 
calamity  to  calamity,  as  in  a  case  of  loss  by  fire, 
but  receiving  such  evidence  as  offers  itself,  is  ap- 
plicable doubtless  to  the  case  of  Keeling  v.  Hall ; 
for  in  the  latter  case  there  were  no  other  bonds 
subsisting  between  the  parties,  save  the  one  sued 
upon,  and  there  was  direct  evidence  that  the  party 
executing  it  had  acknowledged  that  especial 
BoMdJ'—Jbid. 

350. — The  same  point,  between  the  same  parties-, 
having  been  once  decided,  the  subject-matter  can- 
not be  re-opened.  It  will  be  for  the  District  Judge 
to  determine,  should  another  action  be  attempted, 
whether  or  not  the  question,  which  will  then  be 
in  issue,  be  different  and  distinct. — No.  800,  D.  C. 
Ratnapoora,  (R.) 

351. — Where  a  decree  for  damages  had  been 
passed  against  the  defendant  in  an  action  for 
breach  of  Promise  of  Marriage,  the  Supreme 
Court,  upon  the  defendant  professing  his  readi- 
ness to  marry  the  party,  affirmed  the  decree  con- 
ditionally, and  directed  that  execution  should  be 
stayed  for  two  months  in  order  to  give  the  par- 
ties an  opportunity  of  coming  to  an  amicable  set- 
tlement; in  which  event  judgment  was  to  be 
entered  for  the  plaintiff  for  one  shilling  damages, 
each  party  pajring  his  own  costs. — No.  2794,  D.  0. 
Batticaloa,  (N.) 

352. — "  The  defendant  should  have  been  pre- 
pared with  his  witnesses  at  the  time  of  trial ;  nor 
can  it  be  permitted  him  to   dispute  in  appeal  th» 

•  aT.  Eep.  151. 

+  10  East,  60. 

j  Pealce's  Ev.  App.  83. 

%  10  Co.  Eep.  part,  10,  fol,  93-,  cited  6  M.  &  W.  728. 


[85] 


isnff. 


identity  of  the  subject-matter  of  the  s\iit,  npon  the 
alleged  ground  of  the  witnesses  having  been  bribed 
to  give  testimony  against  him,  of  wliioli  there  is 
no  proof ;  nor  should  such  a,  fact  be  stated." — No. 
16U2,  D.  C.  Seven  Varies,  (R.) 

353. — The  exception  non  mttneratce  ^ecimice 
is  allowable  within  two  years ;  and  the  plaintiff 
shoiild  be  called  iipon  to  prove  the  payment  or  de- 
livery, the  defendant  being  atliberty  to  adduce  coun- 
ter-evidence.— No.  2815,  D.  C.  Batticaloa.  (N.) 

June  15,  (N.  R.  C.) 
354  — On  proceedings  upon  an  opposition  to 
Banns  of  Marriage,  by  a  party  who  stated  that  the 
bridegroom  had  previously  promised  to  marry  his 
daughter,  the  Supreme  Court  directed  that  the 
complainant  (the  bridegroom)  should  be  called  up- 
on to  admit  or  deny  his  alleged  promise  ;  and  in 
the  event  of  denial,  that  the  opponent  should  be 
at  liberty  to  go  into  proof  of  his  allegation,  and 
the  complainant  to  adduce  counter-evidence ; — the 
publication  of  the  banns  in  the  meanwhile  being 
stayed. — Bosabadoegey  v.  Illecuttigej ,  D.  C.  Cal- 
tura,  (N.) 

355. — "  Although  it  be  undoubted  Law  that 
any  interlocutory  order  of  a  District  Court  may 
be  appealed  against,  and,  though  generally  speak- 
ing it  is  the  safer  course  for  the  District  Judge 
to  permit  his  interlocutory  order  to  be  contested 
in  appeal ;  yet  according  to  the  Letter  of  Instruc- 
tion by  the  present  Judge  referred  to,*  he  may, 

•  See  Letter-Book,  1836,  p.  158.  The  letter  referred  to  was 
written  under  the  direction  of  Eough,  J.,  and  is  to  the  follow- 
ing effect : — "  I  am  directed  to  ask,  whether  or  not  the  fact 
mentioned  in  the  Petition  of  Appeal  be  as  stated,  namely  that 
an  order  had  been  made  by  you  as  District  judge,  at  the 
request  of  the  plaintiif,  requiring  the  personal  attendance  of 
the  defendant  for  the  purpose  of  personal  e:samination, — such 
order  appearing  to  have  been  made  aad  entered  upon  the  pro- 
ceedings on  the  1 9th  February  ?  It  is  correct  on  your  part  to 
say  (refening  to  the  letter  addressed  to  you  on  the  31st  Octo- 
ber 1834,)  that  it  is  in  the  exereise  of  your  own  discretion  to 
allow  or  to  disallow  an  appeal  against  an  Interlocutory  Order. 
But  if  an  interlocutory  order  was  really  made  and  entered  regu- 
larly, it  should  have  been  by  you  in  writing  rescinded, — against 
which  rescindment  the  dissatisfied  party  might  have  sought 
to  appeal.  You  might  then  have  either  proceeded  or  not  upon 
the  merits,  including  the  appeal  against  the  rescindment,  and 
leaving  that  point  to  be  settled  .along  with  the  defLuitive  sen- 


False  Evidence 

— no  ground  of 

Appeal. 


■Want  of 
Consideration. 


Opposition  to 

Banns  of 

MaiTiage-^ 

Proceedings 

upon. 


Interlocutoiy 
Order- 
Appeal  against 


Interlocutory" 
Order — may  be 

rescinded  by 
District  Judge. 


i83fr. 


[86] 


Applic:\*ion  for 

postxjonement. — 

Strikine;  off 


Decree — not 
bindinn  on 
Thii-clPajty. 


S.  C.  cannot 
alter  its  own 
Decree. 


T.liere  an  interlocutory  sentence  can  be  set  right 
on  the  definitive,  proceed  to  pronounce  the  latter." 
— No.  114-5,  D.  C.  Amhlangodde,  (R.) 

3oC. — The  District  Courts  are  vested  with  the 
discretionary  power  of  striking  cases  off  the  list 
on  the  absence  of  parties ;  but  it  is  obvious  that 
such  power  should  be  exercised  with  every  indul- 
gent consideration  of  the  particular  circumstances 
of  each  individual  case.  Where  therefore  in  a 
case  which  had  been  struck  off  upon  the  plain- 
tiff's not  being  ready  to  proceed  on  the  day  of 
trial,  it  appeared  that  he  had  attended  the  Court 
on  several  previous  days,  when  the  defendant 
had  absented  himself,  the  Supreme  Court  lield 
this  circumstance  alone  to  be  strongly  in  favor  of 
the  application  for  a  postponement  made  by  the 
plaintiff;  and  accordingly  directed  the  case  to  be 
restored  to  the  List  of  pending  ca.5es. — No.  771, 
D.  C.  Matum,  (C.) 

357. — The  Supreme  Court  referred  a  case  back 
to  tlie  Court  below,  to  take  the  evidence  to  be- 
adduced  by  both  parties  and  to  decide  the  case 
accordingly  thereon  ;  and  per  C.A.RR  J., — "  It  is 
quite  clear  that  any  former  decree  obtained  in 
another  suit  in  favor  of  the  defendant  in  this  case, 
can  be  no  bar  to  the  present  suit  of  the  plaintiff, 
unless  the  plaintiff  had  been  properly  made  a  par- 
ty before  the  Court  to  that  suit,  or  else  deduced 
his  present  title  and  claim  through  the  person 
against  whom  the  decree  in  such  former  suit  was 
passed,  neither  of  which  appears  to  be  the  fact  in 
the  present  instance.  The  defendant  must  there- 
fore in  this  case,  notwithstanding  the  above  de- 
cree, enter  again  fully  into  his  evidence  in  sup- 
port of  his  own  title  against  any  proof  which  may 
be  adduced  bv  the  plaintiff  on  behalf  of  his  claim." 
—No.  3992,  D.  C.  Four  GorUs.,  (C.> 

358. — The  Supreme  Court  haa  no  power  to  al- 
ter or  amend  its  own  decree  without  the  consent 
of  both  parties ;  but  may  give  any  explanatory 

tence.  A  Judge  may  alter  or  recal  an  interlocutory  sentence, 
tliongh  he  may  not  change  or  alter  a  definitive  one  B"t  a* 
the  lase  is  nowjilleged  to  stand,  you  have  avoided  and  passed 
ovsr  without  notice  youi'  own  previou&  order." 


[87  1 


1830. 


direction  wLicli  may  be  necessary  in  order  to  car- 
ry out  a  decree  properly  into  effect. — No.  ',173,  D. 
C.  Matura,  (N.) 

359. — "Where  Possession  ia  alleged  generally, 
without  stating  special  circumstances,  as  planting, 
dwelling  thereon,  &c.,  the  expression  need  not  ne- 
cessarily be  confined  to  mean  the  actual  occupaiion, 
but  is  capable  of  being  understood  in  its  -more 
general  sense  of  th«  party  being  the  proprietor  or 
owner  of  the  land,  especially  where  the  possession 
of  the  actual  occupier,  paying  ground-share  to  the 
plaintiff,  would  in  construction  of  law  be  the  pos- 
session of  the  latter. — No.  905,  D.  0.  Four  Corles, 
(C.) 

360. — Where  it  appeared  that  the  plaintiff  had 
inherited  the  land  in  dispute  from  her  parents, 
and  that  it  had  been  mortgaged  nearly  twenty 
years  before  to  the  defendant,  but  that  there  had 
been  an  acknowledgmnt  of  the  plaintiff's  title  till 
within  the  last  eight  years,  when  the  defendant's 
possession  became  adverse ;  Ihld  1,  that  such 
possession  of  the  defendant  did  not  give  him  a 
prescriptive  title,  and  that  the  plaintiif  would  be 
entitled  still  to  recover  it  on  payment  of  the  al- 
leged debt  due  on  the  mortgage,  unless  the  defend- 
ant could  adduce  evidence  ia  support  of  his  title 
to  set  aside  the  claim  of  the  plaintiff;  and  2,  that 
it  being  a  rule  that  the  right  of  the  Heir  is  favor- 
ed, and  that  he  cannot  be  disinherited  except 
on  clear  proof,  the  plaintiff  had  a  right  to  know 
by  what  means,  or  under  what  deed  he  was  to  be 
disinherited;  and  therefore  that  the  defendant 
should  produce  the  deed  under  which  he  claimed, 
or  shoiild  give  satisfactory  evidence  of  his  title. — 
Ibid. 

361. — The  payment  of  produce  or  ground-share 
by  the  defendant  (who  claimed  as  mortgagee,)  to 
the  plaintiff,  was  held  not  inconsistent  with  the  usual 
practice  of  the  mortgagees'  retaining  the  produce- 
for  their  interest ;  for  it  is  not  improbable,  when, 
knd  is  mortgaged  to  a  small  amount  and  below 
tbe  value  thereof,  that  the  mortgagees  might  be 
the  goiyas  of,  or  allowed  to  cultivate,  the  whole 
Und,  on  payment  of  part  of  the  produce  to  the 


'  Possession''- 
Occupation. 


Possession^ 
Acknowledg- 
ment of  Title. 


Presumption  iu 

favour  of  the 

Heir. 


Payment  of 

produce — 

wliere  produce 

is  to  be  letained 

in  lieu  of 

Interest. 


iraB. 


iDeecls — 
thirty  yeaa'S  old. 


X)emun"er. 


Action  against 

tlie  Executor  of 

an  Aclministra- 

<toi'. 


Evidence  of  a 
Secretai'y. 


"Witness — 
convicted  of 


Eeg.  of  Frands. 

Sale  of 

Immoveable 

property. 


[88] 

plaintiff,  retaimng  a  portion  of  such  ground-sbare 
in  payment  of  the  interest  due  on  their  mortgage.- 
—Ihid. 

362. — CcTtaia  deeds  produced  in  evidence  be- 
ing apparently  upwards  of  thirty  years  old,  were 
held  not  to  reqiuire  proof. — No.  2657,  D.  C.  BaUi- 
caJoa,  (C.) 

June  22,  (N.  R.  C.) 

363. — On  demurrer  each  party  must,  accord- 
ing  to  settled  principle,  stand  or  fall  by  his  own 
pleading.  When  therefore  the  Libel  merely  charg- 
ed the  defendant  as  executor  of  B.,  who  had  in 
his  lifetime  been  the  administrator  of  A.,  ffeld 
that  the  defendant  could  not  be  made  liable  in  the 
action  as  executor  de  bonis  non  administratis  of 
B.*— No.  10753,  D.  C.  Colombo,  N.  (N.) 

June,  29,  (N.  R.) 

36-i. — The  simple  e^'idence  of  the  Secretary  of 
a  Court,  not  upon  oath,  is  hardly  sufficient  to  shut 
a  party  out  of  his  rights.— No.  2479,  D.  C.  Cal- 
tura,  (N.) 

365. — The  admission  of  a  Witness  that  he  has 
committed  perjury,  ought  not  to  be  received,  and 
cannot  be  taken  to  be  evidence  of  such  fact  of 
perjury  committed.  To  prove  a  party  perjured, 
the  record  of  conviction  from  the  Court  in  which 
the  conviction  took  place  is  the  absolutely  necessa- 
ry evidence  ;  and  the  admission  of  the  witness  will 
not  supersede  the  necessity  of  producing  the  re- 
cord or  an  examined  copy  thereof. f — No.  2823, 
D.  C.  Putlam,  (R.) 

36<3. — In  an  action  against  an  Administrator  for 
the  recovery  of  a  certain  garden  in  the  possession, 
of  which  the  plaintiff  had  been  disturbed,  it  was 

•  A.  had  left  a  Will,  and  administration  with  the  -will  an- 
nexed of  his  estate  had  been  granted  to  B.  The  plaintifi  in 
the  above  case  claimed  a  legacy  left  to  him  by  the  mil  of  A. 
fThe  original  case  among  the  records  of  the  District  Court  of 
Colombo,  is  interesting  on  account  of  other  points  respecting 
Prescription  of  Executora  &c.,  discussed  before  the  Court 
below. ) 

+  B.  V.  Castd  Cm-einion,  8  East,  77.— Matthaeus  de  Crimini- 
hm,  Ub.  xlviu.  tit.  16.  p.  277.— Voet.  ad  Pand.  xiii.  ».  It.— 
Vmi  Leeuw.  Cent.  For.  part.  ii.  Ub.  ii.  e.  7.  §  7. 


t89] 


lam 


proved  by  the  ■witnesses  for  the  plaintiff  that  the 
deceased  had  agreed  to  sell  the  garden  to  the  plain- 
tiff for  Rds.  300,  that  the  plaintiff  had  thereupon 
paid  Rds.  61  on  account  of  the  deceased  to  a  person 
with  whom  the  garden  was  then  in  mortgage  for 
that  amount;  that  in  pursuance  of  such  agree- 
ment the  deceased  had  put  the  plaintiff  in  pos- 
session of  the  garden,  and  had  sanctioned  a  sur- 
vey thereof ;  that  he  had  attended  at  such  survey 
and  pointed  out  the  limits  to  the  Surveyor ; 
and  that  on  his  authority,  the  Surveyor  had 
entered  in  the  survey  (which  was  produced  in 
evidence)  that  it  was  a  piece  of  land  "  purchased" 
by  the  plaintiff;  that  a  deed  of  Transfer  (also  pro- 
duced in  evidence)  had  been  prepared  on  stamp 
by  a,  Notary  at  the  request  of  the  plaintiff,  but 
which  transfer  the  deceased  had  never  attended 
to  sign ;  that  after  his  death,  his  widow  (the  de- 
fendant) had  applied  for  administration,  and  had 
acknowledged  to  the  Commissioners  who  attended 
to  inventorise  and  appraise  the  property  of  the 
estate,  that  the  garden  had  been  sold  to  the  plain- 
tiff by  the  deceased ;  and  finally  that  in  the  In- 
ventory and  Account  filed  in  Court  and  sworn  to 
by  her,  she  had  made  no  mention  of  the  garden 
in  question. 

Upon  this  evidence  the  Court  below  had  decid- 
ed that  the  agreement  to  sell  had  been  fully  prov- 
ed, and  that  the  defendant  had  no  right  to  with- 
draw herself  from  the  fulfilment  of  the  contract  on 
the  plea  that  the  stamped  d«ed  had  not  been  fully 
executed. 

On  an  appeal  against  this  decision,  founded  on      Contract  in 
the  Reg.  No.  4  of  1817,  th€  2nd  clause  of  the         '™*™^- 
Reg.  No.  20  of  1824,  a.nd  the  9  &  16th  clauses  of 
ithe  Reg.  NoJ  4  of  1827,  Rough  J.,  after  alluding         Stamp, 
to  a  previous  decision  of  the  Supreme  Court  {supra 
§  101,)  in  which  he  fully  acquiesced,  held  that  there 
was  on  the  whole  sufficient  evidence  to  warrant 
the  decision  of  the  Court  below,  which  was  ac- 
cordingly affirmed.     "  This  transaction  does  not 
indeed,  in  the  way  of  oontract,  begin  with  a  letter 
•written,  addressed  by  the  plaintiff  to  the  defend- 
ant offering  a  sale  ;  but  there  is  a  reduction  into 
Mtitiug  (the  Surveyor  being   taken  to  be  th« 


18S6. 


[90] 


Dismissal, 

set  aaide,  as  a 

nullity. 


Administration 
to  tlie  Widow. 


Intervention. 


Maliommedans. 


agent  of  the  latter  and  signing  by  his  order,)  suffi- 
cient  to  create  a  binding  agreement  between  the 
parties,  particularly  as  possession  followed  upon 
Bnch  agreement.  This  case  cannot  therefore  be 
legally  affected  by  the  Eeg.  No.  4  of  1817,  nor  is 
it  touched  by  the  2nd  clause  of  the  Reg.  No.  20 
of  1824.  The  greatest  obstacle  presenting  itself 
is  that  arising  out  of  the  consideration  of  the 
9th  and  15th  cl.  of  the  Reg.  No.  4  of  1827, 
There  are  however  acts  of  the  plaintiff  in  this 
case  which  sufBcientlv  answer  these  difficulties." 
—No.  8249,  D.  C.  Colombo,  N.  (R.) 

July  6.  (N.  R.) 

3fi7. — An  order  of  dismissal  must  be  consider- 
ed as  a  decree,  and  a  District  Court  therefore  has 
no  power  to  set  it  aside  by  a  subsequent  order, 
which  the  Supreme  Court  accordingly  treated  as 
a  nullity.  But  where  it  appeared  that  the  previ- 
ous order  of  dismissal  was  equally  a  nullity,  as 
not  having  been  made  conformably  to  the  provi- 
sions of  cl.  30  of  the  Charter,  the  Supreme  Court 
Bet  it  aside,  and  directed  the  case  to  be  restored 
to  the  List.— No.  2992,  D.  C.  RuanweHe,  (N.) 

3R8. — It  is  but  reasonable  that  the  Widow's 
natui'al  right  to  administration  of  the  husband's' 
estate  should  not  be  shut  out  in  favour  of  a 
stranger  without  some  definite  and  valid  ground 
of  objection,  assigned  upon  oath ;  especially  where 
she  is  prepared  to  give  the  required  security. 
The  allegation  of  a  Head-moorman  "  that  he 
does  not  consider  her  a  fit  and  proper  person,  &c.," 
(without  any  cause  assigned,)  was  held  to  be  too 
vague  and  general,  and  one  which,  if  admitted, 
might  open  a  door  to  much  imposition  and  fraud. 
—No.  10547,  D.  C.  Colombo,  <S'.  (N.) 

July  13.  (N.  R.) 
369. — It  is  the  result   of  the  evidence  that 
must  shew  whether  or  not  a  party  desiring  to  in- 
tfirvene  has  any  right  to  the  property  in  dispute; 
^No.  1108,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (R.) 

July  20,  (N.  R.) 
370.— In  a  suit  brought  by    a  Mahomraedan 
woman,  the  defendant  had  pleaded  that  the  hviabawj- 


[91] 


1836, 


of  tlie  plaintifi  ought,  in  law,  to  have  been  joined 
as  co-plaintiff ;  but  the  Mahommedan  Assessors  in 
the  Court  below  having  stated,  as  a  matter  of 
Law,  that  the  wife  might  sue  alone,  and  it  ap- 
pearing further  that  the  plaintiff  had,  previous  to 
the  filing  of  the  plea,  been  examined  under  rule 
31  of  the  Rtiles  and  Orders,  touching  a  seques- 
tration obtained  by  her  in  the  case,  the  Supreme 
Court  thought  that  the  plea  of  the  defendant  was 
too  late  and  "  under  all  the  circumstances  of  the 
case  (the  information  tendered,  to  the  Supreme 
Court  tending  also  to  shew  that  the  wife  is  accus- 
tomed and  has  a  right  by  Mahommedan  Law  to  sue 
alone,)  directed  the  Court  below  to  over-rule  the 
plea,  and  to  proceed  to  the  investigation  and  de- 
termination of  the  case  ;  the  plaintiff  being  of 
course  Kable  to  costs  should  she  fail  in  the  proof 
of  the  allegations  in  her  Libel." — No.  8237,  D.  C. 
Kandi/,  (R.) 

Avgmt  3,  (N.  R.  C.) 

371. — If  a  plaintiff  wishes  to  sue  for  increased 
damages,  other  than  those  mentioned  in  his  Libel, 
he  ought  to  amend  his  Libel  accordingly,  and 
cannot  claim  them  in  the  Replication  or  a  subse- 
quent examination. — No.  3697,  D.  C.  Four  Corks, 

372. — Though  the  plaintiff  should  succeed  in 
recovering  some  damages,  yet  if  he  materially  fails 
to  prove  that  his  loss  amounts  to  the  extent  claim- 
ed by  him,  he  should  be  declared  entitled  to  re- 
cover costs  from  the  defendant  only  according  to 
the  class  in  which  damages  may  be  decreed  to 
him  ;  all  the  surplus  costs  occasioned  by  the  case 
having  been  brought  in  a  higher  cliass  being  borne 
by  himself.-^/ 6zdr. 

373. — Where  the  defendant,  in  his  Answer, 
admitted  that  a  sum  of  Rds.  50  had  been  advanc- 
ed to  him  by  the  plaintiff,  and  that  the  plaintiff 
had  refueed  to  receive  it  when  tendered,  owing 
to  his  alleged  claim  for  a  transfer  of  the  land  to 
him  ;  the  plaintiff  having  failed  to  estabUsh  such 
claim  in  the  suit  brought  by  him ;  Held  that  he 
was  still  entitled  to  recover  back,  in  the  same  suit^ 
under  the  prayer  iu  his  Lib«l  "  for  further  re- 


EigWofWife 
tosus. 


Siihsequent 
claim  for 
increased 
damages. 


Jndgment  for 

less  than  tlie 

amount 

claimed. 

Costs. 


Prayer  for 
farther  teUet. 


1836. 


Admistion 
witiibut  Tender. 


CoBts. 


Transfer  of 

cases,  on 

estabUahment 

of  new  Courts. 


Transfer  of  s 

ease  instituted 

in  a  wrong 

Court. 


[92  1 

lief,"  the  sum  advanced  by  him  to  the  defendant^ 
delivering  back  to  the  defendant  the  title-deed 
which  had  been  deposited  with  him;  and  each  party 
paying  his  own  costs,  (the  defendant  having  omit- 
ted to  pay  the  sum  into  Court,  or  to  tender  it 
with  his  Answer.)— No.  3100,  D.  C.  Chilaw,  (C.) 

.17. 


Petition  in 

ftyrvta  pauperis. 

Fresh 

Seference. 


Trespass. 

Joint  and 

several  liability 

ef  Defendants. 


374. — On  the  motion  of  the  plaintiff,  it  was  or- 
dered that  a  case  which  had  been  instituted  and 
decided  before  the  late  Supreme  Court,  should 
be  transferred  to  the  District  Court  of  Jaffna,  to 
enable  the  plaintiff  to  sue  execution  against  the 
defendant  in  satisfaction  of  the  judgment. — No- 
6509,  (N.) 

875. — Where  a  case,  which  ought  to  have  been 
instituted  in  the  Districit  Court  of  Negombo,  had 
by  mistake  been  instituted  in  the  District  Court 
of  Colombo,  South,  the  Supreme  Court  on  the  mo- 
tion  of  the  plaintiff  ordered  it  to  be  transferred 
from  the  latter  Court  to  the  former. — No.  10585, 
D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (N.) 

Aug.  18. 
376. — "VMiere  an  application  to  BVieinforTnapau- 
perii  has  been  rejected  on  the  report  given  by  the 
proctor  to  whom  it  was  referred,  the  District  Judge 
is  at  liberty,  in  the  exercise  of  his  discretion,  to 
refer  the  enquiry  if  he  sees  fit  de  novo  to  another 
Proctor.— Pci.  of  S.  E.  H.  Maartensz,  (N.) 

Aug.  24,  (N.  R.  C.) 
377. — In  an  action  for  the  value  of  certaiit 
paddy  forcibly  taken  possession  of  by  the  defend- 
ants, it  appearing  that  the  object  of  both  the  de- 
fendants had  been  to  carry  off  the  paddy,  in  which 
they  succeeded;  ZTe^t? that  the  differentmeanstaken 
by  each  to  accomplish  this  one  object  could  not 
affect  their  joint  and  several  responsibility  to  the 
plaintiff  for  the  loss  and  injury  they  had  both  oc- 
casioned him,  (though  but  for  the  assistance  of 
one  of  them,  who  was  a  Headman,  their  object 
might  probably  have  been  defeated ;)  and  they 
were  accordingly  both  condemned  to  pay  the 
amount  of  damages  sustained  by  the  plaintift— ►. 
No.  1784,  D.  0.  Caltwa,  (N.) 


C93] 

378. — In  an  action  for  Defamation,  where  mere- 
ly nominal  damages  had  been  given,  and  the  de- 
fendants further  decreed  to  pay  costs,  the  Su- 
preme Court  was,  under  all  the  circumstances, 
strongly  inclined  to  consider  the  costs  as  given  in 
the  original  class  ;  but  the  defendant  having  ex- 
pressly stated  in  his  petition  of  Appeal  that  costs 
had  been  given  in  the  original  class,  it  was  held 
that  all  difficiilty  in  this  respect  had  been  removed, 
and  that  the  defendant  had  thereby  precluded 
himself  from  taking  the  objection. — No.  2149, 
D.  C.  Caltura,  (C.) 

379. — The  District  Court  should  not  encourage 
cases  of  Slander  or  Defamation,  more  especially 
their  being  instituted  in  a  high  class  ;  but  where 
any  such  action  appears  to  have  been  properly  in- 
stituted, and  the  words  are  alleged  to  have  been 
spoken  with  an  intention  of  injuring  the  plaintiff's 
reputation,  the  Supreme  Court  would  be  cautious 
in  dismissing  the  suit  on  account  of  a  variance  be- 
tween the  expressions  set  out  in  the  Libel  and 
those  deposed  to  by  the  witnesses,  if  the  malicious 
or  defamatory  words  alleged  in  the  Libel  are 
proved  to  have  been  used  by  the  defendant. — Ibid. 

380. — Where  a  Proctor  has  been  wanting  in 
due  skill  or  care  in  the  management  of  a  suit,  he 
IS  liable  to  his  client  for  any  damages  arising  from 
it,  provided  he  can  clearly  prove  such  neglect. — 
No.  3001,  D.  C.  Ruanwelle,  (0.) 

381. — Where  two  defendants  have  put  in  sepa- 
rate Answers,  one  cannot  be  prejudiced  by  state- 
ments made  by  the  other. — No.  9548,  D.  C.  Co- 
lombo, S.  (C.) 

382. — One  of  the  attesting  witnesses  is  suffi- 
cient to  prove  a  deed. — Ibid. 

383. — Where  the  plaintiff  had  by  his  Libel 
claimed  a  half  of  certain  lands,  which  was  more 
than  he  was  legally  entitled  to,  and  there  had  also 
been  some  delay  in  the  institution  of  the  suit,  and 
it  appeared  that  the  defendant  had  not  only  been 
some  years  in  quiet  possession  of  the  property 
claimed,  but  was  considered  by  the  District  Court 
to  have  made  out  an.  equitable  title  to  the  same, 


1836. 


Action  for 
Uei'aiuatioa, 


Variance  in 

resjjeot  of  th* 

expressions 

nsed. 


Proctor- 
liable  for 
Neglect  ifec. 


Answers  of 
Defendants. 


Proof  of  Deed, 


Division  of 
Costs. 


18S5. 


[94] 


Division  of 

Costs. 


Purchase,  in 
ignoTance  of  a 
Sequestration. 


Administration 

to  Widow 

Proof  of 

Mairiaize  &c. 


Administration- 
Parties 
dying  abroad. 


Date  of  Deed- 
Delivery. 


the  Supreme  Court  in  decreeing  one-fourth  of  the 
land  to  the  plaintiff,  refused  to  allow  him  his  costs 
against  the  defendant,  but  decreed  that  each  party 
should  bear  his  own  costs. — No.  784,  D.  C.  Rat- 
napoora,  (0.) 

384. — The  Supreme  Court  affirmed  a  decree 
dismissing  the  plaintiff's  suit  against  the  Govern- 
ment, but  directed  that  each  party  should  bear  his 
own  costs ;  there  being  no  legal  proof  of  the  plain- 
tiff having  taken  the  assignment  under  which  he 
claimed,  with  a  knowledge  of  a  sequestration  which 
was  then  pending  on  the  property  assigned.  Tlie 
witnesses  only  spoke  to  the  plaintiff's  presumed  or 
probable  knowledge  thereof  from  the  fact  of  the 
sequestration  occurring  and  being  publicly  known 
in  his  village  at  the  time  it  was  issued,  and  from 
his  being  related  to  the  party  who  had  made  the 
assignment,  while  the  possession  of  both  the  land 
and  the  title-deeds  being  allowed  to  be  retained  by 
the  former  possessor  after  the  sequestration,  was 
both  irregular  and  highly  calculated  to  mislead  really 
innocent  parties  as  to  the  existing  title  to  the  pro- 
perty in  dispute. — No.  2697,  D.  C.  Batticaloa; 
(C.) 

385. — In  a  case  of  opposition  to  an  application 
for  Administration,  the  Supreme  Court  referred 
the  case  back  to  the  District  Court  to  call  for  proof 
fromlhe  opponent  (the  alleged  widow)  of  her  mar- 
riage with  the  deceased  and  also  of  there  being 
a  son  bv  that  marriage  borne  to  the  deceased,  and 
still  living.— No.  3835,  D.  C.  Trincomalie,  (C.) 

September  7,  (N.  R.  C.) 
386. — The  Supreme  Court,  on  full  considera- 
tion of  the  24,  2n,  27,  2;)th  and  other  clauses 
of  the  Charter,  was  of  opinion  that  the  District, 
Courts  had  power  to  grant  administration  to  the 
estates  of  persons  leaving  property  in  ,Ceylon,  al- 
though such  persons  may  have  died  abroad. — No. 
13732,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (N.) 

387. — The  date  of  a  deed  is  of  itself  quite  im- 
material to  its  validity.  The  important  part  is 
the  delivery,  and  the  object  of  the  Notarial  attes-, 
tation  is  to  vouch  such  delivery. — No.  1863,  D* 
Q.  Matura,  (N.) 


195] 


IRSB. 


Appraisement 
oi*  a  Xemwle. 


888. — NoERis  C.  J.,  in  the  course  of  deHverin<j    A  Judge  prevl- 
«  iiidffment  in  review,  on  an  appeal  to  the  Kini^    ""f  ^  engaged 
m  Frivy  Council,  said—    Mr.  t/usfice  Carr  has,        the  cause. 
with  proper  professional  delicacy,  declined  to  give 
any  opinion  in  the  case,  having  been  engaged  as 
Advocate  for  one  of  the  parties." — No.  646,  D.  C. 
Kandij,  (N.) 

389. — On  an  appeal  to  the  King  in  Privy  Coun- 
cil, it  was  held  in  review  that  an  Appellant  (both 
parties  being  Buddhist  Priests,  and  the  suit  relat- 
ing to  the  right  to  a  certain  Temple  and  the  lands 
appertaining  to  it,)  had  an  unquestionable  right  (if 
he  could  get  over  his  own  religious  scruples,)  to 
insist  on  a  fair  valuation  of  the  temple  aiid  its  ap- 
pendages as  mere  mate-rial  property,  without  re- 
ference to  its  sacred  charaete^r;  although,  if  the 
lands  alone  were  found  to  be  of  sufficient  appeal- 
able value,  it  would  certainly  be  desirable  to  avoid 
shocking  the  prejudices  of  the  people  by  a  need- 
less valuation  of  the  Temple. — Ibid.    (.\.) 

390.- — On  argument  in  appeal,  an  objection  was  Stat,  of  Frauds 
taken  to  the  title  of  the  plaintiff,  which  it  w&a 
affirmed  was  invalid  inasmuch  as  "it  was  by  a  be- 
quest made  verbally  after  the  Proclamation  of  the 
28.  October  1820,  by  which  the  Statute  of  Frauds 
and  Peijuries  was  briefly  introduced  and  intended 
to  operate  in  the  Kandian  Provinces.  Rough  J. 
said  that  having  referred  to  the  whole  proceed- 
int^s  in  the  case,  to  the  entire  omission  of  any  and 
all  reference  to  such  Proclamation  in  the  Dis- 
trict Court,  the  suit  having  been  there  commenc- 
ed, conducted,  and  concluded  on  grounds  wholly 
independant  of  any  State-enactment,  he  certainly 
considered  that  the  objection  had  been  taken  too 
late  ;  and  on  Review,  upon  an  Appeal  to  the  King 
in  Privy  Council,  he  was  of  that  opinion  still. — 
Hid.    (R.) 

Sept.  14. 

391.^— A  deed  was  held  to  be  void  as  not  hav- 
ing been  properly  stamped  under  the  provisions 
of  the  Reg.  No.  2  of  1817.— No.  2734,  D.  C. 
£atHcal0a,  (C.) 


Objection  not 
taken  in  the 
Court  helow. 


Stamp- 
Want  of. 


1836. 


1:96] 


Suspicions 

agninst 

Plaintiff's  title. 


Bight  of  a 

divorced  Wife 

or  tlcRtitute 

Widow 
to  supjjort. 


Admissions, 

as  Witness 

in  a  former 

action. 


Omission 

sf  the  names  ot 

Assessors. 


Trial,  pending 

»n  Inter!ocutoi7 

Appeal. 


Administration 

iiefased  to  the 

Widow. 


-392. — "  The  reluctance  of  tlie  plaintiff  to  pro- 
duce his  deed,  and  the  appearance  of  erasure  and 
alteration  thereon,  together  with  the  plaintiff  hav- 
in^  made  all  the  defendants  parties  to  the  case, 
with  the  obvious  view  of  depriving  the  first  and 
second  of  their  testimony,  throws  the  very  great- 
est suspicion  of  the  plaintiff's  really  possessing  any 
equitable  claim  to  the  land  in  dispute  and  on  the 
deed  being  genuine." — Ihid. 

393. — If  a  woman  has  become  divorced  from 
her  husband,  or  is  a  widow  destitute  of  the  means 
of  support,  she  would  have  a  right  to  return  to 
the  house  of  her  parents,  and  there  to  have  lodg- 
ing, support,  and  clothing  from  her  parents'  estate ; 
but  when  she  fails  to  produce  evidence  to  this 
effect,  she  will  have  no  such  claim. — No.  7901, 
D.  C.  Kandy,  (0.) 

394. — Where  the  owner  of  property,  when  ex- 
amined as  a  witness  in  an  action  between  other 
parties,  has  affirmed  or  disaffirmed  a  sale  by  him- 
self, the  verdict  would  not  be  evidence  either  for 
him  or  against  him  in  any  future  action.* — No. 
7390,  D.  C.  Kandy,  (C.) 

395. — The  Supreme  Court  affirmed  an  order  of 
the  Court  below,  although  the  names  of  the  As- 
sessors had  not  been  inserted  in  the  proceeding  on 
such  order. — Ihid. 

396. — Where  pending  an  Appeal  on  an  interlo- 
cutory order,  the  case  was  to  come  on  for  trial  on 
the  next  day  in  the  Court  below,  the  Supreme 
Court,  on  the  motion  of  the  plaintiff  and  respon- 
dent, ordered  it  to  be  returned  back  to  the  Dis- 
trict Court  for  the  purpose  of  being  heard  on  the 
other  points,  reserving  the  point  in  appeal  fov  ar- 
gument before  the  Supreme  Court. — ^No.  4919, 
D.  C.  Colombo,  N.  (C.) 

Sep.  21. 

397.— -In  a  contested  application  for  Adminis- 
tration, it  was  held  that  under  ordinary  circum- 
stances where  no  objection  appeared,  the  election 
of  the  Judge  would,  according  to  modern  prao- 


Nix  V.  CuUing,  4  Taunt.  18. 


[97] 


18S8. 


tice,  be  in  favor  of  the  widow ;  but  considering 
that  it  was  entirely  at  the  discretion  of  the  Judge 
to  grant  administration  to  the  widow  or  to  thfe 
next  of  kin,  as  he  thought  right,  and  as  there  were 
very  strong  circumstances  of  suspicion*  proved 
against  the  alleged  widow  in  regai'd  to  her  havilig 
been  concerned  in  procuring  a  false  registry  of 
marriage  to  be  entered  in  the  Thombo,  the  Su- 
preme (  ourt  felt  bound  to  order  Letters  of  Ad" 
ministration  to  be  granted  to  the  next  of  kin  with- 
out prejudice  however  to  any  suit  that  such  al- 
leged widow  might  thereafter  institute  to  establish 
lier  marriage  and  her  claims  as  widow  to  a  por* 
tion  of  the  intestate's  property. 

*  These  suspicions  were  based  on  certain  crimi- 
nal proceedings  had  before  the  King^s  Advocate 
and  on  his  observations  thereon ;  and  per  Care 
J. — "  Thongh  this  Court  wiD  not  make  any  de- 
cision upon  the  evidence  thus  taken,  which  might 
operate  as  a  bar  to  a  suit  hereafter  to  establish 
the  alleged  marriage  and  the  rights  accruing  there- 
upon, yet  it  may  very  property  refer  to  the  above 
criminal  case  in  determining  whether  Letters  of 
Administration  ought  to  be  granted  to  the  alleged 
widow  in  preference  to  the  next  of  kin  who  hav6 
an  equal  right  thereto." — No.  54,  D.  C.  Caltv,ra, 
(C.) 

398. — An  objection  having  been  taken  in  the 
Court  below  against  the  admissibility  of  an  instru- 
ment, on  the  ground  that  it  was  not  properly 
stamped,  (Eeg.  No.  7  of  1823,  cl.  3,  4,  5,  13  and 
14,)  and  had  not  been  passed  before  a  Notary  and 
two  witnesses,  <Reg.  No.  20  of  1824 ;)  the  ques- 
tion came  in  appeal  before  the  Supreme  Court. 
The  instrument  in  question  purported  to  be  a 
"  Marriage-contract,"  and  after  reciting  that  the 
plaintiff  had  solicited  in  Biarriage  the  daughter  of 
the  defendant,  to  which  the  defendant  had  con- 
sented, contained  an  agreement  on  the  part  of  the 
defendant  "  to  give  in  dowry  to  the  plaintiff,  two 
months  after  such  marriage,  besides  the  paternal 
share  of  the  daughter,  certain  jewels  and  one -third 
part  of  a  certain  house  and  garden ;  and  that  as 
the  father  of  the  plaintiff  had  agreed  to  pay  Rds. 
400,  being  the  value  of  the  remaining  two-thirds 


Frftude  and 
Peljuries. 


Mairiaga- 
Contract. 


1836. 


I 


Su  Judicata, 


Pauper — 

Proctor's 

Beport — 

Objections  to. 


of  the  said  house,  she  the  defendant  had  consented 
that  the  plaintiff  should  take  possession  of  the 
whole  house."  The  Supreme  Court  considered 
that  this  agreement  was  admissible  in  evidence,  as 
teing  properly  stamped  (with  a  stamp  of  Eds.  2,) 
according  to  el.  13  of  the  Eeg.  No.  7  of  1823, 
and  that  the  other  clauses  referred  to  of  the  above 
Eeg.  were  not  appheable  to  an  Agreement  of  this 
description  ;  nor  could  it  fall  properly  within  the 
provisions  of  cl.  2  of  Reg.  No.  20  of  1824  ;  and 
^er  Carr  J. — "  It  is  not  a  deed,  for  it  is  not  under 
teal :  neither  has  the  writing  any  of  the  usual 
formahties  of  a  conveyance  or  formal  instrument ; 
hut  it  must  be  considered  as  a  Memorandum  c^ 
Agreement  or  Contract  for  the  proposed  marriage- 
settlement,  to  be  carried  into  effect,  binding  on  the 
parties  upon  the  solemnization  of  the  marriage." 
—No.  4919,  D.  C.  Colomho,  N.  (C) 

Sept.  28. 

399. — A  defendant  having  pleaded  in  bar  to  a 
suit  the  decree  in  a  former  case,  which  appeared 
from  the  plaintiff's  Libel  and  RepUcation  to  have 
been  instituted  for  the  recovery  of  the  same  land, 
Buch  plea  was  held  a  sufficient  bar  to  the  subse- 
quent claim  of  the  plaintilff. — No.  1809,  D.  0. 
Caitwa,  (C.) 

400. — Where  an  application  to  defend  in  forma 
pauperii  had  been  rejected  by  the  District  Court 
upon  the  report  of  a  Proctor  to  whom  it  had  been 
referred,  that  there  existed  no  good  grounds  of 
defence,  the  Supreme  Court  refused  to  order  the 
Petition  to  be  referred  to  another  Proctor  upon  a 
mere  vague  and  general  assertion  in  the  Petition 
of  Appeal  that  the  Proctor  to  whom  it  had  origi- 
nally been  referred,  had  reported  against  it  wiQi- 
out  making  proper  enquiries;  and  held  that  it 
was  clearly  the  duty  of  the  party  to  have  stated 
fully  his  objections  to  the  Report  before  the 
District  Court,  which  upon  satisfactory  proof 
of  any  neglect  by  such  Proctor  in  the  per- 
formance of  his  duty,  would  have  taken  the  pro- 
per steps  to  correct  it ;  and  as  no  such  previous 
objection  or  proof  appeared  to  have  been  offered 
to  the  District  Court,  the  Supreme  Court  refused 


[99] 


18S6. 


to  make  any  reference  back  on  the  Petition,  but 
'dismissed  the  appeal  taken  by  the  Petitioner. — 
No.  1127,  D.  C.  Wadimoratchy,  (C.) 

401. — A  plaintiff  is  entitled  in  pleading  to  lay 
his  claim  or  right  of  action  in  different  ways  or 
counts,  so  that  on  the.  failure  of  the  proof  in  sup- 
port of  one,  he  has  a  right  to  proceed  into  evi- 
dence to  maintain  his  other  title.  It  had  been 
previously  held  by  the  Supreme  Court  that  a  de- 
fendant is  entitled  under  the  wording  of  cl.  2  of 
the  Ordinance  No.  2  of  1834,  to  give  evidence  of 
liis  prescriptive  title  by  undisturbed  possession  for 
10  years,  where  such  possession  had  been  set  out 
in  the  Answer  or  been  put  in  issue  by  the  plead- 
ings, though  the  said  clause  was  not  speciaUy 
pleaded  in  bar  under  rule  6,  sec.  i.  of  the  Rules 
ayid  Orders.  A  plaintiff  therefore  who  had  not  in 
the  pleadings  confined  her  claim  or  title  expressly 
to  or  under  a  deed,  but  on  the  contrary  had 
alleged  in  the  Eeplication  that  she  had  possess- 
ed the  lands  for  upwards  of  10  years,  and  that 
the  possession  of  the  defendant  was  with  her  per- 
mission, and  that  he  had  never  claimed  a  proprie- 
tary right  or  title  adverse  to  and  independant  of 
her  title,  was  held  entitled  to  go  into  evidence  in 
support  of  such  prescriptive  title. — No.  7519,  D.. 
C.  Kandy,  (0.) 

402. — By  the  Civil  Law  a  surety,  on  the  pay- 
ment of  the  principal  debt,  has  the  privilege  to  de- 
mand from  the  creditor  Cession  of  Action  not  only 
against  the  principal  debtor,  but  also  against  all 
other  persons  that  are  liable  ;*  and  there  is  no 
law  more  generally  and  clearly  defined  than  the 
equity  or  right  of  a  surety  thus  to  enforce  every 
security  and  aU  means  of  payment  which  the 
creditor  had.f  and  to  have  any  fund  in  Court, 
which  is  charged  with  the  principal  debt,  applied 
for  his  exoneration  or  indemnification.t — No. 
6499,  D.  C.  Colombo,  JSF.  (C.) 


Several 
Counts- 
Prescription, 
how  pleaded. 


•  V.  d.  Linden,  Inat.  312. — ^Van  ieeu-w.  Gomm.  331. 

+  Craythome  v.  Sivinbume,  14  Ves.  162. 

t  Parsons  v.  Briddock,  3  Ves.  608. — Wright  v.  JUorUy^  li 


Yes.  13. — Haniion  y.  OUitop,  Coo^.  61, 


I8S8. 


[  too  J 


Ex  parte  Hear- 
ing, on  absence 
of  defendant. 


Neceesary 
Fostponement. 


Objection  to 
Witness. 


Degree. 

Powers  of 

District  Courts, 


liandlord  and 
Tenant. 


Bjectment. 


October  12. 

The  Hon'ble  William  Rough,  Serjeant  at  Law, 
•was  sworn  in  as  Chief  Justice. 

The  Hon'ble  John  Fhbdriok  Stoddaet,  Esquire, 
was  sworn  in  as  Second  Puisne  Justice  and  as 
Acting  Senior  Puisne  Justice. 

The  Hon'ble  William  Ogle  Care,  Esqvure, 
was  sworn  in  as  Acting  Second  Puisne  Justice. 

4;03. — If  a  District  Court  has,  in  consequence 
of  the  defendant's  absence  on  the  day  of  trial, 
proceeded  to  hear  the  case  ex  parte,  the  Supreme 
Court  wi&  not  alter  its  decision  ;,  but  where  the 
the  District  Court  is  unable  to  proceed  into  and 
decid*  the  case  on  the  day  of  trial,  and  is  accord- 
ingly obliged  to  postpone  it,  the  defendant  is  en- 
titled to  lie  benefit  of  that  necessary  postpone- 
ment, and  to  adduce  evidence  on  the  day  to  which 
it  has  been  so  postponed. — No.  3545,  D.  C. 
Four  Carles,  (C.) 

Oct.  26,  (E.  St.  C.) 

404r. — Where  it  appeared  that  no-  ohjection  had 
been  made  in  the  Court  below  to  the  witnesses  for. 
the  plaintiff  on  the  ground  of  their  being  partner* 
with  him,  and  that  no  evidence  had  been  offered 
before  the  District  Judge  of  such  fact,  the  Supreme 
Court,  on  appeal,  refused  to  entertain  the  objec- 
tion, and  affirmed  the  decree  appealed  against. — 
No.  1114:,  D.  0.  Amblangodde,  (R.) 

405.  — A  District  Court  cannot  make  good  or 
confirm  a  decree  of  the  Supreme  Court.  The 
lower  Court  cannot  affirm  or  interfere  with  the 
adjrudication  of  the  higher  ;  it  cannot  even  change 
the  decree  of  a  co-equal  Court  unappealed  from. 
—No.  1584,  D.  C.  Seven  Corks,  (R.> 

406. — The  JVi7?e-proprietor  may  assert  his  right 
to  cultivate  the  land  on  payment  of  the  usual  fees 
and  performance  of  the  accustomed  services ;  and 
the  owner  has  no  right  to  eject  any  such  tenant 
but  on  clear  proof  of  his  not  pajring  such  fees  or 
not  performing  the  usual  services.  And  a  Court 
of  Equity  will  generally  relieve  against  a  forfei- 
ture for  non-performance  of  a,  condition  or  cove- 


[101] 


1S36. 


nant  of  a  Lessee,  where   compensation    can  be 
Made.* 

As  to  the  custom  of  a  succeeding  or  incoming 
tenant  being  entitled  to  the  crop  on  the  land 
when  he  takes  possession,  and  the  argument  there- 
from  that  a  party  who  had  been  ejected  from  th& 
land  previous  to  the  expiration  of  his  term,  could 
have  sustained  no  hardship  thereby  as  he  must 
have  himself  in  like  manner  enjoyed  the  produce 
of  the  crop  of  the  preceding  tenant ;  Seld  that 
Siuch  custom  obviously  applies  only  to  those  cases. 
where  the  last  tenant  has  occupied  the  land  for 
the  fuU  period  of  his  term,  viz.  one  year,  accord- 
ing to  the  accustomed  tenure. — No.  794,  D.  C. 
Ralnapoora,  (C.) 

407. — A  verbal  bequest  is  void  as  to  lands,  and 
also  as  to  goods,  unless  accompanied  by  a  deUvery 
of  such  goods  according  to  the  Proclamation  of 
the  2Sth  Oct.  1820.— No.  971,  D.  C.  Seven  Corles, 
(C.) 

408. — By  the  Kandian  Law,  Nephews  and 
Nieces  of  the  whole  blood  succeed  before  Nephews 
and  Nieces,  as  well  as  Brothers  even,  of  the  half 
blood.f — Ihid. 

Oct.  29,  (E.  St.  C.) 

409. — A  defendant  who  was  sued  for  Me  share 
of  the  rent  o£  a  garden  held  by  him  in  partner- 
ship with  the  plaintiff,  having  altogether  denied 
both  the  renting  and  the  plaintiff's  request  to  pay 
the  amount  in  question,  (which  were  proved,)  was 
held  not  entitled  to  enter  into  evidence  to  prove 
payment  of  the  amount  claimed  by  the  plaintiff. — 
No.  3331,  D.  C.  Tri.ncoma.lie,  (C.) 

410. — In  an  action  for  the  recovery  of  certain 
silver  articles  pawned  by  the  plaintiff  with  the 
defendant,  the  Court,  on  examination  of  the  plain- 
tiff, finding  that  the  plaintiff  had  failed  to  secure 
himself  either  by  a  written  instrument  or  by  get- 
ting the  Police  to  witness  the  transaction,  (as  re- 
quired by  cl.  21  of  the  Ord.  No.  3  of  1834),  dis- 


Eights  of  in- 
coming Tenant. 
Custom. 


Verljal  Bequest. 


Kandian  Law. 
Succession  of 
Nephews,  ifee. 


Pleading — 
Proof  of 
Payment. 


Pawn — 

Action  t» 
recover. 


Compliance 
with  Police 
Ordinance. 


•  12.  Ves.  475. 

+  Sawyer's  Digest,  p.  37. 


1S36. 


C  102  ] 


Several  claims 

in  the  same 

suit. 


Prayer  for 
'  further  relief.' 


Costs. 


Action  against 

a  MaiTied 

"Woman. 


Divorce. 


missed  the  plaintiff's  action.  The  plaintiff  having 
appealed  against  this  judgment  on  the  ground  1, 
that  the  articles  had  been  pledged  openly  and  in 
the  presence  of  several  people,  and  2,  that  the 
defendant  had  subsequently  promised  to  return 
the  articles,  the  judgment  was  affirmed  ;  but  Held 
that  had  it  appeared  from  the  pleadings  that  proof 
would  be  given  as  to  the  fact  in  the  petition  of 
appeal,  of  an  acknowledgment  on  the  part  of  the 
defendant  of  articles  received,  there  might  have 
been  ground  for  referring  the  case  back  ;  as  such 
an  acknowledgment  would  probably  be  held  to  take 
the  case  out  of  the  Ordinance  referred  to. — No. 
12169,  D.  C.  Colombo,  N.  (E.) 

411.' — Where  the  plaintiff  by  his  Libel  claimed 
certain  lands  and  also  certain  expenses  incurred 
by  him  for  payment  of  debts  &c.,  the  Supreme 
Court,  on  the  evidence  adduced  in  the  case,  dis- 
missed the  plaintiff's  claim  to  the  land  in  dispute, 
but  remanded  the  case  for  further  evidence  as  to 
the  other  claims ;  a,ndper  Oarr  J., — "  The  plain- 
tiff, under  the  allegation  in  his  Libel  of  expenses 
incurred,  and  the  concluding  prayer  therein  for 
other  or  further  relief,  was  entitled  in  this  suit  to 
recover  compensation  for  any  such  loss  or  expen- 
ses which  he  proved  ;  and  as  he  sues  as  a  pauper, 
it  is  for  the  advantage  also  of  the  defendant  that 
another  suit  should  not  be  now  instituted  for  the 
above  purpose.  The  case  is  accordingly  referred 
back  to  the  District  Court  to  take  further  evi- 
dence as  to  and  decide  upon  such  claims  of  the 
plaintiff  for  compensation  as  aforesaid,  and  it  is 
ordered  that  the  defendant  do  Tpayfitture  costs  only 
in  the  class  of  the  damages,  if  any,  decreed." — 
No.  3609,  D.  C.  Four  Carles,  <C.) 

412. — 'VMiere  in  the  description  of  the  defend- 
ant in  the  commencement  of  the  instrument  sued 
upon,  as  well  as  in  the  Libel  of  the  plaintiff,  the 
defendant  was  stated  to  be  the  wife  of  B ;  3eld 
that  the  plaintiff  was  thereby  precluded  from  al- 
leging in  appeal  that  the  defendant  had  been  di- 
vorced;  and  the  Bond  being  executed  by  her  as  a 
married  woman  without  her  husband's  consent,  wa» 
held  to  be  void.— No.  3676,  D.  C.  Trincomalie,  (0.) 


tlOS] 


1836. 


413. — In  an  action  wherein  the  plaintiff  claim- 
ed under  a  Fiscal's  Sale  and  Certificate,  it  was 
lield  that  the  Piacars  Certificate  could  possibly 
form  no  bar  to  the  claims  of  other  parties,  merely 
because  they  had  not  contested  it  previously  to 
the  suit ;  and  that  where  the  plaintiff  had  a  previ- 
ous interest  in  and  knowledge  of  the  land  in  dis- 
pute, and  consequently  of  the  real  claims  of  all  the 
parties  interested  therein,  or  had  a  title  thereto, 
he  could  have  no  possible  reason  to  allege  any  pe- 
culiar hardship  in  his  case  from  ignorance  of  other 
claims  existing.— No.  266,  D.  C.  Tangalle,  (C.) 

November  2,  (R.  St.  C.) 

414. — A  Mortgage  being  of  prior  date  to  a 
judgment,  the  holder  of  the  mortgage  was  held 
to  be  entitled  to  a  priority  of  payment,  and  the 
property  first  liable  to  discharge  such  mortgage,  on 
the  money  due  thereon  being  proved  to  have  been 
really  advanced  and  the  mortgage-bond  shewn  to 
have  been  duly  executed. — No.  2437,  D.  C.  Guile, 
(C.) 

Nov.  9,  (St.  C.) 

415. — The  Supreme  Court  considered  that  it 
was  always  better  to  confirm  the  decree  of  a  Court 
wHch  has  had  the  opportunity  of  examining  the 
witnesses  and  judging  from  their  demeanour  who 
■were  most  deserving  of  credit. — No.  1761,  D.  C. 
Seven  Carles,  (C.) 

416. — The  circumstance  of  a  party  having 
taken  a  note  or  chit  on  a  shroff  for  a  sum  of  mo- 
ney, cannot  by  itself  be  considered  as  payment ; 
and  further  proof  of  whether  the  full  or  any  and 
what  amount  was  paid  thereunder  is  required. — 
No.  593,  D.  C.  Manaar,  (C.) 

417. — A  Bond  not  being  executed  before  a  No- 
tary is  no  objection  to  its  validity  as  a  personal 
security  from  the  debtor,  though  such  a  Bond 
cannot  pass  any  interest  in  or  ojierate  as  an  in- 
cumbrance on  land. — Ibid. 

Nov.  12,  (R.  St.  C.) 

.    418. — Where  the  Court  below  had  expressed 
its  opinion  that  the  plaintiff's  witnesses  were  con- 


Priority  of 

:e  over  a 
Judgment, 


Appeal  against 

a  Decree 

founded  on 

evideuce. 


Note  on  a 

Shrofi— 

not  conclusive 

proof  of 

payment. 


Personal 
Bond- 
not  passed  be- 
fore a  Notary. 


Judgment  upon 
Evidence — 


1886. 


[104  J 


upheld  by  S.  C. 


Sale  of  more 

than  Vendor  i3 

•utitled  to. 


Rights  of 
Heir — pending 
Administration. 


Res  judicata. 

Dismissal 

After  evidence 

heai'd. 


tradictory  and  little  entitled  to  credit,  and  had 
thereupon  dismissed  the  claim  as  unproved,  the 
Supreme  Court  on  appeal  refused  to  reverse  the 
decree.— No.  2936,  D.  0.  Chilaw,  (R.) 

419. — Where  a  party  had  by  deed  conveyed  to 
the  plaintiff  certain  lands  which  it  appeared  did 
not  belong  soleli/  to  him,  but  to  the  estate  of  the 
defendant's  testator  of  whom  he  was  an  heir  to  the 
extent  of  one-tenth  ;  Held  that  the  District  Court 
should  not,  in  a  suit  for  such  lands  between  the 
plaintiff  and  the  defendant,  have  decreed  the  deed 
to  be  cancelled  (as  in  cases  of  deeds  appearing 
clearly  void  from  forgery  or  fraud  ;)  for  even  pre- 
suming that  the  vendor  could  not  thereby  convey 
any  interest  whatever  in  the  lands  in  dispute,  the 
deed  would  still  be  important  evidence  for  the 
plaintiff  in  an  action  to  recover  back  the  purchase 
money.  But  further,  it  was  held  that  the  deed,  if 
duly  proved,  might  be  considered  as  effective  to 
entitle  the  plaintiff  thereunder  to  recover  any 
interest  not  exceeding  one  tenth  of  the  land  which 
the  vendor  might  thereafter  be  entitled  to  acquire 
possession  of,  (he  being  admitted  to  be  an  heir  to 
that  extent,  and  having  therefore  before  the  exe- 
cutor's assent  an  inchoate  right  thereto  after  the 
testator's  death,  which  was  transmissible  to  his 
representatives  and  assignable  in  equity,  such  as- 
signment being  subject,  of  course,  to  the  defen- 
dant's right  thereto  as  administrator  and  the 
debts  of  the  deceased.)  The  ease  was  therefore 
referred  back  as  to  this  point,  in  order  that  the 
plaintiff  might  make  the  vendor  a  defendant  to  the 
suit,  and  that  upon  his  admission  of  the  deed  or 
upon  due  proof  thereof,  the  District  Court  might 
reconsider  and  decide  such  latter  part  of  the  case 
accordingly.— No.  2689,  D.  0.  Galle,  (C.) 

420. — WTiere  it  appeared  that  in  a  former  case 
the  claim  of  the  plaintiff  had  been  dismissed,  he 
ha\'ing  gone  into  evidence,  but  not  having  proved 
his  claim,  as  laid,  and  no  appeal  having  been 
sought  or  had  ;  ITeld  that  a  subsequent  suit  be- 
tween the  same  parties  in  respect  of  the  same  sub- 
ject-matter, had  been  properly  dismissed  ;  and  per 
Rough  C.  J.,—"  The  Court  does  not  deem  it  ne- 


tl05l 

cessary  to  say  tliat  in  no  case  whatever,  nor  un- 
der any  circumstanceB  ■would  a  case  though  dis- 
missed and  the  costs  of  the  suit  paid,  be  again  suf* 
fered  to  be  brought  forward  to  be  supported  as  A 
new  suit  by  new  proof ;  but  there  is  nothing  in  the 
present  case  to  justify  such  a  departure  from  the 
general  rule."— No.  3263,  D.  0.  Batticaloa,  (R.) 

421. — Nothing  can  justify  the  rejection  of  a 
witness  as  incompetent  on  the  ground  of  perjury 
save  the  actual  conviction  produced  and  filed. — 
No.  1111,  D.  C.  Tmmoraichy,  (R.) 

422. — There  is  a  difference  between  the  Engllsk 
and  the  Dutch  Civil  Laws  in  regard  to  Preference 
of  Judgments.  By  the  latter  law,  when  goods  are 
exposed  for  sale  under  execution  on  judgment  ob- 
tained by  a  creditor,  other  creditors  may  come  in 
and  claim  them,  in  which  case  preference  and  a 
judicial  adjudication  of  the  money  is  observed, 
and  the  same  is  adjudged  to  him  who  has  the  besi 
and  oldest  right,  or  among  those  having  the  same 
or  equal  rights,  it  is  divided  equally,  to  each  ac- 
cording to  his  share ;  and  he  who  Jirst  obtained 
judgment  and  took  out  execution  upon  it,  does 
BOt  acquire  more  right  in  consequence  thereof  than 
another,  so  long  as  the  proceeds  of  the  execution 
be  not  legaEy  given  to  him  and  a  proper  account 
made  thereof.*  But  neither  the  English  nor 
Dutch  Law  authorities  on  the  point  can  be  strict- 
ly applicable  to  a  case  arising  within  the  old  Kan* 
dian  territory  ;  but  should  be  decided  according 
to  general  principles  of  Justice  and  Equity.  A 
prior  security  by  general  mortgage  and  Notarial 
bond  was  therefore  held  to  ha^e  a  prior  Ken  on  the 
debtor'^S  property  and  preference  of  payment  to  a 
subsequent  Notarial  bond.— 'No.  8142,  D.  C.  JCas* 

Nw.  26,  (B.  St.  C.) 

423. — Where  a  party  died  in  the  Kandian  dis- 
trict leaving  a  child,  who  wa&  stated  to  be  a  minor, 
the  Supreme  Court  directed  administration  to  be 
granted  to  him,  if  he  were  of  proper  a!ge,  on 
which  point  the  District  Court  was  directed  to  re* 


Eejefttioa  6t 

Witness  on  the 

ground  of 

Perjury. 


Preference 

among 
Creditors. 


JudgiDfent-* 
ExefiUfioJt. 


General 
Mortgage- 
Priority  oi, 
in  Kandiaa 
Territory, 


in  the  Kandiaa 

District  to 

the  Ouardiau  at 

a  MiaoT  ebiU, 


«  Van  Leeuw.  Gmm.  6&6.— Y.  d.  LindeB,  Inst.  498, 


}88e. 


[106] 


Majority 
according  to 
Kandiau.Iiaw. 


Vexatious 

action — ^by 

Pauper. 

Explanation 

from  the  Proctor 

reporting  on 

the  Petition. 


Set-off— 
of  a  debt  due 
by  A.,  against 
a,  claim  of  B., 
who  admitted 

that  A.  was 
partly  interest- 
ed in  the  daim. 


quire  proof ;  and^er  Carr  J. — "  If  the  applicant 
be  a  Minor,  the.  Court  ehould,  under  rule  18  o£ 
sec.  iv,  appoint  the  party  nominated^  by  him,  or 
some  proper  person  selected  at  its  discretion,  to 
be  a  guardian  to  the  applicant  and  grant  a  limit- 
ed administration  durante  minore  cetate  to  such, 
guardian.  The  applicant  would  be  entitled  to  lobtaia 
full  administration  of  the  said  estate  on  attaining 
his  proper  age  of  manhood  and  discretion,  which 
according  to  Kandian  Law  would  be  at  sixteen 
years  of  age,  when  he  would  be  capable  of  mar^ 
riage  and  competent  to  execute  deeds,  and  an- 
swerable at  law  for  debts  and  contracts  entered 
into  by  him.*— No.  1712  D.  C.  Matelle,  (C.) 

424. — Where  an  actfon  brought  by  a  party  in 
forma  pauperis  appeared  to  have  been  a  vexations 
and  dishonest  suit,  the  Supreme  Court  directed 
the  District  Judge  to  call  upon  the  Proctor  who 
had  certified  that  the  plaintiff  had  a  good  cause  of 
action,  for  a  full  explanation  upon  what  grounds 
lie  had  done  so.  Every  permission  to  sue  or  de- 
fend as  a  pauper,  unless  the  applicant  shews  hiin- 
self  strictly  entitled  to  it,  and  has  a  good  cauBe 
of  action,  is  an  injustice  to  the  opposite  party 
■who  has  to  contend  at  a  great  disadvantage ;  and 
the  Court  ought  to  be  fully  satisfied  in  a  case  of 
the  above  description  that  the  Proctor  had  made 
proper  enquiry  into  the  plaintiff's  case  and  not 
grossly  neglected  his  duties  thereon.  In  the  latter 
case  he  would  be  made  to  pay  the  opposite  party'ff 
costs.— No.  1737,  D.  C.  Tenrmratchy,  (C.) 

iVb«.  30,  (R..  SL  C); 

425. — In  an  action  for  the  value  of  certain 
paddy  sold  to  the  defendant  by  the  plaintiff,  th« 
defendant  claimed  in  reconvention  a  sum  of  Rds; 
500  advanced  to  the  plaintiff;  but  the  weight  of 
evidence  at  the  trial  being  in  favourof  that  sum  hav- 
ing been  advanced  not  to  the  plaintiff,  but  to  his 
father,  and  the  plaintiff's  liability  to  pay  the  same 
not  being  proved  either  by  special,  promise  or 
agreement,  or  by  the  amount  having  been  advanc- 
ed to  the  plaintiff  also,  on  a  partuership-transac* 


•  Sawjer'a  Digtst,  78. 


[  107  ] 


1836. 


tion  or  account  with  his  father  hetween  them  and 
the  defendant,  the  claim  in  reconvention  was  set 
aside.  As  it  appeared,  however,  on  the  plaintiff's 
own  admission  at  his  examination,  that  one  third 
of  the  paddy  sold  to  the  defendant  belonged  to 
the  plaintiff's  father,  the  defendant  was  declared 
entitled  to  retain  a  third  of  the  value  or  price 
for  which  his  paddy  had  been  sold,  in  part  satis- 
faction of  his  above  debt  pleaded  in  recon- 
vention against  the  plaintiff's  demand.  Judg- 
ment was  therefore  entered  for  the  plaintiff  for 
two-thirds  of  the  "paddy  claimed  ;  and  the  costs 
were  divided,  on  the"  ground  that  the  'plaintiff  had 
claimed  more  than  he  was  entitled  to,  'and  disho- 
nestly concealed  his  father's  right  to  atliird  of  the 
paddy  until  his  examination  at  the  trial. — No. 
659,  D.  C.  Galtwa,  (C.) 

'426. — As  a  general  principle,  compensation  for 
past  produce  or  Mesne  Profits,  should  not  be 
granted  in  a  case  of  merely  disputed  right,  which 
in  this  Island  is  so  lamentably  frequent,  but  only 
in  those  cases  in  which  the  land  has  been  obtain- 
ed by  force  or  been  held  over  without  any  colour 
of  light.  And  wTiere  the  plaintiff  having  brought 
a  suit  for  the  recovery  of  the  land  and  succeeding 
therein,  had  since  sued  the  defendant  for  the 
mesne  profits,  the  Supreme  Court  saw  no  reason 
why  the  plaintiff  should  not  have  made  his  claim 
for  mesne  profits  in  the  former  suit,  when  the 
Court  might  in  considering  the  whole  evidence 
therein  have  properly  decided  whether  the  plain- 
tiff was  fully  entitled  to  any  compensation  for  past 
profits ;  and  per  Carr,  J., — "  The  present  suit 
tends  to  harass  the  defendant  with  the  costs  of 
unnecessary  further  litigation;  and  neither  the 
allegations  in  the  Libel  nor  the  evidence  are  suf- 
ficient to  support  the  plaintiff's  demand,  especially 
considering  the  long  possession  of  the  defendant. 
—No.  4:234,  D.  G.Four  Corles,  (C.) 

December  7. 

427. — In  an  action  to  recover  from  the  defea< 
dant  a  sum  of  money  paid  on  his  behalf  by  the 
plaintiff  in  respect  of  a  debt  due  by  the  plaintiff 
aad  defeadaut  as  co-oblig;ors,  and  which  sum  the 


Costs  divided- 
Dishonest 
concealment. 


Mesne  Profits, 
when  decreed. 


Double  Action 
for  Land,  &  for 
Mesne  Frofits. 


Priority  at 
Creditors. 


1886.  r  108  1 


defendant  had  admitted  to  be  due  to  the  plaintiff 
as  claimed  in  the  Libel,  certain  other  parties  in- 
tervened and  claimed  preference  over  the  plaintiff 
in  respect  of  a  certain  debt  due  to  them  by  the 
defendant.  The  Supreme  Court  entered  judgi^ 
ment  for  the  plaintiff  as  against  the  defendant  for 
the  amount  claimed;  and  as  to  the  plaintiff's  righjt 
of  preference,  considered  the  three  following 
points  viz.  : — 

1.  WTiether  admitting  the  debt  due  by  the 
plaintiff  and  defendant  to  have  been  discharged . 
by  the  plaintiff  alone  out  of  her  own  private  pror 
perty,  it  was  not  necessary  by  the  existing  Laws 
of  the  Colony  for  the  plaintiff  to  have  obtained 
Cession  of  Action  from  the  creditor  at  the  time  of 
such  payment,  or  having  neglected  then  to  obtain 
it,  she  was  still  entitled  to  that  benefit  ? 

2.  Whether  the  plaintiff  having  failed  to  pro- 
cure Buch  Cession  previously  to  instituting  he? 
action,  she  could  be  allowed  to  do  so  at  that  stage 
of  the  case  ?  and 

3.  Whether  the  plaintiff  had  sufficiently  prov- 
ed as  against  the  Intervenients,  that  the  debt  due 
by  herself  and  the  defendant  had  been  paid  by 
her  or  on  her  sole  account  only,  out  of  her  private 
property  ? 

Cession  of  And  as  to  the  fint  point,  it  appeared  that  in 

wheaneMBsarv  P'^'^^i^®  ^^  authority  to  sue  without  cession  of 
action  had  never  been  disputed,  all  that  was  ever 
required  being  the  receipt  of  the  creditor  to  prove 
the  payment.  It  is  indeed  necessary  for  a  co- 
debtor  in  iolido,  on  paying  the  whole  debt  to  the 
creditor  to  obtain  from  him  cession  of  action  iu 
order  to  enable  him  to  proceed  against  his  co- 
obligor  or  co-surety  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
original  creditor  could,  such  cession  Bot  taking 
jilace  pieno  Jure  J  but  where  a  co-obligor  or  co- 
surety has  neglected  to  take  this  cession  of  action,- 
he  has  nevertheless  at  law  a  personal  action,  or 
the  right  to  proceed  in  his  own  name  against  his 
co-obligors  or  co-sureties  to  recover  their  portion* 
of  the  whole  debt  which  he  has  paid  on  their  res- 
pective accounts.  The  authorities  being  howevei 
very  conflicting  as  to  the  right  of  the  co-debtor  oi 
<}o»8m;ety,  .wkg  neglects  to  abtem  cwoft  $tt  iim 


I  109  3 


1836. 


time  of  payment,  to  claim  it  subsequently  or  ex 
intervallo  (ttough  at  the  time  of  payment  the  cre- 
ditor is  bound  to  grant  such  cession,  or  payment 
might  be  refused,)  the  Supreme  Court  laid  down 
the  following  distinctions  : — 

a.  That  Cession  of  Action  must  be  obtained 
or  expressly  agreed  for  at  the  time  of  payment, 
■where  the  co-obligor  or  co-surety  pays  off  his 
whole  debt  on  behalf  of  not  only  himself  but  his 
co-obligors  or  co-sureties  ;  in  which  case  the  equi- 
ty or  implied  promise  does  not  bo  clearly  arise,  as 
he  may  be  then  presumed  to  have  n-eglected  tak- 
ing such  cession  for  their  benefit  and  to  have  bieen 
contented  with  his  personal  right  of  action  ; — and 
a  stranger,  not  being  entitled  dej'ure  to  cession,  can 
have  no  such  equity. 

b.  Where  the  payment  is  made  by  the  co- 
debtor  in  his  man  name  and  behalf  only,  or  sim- 
ply, i.  e.  without  stating  on  whose  account  the 
payment  was  made,  such  equity  or  implied  agree- 
ment arises,  and  cession  may  be  obtained  after- 
wards ex  intervallo. 

c.  Cession  of  Action  is  only  necessary  to  enable 
the  co-debtor  to  proceed  against  his  co-obligor  or 
co-surety  m  the  same  manner  as  the  original  credi- 
tor could;  but  it  is  not  requisite  to  enable  him  to  sue 
his  co-obligor  or  co-surety  in  his  own  name  for 
their  portions. 

The  Supreme  Court  expressed  its  reluctance  to 
make  any  decision  which  would  alter  or  infringe 
upon  any  long  established  practice  in  the  Profes- 
sion, especially  where  such  practice  is  consistent 
with  well  known  principles  of  Equity,  and  when 
the  deviation  from  it  might  be  productive  of  ex- 
treme private  injury  and  hardship.  It  was  boimd 
to  administer  the  laws  as  they  "  subsisted  under 
the  ancient  Government  of  the  United  Pro-, 
vinces;"*  and  even  admitting  that  Van  der  Lin- 
den and  the  authorities  on  his  side  were  correct, 
(viz.  that  according  to  the  modern  practice  of  the 
Eoman-Dutch  Law  in  Holland,  if  a  debtor  in 
solido  had  neglected  to  take  cession  at  the  time  of 
payment,  he  could  not  obtain  it  afterwards,)  it 


Co-obligor 

paying  on  behalf 

of  his 

Co-obligoj». 


Co-obligor 

paying  in  hig 

ovm  name. 


Co-obligor, 
taking  Cession, 
succeeds  to  the 

Creditor's 
rights. 


Establishei 
Practice. 


Ancient  Law  exf 

Holland^ 

Modem 

Practice. 


Prod,  of  33.  Seft.  178S,  eonfirmedby  OrcL  Ma  &  of  U835.. 


■1«3B.  I    110  3 

■might  still  be  doubted  whether  that  practice  had 
been  introduced  into  this  Colony.  The  Court 
therefore  guided  by  the  opinion  of  Van  Leeuwen 
4n  his  CommentaTies  on  the  Koman-Butch  Law,* 
(which  is  alleged  by  Sir  Alex.  Jolinstonef  to  be 
the  work  to  which  the  Dutch  Courts  of  Ceylon 
most  usuaHy  Teferred,  and  to  be  the  basis  of  the 
Civil  and  Criminal  ■law  'Of  all  the  ceded  Dutch 
Colonies,)  consistent  as  such  opinion  is  vnth  the 
real  equity  and  justice  of  such  cases  as  well  as  the 
long-established  practice  in  the  Colony,  decided 
in  favor  of  the  plaintiff's  right  to  obtain  Cession  of 
Action  from  the  creditor,  notwithstanding  her 
neglect  to  do  so  at  the  time  of  payment.  J 
Case  referred  And  secondly,  the  Supreme  Court,  guided  by  a 

hack,  to  enable    former  decision,§  by  which  a  similar  Indulgence 

•  p.  S3S.— Censara.  For.  ■p.  i.  lib.  Jv.  c.  7.  §  2i,  2-5.— Voet. 
ad.  Pand.  Ub.  ii.  tit.  U,  §  U;  lib.  xlvi.  tit.  1.  §  30.— Vinn.  ad 
Inst.  lib.  iii.  tit.  17.  §  1.  n.  4.— Utr.  Cons.  ii.  150,  §  3—24.— 
Groeneweg.  de  LL.  Abrog.  ad  Cod.  viii.  41.  11. — Sonde  de  Act. 
Cess.  Til.  J 1.  2. — Meostad.  Deos.  xii.  p.  49. — Wassenaer,  Praet. 
Nolar.  X.  23,  24,  20. 

+  Preface  to  Tan  Leeuw.  Comm. 

"J  The  other  authorities  -cited  in  the  above  Judgment  are— 
V.d.  Linden,  Inst.  p.  204,  211.-1  Pothier  on  Vontr.  160,  291, 
364. — Bomat,  Cio.  Law,  (ed.  Strahan,^  part.  i.  b.  iii.  tit.  3.  sec. 
1.  art.  (i,  and  note. — U.  Huber,  Prmledl.  Jur.  Civ.  torn.  i.  lib.  1. 
tit.  2.  n.  8 ;  torn.  ii.  lib.  17.  tit.  1.  n.  9 ;  torn.  iii.  lib.  46.  tit.  1.  n. 
8. — Voet  Compend.  Pand.  xlvi.  1.  n  12. — Costa  ad  Inst.  iii.  16. 
sec.  1. — Wissenbach  de  Fidejus.  th.  19. — U.  Huber,  Hedeni. 
Eeghisgel.  b.  iii.  c.  25.  n.  17. — Lybrechts,  Seden.  Vertoog.  d.  ii. 
c.  34.  sec.  10. — Decker  not.  14  in  Van  Leeuw.  R.  H.  Rechtsgel. 
V.  iv.  d.  4  sec.  15. — Damhonder,  Prax.  Oiv.  c.  xlix.  n.  1, 2.-» 
Wassenaer,  Pract.  Notar,  c.  x,  sec.  46,  ( Form  of  a  Eeceipt  and 
Cession  of  Action.)  "Craythome  v.  Swiniume,  14  Ves.  162;  Par- 
sons v.  Briddock,  2  Ves.  608.;  Wright  v.  Morley,  11  Ves.  12  ;  Har- 
rison V.  Glassop,  Coop.  61.  Theobald  on  Princ.  and  Surety,  258, 
»69.    Fell  on  Guarantees,  189—209. 

§  Marshall's  Judgm.  p.  2.  No.  14383,  B.  C.  Caltura ;  See  Civ, 
Min.  14.  May,  1834.  "  The  District  Court  was  perfectly  justi- 
fied in  dismissing  the  suit,  the  plaintiffs  not  being  clothed  with 
the  character  which  would  legally  enable  them  to  prosecute  it; 
but  considering  that  Letters  of  Administration  may  be  consi- 
dered as  somewhat  a  uoTelty  in  some  of  Uie  Distiicts,  at  least 
as  a  matter  of  absolute  necessity,  and  considering  also  that  the 
objection  was  not  taken  by  the  defendant  till  after  the  plain- 
tiff's evidence  had  been  gone  through,  the  indulgence  prayed 
for  by  the  plaintiff,  that  the  case  may  be  postponed  till  the 
necessary  steps  are  taken,  instead  of  compelling  him  to  under- 
go the  expence  and  delay  of  instituting  proceedings  de  novo,  is 
not  unreasonable."  It  was  therefore  ordered  that  the  proceed- 
ings should  be  "  referred  back,  to  remain  suspended  until  Let- 
ters of  Admmistration  should  be  takea  out;  aad  that  the  case 
be  then  lesomed, 


[Ill] 


lfi3fl. 


had  been  granted,  allowed  the  plaintiff,  on  obtain- 
ing sikIi  cession,  to  avail  herself  of  that  beneiit  in 
the  present  action.  This  former  decision  related 
to  the  want  of  administration,  but  the  observa- 
tions made  therein  by  Marshall  C.  J.,  were  held 
to  apply  with  equal  force  to  the  present  case,  con- 
eLdering  the  former  practice  in  the  profession  and 
the  proceedings  in  the  suit. 

And  tMrdlj/,  it  was  held  that  the  evidence  in 
the  case  was  insufficient  to  support  the  plaintiff's, 
claim  as  against  the  Intervenients  ;  for  the  admis~ 
sion  of  the  defendant  could  not  affect  the  Inter- 
venients, against  whom  the  plaintiff  should  have 
fully  proved  that  the  sum  claimed  had  been  ac- 
tually paid  on  her  sole  behalf  out  of  her  own  pri- 
vate property.  The  only  evidence  adduced  to 
establish  this  fact  was  a  Fiscal's  receipt,  by  which 
the  payment  appeared  to  have  been  made  by  the 
defendant  himself,  with  an  interlineation  in  a  dif- 
ferent hand-writing  to  the  effect  of  such  payment 
having  been  made  on  behalf  of  the  plaintiff;  and 
this  was  held  to  require  much  further  explanation 
by  clear  and  satisfactor)'  proof  in  its  favour. 

And  under  these  circumstances,  the  proceed- 
ings in  regard  to  the  plaintiff's  claim  of  prefer- 
ence over  the  Intervenients,  were-  referred  back 
to  the  District  t^ourt  to  require  the  plaintiff  to 
establish  by  sufficient  proof  that  there  were  no 
available  assets  of  her  late  husband  from  which 
Uie  above  judgment-debt  could  have-  been  satis^^ 
fied,  and  that  it  had  been  paid  on  her  own  sole 
behalf  out  of  her  own  private  property;  and  to  al- 
low her  also  to  obtain  and  file  her  Cession  of  Ac- 
tion from  the  Creditor  after  amending  her  libel 
accordingly.— No.  3193,  D.  G.  Jaffna,  (C.) 

428. — A  District  Court  is  not  justified  in  eras- 
ing any  part  of  its  recorded  decree,  though  it  be 
called  only  a  "  note  of  what  struck  the  Judge 
when  reading  over  the  case  going  into  appeal." — 
Ho.  6499,  D.C.  CoJomio,  (C.) 

December  14,  (R.  St.  C.> 

429. — A  plaintiff  having,  during  the  hearing  of 
the  case,  caUed  and  examined  &,  witness^  and  ^en 


plaintiff  to 

obtain  Cession 

of  Action. 


Evidence  of 

payment,  as 

against 

Tliird  parties. 


Alteration 
of  a  Decree. 


Waiver  of  one 

of  the  grounds^ 

ofactioD/ 


1838. 


Fiscal's  Eetum. 

"  Not  to  be 

found." 


Sequestration 

cannot  be  issued 

into  other 

Districts. 


Waiver  of  Plea 
to  tbe  Jurisdn. 


tll2] 

intimated  by  lier  Proctor  to  the  District  Court 
"  that  as  the  talipot  upon  which  the  action  was 
brouglit  was  not  before  the  Court,  she  would  not 
adduce  any  evidence  in  proof  of  it ;"  and  having 
therefore  proceeded  to  adduce  evidence  in  support 
of  her  second  ground  of  action,  viz.,  a  title  by 
prescription ;  Sdd  that  she  could  not  be  allowed 
upon  a  subsequent  day  to  adduce  evidence  again 
in  support  of  her  first  ground  of  action,  that  being 
a  distinct  part  of  her  case  on  which  she  had  al- 
ready gone  into  evidence  on  a  former  day,  and 
had  not  only  clearly  failed  to  establish  by  proof, 
but  was  also  considered  on  the  above  record  of 
the  proceedings  to  have  been  waived  and  aban- 
doned.—No.  7519,  D.  C.  Kandy,  (C), 

430. — A  Return  from  the  Fiscal  of  Jaffiia  on  a 
Warrant,  to  the  effect  that  "  the  defendant  was 
gone  to  Aripo,"  which  is  within  the  same  Fiscal's 
Province,  was  held  not  tantamount  to  the  return 
of  "  not  to  be  found."— No  2429,  D.  C.  iS'e^om- 
6o,  (C.)* 

431. — Sequestration  cannot  be  issued  into  other 
districts  under  rule  15  of  sec.  I.  This  rule  limits 
the  Sequestration  to  property  within  the  district 
in  which  the  action  is  brought.  Besides  which, 
the  subseqwent  proceedings, — such  as  calling  on 
the  defendant  to  appear,  the  dissolution  of  the 
sequestration  in  case  of  appearance,  the  entertain- 
ing the  claims  of  third  parties,  and  the  staying  of 
original  proceedings  pending  such  claims, — would 
all  be  very  difficult  of  execution  in  a  district  fo- 
reign to  that  in  which  the  action  was  brought. 
Execution  indeed  may  issue  into  other  district* 
(rule  36,  sec.  i.),  but  the  same  objections  do  not 
present  themselves  in  that  stage  of  the  proceed- 
ings.— Ihid. 

432. — The  objection  to  the  defendant  being  out 
of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  in  which  the  ac- 
tion has  been  brought,  (cl  24  of  the  Charter,)  may 
be  considered  waived  by  his  appearance  and  sub- 
mitting to  the  same. — Ihid. 


'  See' also  Circular  Letter  of  Ole  STtJi- February  18&t. 


[113] 


i83e. 


433. — Where  the  plaintiff,  by  his  Libel,  claim- 
ed only  a  specific  sum  of  money,  as  house-rent, 
and  that  the  defendant  might  be  condemned  "  to 
dehver  over  the  house  and  pay  costs  of  suit ;" 
Seld  that  the  District  Court  could  not  give  judg- 
ment for  subsequent  arrears  of  rent ;  and  per  Oaer 
J. — "  The  Libel  has  not  even  the  usual  conclud- 
ing prayer  for  '  such  other  relief  as  the  Court 
may  deem  meet,'  upon  -which  the  decree  for  sub- 
sequent arrears  might  be  supported." — No.  12126, 
D.  0.  Colovnho,  N,  (C.) 

4:34. — The  Supreme  Court  expressed  its  re- 
luctance to  refer  back  a  trifling  case  for  further 
evidence,  where  it  felt  satisfied  of  the  moral  jus- 
tice of  the  decision  appealed  against ;  but  held\\^i 
a  defendant  had  an  undoubted  right  to  insist  upon 
the  claim  brought  against  him  being  legally  proved, 
though  he  might  probably  incur  only  further  ex- 
pense by  the  objection. — Ihid. 

435. — Though  there  is  no  express  general  order 
in  the  Rules  and  Orders  on  the  subject  of  reviving 
a  suit  which  has  abated  by  the  death  of  either  of 
the  parties,  it  has  been  the  settled  practice  of  the 
District  Courts  of  Colbmbof  upon  any  party  (either 
plaintiff  or  defendant)  dying,  to  allow  the  old  suit 
to  be  revived  instead  of  another  action  being 
brought ;  and  where  a  plaintiff  had  died  pending 
the  suit,  a  party  applying  to  he  allowed  to  revive 
it,  was  held  entitled  to  do  so,  on  his  proving  to 
the  satisfaction  of  the  District  Court  that  he 
■was  the  sole  administrator  of  the  deceased  plain- 
tiff.  The  Supreme  Court  had,  on  a  former  occa- 
sion, upon  a  reference  fi-om  the  District  Court  of 
Madawellatenne,  expressed  its  opinion*  as  to  the 
practice  in  such  cases,  that  "  if  a  plaintiff,  upon  a 
Buit  having  become  abated  by  the  death  of  the 
defendant,  «hauld  persist  in  bringing  a  fresh  ac- 
tion, without  being  able  to  shew  good  cause  for  so 
doing,  the  costs  incurred  by  such  unnecessary  pro- 
ceeding should  be  borne  by  the  plaintiff." — No. 
2874,  D.  C.  Negombo,  (C.> 


Claim  of  a 

specific  Slim — 

Subsequent 

Arrears. 


Prayer  fop 
further  Belief. 


Deft.'s  right 

to  insist  upon. 

legal  proof. 


Eevivor  of  a 

suit  abated  bjt 

the  death  of 

a  party. 


Fresli  Actiony 

without 

revivor— 

Costs. 


■  Letter  Book,  9th  Oct.  1834. 


i836. 


[114] 


Malice, 
•when  implied. 


General 
Denial — 
Defence. 


Sreneral 

Denial — 

Bnrthen  of 

Proof — viz. 


Fos3easiou — 
Titie— 
Value — 

Damages. 


Administration 

to  deceased's 

Wife's  estate->- 

Delay. 


(guardianship 
of  the  childien. 


4:36. — Where  a  charge  appears  to  have  been 
clearly  false  aBil  without  any  prohahle  cause,  the 
Law  will  imply  malice. — No.  3361,  D.C  Chilcm^ 
(0.) 

437. — Where  the  defendanthad  omitted  to  plead 
the  21st  clause  of  the  Ordinance  No.  3  of  1834,  or 
the  6th  clause  of  the  Ordinance  No.  8  of  1834  in 
bar  of  the  plaintiff's  claim,  but  had  only  put  in  a 
geaeral  denial  by  Answer ;  Seld  that  the  case 
ehouM  be  decided  on  the  evidence  additced  therein, 
—No.  10419,  D.  0.  Colombo,  N,  (0.) 

Ike.  21.  (R.  St.  C.) 

438. — Where  th«  defendant  by  his  Answer 
"  denies  the  claim  set  forth  in  the  pkiatifFs  Libel," 
it  is  incumbent  on  the  plaintiff  to  prove  every 
necessary  allegation  or  fact  therein  in  support  of 
his  claim.  In  an  action  to  recover  a  carriage 
claimed  by  the  plaintiff  from  the  defendant,  it  was 
held  that,  upon  the  foregoing  answer,  the  defend- 
ant's poBsessien  of  the  carriage  being  admitted, 
the  plaintiff  should  have  proved  his  title  thereta 
and  the  value  thereof  when  the  defendant  first 
took  it  J  or  if  he  wished  to  recover  back  th«  car- 
riage with  a  eompensatioa  for  damages  wt(ich  it 
hjid  sustained  since  it  had  been,  in  the  defendant's 
possession,  that  .he  should  have  adduced  satis-' 
factory  evidence  of  siich  diamageSi  Where  no 
proof  of  the  value  of  th«  carriage  or  of  the  da- 
mage done  thereto  had  been  offered,  the  utmost 
that  the  Court  could  decree,  suppoaag  the  plain- 
tiff's  title  to  the  carriage  proved,  would  be  thff 
restoration  of  the  carriage  with  costs  of  suit.— No. 
3253,  D.  0.  Chdlaw,  (C.) 

439. — The  Husband  has  a  preferaMe  claim  to 
administration  of  the  estate  of  his  deceased  Wife, 
and  should  not  be  deprived  of  it  owing  to  a  delay 
in  applying  for  it,  which  may  have  arisen  from 
error,  if.  he  be  willing  to  rectify  it  upon  giviog 
security  and  taking  out  Letters  of  Administsa- 
tion  within  a  short  time  (twenty  days.)  And  as 
regards  the  guardianship  of  children,  it  could-  be 
only  under  very  strong  circumstances  indeed 
against  the  character  and  conduct  of  a  Father, 
that  the  Supreme  Court  would  allow  him  to  be 


[115  J 


1838. 


deprived  of  his  child,  of  which  he  is  the  tia+tiral 
etiafdian,  and  appoint  another  person  to  be  her 
ftiture  guardian. — No.  10,  D.  C.  Amblangodde, 
(C.) 

440. — "Where,  after  the  death  of  the  wife,  the 
husband,  previous  to  obtaining  administration  to 
her  estate,  had,  for  himself  and  as  guardian  of  his 
minor  child,  brought  an  action  [in  respect  of  pro- 
perty belonging  to  the  common  estate,]  the  Su- 
preme Court  allowed  the  husband  time  to  obtain 
Letters  of  Administration  to  his  wife's  estate. — 
Ibid. 

441.— The  rule  laid  down  in  No.  128,  D.  C. 
CMvagacherry,  (4th  June  1834,)  and  No.  2587, 
D.  C.  Ruanwelle,  (20th  Jan.  1836,)  in  respect  of 
the  double  sum  payable  under  the  Government 
conditions  as  penalty  for  having  reaped  without 
due  notice  (viz.  that  these  conditions  form  a  mere 
contract  between  the  Government  and  the  Renter, 
but  are  not  binding  on  third  parties  further  than 
such  parties  may  by  their  own  acts  have  made 
themselves  responsible  to  Government  and  the 
Renters,)  was  repeated  in  No.  792,  D.  C.  Tenmo' 
ratch-t/,  (C.) 

442. — No  alteration  or  insertion  ought  to  be 
made  in  the  minutes  of  evidence  at  the  time  when 
the  witness  is  under  examination  ;  and  no  omis- 
Bion  in  recording  the  depositions  (if  due  attention 
be  paid,)  can  possibly  occur,  which  would  not  be 
capable  of  a  very  short  interlineation ;  for  if  a 
witness  subsequently  corrects  his  former  evidence 
or  is  recalled  for  further  examination,  such  addi- 
tional evidence  must  not  be  recorded  by  an  alter- 
ation of  the  former  statement  or  by  inserting  it 
on  the  margin  of  his  former  depositions,  but 
should  be  duly  recorded  in  the  stage  of  the  written 
proceedings  in  which  it  was  made. — Ibid. 

Dtc.  28. 

443. — On  reading  a  letter  from  the  District 
Judge  of  GaUe  transmitting  a  case  which  had  been 
heard  in  appeal,  together  with  the  decree  passed 
therein  by  the  Supreme  Court  on  the  12th  No- 
vember, it  was  ordered  that  the  clerical  error 


Administration 
ling  an 
action. 


Conditions, 
not  binding  on 
Third  parties. 


Mode  of 
recording 
depositions. 


Alteration  of 

a  clerical  error 

in  a  Decree. 


1836.  I"   116  3 

■pointed  out  by  the  District  Judge  in  the  said  de- 
cree as  to  the  date  of  a  deed  thereby  required  to 
be  proved,  should  be  amended,  by  the  year  1831 
in  the  date  of  the  said  deed  (mentioned  in  the  7th 
line  of  the  decree)  being  altered  into  the  year 
1834.— No.  2689,  D.  C.  Galle,  (0.) 

Dec.  31,  <R.  J?  St.) 

The  Hon'ble  John  Jeremie,  Esquire,  wasswora 
ia  as  Senior  Puisne  Justice. 


1837,  January  4,  (E.  J.  St.) 

444. — In  an  action  for  damages,  brought  by  the 
■plaintiff  {Bastian  Pulh,)  against  David  Sugens, 
it  appeared  that  the  plaintiff  had  been  hired  into 
the  service  of  Colonel  Arbuthnot  by  that  gentle- 
man's head-servant,  having  some  months  before 
been  in  the  domestic  employment  of  the  defend- 
ant, who  had  dismissed  him  for  alleged  misconduct 
of  a  serious  nature.  The  defendant,  on  hearing 
of  the  plaintiff's  engagement  at  Col.  Arbuthnot's, 
had  written  the  following  letter  to  him,  which  led 
to  the  dismissal  of  the  plaintiff: — '"New  Bazar, 
June  7,  1836.  Sir,  I  hope  you  will  excuse  the 
liberty  I  take  in  addressing  you ;  but  having  been 
informed  that  you  have  engaged  a  servant  by 
name  Bastian  Pulle,  I  beg  to  apprize  you  that  he 
was  in  my  service  for  the  last  five  months,  and 
that  I  was  obliged  to  discharge  him  on  account  of 
his  dishonesty,  having  been  robbed  of  plate  to  the 
amount  of  Eds.  200,  tmder  circumstances  which 
leave  no  doubt  as  to  his  being  the  thief.  Since 
this  occasion  I  have  been  most  cTedibly  informed 
that  plate  has  been  abstracted  from  several  fa- 
miUes  in  which  Bastian  Pulle  was  at  the  time 
employed  as  a  servant.  I  therefore  feel  it  my 
duty  to  inform  you  of  the  above  circumstances, 
in  order  that  you  may  take  means  to  prevent  a 
similar  loss  with  yourself,  and  also  to  prevent  a 
servant  so  deserving  of  pttnishment  from  obtaining 
employment  of  which  his  past  behaviour  shews  he 
is  so  unworthy.  Should  you  have  any  doubts  aa 
to  what  I  have  stated  above,  I  will  be  happy  to 
acquaint  you  with  aU  the  particulars  I  know  re- 
garding this  man's  dishonesty  ;  and  should  these 
prove  unsatisfactory,  I  beg  to  refer  you  to  A.  W. 
Archer  Esquire.  I  remain,  Sir,  &c.,  David  Hu- 
gens."  To  this  action  the  defendant  alleged  three 
defences,  viz.  1,  that  the  information  contained  in 
the  letter  was  communicated  confidentially,  and 
not  with  a  view  of  injuring  the  plaintiff;  2,  that 


1837. 

Action  for 
Defamation. 


Defence-"- 

1,  Confidentia; 

oommnnioationl 

Z,  Jasti£catiott. 


1837. 


[118] 


3,  Truth  in  mi- 
tigation of 
Pamages. 


Evidence. 


Juflgmentoftlie 
District  Coui't. 


what  was  therein  stated  was  true  ;  and  3,  that  if 
the  truth  was  not  admissible  as  a  complete  justi- 
fication, it  should  at  least  be  admitted  in  mitiga- 
tion of  damages.  At  the  trial,  the  letter  being 
admitted,  as  well  as  the  fact  of  the  plaintiff  having 
been  discharged  from  Col.  Arbuthnot's  service  in 
concequence  of  it,  the  defendant  was  allowed  to 
go  into  proof  of  the  facts  therein  stated,  viz. 
the  absence  of  any  malice  in  writing  the  letter, 
(one  of  the  witnesses  deposing  that  the  defen- 
dant had  previously  consulted  him  as  to  the 
propriety  of  informing  Col.  A.,  as  a  stranger  to 
the  country,  of  the  loss  mentioned  in  the  letter,), 
and  the  fact  of  a  strong  .suspicion  having  been, 
entertained  against  the  plaintiff  by  the  defen- 
dant and  others  The  Court  below*  hereupon 
gave  judgment,  {E.  P.  Wtlmoi,  one  of  the  As- 
sessors, dissentiente,)  1,  that  the  letter  tended  to 
the  infamy  of  the  plaintiff,  and  had  been  writ- 
ten with  the  deliberate  intention  of  injuring  the 
plaintiff  by  getting  him  dismissed  from  the  service 
he  then  held,  and  preventing  him,  as  far  as  defa- 
mation of  character  would  avail,  from  procuring 
another  situation  as  a  servant ;  2,  that  the  defend- 
ant having  previously  discharged  the  plaintiff  from 
his  employ,  without  publicly  charging  him  with 
theft  for  the  sake  of  justice,  or  taking  any  legal 
steps  against  him,  had  no  right  to  accuse  him  in 
private  and  to  calumniate  him  behind  his  back 
upon  mere  suspicion  ;  and  3,  that  in  an  action  of 
injury  for  written  defamation  the  truth  of  the 
imputation  was  no  excuse;  and  could  not  be  ad- 
mitted either  in  justification  or  in  mitigation, 
where  the  plaintiff  concludes  merely  for  pecu- 
niary reparation,  unless  where  the  defamatory 
matter  related  to  some  offence,  which  it  was  th» 
interest  of  the  public  should  be  made  known,  and 
the  communieation  were  made  to  a  Magistrate 
or  other  person  in  authority  for  the  lawful  pur- 


JT.  C.  PHns,  Assessors. 


[119   ]  183^- 

■f>0SG  of  bringing  the  person  accused  to  justice.* 
And  thereupon  the  defendant  was  condemned  in 
£15  as  damages  and  the  costs  of  suit. 

On  an  appeal  against  this  decision,  the  Judges  Judgment  in 
of  the  Supremo  Court  affirmed  it,  hut  deUvered-  Appeal, 
their  judgments  severally  ;  and  as  these  are  not 
recorded  in  the  Minutes,  the  original  MSS.  being 
merely  filed  separately  in  the  Draft-Judgraent 
Book,  they  are  here  given,  severally  in  a  digest- 
ed form : — 

Rough   C.    J. — The    question  for   enquiry  is 
whether  the  plaintiff's  action  is  maintainable,  and 
whether  he  is  entitled  to  recover  damages  against 
the  defendant.     The  defendant  writes  to  Col.  Ar- 
buthnot  stating  his  own  conviction  of  the  plaintiff's 
misconduct,  with  the  view  of  protecting  Colonel 
Arbuthnot's  interests  and  to  prevent  the  plaintiff 
from  being  retained  by  him.      And  it  is  argued 
that  this  was  merely  the  performance  of  a  duty,, 
and  was  unaccompanied  by  any  malice ;  and  that, 
being  a  confidential  communication,  which  he  the 
defendant  had  a  right  to  make,  and  being  found- 
ed in  the  feeUef  of  its  truth,  he  cannot  be  held 
responsible  for  it.  But  if  in  its  form  and  structure 
pf  expression,  it  bears  upon  it  evident  marks  of 
an  intention  unduly  -to  injure,  it  is  not  because  it 
is  termed  and  designed  to  be  confidential,  that 
protection  must  therefore  be  extended  to  it.  Such 
a  communication  is  not  the  lees  Kbellous,  because 
meant  only  for  the  ear  of  the  individual  whose  con- 
ductit  is  intended  to  guide  and  sway.  Butitis  urged 
again  that  circumstances  may  rebut  the  inference 
of  malice ;  that  the  letter  being  openly  signed  and 
aubscribed  by  the  defendant,  and  the  previous 
consultation  entered  into  by  him  with  respectable 
individuals  as  to  the  jjropriety  of  sending  such  a 
letter,  tend  to  demonstrate  that  a  sense  of  public 
or  private  duty  alone  was  the  motive  influencing. 

*  Giot.  Intnd.  iii.  36.  §'  2,— D.  Hamester,  v.  2.  t.  2,  de  injur. 
— Kersteman,  Acad.  a.  ix. — ^Van  Hasselt,  Crim.  1).  ii.  o.  19.  §  6, 
1,  13' — ^Voet,  Comm.  ad  Inst,  lib,  iv.  t.  i. — Van  Zutphen,  Fract. 
tit.  de  inJKr.  §  4. — A.  Gail,  Obeerv.  h.  ii.  obs.  99. — A.  Corvinus, 
Dig.  lib.  xlvii.  t.  10. — Lauterbach,  Compend.  lib.  xItIj.  t.  10. — 
A.  Tirai.  Cmvment.  lib.  iv.  t.  4. — Van  Leeuw.  Cens.  For.  p.  i.  Ub. 
V.  0.  26.  And  see  Hopman  v.  Sturk  decided  in  January  182S, 
CGiffard  C.  J.,)  by  the  late  High  Court  of  Appeal. 


1830. 


C  120  I 

this  act.  I  confess  however,  after  cautions  medi- 
ation, I  cannot  but  be  of  opinion  that  the  de- 
claration  of  the  dissentient  Assessor  as  to  the  can- 
donr  -which  is  due  frona  one  EngUshman  to  another 
and  the  John-Bull  honesty  of  intention  which 
guided  the  conduct  of  the  defendant  towards  Ool. 
Arbuthnot,  partakes  more  of  the  zeal  of  an  Ad- 
vocate than  the  calmness  of  a  sworn  Juror.  In 
opposition  to  this,  I  have  the  judgment  of  the  Dis- 
trict Judge  and  the  two  other  Assessors,  and  I' 
ata  to  express  ray  own,  opinion  upon  the  letter 
itself.  It  is  clear  from  the  evidence  that  this' 
letter  was  a  work  of  great  deliberation,  and  it  is 
idle  to  talk  of  it  as  the  character  of  a  Servant' 
given  by  his  Master.  It  is  not  indeed  pretended' 
that  it  is  such  ;  and  it  seems  to  me  impossible  not 
to  feel  that  the  existing  motive  for  thus  writing, 
though  it  be  to  serve  Colonel  Arbuthnot,  is  yet 
at  the  same  time  more  effectively  apparent;  inju- 
riously to  prevent  the  employment  of  the  pMntifE- 
It  must  always  be  borne  in  mind  that  however 
impressed  the  defendant's  mind  was  with  a  con- 
viction of  the  plaintiff's  wrong  doings,  he  yet' 
made  no  effort  whatever  to  bring  him  through 
any  magisterial  enquiry  to  justice ;  and  yet,  hav- 
ing avoided  to  do  this,  he  in  the  most  undoubting 
manner  communicates  to  Colonel  Arbuthnot  his 
suspicion,  as  if  suspicion  was  equivalent  to  proof. 
He  scarcely  leaves  it  to  Colonel  Arbuthnot  to 
form  a  judgment,  but  boldly  afi&rms  what  after 
all  can  only  be  suspicion ;  and  not  only  does  he 
state  his  belief  as  to  that  in  which  he  himself  has 
a  personal  concern,  but  he  goes  out  of  his  way  to 
insinuate  charges,  the  truth  of  which  he  possesses 
no  means  whatever  of  being  at  all  assured  of.  I 
cannot  think  this  a  letter  which  should  have  been 
written  on  such  an  occasion,  and  to  this  act  of 
writing  such  may  well  be  applied  the  maxim  cited 
by  the  Senior  Puisne  Justice,,  that  it  is  impru' 
dentta  dolo  proxima.  But  again  a  justification  of 
this  letter  is  sought  to  be  founded  on  an  allegation 
that  the  plaintiff  was  by  common  consent  a  man 
destitute  of  all  character,  and  therefore  not  en- 
titled to  recover  damages  at  the  hands  of  justice 
for  any  injurious  expressions  used  towards,  him. 


[121] 

The  proof  of  this  has  however  utterly  failed ;  for 
not  only  had  he  a  character  sufficiently  good  to 
entitle  him  to  be  recommended  to  service  by 
Col.  Arbuthnot's  butler,  but  the  very  charge 
brought  against  him  was  founded  on  suspicion 
only  ;  and  where  there  is  a  possibility  of  doubt,  it 
cannot  but  be  dangerous  to  assert  criminality  in 
the  uncompromising  manner  in  which  this  has 
been  done.  It  is  scarcely  necessary,  under  these 
circumstances,  to  enquire  whether  or  not  the  Dis- 
trict Judge  has  betrayed  some  inconsistency  in  re- 
ceiving evidence,  amd  entering  upon  the  merits  of 
the  case,  and  yet  giving  as  his  judgment  that  in 
cases  of  written  injury  the  truth  of  the  slander 
cannot  be  received  in  justification,  and  scarcely  in 
mitigation  of  damages.  In  the  case  decided  by 
Sir  Mardinge  Gfiffard  it  appears  to  have  been  laid 
down  by  that  learned  Judge  that  the  truth  of  an 
allegation  can  be  received  in  justification  neither 
of  verbal  nor  written  slander  ;  but  he  admitted 
evidence  in  mitigation  of  damages.  In  modern 
Boman-Dutch  Law,  the  opinion  seems  to  prevail 
that  in  cases  of  verbal  injury,  truth  may  be  given 
in  evidence,  perhaps  in  justification,  certainly  in 
mitigation.  Van  der  Keessel,  Thes.  803.  In  Titter- 
ton  V.  Armstrong,  decided  in  1831  by  the  then  act- 
ing Chief  Justice  (Sir  Charles  Marshall,)  it  seems 
not  to  have  occurred  to  him  that  written  injurious 
slander  might  not  be  justified,  were  the  facts  stat- 
ed proved  to  be  true.  The  cases  are  not  however 
irreconciliable  ;  and  this  point  does  not  require  to 
be  gone  into  on  the  present  occasion,  conceiving 
this  letter  to  be  an  unguarded,  rash  and  in  many 
material  respects  unfounded,  and  therefore  in  a 
legal  view  a  mahcions,  communication,  I  think  the 
Judgment  of  the  District  Court  must  be  affirmed. 

'  Jerbmib  J. — Whilst  confirming  the  decree  of 
the  District  Judge,  I  differ  so  materially  from  him 
on  the  Law,  that  it  appears  bufr  right  to  guard 
against  the  possibility  of  my  sentiments  being 
mistaken  on  a  point  of  so  much  importance.  I 
concur  in  the  opinions  of  the  two  very  learned 
Justices  who  determined  in  two  preceding  in- 
stances cases  of  this  nature,  that  of  Sir  Hardinge 

Giffard  in  the  case  of  Mo^man  v.  Stork,  and  of 


18»7. 


18S7.  j;  122  3 

Sir  Charles  Marshall  in  Titterton  v.  Armstrong. 
And  I  not  only  conceive  that  there  is  no  discre- 
pancy in  their  opinions,  but  I  also  incline  to  think 
that  their  sentiments  are  in  perfect  harmony  with 
the  law  of  this  country. 

The  legal  question  subdivides  itself  into  the  fol- 
lowing points : — 1,  Is  the  Court  in  cases  of  Libel 
to  be  guided  by  the-  principles  of  the  EngK^  Law 
or  the  Koman-Dutch  Law  ;  and  2,  "What  is  the 
actual  difference  between  these  laws  on  subjects 
of  this  nature '? 

It  is,  I  conceive,  an  unquestioned  doctrine  that 
the  laws  of  a  conquered  Country  are  silently  adopt- 
ed by  the  conquerors,  even  if  there  were  no  ex- 
press capitulation ;  and  therefore  that  it  requires 
a  positive  law  from  the  conquerors  to  change,  al- 
ter or  amend  the  law  as  it  stood  at  the  period  of 
the  conquest.  In  this  Colony  there  is  no  such 
positive  law  or  reguhttion  with  regard  to  cases  of 
libel.  True  it  has  been  enacted  by  a  recent  Or- 
dinance* that  the  English  Law  of  Evidence  shall 
be  observed  in  this  country,  but  the  question  here 
is  one  of  pleading  and  not  of  evidence.  The  ques- 
tion is  not  what  evidence  shall  be  sufficient  to 
prove  the  truth  of  a  libel,  but  whether  the  truth 
can  be  pleaded  at  all  as  a  justification.  And  for 
this  we  must  have  recourse  to  the  Roman-Dutch 
Law,  which  was  avowedly  the  law  of  the  country 
at  the  period  of  its  cajHtuktion. 

But  then  comes  the  second  question,  what  says 
the  Boman-Dutch  Law  on  this  point ;  or,  as  I 
have  already  stated  it,  in  what  respects  does  it 
differ  from  the  Law  of  England  ?  The  law  of 
England  admits  of  two  kinds  of  action  for  Libel, — 
the  one  exclusively  civil,  and  the  other  as  ex- 
clusively criminal ;  the  one  having  for  its  sole  ob- 
ject a  reparation  in  damages  to  the  party  offended, 
the  other  the  suppression  and  punishment  of  a  pub- 
lic offence.  In  the  civil  action,  the  truth  may  not 
only  be  given  in  evidence  if  pleaded,  but  is  under 
all  circumstances  in  itself,  if  proved,  a  complete 
reply  to  and  justification  of  the  Libel ;  whilst  is 
the  criminal  action,  it  can  neither  be  pleaded  nor 
given  in  evidence,  and  if  taken  into  consideration 
•  No.  6  ot  18S1,  " 


C  123  ]  .»88^- 

on  affidavits  filed  after  a  verdict  of  guilty  has  been 
actually  proaouneedby  the  Jury.  The  Roman- 
Dutch  Law  oa  the  other  hand  admits  of  none  of 
these  technicalities.  It  does  not  admit  that  the 
truth  alone  is  of  necessity  a  Bufficient  reply  to  any 
libel,  and  tiierefore  it  does  not  allow  the  truth  to 
be  pleaded  in  justification  ;  but  it  does  not  thence 
follow  that  the  truth  may  not  be  given  in  evidence  j 
when  it  may  be  received  in  mitigation  of  damages, 
occasiondly  also  in  justification,  and  at  other 
times,  though  rarely,  in  aggravation,  where  for 
instance  a  person  of  station,  honor  and  respectabi- 
lity, but  labouring  under  some  bodily  deformity, 
has  been  held  up  to  public  ridicule,  insult  au4 
contumely,, owing  to  such  deformity.  On  the 
other  hand,  suppose  a  man  guilty  of  some  aeriotts 
offence  or  of  a  tainted  character,  who  is  likely  to 
olAain  a  trust  w^here  he  may  have  an  opportunity 
to  renew  his  culpable  practices ;.  here  the  occasion 
being  such  as  to  warrant  the  communication  of  the 
itvth  by  a  person  of  ordinary  discretion,  the  truth 
will  under  these  circumstances  amount  to  a  suf- 
ficient justification  of  the  act,  for  here  ibe  two  fol- 
lowing circumstances  combipe,  viz.  the  occasion 
was  sufficient  to  warrant  the  communication,  and 
the  communication  is  substantially  true.  In  a 
word,  the  truth  is  considered  an  important  ele- 
ment in  forming  a  right  judgment  of  the  motive 
by  which  the  defendant  was  actuated;;  but, it  ia 
only  an  element,  and  cannot  therefore  be  exclu- 
sively pleaded  as  a  sufficient  reply  to  any  defama- 
tory publication.  And  so  in  effect' has  it  been 
viewed  by  Sir  Hardinge  Giffard  and  Sir  Charlet 
Marshall. 

I  am  aware  that  at  a  period  not  perhaps  very 
remote,  the  doctrine  which  still  prevails  in  the  cri- 
minal courts  of  England  was  held  by  many  writers 
of  eminence  on  foreign  jurisprudence,  was  adher- 
ed to  and  strictly  laid  down  during  the  middle 
ages,  and  is  supported  by  some  texts  in  the  Cor- 
pus Jv/ris.  But  it  is  by  no  means  clear  that  thi? 
was  the  general  doctrine  of  the  Bomau  Law ; 
whilst  it  ia  tolerably  clear  that  a  jurisprudence 
more  conformable  to  equity  has  now  very  gener- 
ally obtained  in  the  coatineutal  courts,  whose 


1887.  |-   124   3 

laws,  like  the  laws  of  this  country,  have  the  Civil 
Law  as  their  basis.  And  when  this  doctrine  is 
farther  confirmed  by  the  concurrent  judgments 
of  the  Supreme  Court,  on  two  important  occa- 
Bions,  there  seems  to  be  no  necessity  for  recurring 
in  this  exclusively  civil  action  to  principles  in  a 
great  measure  obsolete. 

It  appears  therefore  that  evidence  ought  to  have 
been  gone  into ;  that  it  was  correctly  taken  by  the 
Court  below ;  and  that  there  is  an  error  in  the 
judgment  of  that  Court,  inasmuch  as  the  Judge 
has  refused  to  take  cognizance  of  the  evidence,  hut 
has  proceeded  to  determine  the  case  without  re- 
ference to  the  truth  of  the  charges  contained  in 
the  letter.  But  these  charges  are  not  proved, 
and  we  are  therefore  bound  to  believe  them  not 
true.  And  the  laws  of  every  country,  the  very 
well-being  of  Society,  command  that  conduct  so 
rash  and  ill-advised,  not  to  say  wanton,  as  that  of 
the  defendant  should  not  pass  unchecked  ;  and  that 
if  injury  has  been  suffered,  as  it  undoubtedly  has 
been,  adequate  reparation  should  be  made. 

Stoddart  J. — In  the  defence  which  has  been 
offered  in  this  case,  certain  averments  have  been 
made,  the  competency,  the  evidence  and  the  effect 
of  which  are  all  equally  disputed.  The  evidence 
must  be  estimated  by  the  rules  of  the  English  Law 
of  Evidence,  which  under  certain  limitations  is  the 
law  of  this  Island  by  a  recent  Eegulation^  The 
effect  must  be  determined  by  the  Roman-Dutch 
Law,  as  administered  in  Ceylon  at  the  period  of 
the  CoBquest  in  1796.  {Clark  on  Colonial  Law, 
p.  4,  ed.  1834.)  It  has  been  plausibly  argued  for 
the  plaintiff  that  though  the  effect  of  the  averments 
is  to  be  decided  by  our  Common  Law,  we  must 
determine  their  admissitm  to  proof,  as  a  question 
of  proof,  by  the  English  Law.  I  apprehend  how- 
ever that  the  Law  of  Evidence  does  not  determine 
the  nature  of  the  averments  that  may  be  estab-' 
lished  by  evidence,  but  the  nature  of  the  evidence 
by  which  averments  may  be  established.  I  have 
therefore  no  difficulty  in  concluding  that  the  com* 
petency  of  the  articles  of  this  defence  is  not  affeet* 
ed  by  the  Begulatiou. 


[  125   ]  3887. 

By  the  Roman-Dutch  Law,  the  civil  remedy 
against  Slander  consists  of  two  actions,  usually, 
but  not  necessarily,  conjoined, — the  actio  ad  Pa- 
Unodiatn  and  the  uctw  ad  Irijuriaie  Atitivnatio- 
nem.  The  former  was  unknown  to  the  Roman 
Law,  but  the  latter  is  in  every  respect  the  same 
as  the  civil  action  of  Damages  under  the  Prfeto- 
rian  Edict,  in  the  general  case  of  slander,  and  un- 
der the  Lex  CorTxUa  die  injurm,  in  the  instance 
of  d-efamation  by  writing.  The  words  of  Van 
der  Linden  might  indeed  have  led  us  to  believe 
that  the  object  of  the  Dutch  action  for  profitable 
amends  was  the  infliction  of  an  arbitrary  fin*  pay- 
able to  the  poor ;  but  the  language  of  Van  Leeu- 
wen  is  more  accurate  : — "  which  amount  is  mostly 
desired  for  and  on  behalf  of  the  poor."  But  Voet 
and  the  other  authors,  who  have  treated  this  sub- 
ject more  fully,  dearly  shew  that  the  action  is  no 
other  than  a  <dvil  ■action  for  damages,  to  be  esti' 
mated  strictly  by  the  actual  injury,  and  appro- 
priated in  the  way  most  agreeable  to  the  party 
injured, — ad  injuriae  illatae  aestimationem,  sibi, ' 
et,  si  ita  velit,  pauperibua  applicandv/m.  This  is  a 
precise  definition  of  the  Roman  action;  and  this 
Dutch  action  for  profitahh  amends,  when  it  arose 
out  of  written,  slander,  was  governed  in  the  Courts 
of  Holland,  and  must  be  governed  here,  by  the 
Roman  practice  under  the  Lex  Cornelia  de  inju' 
riis.  The  Lex  Cornelia  was  enacted  by  Sr/lla 
the  Dictator  to  provide  against  all  th«  more  ag- 
gravated injuries.  After  enumerating  certain  real 
injuries  of  a  serious  nature,  it  specified  injwries  to 
character  hy  toriting,  and  it  provided  a  dovhle 
remedy, — a  criminal  action  for  a  public  penalty, 
and  a  civil  action  for  damages  proportioned  to  the 
actual  injury.  The  latter  was  strictly  an  aaio  ex 
delicto,  an  action  arising  from  misconduct  in  the 
legal  sense.  It  therefore  necessarily  supposed  mis- 
conduct in  one  party  and  injury  done  to  the  other; 
The  misconduct  without  the  injury,  or  the  injury 
without  the  misconduct,  gave  no  room  for  the  ac- 
tion. 

Under  this  view  of  the  law,  I  apprehend  that 
the  ultimate  points  to  b« determined  are  only  two: 


18S7.  [  126  ] 

1,  To  what  extent  has  this  letter  hurt  the  feelings 
or  injured  the  reputation  of  the  plaintiff?  and  2, 
Was  it  written  with  a  malicious  intention  to  defame, 
or  with  such  negligent  or  wanton  disregard  of  the 
just  rights  of  the  plaintiff  as  is  held  in  law  equi- 
valent in  its  civil  consequences  to  such  intention  ? 

Whether  the  letter  was  intended  to  be  confi- 
dential,  whether  it  was  calculated  to  be  so  consi- 
dered, whether  the  defendant  had  reason  to  be- 
lieve the  alleaations  it  contained  :  these  are  en- 
quiries that  only  form  a  part  of  the  question  as  to 
his  malice  or  culpable  negligence.  On  the  other 
hand,  whether  the  letter  was  actually  understood 
as  confidential,  and  so  used  ;  whether  the  allega- 
tions ill  it  are  true,  and  whether  their  truth  was 
generally  believed  by  others  before  the  letter  was 
written  :  these  are  enquiries  that  only  form  part 
of  the  question  as  to  the  existence  or  amount  of 
the  injury  sustained.  If  no  injury  has  been  sus- 
tained by  the  plaintiff,  or  if  no  culpable  conduct 
can  be  proved  against  the  defendant,  (taking  the 
word  cul^-iahle,  in  its  legal  sense,)  the  action  must 
be  dismissed  for  we  must  have  hoth  to  justify  us 
in  acceding  to  the  prayer  of  the  plaintiff. 

A  discussion  has  been  raised,  as  to  whether  it 
is  competent  to  plead  the  truth  of  the  libel,  or 
common  fame,  or  the  confidential  nature  of  the 
communication,  in  answer  to  the  present  suit.  I 
have  no  hesitation  in  saying  that  under  the  Lex 
Comielia,  all  these  might  have  been  pleaded  in  the 
civil  action,  but  only  in  as  far  as  they  went  to 
prove*  eitlur  yiijwry  to  the  one  party,  or  miscon- 
duct in  the  other.  Rules  indeed  were  admitted  in 
the  criminal  action,  at  different  periods  in  the 
history  of  the  Law,  which  had  no  place  in 
the  administration  of  the  civil  remedy.  Into  these 
I  conceive  it  quite  unnecessary  to  enter.  The 
doctrine  of  Paulus  on  the  one  hand — eum  qui 
nocentem  in/amavit  non  esse  bonum  equum  ob  earn, 
rem  condemnari,—a,Tid  the  edict  of  Valens  and 
Valentinian,  on  the  other,  which  reprobated  the 
publication  of  defamatory  writings,  even  when 
true,  had  both  exclusive  reference  to  the  criminal 
action.  The  law  of  Gonstantitie,  which  required 
~»   Sic.       '  ' 


[127  1 

at  all,  it  can  only  be  by  'the  Court  in  mitij^ation, 
the  publisher  to  prove  its  trnt-i,  and  declareJ  ne- 
veitheless  that  even  if  the  proof  was  comjiJete,  he 
should  still  suffer  a  certain  degree  of  puaishnient, 
is  kIso  exclusively  applicable  to  the  cr^'minal  re- 
med,!,' ;  End  besides,  though  it  has  been  freque::tly 
cited  by  modern  Jurists,  being  found  only  in  the 
Theodosian  Code,  is  no  part  of  the  Eonian  Law 
of  mcjilera  times.  Upon  the  whole  therefore,  I 
have  no  hesitation  in  my  opinion,  that  by  the  Ro- 
mari  Practice  in  the  civil  action,  all  the  circum- 
stances I  have  enumerated  may  be  pleaded,  but 
only  in  as  far  as  (hey  mitigate  the  misconduct  of 
the  defendant  or  the  injury  done  to  the  plaintiff. 
In  the  criminal  action,  I  incline  to  the  conclusion 
of  FachinoBus,  that  the  truth  of  the  libel  vsas  tiken 
(in  the  time  of  Paulas  at  least,)  as  a piesu,m<jtio 
juris  et  dejiire  of  the  absence  of  maiice  ;  bo  I,  I 
find  no  trace  of  any  such  rule  in  the  civil  action 
at  any  period  in  the  history  of  the  Roman  Law. 

Then  as  to  the  confidential  nature  of  the  com- 
munication, it  is  true  that  by  the  Eoman  Law  cer- 
tain kinds  of  privileged  communication  did  give 
lise  both  in  the  civil  and  the  criminal  action  to  a 
jireswmptio  juris  etdejure  of  the  absence  of  malice; 
and,  on  general  principles,  it  is  also  clear  tiiac  any 
degree  of  confidence  in  a,  communication  does  in 
some  degree  affect  both  the  natural  presumption 
of  malice  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  actual  degree  of 
injury  on  the  other.  But  I  find  no  such  rule  in 
the  Roman  Law  as  that  in  all  communications,  in 
any  degree  confidential,  one  may  plead  the  con- 
fidence as  a, /ull  justijication  in  a  case  of  libel. 

Let  us  come  then  to  the  two  main  questions 
upon  which  all  the  others  depend ;  and  firstly,  I 
do  not  think  it  can  bear  questioa  that  an  injury 
has  been  done,  not  merely  an  injury  to  the  feel- 
ings of  the  plaintiff,  but  a  substantial  injury  to 
his  eharacter  and  prospects.  If  he  had  been  a  mao 
totally  and  notoriously  without  character  before 
the  publication  of  the  libel,  it  is  certain  that  we 
«ou]d  have  given  little  or  no  damages,  because  lit- 
tle or  no  injury  could  have  been  done.  But  it  is  not 
my  individual  opinion,  and  it  is  not  the  opinion  of 
the  Court  that  any  thing  amounting  to  that  ha» 


I8.'?7. 


1897.  C   128  ] 

been  proved.  And  secondly,  as  to  what  in  the 
language  of  the  law  is  termed  the  malice  of  the 
defendant ; — we  must  remember  that  this  is  a  civil, 
not  a  criminal,  action.  It  is  an  action  indeed 
arising  out  of  conduct  reprobated  by  the  law,  but  , 
there  is  a  broad  distinction  between  a  crime  and 
conduct  which  is  simply  illegal.  The  animus  de- 
famandi,  which  mus*  be  proved  in  the  criminal 
action,  i.  e.  the  vindictive  purpose  to  defame, 
which  constitutes  the  criminal  offence,  is  a  deep 
stain  on  the  moral  character  of  the  offender  justly 
visited  by  the  reprobation  of  all  good  men.  But 
the  animus  de/amandi,  which  must  be  proved  ia 
the  civil  action,  includes  not  ©■nly  a  vindictive  pur- 
,pose  to  defame,  bat  also  all  culpable  negligence 
whereby  the  character  of  others  is  affected  and 
may  possibly  amount  rather  to  an  imprudence  than 
to  an  offenee.  I  should  find  difficulty  in  saying 
that  the  conduct  of  the  defendant  has  exhibited 
a  deliberate  and  vindictive  purpose  to  ruin  the 
plaintiff,  or  that  no  better  motive  entered  into  his 
mind  when  he  wrote  the  letter  which  has  given 
rise  to  this  action.  That  in  writing  it  he  was  ac- 
tuated chiefly'by  a  spirit  of  kindness  to  Col.  Ar- 
buthnot  as  his  fellow-countryman  and  a  stranger 
in  the  Colony,  I  think  extremely  probable  ;  and 
that  he  believed  the  plaintiff  to  have  acted  ill,  I 
have  no  manner  of  doubt.  But  it  is  sufficient  to 
the  judgment  in  this  civil  action,  if  the  defendant 
have  shewn  either  a  culpable  negligence  in  form- 
ing his  opinion  on  the  plaintiff's  character  or  a 
culpable  imprudence  in  communicating  that  opi- 
nion to  others.  And  the  Court  is  unanimous  in 
its  conclusion  that  whether  the  plaintiff  be  a  man 
of  purest  conduct  or  not,  the  defendant  was  cul- 
pably imprudent  in  publishing  to  Col.  Arbuthnot, 
however  confidentially,  the  positive  averments 
against  his  character  which  are  contained  in  the 
letter,  if  he  proceeded  upon  no  better  evidence 
than  that  which  he  produced  to  the  District  Judge. 
We  are  bound  to  believe  that  he  produced  the 
best  evidence  in  his  power,  and  we  are  therefore 
of  opinion  that  judgment  of  the  District  Judge 
should  be  affirmed.— No.  12838,  D.  C.  Colombg. 
S.  (Coll.) 


[  129  ] 


1837. 


445. — The  29tli  rule  of  sec.  i.  of  the  Rules  and 
Orders  leaves  to  the  District  Judge  an  entire  diis- 
cretion  as .  to  allowing  or  disallowing  the  cross- 
examination  of  the  litigant  parties  at  any  time 
required. — No.  2153,  D.  C.  Matwa,  (R.) 

Jan.  18,  (R.  J.) 
446- — In  an  acdon  on  a,  Bond,  against  which  the 
defendant  pleaded  Prescription,  an  attempt  hasi 
been  made  on  the  part  of  the  plaintiff  to  prove 
payment  of  interest  within  the  tei-m  prescribed. 
The  Supreme  Court  pronounced  judgment  in  the 
case  as  follows  ; — "  When  a  prmta-fade  legal 
light  is  fully  established,  th«  evidence  in  disproof 
of  that  right  should  be  clear,  consistent  and  per- 
fectly satisfactory.  1,  The  endorsement  on  the 
bond  (of  a  payment  of  interest)  has  been  avowed- 
ly made  by  the  plaintiff ;  it  therefore  signifies  no- 
thing ;  for  he  cannot  create  a  title  for  himself ; 
fi,  the  offer  of  a  compromise  proved  by  two  of  the 
witnesses,  also  signifies  little,  supposing  it  to  have 
been  made  ;  for  every  man  is  at  liberty  to  endea- 
vour to  purchase  bis  tranquillity  at  a  sacrifice ; 
and  this  does  not  change  the  relative  position  of 
the  parties,  if  he  should  fail  in  &€  attempt :  3,  the 
depositions  of  tbe  two  other  witnesses  for  the  plain- 
tiff, to  the  actual  payment  of  interest,  are  more  in 
point;  but  the  witnesses  are  the  plaintiff's  relatives ; 
they  differ  from  the  statement  in  his  Libel  as  to  the 
amount  paid,  and  are  contradicted  by  the  three 
witnesses  for  the  defendant,  who  concur  in  all 
particulars  and  swear  to  a  fuM  satisfaction  of  the 
bond ;  and  4,  when  to  this  is  added  the  fsct  that 
the  bond  was  accompanied  by  a  mortgage,  which 
the  plaintiff  might  have  availed  himself  tff  for  the 
]ast  sdx  years,  but  which  he  never  attempted  to 
carry  into  effect ;  not  only  is  this  a  case  whieli 
the  law  of  Prescription  is  partieularfy  calculated 
to  meet,  but  the  balance  of  probability  oh  the 
testimony  appears  also  in  favour  of  the  defendant ; 
and  the  decree  is  therefore  reversed  with  costs." 
—No.  2416,  D.  C.  CaUwa,  (J.) 

Jan.  25,  (R.  J.) 
447.— On  the  I7th  October  1832  a  writ  of  exe- 
pntioa  nader  a  decree  Nq.  2562,  of  tlje  Sitting 


Examinatiou 
of  Parties. 


Preaorijtion. 


EviJenoe  in 

disproof  of  a 

frima-faoie 

right. 


Oifer  of  a 
Compromise. 


Fiscal's  Sale. 


183T.  [   130   ] 

Magistrate  of  Jaffna,  was  issued  at  the  suit  of 
A.  Mootayan  against  Supen  Winaiy  and  others. 
On  the  26th  Dec.  a  certain  garden  called  ^Seroepoe- 
totem,  in  extent  16  lachams,  seized  under  the 
writ,  was  sold  by  the  Fiscal  to  the  plaintiff  in  No, 
3685  for  the  sum  of  Eds.  30,  the  Fiscal  making 
an  entry  thereof  on  the  Notice  of  Sale,  and  de- 
positing the  purchase-money  {minus  the  charges). 
Claim  and  in  the  Cntcherry.  In  his  return  of  the  sale,  how- 
Opposition,  ever,  he  reported  that  one  Neyna  Sinneicen  had 
after  the  sale  made  a  claim  of  Eds.  50  on  the 
land  in  right  of  otty,  on  a  bond  dated  16th  Aug. 
1821 ;  and  therefore  on  the  1st  June  the  writ 
■was  returned  for  investigation  of  the  claim.  In 
the  meanwhile  however,  on  the  22nd  March  1833> 
a  certificate  of  the  sale  in  conformity  with  the 
above  entry  was  given  to  the  purchaser. 

At  the  investigation  of  the  claim  on  the  7th  June 
1833,  the  claim  of  Neyna  Sinnewen  was  admitted 
by  the  original  debtor  (the  defendant  in  No. 
2562) ;  and  the  following  entries  were  made  in 
the  proceedings  : — "  The  amount  of  the  writ  ap- 
pears by  a  receipt  granted  by  the  plaintiff  therein 
to  the  Fiscal  to  Jiave  been  fully  acquitted ;  and 
the  plaintiff  says  he  has  no  claim  whatever  on 
account  of  the  writ.  There  appears  to  be  in 
deposit  in  the  Cutcherry  the  sum  of  £2.  4s.  &d. 
being  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  the  land  of  which 
the  claimant  lays  claim  to  9  lachams,  as  hav- 
ing been  ottied  to  him  for  £3.  15s,  The  land 
appears  to  have  been  sold, for  £2.  5s.  only,  when 
the  otty-claim  far  exceeded  it.  The  claimant  is 
therefore  entitled^  to  hold  the  land  in  otty  until 
the  otty-condition  be  satisfied."  The  distribution 
of  the  purchase-money  was  thereupon  stopped, 
and  proceedings  were  commenced  by  the  plaintiff 
in  No.  3685,  which  was  an  action  by  him  as  pur- 
chaser at  the  Fiscal's  sale  against  the  otty-holder 
Nej/na  Sinnewen.  In  this  case  the  plaintiff  prov- 
ed the  purchase  by  him  at  the  Fiscal's  sale,  and 
the  refusal  of  the  defendant  {Neyna  Sinnewen)  to 
deliver  the  ground-share  to  him,  whilst  the  de- 
fendant on  his  part  proved  his  possession  for  some 
years  past  and  the  execution  of  the  otty-bond  ; 
and  the  sons  dlf  the  original  debtor,  on  being  ex- 


[131] 


18SB. 


Aniined  as  witnesses,  declared  that  they  had  refus- 
ed to  allow  the  land  to  be  sold  by  the  Fiscal,  hav- 
ing paid  and  satisfied  the  debt  previous  to  the 
sale.  This  statement  was  confirmed  not  only  by 
their  having  continued  in  the  possession  of  the  un- 
ottyed  share  of  the  land,  but  by  the  Piscal's  own 
statement  (as  above)  that  the  amount  of  the  writ 
appeared  by  a  receipt  granted  by  the  plaintiff  to 
.the  Fiscal  to  have  been  fully  acquitted.  And  un- 
der these  circumstances  the  District  Court  annul- 
led the  original  proceedings  by  cancelling  the  Cer- 
tificate of  Sale. 

On  appeal,  the  Supreme  Court  pronounced  the 
following  judgment : — "The  cancellation  of  the 
certificate  may  or  may  not  be  requisite  ;  but 
if  requisite,  it  can  only  take  place  in  presence  of 
all  the  parties  to  these  proceedings,  and  also  in  the 
presence  of  and  after  having  fully  heard  the  Fis- 
cal. But  especially  do  the  interests  of  public  jus- 
tice and  the  public  faith  command  that  the  plain- 
tiff be  first  completely  indemnified  in  principal, 
interest  and  full  costs  at  least.  He  has  purchased 
at  the  bar  of  the  Court,  and  "the  Court  is  bound  to 
see  that  he  be  not  a  sufferer  by  his  confidence  in 
it.  The  only  question  therefore  is  whether  a 
secure  title  can  be  made  out  for  the  plaintiff,  or 
who  shall  indemnify  him,  if  it  cannot :  and  for  the 
purpose  of  determining  this  point  it  is  decreed 
that  the  judgment  of  the  Court  below  be  reversed, 
the  Certificate  having  been,  under  any  circum- 
stances, prematurely  cancelled  and  the  plaintiff 
unduly  condemned  in  costs.  And  it  is  fur- 
ther decreed  that  the  present  case  No.  3685 
and  the  case  No.  2562  be  conjoined,  the  parties  to 
either  being  rendered  parties  to  both ;  and  that 
the  Fiscal,  under  whose  authority  the  sale  was 
effected,  and  who  delivered  the  certificate  of  Sale, 
be  rendered  a  party  intervenient  in  this  case ;  the 
further  hearing  to  take  place  before  the  Supreme 
Court  on  Circuit."— No.  3685,  D.  0.  Jaffna,  (J.) 

Fehruavy  1,  (R.  J.) 

448. — Where  a  party,  a  Dessave,  claimed  the 
power  "  to  turn  out  the  m7?e-holder8  of  his  estate 
whenever  he  pleased,"  the  Supreme  (%urt  refused 


Cancellation  of 

Fisefll's 
Certificate. 


Order  for 

Consolidation 
of  two  Suits. 


Bights  and 
Duties  of 
Landlord!. 


1837. 


[  132  J 


Fine  for 
Appeal. 


Presumption 
in  favour  of 
the  Possessor. 


Proof  to 
establish  a 
Mortgage. 


Action  for 

Libel- 
Defamatory 
words. 


Rules  of 

Practice  and 

Pleading,  in 

Colonial  Coui-ts. 


to  recognize  such  a  pretension  ;  and  as  the  t«nure 
of  the  lands  in  question  was  an  admitted  fact, 
held  that  the  lord  of  the  soil  -was  hound  to  res- 
pect the  rights  of  his  tenants,  whatever  they  may- 
be, as  fuUy  and  completely  as  they  are  to  respect 
his  ;  and  that  even  if  the  lands  were  his  property 
in  fee,  the  moment  the  tenant  had  entered  with 
his  consent,  he  could  no  longer  eject  him  in  the 
ahove  summary  manner. — No.  794,  D.  0.  Ratna- 
poora,  (J.) 

449; — A  decree  of  a  District  Court  against 
which  an  appeal  had  been  taken,  was  affirmed  with 
costs,  and  by.  the  unanimous  opinion  of  the  Court 
and  Assessors,  an  additional  fine  of  five  shillings 
was  adjudged  against  the  appellant  for  frivolous 
and  vexatious  litigation. — No.  731,  D.  C.  Tennto- 
ratchy,  (J.) 

Fib.  11,  (R.  J.  St.) 

450. — A  person  in  possession  is  presumed  to  be 
the  proprietor  until  the  contrary  be  shewn. — No. 
1760,  D.  C.  Matura,  (J.) 

451. — "Where  a  nwrtgage-  is  alleged,  the  deeds 
should  be  produced  and  proved,  or  the  cause  of 
their  non-produotion  satisfactorily  accounted  for;^ 
and  where  no  attempt  of  the  kind  had  been  made, 
but  witnesses  had  only  been  called  as  to  certain 
isolated  statements  of  a  deceased  person.;  Seld 
that  such  testimony  had  been  justly  deemed  un- 
satisfactory by  the  Court  below. — Ibid. 

452. — In  an  action  for  Libel,  the- plaintiff  should 
set  forth  the  immediate  tenor,  if  not  the  exact 
VFords).  of  the  libellous  matter  charged. — No^ 
14321,  D.  C.  Colombo,  N.  (J.). 

453. — There  can  be  no  cpiestion  that  the  Rule* 
and  Regulations  set  down  for  the  guidance  of 
District  Courts  should  be  strictly  observed ;  and 
it  is  advisable  in  all  cases  to  put  an  early  period 
to  frivolous  or  vexatious  litigation.  But  it  was  a 
settled  principle  with  Lord  Stowell,  in  deter- 
mining Admiralty  Appeals  from  the  Colonies, 
not  to  tie  these  Courts  down  to  the  rigid  forms 
of  pleading  or  rules  of  proceeding  adopted  in  the 
Superior  Courts  of  Law ;  but  to  look  to  the  sub- 


[183] 

stantial  merits  of  each  cause,  guarding  at  the 
same  time  against  any  undue  laxity  of  practice, — 
a  maxim,  -which  appears  not  inapplicable  to  the 
proceedings  of  the  District  Courts  in  Ceylon. — 
No.  2191,  D.  C.  Negombo,  (J.) 

454. — In  an  action  (No.  5691)  before  the  Pro- 
vincial Court  of  Jaffna,  commenced  in  May  1832, 
one  Walliammy  and  her  daughters,  as  plaintiffs, 
claimed  by  right  of  inheritance  a  part  of  cer- 
tain lands,  which  they  stated  the  defendants  (her 
brothers  and  sisters,)  unjustly  withheld  from  her. 
The  defendants  in  their  Answer  stated  inter  alia 
that  a  considerable  portion  of  these  lands  had  been 
given  in  otty  to  the  third  defendant,  Mayly,  by 
her  brothers  and  sisters,  including  the  first  plain- 
tiff {Walliammy)' s  husband,  on  a  dowry -bond 
dated  November  1818  ;  which  deed  the  plaintiffs 
in  reply  maintained  to  have  been  forged  for  the 
purpose  of  defrauding  them.  At  the  trial,  it  ap- 
peared in  evidence  that  the  parties  had  ottied  a 
considerable  portion  of  the  lands,  but  that  on  the 
other  hand  there  was  great  reason  to  believe  that 
the  defendants  had  attempted  to  deprive  the  plain- 
tiffs of  their  fair  share  of  the  remainder,  and  that 
the  deed  then  produced  had  been  forged  ;  and  the 
Court  thereupon  caused  it  to  be  cancelled,  and 
decreed  that  the  plaintiffs  were  entitled  to  their 
share  in  the  property  mentioned  in  the  cancel- 
led Bond,  (which  share  by  the  death  of  the 
fourth  defendant  without  issue,  had  in  the  mean- 
time become  augmented  to  one-fourth.)  In  a 
Bubsequent  action  (No.  608)  the  children  of  the 
late  Mayly  (the  third  defendant  in  the  former 
suit,)  claimed  as  against  their  co-heirs,  the  former 
joint  defendants  and  plaintiffs  and  their  repre- 
sentatives, the  amount  of  the  very  deed  thus  can- 
celled, and  introduced  into  their  action  as  addi- 
tional defendants  the  two  principal  witnesses  in 
the  former  case,  who,  they  alleged,  had  given  un- 
true evidence  to  their  prejudice.  They  further 
stated  that  the  then  Governor  had,  under  the 
former  system,  made  an  order  that  the  case  No. 
S691  should  be  heard  de  novo,  but  that  they  were 
unable  to  obtain. a  cppy  of  the  direction  to  that 


Action  on  a 

Deed,  which 

liad  been, 

proved  to  lie  a 

forgerj-  and 
Lccn  cancelled. 


Ifi37. 


[134] 


Hes  Judicata. 
KtTect  of  an 
Order  for 
Re-heai-ing. 


A  party  to  a 
iVaudnlent  deed 
estopped  from 
disputing  tlie 
rights  accruing 
under  it. 


effect.  This  case  having  come  in  appeal,  the 
Supreme  Court  pronounced  judgment  in  the  fol- 
lowing terms ; — "  It  is  perfectly  clear  that  the 
action  in  its  present  shape  cannot  be  maintained 
against  the  3,  4,  5  and  6th  defendants  (the  plain- 
tiffs and  witnesses  in  the  former  case,)  as  no  proof 
has  been  tendered  of  the  order  for  rehearing  of 
No.  6691,  and  if  it  had  been,  that  very  circum- 
stance would  render  a  second  action  unnecessary. 
It  appears  indeed  that  the  joint  defendants  to  the 
former  suit  (the  present  first  and  second  defend- 
ants,) who  then  maintained  the  validity  of  the 
deed,  now  deny  it;  and  it  cannot  be  doubted 
that  whether  that  deed  be  true  or  forged,  all  the 
defendants  in  that  suit  equally  declared  it  true. 
The  decree  in  No.  5691  is  final  and  irreversible, 
inasmuch  as  related  to  the  full  one-fourth  share  of 
the  then  plaintiffs  (the  present  third  and  fourth  de- 
fendants,) and  the  bond  was  cancelled  with  refer- 
ence to  them.  But  the  other  parties  claimed  no- 
thing at  the  time  from  the  then  third  defendant 
(Mayli/,)  and  nothing  could  therefore  be  awarded. 
There  is  reason  to  conjecture  from  the  evidence 
and  the  ancient  possession  of  the  plaintiffs  that  they 
had  really  once  possessed  an  otty-deed,  which 
being  lost,  they  could  contrive  no  better  expedi- 
ent than  to  draw  up  a  new"  one.  This  as  regards  ; 
the  then  plaintiffs  was  most  justly  repi'obated  by 
the  Court,  which  with  equal  justice  awarded  them 
their  full  share  of  the  estate  and  cancelled  so  frau- 
dulent a  document ;  but  as  regards  fraud  or  no 
fraud  on  the  part  of  the  other  defendants,  they  , 
were  all  parties  to  it  and  fully  acknowledged  the 
deed.  The  parties  therefore  stand  thus  ; — the 
otty-deed  is  invalid  as  regards  the  plaintiffs  in  No. 
5691  ;  but  it  continues  in  full  force  with  respect 
to  all  the  then  defendants  in  regulating  their 
rights  as  against  each  other.  The  decree  in  No. 
608  dismissing  the  plaintiff's  claim,  is  therefore  af- 
firmed with  respect  to  the  3,4,5,and 6th defendants,  ,j 
and  reversed  as  to  the  1st  and  2nd  defendants; 
and  the  plaintiffs  are  allowed  to  resume  posees- 
sion  of  that  portion,  if  any,  of  the  lands,  whicli 
the  1st  and  Snd  defendants h-ave  admitted  tohare 
been  ottied  by  themselves  to  their  sister  Mayiif 


135  J 


lajt 


in  dower  and  of  whicli  they  have  since  assumed 
possession  tinder  the  decree  in  No.  5691,  that  de- 
cree being  in  this  respect  foreign  to  them." — No. 
608,  D.  C.  Tenmoratchy,  (J.) 

455. — Where  it  appeared  that  the  plaintiff  in 
a  suit  had  been  a  party  to  a  previous  suit  against 
the  same  defendant  and  in  respect  of  the  same 
•ubject-matter ;  but  that  such  former  suit  had 
been  conducted  by  B,  the  first  plaintiff  therein, 
"  for  himself  and  on  behalf  of  his  nephevi?  A.,"  the 
Supreme  Court  thought  it  requisite  to  ascertain 
whether  A.,  the  present  plaintiff,  was  really  a  mi- 
nor at  the  time,  and  if  so,  what  authority  B.  poss- 
essed to  represent  him  ;  and  referred  back  the  case 
for  that  purpose. — No.  1 806,  D.C.  Tenmoratchy,  (J.) 

Feh.  13,  (R.  J.  St.) 

456. — Where  a  party  had  in  the  first  instance 
neglected  to  file  certain  criminal  proceedings  or  to 
produce  further  evidence  in  support  of  his  case, 
the  Supreme  Court  in  appeal  considered  that  it 
would  be  of  inconvenient  example  to  send  back 
the  case  directing  the  District  Judge  to  admit 
such  proceedings  or  to  hear  further  evidence  there- 
in, the  neglect  not  appearing  to  be  attributable  to 
the  District  Judge  himself.— No.  665,  D.  C.  Ne- 
t/ombo,  (R.) 

457. — In  a  case  in  appeal  from  Manar,  where- 
in it  had  been  ordered  that  evidence  should  be 
heard  before  the  Supreme  Court,*  Rough,  C.  J. 
having,  during  the  hearing  of  the  case,  proposed 
to  withdraw,  Stoddabt,  J.  objected  to  the  case 
being  heard  in  the  absence  of  the  Chief  Justice, 
even  with  the  consent  of  parties,  as  being  in  his  opi- 
nion a  course  contrary  to  the  terms  of  the  Charter 
of  1833.  He  also  objected  generally,  for  the  same 
reason,  to  any  case  from  a  District  Court  within 
the  boundaries  of  the  circuits  being  heard  at  Co- 
lombo otherwise  than  by  the  Judges  collectively. 
But  it  was  determined  by  the  Chief  Justice  and 
Jbbemie  J.,  (being  a  majority  of  the  Court,)  that 
by  the  practice  all  cases  appealed  and  delivered 
into  the  Registry  or  in  the  Registry  whilst  the 


Former  decree. 
Authority  of  a 
party  to  sue  on 

behalf  of 

another. 


^lo^l-prod^lction 

of  evidi'nce  by 

Appellant — 

no  grouuil  for  4 

NevT  Trial. 


Constitution 

of  the  Supreme 

Court. 


Civil 
Jurisdiction 
at  Colombo. 


■  ai.  Decemljej',  1836. 


]P37. 


[136] 


Y.j-w  of  Poverty 

— does  not 

excuse  the 

perfoniianoe  of 

duties  under- 

t^ikeu. 


Fine  for 

vexatious 

appeal. 


Petition  to 

defend  in 

foi-ma  pauperis. 


Evidence  of  a 

good  primaT 

facie  defence. 


Suit  by  the 
Government  of 
Ceylon,  cannot 
be  entertained 


Court  was  collective,  might  be  heard  by  any  Judge 
of  the  Supreme  Court,  and  decided  by  him  sing- 
ly, when  he  should  think  it  unnecessary  to  con- 
sult the  Court  collectively,  and  that  this  practice, 
not  being  in  the  opinion  of  the  majority  inconsis- 
tent with  the  construction  of  the  Charter  establish- 
ed by  usage,  should  be  adhered  to  for  the  time  ; 
reserving  for  the  consideration  of  the  Court  the 
re^asion  of  its  rules  on  the  subject.  The  Chief 
Justice  thereupon  withdrew,  the  parties  consent- 
ing to  the  case  being  tried  before  the  two  remain- 
ing Judges,  who  were  to  request  the  opinion  and 
advice  of  the  Chief  Justice  on  any  point  which  in 
their  judgment  might  require  his  aid.— No.  84, 
D.  C.  Manar. 

Feb.  20. 

458.^-The  vow  of  poverty  taken  by  a  Buddhist 
Priest,  according  to  the  precepts  of  his  religion, 
may  be  a  reason  for  declining  altogether  to  assume 
possession  of  property ;  but  it  can  be  none  for 
refusing  to  fulfil  all  the  obligations  of  a  Legatee, 
if  he  accepts  the  legacy. — No.  21,  B.,  D.  CAm^: 
MaiMfodde.  (J.) 

Feb.  23. 

459. — The  Supreme  Court  having  affirmed  a 
decree  which  had  been  appealed  against  on  frivol- 
ous grounds,  decreed  that  a  fine  of  three  shillings 
should  be  levied  on  the  Appellant  for  vexations 
litigation.— No.  13,315,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (J.) 

460 — Where  a  party  who  applied  to  be  allow- 
lowed  to  defend  in  fonria  pauperis,  produced  two 
deeds,  one  of  which  appeared  very  new,  whilst  the 
other  was  an  old  deed  ;  Seld  that  the  fact  of  un- 
doubted possession,  coupled  with  the  deeds,  wm  in 
itself  a  good  prima  facie  defence,  and  that  !f  it 
were  true  that  the  defendant  bad  been  in  undis- 
turbed possession  of  the  property  in  dispute  for 
any  length  of  time,  say  one  year,  he  should  be  al- 
lowed to  defend  in  forma  pauperis. — No.  1277, 
D.  0.  Wadimaratchy ,  (J.) 

461. — In  a  case  from  Eatnapoora,  wherein  ^ 
Government  of  Ceylon  was  plaintiff,  and -vdiicli 
had  been  tried  by  a  Judge,  who  was  also  the 


[137] 


1687. 


A  New  Trial, 
granted,  in  order 
to  allow  a  party 
to  produce  evi- 
dence against 
Prescription. 


Action  on  &» 

Agreement 

respecting  thft 

Pearl-Pishery. 


Acting  Government  Agent  of  Rathapoora,  the   ty  a  Judge,  who 
Supreme  Court  ordered    "that  as  the  District   '"^"^gent^*""' 
Judge  had  no  jurisdiction,  being  also  Acting  Go- 
vernment Agent  and  the  plaintiff  therein,  the  case 
.  shouldbe  referred  to  the  District  Court  ofCaltura." 
—No.  1220,  D.  C.  Ratnapoora,  (J.) 

462. — The  Court  below  having  dismissed  a  claim 
as  prescribed  by  the  lapse  of  a  year,  the  plaintiff 
appealed  against  the  decree  on  the  ground  that  the 
defendant  had  made  a  promise  of  payment  within 
the  year,  though  no  allegation  of  such  promise  had 
been  made  previous  to  the  petition  of  appeal. 
The  Supreme  Court  however  set  aside  the  decree 
of  the  Court  below  and  allowed  the  plaintiff  an 
opportunity  of  proving  such  promise,  on  payment 
of  all  the  costs  previously  incurred. — No.  2728, 
D.  C.  Galle,  (J.) 

March  1,  (J.  St.) 

463. — In  an  action  for  damages  for  the  breach 
of  an  engagement  for  the  purchase  of  the  Pearl 
Fishery  of  Condatchy  for  the  year  1829,  it  ap- 
peared that  in  December  1828  the  plaintiffs  had 
entered'  into  an  Agreement  with  certain  parties 
in  India,  whom  he  stated  to  be  the  partners  of  the 
defendants,  by  which,  in  the  event  of  his  taking 
the  rent  of  the  pearl-fishery  from  Government, 
they  bound  themselves  for  a  quarter  of  that  rent, 
and  agreed  to  deposit  £4,700  in  ready  money,  and 
that  when  the  dhoneys  for  the  quarter-share  should 
be  delivered  to  them  they  would  give  up  the  above 
deposit  and  pay  the  remaining  price  of  the  quar- 
ter-share as  the  instalments  became  due.  This 
instrument  further  provided  that  if  the  plaintiff 
should  engage  as  partner  with  others  without 
purchasing  the  rent  (in  other  words  should  be- 
come an  under-purchaser  from  the  contractor,) 
the  defts.  were  to  have  a  fourth  of  his  share,  what- 
ever it  might  be  ;  and  that  the  £4,700  to  be  paid 
by  them  should  first  be  apphed  to  the  payment 
of  their  share  of  the  deposit,  and  next,  together 
with  the  profits,  to  the  payment  of  the  remaining 
instalments  ;  and  further  that,  whether  the  plain- 
tiff took  the  whole  or  the  half  of  the  rent  (provid- 
■'ed  it  was  as  contractor,)  they  would  pay  the 


I8ST.  [  138  "] 

£4,700;  and  that  in  case  the  plaintiff  tooi  a 
quarter  or  an  eighth  of  the  rent,  the  £4,700  were  to 
be  paid  back.  The  parties  in  India,  having  signed 
this  agreement  {exhibit  A.),  gave  the  plaintiff,  aa 
"  ready  money,"  a  draft  in  favor  of  the  defendants,^ 
native  merchants  in  Ceylon. 

Having  arrived  in  Colombo  in  January  1829, 
the  plaintiff  entered  into  an  agreement  {exhibit 
B,)  with  Goomarasamy  and  Moottooiomm/  that  tha 
tender  to  Government  should  be  made  by  Moot- 
toosamy,  and  that  he  should  have  two-eighths, 
Coomarasamy  one-eighth,  and  tire  plaintiff  the  re- 
maining three-eighths  ;  and  the  rent  was  accord- 
ingly obtained  on  this  tender  for  £45,100 ;  of 
•which  £9,020  were  to  be  deposited  forthwith,  and 
the  remainder  paid  in  instalments.  The  contract 
■with  Government  being  entered  into  by  Moottoosa- 
my  and  one  Akady  Marcar,  who  was  known  to  all 
the  parties  as  the  mere  agent  of  the  plaintiff. 

In  the  meantime  the  plaintiff  had  presented  th« 
draft  for  £4,700  to  the  defendants,  who  gave  him 
in  exchange,  and  on  receiving  from  him  a  receipt 
in  fuU  for  the  draft,  an  ola  document,  in  the  foria 
of  a  checque  or-  letter  of  credit  drawn  on  Moottoo- 
eamy  at  the-  fiAery ;  which  however  Moottoosa- 
my  declined  to  honor  when  presented  to  him. 

The  fishery  then  proceeded,  but  in  consequeno* 
©f  the  dishonour  of  the  draft,  the  plaintiff's  share 
was  reduced  from  five-eighths  to,  one  fourth ;  where- 
upon the  plaintiff  brought  his,  action  against  th« 
defendants,  averring  that  they  were  partners  with 
the  parties  to  the  agreement  A.,  and  that  he  had 
suffered  special  damages  to  the  amount  of  the 
above  mentioned  difference.  To  this  action  th» 
defendants  pleaded  that  the  agreensjent  was  not 
mutual,  that  they  had  received  no  consideration, 
that  the  plaintiff  had  not  performed  his  part  of  the 
condition,  and  was  neither  actually  nor  potentially 
the  owner  of  the  article  mentioned  to  be  sold  by 
him  by  the  agreement ;  that  the  defendants  had  on 
their  part  compli«d  with  the  stipulated  conditions, 
having  given  a  bill  of  exchange  which  had  been 
duly  accepted  and  paid ;  nor  had  any  notice  been 
given  to  the  contrary,  nor  any  protest  made  for 
&on-acceptaii.ce  or  non-payment ;  that  the  plaintiff' 


tl39] 


188T. 


had  waived  his  agreement,  and  that  no  loss  had 
accrued  to  him  as  no  profits  had  arisen  from  the 
fishery. 

The  Supreme  Court,  after  hearing  evidence 
themselves,  gave  judgment  as  to  the  facts,— that 
the  defendants  and  the  parties  to  the  agreement 
of  December  1828  were  partners,— that  they  were 
.  aware  of  the  rent  which  the  plaintiff  was  to  receiV/S 
under  the  agreement  B, — that  the  India-draft  for 
£4,700  had  never  been  paid,  having  been  only 
discharged  by  the  partners  at  Colombo  by  means  of 
9,  checque  subseqxiently  dishonored  in  their  pre* 
sence  and  at  their  request, — ^that  thete  had  been  no 
waiver  of  the  agreement  on  the  part  of  the  plain- 
.tiff, — and  that  damages  did  accrue  to  the  plaintiff 
from  such  non-payment  to  the  extent  of  £2,000.^ 

And  as  to  the  points  of  law,  the  Court  pro- 
nounced judgment  as  follows  :— "  The  objection 
as  to  the  want  of  Mutuahty  arises  from  the  circum- 
stance of  the  plaintiff's  signature  not  being  at- 
tached to  the  agreement  A.,  and  from  its  being  in 
language  an  obligation  to  him  only,  and  not  also 
one  from  him  to  the  defendants.  This  however 
is  a  very  ancient  commercial  practice  well  recog- 
nized not  only  in  India  but  on  the  Continent  of 
Europe.  In  mutual  contracts,  two  parties,  in- 
stead of  entering  into  joint  articles  of  agreement 
•which  they  both  sign,  each  receiving  a  copy,  draw 
up  and  sign  singly  separate  instruments,  in  which 
•each  sets  forth  the  nature  and  condition  of  his  ob- 
ligation to  the  other.  They  then  exchange  these 
instruments,  and  thus  each  obligee  becomes  the 
holder  of  his  obligor's  acknowledgment  or  obliga- 
-tien.  Or  sometimes,  now  indeed  more  frequently, 
the  instruments  are  counterparts  of  each  Other, 
though  they  each  bear  the  signature  but  of  one. 
Yet  the  mutuality  equally  exists  in  either  ease, 
and  the  circumstance  of  one  party  holding  the  other 
contracting  party's  signature  establishes  a  pre- 
tunvptie  juris,  that  that  other  party  has  the  counter- 
part bearing  his.  They  therefore  bear  the  shape 
rather  of  English  bonds  with  the  conditions  set 
forth  by  each  obligor,  on  which  they  respectively 
stipulate  that  their  obligation  »hBll  be  binding  or 
Toid. 


Mataality  in  an 
Agreement  may 
be  presumed, 
though  the  de- 
fendant has  not 
signed  it. 


1837. 


[  140] 


Mutua]  consent 
—a  sufficient 
eonBideration. 


Objection  that 

the  plaintiif  was 

not  at  the  time 

the  owner  of 

the  article 

•ontracted  to  he 

delivered. 


Damages — 
A  Court  cannot 

award  more 
ihan  is  claimed, 
in  the  absence 
of  a  prayer  for 
General  Relief. 


Xttachment 

against  an 

Officer  of  the 

Court. 


"  As  to  the  want  of  a  consideration,' — what  is 
the  nature  of  the  contract?  It  is  a  contract  of  that 
class  in  which  the  mutual  consent  of  the  parties  is 
sufficient  to  render  the  agreement  ohligatory  on 
both, — in  which,  as  in  Articles  of  Partnership,  it 
is  a  sufficient  consideration  that  the  party  did  and 
was  willing  to  do  -all  that  he  had  undertaken  to 
•do,  and  that  he  has  done  nothing  which  could  put 
this  out  of  his  power. 

"  As  to  the  objection  that  the  plaintifl  was  not 
•  actually  or  potentially'  the  owner  of  the  articl* 
mentioned,  this  as  well  as  the  further  question, 
whether  if  it  were  bo,  this  was  not  owing  to  the 
defendant's  breach  of  promise,  is  determined  in 
the  plaintiff's  favour  by  the  evidence  adduced  in 
the  case,  that  the  -defendants  throughout  the  trans- 
action well  knew  the  portion  which  the  plaintiff 
was  to  receive  from  the  rent  under  the  agreement 
B. 

"  Then  as  to  th«  damages, — special  damages 
are  alone  demanded  by  the  plaintiff,  no  claim 
being  made  for  damages  generally  ;  and  though 
this  Court  would  not  tie  down  parties,  on  occa- 
sions of  this  Mnd,  to  the  strict  rules  of  European 
practice,  and  would  be  prepared  to  afford  them 
every  relief  against  mere  formal  irregularities ;  yet 
it  cannot  of  itself  consent  to  infringe  settled  prin- 
ciples by  awarding  uUra  petita,  there  not  being 
in  the  Libel  or  in  the  plaintiff's  Petition  of  Ap- 
peal even  a  prayer  for  '  general  relief.'  The  decree 
of  the  Court  therefore  is  that  the  defendants  do 
pay  to  the  plaintiff  Two  thousand  pounds  ster- 
ling and  costs  ;  and  that  the  counter -part  of  exhi- 
bit A.  in  the  hands  of  the  defendants,  be  cancel- 
led."—No.  84,  D.  0.  Manar,  (J.  St.) 

464. — An  attachment  against  an  Officer  of  the 
Court,  though  regular  and  admissible  in  cases  of 
negligence  or  disobedience,  should  only  be  re- 
sorted to  with  caution.  An  application  for  an  at- 
tachment is  an  appeal  to  the  discretion  of  the  Court, 
and  though  that  discretion  may  be  overrule,d  by  the 
Supreme  Court,  there  must  be  strong  grounds  for 
doing  BO.~ISfo.  3252,  D.  0.  GaUe,  (J.) 


tl41  ] 


IBST. 


Mar.  2. 
465. — ^Wli«re  it  appeared  on  an  appeal  (No. 
2841)  from  the  District  Court  of  Nogombo,  that 
another  suit  (No.  12939)  was  pending  before  the 
District  Court  of  Colombo,  North,  between  the 
game  parties  (who  were  both  resident  in  the  Dis- 
trict of  Negombo,)  and  in  respect  of  the  same 
cause  of  action,  and  that  neither  of  the  cases  had 
proceeded  far  ;  the  Supreme  Court  by  a  decree, 
pronounced  in  No.  2,841,  referred  both  the  cases 
for  decison  to  the  District  Court  of  Negombo,  and 
directed  a  notification  to  that  effect  to  be  made  to 
the  District  Court  of  Colombo,  North. — No.  2841, 
D.  C.  Negowho,  (J.) 

466. — In  an  action  to  recover  certain  lands 
from  the  defendant,  the  defendant  asserted  his 
right  to  them  under  a  deed  of  gift  previously 
granted  to  him  by  the  plaintiff's  vendor.  The 
Supreme  Court,  after  reading  the  evidence,  set 
aside  the  deed,  and  pronounced  the  following 
judgment : — "  Though  the  deed  in  favor  of  the 
defendant  is  set  aside,  the  Court  can  scarcely  pro- 
nounce it  a  forgery  ;  but  it  is  convinced  that  on 
signing  the  deed,  the  donor's  impression  was  that 
he  was  to  be  supported  for  life ;  and  that  he  was  not 
duly  supported  is  sufficiently  proved.  But  in  with- 
drawing the  land  from  the  defendant,  he  is  enti- 
tled to  recover  from  the  plaintiff  all  that  he  actu- 
ally paid  for  the  deceased  ;  the  profits  of  the  land 
on  the  one  side  and  the  maintenance  of  the  deceas- 
ed whilst  he  resided  at  the  defendant's,  on  the 
other,  being  compensated." — No.  23,  D.  C.  Ma- 
telle,  (J.) 

467. — Where  the  evidence  is  clear  as  between 
the  plaintiff  and  defendant,  the  Court  cannot  re- 
fuse to  decide  on  the  ownership  to  the  property 
in  dispute  between  them,  merely  because  there  ia 
a  third  person  who  also  claims  it ;  for  such  a  third 
person  cannot  be  prejudiced  by  proceedings  in  a 
Buit  to  which  he  is  not  a  party. — No.  2323,  D.  C. 
Maiwra,  (J.) 

468. — ^Where  a  party  has  taken  no  appeal 
against  a  decree,  it  becomes  final  and  irreversible. 
—No.  1966,  D.  C.  Malma,  (J.) 


Transfer  of  a 
case  commenc- 
ed in  a  wrong; 
Court. 


Cancellation  of 

a  Deed  of  Gift 

signed  under  t 

wrong 

impression. 


Failure  of 
consideration. 


Compensatioa 

of  Profits  and 

Expenses, 


Judgment  as 
between  a 

a  plaintiff  and 
defendant. 

Third  parties. 


Hes  Judicata, 
in  the  absenca 
of  au  Appeal. 


1837. 


[142] 


Miiiistei's  of 

Beligion, 
calumnious 
charges  by. 


Orde*  for  the 
return  of  the 
proceedings, 
upon  Petition 
for  leave  to 
appeal  to  the 
Privy  Council. 


Injunction 
Against  a  Sale — 
granted  by  the 
Supreme  Court. 


A  Dist.  Judge 
bound  to  recoxd 


469. — Though  the  Ministers  of  every  Religion 
are  upheld  by  Law  in  exercising  a  certain  dis- 
cipline and  controul  over  their  congregations,  they 
are  not  the  less  amenable  to  justice,  if,  on  pre- 
tence of  such  controul,  they  should  wantonly  ia- 
dulge  in  calumnious  charges  or  imputations.— No. 
1086,  D.  0.  Matura,  (J.) 

Mar.  15,  (R.  St.) 

■470. — Petitions  for  leave  to  appeal  to  the  King 
in  Privy  Council,  under  cl.  62  of  the  Charter, 
were  presented  in  two  cases ;  and  it  was  there- 
upon ordered  that  the  proceedings  be  returned  to 
the  Supreme  Court,  in  order  that  the  decrees  in 
the  said  cases,  together  with  the  proceedings  had 
in  the  Court  below,  might  be  brought  by  way  of 
Review  before  all  the  Judges  collectively  at  Go« 
lombo.— No.  1083  and  No.  84,  D.  C>  Manar. 

April  19. 
471. — H.  Staphs,  Proctor,  filed  a  Petition  of  D. 
P.  WijesekereHaminey,  stating  "  that  her  late  hus- 
band had  beeU  for  the  past  twenty  years  and  up- 
wards in  the  legal  possession  of  a  certain  garden 
called  Datoettigaha-caeroendoiewatte,  situated  in 
the  village  Lianegay -w,idle  under  the  Raygam: 
patte  of  the  Aloetcoer  Corle  ;  and  that  the  Agent 
of  Government  had  advertised  the  said  garden  fo* 
sale  on  the  pretext,  as  the  petitioner  believed,  of 
Its  being  a  Cinnamon^garden,  the  property  of  Qo- 
vernment."  And  two  other  parties  severally  ap- 
pearing in  person  being  sworn  "  that  to  the  best 
of  their  knowledge  the  contents  of  the  said  Peti- 
tion, which  had  been  duly  explained  to  them,  were 
true  ;"  Mr.  /S<apfe«  thereupon  moved  that  "an  in- 
junction might  issue  to  desist  from  selling  the  said 
land  until  the  decision  of  any  suit  which  the  GO'* 
vernment  or  its  Agent  might  think  proper  to  in-" 
Btitute,  directed  to  the  Agent  of  Government  for 
the  Western  Province  and  his  Assistant  or  Assist" 
»nts  and  all  other  persons  acting  under  his  or  their 
authority,"  and  it  was  ordered  accordingly. — Pet, 
of  D.  F.  Wijesekere  Haminey,  (R.) 

April  22,  (R.  J.  St.) 
472. — A  District  Judge  is  not  entitled  to  refuse 
any  evideuce  offered  in  Ms  Court  witkout  record* 


[143] 


1887. 


ing  the  refusal  and  its  reasona.  And  where  the 
Supreme  Court  on  Circuit  had  decided  a  case  in 
Appeal,  and  it  subsequently  appeared  on  a  state- 
ment made  by  the  District  Judge,  that  evidence 
had  been  offered  but  had  not  been  taken  down  by 
the  District  Judge,  who  thought  it  unnecessary, 
but  made  no  entry  to  that  effect  in  the  record,  the 
Judges  sitting  collectively  at  Colombo  determin- 
ed that  under  these  circumstances,  the  Court  con- 
sidering the  record  imperfect,  the  judgment  in  ap- 
peal which  had  proceeded  on  that  record  was  not 
to  be  held  final  on  the  question  under  litigation ,' 
«,nd  thereupon  remitted  the  case  to  the  District 
Court,  with  directions  to  take  the  evidence  pre- 
viously offered  and  to  report  accordingly  so  as  to 
enable  the  Supreme  Court  to  proceed  to  a  review 
of  the  matter  on  a  record  properly  closed.* — No. 
2256,  D.  C.  Islands,  (Coll.) 

473. — On  an  application  by  a  plaintiff  in  res- 
pect of  a  former  decree,  the  defendant  by  his 
Answer  admitted  the  decree,  and  that  he  had  not 
paid  anything  upon  the  same,  having  appealed 
against  that  decree,  and  no  decision  in  Appeal 
having  been  made  known,  to  him.  The  decision 
being  subsequently  produced ;  Held,  that  the  de- 
fendant, after  a  distinct  admission  that  he  had  not 
paid  the  costs  awarded,  could  not  be  allowed  to 
plead  Prescription,  which  in  matters  of  debt  was 
only  founded  on  a  presumptionof  payment. — No. 
1926.  D.  O.  Matura,  (J.) 

■474. — The  rule  24  of  sec.  i.  of  the  Rules  and 
Orders  should  be  taken  in  conjunction  with  rule 
28,  which  provides  as  to  eases  where  further  evi- 
dence may  be  requisite.  Where  there  had  been 
an  unaccountable  contradiction  between  the  two 
subscribing  witnesses  of  the  same  bond ;  Held  that 
it  w*  a  case  in  which  the  discretion  allowed  by 
that  rule  might  be  beneficially  exercised. — No. 
3536,  D.  C.  Pvaam,  (J.) 

April  26,  (J.  St.) 

475. — By  an  Agreement  executed  in  October 
1825,  Christina  Bias  (the  first  defendant)  pro- 


reasons  fo* 

rejection  of 

evidence. 


A  judgment  in 

appeal  on  an 

imperfect 

record,  held  not 

final. 


Prescription, 
not  pleadable 

E^ter  an 

admission  of 

the  debt. 


Farther 
evidence,  undeF 
rule  %i,  dec.  i. 


Agreements  for 

transfer  of  landL 

Waiver. 


•  Sea  Circ.  afin.  Northern  Circ.  19.  Jan.  183.7. 


1837.  [   144   ] 

mised  that  on  the  plaintiff  marrying  her  daughter 
Catherina,  he  should  receive  in  dowry,  two 
months  after  the  marrige,  "  one-third  part  of  her 
house  and  garden  in  which  she  was  then  residing ;" 
and  that  as  the  father  of  the  plaintiff  had  under- 
taken to  pay  Rds.  400,  being  the  value  of  the  re- 
maining two-thirds,  she  consented  to  the  plain- 
tiff's taking  possession  of  the  whole.  The  docu- 
ments was  signed  by  Christina  Dias  only,  and 
there  was  no  signature  or  document  of  the  plain- 
tiff's father. 

Shortly  afterwards,  the  plaintiff  married  Ca- 
therina. 

In  October  1828,  the  first  defendant  married 
off  another  of  her  daughters,  Magdelena,  to  Casper 
Casy  Chetty  (the  Intervenient ;)  and  on  that  oc- 
casion by  an  agreement  entered  into  between  the 
mother,  the  daughter,  and  the  intended  husband, 
it  was  covenanted  that  the  mother  should  give 
this  daughter  one -third  of  the  same  house  and 
garden  or  the  value  thereof  Rds.  200,  and  which 
house  and  garden  were  stated  to  be  the  property 
of  the  defendant. 

In  April  1833,  she  married  off  a  third  daugh- 
ter to  the  second  defendant,  and  similarly  promis- 
ed him  "  a  third  of  the  garden  belonging  to  her 
equally  with  her  two  other  daughters  ;  and  furr 
thev,  that  after  her  death,  the  second  defendant 
should  receive  a  third  of  the  house  also,  and  that 
until  such  time,  he  should  have  the  right  of  dwel- 
ling therein." 

Notwithstanding  the  two  last  engagements,  the 
first  defendafit  in  July  1834  transferred  the  whole 
house  to  the  plaintiff  in  furtherance  of  the  Agree- 
ment of  October  1825  ;  and  in  October  1834,  the 
plaintiff  brought  his  action  against  the  mother  and 
the  husband  of  the  third  daughter  to  eject  the 
latter  from  the  house,  or  for  the  recovery  of  da- 
mages as  against  jjoth  of  them  ;  and  to  this  suit 
Casper  Casy  Chetty,  the  husband  of  the  second 
daughter,  was  made  an  Intervenient. 

The  Court  below,  after  hearing  evidence,  au- 
thorised the  ejectment,  and  confirmed  the  plain- 
tiff in  the  possession  of  the  house.  But  on  appefj, 
the  Supreme  Court  held  that  it  was  dear  from 


[  145  ] 


issr. 


the  agreements  themselves,   (the  two  latter  being 
admitted  to   have   been   entered  into   with   the 
plaintiff's  knowledge,)  that  the  pa:rties  never  con- 
ei'dered  the  first  agreement  of  1825  (in  favor  of 
the  plaintiff)  as  a  complete  and  final  transfer  ;  an5 
•per  Jeremie  J., — ■"  If  further  evidence  were  re- 
qaiired,  it  would  be  found  ill  the  evidence  of  the' 
plaintiff  himself,    who   admits   that  about  three 
years  ago,  he,  at  the  request  of  his  mother-in-law, 
got  a  Surveyor  to  divide  the  garden  iAto  three 
parts,  on  which'  occasion  it  was  not  determined' 
which  share  should  go  to'  either  party ;  and  that 
a  second  Surveyor  was  afterwards  called  at  the 
request  of  the  second  defendant,  to  rectify  the' 
line  drawn  by  the  first;    and'  that  two  months 
after  the  intervenient's  marriage,  he  demanded' 
from  the  plaintiff  Eds.   200'  as  his  share  of  the 
valiie  of  the  house  and  garden,  but  receiving  otlly 
Rds.  150,  returned  it  sstyiag  that  he  would  noC 
accept  a  part ;  which   shows  not  only  that  the 
house  and  garden  were  not  then  paid  for,-  but  thdfr 
the  plaintiff  refused  to  avail  himself  of  the'  alter- 
native in  his  favour  in  the  intervenient's  marri- 
age-contract.     It  is  also  established  that  imme- 
diately after  the  marriage  of  the  second  defendant 
and  the  intervenient,  they  each  took  possession  of 
a  portion   of  the    estate.     Under  these   circnm- 
Btances  the  Court  cannot  but  consider  that  the' 
plaintiff  has    entirely  waived  his  right  of  pre- 
emption,  fir'st  by  his  own  acts,  which  are  incon- 
Bistent  vntli  his  present  claim  to  the  proprietor- 
ship, and  secondly  by  lapse  of  time   alone  ;  for 
without   af&xing   a/  positive  limit;    which   must 
depend  much  upon  circumstances,  to  the  period 
within  which  a  party  may  claim  the  specific  per- 
formance of  a  prospective  stipulation,  nine  years' 
forbea:rance  must  under  nearly  any  circumstances 
be  considered  in  itself  as  amounting  to  an  abani-- 
donment.     Nor  can  the  temporary  possession  and 
other  points  alleged  by  the  plaintiff  to  shew  a  de 
facto  transfer  with   retention    of  possession   (all 
which  may  be  explained  in  various  ways  consis- 
tently    with  the  rights  of  the    parties,)    weigh 
against  the  conclusions  necessarily   drawn  from 
the  ]^aintiff'3'0'WH  proceedings^  which  a*^  dir^ctlj^' 


Claim  of- 

specific 

performance, 

when 

prescribed. 


PosseBsion  of 
the  property 
agreed  to  be 
transferred. 


iSS-T. 


[  146  1 


Services — 
Koyal  Tillage. 


Demand  of 

Service  before 

action. 


in  contraditjtion  to  liis  pretensions  as  sole  pro- 
prietor. A  distinction  may  indeed  be  drawn 
between  the  case  of  the  second  defendant  and  that 
of  the  intervenient,  owing  to  the  alternative  as  to 
the  money  or  the  one-third  of  the  house,  which 
is  inserted  in  the  latter's  marriage-contract ;  but 
the  intervenient  having  met  with  a  refusal  so  far 
back  as  1828,  and  having  since  taken  possession 
of  a  share  of  the  house,  the  alternative  is  to  be 
presumed  to  have  been  resolved,  with  the  full 
consent  of  the  parties,  in  favor  of  the  possession." 
The  decree  of  the  Court  below  was  therefore  re- 
versed, and  it  was  decreed  that  the  atipulations  in 
the  marriage  contracts  of  the  several  parties  res- 
pectively should,  as  far  as  related  to  their  one- 
third  share  each,  continue  to  have  full  effect ;  the 
plaintiff  paying  the  second  defendant's  and  inter- 
venieut's  costs,  and  the  Ist  defendant  bearing  her 
own.— No.  4919,  D.  C.  Colombo,  N.  (J.)* 

476. — In  an  action  in  respect  of  certain  ser- 
vices which  the  plaintiff  claimed  from  the  defend- 
ants, it  appeared  that  the  defendants  had,  for 
many  generations  past,  been  holders  of  certain 
lands  in  the  Royal  village  of  Pattepamem,  on  the 
express  condition  that  they  should  give  half  of 
their  monthly  service  to  the  Crown  ;  and  that  the 
Crown  had  transferred  its  rights  to  the  plaintiff 
by  grant.  (Services  on  account  of  tenure  in  Koy- 
al villages  were  expressly  reserved  by  the  Order 
in  Council  of  the  12th  April  1832.)  Service  du- 
ring the  half  of  each  and  every  month  Was  there- 
fore due  to  the  plaintiff,  as  anciently  to  the  Crown, 
(being  in  fact  the  price  of  the  land)  ;  but  in  order 
to  entitle  the  plaintiff  to  recover  the  arrears  of  ser- 
vices. Held  that  proper  notice  to  perform  service 
should  have  been  proved  ;  for  if  the  grantee,  even 
under  a  misapprehension,  had  thought  fit  to  waive 
the  personal  duty,  he  could  not  subsequently  con- 
vert it  into  a  money-payment.  Under  these  cir- 
cumstances, the  Supreme  Court  decreed  the  de- 
fendants  to  be   liable  to  perform  service  to  the 

•  The  decision,  although  marked  J.  in  the  Minutes  (as  hav- 
ing been  prononnced  by  Mr.  Justice  Jermiie,)  contdna  also  ft 
note  in  pencil  to  the  effect  th»t  it  lyas  a  collective  decision. 


L147] 


1837. 


plaintiff  for  15  days  in  each  month,  and  to  indem- 
nify him  for  the  non-performance  of  past  service 
at  the  rate  of  three  fanams  a  day,  to  be  computed 
from  the  commencement  of  the  suit.  [It  had 
been  stated  in  the  course  of  the  proceedings  that 
the  defendants  were  further  liable  to  perform  "  ex- 
tra service  when  required  ;"  but  held  that  this 
could  not  be  admitted,  as  such  extra  service  had 
been  clearly  abolished  by  the  above  mentioned  Or- 
der in  Council.]  No.  4053,  D.  C.  Four  Corles, 
<J.) 

477. — A  case  having  been  referred  back  to  the 
District  Court  of  Ratnapoora,  with  directions*  to 
ascertain  the  accustomed  usage  in  respect  of  the 
wtYZe-tenure,  viz.  1,  as  to  the  accustomed  period  at 
which  the  incoming  tenants  take  actual  possession, 
whether  before  or  after  the  harvest  of  the  year  ; 
and  2,  if  before,  whether  it  is  the  invariable  usage 
for  this  incoming  tenant  to  take  the  proprietor's  share 
of  the  crop  on  the  ground; — the  Assessors,  a  large 
majority  of  the  witnesses  in  the  case,  and  the  Dis- 
trict Judge  were  all  agreed  "  that  it  was  not  the 
the  usage  for  the  incoming  tenant  to  take  the 
crop  on  the  ground ;  and  that  as  regards  the  par- 
ticular ratV^e -holdings  in  question,  it  was  estab- 
lished that  in  the  village  over  which  the  defen- 
dant had  oontroul,  the  custom  was  to  enter  in 
June,  the  land  being  then  fallow  ;"  and  the  case 
was  decided  by  the  Supreme  Court  accordingly. 
^-Eo.  794,  D.  0.  Eatnapoora,  (J.) 

478. — Where  no  interest  was  claimed  in  the 
pleadings,  the  Supreme  Court  refused  to  award 
any. —  Jbid. 

May  3,  (R.  J.  St.) 

479. — On  an  appeal  against  an  Interlocutory 
order  rejecting  certain  documents  tendered  on  be- 
half of  the  defendants  without  stampj  it  appeared 
that  an  application  of  the  defendants  to  be  allow- 
ed to  defend  in  forma  pauperis  had  been  previ- 
ously refused  on  the  report  of  a  Proctor  that  the 
defendants  had  not  a  good  defence, — an  opini- 
on reiterated  on  a  second  reference  subsequently 
ms'le  to  the  same  Proctor.     An  affidavit  of  want 


Custom  of 
Eatnapoora 
in  respect  oC 


Incoming 

tenant  not 

entitled  to  th& 

crop  on  the 

ground. 


Time  of  Entry. 


Interest — not 

claimed  in  the 

pleadings. 


Defence  in 

forma  pauperis, 

allowed  in  spite 

of  a  Proctor's 

certificate. 


*  1.  February,  183T. 


1837. 


[  148  ] 


Court  may  re- 
scind a  prepara- 
tory order. 


Plaintiff  not 

entitled  to 

oliject  to  a  par- 

tioijUr  eop- 

struction  of  the 

Answer. 


Registrar's  fee 
for  reporting  on 
a  Bill  of  Costs. 


Breach  of 

Contract — 

Principal  and 

Agent. 


of  property  in  the  defendants  had  ho'we'v;er  bettt 
,?-worn  to  and  admitted  upon  the  proceedings;  and 
per  Bough  J, — "  If  credit  be  given  to  Buch  af- 
fidavit, it  is  better  that  the  case  should  be  heard 
oijt.  There  is  a  great  difference  between  the 
position  of  a  defendant  and  a  plaintiff  in  case? 
of  this  description ;  and  there  seems  ambigui-. 
ty  enough  in  this  transaction  to  admit  of  its  be- 
ipg  heard  through.  Without  prejudice  therer 
fore  to  the  case  of  the  plaintj^,  it  is  directed  that 
the  interlocutory  order  be  overruled,  and  that  the- 
defen,dants  be  allowed  to  file  their  docnmeats  as 
paupers,  subject  to  the  final  decree  of  the  District 
Court  treating  the  case  as  a  whole." — No.  1149, 
D.  C.  Wadimoratchi/,  (B..). 

480. — A  Court  is  at  all  times  a;t  liberty  to  re- 
scind an  order  purely  prepatatory,  before  it  pro- 
ceeds to  the  merits. — No.  292,  D.  0.  Tangalk, 
(J.), 

481'. — A  District  Court  having  itself  explained 
the  meaning  to  be  put  upon  the  Answer  of  a  de- 
fendant, and  that  view  not  having  been  disputed 
by  the  defendant  himself,  who  under,  the  circum- 
stances could  alone  complain  if  a  wrong  construc- 
tion had  been  put  upon  his  word.  Held  that  the 
judgment  of  the  Court  could  not  be  considered 
open  to  objection,  on  the  part  of  the  plaintiff; — 
Ibid. 

482. — Where  a  Bill  of  Costs  h^d  been  referred* 
to  the  Registrar  of  the  Supreme  Court  to  be  en- 
tirely retaxed,  with  liberty  to  the  proctors  for 
both  parties  to  appear  before  him  and  state  their 
objections,  it  was  considered  and  adjudged  (the 
report  of  the  Registrar  having  been  adopted,)  that 
an  additional  charge  should  be  allowed  for  the 
Registrar's  special  report,  equal  in  amount  tO' 
the  fee  formerly  allowed  to-  the  Master. — Nos 
2612,  D.  C,  Negombo,  (J.) 

483. — In  an  action  for  damages  on  a  breach  of 
contract,  it  appeared  in  evidence  that  on  the  22- 
Jan.  1836,  the  plaintiff  received  from  the  first  de- 


*  38.  ^;;riir  1837. 


[  149  ]  '«•'"'• 

fendant  (a  merdiant  trading  in  Colombo,)  the  fol- 
lewing  note,  referring  evidently  to  some  previous 
communication  which  had  been  referred  by  the 
first  defendant  as  Agent,  to  the  second  defendant 
as  Master  of  a  ship  then  in  the  harbour, — "  My 
dear  Sir,  If  you  will  tell  me  the  exact  number  of 
bags  of  Coffee  and  bales  of  Cinnamon,  I  v,i\\  book 
you  for  freight  j)er  Tigris  at  current  rates.  Your's 
truly,  R.  Jtffery  ;"  to  which  the  plaintiff  replied 
as  follows, — "  My  dear  Sir,  With  your  leave  I  con- 
sider Coffee  per  Tigris  1300  bags,  Cinnamon  in 
bales  and  boxes  16  tons,  settled.  Your's  truly,  G. 
E.  Layard-"  and  on  the  same  day  the  correspond 
dence  was  closed  for  the  time  by  the  following 
note  from  the  first  defendant, — "  My  dear  Sir,  I 
have  booked  your  Coffee  and  Cinnamon  jper  Ti- 
gris,    Yours  truly,  R.  Jeffeey." 

The  Tigris  having  however,  notwithstanding- 
the  above  undertaking,  shipped  only  22U  bags  of 
Coffee  and  none  of  the  Cinnamon,  the  plaintiff 
brought  his  action  for  damages  sustained  by  him 
by  reason  of  the  breach  of  contract.  The  de- 
fendants pleaded  severally, — the  first  that  he  had 
merely  acted  as  the  agent  of  the  second,  and  was 
not  therefore  responsible  for  his  acts;  and  the 
second,  that  there  had  been  no  contract;  that  if  it 
had  originally  existed,  it  had  been  waived  by  the 
plaintiff;  and  lastly  that  the  plaintiff  had  suffered 
no  loss. 

And  as  Tegards  the  first  defendant.  Held  that  ^„g„(.  ^^^  ^^^ 
he  was  not  personally  liable.  "An  agent  act-  sonally liable. 
ing  within  the  scope  of  his  instructions  and 
contracting  as  such  for  a  known  and  respon- 
sible employer,  especially  if  he  was  present 
(and  the  second  defendant  was  proved  to  have 
been  present  and  to  have  been  consulted  with 
repeatedly  throughout  the  transaction,)  incurs  no 
personal  liability  to  a  third  party ;  for  when  such 
third  party  'knows  him  to  be  an  agent,  knows  hia 
principal,  and  knows  that  he  intended  only  to  bind 
that  principal,  he  will  be  taken  to  have  trusted  tp 
the  credit  of  the  principal  only,  except  in  the^ 
case  of  Masters  of  ships,'  who  in  most  occurrences 
bind  themselves  as  well  as  the  ship." 

As  to  the  second  defendant,  much  stress  had 


1837. 


[150] 


Custom  of  been  laid  on  tlie  cuatom  of  tliis  port  ^^•ith  regard  to 
Merchants—  looJcing,  and  evidence  adduced  to  shew  the  con- 
struction which  had  by  nsage  been  put  upon 
the  practice  of  booking:  and  an  argument  had 
been  raised  as  to  the  power  of  the  agent  of 
a  ship  to  bind  the  Master  by  booldng  for  freight. 
The  judgment  of  the  Supreme  Court  hereon  was 
as  follows: — "The  Custom  of  Merchants,  which  is 
respected  as  law,  and,  in  default  of  express  enact- 
ment, is  taken  as  such,  is  not  the  mere  local  and 
peculiar  practice  of  any  given  port,  but  the  gene- 
rally recognized  practice  and  usage  among  the 
merchants  of  the  Nation  to  which  that  port  is  sub- 
ject; and  the  custom  of  this  port  or  any  other 
port  is  therefore  entitled  to  be  upheld  Inasmuch 
only  as  it  is  reasonable  in  itself  and  not  inconsis- 
tent with  the  generally  recognized  practice  of  Brit- 
ish Merchants,  and  no  further.  In  the  present 
case,  it  would  seem  that  a  distinction  may,  for 
practical  purposes,  be  drawn,  and  has  existed  at 
Colombo,  between  the  mere  hooking  for  freight 
with  the  Agent,  before  the  arrival  of  the  ves- 
sel, and  a  subsequent  hooking  when  the  Mas- 
ter is  present  in  port.  The  former  would  ap- 
pear to  be  contingent  and  subject  to  subsequent 
ratification  of  the  Master;  so  that,  if  on  his  arrival 
he  should  happen  to  be  pre-engaged  for  a 
w  hole  or  a  part  of  his  cargo,  or  if  he  should  wish 
to  retain  the  whole  of  his  ship  or  any  part  of  the 
tonnage  for  his  ^j^vn  use,  he  is  not  so  bound  down 
by  the  act  of  his  Agent  hpre  as  to  preclude  ln« 
makiug  his  election,  provided  he  acts  in  perfect 
good  fiith  and  makes  known  his  resolution  in 
reasonable  time.  The  conditions  implied  by  such 
a  booking  will  appear  to  have  been  fulfilled  if,  as 
regards  the  quantity  and  quality  of  merchandize 
to  be  shipped  at  the  port  under  engagements 
formed  there,  the  goods  are  taken  in  the  order 
M^ter'thereon.  '"  which  they  are  booked  by  the  Agent ;  the 
booking  in  such  a  case  amounting  to  nothing 
more  than  the  securing  a  preference  for  the 
unengar^red  space  in  the  ship  at  the  time  of  her  ar- 
rival, whatever  that  space  may  be.  And  this 
imphed  condition  being  not  unreasonable,  if  it  be 
the  common  understanding  ol  the  Jilerchants  that 


Booking  for 

Freight. 
Liability  of 


1151] 


mr-. 


such  is  the  getierally  recognized  p-actice,  and  that 
effectually  to  bind  the  ship  it  is  under  these  cir- 
cumstances requisite  to  have  a  special  agreement 
with  the  Agent,  it  is  probable  the  Coiirt  would  feel 
a  reluctance  to  disturb  it.  But  where  the  Master 
is  present,  where  though  the  correspondence  be 
principally  carried  oti  \vith  the  Agent,  still  it  is 
done  with  the  Master's  assent  and  concurrence, 
when  a  word  from  him  could  stop  the  whole  trans- 
action ;  then  very  different  is  the  construction  to 
be  put  upon  the  booking.  In  that  oase  it  cannot 
but  be  construed  as  a  term  of  distinct  acceptance, 
from  which  neither  party  can  recede,  except  at  the 
risk  of  an  action  for  a  breach  of  covenant."  And  it 
was  held  that  th«  transaction  between  the  parties 
was  a  complete  contract  fxsr  freight,  which  the 
second  defendant  was  bound  to  fulfil,  unless  some 
unforeseen  occurrence  attribiitable  to  neither  party 
should  intervene  to  render  its  execution  impracti- 
cable ;  but  that  any  engagement  to  sanction  the 
infringement  of  such  a  contract,  owing  to  a  sub'- 
sequent  view  of  the  Owner's  or  the  Shipper's  in- 
terests, would  run  counter  not  only  to  all  the 
known  rules  of  trade,  but  to  the  ordinary  princi- 
ples of  good  faith ;  and  that  even  if  the  most  perfect 
unanimity  should  have  prevailed  in  the  trade  in 
regard  to  such  a  practice,  this  would  not  alter  the 
opinion  of  the  Court,  which  would  on  the  contra- 
ry be  bound  to  extirpate  so  defective  a  practice. 

The  waiver  insisted  u]ion  by  the  second  de-  Alleged  waiver 
fendant  arose  from  the  following  note  from  him  to  of  the  Contract, 
the  plaintiff  written  on  the  2.  February, — "  My 
dear  Sir,  As  soon  as  the  ship  is  ready  for  taking 
in,  I  will  send  you  an  order  to  ship.  1  shall  not 
be  able  to  take  the  whole  of  your  Coffee.  I  think 
you  had  better  send  some  on  board  the  Colombo. 
Your's  truly,  J.  Stevens," — and  from  the  circum- 
stance that  from  that  day  to  the  27.  February, 
the  plaintiff  had  not  required  an  explanation  of 
that  note,  but  seemed  satisfied  with  the  exclusion 
of  a  portion  of  his  freight.  On  this  point  the 
Court  pronounced  judgment  as  follows  : — "  There 
can  be  no  doubtthat  under  ordinary  circumstances, 
there  might  be  some  reason  to  infer  a  willingness 
to  abandon  from  a  silence  of  upwards  of  three 


1S37. 


[  152  ] 


Damages — 

Interest  on 

intended 

«bipment. 


Agent  standing 

security  for  his 

Princip^. 


weeks  respecting  the  lacling  of  a  sLip,  especially 
if  tkis  fact  were  coupled  with  others  to  the  same 
point :  but  here,  setting  aside  the  extreme  vague- 
ness of  the  note  itself  as  to  the  quantity  which  might 
yet  be  shipped,  its  effect,  were  its  terms  much 
moi'e  distinct  than  they  are,  would  probably  be 
quite  neutralised  by  any  of  the  three  following  cir- 
cnmstances  ;  and  it  certainly  is  so,  taking  them  all 
in  conjunction  : — 1,  that  subsequiently  to  the  trans- 
mission of  this  note,  a  further  order  was  actually 
booked  for  this  ship  ;  2,  that  to  make  up  a  cargo  a 
larger  quantity  than  the  plaintiff's  of  the  same 
kind  of  merchandize,  was  shipped  for  local  mer- 
chants, who  had  never  booked  ;  and  that  of  5119 
hags  actually  shipped,  3396  were  for  account  of 
the  ship-owner  and  the  Agent  themselves.  Now 
even  a  clearer  consent  to  waive  your  right  ra- 
ther than  inconvenience  your  obligee,  can  scarce 
be  construed  into  a  consent  to  give  him;  and  others 
a  direct  advantage  over  you;  in  defiance  of  Ms 
agreement  with  you. 

"  And  as  to  the  damages] — ^the  damages  are 
stated  generally  ;  and  the  breach  of  contract  being 
proved,  damages  are  due.  It  is  true,  the  heaviest 
item  in  the  estimate  of  damages  is  not  made  out, 
viz.  the  loss  on  the  sales,  owing  to  the  delay.  It 
is  shewn  however  that  there  was  an  increase  o£ 
£1  per  ton  in  the  freight ;  and  interest  is  cer- 
tainly due  on  the  intended  shipment  during  tha 
time  it  was  necessarily  delayed. 

The  decree  of  the  Court  below  (which  dismiss^ 
ed  the  plaintiffs  claim  as  against  both  defendants,)' 
was  therefore,  with  the  concurrence  of  the  Assess- 
ors,* affirmed  as  to  the  first  defendant  personally, 
and  reversed  as  to  the  second  defendant,  who  wa» 
adjudged^  to  pay  the  plaintiff  £100' damages  and 
costs  as  against  him.  And  it  being  admitted  that 
subsequently  to  the  transaction,  the  first  defendant 
had  stood  security  for  the  second,  and  being  as 
such  necessarily  bound  to  diseharge  to  the  extent) 
of  bis  bail  any  condemnation  incurred  in  the  cause^. 
he  the  first  defendant  was  held  to  continue  res-' 

»  Being  (hree  Mercantile  gentlemen  of  this  pcftt„TJ!;.  /.  H- 
found,  ^'  DarUy  and  A.  Frater,  Gs^uireB. 


[153  J 


issr. 


ponsiblo  to  tte  plaintiff  .for  the  amount  decreed 
against  the  second  defendant. — No.  llliO,  D.  0. 
Colombo,  S.  (J.) 

May  6,  (R.  J.  St.) 

483. — On  a  case  being  summarily  struck  off, 
the  grounds  of  the  proceeding  and  the  rule  under 
■which  it  is  adopted  should  be  specified. — No  3855, 
D.  C.  Jaffna,  (J.) 

484. — Though  in  the  Kandian  Provinces,  on 
failure  of  children  by  birth,  an  Adoption  entitles 
the  adopted  child  to  the  succession  of  the  parents 
by  adoption,  to  the  exclusion  of  collaterals,  it  is 
otherwise  in  the  Maritime  Provinces  which  are 
governed  by  the  Law  of  Holland. — No  240,  D.  C. 
Tangalle,  (J.) 

485. — Where  a  deed  of  gift  conferred  on  the 
donee  the  whole  of  an  estate,  of  which  the  donor 
had  but  a  share.  Held  that  the  deed,  so  far  as  re- 
garded the  portion  of  which  the  donor  was  the 
undoubted  proprietor,  was  a  good  gift.  Had  he 
given  less  than  he  possessed,  his  heirs  would  have 
had  the  overplus.  He  had  given  more  ;  the  heirs 
were  shut  out ;  and  the  deed  was  reduced  to  its 
true  amount. — No  1026,  D.  0.  Ratnapoora,  (J.) 

486. — Where  a  party  had  transferred  certain 
lands  to  his  adopted  children  (plaintiffs,)  by  a 
verbal  bequest,  which  he  had  endeavoured  +o  get 
reduced  into  writing,  but  died  before  it  could  be 
executed  ;  Held  that  he  had  a  right  by  Kandiaa 
Law  and  Custom  to  make  such  a  grant ;  but  there 
being  no  writing  to  that  effect,  no  action  could  be 
maintained  thereon.  (See  Procl.  of  October  1820.) 
A  distinction  was  however  drawn  between  main- 
taining an  action  and  defending  it,  and  though 
the  plaintifls  were  held  not  entitled  to  claim  pos- 
session of  the  lands  under  such  a  bequest,  yet, 
if  the  other  heirs  (defendants)  who  might 
have  disputed  the  grant  had  actually  acquiesced 
in  it  and  granted  possession  ;  then,  the  equity 
of  the  case  being  exactly  the  same  whether 
the  grant  had  been  verbal  or  written,  hav- 
ing once  fulfilled  their  common  ancestor  and 
donor's  pleasure,  they  were  too  late  to  recede  from 


Grounds  foy 

striking  off  ft 

caseshonld  b* 

spedfled. 


Adoption— 

under  the 

Kandian  Law 

uicl  tbe  Dutch 

Law. 


Gift  of  more 

than  Donor  was 

entitled  to. 


Verbal  Bequest 
of  Lands- 


Heirs  ■wten 

estopped  frojft 

disfuiting. 


1887. 


[  154  ] 


Submission  void 

by  death  of  one 

of  the 

Arbitraiors. 


Dissolution  of 
Partnership — 
Payment  to  one 
of  the  Parttters. 


Conspiracy. 


k  party  sup- 
pressing his 
own  claim  to 
assist  another's. 


Contempt  of 
Co\ilt. 


it.  And  the  plaintiffs  who  had  been  pro-v%dto 
have  been  in  possession  of  one  of  the  lands  for  eight 
years,  were  held  entitled  to  retain  it  notwith- 
standing its  being  included  in  a  previous  deed  of 
gift  to  one  of  the  defendants. — Ibid. 

487. — A  submission  to  arbitration  becomes  void 
by  the  death  of  one  of  the  Arbitrators ;  and  an 
Award  not  signed  by  all  the  Arbitrators  ia  also 
void. — No.  732,  D.  0.  Chavagacherry,  (J.) 

May  17,  (E.  J.  St.) 

488. — In  an  action  for  money,  the  defendant 
pleaded  that  the  plaintiff  had  been  in  partnership 
with  another,  and  that  he  had  paid  the  debt  to 
such  partner ;  but  in  his  examination,  he  admitted 
that  he  knew  at  the  time  he  paid  the  money  that 
the  partnership  had  been  dissolved.  This  admis- 
sion was  however  held  insufficient  to  justify  a 
judgment  against  him.  He  must  have  been  proved 
to  have  known  that  the  plaintiff  was  the  liquida- 
ting partner;  for  until  then,  he  was  fully  justified 
in  paying  to  either  partner.  Th«  judgment  was 
therefore  set  aside  and  the  defendant  allowed  to 
prove  that  he  had  discharged  the  debt  by  means 
of  a  bond  or  therwise  to  either  partner. — No. 
4,788,  D.  0.  Uttuan  Kandy,  (J.) 

489. — That  two  parties  having  the  same  pre- 
tensions should  unite  to  recover  their  due,  is  nei- 
ther unusual  nor  improper,  when  they  both  ap- 
pear and  their  groimds  of  action  are  much  the 
same ;  but  that  two  parties  having  directly  oppo- 
site pretensions,  so  that  their  claims  could  not 
stand  together,  should  combine  against  a  third, 
the  one  suppressing  his  own  pretensions  but  sti- 
pulating for  a  share  in  the  spoil,  is  in  itself  suspi- 
cious and  culpable  to  a  degree ;  and  if  the  persoa 
so  suppressing  his  claims  should  be  brought  for- 
ward by  his  confederate  as  a  disinterested  witness 
in  the  case,  so  gross  and  scandalous  a  fraud  should, 
on  its  detection,  be  instantly  punished  as  a  con- 
tempt of  Court  of  the  blackest  dye,  to  say  no- 
thing of  informations  for  Conspiracy  and  Perjury. 
;— No.  801,  D.  C.  Uttmn  Kandy,  (J.) 


[155] 


18S7. 


Possession — 

pi-ima-facie 

proof  of 

ownership. 


Application  for 

and  possession 

of  Government 

Land. 


490. — By  the  Charter,  all  those  rights  devolv-       Eights  of 
ed  to  a  District  Court  which  are  usually  possess-    ^'^^"^  <^°™"'- 
ed  in  England  by  Courts  of  Law  and  Courts  of 
Equity :  and  none  is  better  established  m  equity 
than  the  practice  in  oases  of  palpable  fraud  of 
awarding  damages  under  the  name  of  increased   Increased  costs, 
costs. — IMd. 

May  20. 

491. — There  being  a  prima-facie  case  of  the 
removal  of  some  property  from  the  plaintiff's 
house  by  the  defendants;  Held  that  in  default  of 
proof  to  the  contrary,  the  property  must  be  pre- 
sumed to  have  belonged  to  the  plaintiff. — No. 
4,459,  D.  C.  Vttuan  Kandy,  (J.y 

492. — A  mere  application  to-Government  for  land 
does  not  constitute  a  right  to  the  ground,  unless 
accompanied  by  after-possession;,  but  it  raises  a 
strong  presumption  of  possession;,  and  although 
the  Government  could  resume,  yet  as  between 
party  and  party  it  requires  but'very  little  jnore  to 
establish  the  fact  of  poseesion;  and,  setting  aside 
parole  evidence,  that  little  more  was  held  to  be 
fully  supplied  by  two  receipts  from  the  renters  for 
the  Government-share  of  the  crops  of  two  years; 
for  it  could  scarcely  be  presumed  that  a  party 
would  have  paid  the  Government  its  rent,  had  he 
no  share  in  the  produce. — Tbiim 

493. — The  strictest  rules  of  Practice  bend  to  a 
necessity,  if  convincingly  proved. — No.  893,  D. 
C.  Amblangodde,  (J.) 

May  24,  (R.  J.  St.) 

494. — In  an  action  for  money  due  by  the  de- 
fendant to  the  plaintiff  as  the  balance  of  their 
mutual  accounts,  the  plaintiff  appealed  on  the 
ground  that  the  Court  below  had  rejected  certain 
evidence  tendered  by  him  to  prove  his  right  to 
two-fifths  of  the  profits  accruing  from  the  sale  of 
a  quantity  of  goods  purchased  by  him  at  Colombo 
and  retailed  by  the  defendant  at  Kandy.  The 
ground  of  rejection  was  that  parol  evidence  of  a 
partnership  was  inadmissable,  and  that  the  plain- 
tiff was  to  be  presumed  to  have  acted  as  the  de- 
fendant's agent  on  the  occasion;  but  Held  by  the 


Eules  of 
Practice — 
Necessity. 


Parole  evidenoe 
of  Partnership. 


i88r 


[156] 


Stipulation  by 

au  Agent  for  a 

share  in  the 

profits. 

Notes  of  Hand- 
how  far  conclu- 
sive as  proof  of 
the  debt. 


Goods  sold,  and 

Money  lent — 

what  evidence 

necessaiy  t© 

support  an 

action  for. 


Xradesmsji's 
Books, 


Supreme  Court  that  although  evidence  of  a  gener- 
al commercial  partnership  was  inadmissihle  under 
the  Ordinance  No.  7  of  1834,  if  the  capital  ex- 
ceeded £100;  yet  this  could  not  be  construed  to 
extend  to  mere  joint  speculations  which  are  daily 
entered  into  by  mercantile  firms  in  other  respects, 
perfectly  independant  of  each  other;  nor  if  the 
plaintiff  had  acted  as  the  defendant's  agent,  would 
there  have  been  any  thing  unusual  or  irregular  in 
his  having  stipulated  for  a  share  in  the  profits  in 
lieu  of  commission. — No.  7331,  D.  0.  Kandy,(J.j 

495. — In  the  above  case,  the  defendant  having 
claimed  in  reconvention  the  amount  of  two  Notes 
of  Hand  from  the  plaintiff,  the  plaintiffhad  alleg- 
ed that  these  notes  though  still  in  the  hands  of  the 
defendant  had  been  fully  satisfied;  and  on  this 
point  also  evidence  had  iDeen  rejected:  but  Held 
that  although  a  negotiable  bill  in  the  hands  of  a 
thii'd  hona-fide  holder  would  prove  itself  so  effec- 
tually that  evidence  either  as  to  the  want  of  a 
sufficient  consideration  originally  or  as  to  the  sub* 
sequent  discharge  by  payment  would  be  inadmis- 
sible; yet  the  rule  did  not  apply  to  the  notes  in 
question;  as  they  were  not  negotiable,  and  if  they 
were,  the  obligor  and  obligee  were  themselves 
the  parties  in  the  case ;  and  though  the  fact  of  the 
notes  being  in  the  hands  of  the  latter  was  prima 
facie  evidence  thatthe'y  were  unsatisfied,,  it  was  not 
conclusive  proof,  and  the  inference  might  be  re- 
butted by  counter  evidence. — Ibid. 

496. — Two  other  points  were  raised  in  the  above 
case  with  reference  to  a  sum  of  money  claimed  by 
the  defendant  in  reconvention  '"  for  cash  lent  and 
goods  supplied  by  the  defendant  to  the  plaintiff 
without  receipts  or  orders,"  and  which  the  Court 
below  had  allowed  to  remain  to  the  defendant's 
credit,  on  the  testimony  derived  from  his  books 
and  his  own  declarations;  and  hereon  the  Supreme 
Court  pronounced  judgment  as  follows  : — "  The 
Court  would  draw  a  distinction  between  goods  sup- 
plied in  the  regular  course  of  trade  and  money 
lent.  For  as  relates  to  the  goods,  though  even  here 
the  Court  would  by  no  means  lay  it  down  as  a  ge- 
neral proposition  that  a  tradesman's  books  are  to  be 


[157] 


18S7. 


considered  sufficient  evidence  of  his  dealings,  yet 
looking  to  the  peculiar  circumstances  of  the  case, 
—considering  that  the  goods  in  the  item,  of 
small  amount  and  in  daily  demand,  were  suppli- 
ed prior  to  the  month  of  May  1832,  and  that  the 
parties  continued  to  deal  together  for  upwards 
of  two  years  afterwards,  coupling  that  fact  with 
the  plaintiff's  admission  as  to  the  loose  man- 
ner in  which  they  both  carried  on  their  affairs — 
it  feels  inclineil  to  concur  with  the  Court  below 
in  holding  the  item  as  to  the  goods  sold  as  suffici- 
ently proved.  But  as  regards  the  money  lent,  this 
is  a  matter  quite  foreign  to  the  defendant's  trade, 
and  it  must  be  proved  in  the  usual  way.  The 
entries  in  his  book  can  only  be  taken  as  private 
memoranda  for  his  own  use  ;  but  of  course  any 
entry  in  the  Accounts  signed  and  produced  by 
the  plaintiff  for  any  part  of  this  money  will  be-tB^ 
best  and  most  effectual  proof  against  him  for  the 
amount  so  entered." — Ibid. 

497. — J.  Staples,  Advocate  for  the  defendants 
and  appellants  to  the  King  in  Privy  Council,  ten- 
dered two  persons  as  securities  for  the  due  pro- 
secution of  the  appeal  and  moved  that  the  Court 
would  fix  the  amount  for  which  the  said  sureties 
were  to  bind  themselves.  P erring  Advocate  and 
C.  Morgan  Proctor  for  the  respondents  agreeing 
to  the  said  securities,  it  was  ordered  that  they 
should  be  accepted  and  the  usual  Bond  executed 
before  the  Deputy  Eegistrar  of  the  Court  for  the 
sum  of  £200. 

Perring  for  the  Eespondents  subsequently  mov- 
ed that  certain  landed  property  belonging  to  the 
respondents  and  intended  to  be  offered  in  mort- 
gage to  enable  them  to  sue  out  execution  upon 
the  decree  of  the  Court  of  the  1.  March  1837, 
should  be  appraised  under  order  of  the  Court.  And 
the  Court  therefore  directed  that  a  schedule  of  the 
property  tendered  should  be  filed  in  the  Registry 
of  the  Court,  and  recommended  the  parties  to 
agree  as  to  its  value  and  generally  as  to  the 
sufficiency  of  the  security  to  be  given. — No.  84, 
D.  C.  Manar,  (J.) 


Security — on 

appeal  to  the 
Privy  Council. 


Appraisement 

of  property 

tendered  as 

security. 


3837. 


[158] 


Costs — on 

Modification  of 

a  Decree. 


Reference  to 
Arbitration — 
AmWguity  in. 


Costs  against  a 
party,  who  has 
been  dropped 
in  the  coarse  of 
the  proceedings. 


4-98. Where  a  decree  of  the  Supreme  Court 

was  neither  an  affirmation  nor  a  reversal,  but  mere- 
ly  a  modification  of  the  decree  appealed  from,  and 
no  costs  were  mentioned  therein,  Held  that  no 
costs  were  due  on  either  side. — No.  23-,  D.  C. 
Arnblangodde,  (J.) 

499. — Where  an  Order  of  Reference  to  Arbi- 
tration made  in  a  case  was  ambiguous,  it  was  re- 
ferred back  for  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  from 
the  Court  below,  its  intention  on  the  occasion  of 
Tiaming  the  "  arbitrators ;"  viz.  whether  it  had 
been  done  for  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  an  opi- 
nion from  persons  conversant  in  those  matters,  for 
the  information  of  the  Court, — the  Court  reserv- 
ing to  itself  a  right  of  revisal:  and  final  determina- 
tion, as  was  not  unusual ;  or  for  the  purpose  of 
adjudication,  on  the  condition  that  their  award 
should  be  definitive  and  binding  on  both  parties, 
the  Court  thus  divesting  itself  of  the  right  of  re- 
vision, as  was  also  frequently  done  :  and  if  the  lat- 
ter were  the  case,  whether  the  Court  was  satisfied 
that  this  had  been  elearly  understood  by  both 
parties.— No.  2228,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (J.) 

Mai/  31.  (R.  J.  St.) 

500. — In  a  case  where  a  party  intervenient 
had  been  condemned  in  costs,  it  was  held  by  the 
Supreme  Court  in  appeal,  that  the  intervenient 
might  have  been  liable  in  the  whole  costs,  had  he 
been  maintained  throughout  as  a  party  in  the 
cause  ;  but  he  appeared  by  some  oversight  to 
have  been  dropped  in  the  course  of  the  proceed- 
ings and  on  the  occasion  of  two  previous  appeals 
to  the  Supreme  Court ;  and  he  could  therefore  be 
only  rendered  liable  for  the  costs  incurred  in  hia 
presence  and  when  he  had  had  notice  to  attend. — 
No.  2225,  D.  C.  Jaffna,  (J.) 


1 159  ]  1S8J 

June  7,  (R.  J.  St.) 

ZOl.—EbcH  and  otlior?  v.  F.  A.  Toussaini  and 
olhei'd. 

John  Terwyck,  by  his  will  dated  the  10th  ^""tPent""^ 
August  182u,  appoiiilel  Martensz,  Corteling,  Speeiiil"  iWer 
Keegel,  and  J.  F.  'fonssaiiit,  his  oxecutoi-s»  Of  ^°  "  i-eoovev." 
these  Martensz,  Corteling,  and  Tomsaint  assumed"  Hgjj.g  ofWife 
the  office  in  June  1829,  and  continu>  d  to  admin-  howfiinespon- 
ister  until  April  183fi,  wkon    they  were  dismissed-  ^^'''^  ^,^^7-^^' 

V    ■»!      /-<        :  L-  1  •  T    1     .  tors     of  Has- 

by  the  Court  tor  nialversatirin  ;  and  their  property  taujl. 

Yi-as  seized  and  their  person  ariested,  for  the 
aaiount  of  the  defalcation, — the  plaintiffs  being 
enbstituted'a*  executors  in  their  place. 

Martensz  was  also  tlie  agent  or  attorney  to  tha 
estate  of  Johanna  ElKohtth  Mooyaart,  the  first 
vife  of  one  jI/.  7^.  .ffucitei,  and  a  surety  for  tha 
management  of  her  estate.  The  wife  died  iu 
1813,  and  her  husband  about  the  year  1823  pro- 
ceeded to  Batavix  and  died  there.  In  this 
second  capacity,  Martensz  had  similarly  failed 
iu  his  duty  ;  and  actions  Avere  entered  against 
him  by  the  present  defendants  as  special  attorneys 
of  the  heirs  of  ./.  E.  Mooi/aait,  for  the  purpose  of 
recovering  certain  monies  and  effects  belonging  to 
that  e«tate  ;  which  actions  v\ere  still  pending. 

In  the  meantime,  the  plaintiffs,  as  substituted 
executors  ol'VerwycIc,  commenced  the  present  ac- 
tion aga'nst  the  defendants,  not  as  attorneys  to  the 
heirs  of  J.  E.  Mooyaart,  but  as  attorneys  to,  or 
rather  as  gener.'xlly  r€.sponsihle  for,  the  heirs  of  her 
husband  Racket,  {qt  the  amount  of  two  bond* 
granted^by  him  to  Verwyck  in  1819  and  1823, 
and  both  therefore  subsequent  to  the  .demise  of 
J.  E.  Mooyaart.  The  defendants  alleged,  1.  col- 
lusion between  Marienw  and  the  defendants  ;  ii. 
that  'he  defendants'powers  were  general,  orat  least 
that  they  had  undertaken  to  act  generally  ;  3.  that 
the  heirs  of  tfiie  wife  being  also  heirs  of  the  husband, 
their  attorneys  were  bound  to  meet  this  action  for 
the  debts  of  the  husband  ;  and  4.  that  if  the  action 
were  not  maintainable,  then  they  wer«  entitled  to 
the  ancient  remedy  by  Ediotile  Citation  against-the 
beirs-of  the  husband.  To  this  the  defendants  repli- 


.1S37  ■ 


[  160  ] 

eil  that  tliey  Sveve  only  special  attorneys. for  the  ex- 
clusive ]nirpGBe  of  obtnining  a  settlement  of  Moot)- 
aart's  estate  ;  that  they, were  only  empowered  "  to 
"recover  Svh.it  they  conkl  get ;"  anil  even  supposing 
any  claims  were  bronght  against  the  children  them- 
selves, they  could  not  meet  them.tnTich  less  answer 
to  claims  l)roua;ht  against  the  hnsband.  The  CoHrt 
below,  ht'ld  that  the  action  was  not  maintainable, 
.and  dismissed  the  plaintiff's'  claim  Against  this 
decree. the  plaintiiTs  took  the  present  Appeal. 

The  Supremo  Court,  in  nffirmirig  the  deftee- of 
the  Court  below,  gave  ji'idgiii:;nt  as  follows  : 

"  As  to  the  Jirst  point,  it  appears  that  suspicioB 
attaches  at  the  utmost  to  the  conduct  of  the  aU . 
torneys,  and  that  here  the  interests  of  Van  princi- 
pah  are  chiefly  to  ho  considered  ;  with  regard  to 
V'hid;  it  is  not;  unreasonable  to  infer  that  if  Mcr;'-, 
tensz  has  proved  himself  undeserving  the  eonfiii 
dence  of  Yerwyclc,  he  would  not  have  been  muck, 
niore  scrupulous  with  I'cgard  to  Mr.  or  Jlrs. 
Racket. 

•  "  As  to  the  second  point,  not  only  is  the  Power 
of  Attorney  special  in  its  terms,  hut  it  does  not 
appear  that  the  defendants  have  ever  overstepped 
their  authoiity,  every  act  alleged  in  .this  respect 
liaving  been  done  (right  or  wrong)  in  the  interest 
of  the  heirs  of  Mrs.  J.  ■£.  3Idoi/aart.  It  is  alst) 
clear  that  tlio  debt  fur  which  they  are  sued  is  in 
no  way  connected  with  the  estate  of  Mis.  EacJeet. 
But  when  the  defendants  go  further  and  assert 
that  if  it  were,  they  would  not  be  liable  to  answer 
it,  because  the}' sre  only -authorized  to  recover, 
they  carry  the  ])rincip'e  too  far,  Tlxey  'are. 
authorizc-tl  to  recover  the  estate'or  the  inheritance, 
which  includes  the  debts  a's  Well  as  the  credits; 
and  therefore  when  claiming  the  assets,  they  are 
bound  (o  ,meet  every  claim  ag;\inst  such  estate. 
The  estate  coming  to  the  heirs  is  in  fact  nothing 
more  than  the  bmus  after  payment  oi  the  debts. 
"  As  to  \h(iihinl  jioifit,  tlierc  can  be  no^doiibt 
that  if  the  d-efeiidants'  constituents  be  al.-^o  the  heirs' 
of  ilf .  P.  Racket,  they  are  rcipinsiblo  fur.hia 
debt?,  and  so  is  all  their  properly  hov>'cver  origi- 
nally acquired,  a  covfusfo  hsmormn  having  arisen 


[  IGl  ]■ 


•  issr 


SkS  regnrils  tliom  from  the  time  tliey  assumed  tlie 
responsibility  of  licirs  to  their  fatlief'.'  But  \vlie- 
ilier  they  have  assumed  this  responsibility  or  not, 
is  a  point  that  nnist  be  settled  by  a  separate  action 
directed  against  them. 

And  xthelhcv,  four iTilj/,  the  remedy  in  such 
action  shouhi  be  by  Ediciile  Citation  or  by  Scques- 
•  tration  under  rule  15  sec.  I  of  the  Itules  and 
Orders;  is  a  point  which  cannot  now  be  resolved 
by  the  Coiirt,  althongh  it  appears  tolerably  clear; 
but  the  real  parties  are  not  before  it.  The  Ap- 
pellants must  therefore  seek  ou't  their  remedy." 
No.  4,000,  D.  C.  Jaffna,  (J.) 


502. — P'eria  Carpen  Chettij  v.  A.  Wirappen. 

In.  this  case,  the  jndgnient  pronounced  by  the 
Supreme  Court  (on  an. appeal  by  the  defendant) 
is  as  follows : 

"  Nothing  appears  in  this  case  to  prove  the 
debt  of  Rds.Sl  but  the  defcadant's  own  admission 
(far  the  plaintiff's  witnesses  enly  prove  for  Rds.  6.) 
But  this  admission  should  be  taken  entire  and  not 
severed,  ,  He  admits'  he  hon-oued,  but  in  the  same 
breath  declajres  he  paid.  This  circumstance, 
coupled  with  the  evidence  regarding  the  payuient 
of  the  £1,  would  induce  the  Court  to  consider 
that  payment  as.  proved,  and  to  reduce  the  judg- 
ment to'Us  6d,  without  costs."— No.. 3,648,  D.  C. 
futlam  (J.) 


TUe  admis-, 
S'on  of  a  Party 
should  be  tak- 
.  en  entire. 


'  ,6.03. — In  the  estate  of  P.  Enno  Hamy. 
M.  P.  Don  Andries,  Administrator-^Appellant.     jjeglect  of  Ad- 


No  doubt  gre^t  vigilance  should  be  exercised 
over  Administrators,,  and  therefore  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  Secretary  arc  perfectly  jegnlar.  But 
considering  all  the  circumstances  of  this  case,  that 
ample  time'has  been  afforded  to  other  parties  to 
claim  this  estate,  that  it  does  fiot  appear  that 
there  are  any  creditors,  and  that  the  Adrninistrator 
hai  for  a  length  of  time  been  serioualy  ill,  he  is 


ministrator, 
how  far  ex- 
cused, 


1837 


.[162] 

slioweil  to  continue  in  tliopossegsion  of  tlic  esfnta, 
of  which  lie  may  be  considered  rattier  in  the  light 
of  an  nndispnted  iiropvietor  than  a  mere  sdminis- 
trstor. — No.  4,  D.  C.  Amblangodde,  (J.) 


June  21  (E.  J.  St.) 

*■- 

504 — In  the  estate  oi  SuperynarLian  Perianhelami  ■ 

.  *    ■  .  '  '  ■  ■ 

„         ,  „  S.  Sinnetamhu  v.  Omeatte.  ■ 

Proof  of  Mar-  "^ 

legiiimation  By  a  former  decree  of  the  Stiprpine  Court  proof 
ijy  subsequent  -jvaa  required  of  the  OpponeRt  {Omeatte  s)  niani- 
ilamage.  ege'with  the  deceased;  and  that  there  iras  a  son 
by  that  nrarriage  horn  to  tbe_  deceased.  The 
proof  of  tlic  marriage  was  subsequently  supplied 
ty  the  Cegistry,  prodiicsd  by  the  WannfoJi..  Ai 
regards  the  son,  a  certificate  of  his  baptism  was 
produced,  mentioning  the  name  of  the-parents". 
And'the  Supreme  Court  held  that  this,  coupled 
■xvith  the  Marringe  Registry,  vras  all  that  need  have 
l)een  produced  by  the  Opponent ;  as  it  was  clear 
law  tliat  a  subsequent  marriage  renders  the  iagiie 
legitimate.— No.  3,835,  I).  C.  Trincomalie,  (J.} 


Contempt  of 
Court  — 
Indecorous  ob- 
servations on 

a  District 

.  Court. 


SOo. — Eedopaddy  v.  Becjekenhoff, , 

Tlie  defcnllant  in.  this  casp,  a  Notary  practisii^ 
within  the  District  of  Wadinwratchy^  had  m1- 
dressetl  a  lelteV  to  the  Supreme  Court  complaining 
of  having  I)een  wrongly  summoned  ;.  to  wliich  ha 
received  a  reply  informing  him  that  the  Snjjrema 
Court  could,  not  interfere  in  the  matter  ;  and  tb|(fc 
the  proper  coui-se  for  Kim  to  pursue  Avas  to  put  ni 
his  plea  to  that  effect,  and  if  that  be  over-nileil, . 
to  appeal  against  the  order. 

Instead  however  of  appearing  before  theDiatrist 
Court,  he  filed  a  Petition  against  an  order  obtain- 
ed by  defaiilt,  and  in  that  petition  made  indeco«. 
tous  observations  on  the  proceedings  of  the  Distfiet 
Court.       '  ■        ■  ■ 

Such  a  proceeding  (he  Supreme  Coui:,t  thotiglit 


[  1G3  1  mi 

it  to' lie  its'  tlnty  to  ninrk  witli  sercre  rcpi'fiionrtons 
The  I'ctiLioii  was  tlipi'cfore  clisuiisscd  aa  in-oi;'iiLiv  ; 
r.nd  th'o.  Petiupnev  fined  Twenty  sliiliingH  fur  con- 
tempt of  the  Uistnct  Court,  No.  IjioT.  D.  C 
Wadimoratchj/  ( J .)  • 


June  24,  (R.  J.  St.) 
'  50G,— In  tlio  mntter  -of  Don  Vincentl. 

The  King's  Advocate  tendered  an  affidavit  of  Arpjioatioinf^n- 
Jjon  I  t«ce);h,  stating  tiiat  on  the  12th  Instant,  in.  ciimpd  a 
a  Medical  Sub- Assistant,  Mv.  John Loftus,  \w\  lU.  tonocept 
Rfter' examination  ccilifisd  a  Son  of  the  deponent's 
to  be  affected  with  Sniail-Pox  ;  and  that  on  llic 
14th  inst.  tlie  deponent  ha.d  applied  to  I).  A.  Blair 
•Esq.,  the  Judge  of  the  District  Court  of  Columbo, 
No.  1  South,  to  allow  him  to  enter  into  the  usual 
Bond,  cpnfonnably  to  the  .Governor's  InstruGtions 
of  the  lith  March  1837,  and  that  the 'said  Judge, 
refused  luch  application  ;  and  he  thereupon  moved 
for  a  Mandate,  in  the  nat'ure  of  a  Mandamus,  to 
the  said  Jndge,  requiring  liira  to  allow  the  said  . 
JJon  Vincenti  to  enter  into  the  nsual  Bond.  And 
the  Supreme-Court  granted  a  rule  requiring  the 
■fikid  Jndge  to  sliew  cause  why  such  mandate- 
should  not  issue. 

On  a  subsequent  date, 


tCtUDlT. 


June2G,  (R.J.  St.) 

No  cause  being  shown,  the  Rule  was  made  ab-. 
golnte.  and  a  mandate  in  the  iiatxire  of  a  writ  of 
^Mandamus  was  issuecJ  to  the  said  D.  A.  Blait, 
U.  J.  as  aforesaid,,  commanding  him  as  roqinred 
by  the  said  Instructions  to  take  the  Bond  of  the 
taid  Doyi  Vincenti  in  conformity  witl-i  ths  .ipplica- 
tion  made  by  him,  or  that  lie  do  shew  causa  to  the 
contrary  on.  Wednesday  next. 

June  28,  (R.  J.  St.) 

Gn  this  day,  upon  the  production  of  the  Insljuc- 
tions  of  the  lith   Maixh  1837  from  11.  E.tha 


)P37 


[  164  ] 


Governor  to  the  D.  J.,  and  on  a  comparison  of  (liy 
Fame  with  the  writ  of  Mandamus  issued, it  ajipear- 
cd  that  tliey  -n-ere  not  in  coherence  with  oach  other, 
and  scarcely  sufficiently  imperative  on  Mr.  Blair 
for  the  Snpreme  Court  to  grant  the  jVIanJaraiis 
]iray8d  forj  to  enforce  his  compliance  therewith. 
The  said  writ  was  therefore  diaehar-ed. 


June  29,  (J.) 


Authority  to 
flct  fts  Curator 
ad  Ittem, 


Transfer  of  a 

cause,   on   the 

■  gi*ound  of  im- 

Itroper    pro- 

eoedings  of  a 

I).  J. 


007.— ^Fullf'-j/en  Welen  v.  Parjpadj/  'WalXy. 

This  case  had  been  on  a  former  occasion  rjefer*- 
red  back  to  the  Court"  below  to  ascertain  whether 
the  present  plaintiff  (who  had  been  the  2ik1  plain- 
tiff in  a  previous  suit.  No.  5,839,  in  which  tlio  1st 
])laintiff  sued  on  his  behalf.)  was  really  a  minor  at 
the  time,  and  if  bo,  what  authority  the  joint  plain- 
tiff in  the  former  suit  possessed  to  represent  him. 
No  such' authority -was  howev-er  pTodi>ccd  ;  and  the 
ca.^c  having  been  returned  to  the  Snpreme  Court, 
Jeremie  J',  now  pronounced  judgment  as  follows  : 

"  It  ii  clear  that  the  plaintiff's  relative,  ihen 
palled  Uncle,  now  Cousin,  had  not  any  authority 
to  proceed  in  the  minor's  name. 

"  As  to  the  mode  adopted  by  the  District  Judge 
.for  setting  aside  his  predecessor's  solemn  record, 
by  calling  as  a  witness  to  prove   the  plaintiff  to 
have   been  twenty- two  'years  of  age,  the   very 
person  who  on  the  fiice  of  his -original  Libel  had 
admitted  that  his  co-plaintiff  required  some  one  to 
represent  him,  and  then  drawing  vague  sm-mises-. 
from  depositions  in  the  cause  to  which  the  present 
plaintiff,  as  a  minor,  was  not  legally  a  party^ — thus 
making  him,  according  to  some  part  of  the  evi- 
dence, about  thirty,  wuen  lie  had  been  pronounced, 
on  view  by  the  former  Judge  in  No.  5,859  to  be 
"  under  fourteen ;"  it  ia   so    unexampled,    that, 
coupled  with  the  circumstance  of  that  Court'having 
repeatedly  expressed  an  unusually    vehement  and 
erroneous  opinion  on  this  and  its  connected  cases, 
the  Supreitio  Court  feels'  liound,   without  in   any 
■way  ^uestio^nisg  the  parity  of  mstive  or  integrity 


ties  J 

of  piir.po'se  of  tlie  "District  Judge,  to   exorcise  the 
powers  confided  to  if  by  Sec.  3G  of.tlie  Ckartcr. 

"  The  (kuree  of  the  Comt  Uelow,  \vhich  was  in 
favour  of  the  defendant,  was  tlifnfore  set  aside, 
«nd  the  case  oi'dered  to  be  Jicard  de  novo,  without 
any  reference  io  the  former  suit  No.  5,859  :  and  it  ■ 
was  also 'decreed  that  the'  furtiier  proeeedinga 
should  take  place  before- the  D.O.  ofWaclii^oratchj/. 
No.  1,806,  D.  C.  Tenmoratchi/^  {J .)  " 


1SS7.. 


508  -^Edenadm-cgey  v.  Rangoddegey  &  others. 

The  plaintiff,  a.s  wi.e  of  one  Abere,  claimed  half    jnint-nv-ricrs 
■of  certain. lands  wliicli  had  b«en  possessed   bj' the       oiLainl. 
•comnion  ancestors  of  her    husband  and"  the  defori-    ,, ., 
ila-nts.     At  the  trial  ot  the  case,  her  marruvgo  \Mth    tainiu"  sharte. 
Ahere  was  snlfisfactorily  proved,  under   the  Regu- 
lation of  the  Olli  of  August  lu22  ;  and  the  qnes'tion 
iu  appeal  w-as,  what  share  of  the  proj:>e>ty  in  dis- 
pute belonged  fo  Ahere. 

Jcr-eniie  J^ — The  three  defendants  are  proved 
to  be  descended  from  the- sister  of  Abere  s  mother, 
jiftere  does  not'appear  to  h-ave  had  any  brothers 
or  sisters— at  least  none  are  present  to  disturb  his 
claim.  He  is  therefore  at  present  to  be  presumed 
to  have  liad  none  ;  and  as  each  of  the  defendants 
clijoyed  a  sixth, '^Sere's.  Aunt  mnst  have  obtain- 
oda  half  of  the  joint  inheritance.  The  pther  half 
is  therefore  the  share  belonging  to  pliii^'ff.-  As 
to  the  circumstance  that  the  precise.  ])ortions  be- 
loiiging  to  Abere  are  stated  with  tinccrtainty  by 
■the  witneisses,  it  is  at  all  times  difficult,  wheii^ 
propjrty  is  so  greatly  subdivided,  to  ascertain  the 
•exact  shares  by  oral  testimony,  of  posse.ision  ;.  and 
here  it  is  the  more  difBcnlt,  that  tho'  the  })laintiff 
claims  lirdf  the  property  possessed  by  h«r  husbnnd 
and  the  defendant's  common  aneeKto'r, .  she  does 
not  claim  the  h&H  oi  any  particular  ficM.  She. 
claims- half  a  corney  from  one  field,  a  ocrnoy  ami 
a  half  from  another,  evidently  admitting  that  there 
are  other  proprietors  of  each  piece  of  land,  over 
whose  share  she  pretends  to^  have  no-  claim,  and 
'who  probably  possess  under  a  totally  different 
tiile. 


ISW 


[  160  ] 


Tho  pLdntiff  U  therefore  ilerlarcd,  jointly  \\\'.]i 
her  ehiidreri,  to  he  owner  of  all  the  Jjrujierty  for- 
nu'rlj'  possoKsed  hj'  lifr  hnshoiul  Abere,  which 
property  is  fsirthirrdeclared  t  ■  be  a  portion  equal  to 
that  possessed  hy'tho  then  d^fisndanfscoivjoiutly  in 
Jn  lRme'.)t  nnt  the  laads  inherited  by  them  frcfm  their  and  Abere  i 
'Aim- "  eommon  ancestors ;  provided  that  tho  share  so 
libtl'.  awarded  to  the  plaintiff  shall  not  in  any  case  ex-' 
ceed  th»  exteju  obtained  by  hc^-  libel.  No.  2,4;(J2, 
D.  C.  Matura.  (J.) 


aiMuuiiL  clivim 
!•■{  ill  tilt 


July,  5,  (R.  J.) 
SQO*—  BaddeUj/enege^  Von  Btntian  and  others 

V. 

Duna  Agcda  widow  of  Baddeliijeuegey  Don 
Siman.  •» 

j?«  jLiiii::h!—     This  was  a  snit  tonr-hing  a  garden  called  Pe'/e- 
IVcMriiiiive      ^i^alle  whit'h  had  already  lieen  the,  sn!:ioct   of  five 

I'll  !-i;,-.um     of  .  .  ..  •'      ,  ,     •> 

Sar\k-ti'ar-       actions,  owing  to  ilisputfis  between  tlietame  partiG» 
ymy  Umds.        or  their   immediate   connexions.     Two   ot   these 
suits,  Nos.  lii, 606  and  13,681,  had  been  determined 
by  Marshall  0.  J.,  on  the  11th  Octoher  1833. 

In  tho  former  one,  Baddtliyenegey  Bon,  BasHan 

(the'pro.«!ent  plaintiff)  and  the  widow  of  Waftegcy 

Aiitln'es    Fernando    sued    Litjcneraalegey   Soemij 

ISiUa  for  tv^■o-eigllth3  of  the  above  gardi-n,  .which 

tlipy  stated  he  had   unlawfully  surveyed,  though 

tlieir.j  I*  right  of  inheritance.  The  defendant  ans- 

■wcred  that  the.  Felleicattt  which  he  had  si.rvcyufl 

Mas  ano.tber  garden  to  the   South   of  the   one  in 

■  qtiestiiin,  the   latter    being  Pa.veny,    the   former 

Ralwaharre.     The  plaintiffs  in  tiieir  Replication, 

however,  persisted  that  thegarden  surveyed  was 

the  one  claimed  by  them  and  not   the  Raimaharre 

land  ;  adding  that  "  from  the  land  no  surveyed  by 

the -defendant,  .one-eighth  belonged   to  his  talh'er- 

■ja-iaw  and  iiis  (the  father-in-law's)  brothecs,   anil^ 

one-eighth  to  his  mother-in-law  and  her  brothers  ; 

and  that  these  two-eights    had  been  formerly  uur- 

veyed  (in  January  1827)  in  the  name  of  his,  tha 

defendant's,  mother-in-law,  in  right  of  her  and  her 

husband."     On  reference  to  the  survey  of  January 


[167  J 

1S27,  it  appeared  to  be  the  survey  of  "  a  part  of  a 
garden  called  Pellewatte  the  property  of  B.  Don 
Sijnan  deceased,  now  possessed  by  his  wife  Dona 
j^.g'ecia;"  and  bounded  on  the  North-West,'  and. 
South  by  the  other  parts,  and  on  the  East  by  the 
garden  Pelhwatte-paale-owitte  ;  while  the  Survey 
in  question  (of  the  14th  March  1831)  purported 
to  be  of  a  garden  Pellewatti-paale-owitte  "  said  to 
belong  to  the  defendant."  And-  evidence  having 
been  heard  iu  this  suit,  it .  was  proved  that  tho 
garden  in  dispute  was  the  Pellewatte  and  not  the 
Pellewatte-pacde-owitte ;  and  that  together  with 
the  then  plaintiff's  land,  the  defendant  had  caused 
to  be  surveyed  a  portion  A,  which  had  been  sur- 
veyed by  his  mother-in-law  "in  January  1827, — 
and  with  reference  to  which  the  plaintiff  stated 
"  which  share  the  defendant's  mother-in-ljiw  is  en- 
titled to,  and  they  have  nb  claim  thereto."  And 
the  District  Judge  decreed  "  that  the  defendant 
should  leave  to  the  plaintiff  the  unmolested  pos- 
session of  thztt  part  of  Pellewatte  now  in  dispute 
marked  No.  1."  [In  this  suit  it  did  not  appear 
that  the  tenure-  of  the  land  had  been -distinctly 
explained  :  though  it  was  by  implication  pronounc- 
ed to  be  Eatmaharre,  and  might  also  be  said  by 
implication  to  have  been  declared  private  property, 
and  not  service-parveny,  since  it  was  in  part  ad- 
judged to  a  female  and  possessed  by  females^] 

The  other  suit  No.  13,681,  against  the  same  de- 
fendant arose .  oi\t  of  the.  same  survey  and  was 
brought  fur  the  remainder  of  the  garden  by  other 
heirs,  who  claimed  it  by  right  of  inheritance  and 
purchase.  It  was  again  stated  by  the  defendant 
to  be  Eatmaharre  :  but  was  on  tliis  occasion  dis- 
tinctly pronounced  to  be  service-parveny  :  tho 
plaintiffs  (who  claimed  in  right  of  females  or  by 
purchase)  being  thus  non-suited. 

The  garden  was  thus  distinctly  declared  to  be 
service-parveny  in  the  one  case,  and  presumed  to 
be  inheritance  or  simple-pavveny  in  the  other. 
The  defendant  had  thus  won  the  former  suit  (No. 
13,606)  only  for  a  time.  He  was  only  connected 
with  the  family  by  marriage,  and  four  of  tho 
female  heirs  (parties  to  No.  13,G81)  having  been 
Uefeated,  the  male  heirs  at  once  stepped  forward 


1837. 


1887 


[163  ] 


t»  claim  po^eesioij.  This  gave  rise  to  the  tli^ree  • 
other  suits  Nos,  140,  400,  and  497,  all  between 
the  same  defendants,  (L.  Soesey  Silva)  and  thu 
male  branches  of  his  wife's  family  :  and  these  suitg 
ended  in  the  male  heirs  being  finally  confirmed  in 
the  possession  oT  six-eighths  of  the  garden,  it  hav- 
ing been  declared  on  each  oceasion,  in  conformity 
to  the  decision  in!No.  18,681,  to  be  service-par veny. 
These  four  decisions  having  in  the  opinion  of 
the  present  plaintiffs,  .settled  the  question  as  to  the 
tenure  in  their  favour  as  male  heirs,  they  brought 
the  present  case  to  prevent  the  present  defendant 
(the  mother-in-law  of  the  former  defendant)  dis* 
posing-  of  the  portions  which  in  1827  she  had  cans* 
ed  to  be  surveyed,  and  of  which  he  had  ever  since 
been  in  possession.  This  action  the  District  Judge 
dismissed  with  costs,  his  opinion  being  founded  1. 
on  the  admissions  in  thB'first  case  No.  13,606; — 
!  2.   the   circumstance  that  the  defendant  had  not 

heen  a  party  to  any  of  the  other  four  cases,  and  S. 
on  Prescription. 

The  Supreme  Court  however  reversed  this  de- 
cision, and  per  Jeeemik  J- — "  Neither  of  the 
gi'ounds  alleged  by  the  Court  beloW  is  oenelusive 
or  satisfactory.  It  is  true  the  defendaut  was  not 
a  party  to  either  of  the  four  last  suits;,  but  it  is 
equally  true  she  was  not  a  party^to  the  first.  The 
decision  in  that  case  is  not  therefore  a  regjvdicata. 
"With  regard  to  her,  therefore,  the  question  is 
Aitniisslon  ofa  still  open ;  and  as  to  admissions  made  iti  the  course 
'''°  v?".'k  "r '^"  of  the  case,  it  must  be  remembered  that  thes& 
were  made  only  by  one  of  the  parties  to  the  pre- 
sent suit,  and  at.a  time  w  hen  the  question  as  to 
tenure  was  not  before  the  Court.  All  the  iFemale 
heirs  were  then  in  possession  ;  they  have  all  been 
since  ousted  by  the  conduct  of  her  own  son-in-law ; 
and  though  this  need  not  necessarily,  aifect  herself, 
still -she  must  shew  some  additional  title  which 
renders  her  position  different  from  that  of  the 
other  female  heirs,  before  she  can  expect  an  ex- 
ception, to  be  made  in  her  favour.  This  additional 
title  she  does  not  shew  ;  for  even  the  survey  is  of 
land  "  belonging  to  her  deceased  husband"  ;  and 
this  survey,  with  the  admissions,  would  'prove  »t 


binding. 


[169] 


1837 


beat  bnt  %«  ttBtaoIested  po^sessian  at  tb»  tima  it 
was  made. 

"  The  question  is  tberefoM  narrowed  to  tMs; . 
— I>oe3  the  Ordinance  relstive  to  preBcriptir* 
posses^oTt  ftv.ail  sgainst  the  Servieff-Parveny 
Regnktisa  of  181)9;  or,  in  other  words,  can 
females  or  purchasers  acquire  a  title  to  Bervice- 
parveny  lands  a*  agaiBst  beira  male,  by  ten  years' 
possession. 

"  The  Goftrt  is  of  opinion  that  tliey  eaimot. 
Questions  of  ten  ore  are  matters  of  pwbJie  policy, 
wbich  are  governed  by  thIcb  perfectly  ladependent 
©f  the  private  interieats  of  iadivtdaak, — the  latter 
becoBsiDg  merely  a  secondary  eonsideratiow.  In 
iche  case  No.  1S,681,  possesion  .  (for  possesfiion  in 
that  case  was  scarcely  a  debateable  point,)  wag 
not  allowed  to  avail  against  this  law,  and  justly 
not ;  iwr  can  it  here  i  for  though  under  the  altered 
circumstances  of  the  Colony,  tbe  policy  of  main- 
tainfog  the  Regul»ti<>D  O'f  1809  may  be  qnestioned', 
this  isi  matter  for  the  eonfflderatioii  of  the  legiala- 
tare  »lon«, 

"  The  male  heirs  are  therefore  declared  the 
sole  proprietoTB  of  tbe  garden  PellmvttUe ;  but 
withoBt  costs."    No.  S-.SS*,  D.  C.  CalHra  (J.) 


ServicfrParre- 

No  prescripH- 

on  against 

Male  Heirs. 


510. — Achy  Umma  v.  Mdhamadot  LtVhe. 

"  On  the  motion  of  Mr.  H.  Staples,  Proctor 
for  the  Appellant,  stating  that  the  District  Judge 
of  Caltwa  reftfsed  to-  receive  the  Petitioa  of  the 
Appellant  in  consetjuenee  of  the  stamped  paper 
not  having  been  purchased  from  the  Secretary  of 
the  I>;  C  of  Calfura  :  It  is  ordered  that  the  said 
District  Judge  do  receive-  the  said  Petition  as  an 
Appeal  Petition.  It  matters  not  where  stam.ps 
are  purchased  from."     No.  8,567  D.  C.  Caltura, 


Stamps. — 
The  Courtis  ■ 
boand  to  i  e- 
ceive  a  docu- 
ment, wher- 
ever tlie  stamp 
may  have  been 
ijU'jrcIiased 
fi'om. 


July  12,  (R.  X>  • 

511.— -^B^beterje  Goeroenanselagey  v.  Von  CKrit- 
tian  Arachy. 
"Ibcjeare  two  points  regardins  the  law  of    P'-esc iption. 


1  e87 


[170] 


Pofifiession  pre- 
sumed to  be 
adverse,  uut  1 
the  contrary  is 
shewn. 


Prescription,  that  should  be  always  well  borne  in 
riiind  ;  or  else  from  that  law  beiug  a  most  whole- 
some one  it  may  be  rendered  pregnant  with  in- 
justice. Theirs*  is  that  a  possessor  is  nlwayg 
presumed  to. hold  in  his  own  right,  and  as  proprie- 
tor, nntil  the  contrary  be  demonstrated ;'  the 
second,  that  the  contrary  being  once  established, 
and  it  being  shewn  that  the  possession  commenced 
by  virtue  of  some  other  title,  such  as  that  of 
tenant  or  plaater,  then  the  possession  is.  to  he 
presumed  to  have  continued  to  hold  on  the  same 
terms,  until  he  distinctly  proves  that  his  title  has 
changed.  In  the  present  case  all  the  doQumenta 
and  much  of  the.  oral'  evidence  shew  that  the 
defendant  and  his  predecessors  were  the  proprie- 
tors, the  plaint)£f  and  his  predecessors  the  planters; 
and. there  is  no  document  or  other  satisfactory 
and  unequivocal  proof  to  explain  how  or  at  what 
period  these  respective  relations  were  changed, 
or  that  they  ever  have  been  changed.  For  the 
fact  that  the  plaintiff  was  allowed,  (being  then  the 
acknowledged  owner,  as  planter,  of  part  of  the 
produce,)  to  sow  a  portion  of  the  garden  with 
vegetables,  or  to  fence  in  the  new  plantation, 
proves,  under  such  circumstances,  only  the  for- 
bearance of  the  acknowledged  owner,  an.d  not  that 
he  had  renounced  his  rights  as  proprietor.  No. 
2,889.    D.  C.  Caltura,  (J.)  .    " 


Application  to 
sue  infenna 
pauperis. 
Mode  of  Pro- 
cedure. 


612. — In  the  matter  of  Parmer  Wyreweaaden. 

This  was  an  appeal  against  an  order  of  the  Court 
below  dismissing  a  Petitionpraying  to  be  allowed 
to  sue  in  forma  pauperis.  The  Court  had  entered 
into  evidence  as  to  certain  statements  made  by  and 
against  the  petitioner,  and  thereupon  pronounced 
the  order  now  appealed  against. 

Jeremie  J. — Although  there  can  be  little 
doubt  of  the  ultimate  result  of  the  suit,  yet  these 
pyoceedings  mu.st  be  set  aside  for  irregularity. 
The  course  to  be  adopted  on  applications  to  sue 
in  forma  pauperis  is  set  forth  in  the  42nd  and 
subsequent  clauses  of  the  Rules  and  Orders,  and 
should  be  strictly  adhered  to.    If  there  had  been 


[171] 


W3T. 


a  previous  application,  the  order  referring  ttat 
application  to  a  Proctor  ought  to  have  been,,  and 
no  doubt  would  have  been,  recorded  ;  and  if  so 
witnesses  should  not  have  been  heard  to  that 
point  until  the  records  were  duly  searched.  But 
according  to  the  present  proceedings,  the  case  is 
disposed  of  on  the  merits,  tiiough  the  petition  be 
merelj'  to  be  permitted  to  sue  as  a- pauper.  The 
proceedings  are  therefore  set  aside,  and  the  Peti- 
tion is .  to  be  referred  to  a  Proctor  in  the  usual 
form  ;  except  legal  proof  be  produced  that  a  pre- 
vious, application  of  a  similar  nature  has  been 
rejected. 


July  17.  (J.) 

513. —  Van  Heh  v.  Martensz. 

Toussaint,  Intervenient. 

Ehell  and  others,  Claimants. 

This  case  was  taken  up  on  the  17th  July  on  a 
petition  presented  by  the  Claimants.  The  facts 
of  the  case  are  fully  set  out  in  the  Judgment. 

Jeebmie  J.— On  the  14th  October  1836  the 
executors  of  the  estate  of  J.  Verwyck  made  ap- 
plication to  the  D.  C.  of  Jaffna  for  certain  papers 
belonging  to  J.  A.  Martensz,  an  Insolvent.  This 
was  opposed  by  two  several  persons,  the  Insolvent 
himself,  and  F.  A.  Toussaint  as  Attorney  of  Mr. 
J.  Vanderspaar ;  and  on  the  25th  October  re- 
jected by  the  Court. 

■"  On  the  2nd  November  the  Executors,  filed 
their  Appeal  Petition ;  on  which  occasion  they 
saw  fit  to  omit  the  name  of  the  2nd  opponent 
Toussaint  as  a  party  thereto  ;  and  further  by  an 
endorsement  on  the  petition  by  the  Executors  oti 
the  one  hand  and  Martensz  on  the  other,  the  lat- 
ter dated  11th  November,  it  is  evident  th&t  Mar- 
tensz, and  Martensz  alolie,  was,,  in  conformity  to 
their  own  Petition;  rendered  a  respondent  to  that 
appeal. 

Various  proceedings  were  then  had  in  appeal. 
The  case  appeared  twice  in  the  Supreme  Court, 
and  the  original  decree  was  finally  modified.  This 


Costs  of  party, 
who  has  been 
dropped  in  the 
course  <if  the 

proceedings. 
iJemoDstranoe 
agaii'St    order 

ofthe    S.  C. 

Contempt  of 
Court; 


tmr 


led  to  additional  proceedimga  in  the  D.  C,  which 
closed  on  the  2.ii(i  Febreary  k&t.  In  lione  of 
these  sBbsequeoli  pfcxpeedings  whether  in  appeal 
©r  before  th«  D.  C,  does  it  appear  by  the  recced 
thai,  Tova^cdwi  was  rendered  a  parly. 

«  But  tbe  proceedings,  being  finaffy  cfosed,  th* 
executors,  on  the  same  day,  tbe  2»d  February, 
moved  that  the  costs  of  the  appeal  or%iDatiiig  in 
the  deeree  ®f  the  25th  Oetober  and  the  petition  of 
the  2nd  November,  should  be  defrayed  jointly  by 
the  opiponent  Met/rtemsx,  whora  they  had  made 
their  respondent  througho'Rt,.  asd  the  oppoHent 
Toussaint,  whom  they  had  left  aside.  Aed  this 
motion  having  on  the  €th  February  been  acceded 
to,  the  oitder  of  that  date  was  reversed  by  the 
Supreme  Court  on  the  Slst  May  last,  inasmuch  as 
regarded  the  appellant  ToussaLnt,  he  alone  having 
appealed  ;  and  the  Court  declared  that  he  "  Tout- 
taint  could  only  be  rendered  liaeble  for  the  costs 
incurred  in  his  presence  aoid  when  be  had  notice 
to  attend,",  in  other  words,  that  he  could  at  the 
utmost  but  he  charged  with  tie  costs,  if  amy,  of 
Jhe  appea.ran«e8  and  orders  of  the  lltb  and  95th 
October,  to  'whieh  he  wais  a  party ,'  and  that  b9 
eould  not,  on  any  imaginable"  principle  of  law  or 
reason,  be  held  liable  for  eosts  incurred  in  pro- 
ceedings to  which,  from  whatever  causes,  he  had 
never  been  made  a  party  j  and  therefore  that  he 
could  ifot  be  ealad  to  pay  any  portioa  ctf  the  costs 
in  appeal. 

"  On  a  matter  so  purely  ekmentsry  and  alpha* 
betical,  the  executors  have  thiowght  fit  twiee  to 
remonstrate  with  this  ■Co-nrt. 

"  Oh  the  first  occasion,,  tbe  Court  in  the  hop* 
ef  ternainating  all  disputes  eoBsented  to  expfeBi 
— what  reqimired  bo  explanation — its-  orrgin«d'  de- 
gree. This  act  of  condesGeasion  has  omly  led  ta 
a  second  reference,  when  the  execBtors,  withe&t 
adducing  any  one  single  new  fact,  .reqwire  to  be 
heard  a  third  time  on  the  same  plsuaand  sin  pie 
subject-matter  :  a<nd  they  have,  it  app^airsv  rela/ini- 
cd  counsel.  Heard,  against  the  0ourt'8-\:leyberate 
and  recorded  judgm«i»t,  comiBsel  eannot  be.  It 
must  be  excuited  to  the  letter.  But  heard  ooitnael 
may  be,  provided-  he  be  prepaired  to  appeaa;  fostk- 


[173] 


11537 


witft,  on  this  furtTier  question,  wliich  the  Court 
feels  bound  in  vindication  of  itg  own  authority  to 
determine,  viz  :  What  further  penalty  shall  he 
levied  on  these  parties,  as  a  cheek  on  the  remon- 
strances, which,  as  now  advised,  appear  to  the 
Court  equally  frivolous,  vexatious,-  and  puerile; 
and  wh  eh  has  notwithstanding  been  urged  over 
and  over  again,  in  defiance  of  all  rule,  with  tha 
most  contumacious  pertinacity;  The  execution  t>f 
this  Courtis  solemn  and  definite  judgment  is  in 
the  mean  time  suspended." 

"  On  the  following  day  the  Court,  after  hearing 
counsel  on  this  pojnt,  delivered  judgment  as  fol- 
lows : 

19.     July,  (J.) 

Jereuie  J.— The  Court  will  now  proceed  to 
examine  the  reasons  assigned  for  this  unpreceden* 
ted  step.  The  remonstrants  state  that  they  could 
not  render  Toussaint  a  party  to  the  appeal  peti* 
tion  of  the  2nd  November.  Why  not  ?  He  had 
appeared  in  the  cause,  had  iiled  and  signed  an 
objectio-Q,  been  heard  upoii  and  succeeded  in  es- 
tablishing it  in  the' Court  below.  What  then  was 
to  prevent  his  bein^  made  a  party  to  the  proceed- 
ings— taken  for  the  express  purpose  of  overruling 
his  objection  in  appeal  ?  .  Nothing,  either  techni- 
cally or  substantially  The  respondents,  when 
they  required  he  should  be  condemned  in  costs, 
cotitrived  to  make  him  a  party,  and  havekept  him 
in  the  suit  ever  sinee^  Why  then  not  have  made 
him  so  before  ?  For,  if  he-  conld  become  an 
appellant,  he  could  be  made  a  respondent.  There 
is  no  limit  to  the  possible  number  of  intervenients; 
and  every  person  who  takes  part  in  a  suit  and 
who  is  not  either  plaintiff  or  aefendant,  is  an 
inter  venient. 

They  next  attribute  the  error  or  omissionto 
the  Secretary  of  the  Court.  -What  then  ?  Is  a 
party  to  be  condemned  uncalled,  or  rendered 
responsible  in  pitrse  and  person  for  proceedings  to 
which  he  is  a  stranger,  under  any  possible  or 
imaginable  contingency?  If  there  be  fault  in  the 
Secretary,  he  and  he  alone  is  responsible  for 
his  faults ;  but  the  fact  is,  ia  the  present  caee, 


Eenionatvance  _ 
against  au  or- 
der of  the  Su- 
"  prome  Court, 


18^7 


[174] 


Punishment 
ftir  frivolous 
Uti'^ntion.- 


there  was  none  ;  the  fault  lay  with  the  framers  of 
the  original  petition  of  appeal. 
■  The  executors,  finally  ask,  whether  the  Su- 
preme Court's  decree  of  May  is  to  affect  Martensz'} 
]Jid  not  JIfffrtgnz  appeal  ?  If  not,  the  Conrt  is 
not  likely  to  have  committed  precisely  the  same 
mistake  that  caused  the  reversal  of  the  order  of 
the  6th  Fehruary,  in  coming  to  a  decision  on 
Marteniz's  interesta,  when  Martensz  had  not  ap- 
plied to  it :  and  this  is  already  quite  clearly  ex- 
plained in  its  decred. 

As  to  the  authority  -of  the  Court  to  award  dam- 
ages as  costs,  it  has  already  expressed  its  senti- 
ments in  other  cases.  It  is  unacqu.iinted  with  the  . 
practice  of  any  appeal  tribunal  in  modern  or  an- 
cient legislation,  which  has  not  possessed  and 
occasionally  erercise^as  an  undoubted  part  of  its 
appellate  jurisdiction,  the  power  by  an  additional 
iimercement  to  check  ftivolous  and  vexatious 
litigation. 

The  Civil  Law  says  "  Ne  temere  autem  ae 
passim  provocandi  omnibus  facultas  proebetur, 
orbilramur  earn  qui  malam  litem  fuerit persecutus, 
mediocriler  pcenam  a  corkpetenti  judice  suatinere." 
1.  6.  §  4.  Cod.  de  Appell.  Tn  England  there  ara 
three  established  Conrts  of  Appeal, — the  House  of 
Lords,  the  Privy  Coancil,  and  the  Lord  Chancel- 
lor's Court ;  and  in  all  these  arc  increased  costs 
thus  awarded.  In  France,  in  Holland,  the  ap- 
pellant formerly,  as  now,  was  invariably  homid 
to  deposit  a  fine  which  he  forfeited,  if  the  appeal 
proved  frivolous.  See  among'others,  Van  Leeiiwpi, 
y.  646.  b.  v.  ch.  25.  §  18,  And  that  the  Suiirenie 
Court  possesses  all  the  usual  and  aeeustomed 
rights  and  powers  of  Courts  of  Appeal  generally, 
as  Well  as  that  the  tribunals  established  under  fb 
Charter,  possess  all  the  various  rights  and  pow- 
ers universally  attaching  to  Courts  of  Law  and 
Conrts  of  Equity,  appears  beyond  doubt  or  ques-, 
lion.  And  that  .again,  this  power  in  particular 
has  been  occasionally,  but  of  course  discreetly, 
exercised  by  the  Supreme  Court,  as  now  consti- 
tuted, from  the  time  of  its  institution,  is  a  fact 
admitted. 

It  is  true  that  by  various   Statutes  passed  for 


[175]     .  18ST 

the  protection  of  persons  charged  with  duties  hi- 
volying  considerable  responsibility,  such  as  Jus- 
tices of  the  Peace,  it  has  been  expressly  enacted 
by  the  Legislature  of  Great  Britain,  that,  if  any 
persons  who  prosecute  them  shall  fail  in  their 
action,  such  persons  shall  pay  a  penalty  in  tho 
shape  of  double  or  treble  costs ;  and  these  of 
course  being  penal  statutes  cannot  bear  any  ex- 
tension :  but  this  is  quite  a  distinct  branch  of  the 
subject  both  as  regards  the  principle  and  its  ap- 
plication. 

Then  this  pertinacious  jesistance   to   a  final  C6nt;mpt  of 
decree,   whatever   shape   it  takes,  is  in  itself  a        Court 
coiitempt  of  the  authority  which  pronounced  the 
decree  and  as  such   punishable  alike  by  every 
Court  of  Record. 

The  executors  are  therefore,  in  addition  to  all 
other  costs  hitherto  recoverable  against  them, 
adjudged  to  pay  to  the  Appellant  F.  A.  ToussairU ' 
the  further  sum  of  two  pounds  and  ten  ehillinga 
OS  increased  costs  for  frivolous  and  vexatious  liti- 
gation, aud  as  an  indemnification  for  the  delay 
arising  in  the  enforcement  of  the  decree  of  this 
Court  of  the  31st  May  last,— No.  2,225,  D.  C. 
Jaffna.  . 

514. — Heerapitliye  Lehbe  v.  Itobde  and  his  wife 
Pattooma. 
■  The  plaintiff  jn  this  case  claimed   certain  lands  i^^l!!ora1''Be. 
and  moveable  property,  being  the  share  allotted  quest  of  Real 
to  his  brother  hmael  Pulle  in  their  father's  estate,  and  Personal 
on  the  ground  that  the  2nd  defendant  (the  widow     f^'P^"^  ^• 
of  hmael  Pulle)  having  no  issue,  was  not,  accor- 
ding to  the  Mahomedan  law,  entitled  ts  any  of  her 
husband's  property.     The  defendants  (the  Ist  of 
whom  had  married  the  2nd)    pleaded  that  the 
property  had  descended  on  the  2nd  defendant, 
as  the  widow  of  Ismael  Pulle;  that  he  had  a 
daughter  by  her  who  survived  him  ;  and  that  the 
property  had  been  bequeathed  by  Ismael  Pulla 
to  his  widow  and  daughter.     At  the  trial  in  tha 
Court  below,  it  was  proved  that  hmael  PuUe  had^ 
left  a  daughter;    and   oral   evidence   was   also 
received  in  respect  of  the  bequest  alleged  to  have 
bee  nmad«  by  him. 


1887  [  176  j 

The  Supreme  Court  pronounced  judgmtitit  in 
appeal  as  follows  : 

•"  With  regard  to  the  bequest  relied  npoii  by 
the  defetdants,  the  oral  testimony  they  have  of* 
fered  goes  to  confirm  thd  fact.  As  regards  thS 
personal  property,  the  Court  therefore  consider^ 
it  as  belongiiig  to  the  defendants  under  thd 
bequest.  But  «aZ' property  cannot  be  orally 
bequeathed.  It  remains  to  examine  what  is  the 
Mahomedan  law  in  this  particular. 

"  The  Court  has  taken  the  best  information  it 
could  obtain  at  Colombo,*-  aiid  it  appears  that 
the  mother  was  entitled  to  one-eighth  (besides  her 
magger,  which  niagger  however  sjie  must  be  pre- 
Butued  to  have  received)  ;  the  daughter  to  four- 
eighths  or  one-half ;  and  the'  collaterals  to  the 
remaining  three-eighths.  And  as  if  appears 
that  the  plaintiff,  according  to  his  own  statement 
in  his  Petition  of  Appeal,  is  only  one  of  fiv* 
collaterals,  (there  being  three  brothers  and  two 
Bisters  of  the  late  Ismael  Pulle,  surviving  ot 
having  loft  issue),  it  follows  that  he  is.  only 
entitled  to  one-fourth  of  these  three-eighths  of 
RuleofDivisipn  the  real  property;— the  rule  of  division  among 
r-mong  Collate-  collaterals  being  that  the  estate  is  divided  into 
"'^'  eight  parts,  of  which  the  brothers  take  six,  and 

the  two  sisters  two ;  so   that  as  there  are  three 
brothers,  the   one-third  of  the  sister  is  equal  to 
two  shares,  or  one-fourth  of  the  eighth. 
ce..se(l  Uaugh-       "  I'  "o'**^   becomes  further  requisite  to  ascer- 
ter.         tain  who,  according  to  the  Mahomedan  Law,  are 
the  rightfnl  heirs  of  the  deceased  daughter.    And 
it  appears   that  the   Mother  is   entitled  to  one- 
third,  and  the  five  collaterals  to  the  remainder, 
which  is  t,9  be  divided  in  the  same  manner,  viz : 
the  uncles  taking  six  shares  in  eight,  the  aunts 
the  remaining  two." 
^I'ctorf  state-'      Judgment  was  therefore  given  for  the  plaintiff 
menta  of  Plain-  for  3-32  (or  J  of  f );  by  right  of  inheritance  fronl. 
tiff  hmael   Pulle,   and   1- 12th  (or  J  of  f  of  |)  by 

right  of  inheritance  from  his  daughter  ;  but  coil- 

t  The  i'ollowiHg  special  Assessors  liad  been  summoned,  and 
Bat  at -the  hearing  of  the  case,— ^Aaraarfoe  ieJfte  Segoe  Molin- 
maditi  Casim  GanecapuUe ,  tambj/  Rasa  Capetar  Ayiroti  LcHi 
Markar,  and  Oiim  Lebbe  Cajiitar  Mamadoe  Lebtt.  ' 


[  177  ]_  '837 

eideijing  the  nutnerou*  contradictovy  and  -untrue 
Btatem-ents  made  by  the  plaintiff,  'Snd  the  exorbi- 
tance of  the  original  demand,  the  Court  wndenin-. 
ed  him  in  costs,  except  those  of  Appeal,  which 
were  divided.  And  taking  the  value  of  the  r-eal 
property  at  160  riddies,  the  defendants  were  ad- 
judged to  pay  to  the  plaintiff  the,  sum  of  28  rid' 
dies,  deducting  the  coats  of  the  suit.  No.  1.050, 
D.  C  Maddewelletenne,  (J.) 


515. — J)e  Breard  V.  Tennehoon.  Proof  of  a 

.  Bond. 

This  was  an  action  on  a  Bond ;  which  the  de-  Att'stiug  Wit- 
fendant  denied.  After  evidence 'had  been  heard,  nesses. 
tTie  Court. below  gave  judghient  for  the  plaintiff.  HMKlwiiUng. 
The  Notary,  a  reluctant  witness,  could  not,  when 
J)re»sed,  deny  his  signature  to  the  Bond  ;  but  the 
two  attesting  witnesses  were  unable  to  identify 
their  signatures.  Two  other  witnesses  however 
had  spoken  to  the  authenticity  of  the  Bond.  Tlje 
Supreme  Court  in  Appeal,  held  the  Bond  to' have 
1)eeh  sufBcie,ntly  proved;  and  per  Jeremie  J. 
'•  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  constawe  Alt's  curious 
doubts  and  ignorance  as  to  hia  own  signature 
may  be  attributed,  to  the  lapse  of  time  ;  for  that 
it  is  a  forgery  no  one  will  believe  who  is  in  the 
■least  accustomed  to  compare  signatures,  and  who 
compares  his  signature  to  this  Bond,  with  the 
signature  to  his  present  d-eposition.  And  here 
the  Court. thinks  it  fitting  to  observe  that  on  ge- 
neral principles  it  is  inclined  .to  credit  the  authen- 
ticity of  documents  of  this  nature,  rather  "than 
'even  inferentially  to  impute  conspiracy,  forgery, 
and  perjury  to  parties  and  witnesses.  The  trutli 
is  much  more  easily  denied  than  a  circumstantial 
tale  supported  by  documents  of  this  nature  in- 
vented ;  and  a  debtor's  conduct  in  denying  hia 
'■  signature  is  less  dangerous  and  more  intelligible 
than  that  of  a  stranger  or  creditor,  in  forging  it. 
In  this  instance  the  Court  entertains  not  a  doubt 
of  the  anthentieJty  of  the  original  document,  or 
that  it  is  as  well  proved  as  under  the  circum- 
Btances  it  cau  be.     N.0, 1,166,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (J.) 


laST  [  178 1 

61G.—Silva  Cangany  v.  Arnaselam  Canganif. 
The  fact*  of  this  case  were    almost  similar  tff 
'those  of  the  foregoing.   Tlse  Supreme  Court  pro- 
froofof a  Bond,  nounced  judgment  as  foUows : 

"  The  contradictions  in  the  testiinony  of  the 
plaintiff's  third  vritness  are  on  points  purely  col- 
Minor  ^.^^^^  lateral ;  he  swears  distinctly  to  his  having  drawn 
"deuce.       up  the  Bond  and  to  its  due  execution,  whilst 
minor  discrepancies  are   fully   explained  by  the 
lapse  of  time  ;   and  this  testimony,  corroborating 
as  it  does  the  evidence  of  the  second  witness, 
greatly  outweighs  the  suspicious  testimony  of  the 
first,  who  begins  by  denying  a  knowledge  of  any 
dealings  whatever  between   plaintiff  and  defen- 
Authenticity  of  dant,  and  then  recognizes  his  signature,  a  circum- 
Documents  pre-  gjance  which  he  accoimtsfor  very  vmsatisfaclorily. 
''  The  Court  on  genera]  principles  is  inclined  to 
credit- the  authenticity  of  documents  of  the  des- 
cription of  this  Bond^  rather  than  on  slight  grounds 
•   to  impute  forgery  and  double  perjury  to  a  party 
and  witness.     It  can  understand  why  a  debtor 
will  be  prone  to  deny  his  signature,   and  how  a 
single  witness  may  at  the  expiration  of  seven 
years  have  lost  sight  of  the  actual  circumstances 
of  a  case,  much  more  easily   than  that  three  per. 
'sons — the   last  evidently  a   reluctant  witness- 
should,  without  any  grounds,  expose  themselves 
to  the  terrific  penalties  attaching   to  such  crimes, 
"  Nor  is  it  an  immateriaj  circumstance  that  the 
first  witness  was  produced  by  plaintiff,  which  ha 
would  scarcely  have  done  had   he  had  any  doubt 
of  the  integrity  of  the  transaction,  without  being 
CompariBon  of  first  assured  of  the  testimony  he   was  likely  ta 
Handwriting,  obtain. 

"  Finally  on  a  mere  cotuparison  of  the  Bigna* 

ture  to  the  Bond,  with  those  attached  not  only  to 

■    the  Power  .of  Attorney,  but  to  the  defendant's 

answer,— the  Court  would  entertain  little  doubt, 

if  any,  of  the  authenticity  of  the  former. 

"  The  decree  of  the  Court  below  is  t,herefor» 
reversed,  and  plaintiff's  entire  claim  adjudged  t9 
him."— No.  8,536,  D.  C.  Putlam,  (J;) 


[  179  ]  ^ 

617. — Lokoebadalliyenegey  v.  Castcriiaelalgey,  ^  ssion— 
"  The  plaintiff  in  this  case  claims  a  portion  of  preaumP'iooB 
the  planting  share  of  certain  gardens.  It  is  ad-  arising  ""m. 
uiitted  that  he  was  formerly  the  owner  of  a  por- 
tion of  the  ground  also ;  that  this  portion  waa 
sold  about  six  years  ago  under  a  writ  of  execu- 
tion, and  that  even  then  the  plantiff  claimed  and 
wished  to  have  his  portion  of  the  planting  share 
sold  (jlso,  but  that  it  was  disputed  The  infer- 
ence from  the  circumstance  of  the  ground  having 
been  separately  sold,  and  which  is  principally,  if 
not  solely,  relied  upon  by  the  defendant,  falls  to 
the  ground.  It  is  also  admitted  that  the  plaintifi 
though  deprived  of  his  ground-share  has  ever 
Bince  resided  in  these  gardens,  both  which  now 
form  one  ;  and  this  leads  to  the-  presumption, 
though  certainly  not  to  the  proof,  of  some  remain-  Proof  of  «n  l«- 
ing  interest  in  the  gardens.  But  he  further  proves  *^'*''*"  ■''*"  • 
by  several  witnesses  that  he  was  the  acknowledged 
planter  of  some  portion  of  these  gardens ;  one 
witness  gave  him  the  plants,  and  another  aided 
him  in  planting  ;  and  this,  for  a  transaction  of  30 
years'  standing,  is  quite  ^s  strong  proof  as  can  be 
expected.  And  he  also  proves  that  within  the 
last  3  and  3  years,  and  therefore  subsequently  to 
the  sale  of  his  ground-share,  he  has  shared  in  the 
produce  of  the  garden.  This  clearly  shews  some 
remaining  interest. 

"  What  then  is  that  interest  ?  He  claims  one- 
fourth  pf  the  planter's  share  of  the  second  planta- 
tion ;  and  this  is  precisely  the  amount  reserved, 
as  evidently  belonging  to  .another,  in  a  lease  of 
the  10th  January  1832  of  one-fourth  of  the  same 
garden,  made  by  the  mother-in-law  of  the  1st 
defendant,  and  to  which  not  only  is  the  1st  de- 
feudant  a  witness,  but  on  which,  as  appears  by 
the  endorsement,  he  personally  received  the  ar- 
rears. And  these  are  circumstances  of  which  the 
2nd  .defendant  (the  purchaser  of  plaintiffs  ground 
share,  and  previously  a  lessee,)  cannot  be  presum- 
ed to  have  been  ign6rant. 

"  The  pUintifif  is  therefore  quieted  in  the  pos- 
session of  the  one-fourth  of  the  planter's  share  of 
the  2nd  plantation."— No.  2,340,  D.  C  Caltura, 
(J.J 


1837 


[180] 


518. "Domingo  Fernando  v.   Petronella   Juitina 

Potenitz,  Administratrix  of  Alphonso. 
PU-tingshare  "  A  planting-agreetnent  was  entered  into  by 
^Comproinise  ([^^  plaintiff  and  others  with  the  defendant's  late 
-K*-s^to  the  jj^sband,  on  the  6tk  March  1830.  Its  provisions 
are  no  donbt  harsh,  and  were  it  now  a  question 
■whether  it  ahoiild  take  effect,  it  would  in  all  pro- 
bability be  very  considerably  modified  in  regard 
to  the  pennlty  and  forfeiture.-  A  suit  was  how- 
ever commenced  on  this  agreement  by  the  de- 
fendant's husband  against  the  present  plaintiff,  in 
the  year  1826  ;  which  suit  (No.  1,552,  Proy.  C. 
Cofom5o,)  was  finally  determined  by  compromise, 
on  the  22nd  October.  The  Record  of  that  day 
contains  the  following  entry  ;— "  The  defendant 
states  he  has  entered  into  the  agreement  to  pay 
to  the  plaintiff,  in  SO  days,  six  fannms  for  ev«ry 
tree  not  planted  according  to  his  agreement,  and 
resign  all  claims  on  the  trees  iilanted  by  him." 
And  judgment  was  entered  up  accordingly.  The 
original  agreement  bonnd  him  down  to  pay  Eds. 
2  forfeit  for  every  unplanted  tree  ;  so  that  three- 
fourths  of  the  forfeit  money  was  thus  remitted. 
The  defendant  in  that  case  has  however  continued 
to  occupy  the  ground;  and  has  occasionally  pluck- 
ed fruits  from  it ;  and  he  has  n»w  brought  the 
present  suit  again-st  the  former  plaintiff's  admin? 
istrator  to  recover  a  sum  of  £15.  as  the  value  of 
the  planter's  share  of  the  garden,  which  the  de- 
fendant is  allegied"  to  have  gold.  To  this  the 
defendant  j leaded  the  former  judgment.  And 
the  only  question  for  the  Court  is  in  what  capa- 
city has  lie  obcupied  the  property  since  that 
judgment  ? 

No  less 'than  seven  witnesses  swear  that  it  was 
Bs  renter  ;  ho  denies  that  it  was  by  virtue  of  the 
interest  he  had  expressly  forfeited  under  the 
compromise  in  the  former  case.  Under  these 
circumstances,  the  Court  can  have  no  hesitation 
which  to  believe,  especially  when  all  the  witnesses 
of  the  plaintiff,  except  the  Snd  and  3rd,  prove 
only  what  is  not  disputed,  viz  :  \k&\fheha*j)laid,- 
ed  J  whilst  both  the  2nd  and  3rd,  though  they 
say  that  lie  haiS  retained  his  planting-share  (in 
which  howerer  they  are  contradicted  by  the  6th, 


[  181  ]  1S87 

who  says  that  the  pkintiffa  share  has  not  been 
given  to  him  as  yet ;)  also  admit  that  ha  has  held 
as  renter  ;  which  shews  that,  to  the  full  knovvledga 
of  both,  he  did  stand  in  the  relation  of  a  tenant  to 
the  defendant. 

"  The  decree  i.s  therefore  reversed  in  favour  of 
the  defendant;  but,  in  consideration  of  the  extreme 
vigour  of  the  covenants  in  the  original  agreement, 
under  which  the  plaintiffhas  forfeited  his  planting- 
share,  without  costs. — No.  1,338,  D.  G.  Negomho, 
(J.)  ^^ 

h\9.—  Udagahapattoegey  v.  Kiidaliijenegey . 

"  From  the  depositions  of  the  1st  witness,  it  is  P-aintiffs mt»r- 
proved  bey'ond  question  that  the  plaintiffs  had  "''"  """^  "^'• 
jiotat  the  time  they  entered  this  wit,  nor  hnvci 
they  now,-  a  particle  of  interest  in  the  cause  ;  and 
they  are  made  parties  only  to  enable,  the  real 
party  (the  Ist  witness)  to  give  evidence  in  his 
own  favour, — a  proceeding  contrary  to  every 
principle,  and  which  if  countenanced,  musit 
lead  to  £>  total  perversion  of  justice.  Should  t lie 
1st  witness  enter  an  action,  then  will  be  the  time 
to  ascertain  who  is  .the  true  proprietor  of  the  pro- 
perty in  dispute  ;  but  it  is  certain  according  to 
.their  own  evidence,  the  plaintiffs  are  not.  They 
are  therefore  non-auited  with  costs."  — No.  3,212, 
Caltura,  (J.) 

July  20,  (J.) 
C20.—Ja  the  Estate  of  Sey«doe  Mira  Lehhe  Ma- 
hamadoe  Lehbe  Marcar. 
The  deceased  left  a  Will,  appointing  his  wife  Administration 
the  executrix  ;  but  the  grant  of  Probate  to   her  '°  Z'  '■'•«<l"o>^. 

.    '  ,.     ,  ,.  1,1  iviln  consent  of 

was  opposed    by  two  of  the  Creditors,    Messrs.  tho  Executor. 
Ackland  and  Boyd  and   Jlessrs.    Groves  &  Co. 
The  question  having  been   argued  in   appeal,, — 
the  following  order  was  ultimately  agreed  to  by 
the  pSrties: 

"  The.  parties  having  agreed  between  tlicm- 
selves  that  Edward  Barley  Esquire  sliopld  be 
appointed  administrator  with  the  V\'ill  annexed, 
it  is  ordered  that  the  said  Edward  Darleij  be 
appointed  administrator,  with  the  Will  annexed, 
but  without  seclir1t-y,in  Conformity  wih  'he  arrange- 


1887  [  182  ] 

ment  signed  by  the  respective  Proctors  of  the 
parties."— No.  16,792,  16,770,  D,  C.  Colombo, 
N.  ( J.) 

621  —-Warnecoelle  Aratchigey  and  another  v. 
Magenta  Perera  and  another. 

Banusof  Mar-       "  The  broad  general  principle  is,  that  a  publi. 

mge— opposi-  gj,tjon  of  Banns  can  only  be  opposed  on  grounds 
■which  would  render  the  marriage  unlawful.  And 
inconfirming  the  decree  dismissing  the  opposition, 
the  Supreme  Court  felt  inclined  to  lay  down  that 

Estate  of  pre-  Principle  simply   and  without  qualification.    It 
deceased  parent  appears,  however,  that  to   far  back  as  the  year 

l«ft  »uisettled.i780,  a  resolution  was  passed  by  the  Councils  of 
Ceylon,  by  .which  on  the  decease  of  a  Father  or 
Mother  leaving  children  under  age,  the  survivor 
is  not  allowed  to  re-naarry,  until  the  property  has 
been  inventorized  and  the  orphaji's  portion  secured 
to  them  ;  and  by  its  decree  of  the  1st  July  1835, 
(No.  1,502  D.  0.  (Mlura*),  this  Court  enforced 
this  regulation,  so  that  it  cannot  but  be  consider- 
ed law. 

But  being  an  exception  to  the  general  law,  it 
must  be  restricted  within  its  original  limits.  .  In 
the  case  No.  1,509,  the  child  was  a  minor  :  the 
resolution  has  reference  only  to  minor  children; 
and  to  the  cases  of  minor  children  only  can  it 
therefore  be  made  to  apply.  Here  the  parties 
opponent  are  neither  the  children  of  the  survivor, 
nor  is  either  of  them  stated  to  be  a  minor  :  they 
nre  the  mother  and  brothers  of  her.  first  husband; 
arid  as  the  right  of  opposition  belongs  but  to  the 
children  by  the  previous  marriage,  during  sneh 
children's  minority  only,  the  Court  on  the  doubU 
ground  of  non-aiSUation  and  want  of  minority, 
confirms  the  decree. — -No.  606,  D.  C.  Caltura  (J.) 

July  86,  (R.  J.) 
529. —  Warnecoellearacliigey  v.  Wcmiecotlh 
Aratchigey. 
^*d  DC  ^''       "  ^'  "PPS*'"*  '"  tl^is  case  by  some  of  the  depo- 
sitions, that  there  was  an  old  fence   in  the  garden 
in  dispute,  and  that  the  defendant  has  removed  it 

;  Se»  mU,  p.  6»,  by  m 


[     ISO     j 


isar. 


and  erecied  a  new  one,  whicl^  seems  fo  liavS  piven 

rise  to  tliis  suit.      Tha  fizo  nt'  live  gHrdeii  itself  is 

very  doubtful ;  so  that  it  is  in  faot  difficult  to  tell 

vliether  tlie   parties  lias'e  any  cause  of  dispute  at 

ail.  Trne,  much  of  the  evidence  is  hearsay ;  but  the- 

above  facts  seem   tolerably  well-established    by 

positive    testimony  ;  and  even   hearsay,   though 

utterly  inadmissible   as  to  matters  of  ])resent   or 

vtcent    occurrence,   is   admissible   and" often    the       A'.icleu't  Occur 

only  testimony  in  questions  of  ancient  occupancy,   I"!:'!^^', /'''.'^^'^"' 

descent,  or  .ancestry.     The    decree  of  the  Court 

below  (which  was  for  the  defendant)  is  therefore 

siit  aside,  and  the  case  remanded   for  a  survey  of 

the  land  in  dispute,  and  further  evidence  on  both 

sides. — No.  3,!-'JU  D.  C.  Euanicelle,  (J.)  ^ 


23. — MahaweUetenne  v.    WellegecJere  M.  Banda-. 
Darigamineiie  Basnai/ce    Killeme,  Interveuient. 

The.se  proceedings  are  intimately  blended  with     Be;  Ju.nmin— 
the  suit  No.    7,G01  hetsv&evi  Behlgamme  Lekam,  .'^.f^^fl^^^^. 
as    guardian  of  one  /^UJ!(;%  Jl/eni/i-a,  and  the  pre-    ties, 
sent  defendant ;   which  suit  was  determined   by  a      Aathovity  to 
decree  of  this  Court  of  the   4t;i   February   183.5.   *''  mu2'"' 
■  That  decree  is  of  course  final  and  irreversible,  ex- 
cept under  two    hypotheses:  1   of  Collusion  be- 
tween the  pirties  to  both  suits;  and  2,  if  the  In- 
fant was  not  duly  represented.  But  the  evidence  in 
this  case  tends  to  e.xcite  suspicion  ou  both  points. 
It  is  therefore,  necessary    that  they  be  fully  en- 
quired  into    in  presence    of  the  parties  to  either 
suit;  and  if  is   ordered  in  consequence,  that    the 
case  be  referred  back  to  the  D.  0.  for  the  follow- 
ing purposes  : 

1. — Tliiit  the  said  DeJiir/amme  Lekam,  guar- 
dian of  the  said  Punchy  Men icka,  and  tne  said 
Punchy  Menicka  herself,  be  called  to  inlerveno 
in  the  ju'esent  action, — the  D.  C,  iu  case  the  lat- 
ter should  be  still  a  minor,  appointing  some  com- 
petent person  to  as.-ist  her. 

2. — That  the  said  Dehigamme  Ltliam  be  called 
ujion  to  shew  by  whose  nomination  and  nnder 
what  authority  he  u;;dortook  to  net  as  guardian  ia 
the  preceding  suit  ;  ui:d  to^xpl-vin  if  he  is  r-'!)- 


i^  .   [184] 

ted  to  either  of  tlie  parties;  and  if  so,  in  what  de- 
gree  :  either  pnrty  beiDg  ai  liberty  to  offer  testi- 
mony an  these  points 

3. — For  further  evidence  in  support,  or  in  re- 
futafion.  of  the  collusion  on  the  occasion  of  the  suit 
No.  7,601.— No.  940,  D.  G.  liatna^oom,  (J.)  * 

524. — Toutiaint  \.  Ilerft. 
Postponement, 
Piainiifif     be^ng       "  It  appears  that  issue  being  joined  in  this  case, 
Sr^iTc  use'    ^^^®  Proctor  for  the  plaihtiff  appeared  on  the  day 
quen'ce    of  'p.  ■   of  trial,  and   stated   that  he   had   refrained  from 
fendant's      Biis-  summoning  witnesses  to  prove  his  bond,  owing 
rspresentatiou.     j^  ^  j^,^^^.  j^^  ^^^  received  from  defendant,  which 
he  prodtieed,  and  which  he  construed  into  a  pro- 
mise of  payment ;  on  which  his  ease    was   struck 
off  with  costs. 

"  Had  plaintiff  failed  to  appear  and  defendant 
b6en  ready  to  proceed,  the  Court  wottld  not  have 
done  otherwise  than  it  did,— the  24th  Eulo'  leav- 
ing no  alternative  ;  but  that  rule  does  not  apply 
to  this  case,  nor  is  there  any  that  does;  so  that 
the  Court  in  first  instance,  as  in  appeal,  is  un- 
fettered in  its  discretion.  And  it  appears  to  the 
Supreme  Coiirt  that  under  the  circunistanees,  the 
payment  of  the  costs  hitherto  incurred,  is  quite  a  ■ 
uufficient  muTct  for  the  plaintiffs  omission'  (an 
oniissiT:incaused  h\'  the  act  of  the  defendant)  with- 
out conspelliog  him  in  so  simple  a  case,  to  com- 
mence anew.  The  cnse  is  therefore  to  be  re- 
instated, and  the  parties  are  to  proceed  to  a  trial, 
but  without  any  reinibursenient  of  the  costs 
lutherto  ineurred,  which  it  seems  have  been  paid. 
The  costs  .of  this  appeal  are  to  -stand  over  and 
abide  the  definitive  issue." — No.  3,234,  D.  C, 
Jaffna,  (J.) 

Aanaden  change     52'5 — Waltoeijagwmegeij  v.  Kirvjallt-Badakelk, 

in     th"      course  •  i.-  i 

rf  a rivei-,  where-  "  It  appears  that  some  years  ago  a  river  which 
by  land  is  trans-  flowed  between  "the  lands  oF  the  plaintiff  and  the 
bank  to' the  op-  defendant,  suddenly  changed  its  course,  leaving 
posite,  does  not  jiart  of  the  ]>lai»tiff's  property,  to  the  extent  of 
alt.r  the  pro-  ^\^Qyyx  three  coruies,  on  the  defendant's  side.  The 
I'BJ'ty-  ^ . 

*  See  h'St-a,  Dee.  30, 1S37. 


[     185    ] 


iSS7 


ilefendarit  took  possession  of  this  share,  asswedn-  Qn?  aa  to  the 
niized  it,  and  appears  to  have  eontimied  to  eulti-  '"'S'^'f  "!  "   I""^' 

.      ■..  i_f      /.         1        ,  z!  ,     ,.    ty,  who  has    aes- 

vate  It  peaceably  lor  about  five  years  ;  scveFal  of  .wediimized  the 
the  plaintiff's  own  witfiesses  agreeing  that  it  never  land  of  another. 
was  asswediimized  before. 

"  The  piaHitiff  now  claims  the  field  back  ;  and 
he  is  entitled  «o  to  do.  A  sudden  and  percepti- 
ble change  in  tke  course  of  a  Eiver,  or  a  transfer 
of  a  large  portion  from  one  bank  to.  the  opposite, 
•does  not  alter  the  property,  though  a  gradual  and 
imperceptible  increment  belongs  to  tlie  owner  of 
the  land  thus  enlarged. 

"  So  far  therefore  the  Cctirt  wonld  feel  inclined 
to  confirin  the  decree  ;  but  the  defendant  has  as- 
Bwedumized  the  land  for  some  years  without  any 
interference  oa  the  part  of  the  plaintiff,  whose  con- 
tinued silence,  though  it  cannrit  be  construed  into 
an  abandonment,  cert'ainly  amounts  to  an  assept 
to  the  improvement.  V>'hat  then  are  the  terms 
on  which  land  belonging  to  one  person,-  but  which 
■  another  has  asswedumiied  without  any  precise 
stipulation  of  share,  isthenceforth  held?  On  one 
occasion  it  was  reported  to  this  Court  that  the  as- 
Bwednniizer  became  the  proprietor  of  one  half; 
As  however  Sciwer  is  silent  onthe  sabjeot,  and  the 
Court  is  not  aware  of  any  direct  enquiry  having 
been  instituted  under  its  authority,  for  the  purpose 
of  settling  this  very  materixil  point,  this  case  is  re- 
ferred back  for  evidence  on  both  sides,  as  to  the 
share,  if  any,  which  an  original  asswedumizer  by 
consent  of  the  proprietor,  but  without  any  distinct 
stipulation  of  shares,  is  by  custona  entitled  to,  in 
Saffragam,  in  the  land  so  asswedumized."  No.  ^ 
1383,  D.  C-.  Ratnapoora,  (J.)* 


256i — Mevinhegey  V.  Merinhegei/. 
The  Petition  of  Appeal  in  this  case  contained       A  Proctor  nop 

.       /.  n       .  ,  \^i        p     ^         tt    A      n        ^  bound  to  uphold 

the  following   entry  at  the  foot:—'  As  Proctor,   ^  ^^^^  which  ha 
and  one  of  the  ilrawers  of  papers  here,  I  am  com-   conceives   to  be 
pelled  to  sign  this    Petition  ;   but  am    of  opinion   groundless, 
that  the  Petitioner  has  no  cause  of  Appeal  what- 
ever." 

Held  per  Jeremib  J.  that  the  Proctor  was  in 

*  Vide  in/ra,  October  18,  1839. 


[    ISO     ] 

error.  A  Proctor  is  not  in  a  Civil'  suit  bound  ta 
uphold  officially  a  case  whieh  lie  conceives  per- 
fectly groBMclkss  or  iniquitous  ;  t-linugh  vvliore 
there  is  a  fair  and  reasonable  ground  of  defence, 
lie  is  at  fnll  liberty  to, act  in  a  cau<;e,  whatever  may 
he  his  private  opinii  lis  of  its.  merits.  But  he  should 
iirst  state  that  opinion  to  liis  client.  Ke  'm  n;it 
<-xpected  or  required  to  mention  it  elsewhere, 
^"o.   3319,  D,  C.  Cultura,  (J.) 


Q57.—KirioroomsMeera  Lehhe  and  another  v. 
Raggamana  Ahantado. 
A  wnraan,  under       Where  a  wife  under  coverture  hud  alone  pre - 
nor^peal.   "*"'  ««"^^'-l  ^  Petition   of  Appeal,   AeM  that  the  docn- 
raent  was  void  ;   and  the  decree   of  the  Court  be- 
low was  affirmed.     No.  1888,  D.  C.  Matelle,  (J.) 

August  2. 
258. — Uiai  V.  Peiera. 

■>  ]t>™"o'^'m  ^"^  Wlienevcr  on  the  day  of  trial  either  party  state* 
discretion  ofthe  grounds  for  not  immediately  proceeding,  which ap. 
Court       below,  pear  to  the   Court  reasonable    and  satisfactory,  it 

i°aTppear"''°"  ^^  "*  ''"'^  ^''^^''^X  ^°  o^^^^'  ■''  postponement  on  suck 
terms  with  regard  to  costs  and  other  incidental 
points  as  the  case  seems  to  re(juire  ;  nor  is  there 
anything  in  the  24th  KuJe  or  any  other  to  fetter 
the  Court's  proceedings  in  this  respect.  But  this 
exercise  of  its  discretion  is  liable,  as  on  other  oc- 
casions,  to  revision  and  oontroul-in  Appeal. 

^Absence  of  The  vmavoidable  absence  of  Counsel  or  Agent 
Counsel  orAgent,  ig  a  sufficient  reason  for  delavins:  a  hearing,  so 
may         ie        a    1  .i        n        ,  •        ,•,.-,     i      °,      .   .      ." 

ground  for  post-  •'°"o  ^^  t"e  Court  IS  satisfied,  that  the  juint  inter- 

ponement.  esta  of  the  parties  and  the  public   will  not  be  ma- 

terially prejudiced  by  its  so  doing. 

A  postponement  cannot  however  bo  insisted 
upon,  as  a  matter  of  right,  merely  on  this  ground. 

The  .decree  of  the  D.  C.  is  therefore  set  aside  ; 
—and  it  is  ordered  that  the  case  be  reinstated  on 
lilainliffs  discharging  all  the  coiits  of  the  dav  snd' 
ofthe   Appeal.     No.  13/363,  D.  C.  Colombo,  (J.> 


{,    187    1 


1S37 


verse. 


August  9.  (J,) 

259.  —  Garehingei/  v.  Garehingey. 

This  case   in.wliieli  the    right  to  certain  lauJs     A  party  claim; 

v.as  in  qnestion,  had  been  sent  back  on  a  pvevions  ™f     .'"H^      ^7 

occasion  for    further  evidence    on  the  ji.art  of  the   proved^  t^have 

defendant,   the    Supreme    Conrt    observina;    that  teen    orighally. 

"  ii  fell  on  the  defendant,  who  was  proved  to  have   f  ""^r^  "^""ff 
1  •    •      11      ,1  1  •  ,.    1      ,       ,  .  tor,    IS  bound  to 

been  originally  the  cnltivator  ot  the  land  in  qiies-   shew  when    his 

tion,  to  shew  when,  his  title  became  adverse  to  ^'''^  became  ad- 
the  plaintilif,  the  original  proprietors;  and  that 
lie  had  iiudistnrbedly  possessed  under  snch  ad- 
verse title  for  ten  years  fjom  the  plaintiff's  nia- 
fority."  The  case  having  come  a  second  time  in 
appeal,  the  Snpreirje  Court  pronounced  judg- 
ment as  follows :  — 

"  The  defendant  has  not  shewn  when  his  title 
became  adverse,  for  the  deed  is  not  better  proved 
than  it  was  before,  the  late  Modliar  who  made 
the  endorsement  having  .continued  in  office  until 
1829;  nor  has  he  called  a  single  additional  wit- 
ness to  possession  :  his  whole  case  therefore  rests 
on  testimony  already  pronounced  insufficient. 

"  On  the  other  hand  plaintiff  has  adduced  the 
additional  witnesses,  who  corroborate  the  pre- 
ceeding  witnesses'  evidence  in  his  favour,  and 
prove  not  only  plaintiff's  recent  possession,  but 
tha:  the  field  in  dispute  was  mortgaged  by  his 
mother  and  held  for  many  years  by  the  mort- 
gagees, (defendant  being  always  the  cultivator),, 
subsequently  to  the  date  of  the  Deed  of  Sale, 
Baid  to  have  been  passed  by  him,  then  a  minor, . 
and  his  Sister,  then  under  coverture,  in  1813  ; 
snd  all  the  witnesses  who  depose  to  this  fact  are 
the  nearest  neighbours,  to  whom  not  a  shadow  of 
suspicion  attaches  and  whose  testimony  agrees  on 
every  material  point. 

"  "The  Court  cannot  therefore  but  consider  this 
as  anothei"  attempt  on  the  part  of  a  mere  holder 
to  usurp  the  title  of  a  proprietor." 

The  decree  of  the  Court  below,  was  therefore 
reversed,  and  judgment  entered  for  the  plaintiff. 
No.  9,343,  D.  0.  Maturh  (J). 


1837 


[     188    1 


The  claim  of 
the  children  of 
a  predeceased 
.KX>ouse  on  the 
property  of  the 
K  u  r  V  i  V  0  r,  a- 
inount,  merely 
to  IT  mortgage, 
Ki'i"g  them  pri- 
oiity  in  respect 
of-  their  share 
over  subsequent 
creditors  or  pur- 
chasers. 


2G0. — Tumour,  'Attorney  of  MaJiheii's  v.  Rosalroe. 

The  judgment  of  the  S.npreine  Court  in  this 
case  fully  Bt't3  (lut  the  facts  : ' 

"  Jeronimvs  de  Eosairoe  of  Calpentyn  is  a  .pri- 
soner for  debt  at  Colombo,  under  various  wints  of 
execution;  and  the  children  of,  his  first  v\ife  claim 
a  large  portion  of  lUB  ostensible  estate.  His  af- 
fairs have  in  consequence  been  repeatedly  brought 
under  the  consideration  of  the  District  Courts,  uf 
Colombo,  North  awA  Fiulani. 

"  The  following  eases  are  now  immediately  or 
incidentally  before  this  Court,.  Futlam  1,923 
Colombo,  'North,  2,983,  5,316,  9,568,  9,93o[ 
13,227,  16,791  ;  and  these,  consbined,  bring  the 
whole  of  the  principal  parties,  together  with  the 
various  questions  now  pending  in  both  Districts 
before  the  Conrt.  The  parties  are  the  debtor, 
the  chief  creditors,  and  the  children,  as  heirs  of 
the  first  wife  ;  and  Vlie  questions  have  roference, 
1st  to  the  couiU\ct  of  the  debtor  as  it  affects  him- 
Belf,  2.ndly  to  the  litiuidation  of  his- estate; 

i'  On  the  first  point,  the  Distriet  Court  of  Co- 
lothbo.  North,  has  by.  its  decree  in  the  case  No. 
2,933,  dated  4lh  '  July  1837,  pronounced  him,  iu 
effect,  a  fraudulent  insolvent,  and  adjudged  feim 
to  suffer  twelve  month?  imprisonment  compntcd 
from  tlie  day  on  which  his  conduct  was  investi- 
gated. It  further  delares  him- not  entitled  to  tlio 
benefit  of  the  Legislative  Enactment  No.  6  of 
1835,  "  passed  for  the  relief  of  honest  Traders''^ 
and  it  has  come  to  this-' opinion  owing  to  his  hav-, 
.iug  mortgaged  to  others  '  property  which  he  all 
the  time  knew  belonged  to  the  estate  of  his  de- 
ceased w  ife  and  was  subject  in  preference:  to  his 
children's  claim.' 

"  That  the  District:  Conrt  has  formed  not  an 
incorrect  judgment  of  the  generally  reprehensi- 
ble conduct  of  this  debtor,  as  shewn  by  the 
papers  now  before  it,  this  Court  beliwcs.  But 
ill  matters  of  this  moment,  whilst  concurring 
in  a  great  degree  in  tiic  view  expressed  by  the 
Court  below,  the  Supreme  Court  feels  bound  to 
notice  one  or  two  specific  points  in  that  judgmeilt, 
in  which  the  language  appears-  to  admit  of  a 
mistakea  construction. 


[      189      ]  1S37 

"  The  Ordinance  No.  Gof  1835  applies  alike  to 
fill  cases  of  Bankruptcy  and  Insolvenc}',  whether 
the  Insolvent  be  in  or  out  of  Trade,  honest  or 
fraudulent ;  provided  he  has  not  laid  himself  open 
to  a  prosecution  for  some  specific  criniinal  offence. 
If  fraudulent;  it  punishes  under  the  39  Clause, 
and  thus  it  postpones,  hut  does  not  deprive  hiwi, 
of  his  discharge  ;  if  not,  it  gives  hini  prompter 
relief.  Again,  the  part  of  the  Ordinance  alluding 
to  Bankruptcy  relates  .principally  to  Traders,  the 
remainder  to  Insolvents  who  are  not  in  trade. 

"Nor  'does  any  part  of  the  jiroperty  hold  by 
Eosairoe  belong  to  the  estate  of  his  deceased 
■v\ife  '  The  whole" estate  is  as  conipletely  his,  in 
point  of  law,  as  if  he  had  never  married  ;-  the 
children's  claims  merely  amounting  to  a  mort- 
gage,— a  lien  by  operation  of  law,^ — viliich  gives 
them  priority  or  a.})reference  over  all  subsequent 
ereditops  or  purchasers  for  the  actual  vrJue  of  the 
mother's  share  of  the  community  at  the  day  of 
her  death.  But  the  children  are  entitled  to  no 
specific  share. of  the  pi operty  as  owners;  and  as 
these  1-ights  attach  to  them  by  laio  and  not  by 
contract,  the  opposing  creditors  are  presun)ed  to 
have  been  as  well  acquainted  with   them  as  the  • 

debtor  himself ;  for  that  he  had  married  a  first 
wife  who  had  left  issue,  was  too  notorious  a  fai;t 
for  a  subsequent  mortgageenot  tf)  haveascertained, 
if  he  had  used  ordinary  diligence. 

The  Supren)e  Court  draw  s  therefore  its  infer- 
ence as  to  the  misconduct  of  the  Insolvent  from 
the  immense  mass  of  needless  litigatiiai  before 
it, — which  is  a  'deliberate  squandering  of  the 
estate,— as  well  as  from  his  behaviotir  with  regard 
to  these  very  claims  of  his  children,  which  he 
was  strenuously-  contesting  in  one  Court  at  Putlam, 
whilst  he  acknowledged  them  in  another  at 
Colombo.  When  his  children  sued  him,  he  owed 
them  comparatively  a  trifle,  and  resisted  to  the. 
last  the  re^covery  of  this  trifle.  When  his  other 
.  creditors  sued  him,  he  brouLiht  forw  ard  the  same 
claims,  acknowledging  them  at  once,  to  neutralize 
their  proceeding, —  conduct  which  cannot  be  over- 
looked, though  it  does  not  amouutr  to  that  species 
of  premeditated  fraud  in  contracting  debts,  which 


]N37    ■  [       190       J 

the  opposing  creuitors  seem  to  have-couteiitplated. 

"  Pairing  to  the  question  ariging  fi'om  the  ,|iro. 
ceedings  held  for  tho  purpose  of  liquidating  tlie 
estate, — li  appears  that  the  sale  of  the  estate  on 
tlio  part  of  the  creditor  under  writs  of  Execution 
in  the  suit  Nop.  16791,  9503,  9930  and  13337, 
Colombo,  is  opposed'  by  the  chihlren  in  tile  suit. 
No.  IfJTSl,  Colombo  ;  and  the  eale  on  the  part  of 
the  children  is  opposed  b}'  the  Insolvent  in  suit- 
No.  1923  Putlarii,  whilst  .the  same  Insolvent  is 
elaiiniug  the  benefit  of  the  Ordinance  No.  6,  of 
1835,  at  Colombo  in  the  suit  aboveuientioned 
No.  2983. 

"  This  renders  it  at  once  nt'cessary  to  coreoli- 
date  the  whole-of  these  suits,  and  by  transfeiing 
them  to  one  Court  to  prevent  a  multiplicity  of 
actions  and  cross-decisions. 

"•(!onsidering  them  as  consolidated,  it  follosvs 
that,  the  Insolvent  having  filed  his  Petition  for 
relief,  he  is  bound  to  assign  his  whole  estate  under 
clauses  14  and  48  of  the  Ordinance,  or  the  District 
Court  will  do  it  .for  him  under  clause  48  ;  and 
this  does  away  with  all  possible  oppositioh  from 
him  :  and  he  is  from  that  moment  a  stranger  to 
the  proceedings,  and  no  application  from  him 
tending  to  stay  the  liquidation  can  be  entertained. 

"  With  regard  to  the  children's  objection  to  the 
sale,  the  explanation  already  given  to  the  nature 
of  their  claims,  determines  the  value  of  their  op- 
position. Their  mothers  estate  is  merely  a 
cre«litor  among  sroditors,  privileged  it  is  true- 
but  still  a  creditor.  Nor  indeed  is,  the  amount 
of  the  claim  yet  ascertained,  as 'it  must  be  in  pre- 
sence of  the  Assignee  of  their  father's  estate.  In 
the  mean  time  however  thfy  have  applied  for 
alimony,  in  the  case  No.  1923,  Piitlam  ;  and,  as 
the  Court  conceives,  on  vtry  sufficient  grounds. 

"The  various  questions  before  the  Court  having 
been  thus  discussed,  it  remains  for  it  to  pronounce 
its  decree,  in  conformity  with  the  opinion  it  has 
expressed. 

"  And  in  consequence, /tVsf,  it  is  considered 
and  adjudge  J,  as  regJirds  the  decree  of  the  Dis- 
trict Court  of  Coloniho,  Xurlh,  dftCcd  '4th  July 
1S37,    that    the    term    of   the    iiiipiisonmcr.t  lio 


[    191     ]  ^w 

iiiiligateil  to  twelve  uioiitbs  from  th-o  dn-te  of  the 
hisolveut's  filing  his  petition  for  relief,  under  the 
Onliuaiice  No.  0  of  1835, 

"  And,  secondly,  as  regards  the  liquidation  of 
the  Estate,  it  is  also  considered  and  adjudged, 

•'■  Ist.—That  the  s«ita  No.  2983,  9668,  9930,,       Order    for 
13927,  and   16791,  from  the  District  Court  of  J^ofu.u";^ 
Colombo,  Nmih,  and  the  suit  No.  1923  from  the    of       several 
Ifisti'ict   Court  of  Putlam,  (the   suit  No.  5316    suits. 
Colombo,  JVorth,  though  connected,  being  at  an  *  "■ 

end),  be  consolidated  and  combined  ;  and  that 
the  whole  of  these  -eases  be  referred  to  the  Dis- 
trict Court  of  Colombo,  North,  where  all  further 
proceeding  with  regard  to  the  liquidation  of  the 
estate  of  the  said  Jeronimus  de  Eosa^oe,  are 
to  be  held. 

"  2nd. — That  the  oppoM'tion  made  by  the 
Insolvent  to  the  sale  of  his  property,  real  or  .per- 
sonal, in  the  suit  No.  1923,  Putlam,  as  well  as 
the  opposition  made  by  the  children,  to  the  sale 
of  any  such  property  by  the  creditors,  in  the  suit 
No.  16791,  and  all  other  appositions  whatever, 
if  any,  on  the  part  of  the  said  Insolvent,  or 
children,  to  the  said  sale,  be  set  aside  ;  and  that 
the  said  District  Court  of  Colombo,  North,  pro- 
ceed, in  consequence,  to  the  liquidation  of  the 
whole  estate  of  the  said  Jeronimus  de  Rosayroe 
ill  manner  following  : — 

"  l^t. — That  it  call  on  the  prisoner,  in  terras 
of  the  48th  section  of  the  Ordinance  No.  6  of  1835, 
forthwith  to  assign  his  estate,  for  the  benefit  of 
his  creditors  ;  and  that  in  default  of  his  so  doing, 
the  Court  proceed  to  assign  it  for  him. 

"  2nd. — That  the  assignee  do  then  (subject  to 
the  orders  of  the  Court)  proceed  to  the  sale  of 
the  real  and  personal  property,  belonging  to  the 
estate,  at  such  times,  and  in  such  manner,  as  shall 
appear  to  him,  (or  to  the  Court),-  most  advan- 
tageous to  the  creditors ;  and  that  in  case  of 
difficulty  as  to  the  distribution  of  the  proceeds, 
the  value  be  laid  out  temporarily  in  securities, 
public  or  private,  approved  by  the  Court,,  or 
depoaitcd  in  case  of  opposition  by  the  creditors 
OT  children,  in  the  public  Treasury. 


IRS- 


[     192    ] 


The  ab- 
sence of  a 
party  is  not 
in  all  cases  a 
good  ground 
Jbr  postpone- 
laent. 


"  And  with  a  view  of  settling  the  amount  of 
the  children's  lien,  it  is  also  decreed  that  the 
Court  do  in  the  presence  of  the  assignee,  and  of 
any  of  the  creditors,  who  at  their  own  perssnal 
cost  may  see  fit  to  appear,  proceed  to  follow  np 
the  proceedings  in  the  suit  No.  1933,  Putlam,B.nd 
to  ascertain  the  clear  value  oi  the  said  Jeronimus 
de  Kosayroe's  first  wife's  interest,  in  the  coniniu- 
nity  existing  between  ler.and  her  hnshand  at 
the  period  of  her  decease. 

"  And  it  is  further  decreed  that  the  functions 
of  the  Official  Administrator  nominated  in  the 
said  suit.  No.  1993,  PtitlcCm,  do  cease  and  de- 
termine, the  said  administrator  heing  duly  al- 
lowed all  reasonable  costs  and  charges  for  the 
duties  he  has  performed  ;  and  also  that  aa 
alimony  of  three  pounds  per  mensem,  be  allowed 
to  the  children  of  the  first  wife,  payable  from 
monies  now  in  the  hands  of  the  commissioner^ 
administrator,  or  aesignee,  or  from  the  first 
monies  to  be  received  by  them  ;  the  said  allow- 
ance commencing  from  the  day  of  their  father's 
imprisonment  ;  and  that  sueh  alimony  continue 
to  be  paid  until  the  affairs  of  their  mother's 
estate  be  liquidated. 

"  Finally,  it  is  ordered  that  the  whole  of  these 
cases  be  remitted  to  the  District  Court  of  Colomr 
ho,  North,  and  that  a  copy  of  this  judgment,  be 
transmitted  by  the  Registrar  of  the  Supreme 
Court,  to  the  District  Court  of  Putlam."— No. 
2983,  D.  C,  Putlam,  (J.) 

Gintotte-parene-vidanegey  vs.  Don  Juan  and 
others._ 

"Although  a  D.  C.  is  always  at  liberty,  sub- 
ject to  controul  in.  Appeal,  to  grant  a  reasonable 
time  to  the  plaintiff  or  defendant,  for  the  purpose 
of  bringing  all  the  partiss  together,  (which  is 
generally  the  roost  convenient  course)  ;  yet  the 
circumstance  of  one  or  more  joint  defendants 
being  absent,  or  not  be  found,  by  no  means 
renders' continued  postponements  an  incumbent 
duty.  The  case  <;an  be  decided  between  parties 
■who   are  present,  leaving  it  to   the  plaintiff  to 


i;  193  ] 


163', 


follow  lip  Ilia  proceedings  l)y  default.,  against  the 
absentees,  and  tp  the  latter,  to  defend  themselves 
when  they  appear. 

"  It  appears  also  to  this  Court  that  these  pro- 
ceedings might  have  boon  much  simplified,  if 
instead  of  entering  a  fresh  aetion;  the  plaintiff 
had  adopted  the  practice  established  at  Colombo 
of  simply  moving  for  a  rule,  to  shew  cause  why 
the  former  judgment  should  not  be  revived,  and 
execution  issued  thereon."— No.  1814,  D.  C, 
Matura,  (J.) 


August  15,  {J.) 

Barton  vs.  EyMngert  and  others. 

In  this  case  the  plaintiff  having  on  the   7tli 
February  1837,  obtained  judgment  against  the 
1st  defendant  as  principal,  and  the  2nd  defen- 
dant as  his  Bursty,  issued  Writs  «rf  Execution 
against  them.     The  1st  defendant  veas  brought 
up  on  the  30th  May  and  comraitted  ;  but  oil  the 
19th   June'  following,   on   the   motion  of    the 
plaintiffs  Proctor,  he  was  discharged  ;  and  the 
writ  of  Execution  was  rerissued  against  the  2nd 
defendant.   On  the  2nd  defendant  being  brought 
up,  however,  he  objected  to  his  committal  on 
the  ground,  1st,  that  the  plaintiff  and  1st  defen- 
dant had  agreed,  and  sold  the  property  mort- 
gaged  to  the  plaintiff,  without  the  knowledge 
and  concurrence  of  the   9nd  defendant,  (such  a 
proceeding  necessarily   releasing  the    security, 
as  declared; by  the  Supreme  Court  in  No.  2004 
and  iecondly,  that  the  plaintiff  had  not  persevered 
in  such  peremtory   manner  against  the  principal 
debtor  as  would  probably  have  secured  payment; 


A  superan- 
nuated judg- 
ment may  l>e 
1  evived  on  •» 
Rule  Nisi. 


Soemen&jooltj  Teroonanse  vs.  D.   Juanis 
Jayaioichreme. 

"  A  final  decree  cannot  be  altered  ty  a  D.  C. 
But  Judgments  preparatory,  and  interlocutory, 
may  at  any  time,  previous  to  the  final  decree,  be 
altered,  amended,  or  cyen  retracted." — No.  803, 
D.  C,  Matura,  (J.) 


A.    D.  c. 

may  alter  its 
iaaterlocutory, 
orders,       but 
not    its   finals 
decrees. 


I.  A  Surety 
who,  after 
n  itioe,does 
not  object 
to  the  Salo 
of  the  mort- 

,  gage,  is  not 
thereby  dis- 
charged. 

2.  A  creditor 
bydischarg- 
ingtheprin-^ 
eipal  from 
gaol,  with- 
out the 
consent  of 
the  Surety, 
thereby  dis- 
charges tha 
surety. 


1S37 


[    194    1 


from  him  ;  inasmuch  as  though  arvestecl,  he  hai 
been  since  discharged  at  plaintiff's  application, 
without  the  knewledge  or  consent  of  the  surety. 

It  was  admitted  by  the  plaintiff's  Proctor  that 
the  mortgaged  property  had  been  sold,  and  the 
proceeds  applied  in  payment  of  the  defendant's 
debt ;  but  he  also  stated  that  he  liad  communi- 
cated to  the  2nd  defendant  the  intention  to  sell 
the  property  by  private  hale,  but  had  received 
BO  answer.  It  was  admitted  also  that  the  1st  de- 
fendant had  been  discharged  from  custody  .with- 
out consulting  the  Snd  defendant.  The  Court 
below  upheld  both  the  objections,  and  discharged 
the  2nd  defendant. 

On  appeal  the  Supreme  Court  pronounqed 
judgment  as  follows  : — 

"  The  notice  given  by  the  plaintiff  to  the  de- 
fendant of  the  arrangement  respecting  the  sale 
of  the  house,  to  which  notice  he  as  surety  made 
no  answer,  would,  if  proved,  be  sufficient  to  set 
aside  tho  fint  plea.  But  on  the  second,  the 
discharge  of  the  principal,  without  tho  consent 
of  the  surety,  amounts-  beyond  doubt  to  a  dis- 
charge of  the  surety."  No.  3,617,  D.  C.  Galle 
(J.) 


Every  Vil- 
Inse  is  en- 
titled to  have 
a  cart-road, 
on  indemni- 
fji-ng  the 
owner's  whose 
lands  a]'e 
tsken  for  that 
purpose. 


Security  in 
appeal  cannot 
he  accepted 
after  the  ap- 
pointed time, 
nnlesa  by 
consent. 


JFernando  v.  Ahamadoe  LeVbe. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  every  village  ia 
entitled  to  have  a  cart-road,  and  if  there  is  nrae 
to  apply  for  one  ;  but  then  they  must  do  so  in 
due  form,  and  will  be  expected  to  indemnify 
the  proprietors  of  the  land  adjacent.  The  road, 
will  also  be-  made  to  take  the  least  inconveni- 
ent line.    No.  2,823,  D.  C.  Caltwa,  (J.) 

September  1 5  (R.) 

Gooroenanselagey  v.  Liyeneaehigey. 

Whei;e  the  security  in  appeal  Had  been  offer-. 
ed  long  after  the  due  and  affixed  time,  Md  that 
it  could  not  be  accepted  unless  with  the  assent 
expressed  of  the  plaintiff.  No.  1,333,  D.  0. 
AmMangodde.  (R.) 


L    195     ] 


1837 


September  20,  (R.  St.) 
Blevin  V.  JonMaas. 

Tho  rule  of  Court,  in  furthcratice  of  tlio 
design  of  the  Charter,  permits  at  any  time 
during  the  proceedings,  of  an  oral  examination, 
at  the  discretion  of  the  District  Jndge;  of  the 
parties,  plaintiff  and  defendant,  litigant.  In  re- 
ference therefore  to  this  rule,  it  does  not  appear 
that  the  Proctor  of  a  party  can  equitably  claim 
an  exemption  beyond'  that  which  is  given  to  his 
client.  The  Court  will  itself  decide  on  the  rele- 
y£incy  of  tho  questions  put,  and  on  the  expedi- 
ency  of  the   answer.     No.  3,469,   D.  C.  Ruan- 

Ue,  (R.) 


The  T).  C. 
has  disevetion 
to  allow  the  ex- 
ammation  of  a 
Party  or  his 
Proctor  at  any 
stage  of  the 
case  provided 
the  qiieslions 
are  relcvaufc. 


October  18,  (R,.  J.) 
Had  Vmma  v.  Cuttt/  Nahooda. 

The  judgiaent  of  the  Supreme  Court  in  this 
case  fully  sets  out  the  facts  : — 

"  So  far  back  as  the  11th  May  1818,  the 
present  Eespondent  obtained  a  decree  against 
the  executor  of  her  late  husband  i/at/yie  Ismael 
Nacoodah's  estate,  for  four  boutiques  bequeath- 
ed to  the  said  husband,  and  subsequently  in 
January  1825  she  obtained  another  decree  for 
the  arrears  of  the  rent  of  this  property. 

"  On  proceeding  to  enforce  these  judgments, 
she  was  opposed  by  the  present  Appellant  Moo- 
lary  Mohidien  Cutty  Nacodah,  who  assumed  tho 
quality  of  agent  of  one  Coenjie  Pokey  Cavey, 
heir  to  ths  above  Hadjie  Ismael  Nacoodah. 

"  This  opposition  was  however,  set  aside 
with  costs  by  decree  No.  1,307. 

"  When  the  plaintiff  was  on  the  point  of  en- 
forcing this  last  decree,  Mr.  V.  W.  Vand-erstraat- 
en  as  official  Administrator  of  the  same  Coenjie 
Pdkey  Cavey ,  interposed,  he  having  under  a 
decree  of  the  then  Supreme  Court  seized  ^nd 
sequestered  the  estate  of  the  said  Coenjie  Pahey 
Cavey-. 

"Upon  this  another  action  was  commenced 
against  the  Administrator  in  July  1835,  ?ind  the 


On  a  judg- 
ment ohtain- 
ed  by  a  Lega- 
tee against  tlie 
Exscutor,  for 
the  rents  of 
the  .  proper- 
ty beqtieathed 
she  had  seized 
a  sum  of  mo- 
ney lying  in 
deposit  in 
the  Treasury. 
This  sum  had 
been  dTeposit- 
ed  by  the  Ad- 
ministrator of 
an  Heir  oftha 
Testator,  (in 
pursuant  of 
a  judgment 
against  him  at 
the  instance 
oftheLegatee) 
as  a  dividend 
allotted- to  the 
Legatee  on 
her  claim. 

Held,  that  a 
third'  party 
claiming  un- 
der such  heir 
had  no  reme- 
dy  as  against 


-1837  »         [      196      ] 

the  Legatee,  defendant  having  on  the  9th  November  dnter- 
venf  herdSw-  ed  a  distinct  admission  of  the  claim  "  as  per 
ingthe  money  judgment,"  but  objected  to  paying  the  costs  of 
from  theTrea-  g^jj.^  ^  decree  (the  fourth  in  the  cause)  was  passed 
^"''^'  on  the    11th,   recording   the    admission   of  tho 

debt,  but  adjudging  the  defendant  to  pay  costs, 
v/hich  last  clause  led  to  an  appeal  on  the  part  of 
the  defendant.  In  appeal  the  latter  put  in  a 
written  statement,  setting  forth,  first,  a  denial; 
that  the  present  appellant  Moolary  Mohidien 
Cutty  Nacodah,  the  opponent  iu  the  third  suit, 
ever  was  authorised  to  represent  Coenjie  Pakei/ 
Cavey  ; — and  secondly,  that  this  very  debt  which 
the  official  Administrator  had  himself  distinctly 
admitted  in  his  answer  of  9th  November  1835 
to  be  then  due,  had  on  the  contrary  long  sines 
been  paid  .  and  satisfied  by  the  deceased's  agent 
Mr.  Gibson.  On  these  grounds  the  case  was 
reopened  by  decree  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the 
18tii  January  1836,  and  referred  back  for  fur- 
ther  investigation  to  the  District  Court  of  Galk^ 
This  decree  is  as  follows  : — 

' ' '  The  proceedings  in  this  case  having  been  read, 
and  explained  by  the  Court  to  the  Assessors.lt  is 
considered  and  adjudged  that  the  decree  of  the 
District  Court  of  Galle,  in  this  matter,  be  set  aside : 
the  case  nevertheless  to  be  proceeded  in ;  the 
plaintiff  being  at  liberty  to  prnducei  such  further 
evidence,  if  any,  as  she  may  stand  possessed  of 
in  support  of  her  libel,  and  with,  full  2'>ower  to 
tlie  defendant^  to  make  his  defence  as  official  Ad- 
ministrator. The  costs  of  the  present  proceed- 
ings to  be  defrayed  by  the  plaintiff.' 

"  On  re-appearing  before  the  District  Court, 
the  official  Administrator  attempted  to  prove 
neither  of  the  allegations  contained  in  his  state- 
ment in  appeal,  but  reverted  exclusively,  as  ap- 
pears by  the  proceedings  dated  lltji  October 
and  23rd  December,  to  be  the  question  of  costs, 
— which  was  in  fact  the  only  point  reserved  by 
the  decree  of  November  1835,  passed  on  his  own 
admission.  The  District  Court  in  consequence,,-; 
on  the  said  day,  23rd  December  1836,  proce^dei '< 
to  pronounce  its  fifth  decree  in  favor  of  plaintiff 


[    19T    ] 

wliich  decree  was  nfRrmed  bv  tliis  court  on  the 
SSrd  February  1837. 

"  The  ■  Plaintiff  and  Respondent  Laving  on 
these  decrees  sued  out  a  writ  of  execution 
against  the  official  Administrator,  the  latter,  on 
the  28th  April,  announced  to  the  Fiscal  of  the 
Western  Province,  that  a  sum  of  £54.  1.  1,  was 
deposited  in  the  Treasury  allotted  to  Rasi 
TJmma's  claim  of  £97.  7.  6.  by  dividenij.  Bat 
when  the  latter  was  on  the  point  of  receiving 
this  sum,  Moolary  Mohidien  Cutty  Nacodah,  the 
author  of  the  opposition  to  the  two  judgments 
originally  obtained  against  the  executor  of 
Hadjie  Ismael  Nacodah,  the  same  person  who 
.  had  been  taxed  by  the  official  Administrator  . 
with  having  falsely  assumed  to  himself  the  qua- 
lity of  agent  of  Coenjie  PaJiei/  (Javey,  the  in- 
dividual, in  short,  "by  whose  instrumentality  the 
Eespoudent  has  been  hitherto  deprived  during 
twelve  years  at  least  if  not  during  the  whole 
nineteen,  of  the  benefit  of  five  distinct  decrees  of 
the  local  Court,  several  if  not  all  difinitively  con- 
firmed in  Appeal, — again  opposed  the  payment. 
This  opposition  was  notified  to  the  Fiscal  on  the 
16th  May  by  letter  from  the  Proctor  stating  that 
his  client  had  obtained  on  the  8th  January  1836 
a  judgment  against  the  official  Administrator  of 
Coenjie  Fakey  Cavey  for  £520,  and  he  therefore 
called  on  him  "  not  to  divest  himself  of  any  sum 
of  money  be  may  have  seized  or  be  about  to  seize 
by  virtue  of  the  writ  of  execution  No.  3,402 
from  the  District  Court  ot  Galle,  until  the  qnes- 
tion  of  preference  or  concurrence  was  decided." 
"The  value  of  a  judgment,  of  the  kind  alleged 
in  this  letter,  (supposing  it  in  existence,  and  it 
has  not  been  adduced,  though  that  there  is  such 
a  judgment  cannot  as  9.  matter  of  fact  be  doubt- 
ed,) considering,  firstly^  the  parties,  Moolary 
Mohidien  Cutty  Nacodah .  on  the  one  side, 
and  the  official  Administrator,  wine  following 
in  his  st«ps  had  thought  fit  to  raise  ground-  . 
less  plea  upon  .  groundless  plea  to  the  effect 
of  further  postponing  the  payment  of  this 
most  just  debt,  on  ihe  other  ;  secondly  its  date 


iR;i7 


]K)7  *^  [    198    ■] 

(in  January  1880,)  the  period  ulien  all  the 
pleas  tlins  vcxatiously  raised  and  abandoucd 
were  put  forth  ;  thirdly  its  evident  object,  to  ob- 
tain indirectly  what  had  in  vain,  time  after  time, 
been  sought  for  directly  for  nineteen  years,  viz : 
the  depriving  tliis  widow  of  her  legacy  ■;  and 
finally  considering  the  easy  manner  in  which,  so 
far  as  appears,  this  judgment  was  obtained,  a 
manner  strangely  contrasting  -as  it  does  ^^ith  the 
obstacles  thrown  in  th«  way  of  the  ltespond«nt, 
—can  scarce  be  doubtful. 

■'  Concert  between  two  parties,  for  the  purpose 
of  causing  an  injury  to  a  third,  seldom  if  ever  can 
be  proved  but  by  circumstantial  evidence;  there- 
fore it  is  a  vveli-establislied  legal  maxim  that 
where  evident  marks  of  such  concert  or  of  such 
a  design  appear,  the  proceeding,  whatever  form 
it  assumes,  judicial  or  otherwise,  shall  with  refer-- 
CTice  to  the  person  whose  interest  it  was  th«  pur- 
pose to  injure,  be  deemed  invalid.  On  these 
grounds  therefore,  if  on  these  only,  the  Court 
would  have  no  hesitation  as  to  th'e  decree  it  should 
pronounce.  But  if  defective  in  principle,  the  pre- 
sent proceeding  is  equally  faulty  in  form.  The 
sum  of  £64.  1.  1.  is  stated  by  the  Administra- 
tor to  have  been  assigned  to  defendant  "  as  a 
dividend,"  and  to  have  been  deposited  as  such  in 
the  Colonial  Treasury.    From  that  time  forward, 

'  it  can  only  be  considered  as  ha^ng  been  lield  by 
the  Treasurer,  as  by  any  privateAgentorBankor, 
for  account  of  the  party  for  whose  benefit  it  had 
been  paid.  This  has  been  met  in  argument  by 
the  assertion,  that  the  Administrator  had  received 
notice  of  the  present  claim  from  the  Appellant 
prior  to  his  divesting  himself  of  this  money. 
Should  such  be  the  case,  of  which  not  a  particle 
of  proof  is  tendered,  perhaps  a  remedy  might 
existagainst  theAdministrator, — it  certainly  does 

.not  againt  any  other  j)erson.  Then  though  the 
law  favours  generally,  as  far  as  possible,  an  eqital 
]iartition  of  assets  among  creditors,  y<jt,  before 
the  Appellant  could  under  any  circumstances  ho 
allowed  at  this  distant  period  to  share  in  a  divi- 
dend specially  allotted  to  another,  he  must  vsry 


[     199 


1  1837 


satisfactorily  account  for  liis  past  neglect,  and 
shew  that  be  had  hitherto  ohtainecl  nothing,  as  a 
(lividencl  on  his<c]aim-;  \vhich  he  has  not  done,  or 
attempted  to  do. 

"  The  Court  is  therefore  of  opinion  that,  view- 
ed in  every  light,  the  present  opposition-  to  an 
action  already  determined  by  judgment  in  1818, 
notwithstanding  which  the  law-suit  has  been  five 
times  re-opened,  and  made  to  last  upwards  of 
nineteen  years,  (being  double  the  duration  of  the 
isiege  of  U'roy,)  is  vexatioiis  and  groundless  ;  and 
it  would  ill  discharge  its  duty  were  it  not  to  add, 
that,  so  long  as  a  shadow  of  Justice  is  to  be  ob- 
tained in  Ceylon,  the  proceedings  on  which  it 
lias  been  its  principal  duty  to  observe,  neither 
can  nor  shall  be  repeated  with  impunity.  The 
decree  of  the  District  Court  is  therefore  affirmed 
with  costs,  among  v.]iich  costs  (to  be  paid  by 
tlie  Appellant)  is  to  be  included  interest  at  the 
current  rate  of  9  per  cent,  on  the  sum  detained 
at  the  Treasury,  viz  :  £o4.  Is.  Id.,  from  the  date 
•of  the  opposition  to  the  payment  thereof, — 16th 
May  last  to  the  day  of  its  actual  payment  into 
the"  hands  of  Kespoi.Jents.''— No.  4,353,  D.  C. 
GaUe,{.].) 


538.    Wattoet/agamegei/  v,  Kirigelle-hadaheUe. 

This  case  had  been  referred  back  on  the  26Lh       Eight  of  a 
July  IboT,  for  evidence  as  to  the  share,  if  any,     swedumize- 
which  an  original  asawedumizer  by  consent  of  the    anothei'slaud, 
proprietor,  but  without  any  distinct  stipulation  of   ^^^^    ''"*   **" 
share,  is  by  custom  entitled  to  in  Saffragam,  in 
the  land' so  asswedumized. 

It  now  ajjpeared  that  the  Plaintiff,  (the  pro- 
prietor) had  remonstrated  when  the  Defendant 
(the  assvicdumizer)  first  attempted  to  assume 
.  possession,  viz  :  above  five  years  before  the  com- 
moneemeut  of  the  action.  The  Supreme  Court 
■jironounced  judgment  as  follows  :  — 

"  The  question  as  to  Plaintiff's  consent  was  de- 
termined by  the  last  decree  of  thi.s  Court,  and 
though  both  jiarties  now  admit  that  the  Plaintiff  • 


1SS7 


[     200     ] 


remonstrated  when  the  Defendant  first  attempt- 
ed  to  assume  ijossession,  still  was  the  present  ac- 
tion only  entered  in- 1836. 

"  The  Court  cannot  but  coneider  the  tardiness 
in  commencing  the  proceeding,  as  tantamount  to 
iin  acquiescence  in  the  improvements  then  going 
on  ,'  so  that  the  land  having  been  asswedumized 
by  the  implied  consent  of  the  owjier,  though  with- 
out any  express  stipiilation  of  terms,  the  decree 
of  the  Court  below  (wHoh  is  in  favour  of  the  De- 
fendant) must  be  set  aside,  and  in  lieu  thereof,  it 
is  decreed,  in  conformity  with  the  custom  as 
proved,  that  the  piece  of  land  in  dispute  be  held 
in.  ande  between  Plaintiff  and  Defendant .;  each 
party  paying  his  own  costs. 

"  It  is  perfectly  clear  that  whore  there  is  no 
consent,  express  or  implied,  l,and  asswedumized 
by  a  stranger,  continues  to  belong  exclnsively 
to  the  original  owner.  On  this  point  the  testi- 
mony is  unanimous,  and  conformable  to  sound 
principles ;  but  here,  the  Court,  as  stated,  can- 
not but  imply  a  consent  from  the  conduct  of  the 
Plaintiff  himself."— No,  1,383,  D.  U.  Ratiia- 
poora,  (J  ) 


539.- 


Octpber  25,  (R.  St.) 
-Ramal  Ettena  v.  Neket  Ealle. 


The  S.  Court 
■will  decide  ou 
nil    interlocu- 

tol'y  orders, 
v.'ithout  the  as- 
Bent  ofparties, 

and  also  iu 
oriininal      ap- 
peals. 


InjilDction 
issued  by  the 
8u]trcme  C.  to 
prevent  waile. 


The  Supreme  Court  will  decide  upon  all  inter- 
locutory orders   of  District  Courts,  without  re- 
ference to  the  assent  of  parties  ;  Groenew  egen  de 
Leg.  Ahrog. — Dig.  xlii.  i.  14. ;  and  also  in  crimi- 
nal cases  of  appeal.  No.  8,644,  D.  C.  Kaudy  (E.) 
October  28.  (R.) 
At   Chim^bers. 
540. — In  re  William  Fernando. 

Upon  certain  Affidavits  sworn'by  six  persens, 
j\Ir:  Henry  StapUi,  I'ro'Ctor,  appeared  on  their 
behalf,  and  moved  for  a  wTit  of  Injunction,  ac- 
companied by  an  order  directed  to  the  Agent  of 
Government  of  the  Western  Province,  his  As- 
sistant or  Assistants,  and  to- all  persons  conceru- 
ed  ;    directing  him,  and  each  of  them,  to  vefrab 


•    r  201  ] 

from  committing  fnrilier  wrong  to  the  property 
referred  to  in  the  Raid  Aflfidftvits  ;  and  to  replace 
the  fences  where  they  stood. 

And  it  was  ordered  accordingly.  In  re  Wil- 
limn  Fernando  and  others.    (R.) 

December  4.    (R.). 

At  Chambers. 

541. — ^In  re  W.'Don.  Jeronis. 

Upon  an  Affidavit  sworn  to  by  IF.  Bon  Je- 
ronit  Appoo,  Mr.  Henry-  Staples  appeared  on 
his  behalf,  and  moved  for  a  Writ  of  Injunction 
directed  to  the  Fiscal  of  the  AVcBtern  Province, 
ifcc,  directing  him  to  refrain  from  delivering  any 
transfer,  or  giving  possession  of  a  certain  house 
and  garden  belonging  to  the  Deponent,  and  sold 
by  the  said  Fiscal  by  virtue  of  a  certain  Writ  ot 
Execution  against  him  and  his  mother  Jantriijey 
Dona  Amuu  Maria. 

And  it  was  ■  ordered  accordingly.  In  re  W. 
Don  Jeronis.    (E.) 

December  20.   (J. -St.) 
542. — Mdhawelletsnne  v.  W..Meduma  Banda. 

This  case  had  been  referred  back  to  the  Oourt 
below  for  the  pin-poses,  mentioned  in  the  decree 
of  the  26th  July  1837.  (See  ante  p  !83.)  Nothing 
new,  howei?ei',  having  been  elicited  by  the  further 
proceedings,  the  Supreme  Court  proceeded  to  a 
decision  between  the  original  parties  to  the  suit. 

Jerbmie,  J. — The  question  raised  is  purely 
one  o'f  law.  What  interest  does  a  Grandaiother, 
when  called  to  the  inheritance,  take  in  the  estate 
of  her  Grandson,  by  established  custom  in  Saf- 
/ragam, — a  permanent,  or  a  life-interest  ?  It 
has  been  matter  of  coiUroversy,  since  the  acquisi- 
tion of  theKandian  territory,  whether  thamother 
took  a  life  or-  permanent  interest.  Throughout 
the  other  provinces  of  that  kingdom,  there  is  no 
doubt  that  she  only  takes  a  life-interest  ;  but  in 
Saffragam,  the  preponderance  oi  authority  and 
precedent,  is  clearly  in  favour  of  an  exception  ; 
aud  the  right  of  the  mother  to  a  permanent  es- 


1SS7 


Injanction 
issued  hj  the 
Supreme  C.  to 
prevent  the  de- 
livery uf  a  cop- 
veyancQ  by  tlju 
Fiscal. 


Kandian  law 
— A   Cr  r  a  II  d- 

mjther's  in- 
terest   in   the 
Estatfe  ot  tlie- 

(jrandson. 


th37 


E     202    J 


tate,  seems  now  too  well-establislied  to  be  disptit- 
ed  :  iadeed,  on  this  point,  the  District  Judge  con- 
curs with  the  Supreme  Court. 

A  distinction  has,  however,  been  drawn  in  the' 
decree  appealed  from,  between  the  interest  wliicli 
the  mother  would  avowdly  have  possessed,  and 
and  that  which,  belongs  under  similar  circiini: 
stance  to  the  Grandmother.  This,  however, 
appears  to  the  Supreme  Court  on  the  fullest  in- 
quiry and  investigation,  to  be  untenable.  Even, 
that  portion  of  the  testimony  in  this  cause  which 
affirms  the  mother's  right  to  a  life-interest  only, 
makes  no  kind  of  difference  between  mother  ami 
grandmother,  when  the  inheritance  devolves  on 
the  latter. 

And  this  seems  the  riile  throughout  the  Kan- 
dian  Provinces,  where,  when  the  mother  has  a  Hfe- 
interest,  so  has  the  Grandmother,  when^she  alone 
survives  ;  and  when  the  one  takes  a  permanent 
interest,  so  doe.s  the  other  :  nor  does  there  seem 
bufficient  authority  for  disturbing  this  welUesta- 
blished  analogy.  The  decree  of  the  Cpmt 
below  is  therefore  reversed,  and  the  lands  claim- 
ed by  the  plaintiff  adjudged  to  him.  No  940, 
D.  C.  Ratnapoara.     (.J.). 


.  The  S.  C. 
•will  not  alter 
a  judgment, 
where  the  par- 
ty aggi-ievecl 
thereby  has 
3iot  ttjipealed. 


543. — Edire  Appowa   v.   Gahriel  Perera. 

The  Supreme  Court  had  bya  previous  decres 
of  the  10th  March  1837-,  required  the  defendant 
to  account  for  seven  leaguers  of  arrack,  consider- 
ing it  already  proved  by  the  defendant's  admis- 
sion to  the  witnesses,  that  that  quantity  had  been 
distilled.  On  the  subsequent  hearing,  however, 
the  defendant  failed  to  account  for  them  ;  ami 
the  Comt  below  gave  judgment  for  the  Plaintiff, 
but  only  for  -his  share  of  five  leaguers.  Against 
this  judgment  the  defendant  appealed. 

Held  by  the  Supreme  Court  that  the  defen- 
dants ought  to  have  been  adjudged  to  pay  th«' 
plaintiffs  share  of  the  whole  seven  leaguers,  aiid 
not  of  Jive  only,  as  now  adjudged,  'rhe  plaintiff, 
however,  not  having  appealed  against  that  judg- 
ment, the  Supreme  Court  refused  to   award  ib 


[     203     ] 


18!)T 


his  favour  his  share  of  the  value  of  the  two  ro- 
maihing  leagures.  But  the  defendants  appeal 
was  dismissed,  of  course,  and  the  judgment  of  the 
eonrfbelow  affirmed.  No.  1,083.  D.  C.  Am- 
hlangodde.     (.].) 

December  91.  (R.) 

At    Chamheri. 

544.— In  re  H,  C.  Bird. 

On  reading  a  letter  of  the  District  Judge  of 
Kandy,  and  an  Affidavit  sworn  to  by  Lieutenant 
Henri/  Cliarles  Bird,  the  Supremis  Court  granted 
an  Injunction  against  certain  parties  named  in 
the  Affidavit,  to  desist  from  removing  the  crop 
of  paddy  from  the  Estate  of  the  said  Henri/  Char- 
les Bird,  situated  at  Gampula.  In  re  H.  G. 
Bird.     (R.) 

December  28.  (J.St.) 
545.— TF.  Seddo  v.  L.  Sitta. 
It  is  the  established  practice  in  this  Island  to 
consider  costs  as  a  joint  and  several  debt,  which 
may  be  levied  from  either  of  the  parties  at  the 
creditor's  option  ;  the  debtors  being  left  to  their 
remedy  against  each  other  for  reimbursement  of 
tlie  shares  overpaid.  No.  1,076,  D.  0.  Amblan- 
yodde,  (J.) 


TriJTrnction 
issued    by   the 
Supreme  C.   to 
restrain  the  re- 
moval.of  crops. 


Costs  decveeil 
against  tfeverul 
defendants  ye 
a   joint    and 
several  debt. 


•  December  30,    (J.) 

546. — The  Kiiicj  v.  Asselegey  Dovjey. 

The  question  in  this  case  is  whether  the  same 
person,  being  both  District  Jnidge  and  Custom- 
Master,  can  prosecute  a  suit  in  his  latter  capa- 
city before  himself  in  the  former  ?  Or,  is  this  not 
an  infringraentof  the  24th  Clause  of  the  Charter '? 

"  The  Court  is  of  opinion  that  the  Charter  has 
been  infringed.  The  decree  of  the  Court  below 
is  therefore  reversed,  t-ogether  with  the  proceed- 
ings dating  from  the  first  summons  ;  and  the 
prosecnion  is  to,  be  entered  before  the  D.  C- of 
Caltura." — No.  1.,  D.  C.    Anihhoiyodde.    (J) 


A  person  who 
is  bothCustoia 

Master  and 
District  Judge, 
cannot  piose- 
cute  a  suit  iti 
llie  f  irnier  ea- 
pacity  hefore 
hirnscU'in  the 
latter. 


IPW 


[     204     ] 


1.  A  mortgflge 
gvanlwl  ill  ]  82'^ 
liefore  a  school- 
master and  wit- 
nesses is  valid. 

2,  A.  mortgage, 
accompanied 

^vithllossession 
of    tlie   title 
deeds,  is  enti- 
tled to  prefer- 
ence   over      a 

subsequent 
mortgage    by 
more  contract. ' 


3,  A  party 
who.  under 
pijjceediugs  of 
t.^ourt,  but 
without  notice 
to  a  claiment, 
sells  an  Es- 
tate, after 
having  oppos- 
ed a  previous 
sale-  by  the 
claimant     un- 


Janunry  3,  1838.  (E.  J.  St.) 
547. — Tantrigey  v.  GanJiewayey. 

In    this   case.^jEREMiE    J.   delivered    the 
judgment  of  the  Court,  as  follows  : 

"  This  is  a  question  of  concurrence.  The 
same  estate  is  mortgaged  to  two  persons.  The 
date  of  the  plaintiff's  deed  is  the  S3rd  August, 
1822 ;  that  of  the  defendant's  is  the  27lh 
January,  1893.  The  question  is,  which  has 
the  preference  ?  If  both  deeds  were  of  pre- 
cisely the  same  nature,  there  could  be  no  doubt 
upon  the  subject.  But  the  defendant  submits 
that  h4s  mortgage  is  special,  the  plaintiff's  gene- 
ral. This  is  tin  error  of  fact :  they  are  boUi 
special.  He  adds  also  that  his  deed  is  drawn  by 
a  Notary  ;  the  plaintiff's  by  a  schoolmaster  and 
witnesses ;  and  that  bis  mortgage  is  accom- 
panied by  the  transfer  of  possessioia  of  the  title- 
deeds,  which  the  plaintiff's  is  not.  On  these 
two  points  the  judge  on  circuit  required  the 
collective- judgment  of  the  Supreme  Court. 

"  And  that  Court  is  unanimously  of  opinion, 
that,  at  the  time  both  deeds  were  passed,  they 
\Ycre,  and  therefore  they  are, -still  equally  au- 
thentic in  point  of  form..  But  that  by  the 
universal  and  long-established  practice  of  this 
Island,  a  ra.cirtgage  with  transfer  of  possession 
of  the  title  deeds  of  the  land  mortgaged;  is,' 
though  more  recent  in  date,  to  be  preferred  to 
a  mortgage  by  mere  contract.  On  this  ground' 
therefore  the  decree  of  the  Court  below  is 
reversed,  and  the  plaintiff's  action  dismissed,, 
but  without  costs. 

"  The  District  Court-has  noticed  in  terms  of 
proper  reprehension' the  circumstance  of  the 
defendant  having,  without  notice  to  the  plain- 
tiff, sold  the  estate  under  proceedings  at  Ma- 
tura,  though  he  had  himself  previously  opposed 
the  sale  by  the  plaintiff  under  proceedings 
at  Galle.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  this  was 
a  contempt  of  the  authority  of  the  latter  Cour.t, 
for  which  he  might   have  been  attached   by 


I    205     ] 


18S8 


der  proceed- 
ings of another 
Court,  iH  guil- 
ty ot'cou-enixit 
of  tlie  latter 
Court. 

AGovt.Een- 
ter,  who  hii,  I 
by  the  conili- 
tions  deprived 
himself  of  all 
right  to  remis- 
sion of  rent, 
except  for  l<ite- 
ses    from  un- 


m  1 1 1  e  s, 
not  entitled  to 
ji-reniiHsion  on 
account  of  )os- 
ses  arisiu;^ 
ft-oru  (heG"Vt. 
having  esta- 
blished a  Small 
Pox  quarantine 
during    a  por- 


term. 


it,  nnd  punisliedby  fine  or  impiisonment.  The 
present  proceedings  are,  however,  purely  of  a 
Civil  nature.— No.  3,435,  D.  C.  Galle,  (Coll.)  - 

548. — The  King  v.  Bodiahadoegey. 

This   >vas  -an   action   on   the   part   of  Go- 
vernment against  the  purchasers  of  the  Fish- 
rent  at  Colombo,  for  the  period  from  1st  April 
to  31st  December  1833.    The  defendant  claim- 
ed a   deduction  from  the  rent,  "  owing  to  the 
Government  having  established  a  quarantine 
on  account  of  the  prevalencejjf  the  Smallpox," 
which  had  caused  an  interruption  of  theFishery.    foreseen  cala- 
To  this  it  was  objected  that  the  defendants  had, 
by  an  article  in  the  conditions  of  sale,  deprived 
themselves  of  all  right  to  the  remission  claimed 
by    them.      The   article    in    question    was   as 
follows  :    "  The  renter   shall  have  no    claim    to 
a  remission  of  his  rent  upon  the  plea  of  losses  and 
deficiencies,   except   in   cases    of  unforeseen   and 
■unavoidable  ecdamilies,  of  ii'hich  Government  alone    tion     of-  the 
will  he  the  sole  judge.    And  no  claim  for  remission, 
which  is  not  preferred  to  the  collector,  -immediateli/ 
on   the  occurrence   of  the  event  lohich  gives  rise 
to  the  claim,  shall  be  deemed  admissible,  nor  be  en- 
titled to  the  subsequent  consideration  of  Govenimcut 
with  that  view,  unless  preferred  within  throe  months 
after  the  expiration  of  the  rent." 

'J'he  Court  below  having  given  judgment  for 
the  defendant,  the  case  came  in  appeal  before 
lhe  Chief  Justice  on  Circuit,  imd  it  was  reserved 
for  the  opinion  of  the  Collective  Couit,  and  the 
judgment  of  the  Court  was  this  day  delivered 
as  follows : 

"  The  defendant  argues,  that  quarantine  being 
an  act  of  the  Government,  the  latter  ig  responsi- 
ble for  his  own  acts,  notwithstanding  the  above 
condition,  which  merely  applies  to  losses  caused 
directly  and  immediately  by  an  unforseen  cala- 
mity, or  by  an  event  perfecily  independent  of 
•the  consent  of  the  particp.  There  can  bo  no 
doubt  thai  covenants  of  this  kind  which  place 
one  contracting  party  entirely  at  the  discretion 
of  the  other,  are  at  all  times  to  be  viewed  with 


jValonay  l.y"  Courts  of  Justice.  Had  tlierefufe 
'  tlie  Act  of  GoveniineiH  in  the  [.resent  case,  been 
iimvarranted  by  tlie  emergency,  or  higlily  un- 
reasonable, or  such  as  could  not  have  been  fairly 
anticipated  under  the  circumstances,  flie  Seidur 
-Puisne  Justice  \i  of  opinion  that  .the  defendant's 
claim  should  have  gone  to  proof.  But  it  is  ad- 
initted  not  to  have  been  so.  It  is  true  the  in- 
terruption arose  directly  from  the  qnarantine  ; 
l)ut  this  quarantine  wns  a  measure  expressly. 
)iroviiled  by  Law  to  stop  the  jrrogress  of  a  cala- 
mity which  had  already  occurred.  The  calamity 
is  therefore  the  sole  original  cause  of  the  inter- 
I'uption  ;  for,  hiid  there  been  no  calamity,  there 
liad  been  no  interruption  ;  nor  can  it  have  been 
in  the  contemplation  of  either  party  on  entering 
into  the  original  engagement,  that  the  Govern- 
Tuent  should  be  fetteied  in  the  fair  exercise  of 
its  discretion,  with  regard  to  the  measures 
it  might  feel  it  its  duty  to  ado^rt,  in  warding  off 
a  puljjic  calamity  of  this  uatuie. 

"It  is  therefore  now  decreed  that  the  said 
order  be  set  aside,  and  as  this  w, is  the  only  ques- 
tion ill  the  case,  it  is  further  decreed  that  defen- 
dant do  pay  the  plaintiff  the  sntn  of  £702  19s. 
ild.,  with  interest  at  the  rate  of  9  per  cent,  per 
annum  from  the  2'2nd  day  of  February  l8o7, 
l)eiag  the  sum  claimed  in  plaintiff's  rejtjication, 
bearing  date  the  15th  April  1837,  without 
costs."— No.  101,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (J".)* 

January  6.     (R.  J.  St.) 

foftegodegainef/ei/  v.  Bohigamegei/. 

5J.'J. — ^Jenickoegey  v.  GouapinowalatciHtrirjei/. 

The-  judgment   of  the   Court    was  delivered 

by  Jeremle  (J.) 

3.    Tlic  il.^-        '•  'J'liese  two  cases  bearing  directly  upon  the 

i™Ui"ation"''t    ^""'f'    subject,    tlie    Native    Marriage    Law,   are 

ii»iiii>  niilj  ihc    tiik^'ii  and  determined  together,  thougii  not  otlier- 

rUiiitiii;    had    ivijie  connected. 

•    All   mj'tul  WHS  talirll   ag;UI|s|     |hi^  ..Uijlsi,  ,i|,  lO    tilt  QllL'«l 

iul'iiw  loiiiu'il.     (Str    unler  uf  ilii;    llih  Jauuan.  1S3S, 
(_iv.  Mm.  oj);  but  s  ,libuilUL'Hi!y  u!ja  .duiitd    (I  but.  ]i.  ii)U.) 


■[    207    ] 


1838 


"In  one  of  them,  No.  2,8o'S,  the  banns  of 
marriage  betvyeen  the  2nd  plaintifFanJ  the  1st 
defendant  having  been  duly  published  at  her 
residence,  the  1st  defendant  conducted  her  to  his 
village,  tut  refrained  from  announcing  the 
banns  there ;  and  several  months  after,  he 
i:«turned  her  to  her  parents,  having,  as  the  li- 
bel alleges,  treated  her  with  great  cruelty.  This 
latter  fact  he  denies,  admitting  however  that 
he  had  inflicted  some  trifling  corrections  to 
amend  her  conduct."  The  action  now  enter- 
ed is  to  get  the  banns  which  had  taken  place 
•cancelled,  and  to  recover  £9  17s.  9d.,  with  costs, 
for  advances  made  by  the  1st  plaintiff,  the  father 
of  the  2nd.  iJefendant,  whilst  he  admits  that 
he  obtained  some  property  from  1st  plaintiff, 
avers  that  the  suit  is  not  maintainaWe,  as  he  is 
willing  to  ''complete  the  marriage  ceremony," 
and  as  the  parties  "  have  lived  as  man  and 
wife  for  more  than  one  year."  The  D.  C.  ha- 
ving heard  sonre  of  the  plaintiff's  witnesses, 
and  pronounced  it  needless  to  hear  testimony 
as  to  the  ill-treatment,  has  dismissed  the  claim; 
on  the  ground  that  the  plaintiffs  "have  failed 
to  support  it.'-'  This,  on  a  question  partly  of 
LiQW,  and  partly  of  fact,  especially  when  tho 
facts  are  already  tolerably  established  by  defen- 
dant's admission,  is  conclusive.  That  the  mar- 
riage is  incomplete  and  consequently  void,  is 
admitted  by  ^11  parties,  though  the  marriage 
would  have  been  complete  according  toaucient 
■custom,  by  the  "  conducting"  alone,  and  that 
the  inconv-enience  now  felt  arises  from  the 
adoption  of  forms  equally  complicated  and  for- 
eign to  the  habits  ol  native  inhabitants,  is  also 
beyond  question. 

The  Court  has  therefore  to  inquire  as 
follows  :  In  point  of  Law,  is'  the  defendant's 
reply,  that  he  is  willing  to  complete  the  cere- 
mony, or  that  the  parties  have  lived  as  man 
and  \Tife  for  a  year,  a  sufficient  bar  to  the  ac- 
tion. Tho  pi'oposal  to  publish  the  remaining 
banns,  and  thus  complete  the  marriage,  if  made 


coBduotcd  her' 
to  his  village, 
but  subse- 
quently after  . 
treating  her 
^Tilh  cruelty, 
retained  her 
to  her  parents. 
In  an  action 
by  the  plain- 
liff  ■  and  her 
father,  to  get 
the  banns  can- 
celled, and  to 
recover  certain 
advances,  helJ, 
that  the  deft's.- 
plea,  that  "  he 
was  willing  to 
complete  the 
Tn.'u.riage,"and 
that  "  they 
ha  I  lived  as 
manandwife," 
was  not  an  an-, 
swer  to  the  ac- 
tion.' 


within  a  reasonaWa  tinic,  and  before  he  IiaJ 
liimself  broken  off  the  engagement,  by  deliver- 
ing her  back  to  her- parents,  would  do  doubt 
be  sufficient.  But  under  the  present  cireum- 
stances,  it  is  thecoliective  opinion  of  tlie  Su- 
preme Coiu't  that  it  i'S  n.ot  so  ;.  and  as  to  the 
time  they  have  lived  together  in  this  case-,, it  is- 
merely  an  aggravation  of  the  defendant  s  nib- 
conduct.  In  point  of  fact,  have  plaintiffs 
made  out  a  prima  facie  case,  taking  together 
the  evidence  and  admissions  ?  The  Court  is 
of  opinion  that  they  have  ;  for^  as  regards  the 
ill-treatment,  if  proof  of  this  were  necessary,  it 
eonceives  that  the  single  fact  of  the  1st  defen- 
dant having  taken  his  intended  bride  to  Iiis 
own  house',  and  there  instead  of  making  hey 
his  wife  by  proclamation  of  banns  (which  de- 
pended on  himself,),  having  kept  ber  for  a  con- 
siderable time  in  an  equivocal  and  degrading 
position,  is  as  gTossan  instance  of  ill-treattneritas 
can  well  be  conceived,  setting  aside  his  admis- 
sion as  to  bis  occasional  corrections.  And  as  to 
the  amount  advanced,  the  defendant's  conduct 
-  would  probably  have  warranted  an  actios  for 
damage^  independently  of  any  advancer  but 
taking  the  present  proceeding  as  it  stands,  it  is 
seldom  that  on  occasions  of  this  kind,  the  exact 
amount  can  be  ascertained  with  precision:  it  must 
.  therefore  rest  with  the  Court,  if  bo  additional 
light  is  thrown  on  the  facts  by  the  further  evi- 
dence, to  affix  a  reasonable  sum  for, the  advances, 
taking  into  consideration  the  station  and  condi- 
tion of  the  parties  and  the  manners  and  customs 
of  this  portion  of  the  population. 

In  case  3,036,  the  banns  were  duly  proclaimed 
and  regiatered,  subsequently  to  which,  the  plain- 
tiff alleges  that  the  1st  defendant,  instead  of 
allowing  the  Snd  defendant,  his  dang'htftr,  to 
be  "  conducled"  to  the  plaintiffs,  transferred  her 
to  another  person,  the  3rd  defendant,  who  took 
her  to  his  house,  where' he  states  they  .have  siuce 
lived  as  man  and  wife,  and  where,  he  adds, 
she  was  recently  delivered  of  a  child.     These 


I    ao;-.    .1 


IfiSS 


facts  are  denied  by  the  defendant.'',,  tlie  former  of 
whom  offers  now  to  conduct-  his  daughter  to  the 
plaintiff's. 

On  the  proof,  the -Court  is  of  opinion  that 
a  priina  fade  case  1ms  been  made  out  by  the 
plaintiff.  He  has,  it  conceives,  satisfactorily 
•shewn,  that  the  Sr.d  defendant  has  cohabited 
with  the  third,  by  consent  of  the  first.  But  now 
arises  the  question  on  whi-cii  the  colleot-ivo  judg- 
ment of  the  Snpveme  Court  was  principaliy  re- 
qnired,  viz.  :  Is  the  marriage  in  this  case 
•complete  ? 

'It  is  a  circHmstance  worthy  of  notice,  that  the 
Regulation  regarding  native  marriages  No.  9.  of 
1822,  requires,  in 'no  part  of  it,  as  a  condition 
■essential  to  the  validity  of  a  marriage,  that 
the  consent  of -parties  shall  be  recorded  by  any 
functionary,  cinl.  or  relignon-s  ;  or  that  they  shall 
appear-  together,  or  singly,  before  a-ny  such  offi- 
cer. The  two  sole  conditions  of  that  Law  are 
-a  jwlslication  or  licence  with  i-egistr.atton  ofban-ns, 
-and  subsequent  oohabilation  ;  but  even  for  the 
purpose  of  making  proclamation  and  registration, 
it  is  BOt'incuTnbent  on  the  officer  to  insist  on'thc 
.^pl"iearahcc  of  both  or  either  of  the  parties,  —  ho 
IS  to  proceed  "  when  applied  to^' ; — s-o  that  it 
is  not  only  possible  to  go  through  these  formali- 
ties without  the  consent  o-r  even  knowledge 
■of  the  parties,  bnt  bearing  in  mind  the  very 
tender  age  at  which  females  are  often  affianced  in 
this  country — on  which  occasions  the  banns  are 
frequently  proclaimed, — it  is  probable,  with  re- 
gard to  them,  that. this  will  occur. 

The  sole  evidence  of  consent  being  therefore 
"  subsequent  cohabitation,"  it  follows  that  the 
proof  on  tlfis  point  must  be  more  conclusive  than 
might  oihervvise  .be  required,  for  if  the  previous 
consent  of  both  parties  were  duiy  recorded, 
a  Court  would  presume  cohabitation,  except 
in  very  extraordinary  cases.  Now,  however, 
Riibseqnent  residence  together,  ■or  the  "conduct- 
ing" the  bride  according  to  custom,  or  the  i  roof,-! 
oi  familiarity  admitted  in  matters  of  this  natu-rtv 


Tlie  Ifc;. 
No.  Sof  18-rf 
<loes  Hot  ren- 
cl<;r  the  i>re- 
seiic'g-  of  thrt 
parties  nei^ee- 
sai7  to  Uie  va- 
liility  of  tha 
Eegistration. 
Unless  there- 
fore tlic  con- 
sent of  botk 
parties  i«  (tal.7 
r,ecor(led,'  tljo 
Court  will  re- 
quii-e  strift 
e.vi.lcnee  of 
suL^fiqseiitc©' 
liabitatiou. 


183S 


I    210    ] 


Tlisreis  no- 
thing to  pre- 
vent a  parent 
tccoming  '  a 
pai-ty  to  the 
inarriage-oon- 
tracf  of  his 
ehilj,  though 
ef  full  age ; 
and  in  ren- 
derino;  him- 
self ■  responsi- 
ble in  soiidum 
with  the  chilj, 
for  the  per- 
iwimance  of 
the  eontraot. 

Bnt  after 
maii-iage,  the 
remedy  of  the 
husbaud,  in 
ease  of  seduc- 
tion, (evea 
■with  the  pa- 
rent's con- 
sent,) is  on^y 
against  the 
aeducer. 


must  be  insisted  on  ;  and  to  infoi'  a  marriage 
from  the  mere  fact  of  occasional  visits  having 
been  paid  by  the  .intended  husband  at  the  bride's 
father,  though  after  publication  of  banns,  is  raore 
than  the  Court  would  feel  inclined  to  do.  But 
in  the  present  case,  the  plaintiff  originally  claira.^ 
ed  the  2nd  defendant  "  as  bis  wife  ■"  and  the 
defendants  in' corroboration  state,  that  during  1st 
defendant's  absence  at. sea,  the  plaintiff  and  she 
lived  together  as  man  and  wife  at  Ist  defendant's-, 
which  (as  a  fact)  is  in  no  way  contradicted 
"by  the  plaintiff:  it  follows  therefore  -that  the 
marriage  is  complete,  howeverinclined  the  plain- 
tiifmay  have  subsequently  felt  to  dispute  it. 

Such  being,  the  relative  position  of  the  parties, 
other  questions  arise  as  to  the  form  atni  mode  in 
which  these  actions  have  been  entered.  In  the 
first  action,  9,S55,the  father  and  daughter  proceed 
against  the  father  and  son,  which  in  other  eoun- 
trfes  would  be  irregular  ;  for  either  the  intend- 
ed bride  and  bridegroom  are  of  full  age  or  they 
are  minors  ;  in  the  former  case  they  should  pro- 
ceed alone,  in  the  latter  the  parents  only  appear 
in  a  civil  action,  as  guardians  for  them  ;  but  in 
none  is  it  necessary  -to  unite  them  in  this  shape. 
It  appeai:s  however  to  liave  been  viniversal  in 
this  Island,  under  every  system  of  lavf  that  pb« 
tains  here,  tointroduce  the  parents  on  these  occa- 
sions, and  to  render  them  responsible  .in  soUdiim 
with  the  children,  whatever  their  age,  to  mar- 
riage engagements  entered  into,  though  verbal- 
ly,'with  their  consent  :.and  as  there  .is  nothing 
unreasonable  or  contrary  to  an  express  Law  in 
this  usage,  the  Court  does  not  feel  inclined  to 
disturb  it. 

The  case  3,036  is,  however,  decidedly  irregu- 
lar ;  either-  the  plaintiif  was,  or  he  was  not  mar- 
ried. If  married,  as  he  is  shewn  to  have  been,r 
he  could  have  no  remedy  against  the  first  de- 
fendant ;  since,  as  the  father  of  the  second,  he  had 
fulfilled  his  engagement :  nor  against  his  wife 
for  an  ,  indemnification  in  damages.  H  is  sole 
seraody  is  therefore -against' the  third  defendapt* 


[.    211     ] 

Ami  tliis  olijoctlon  as  regards  tlie  two  first  dc- 
fendanta  is  essential,  and  cailnot  be  overloolted. 
There  ia  another  irregularity  in.  the  plaintiffs 
claiming  specific,  -instead,  of  general,'  damages. 
The  purpose  of  the  action  being  ho\Yever  ob- 
vious, and  the  parties  having  gone. to  proof, 
and  3rd  defendant  never  having  m^de  the  ob- 
•  jection,  which  is  purely  of  form,  the  Court 
considers  it  now  too  late  to  take  further  notice  of 
it.  The  District  Court,  however,  will  do  well 
to  notify  to  the  professional  gentletnen  engaged, 
that,  should  irregularities  of  this  nature  again 
occur,  it  is  not  impossible  that  ,they  may  be  re- 
fused their  costs. 

For  the  reasons  above  stated,  the  decree  in 
2,855  is  set  aside  ;  and  the  Court  below  is  to. 
■proceed  to  receive  the  plaintiff's  further  evidence. 
The  costs  to  stand  over. 

In  case  3,036,  as  regards  the  1st  and  2nd 
defendants,  the  decree  is  affirmed ;  with  reference 
to  the  3rd,  it  is  set  aside ;  and  the  Court  below 
is  to  proceed  to  hear  this  defendant's  evidence. 
The  co.stg,  with  regard  to  third  defendant,  are 
also  to,.stand  oyer.  When  the  evidence  in  both 
or  either  of  these  cases  is  complete,  the  District 
Court  wiil  proceed  to  pronounce  its  opinion  on 
the  proofs,  and  then  transmit  the  papers  to  the 
Supreme  Court  for  its  final  adjudication. 

On  the  whole,  the  two  cases  shewforcibly  the 
defective  state  of  the  Native  Marriage  Law,' 
which  not  only  requires  no  official  evidence  of 
consent,  but.  sets'  aside  the  universal  principlo 
that  the  consensus,'  and  not  the  cenciihitus, 
facif  nvj)iias ; .  and  is  also  evidently  opposed 
from  the  complication  of  its  forms  to  the  habits 
and  usages  of  the  native  population.  (No.  9,835. 
3i035.'D.  C.   Galle  (J.) 


m^H 


504.  MoTiamadoe  y.    Veliappen  Chelty.  Jiiilqmentof 

T       il   •                            1   ■    1                                          -I                                   ^  KoUUH,     C.     J. 

In  this  case,  which  was  reported  ante^.  137,  inNo. Si.D.c. 

the  Chief  Justice  now  delivered  his  judgment.  ManMir.    See 

"When  this  case' (which  now  comes  before  i""?;,    ''"*"' 


ISS-S 


[    212    J 

us  in  l-cview)  wns  heard  last  (Felniary  13tli 
1837),  I  was  unavoidably  absent,  being  com- 
jiclled  immediately  to  leave  Colombo  for  tlio 
Circnit.  It  was  then  however  agreed,  that  the 
notes  of  the  presiding  Jiidge^  should  be  taken 
as  evidenoe  of  what  passed  in  the  Supreme 
Court,  and  thatlny  learned  colleagues,  if.  they 
saw  fit,  should  advise  with  me  on  any  point  ■ 
which  might  arise  on  argument,  peuding  their 
sitting.  But  although  •  they  did  not  find  it 
necessary  so  to  do,  stiUI  am  persuaded  they  would 
think  me  blameable,  as  1  should  also  hold  myself 
to  bo  blameabl'e,  if  now,  upon  this  hearing  in- 
rioview,  I  did  not,  should  I  have  occasion  to 
differ  from  them,  either  on  the  whole,  or  in  any 
jiarticular,  at  once  freely  state  that  difference, 
giving  my  reason  for  such  difference.  I  have- 
therefore  felt  it  my  dirty  to  read  carehilly 
through  the  pages  of  these  proceedings  and  the 
elaborate  judgment  given  in  the  case  on  the  1st 
March.  I  have  also  attended  to  the  argument 
urged  this  day  ;  but  I  discover  no  cause  £or  in., 
any  respect  dissenting  from  the  judgment. which 
lias  been  given.  I  express  my  coneurrjence  ift 
it,  and  my  sfifisfaction  with  it. 

The  Kind's  Advocate  in    behalf  of  defendants  ■ 
and  appellants,  Mr.  Moiyan  ior  iilaiutiffand  res- 
pondent,, are   heard.     'I'hoy  go    over  the  legal 
and  technical   grouhds  already  discussed  in  the 
decree  of  tlie-  Supreme  Court. 

But  this  Court  sees  no  reason  to  alter  ita 
opinii>n  with' regard  to  them  ;  the  more  so,  that- 
ol  jcctions.  as  to  the  form  .ind  wording  of  the 
.exlii bits,  whether  well  or  ill-founded  according 
1o  Englisli  practice,  should  not  be  made  to  apply 
in  stiictne!^-s  to  agreements'  enta-red  into  in  a  re- 
mote district  in  'India,  whi'eh  shaald  be  intcrpre'- 
ted  on  broad  principles  of  equity.  As  regards 
the  objection,  for  instance,  that  the  exhibit  A 
contains  the  words  "  should  you,"  or  "  if  you 
should,"  instea'd  of  the  more  strict  terras  com- 
monly in  use  in  covenants  in  England,  muoli  may 
depend  an  the   translation,  more  on   the  idiom : 


[    S13     ] 

it  is  sufficient  tliat  tlio  eonclitious  were  perfectly 
uiiderstood,  and  in  part  executed  by.  tlie  parties 
themselves,  specially  as  these  conditions  were 
renewed  on  the  morning  of  the  10th  February, 
as  shewn  by  the  receipts  and  olah  of  that  date  ; 
and  that  the  exhibit  A  is  only  of  importance  as 
explanatory  of  the  engagement  then  again  re- 
newed, confirmed,  ai)d  ratified. 

It  has  not  been  disputed  that  Ramen  Clietty 
named  in  the  receipt,  is  the  Ramenaden  Clieky 
of  the  evidence,  oi"  that  the  Merapen  Ghetty  oi 
the  evidence  is  i\\&-  Meyappa  Chetty  of  the  re- 
ceipt ;  nor,indeed,  with  persons  acquainted  with 
the  usage  among  the  native  population,  could 
there  be  a  doubt  on  the  subject.  Objection  has 
also  been  made  to  the  amount  of  the  damages, 
and  it  hag  been  stated  that  the  Court  in  assess- 
ing damages  referred  to  the  evidence  taken 
ex  2iarte,hnt  not  vnthout  notice,  in  the  Court 
I'elow,  This  is  an  error.  Amidst  many  con- 
flicting statements  as  to  the  value  of  the  Fish-; 
eiy,  this  Court  was  principally  guided  by  the 
teatimony  of  two  trust-worthy  public  servants, 
the  District  J-odge,  Mr  HusJcisson,  and  the  Trea- 
sury clerk  Mr.  Ahvis ;  and  it  gave  full  credence 
to  Mr.  ITiisIdsson's  opinion  (though  he  referred 
to  the  evidence  of  the  renter  Mootoosawmy  an 
taken  before  him,)  from  the  conviction  that  Mr. 
Huskision  (the  Government  Agent  of  the  Dis- 
trict, as  well  as  District  Judge)  would  not  have 
referred  to  it,  had  he  not  known  it  to  be  not  in- 
consistent with  truth.  Nor  is  there  any  reason 
why  the  Supreme  Court  should  not  refer  to  this 
evidence,  which  was  duly  taken  before  the  Dis- 
trict Judge,  and  is  regularly  filed  in  the  cause. 
It  has  heard  Moofoosawmy  anew  for  its  own  sat- 
isfaction, and  to  give  the' defendants  an  oppor- 
tunity to  •  cross-examine  him  ;  but  it  does  not 
fallow  that  it  was  not  at  liberty  to  compare  his 
present  with  -his  past  evidence  in  the  same  cause, 
though  it  has  not  done  so. 

The  decree  of  the  Supreme  Court  is  therefore 
uuHnitnously  confirmed  by  the  three  Judges  in 
Ecview.     [No,  84,  D.  C.  Manciar,  (R.) 


183« 


1838 


C     214     1 


Jan.  10,-  J.  St. 


.  503.     Mirando  v.  Rodiigo. 

[The  following  order,  made   in  the  ease  No. 
1,517,  D.  C.  iVe^omSo,  directing  an  examination 
of  the  parties  before  the  Sni)rcme  Court  on  cir- 
cuit, is  inserted  liere  as  a  precedent.] 
Fovm  of  an         "^Vliereas  this  case  is  now  in   appeal  from  the 
Order  for  the   before  mentioned   District   Court  of  Negomho  ;  ■ 
examination     ^^^  whereas  certain  proceedings  have  since  the 
I'.cforc  the  Su-   date  of  the  order   of  the  Court'  below  been  in- 
preme  Court,  gtituted  and  had  ;  and  /whereas  it  is   considered 
and  resolved  by  this  our  Supreme  Court  of  the 
Island  of  Ceylon  that  it  will   be    expedient  and 
fitting  that' the  parties  and  vvitn esses  in  this  case 
shall  be    severally   summoned   for   examination; 
personally   and   publicly   before    the    Supreme 
Court. 

This'Mandamcnt  is  addressed  to  C.  P.  Lay- 
anl,  Esquire,  District  Judge  of  Negomho,  as 
well  as  to  E.  S.  Waring,  Esquire,  our  Fiscal  of 
the  Western  Province,  to  the  parties  in  this 
said  appeal,  to  the  witnessfes  severally  heard  ■ 
and  examined  before  oiir  said  District  Judge 
herein,  and  all  others  whom  it  may  concern; 
and  it  is  hereupon  directed  and  ordered  that  the 
said-  0.  P.  Layard,  Esquire,  Judge  of  the  Dis- 
trict Court  of  Negombo,  as  aforesaid,  shall 
give  or  cause  to  be  given  .to  the  said  parties 
herein-  litigant,  due  and  distinct"  notice,  that' 
their' case  is  fixed  and  appointed  for  Hear- 
ing before  our  Supreme  Court,  on  Wednes- 
day next,  the  twenty-fourth  instant,  .at  eleven 
in  the  forenoon,  and  their  attendance  is  com- 
manded at  the  Court-house,  Hulfsdorp,  at  that 
(lay  and  hour. 

And  it  is  further  directed  and  ordered,  that 
the  said  E.  8.  Waring,  Esquire,  our  Fiscal  of  the 
Western  Province,  shall  hereupon  give  or  cause 
to  be  given  due  and  distinct  notice  to  the  wit- 
nesses in  the  said  case  now  of'  appeal,  of  these 
the  premises   above  •mentioned,  and  that  he  do 


t    215     ] 


1838 


issue  or  cause  to  be  issued  summonses  to  the  said 
witnesses,  alike  of  appellant  as  of  rospondent, 
and  do  require  their  attendance  at  the  time  and 
place  as  aforesaid ,  on  pain  of  the  usual  penalties. 

■V^'itnesses  on  the  part  of  the  plaintiff,  A,  B. 

Witnesses  on  the  part  of  the  defendant,  C.  D. 

£No.  1,317,  D.  C.  Ncgombo.  (St.) 


Jan,   13.  (J.) 

552. —  Vidanelagey  v.  Isboe  Lehte. 

In  this  case,  the  Court  below  had  refused  the 
plaintiff  a  postponement ;  and  in  his  Petition  of 
Appeal  against  this  order,  the  plaintiff  made 
several  allegations  against  the  Proctor  who  had 
the  management  of  his  case. 
.  Jebemie  J. — If  the  facts  alleged  in  the  Peti- 
tion of  Appeal  be  true,  the  Appellant  has  his 
remedy  against  his  late  Proctor  ;  and  if  not,  this 
gentleman  has  a  right  of  action  against  him  for 
gross  defamation  ;  but  there  can  be  no  doubt 
that  in  the  present  case  the  Court  exercised 
a  Eound  discretion  in  refusing  a  further  post- 
ponement.    [No.  S,067.  D.  C.  Ccdtura,  (J.) 


On  0  Petition 
of  Appeal,  ill 
whitili  the  ap- 
pellant com- 
plained of  tlio 
conduct  of  liis 
Proctor,  Held 
tliat  lie  had 
liis  remedy 
agaiilst  liis 
Proctor. 


January  95.  (J.) 
633. — Dissenaike   v.  Hetteliewagey. 

In  this  case,  the  Court,  reversing  the  decree  of 
the  Court  below,  which  was  against  the  plaintiff, 
pronounced  judgment  as  follows  : 

Th-ere  is  reason  to  apprehend  that  it  is  not  an 
tiniisual  practice  in  some  of  the  ■  districts  far  the  ' 
real  parties — persons  of  some  substance^ — to  put 
forward  others,  as  claimants,  and  then  to  get 
themselves  called  as  witnesses  in  support  of  their 
own  case  :  this  is  the  third  instance,  at  least, 
of  the  kind  within  the  Court's  short  experience. 
On  such  occasions,  should  they  fail,  their  adver- 
sary is  left  with  a  very  insufficient  remedy  for 


"^Vliere  the 
real  party  en- 
titled   to   the 

property  in 
dispute,  puts 
forward  others 
as  claimants, 
in  order  to  get 
himself  called 
as    a  witness, 

he    may    be 
punishedsnm- 


[     216     ] 


Coui''- 


mai-ily  M  for  the  costs,  the  nominal  parties  passessing  little,  if 
eontemrt  of  any,  property  ;  and  when  they  snceeed,  as  they 
had  at  first,  in  this  and  the  two  other  instaiicea 
to  which  the  Court  more  expressly  alludes,  they 
of  course  swear  themselves  into  the  estate  in 
dispute. 

It  cannot  therefore  be   too  generally  known 
that  such  a  proceeding  is  nothing  more  or  leas 
than  a  gross  fraud  and  contempt  of  the  authori- 
ty of  the  Court,  punishable  summarily,  indepen- 
dently  of  other  consequences  of  fine  and  impri- 
sonment.    A  more  evident  instance  of  the  mis- 
chievons  consequences  of  this  practice  than  the 
present    case    furnishes,   could   scarcely   occur. 
A.  L.  E.  Lehhe,  when  called  upon  to  defend  hia 
title  in  his  own  per-son,   says,  "  I  can  have  no 
claim  to  any  part  or  portion  of  the  land  plaintiff 
BOW  claims,  and  I  have  no  evidence  to  adduce"  j. 
he  also  explains  that  "  his  trees  do  not  stand  . 
within  the  portion  of  the  garden  included  in  ' 
plaintiffs  surveys," — vihilst,  when  called  as  a  wit- 
ness for  the  original  Intervenients,  he  distinctly 
made  oath  as  follows  : — "  I  enjoyed  the  pro- 
duce of  half  the  number  of  trees  in  the  said  gar- 
den in  right  of  purchase  from  Lohoo,  until  four 
years  ago,  when  Comister  Aratchigey  Dines  die- 
possessed  me  of  the  said  trees,  asserting  that  they 
belonged  to  plaintiff,  and  that  plaintiff  had  an-  • 
thoriaed  him  to  take   charge  of  them."      H«.  , 
then    proceeded    to    state  that    he    had    been 
deprived    of   an   additional   fourth,    which  he 
purchased    from    one    Simey,    by    plainti|f  in 
the  same  manner,   adding   that  the   remaining 
fourth   belonged   to    one    Bahey   Tidahn ;    and 
he   thus    accounted  for   the    whole   garden  by 
giving   to  one  Babey   the  fourth   of  which   he 
now  admits   he  himself  possesses  the  principal 
share,    and    claiming   exactly  the   three  fourths 
(formed    into   a  .new  garden,)  which  belong  to 
plaintiff  as  ground-owner,  and  first  defendant  as 
last  planter.     Under    those   circumstances,  the 
Court   cannot   do  less  than  charge  him  with  the 


[    217    ] 


IftSS 


costs  incurred,  by  all  the  parties  to  this  suit,  nor 
can  it  refrain  from  announcing  its  determinaiion 
to  visit  with  much  greater  severity  any  reiter- 
ation of  thia  offence.  Indeed  had  not  his  depo- 
sition been  already  discarded,  as  proceeding  from 
an  interested  witness  (though  it  remains  on  record) 
it  would  have  be&n  the  Court's  duty  to  have  di- 
rected even   now  a  prosecutioa  in  nnotlier  shape. 

It  is  therefore  further  decreed,  that  the  whole 
of  the  costs  iijcurred  by  plaintiffs,  by  the.  several 
•defendants  and  the  rfenoaining  intervenients,  shall 
be  borne  by  A.  L.  H.  Lebbe  Conicapulie,  the 
last-called  latervenient. 

[No.    251,     D.    C.     Tfuigalle,  (J.) 

February?.    (J.  St.) 
554.     Toopahigay  Antlwny  v.  Dona  C^nstina. 

The  plaintiff  in  this  case  claimed,  amongst 
other  things,  certain  nets  left  to  him  .  by  the  will 
ciDanul  Qitejo,  the  husband  of  the  defendant,  parties  Imvo 
but  which  the  defendant  refused  to  deliver  to  the  i>"^  several 
plaintiff.  It  was  contended  on  the  pai't  of  tho  iwn'ranVinVc.' 
defen<lant  that  she  was  justified,  under  the  terms  tion  on  it,  tho 
of  the  Will,  in  retaining  possession  of  the  nets.       9°'?'''',7'P  ""* 

The  Court  below  having  non-suited  th«  plain- 
tiff; On  appeal,  per  Jeremie,  J. — This  case  turns 
upon  the  construction  to  be  put  on  the  clause  of 
the  VYill  respecting  the  nets, — which  might  bs 
doubtfu],  had  not  the  parties  put  their  ov\n  con- 
struction, for  several  years;  which,  being  reason- 
able in  itself,  the  Court  now  sees  no  reason  to  dis- 
turb. The  Respondent  is  therefore  to  continue 
to  retain  the  nets  as  she  has  invariably  done 
since  the  death  of  the  deceased,  together  with 
the  proceeds  of  the  net  she  has  sold. 

;£No.  13,763,  D.  0.  Colombo,  N-.  (J.) 


Oil  a  clo\il)t- 
ful  clause  of  a 
Will,  where  U I  e 


February  15,  {R.J.  St.) 

550. — Silva  V.  Felsingcr. 

The  plaintiff  in  this  case  having  let  a  House,      where  in  aw 
which  he  values  at  Ed,-3.  IGOO,  to   defendant,  action  for  u,.- 


i?r>8 


C      218     1 


and  occupa- 
tion, the  plain- 
tiff filed  an  ap- 
plication stat- 
ing that  the 
defendant  had 
sub-let  the 
property  to 
anotlier  party, 
and  that  they 
were  doing  in- 
jury to  the 
house,  and 
praying  that 
they  Ve  eject- 
ed therefrom  ; 
the  Supreme 
Court  directed 
that  the  case 
should  be 
heard  and 
decided  forth- 
with. 


commenced  on  tlie  9tli  December  las,  ati  action 
against  the  latter  for  £3.  6s.,  amount  of  four 
months'  rent  then  due,  and  £3  more  for  damages 
sustained  by  breaking  down  the  Walla,  &c. '  The 
case  was  fixed  for  hearing  for  May  next.  In  tlie 
meantine  the  plaintiff  filed,  on  the  16th  Decem- 
ber, a  further  application,  stating  that  defendant 
instead  of  personally  occupying  the  house,  had- 
allowed  his  brother-in-law  Mr.  Lovendahn,  to 
to  take  possession  ;  that  he  had  received  rent? 
from  neither,  and  that  they  were  doing  further 
injury  to  the  house  and  garden  ;  and  he  there- 
fore prayed  that  the  said  occupant  should  be 
ejected  therefrom,  on  which  the  District  Judge 
determined  as  follows  ; 

"  On  reading  the  application  of  the  plaintiff,  it 
is  decided  that  it  be  refused,  because  whatever 
damage  the  plaintiff  may  sustain,  he  will  be 
entitled  to  recover  from  the  defendant,  if  he 
proves  his  case  against  him." 

This  order  was  appealed  from  ;  and  the  Senior 
Puisne  Justice  having  considered  the  case, 
directed  on  the  7th  February  that  it  should 
be  heard  collectively  ;  and  the  Court  in  collec: 
tive  sitting  is  now  unanimously  of  opinion  that 
the  above  order  be  set  aside,  and  that  the  District 
Court  do  forthwith  proceed  to  hear  witnesses  in 
presence  of  the  parties,  and  to  determine  the  case 
on  its  merits,  reserving  to  either  party  the  right  of , 
appeal.  The  Court  is  also  of  opinion  that  a  rule  ' 
of  Court  is  requisite  for  the  purpose  of  establish- 
ing a  summary  form  of  process,  to  be  adopted  in 
cases,  which  like  the  present,  are  of  undoubted 
ijrgency. 

[No.  5,063,  D.  C.  Savan  Korles,  (J.). 


1.  The  defen- 
dants having, 
on  an  advance 
of£'20(),agreed 
to  supply  the 
plaintitl",  with- 
in a  months 


S59.     Parhtt  v.    Pctlachi/    Chetty. 

The  principal  question  in  this  case  arises  from 
a  claim  of  damages  for  a  breach  of  covenant. 

By  Agreement  dated  22nd  September  1836, 
defendants  undertook  to  dclis'er  to  plaintiff  25,0 
cwta.    of  coffee  of  good  and  approved  quality  ; 


L     219     ] 


1S3S 


perfectly  dried  and  picked,  fit  in  all  respects  for 
shipment,  and  to  tlie  satisfaction  of  plaintiffs,  at 
the  rate  of  £2.  per  cwt.  of  112  lbs,  English. 
They  received  an  advance  of  £260  and  agreed 
to  fulfil  their  engagement  within  three  mouths, 
on  a  penalty  of  £200  over  and  above  the  repay- 
ment of  the  £250.  On  the  9th  November,  the 
parties  entered  into  an  additional  agreement  by 
which  the  defendant  agreed  to  "  deliver  to  plain- 
tiffs witHn  91  days,  500  bags,  containing  each  4 
parrahs  of  good  and  merchantable  coffee,  picked 
and  perfectly  dried,  and  free  from  black  and 
white  beans,  and  entirely  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the  plaintiffs,  at  the  price  of  £3.  Ss.,  per  cwt.  of 
11'2[  lbs  English.  In  part  payment  they  received 
an  advance  of  £360.  There  is  no  penalty  stated 
in  this  latter  agreement.  Towards  the  acquit- 
tance of  their  undertaking,  the  defendants  made 
four  deliveries,  for  the  three  first  of  which  receipts 
were  given  at  the  time.  But  they  admit  that 
they  have  not  entirely  fulfilled  their  engagement, 
and  the  plaintiff  claims  damages  to  the  full 
amount  of  the  penalty,  in  consequence.  The 
defendants  reply,  that  the  fault  lay  not  with  them, 
but  with  the  plaintiffs,  who  refused  to  pay  them 
the  balance  upon  what  they  had  actually  deliver- 
ed, and  who  made  very  unnecessary  and  frivolous 
objections  to  the  coffee  actually  delivered. 

The  Court  is  of  opinion  that  damages  are  due, 
but  not  to  the  amount  of  the  penalty. 

"  Damages  are  due."  The  defendant  was 
only  entitled  to  payment  at  the  close  of  the 
periods  stipulated  for  the  several  deliveries  ;  or, 
with  so  heavy  an  advance,  at  the  close  of  the 
contract ;  and  as  to  the  objections  made  by  the 
plaintiffs,  they  might  at  least  have  tendered ; 
and  had  the  article  so  tendered  been  in  every 
other  respect  conformable  to  their  engagement, 
it  is  not  the  insertion  of  the  words  "  to  the.  entire 
satisfaction  of  the  plaintiffs,"  that  would  havo 
deprived  the  defendants  of  their  remedy.  Such 
stipulations  are  always  very  incautious  ;  but  yet 
a  ijarty  entering  into   them  must  bo  understood 


with  251  cwt. 

of    Coffee    dt 

£%  a  cwt. 
iirfd  that  they 
were  not  en- 
titled to  pay- 
ment of  tlie 
balance  till  the 
close  of  the 
period,  &couli 
not  refuse  to 
deliver  the 
Coffee  on  the 
ground  of  non- 
payment. 

2.  An  agi-ee- 
ment  to  deliver 
Coffee  "  fit  for 
shipment,  and 
to  the  satis- 
faction of  the 
plaintiffs,  "  is 
fulfilled  by  tho 
delivery  of  the 
best  kind  of 
Coffee  obtaina- 
ble at  aboutthe 
stipulated  rate 
in  the  market. 

3  The  plain- 
tiff, tliough  he 
objected  to  the 
quality  of  the 
Coffee  delive.- 
ed,  refused  to 
allow  the  de- 
fendants tore- 
move  it :  Held 
that  he  had 
thereby  elected 
to  receive  it  in 
performance  of 
the  contract. 

4.  The  mea- 
sure of  dam- 
ages in  case  of 
non-perform- 
ance of  such 
an  agreement 
is  the  probable 
loss  sustained 
by  the  plantiff; 
and  not  the  a- 
mount  of  the 
stipulated  pen- 
alty. 

0.  The  dis- 
tinction be- 
tween_  penally 


1838  [      220      ] 

and  lignidaietl  to  havo  rendered  himself  dependent  upon  tlw 
damages  is  pe-  pdgment,  Biid  not  the  mers  pleasure  or  the  ca- 
Law"  ot°Eng^-  P^ice  of  the  other  contracting  party.  They  shew 
laud.  that   he    lias    stipulated  to  deliver  the  best  kind 

of  merchandize  obtainable  at  about  that  rate  in 
the  market,  at  the  time  of  the  contract ;  and  if 
he  offers  goods  of  that  description,  he  is  to  be 
considered  as  having  fulfilled  his  engagement, 
though  the  goods  be  refused  :  for  it  can  never 
be  too  strongly  impressed  on  the  minds  of  parties, 
that  in  all,  and  more  especially  mercantile,  con- 
tracts, the  most  perfect  good  faith  is  expected 
from  all  sides,  and  Tvill  be  insisted  upon.  A 
breach  of  contract  therefore  can  never  be  excused, 
except  on  the  most  satisfactory  grounds  ;,  the 
more  so,  when,  as  in  this  case,  the  party,  owing 
to  a  considerable  rise  in  the  market  price  of  the 
article,  had  a  direct  pecuniary  interest  in  infring- 
ing his  contract  ;  but  on  the  other  hand,  pro- 
vided it  be  executed  in  good  faith,  no  mere  form 
of  words  will  prevent  the  Court's  looking  to  the 
meaning  and  obvious  intention  of  the  parties 
^vhen   they  entered  into  the  engagement. 

"  The  full  penalty  is  not  due."  On  this  point 
again,  the  same  good  faith  enjoins  that  the  mea- 
sure of  damages  should  bo  the  probable  loss. 
Penalties  therefore  which  exceed  that  amount 
are  reducible, "  whilst  to  that  extent  damages 
are  equally  due,  though  there  should  be  no 
stipulated  penalty.  It  is  true  that  in  England 
the  fnll  amount  of  a  stipulated  penalty  has 
been  occasionally  recovered  as  liquidated  dam- 
ages ;  but  this  is  peculiar  to  the  law  of  Eng- 
land. It  does  not  obtain  here,  (See  Censura 
Forensis  and  Vander  Linden)  ;  and  even  iu 
England  a  penalty  is  hardly,  if  ever,  recoverable, 
except  it  be  expressly  stipulated  "  as  liquidated 
damages,"  and  even  when  so  expressly  stipulat- 
ed, it  is  but  rarely  allowed  ;  the  equity  of  the 
case  overruling  almost  invariably  the  positive 
terms  of  the  agreement,  as  it  has  in  another 
country  the  plain  meaning  of  the  text  of  its  re- 
.cent  celebrated  Code.    A  penalty  in  an  agreement 


[     221     ] 

is  therefore  nothing  more  or  less  than  an  esti- 
mate of  probable  loss,  stipulated  at  the  time  of 
making  the  contract  as  a  criterion  of  the  risk, 
but  subject  to  be  re-considered  on  either  side, 
■when  the  loss  has  actually  occurred.  And  this 
Court  has  already  so  ruled  in  a  case  between  the 
same  plaintiffs  and  another  party,  in  January 
1837,  and  it  sees  no  reason  to  niter  its  opinion. 

The  Court  has  now  to  consider  the  amount  of 
the  damages.  But,  the  parties  are  at  issue  as  to 
the  quantity  of  merchandize  delivered. 

This  difference  principally  arises  from  the  con- 
dition in  which  the  Coffee  was  offered;  the 
plaintiffs  having,  as  they  state,  been  obliged  to 
^dry,  re-pick,  and  re-sort  it,  which  occasioned  a 
defalcation  in  the  quantity.  It  appears  l)y  the 
receipts  that  of  the  three  first  deliveries,  the 
first  was  accepted  conditionally,  the  two  last 
unconditionally, — the  first  receipt  containing  the 
following  note,  which  is  omitted  in  the  two 
others, — "  This  mu«t  be  dried  again.!'  The 
Court  is  therefore  of  opinion  that'  the  plaintiff's 
estimate  ought  to  be  taken  for  the  fir-st  ;  the 
defendants,  us  stated  in  the  receipts,  for  the  two 
others.  There  remains  the  fourth,  for  which 
there  is  no  receipt.  Respecting  this  delivery, 
Mr.  Lamhe,  a  witness  called  by  the  plaintiffs, 
states, — "  The  last  delivery  was  the  worst  of  all, 
it  was  wet  and  hot.  It  was  objected  to,  as  not 
according  to  contract.  Defendant  complained  of 
the  loss  he  sustained  on  the  contract,  and  pres- 
sed us  to  receive  it,  as  it  then  was.  I  refused  to 
weigh  it,  as  it  was  so  wet  and  would  lose  about 
20  to  25  per  cent.  Defendant  then  proposed  to 
take  it  away,  but  we  refused  to  allow  that,  as  ho 
had  large  advances  of  money,  and  we  required 
the  Coffee,  as  a  vessel,  the  '  Duchess  of  Clarence' 
was  then  in  the  roads.  The  vessel  was  consign  - 
ed  to  us."  From  this  deposition  it  is  clear  that 
the  Coffee,  instead  of  being  declined  was  ac- 
cepted ;  since,  though  the  defendant  offered  to 
take  it  back,  the  plaintiffs,  from  motives  of  con- 
venienco  to  themselves,  refused  to  return  it.    In 


1838 


^888  [    222     J 

so  doing  they  have  made  this  (Jelivery  their  own, 
for  it  remained  with  them  to  consider  at  the 
time,  whether  they  would  reject  the  Coffee  and 
sue  for  the  breach  of  covenant,  or  take  the  Coffee 
and  carry  it  into  account.  They  made  their 
election  in  favour  of  the  Coffee,  and  are  now 
bound  to  carry  it  into  account, — of  course,  at 
the  rate  at  which  it  vi-as  tendered,  and  must  be 
considered  as  having  been  accepted.  The  more 
so,  that  it  is  questionable  whether  they  were  not 
at  the  time  debtors  instead  of  creditors  of  the 
defendants  ;  and  that,  whether  so  or  not,  there 
was  nothing  to  induce  them  to  believe  that  the 
defendants  were  less  solvent  then,  than  when 
they  made  the  whole  advance.  The  three  last 
deliveries  must  therefore  be  calculated  at  the 
rate  set  upon  them  by  the  defendant, — the  first, 
by  the  plaintiff. 

Defendants    have  consequently  delivered, 

First  delivery Cwt.    189     3  26 

Second     do." „        191     1  10 

Third      do 116     3  25 

Fourth     do „       12r5     0     0 


624     1     3 

But  to  establish  the  deficiency  it  is  requisite 
to  ascertain  the  quantity  in  cwt.  stipulated  for  by 
the  second  agreement,  on  which  the  point  the 
parties  are  at  issue.  The  loss  to  be  principally 
considered  will  then  be,  the  difference  in  the 
market  price  of  coffee  at  the  time  when  these 
engagements  were  entered  into,  and  when  they 
should  have  been  fulfilled.  But  on  this  also  the 
Court  is  not  satisfied  with  the  evidence.  Its 
final  decision  is  therefore  postponed  for  the  pur- 
pose of  enabling  the  Court  to  receive  furtlier 
evidence,  prior  to  its  assessing  the  damages  and 
definitely  settling  this  account. 
[No.  16,230,  D.  C.  Colomho  S.  (Coll.)* 

•  See  I«^r%. 


ISSS 


:\rarch  1,  (K.  J.  St.) 

557. —  NaU^l  V.  CorteUiifi. 

Ebell  and  others,  Intervenient^. 

[Tliis  case  is  fully  reported  n?i^e,  p.  1(J7.  It 
cmiie  npin  appeal  upon  the  subsequent  proceed- 
ings, which,  had  been  directed  at  the  previous 
hearing  on  the  7th  Deer.  1836;  and  the  follow- 
ing' order  was  made  thereon  :] 

The  Supreme  Court  having  taken  into  its 
consideration,  in  collective  sitting,  the  further 
proceeding  in  this  cause,  together  with  a  petition 
iVom  the  plaintiff;  liiod  on  the  ISth-Feb.  last,  is 
of  .opinion,  that^  as  there  can  be  no  donbt  the 
SMid  plaintiff  had  a  personal  and  direct  interest 
in  discharging  the  debt  due  to  Gilbert  by  the 
late  Thomas  Naijel,  and  that  she  has  used  due 
diligence  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  a  cession 
of  action  from  the  said  Gilbert,  as  required  by 
this  Court's  former  decree,  the  case  be  referred 
back  to  the  District  Court,  with  directions,  that, 
if  it  shall  ap'pear  to  that  Court  that  tlie  said  debt 
was  discharged  by  plaintiff  by  any  other  means 
than  from  funds  belonging  to  the  Estate'  of  the 
said  Thomas  Nayel,  she  is  to  he  taken  and  deemed 
subrogated  in  all  the  rights'  of  the  said  Gilbert 
against  the  Estate  of  the  said  Nagel,  rh  fully  as 
.though  she  liad  obtained  a  cession  of  action  at  the 
time  she  made  the  payment. — [No.  3,193,  D.  C. 
Jaffna  (J.) 


A      Co-obli- 
gfir        haviiif^, 
pending    •  his. 
notion  for  cou- 
tiibution,    ob- 
tained a    ces- 
sion of.  action 
from  the    cre- 
ditor, held  en- 
'titled    to    the 
rights    of  th» 
creditor,  on 
proving  tlie   « 
due    payment 
of  the  debt. 


558. — Malcmictr  Tamhy  v.  Ahdid  Cader. 

This  is  a  plea  to  the  jurisdiction  on  the  part 
of  Intervenient.  The  plaintiff's  reply  is,  that  he 
comes  too  late,  because  the  1st  Intervenient 
only  appeared  after  the  witnesses  had  been 
heard  between  the  plaintiffs  and  defendants. 
To  this  opinion  the  Court  would  attach  no  im- 
poitauc?,  the  intervenients  lieing  evidently  the 
right  party, — the  only  one  tliat  should  have  been 
sued  as  defendant. 


1.    A    Plea 
to    the  Jnria- 

diction,  if 
foundeil  on 
the  residence 
of  the  deft,  or 
the  place  of 
the  cause  of 
action  .must  be 
pleaded  before 
discutishi,';  tli« 
merits.      • 


1S38  [     224     ] 

2nd. — But  the  Intervenient  has  liimself  plead- 
TenfenV"'^-  ®^  *'°  ^^^  merits.  Hence  ^question  arises  partly 
ing  filed  his  of  law  and  partly  of  fact.  Can  an  Intervenient 
Petition  of  jii-  plead  to  the  jurisdiction  after  pleading  to  the 
pleadinctothe  merits  ?'  And  has  the  intervetiieut  actually 
merits,  cannot  pleaded  to  the  merits  ? 
;i»ff''T'^!^         Exceptions   to   the   jurisdiction   are   of  two 

plead     to    the    ,  .     ,        '^      ^,  .         .■'        ,i        ,,       ^  /.     , 

.uristliction.       Kinds ;  as  they  arise   from  trie       nature   oi   the 

case," — or  are  established  for  "  the  convenidnce 
of  the  parties,"  The  first  may  be  urged,  at  any 
time  after,  as  before,  joining  issue,  and  even  in 
appeal  ;  they  should  also  bs  taken  by  the  Conrt, 
even,  if  overlooked  by  the  parties  ;  and  this 
class,  when  '  this  Island  was.divided  as  regards 
jurisdiction  inti>  various  Courts,  each  having, its 
exclusive  rights  and  powers — as  is  the  case  in 
most  other  countries  even  at  this  day — must 
have  been  very  numerous.  Bat  at.  present  the 
original  jurisdiction  devolving  on  District  Courts 
by  the  24th  and  following  clauses  of  the  Charter, 
is  so  extensive,  that  they  can  seldom  occur. 
True  the  24:th  clause  provides  that  Civil 
cases  shall  be  tried  dt  the  "  residence  of  tlie 
defendant,"  or  in  the  District  where  "  the 
act,  matter  or  thing,  in  respect  of  which  the  suit 
is  brought;  shall  have  been  done  or  performed." 
But  both  these  specifications  clearly  -have  refer- 
ence to  the  convenience  of  the  parties  alone. 
The  "  residence  of  the  defendant"  is  obviously 
selected  for  his  benefit  ;  and  as  regards  the  place 
Avhere  the  "  act.  was  done,"  this'  is  chosen  iii 
conformity  to  another  principle,  by  which  a 
person  entering  into  an  engagement  by  contract 
or  quasi-contract  in  any  place,  shall  be  understood 
to  have  selected  that  place  as  his  domicile,  so  far 
as  regards  tlie  fulfilment  of  that  particular  en^ 
gageraeut.  This  construc'ion  is  further  borne 
out  on  comparison  of  the  24th  with  the  2'Jth 
cliuse  of  the  Charter,  "by  the  latter  of  which,  Dis- 
trict Courts  are  invested  with  an  "  exclusive 
jnvisdictiSn  as  between  thetfi  and  all  other  Courts ;" 
but  the  District-  Courts  have  no  such  "  exclusive' 


[     225     ];  1838 

jnrisdiction  as  among  themselves  by  virtue  of 
the  24th  clause.  The" assumption  of  the  original 
jflrisdiction  of  a  District  Cpurt  bj'  the  Supreme 
Court,  ■would  therefore  leave  an  opening  to  an 
exception,  which  might  be  pleaded  at  any  time 
as  it  arises,  from  the  nature  of  the  case,  the  Su- 
preme Court  having  no  jurisdi-wtion  in  Civil 
matters  except  by  appeal  ;  but  as  betvceen  Dis- 
trict Courts  themselves,  the  defendant  may  waive 
a  privilege  established  principally,  if  not  ex- 
clusively, in  his  favour  ;  for  every  District  Court 
has  jurisdictioji  cases  of  the  like  nature,  and 
the  Court  is  not  expected  to  know  where  parties 
come  from,  or  where  an  "  act"  was  performed. 
Exceptions  of  the  second  class  must  therefore  be 
pleaded  in  limine  litis,  or  before  discussing  the 
merits,  and  the  Court  is  of  opinion  that  this  is  an 
exception  of  that  class. 

As  to  the  question  oifact,  whether  th6  Inter- 
venient  has  entered  on  the  merits,  it  is  clear  he 
has  done  so  by  his  petition  of  intervention,  which 
■went  exclusively  to  the  merits  ;  the  plea  to  the 
jnrisdiction  having  been'  only  tacked  on  to  the 
original  petition  subsequently,  after  the  proceed- 
ings had  been  had  on  the  merits.  This  plea  can, 
therefore,  only  be  viewed  as  a  substantive  and 
subsequent  motion. 

The  order  appealed  from  is  therefore  set  aside, 
and  the  case  referred  back  to  the  District  Court 
of  Colombo.  Though  this  case  was  not  made 
■collective,  the  three  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court 
were  present  at  the  argument,  and  concurred 
in  the  Judgment!— [No.  6,961,  D.  C.  Celombo, 
S.  (J.) 


Mar.  3,  <,J.) 
•  559. — Parlett  v.  Fettachy  Chitty, 

Final  Decree 

In  this  case  an  order  was  made  on  the  15,  Feb.  •".  ParUtt  y. 
(seeante  p. ai8.)dlrecting  evidence  to  be  taken  on  ^^(g'e"  fate! 
the  point  of  damages.    The  Court  having  now    p.  318.) 


\m  ■  •[    2SG  •] 

heard  evidence  on  the  point  reserved,  was  of 
opinion, — "  tliat  the  deficiency  in  the  coffee  stip- 
ulated for  in  both  agreements,  might  lie  taken 
at  2l6.cwts  ;  and  the  loss  on  that  quantity,  ow- 
ing  to  the  rise  of  the  price,  at  £1,50.  And  as  no 
special  damage  had  been  pleaded,  it  awarded 
that  sum  as  damages-  for  the  breach  of  the  cove- 
nant."—[No.  16,230,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (J.) 


Qui  Whether 
Ord.  No.  8  of 
1H34  applies 
,  to  a  joint  in- 
heritance. 


5^Q .-^Fernando  v.  Fernando. 

ThiB  was  a  case   concerning  a  Planter's   share 
and   possession,   in    which  the  Court  below  not 
having  heard  the  evidence  of  the  defendant's  wit- 
nesses, the  judgment  was  set  aside,  and  the  case 
remanded  for -further  evidence.     Jerbmie,   J. — 
It  is   not  certain '  that  the  Ordinance  of  1834^ 
regarding  Prescription,  applies  to  matters  of  joint 
inheritance.     This,  however,  is  too  important  a 
question  to  be  incidentally  discussed.     The  de- 
fendant's  witnesses  were  therefore  prematurely 
waived,  and  he  is  allowed  to  examine  them  on  dis- 
charging the  costs  hitherto  allowed. — [No.  2,866, 
D.  C.  Caltura.{3.) 


A    sale  in 
eiecntiop — 
hew  establish- 
"ed  iu  fevifdence. 


361. — Atchy  Zlmma  v.  Mahamadoe  Lebbe. 

A  sale  in  execution  cannot  be  deemed  proved 
until  the  documents  are  produced,  or  their  non- 
production  is  satisfactorily  accounted  for. — 
[No.  8,567,  D.  C.  Caltura,  (J.) 


March.  5,  (J.) 

562. — Ederevireachigey  v.  D.  S.  Wireivarne. 

It  is  a  The  plaintiffs  in  this  case  claimed  a  share  ont 

known     pac-  of  a  drove  of  cattle,  which   they   alleged  to  be- 

ly^^to'^hoid  a  long  to  them  jointly  with  the  defendants.     The 

drove  of  cattle  defendants  denied  the  plaintiffs'  right  to  any  of 


[       297 


IRSS 


the  cattle:  and  tlie   Court  below   haviiie  eiven   for  several  gen- 
, judgment   tor   the   detejulant,  tlie   plaiiitm    ap- 
pealed therefVocu. 

Jeeemie,  J. — It  is  a  l<nown  practice  through- 
out the  Island,  for  a  family  to  hold  droves  of 
cattle  in  comnion  for  several  generations  ;  and 
that  the  cattle  in  question  were  held  in  common 
to  a  very  receEt  period,  is  indisputably  proved. 
As  to  the  size  of  the  drove,  the  witnesses  spenk 
to  fifty  or  sixty.  The  plaintiffs  by  their  libel 
claim  sixty-seven  :  the  Court  therefore  conceives 
that  taking  the  number  of  fifty,  it  nwkes  every 
possible  allowance  in  favour  of  the  first  defen^ 
dant.  The  decree  of  the  District  Court  is  con- 
sequently reversed,  and  in  lieu  thereof  it  is  now 
decreed  that  first  defendant  do  forthwith  ac- 
count for  fifty  heads  of  cattle  to  the  plaintiffs 
and  second  defendant,  in  the  jiroportions  claimeil 
by  them,— being  a  quarter  to  each  family.  And 
that  he  do  further  account  to  each  for  the  profits 
arising  from  their  respective  shares,  for  two 
years  preceding  the  commencement  of  tliis  suit, 
and  up  to  the  day  of  final  settlement.'  In  case 
of  siny  difficulty  as  to  the. value  of  the  cattle,  or 
the  amount  of  the  profits,  the  same  is  to  be" 
•summarily  assessed  by  the  Court  below.  The 
first  defendant  is  to  defray  all  the  costs.. — 
[No.  329,  D.  C.  Tangalh,  (J.) 


563. — Brayhrooke  v.  Perera. 

This  is  an  action  for  a  breach  of  covenant 
brought  '  by  the  Deputy  Commissary  General 
against  Cornells  Perera,  a  Brick-maker,  who,  on 
the  2nd  July  1836,  undertook  to  furnish  tire 
Department  with  Bricks,  from  the  1st  day  of 
April  r836,  to  the  13th  November  1837,  at  £1. 
3s.  per  thousand.  The  Contract  provides  as 
follows  : — 

"  The  said  Comelis  Perera  engages  to  deliver 
o\:er  to  the  Commissariat  Department  20,000 
bricks   on   or  before   the    15  th   day    May,  and 


1.  Where  it 
appeared  that 
the  defendant, 
who  had  con- 
tracted to  de- 
liver goods 
withiH  a  cer- 
tain time,  had 
delivered  cer- 
tain portions , 
for  which  how- 
ever he  did 
not  receive 
payment,  and 
as  to  tUe   re- 


1838 


[     298     ] 


maitider,    was 

prevented 
from  •  deliver- 
ing the  same 
by  reason  of 
an  inundation, 
the  Com-t  re- 
fused  to   give 

damages  ■ 
against  him . 

3.  All  stip- 
ulated penal- 
tits  are  redu- 
cible ;  especial- 
ly where  there 
is  no  reeii'ro- 
ijity  .  in  the 
penalties. 

3.  The  re- 
ceipts for  the 
deliveries  not 
being  negoti- 
able, the  defen- 
dant was  held 
bound  not  to 
produce  them 
on  demanding 
payment. 


80,000  more  on  or  before  the  15tb  day  of 
August  1836  ;  and  also  engages  afterwards  to 
supply  whatever  quantity  may  be  required  to 
keep  up  a  stock  of  20,000  bricks  always  on 
hand  ready  for  immediate  issue." 

The  Agreement  then  contains  four  sets  of 
penal  clauses  entered  into  by  the  defendant,  be- 
sides his  consenting,  in  case  of  failure,  to  allow 
the  plaintiff  to  purchase  bricks  elsewhere  at  any 
price,  and  charge  them  against  him  at  the  price 
paid  for  them. 

The  plaintiff  in  his  libel,  dated  14th  February 
1837,  alleges  that,  instead  of  supplying  the 
20,000  bricks  due  on  the  15th  May,  and  the 
80,000  on  the  15th  August,  the  defendant  had 
only  given  on  both  these  stipulations  16,610 
bricks,  leaving  a  deficit  of  83,390 ;  and  that 
having  on  the  30th  September,  received  an  order 
to  supply  20,000  in  addition,  .he  had  only  fur- 
nished of  these  5,983  ;  and  he  claims,  in  conse- 
quence, the  sum  of  £177.  18s;  the  aggregate  of 
tlie  four  several  penalties. 

It  appears  from  the  plaintiff's  own  witnesses 
that  the  defendant  had  furnished,  not  93,593 
bricks, — as  stated  by  plaintiff, — but  63,583  be- 
ing near  three  times  that  amount,  and  upwards- 
of  three  times  the  quantity  deliverable  by  virtue 
of  the  first  stipulation  it  May  1836.  It  also  ap- 
pears from  the  same  witnesses  that  the  only 
payments  he  has  received  amount  to  £11  ster- 
ling ; — £8  in  March,  and  &'i  on  the  5th  July 
1836  :  so  that  there  remained  due  to  him,  on 
that  contract,' — ^^when  the  action  was  entered, — 
a  balance  of  upwards  of  £62.  sterling, — the  value 
of  more  than  50,000  bricks. 

The  defendant  proves  that  his  brick-fields  were 
inundated  during  the  contract,  and  that.he  had 
in  .consequence  found  a  sub-contractor  at  a  pro- 
fit to  defendant  of  about  ten  pence  per  thousand, 
who  was  prepared  to  supply  the  whole  quantity- 
required,  but  who  refrained  from  doing  so  owing 
to  his  ;iot  receiving  payment  from  the  defendant' 
for  the  8,400  that  he  had  actually  delivered,  and 


[     329     ]  IR3R 

the  defendant  adds,  "  If  I  had  been  paid  for  the 
bricks  I  had  supplied,  I  should  have  furnished 
the  hricks  by  purchnsiilg  from  others  ;"  but  he 
admits  that  there  were  delay>!  in  the  delivery. 

Under  these  circumstances  the  Court  cannot 
allow  "any  damages.  It  has  already  on  several 
recent  occasions  expressed  its  opinion  that  all 
stipulated  penalties  are  reducible';  and  most  es- 
pecially would  this  principle  hold  when  penalty 
is  accumulated  upon  penalty  for  the  same  act, 
and  where  there  is  no  reciprocity  in  the  penal- 
ties :  so  that  under  any  circumstances,  the  Conrt 
would  never, grant  more  than  a  full  and  fair  in- 
demnification, including  however,  in  cases  like 
the  present,  not  only  the  pecuniary  injury  arising 
from  a  fluctuation  of  prices,  but  also  an  ample 
consideration  for  the  very  great  detriment  and 
inconvenience  suffered  by  the  public.  But,  on 
the  other  hand,  the  party  contracting  for  Go- 
vernment, must  expect  to  be  bonnd  down  with 
equal  rigour  to  his  engagement,  and  if  he  fails 
in  them,  the  consequences  must  fall  on- him  and 
him  only.  In  the  present  instance  there  has 
been  irregularity  on  both  sides,  and  there. is  suf- 
ficient reason  to  infer  that  it  commenced  with 
the  plaintiff,  and  that  it  has  caused  serious  loss 
to  the  defendant.  A  very  great  consideration 
withGov^rnment  contractors  is  punctuality  in 
the  payments  ;  an.d  no  other  time  being  stijiu- 
lated  in  this  agreement,  the  monpy  became  due 
at  the  times  stipulated  for  the  bricks  becoming  . 
dne.  The  first  delivery,  was  on  the  loth  May; 
the  first  payment  was  therefore  due  on  the  loth  ' 
May.  It  amounted  to  £93.  The  delendaiit  had 
tli'^n  received  £8,  and  subsequently  got  £3. 
There  is, consequently,a. balance  of  £12  still  due 
on  that  delivery  ah)ne.  But  it  has  been  urged 
that  the  bricks  were  not  delivered  on  the  loth 
May.  It  happens  that  this  agreement  is  dated 
the  2nd  July,  or  six  weeks  snhseqiiently  ;  it  is 
therefore  retrospective.  Now  the  Court 'never 
can  for  an  instant  enfertaiu  the  idea  that  it  was 
plaintiff-'s  deliberate  intention  to  bind  down  the 


1S3R  [     230      I 

defendant  under  accumulated  penalties  to  the 
performance  of  a  physical  impossibility, — nor 
would  snch  an  undertaking  be  valid  if  en- 
tered into.  The  only  fair,  or,  indeed,  pos- 
sible inference,  therefore,  to  be  drawn  frpni 
Ibis  material  circumstance  is,  that  on  the 
and  of  July  the  plaintiff  had  no  cause  of  corii- 
plaint  whatever  against-  the  defendant,  and 
therefore  that  the  deliveries  due  in  i\Iay  had 
been  regularly  made,  or  that  any  trifling  de- 
lay had  been  most  satisfactorily  accounted  for 
and  remedied  ;■ — :in  either  ol  which  alterna- 
five§,  the  balance  was  certainly  due  on  the  9nd 
July,  \vhen,  instead  of  £5,  a  grgat  object  to  ■ 
men  of  this  class,  the  defendant  received  £3. 
And  this  does  away  with  efiect  of  the  first  let- 
tcr  put  in  by  the  plain titf,  whilst  it  greatly 
alters  the  view  to  be  taken  of  the  rentainder 
of  the  correspondence. 

Next,  as'to  the  observations  that  the  defen- 
dant  should,  to  obtain  payment,  have  produced 
his. receipts  for  the  deliveries, -and  demanded 
payment.  That  he  demanded  payment  is  pro- 
ved by.  his     receiving  £3,    and    it    must    be  re- 

•  membered  that  all  the  testimony,  as  to  these 
extensive  deliveries  and  ti*ifling  payments  is 
elicited  from  adverse  testimony,  in  contradic-. 
tion,  as  rega-rds  the  deliveries,  to  the  express 
averments  of  the  plaintiff's  libel.  There  is 
nothing  to  shew  that  the  receipts  vtere  nego- 
tiable, or  transferable  by  endorsement,  and 
any  objection  on  that  head    should   have  been 

•  explained  at  the  time  the   contract  was    signed-. 

The  decree  is  therefore  set  aside,  and  plain- 
tiff's action  dismissed  ;  and  as  there  is  no 
doubt  of  defendant's  irregularity  in  the  deliver- 
ies (he  admits  it,)  he  is  not  to  recover  costs. 
His  right  of  action  is,  however,  fully  reserved 
to  him  for  the  balance,  about  £62,  still  due  to 
him,  which  cannot  be  adjudged  at  present,"  as 
lie  has  made  no  claim  in  reconvention.' — 
[No.  171,  ■!>.    C.    ColomlJo,    S.  (J.) 


[      231       ]  1838^ 

May  9,  (J.  St.) 
56i.—Jiodngo  V.  Fernando. 
The  District  Court  has,  in  this  case,  directed  Apirtywho 
a  person  suing  'm  forma  pauperis  to  give  secu-  '"•!t''/j"  *'*" 
rity  tor  liis  adversary's  eventual  costf.  Tiiis  m/rnnapaupe- 
is  a  jjroeeeding  perfectly  novel,  and  which  "»  cannot  bo 
cannot  be  sanctioned.  The  precautions  taken  to"gfve  S^ 
to  prevent  an  abuse  in  suing  as  a   pauper,  are  rityfor  costs. 

set  forth  in  the  Kules,   anid  if   further  restric-  .  ^'^'■>  '^  **^' 
.,  .     ,  ,  ,  .  .  .         in  costs,  exe- 

tions  on  this  lorni  or  process  become   requuite,  cutioa     may 
they  can  he  considered  by  the   Supreme  Court  be        issued 
hereafter.     But   to  require  security  for   an    ad-  p|*g°„       *"* 
versary's  costs,  from  a  person    who  ha'  proved 
that  he   has    not  the    means  to    pay   his   own, 
were  to  deprive  the  pauper,  at  the  outset,  of  all 
relief  from  any  injustice;    whilst,  though   his 
opponent  may   be  exposed  to    some   inconve- 
nience as  things  stand,  yet,  if  he  is  succesful  ia 
his  suit,  he  will  be  always  at  liberty  to  sue  out 
execution  for  costs   against   the   person,   and 
thus  punish  him    by  imprisonment,  if  he  can- 
not pay.     The  order  of  the   District  Court  is 
therefore  set  aside,  and  the  case  is  to   proceed. 
[No.  4,88S,  and  4,886,  D.  C.  Chilaio,  (J.) 

May  93,  (R,  J.) 

[The  Hon'ble  John  Jekhmie,  Esquire,  was 
gworn  in  as  Chief  Justice.] 

[The  Hon'ble  Johk  Frederick  Stoddart, 
Eiiquire,  was  sworn  in  as  Senior  Puiine  Justice.^ 

M;iy  30,  (J.  St.  C.) 

[The  Hon'ble  Wil  iam  Ogle  Carr,  Esquire, 
was  8»ora  iu  aa  Second  Puisne  Justice.] 

565. — Taldena  Korale  v.  Gedera  Araui. 
Upon  very  special  circumstances  being  prnv-  When  after 
ed,  with  an  offer  made  of  payment  of  the  plain-  nia1'-"uie  de- 
tiff 'e  costs,  the  Supreme  Court  has  granted  the  fendant  pray- 
indulgence  to  a  defendant  of  putting  itr  an  an-  *^  *^°'  leave  to 

°  _  1-    1      .  1    1        1    "  1       answer,      but 

Bwer  after  a  general  aenial  has  been  entered  ;   atated  no  ape- 


W»8  [     338      : 

fial  oircum-  but  in  the  pregenl  case  na  faets  whatever;  are 
""""rt  fv"  speciitlly  alleged  in  support. of  thia  application; 
prayer,  "  the  there  is  only  the  geiieral  averment  "  that  defeiid- 
Coort  refused  alit  by  unfortunate  circumstances  was  prevented 
******  to  file  answer."     His  Proctor  had  been  appoint- 

ed also- some  days  before,  and  it  does  not  .ap> 
pear  even  that  there  is  any  special  ground,  of  de- 
fence, which  conld  not  equally  b»  {j;iven  in  evi' 
dence  under  a  general  denial.  Under  tbe.se  cir- 
cuniHtances,  to  permit  the  defendant  on  this  ap- 
ph'cation  to  file  an  answer,  would  only  be  to  allow 
of  an  evasion  of  the  Bules  laid  down  against 
delay  ;  and  the  Proctor  drawing  this  frivolous 
l*eiition  of  Appeal,  is  decreed  to  pay  the  costs 
thereof —[No.  7,728,  D.  C.  Badulla,  (C  ) 

'    June  6,  (J.  St.  C.) 

6^6.—Steema  Lebbe,  Odeyaf  and  others  v.  Setoette 

Oemma  and  others. 

When  on  a       Jjhe  plaintiffs  by  their  libel   state  thai   they 
•nestion       of  .i         »  r   'n  r\  j  i 

disputed  title  are    tlie  stepsons   01  lonria   Oemma   deceased, 

to    real    and  whose   fiist    hu3l)ai)d  Awakka  Lebbe  was   their 

perty,"thebAT  uncle,  and  the  second  S/«e»ia  Zeifce  Odeyar  their 

found  that  the  father.     They   claim  as  "heirs  at  la«,"  to   all- 

plaintiffs  were  tjjg  property    left  l.y    her,  which,   they  say,  wa* 

m'e«(i«,'""'*and  chiefly  derived  from   her  two  husbands.     Thia 

that  the  pro-  property,  real  and  personal;  amounts  to  £!J29. 12!)., 

Sie\an*8  of  ^cconiiflg  to  an  inventory  filed  by  them,  inclad- 

two  of  the  de-  iug  a  Royal  Sannas  fot  the  land. 

fendai  ts  who       'fhe  ■  first  defendant  replies  that  He  is  in  pos- 

had'"nr^dtmn  *eSsion  of  the  lands  and  two  rooms  on  account 

to  it;  the  case  of  the  estate  of  Tanga.  O.mma^  which  he  holds 

with^^°*diito'^  under     authori^ty     from    the     3rd     defendant,  ■ 

tions    to  ■  the  Taiiga  Oeifirm'i  si«tef .     This  pro^ierty  he  states 

D.  C.   to  ap-  origin.dly   beloihged   to  Aboabaker  Lebbe  Adjari 

drin'ovefthe  ^'^'^    bestowed  all  his    moveables  and   dwelling, 

plaintiffs,  and  hous©  oB  his  wife    Tanga  Oemma,   by  a  written 

als-ova  Beceiv-  document^  and   h,is  ren)aining   estate,  the   lands, 

property";  and,.  '^-Y    ^cbal  request.     The    1st   delendaut   states 

thirdly,  to  himself  to  have   been  iu  this    person's  service,, 

causer  the  per-  and,  charged   with- the   management  of  his  pro-- 

sonalty   to  be,        '  re.  rj  i     •.       l     u 

jai4  into      party   tor  forty   years.     He  adimta  be  iias  no 


■     233     ]  •  WS8 


legal  claim  to  the  esfate,  and  adds,  that  he  is  p»«-  Court,  pending 
pared  to  aconnt.  The  2nd  defendant  acfcnow-  the.suit. 
ledges  to  the  possession  of  Tanya  Oemmas  pfT- 
sonal  property,  which  he  holds  hy  consent  of  all 
parties,  and  also  declares  his  readimeRS  to 
account,  but  denies  that  he  has  the  Royai 
Sannaa.  The  3rd  dt-fendant,  who  states  herself 
to  be  "  uterine  sister"  of  the  deceased  Tanya 
Oemma,  claims  the  whole  property  as  her 
next  of  kin.  She  denies  that  the  plaintiffs 
were  ever  brought  up  by  the  deceased  as  their 
guardian  or  fustermother,  and  maintains  that 
the  pmperty  in  dispute  belonged  to  the  deceasedi 
in  right,  not  of  their  father,  her  second  husband 
-^bat  of  their  linele,  her  first ;  states  that  the 
plainiiff-i  enjoy  the  estate  of  their  father,  fr<Jm 
which  she  claims  one  eighlh  in  right  of  Tanyot 
Oemma,  her  deceased  sister;  and  she  explains, 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  1st  and  2nd  de- 
fendant, how  this  property  became  Tanya  Oem- 
mat,  viz :  the  house  and  personalty  on  a  docu- 
ment ;  the  remainder  of  the  real  estate  by  verbal 
bequest  of  Aboobaker  or  AwakJca  Lebhe. 

Hence  several  questions  of  law  and  fact ; 
vhich  it  would  be  incumbent  on  the  Court  now 
to  consider,  were  it  not  that  on  the  evidence, 
(ordered  by  decree  of  the  Sujireme  Court  of  the 
17th  May  1837,  on  an  appeal  from  the  decree 
of  the  District  Court  of  the  6th  of  November 
1836,)  being:  gone  into,  it  has  been  shewn  that 
the  plaintiffs  are,-.^if  not  in  a  state  of  total  idiot- 
oy,-T-in  such,  a  atate  as  renders  them  incapable 
©f  managing  tbeir  own  affaii's,  and  certainty  un- 
fit to  be  entrusted  with  the  care  of  their  co-heirs  "^ 
interest,  who  are,  it  seems,  under  age.  The 
pleadings  are  also  ipxfremely  confused  anrf  irre- 
i;iilar,-R-the  two  following  facts  alone  being  dis- 
tinctly established  :— 1st,  that  the  whole  of  the 
property  ih  dispute  is  in  the  hands  of  thelstr 
and  2nd  defendants,  who  can  have  no  claim  or 
title  to  it ;  and'  2nd,  that  these  two  persons  are 
principals  in  maintaining^  this  suit,  if  not,  iik. 
fact,  it«  sole  promoter*,,  thougli  %ke^-  have  net 


1S3H  •  [    234    j    . 

kind  of  personal  interest  in  it.  It  becomes 
therefore,  the  dOty  of  the  Court  to  take  the  pre- 
liminary measures  requisite,  for  protecting  the 
true  interests  of  the  parties,  for  securing  this 
property  to  its  right  owners,  and  enHbling  eiich 
to  bring  their  chiim  to  an  issue  in  |)roper  form. 
The  case  is,  therefore,  referred  back  to  the  Dis- 
trict Cdurt  of  Kiindy,  with  directions,  1st,  to  sip- 
piiiiit  a  guardian  for  the  plaintiffs, — the  child- 
ren of  Sleema  Lebbe, — in  the  manner  preticrihed 
by  RuK'  18  sec.  4  of  the  Kules  and  Orders;  2dl.v, 
to  appoint  a  Receiver  to  the  real  pn-perty  in  dis- 
pute, comprising  all  that  formerly  belonged  to 
Aboobaleer  Lehbe.;  and  Srdly,  to  cause  the  per- 
sonalty to  be  paid  forthwith  into  C^jurt.  What- 
ever claims  the  1st  and  2iid  defendants  may 
have  on  the  property  in  their  hands,  can  be 
taken  into  considt.'ration  on  their  accounting  for 
the  same,  and  for  the  rents  and  profits  «ri-iing 
from  the  real  property  from  the  day  of  Tonga 
Oemma's  death, — which  account  is  to  be  render- 
ed by-a  sepjrate  action  if  necessary,  in  presence 
of  the  guardian  to  the  plaintiflTs,  of  the  3rd  de- 
fendant, and  of  the  Receiver.  The  present 
suit  is  then  to  be  proceeded  in  by  plaintiff":, 
through  their  guardian  and  3rd  defendant  alone. 
Both  parties  are  at  liberty  to  amend  their  plead- 
ings, pointing  more  distinctly  in  what  right  they 
claim,  and  when  this  is  done,  further  evidence 
may  be  railed  on  either  side ,  the  witnesses  al- 
ready heard  need  not  be  e.xamined  again,  ex- 
cept the  parties  wish  it.  The  Court  will 
■  then  pronounde  its  decision,  subject  of  coursa 
to  appeal.  The  costs  hitherto  incun  ed  by  pbdn- 
tiff  and  3rd  detandnnt,  are  to  be  discharged 
from  the  common  fund,  as  are  the  necessary  ex- 
penses which  will  be  caused  by  irppointinga 
guardian.  Should  the  3rd  defendant  not  have, 
sufficient  means  of  suf  p  irt,  the  District  C'lUrt 
can  allow  her,  pending  the  further  suit,  a  mo- 
derate aliinony  from  the  common  estate.  The 
plaintiffs  have,  it  is  said,  their  father's  estate.— 
[No.  7,796,  D.  C.  Kandi/,  (J.) 


[     935     ]  1S8S 

bdl ,—Chitty  V.  Marimuttoe. 

The  defence  in  this  case  nmounts  to  a  plea  of  ^*'^'*^T*" 
part  satisiaction,  whicli  the  pliiintiflf  and  ap-  sibirtoVo* 
pellatjt  maintains  cannot  he  proved  orally,  on  an  satisfaction  of 
action  to  ricover  the  amount  of  a  bond.  aipeoialty.- 

The  luiiforni  practice  of  this  Island,  however, 
—a  practice  conformable  to  equity, — has  been  to 
aduiit  parol  eviden -e  in  proof  of  satisfaction  of 
a  specially. — [No.  6,706,  D.  C.  Trincomalie,  (J.) 


568, —  Vanderstraaten  v.  Fernando. 

The  District  Court;  it  appears,  decided  this. 
case  summarily  under  the  11th  Rule,  under 
which  it  could  act  only  on  the  statements  and 
admissions  of  the  parties  in  the  pleadingrs  on 
their  (XnminatinnB  ;  whereas  the  District  Court 
hiis  admitted  the  tvidence  of  a  witnesSj  on  be- 
h  ilf  of  the  plaintifif  and  respondent,  to  con- 
ir.i.lict  the  Stat' nv  nt  of  the  appellant.  The 
proceedings  are  referred  back  for  replication  to 
be  filed,  and  evidence  to  be  taken  in  the  usual 
manner.— ['No.  4,522,  D.  C.  Valtura,  (G.) 


The  D.  C,  if 

it  proceeds  un- 
der rale  1 1  of 
Sect.  1 .,  can- 
not adroit  the 
evidence  of  « 
witness  to  con- 
tradict .the 
statement  of 
the  part}. 


June  13,  (J.) 
569. — In  re  Sinne  Tamby  Caderie   Naide. 

In  affirming  this  decree,  the  Supreme  Court 
thinks  it  right  to  observe,  thatL"tfers  of  Admin- 
istration cannot  be  refused  at  any  period  after 
the  death  of  an  Intestate-;  but  what  may  be  the 
effect  of  these  Letters  of  Administration,  if  ir  be 
true  that  the  property  of  the  deceased,  was  di- 
vided among  the  heirs  shortly  after  his  death, 
is  n  question  which  is  still  perfectly  open. — [No. 
4,195,  D.  0.i\,^e^o»i6o,  (J.) 


Administ'-a- 
tion  cannot  he 
refused  a  any 
period  after 
the  death  of 
an  '  ntestate. 
Qu  ?  How  far 
it  may  affect 
a  division  al- 
ready made 
among  the  ' 
heiii). 


570. — Silva  v.  Sillinda  and  otJierti. 

The  plaintiffin  this  case  claimed  certain  lands,  A  Certificate 

and,  amongst  other  evidence,  produced  a  Certi-  ^ess?on?thougb 

ficate  of  quiet  possession,  in  support  of  his  titla.  not  oonclusirt 


J83S 


C    33fl     ] 


(gainst  a  sub- 
sequent clai- 
mant, who  can 
aatisfai'torily 
^coDuntlbr  bia 
tUei^ce,  ia  oon- 
cla8>ye  againat 
one  whose 
claim  h  as  be«n 
let  abide. 


The  Court  feelow  after  hearing  the  witnesses  of 
both  parties,  gave  judgment  in  favour  of  tjie 
plaintiff  and  the  1st  and  6th  def'endantg,,  accord- 
ing to  certain  rights  proved  by  them  res- 
pectively. 

On  appeal  by  the  1st  defendant,  the  Supreme 
Court  pronounced  the  following  judgment : 

"  The  only  defendant-  who,  in  the  estima- 
tion of  tlie  District  Court,  has  made  out  a  case 
fligainst  the  plaintiff  and  the  1st  ilrfendant,  is 
the  6th  defendant,  Cattadiegey  Bahha;  but  this 
happens  to  be  the  v«ry  person  who  opposed 
the  certificate  of  quiet  possession,  and  then  fail- 
ed to  follow  up  his  claim  ;  and  though  it  be. 
true  that,  by  a  judijKiPnt  of  this  Court  on  appeal 
from  Amblangodde,  No.  97G,  it  was  held  that 
Edictile  Citatiiin  under  the  old  form  "would  not, 
"  and  ought  not  to  be  held  conclusiye  against 
"  subseqiient  claimants,  if  such  claimants 
"  could  account  satisfactorily  for  their  silohce 
"  during  the  time  the  citation  was  pending  ;" 
this  process  has  never  been  considered  otherwise; 
than  cpnclusivOt  against  clai(nantB  who  actually 
came  for\\ard,  and  whose  claims,  it.  matters  not 
from  what  cause,  had  been  set  aside..  The 
decree  is  therefqre/reyerae.d  in  so  far  as  it  relates 
to  the  .f?th  defendant;  and  the  plaintiff  and 
1st  defendaiit  are  in  then-  several  rights  quiet- 
ed in  the  possession  of  the  priip°rty  claimed  ty 
the  libel,  with  costs. — [No.  565,"  D.  C.  r<JBi- 
g,a}\&,  (J.) 


Injunction 
granted  on  a 
mere  Petition, 
where  there 
i^as  no  tiipe 
to  bhtain  the 
lyacesaar;  affi- 
da.Tit. 


June  14,  (J.) 

4<   Ch<m!,hei;i, 

§71.— In  Pe  3.  M.  Banda. 

On   reading  the  petition  dated  Kandy  the 

11th  instant,  1838,  and  considering  that  there  is 

no  time  to  obtain  the  necessary  affidavit,  or  any 

auihentie  ^nfornjtation  on  the  subject  of  the 

petition;  It  is  ordered,  that  an  Injunction  do, 

iBW«  Hj^^inst  the  Honorable  Geot^*  Tvra^Mfy 


[     23T     J 


1898 


Esquirtf,  Fiscal  of  the  Western  Proviiace,  his 
officer  &t  officers,  atid  all  other  person  or  per- 
sons acting  under  hi&  or  their  authorityj  under 
the  penalty  ol  £100,  to  desist  from  proceeding 
to  the  snle  of  the  estate  called  Dodanwelle,  in 
his  Province,  until  he  shall  receive  ciirections 
herein  from  this  Court.     . 


June  20,  (J.  St.  C.) 
612.-1— AbeieRere   v.  Sttvd. 

In  this  case  the  plaintiff  nnd  appellant  ha« 
adopted  a  mode  of  partition  which  is  not  war- 
ranted hy  law  or  jiractice.  At  the  same  time  it 
is  the  opinion  of  the.  Supreme  Court  that,  by 
the  establishtd  law  of  this  Colony,  every  holder 
cf  property  in  common,  is  entitled  to  insist  u[ion 
a  fair  partition,  and  Where  the  properly  cannot 
be  coTiveniwitly  divided,  to  call  for  a  sale.  In 
c(i?e  Nf».  686,  troni  Galle,  it  was  ordered  by  the 
Supreme  C'onrt,  that  "  the  said  garden  be  actu- 
"fllly  dividtd  between  the  proprietors  thereof, 
"  by  such  person  or  persons  as  the  District 
"  tJourt  shall  appoint,  and  that  the  division  so 
"  made  should  be  considered  to  be  the  carrying 
"  of  this  decree  into  efftcf,  and  that  the  resped- 
"  tive  shares  of  the  parties  when  divided,  bo 
"  niarkid  liv  boundaries  ;"  and  the  Court  is  of 
npinien  that,  until  a  specific  form  of  process 
is  laid  down  by  some  nile  or  order  of  the  Su- 
^eme  Court,  the  precedent  established  in  that 
case,  should  be  adhered  to.  The  judgment  of 
the  District  Court  is  therefore  lif&rined,  in- 
Il^m^f^  as  that  thereby  the  Survey  dated  the 
lOih  August  183*5,  filed  in  the  cause,  is  can- 
celltd,  and  that  it  is  declared  that  the  plaintiffs 
«re  tnrltl'ed  to  fiv*  tweniy-fourths  of  the  gar' 
den  ;  and  it  is  further  ordered,  with  a  view  of 
effecting  a  partition  of  the  said  property,  that 
fhe  same  be  aetually  divided  .between  the  pro- 
prietors thereof,  and  the  division  so  made  bo 
considered  to  be  the  Carrying  of  this  decree  into 


Every  hold- 
er of  property 
in  oo"nmon,  is 
entitled  to 
call  for  a  par- 
tition or  sale. 
Form  of  Or- 
der for  Parti. 
tion. 


ifs*  [     238     ] 

effect,  and  that  the  respective  shares  of  the  par- 
ties, when  divided,  be  marked  by  bniindaries. 
Each  party  will  pay  his  own  costs. — [No.  1,543, 
D.  C.  Amblavgodde,  (J.) 

June  27,  (J.  St.  C.) 

■673. — Peer  Mahamadoe  v.  Sutherland': 

The  articles       The'  111th  section  of  ihe  articles  of  war  has 
of  War  allow  immediate  reterenc-e  to   the  piovisioiis   o-f  the 
"butdonofer'  ^''^  Section  of  the  Mutiny  Act,  which  allows  of. 
mil  execution,   an   action  being   entered,  but  does  not   permit 
execution  against  the  person,  or,  as  a  necessary 
consequence,  against  any  of  the  effects  belong- 
ing to  lielendant  as  a  sotdigr.     The  Court  was, 
therefore,   jiisiifieil   in  allowing   the  action  to 
proceed,  but  it  will,  of  course,  be  cautious  how 
it  permits  execution. — [No.  6,181,  D.  C.  Trin. 
comalie,  (J.) 

574  — Ismael  Lehb*  v.  Seka  Lehhe, 

Where    the        The  defendant  in  this  case,  who  was'siied  on 

^ifee'df  or°a  *   ^"""^    ^^''^^  a   penalty,   appealed   against   the 

penal     Bond,  judgment  of  the  Court  below,  on  the  giound  that 

the     (  curt    jt  decreed  him  to  pay  interest,  whereas  none  was 

"Tnterta"^^    claimed  in  the  lihel. 

though-  not  Jekemie,  J. — Though  no  interest  baa  been  de- 
claimed in  inandei  by  the  libel,  the  penalty  of  the  bond  was, 
the      Libel.  ,  .    ^      ■'     .         .i  •  i  ,v  i       i 

and  uitercst  is  nothing  nioie  or  less   than  a  legal 

pe.nalty,  recoverable  for  undue  delay  in  the  pay- 
ment of  the  principal:  when, therefore,  the  conven- 
tional penalty  was  set  aside,  the  legal  (lenalty  be- 
came due.— [No;  2,886,  D.C.  Galle,  (3.) 


July  4,  (J.  St.) 
675. — PilUndevidahnelagey  v.    runoh^hemeg^. 
In  directing       All   persons   of  either   sex,  however  repng- 

oSes^'anl  "*«'  ''  «»^y  \^  '"  "^^'"^  h^Y)n'i^,  are  bound  to 
witnesses,  the  appear  and  give  testimony  in  Courts  of  Law, 
Court  will,  in  ^hen  such  testimony  is  requisite  in  furtherance 
«nstom«      of  ^i  ^^  ^^^^  of  justice.     But,  on   the.  other  band 


[     239 


18S8 


their  sentiments  and  feelings  are  not  to  bo  wan- 
tonly, vexatiously,  or  maliciously  outraged,  at  the 
caprioe  of  litigious  suitors.— [No.  4,169.  D.  0. 
Matura,  (J.) 


the    oountiy, 

respect  their 

feelings. 


July  7.  (J.  St.  C.) 
676. — Fhillppo-  Vidahnelagey  v.  D.~  H.   Bias. 

This  was  an  action  for  false  arrest.  The 
plainiiif  complained  that  the  defendant  had  in  a 
previous  case  arrested  him  on  a  Writ  of  Execu- 
tion pending  an  appeal  from  the  judgment. 

Jeremie  J. — Had  the  defendant  arrested  the 
plaintiff  before  ihe  expiration  of  the  period  al- 
lowed for  entering  an  appeal,  it  would  have  been 
n  very  serious  and  important  question  to  consider 
whether  damages  could  be  recovered.  But  in  the 
present  case, the  decree  had  become  final  when  the 
writ  of  execution  was  issued,  and  the  subsequent 
appeal  was  allowed  as  an  indulgence.  The  Court 
is  therefore  unanimously  of  opinion  that  an  actiou 
fur  damages  does  not  lie. 

The  decree  of  the  District  Court  is  thereforo 
reversed,  and  plaintiff's  libel  dismissed,  without 
costs. — [No.  2,u77,  D.  C.  Amblangodde,  (J.) 


In  re  Casim  Bibie. 
677. — Application  of  Svgee  Bibie. 

The  Interlocutory  Order  of  the  District  Court 
of  Trincomaiie  is  affirmed,  as  to  the  rejection 
of  the  application  of  the  appellant  for  a  grant  of 
general  administration,  w-ithout  furnishing  secu- 
rities ;  but  und^r  the  special  circumstances  of 
this  ca.ie,  the  appellant  being  clearly  unable  to 
furnish  the  usual  security,  and  appearing  to  have 
a  claim  to  the  whole  residuary  estate  of  the  de- 
ceased, as  her  mother  and  sole  next  of  kin,  the 
District  Court  might  allow,  upon  the  personal 
Bond  of  the  appellant,  without  requiring  the 
usual  sureties,  a  limited  grant  of  administra- 
tion to  be  issued  to  her,  for  the  purpose  only  of 
collecting  the  outstanding  credits  of  the  deceased, 


Qu  ?  VlTiethsr 
an  arrest  befor* 
the  expiration 
of  the  period 
allowed  for  ap- 
peal, would  be  ft 
falsa  ai'rest  1 


Where  it  ap- 
peared th.ttlis 
applicant    lor 

administra- 
tion  was  un- 
able to  furnish 
security,  but 
was   the  sole 
next  to  the  de- 
ceased, the 
Court  directed 
a  limited 
grant. 


lass 


[     940 


The  Pr  oxy  of 
«(T;e  of  Kcvcral 
Partiiei'fl    is 
Bufficient  to 
ftutlicirize     an 
action. 


ami  paying  the  sums  received  on  account  thereof 
into  the  Court,  to  be  deposifed  at  intM-est,  until 
nich  time  as  is  necessary  to  ascertain  whether 
any  and  what  debts  are  dne,  or  if  any  will  has 
been  made  ;  when  the  District  Court  can  make 
Buch  further  order  therein  as  may  be  required  ; 
and  s«liject  to  such  further  order,  and  untii  the 
name  be  made,  the  interest  xjf  any  sum  so  de- 
posited shall  he  paid  over  to  tke;  appellant  for 
iiv-T  own  U6e. — I  No.  6,3T.i,    D.   C.    2'rineotnalie; 

August  25,,  (J.) 

f)T8.  —  Oadema  Lehbe  and   another  v.  Istova  An- 
thony and  another. 

T1d(i«  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  brother  was 
wan-aiuted  in  signing  his  brother's  name  ;  but 
the  Prox}  wais  a  joint  one,  and  the  signature 
of  one  of  the  partners  was  sufficient  to  authorize 
the  action. — [No.  4,306,  D.  C.  BuUkaha,  {J'.) 

September  5,  (J.) 
57!>.  —  Cader  Lebhe  y.  Walker. 


In  an  action 
for  woik  and 
lal^oar,  wLere 
tiie   defundaiit 

pleaded  a 
■written  agrte-  - 

tftent,  and 

♦hat  one  o(  the 

conditions 

thereof  had 

be«n     brokt-n 

fty  thepIahiLiiT, 

bnt  relused  to 

ptoduca      the 

itj;reer&ent;  the 

Court  en'ered 

up.    judgment 

for  Jjhe  plain- 

tiff. 


It  is    proved  that  a  s.peeial    agreement   was 
drawn  up    and  d<jliveretl  to    the  defendant  and 
respondent.     This  document  the  defendant  has 
not  produced.     Me  decliued  an  arbitration  and 
relused  to  name  Conjmissio.ners,  even  to  ascer- 
tain the  anjiount  and  value  of  the  work  perform- 
ed,  dechiring  that  plaintifl!  had  not  done    suffi- 
cient Jor  the   amount  lie    hud  actually  received, 
viz.,  £10,  which,    by  the  unanimous  Tvcport  of 
the  Cunmiissioners,    proves  to  be  incorrect :  for 
it  is  shewn  by  them,  that  the  work  actually  per- 
formed is.  equal  in  value  to  ^2'i  68.     Under  s-uch 
circumstancea  the    Court,    notwithstanding  the 
admission  of  the  plaintiff  as  to  one  of  the  con- 
ditions of  his  engagement,  conceives  that  there 
is  no  sufficient  cause  to  deviate  from  the  general 
prijiciplo,     that   one    party    shall  not    undaly 
profit  by    tho  labour  and    industry   of  another. 


2-tl 


19W 


The  condition  that  tlie  houao  slionkl  he  put 
ill  perfeU  repair,  may  liiave  been  made,  and  pro- 
hubly  was,  oiae  of  sever*!  conditions ;  ifor  tfeera 
■niaat  have  been  some  motive  for  withholding 
tlie  written  agreement ;  and  as  all  the  conditionii 
connot  be  known  through  the  act  of  tbe  ■defen- 
dant himself,  the  C'«irt  is  not  to  attach  itself  t^ 
this  one  specific  tjondition,  or  to  deprive,  npoa 
that  ground,  the  plaintiff  of  a  fuir  and  eq»it- 
ftble  remuneration  fw  his  labour. 

The  decree  is  therefore  rever-sed,  and  defen- 
dant adjudged  to  pay  the  plaintiff  the  sum  of 
£94  8s., (as  assessed  by  the  commission,)  deduct- 
ing the  S,\0  already  paid,  with  interest  from  the 
day  the  action  was  brought,  and  costs. — X^o. 
18,701,  D.  C.  Colombo,    S.  (J.) 


580.. 


Sept.  19,  (J.; 
-{raiffanecfeff  v.  JSudalenne  Unanse. 


■It  is  clear  that  the  defendant  was  responsible 
'and  hound  to  account  for  tlie  property,  as  it 
\vfts  in  his 'possession  ;  but  it  is  also  cleai-  that, 
as  he  received  no  remuneration,  he  was  not 
bound  -to  take  thaf  scrupulous  care  of  it,  that 
would,  otherwise  have  heea  required  of  him. 
And  he  has  shewn  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
District  Jud^e  and  Assess'ors  ,that  the  paddy 
^■as  actually  stolen,  whilst  the  negligence  that 
ied  to  the  theft,  is,  under  the  circumstances,  to 
4)6  iimpated  rathei'  to  the  plaintiff.  -  [No.  1,741, 
©.  C.  Eatnapom,  (J.) 


A  BftilaB, 
who  is  not  to 
receive  any  re- 
Hiuneratiori  for 
the  custody  of 
property.is  not 
bound  to  take 
that  scrupu- 
iotts  cste  of  it, 
wliioh  waujd 
t>thei-\visj  b« 
Inquired  of 
hioi. 


581. —  Casie  LMe  v.  Sinne  Packier. 

The  plaJKitilf  brought  this  a/ction  to  recovei- 
certai.n  monies  fi^om  tlie  defendant ;  to  which 
ihe  d^fdHdant  answeited  that  i»e  had^giveti-a 
iBond  for  tJhe  amoant  to  the  plaintiff^  kitic  part- 
«ier  Gatioe  LeMe  Mmrean.  .Judgment  having 
been  given  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff  in  ihe'Gourt 


Where  a  (le'bt- 
or  ot  -a  injn 
graritea  a  136tid 
to    one   of   the 

partner's  and 
the  other  part- 
ner, after  a  suh- 
aecjuent    (Usse- 


18SS 


[     2tf5>.     ] 


hition  of  the 
partnership, 
sued  the  debtor 
for  the  amount, 
Held  that  the 
plaintiff  had  no 
right  of  action. 


A  Proctor 
«hpn  called 
Qpon  to  report 
upon  n  Pau- 
per-petition, 
is  bound  only 
to  inquire  in- 
to the  case  of 
the  petitioner, 
and  not  to  go 
into  the  possi- 
ble defence  of 
the  opponent 
upon  informa- 
tion obtained 
firooa  liim. 


below,  the  defendant  appealed  llierefrom,  and 
per  Jeremie,  J. — "  The  individual  who  has  been 
examined  as  a  witness,  being  plaintilTs  late 
partnor,  should,  if  heard  at  all,  have  been  made 
to  intervene  and  examined  as  a  party.  But  the 
District  Court  will  perceive  on  referring  to  this 
Court's  last  deeree.  {ante,  p.  154),  that  the  onut 
^ro&aredr  fell  upon  the  plaintiff:  it  was  for  him 
to  establish  the  fact  that  he  had  notified  to  the  de- 
fendant that  he  the  plaintiff  was  the  liquidating 
partner,  which  he  has  not  done.  Indeed  it  is 
now  shewn  by  the  production  of  the  Bond,  given 
by  defendant  to  Cattoo  LehheMarcan,  which  bond 
is  not  disputed  by  the  plaintiff,  that  it  was 
given  before  the  dissolution  oi  the  partnership, 
so  that  the  plaintiff  never  had  from  that  date 
a  right  of  action  against  the  defendant. 
For  the  bond  w.-ts  legally  given  to  his 
partner,  and  the  defendant  was  bound  thence- 
forth to  pay  the  bearer  of  the  bond.  Plaintiff's 
action  is  therefore  dismissed  with  costs.  The 
partners  roust  settle  their  accounts  among  them- 
selves ;  but  are  not  to  molest  third  parties 
because  of  their  private  differences". — [No.  4,788, 
D.  C.  Uttuan  Kandjj,  (J.) 


682. — Oedoema  Lehhe  v.  Govt.  Agent,  N.  P. 

It  appears  to  the  Supreme  Court  that  Proctors 
throughout  the  Northern  Province  go  somewhat 
beyond  their  duty,  when  Pauper  Petitions  are 
enferred  to  them.  They  ought,  in  fact,  only  to 
enquire  whether  the  applicant  has  made  out  a 
good  jjrima  facie  case,  and  not  to  go  into  the 
possible  answer  to  that  case  by  means  of  informa- 
tion obtained  from  his  opponent.  The  check 
upon  paupers  wilfully  deceiving  the  Court  is  by 
punishment,  which  n)ay  also,  m  some  cases,  ex- 
tend to  the  witnesses  who  have  made  an  affida- 
vit in  their  favour ;  but  to  call  upon  a  Proctor  to 
investigate  both  sides,  before  the  pauper  can 
bring  his  case  into  Court,  is  to  make  hira  an 
additional  Judge  in  the  cause,  which  was  never 
contemplated. 


[     243      ] 


lK.S.*t 


On  tlie  sooond  point  taken  by  ]\ili\  Toiissnint 
in  llie  present  case,  be  is  clearly  inistaken.  Tlio 
Prescription  Ordinance  does  not  apply.  And  as 
rejiariis  the  first,  did  be  obtain  proof  that  the 
applicant  was  still  indebted  to  Government  from 
the  admission  of  ihc  applicant  himself,  or  bis  own 
witnesses;  or  did  he  get  it  from  the  Government  ? 
If  frciHi  the  former,  viz.  the  applicant,  or  bia 
witnes.ses,  he  was  right  in  reporting  as  he  did  ; 
if  from  the  latter,  he  was  not  warranted  in  mak- 
ing the  inquiry.  'J~he  Supreme  Court  is  aware 
that  Proctors  have  erred  in  this  respect  from  tlie 
best  motives  ;  it  theref  ne  imputes  no  blama  to 
them,  whilst  it  feels  bound  J^o  correct  a  defec- 
tive'practice. 

The  case  is  referred   back   for  the  Proctor's 
farther  report. — [No.  37,  D.  C.  Jaffna,  (J). 


Sept.   19,    (J). 

683. —  Welayden  v.  Appoo  Chetty. 
The   defendant    in    this  case  appealed  against 
the  judgment  of  the  Court  below,  on  the  ground 
that  he  had  not  been  served  with  notice. 

Jeremie  J. — This  is  a  very  frivolous  appeal. 
The  appellant  must  have  known  that  if  his  state- 
ment was  true,  viz.,  that  he  was  not  served  with 
!i  notice,  though  the  Fiscal  had  duly  reported 
Bervice  of  notice,  bis  remedy  was  not  by  appeal. 
His  object  was,  however,  evidently  to  obtain  a 
delay.  The  decree  of  the  District  Court  of 
Jaffna  is  affirmed  with  double  costs. —  [No.  5,608, 
D:  Q.Jaffna,  (J). 


6&4. —  Oemeatte  v.  Welayden. 

It  appears  to  the  Supreme  Court  that  Proc- 
tors throughout  the  Northern  Province  go  some- 
what beyond  their  duty,  when  Pauper  Petitions 
•re  referred  to  them.  They  ought,  in  fact,  only 
to  enquire  whether  the  applicant  hss  made  out 
a  good  prima  facie  case,  and  not  to  go  into  the 
possible  answer  to  that  case  by  meaus  of  informa- 


judgment  lias 
been  entered 
against  a  de- 
fendant wit'i- 
out  notice,  liis 
remedy  is  not 
by  appeal. 

The   Ajjpeal 
being   frivo- 
lous,   the    ap- 
pellant   wna 
cast  in  doubltt 
costs. 


A     Proctoi-, 
when  called 
upon    to    re- 
port on  a  Pan- 
per  vetition, 
is   not  bound 
to    investigate 
both  sides    of 
the  case. 


1S8S 


[     244 


lion  obtained  from  his  opponent.  Tlie  clieck 
upon  paiVpevs  wilfully  deceiving  the  Court  is  lay 
putiishment,  which  may  also,  in  some  cases,  ex- 
tend to  the  witnesses  who  have  made  an  affida- 
vit in  their  favour  ;  but  to  call  npoB  a  Proctor  te 
investigate  both  sides,  before  the  patiper  wn 
bring  his  onse  into  Coilrt,  is  to  maks  him  an  ad- 
ditional Jndge  in  the  cause,  which   was    never 

contemplated. — [No. ,  JD.  C.    WeUegamme, 

(J). 


No  action 

lies  agoinat 

«  Surgeon  for 

having    orler- 

ed    out    the 

Main  tiff    from 

a  room  in 
which  the  -for- 
mer -was    per- 
Jbrming  his 
dttties  as  Vac- 
cinatot. 


Sept.  ae,  (J.  c.) 

585. — Armogem  v.  Starh. 

The  defendant  use<]  aiigry  gestnTes  towards 
the  plaintiff;  he  ordered -him  to  leave  the  place 
they  were  in,  without  aiiy  insulting  language 
and  without  striking  him. 

.  Now  what  was  tlie  provocation  ? 

The  pliaintiff  is  a  servant  ;  the  defendant  a 
Regimental  Surgeon,  employed  at  the  time  in 
an  important  but  unpopular  Government  duty — 
vaccinating  the  native  inhabitants,  Th«  «-pSt 
selected  for  this  purpose  was  a  Government 
School,  into  which  premises  the  plaintiff -entered 
Vy  leading  over  the  wall.  He  then  failed  in  the 
usual  courtesies  to  a  superior  in  station,  -and  so 
conducted  himself  as,  in  the  estrmatiwn  both  ■»( 
defendant  'and  his  Medical  Assistaajt,,  beAlea 
others,  to  interrupt  them  in  their  duty.  £xtt  thfi 
place  was  "  as  public  as  the  Court."  Supposing 
it  to  have  been  bo,  will  it  be  cointended  that  he, 
who  in  the  opinion  of  the  judge  disturbs, the 
proftecdinigs  of  a  Court — whatever  the  natuTe  of 
the  tlisbiirba'nce — is  not  liable  to  be  vemove'l, 
•whetlireT  standing  iTnmediately  outside  or  insidte 
the  Court  ?  And  what  the  j'udge  bad  a  right  to 
tlo,  so  had  DticlOf  Stmk  -.  tie  was  at  liberty  to  in- 
8«t  'ofi  .proper  order  being  inaititfiined  ;  "to  TEt[t)iit* 
the  TOtbiiraW*!  «f  those  wlio  iiiterrnpt*d  %■;  t» 


[    245    1                                     '«« 
•-  "•  \ ^ — ' 

enf(«-Ce  his  oi-dei"  by  the  use  af  modevftte  force  ; 
and  if  they  still  disob&yed^  he  might  bring  them 
to  punishment  before  the  Judge  ;  whilst  the  latter 
eoiikl  pn^ish   them  himself.     This  is  the  only 
difference.     But  whatever   may  huve  been  tlie 
^neraJ  or  usual  destination  of  the  place  occupied 
-Uy  tkfendant,  the  Supreme  Court  c.innot  admit, 
that  it  was  on  that  particular  occasion  as  public 
as  the  Court.     Publicity  is  necessary  and  gene- 
rally prescribed  by  Law  in  judicial  uffiirs  ;   but 
this  is  evidently  by  no  meajis  the  case  with  medi- 
cal operations,  which   being  generally  fir   ifior* 
conveniently  conducted  in  private,  it,  was  fur  the 
diifen.Lint  and  him  alone  to  determine  who  should 
be    admitted   to    them.     The    locality   signifies 
nothing,  for  so   long  as  he  occupied  the  school 
room  by  permission  of  the  proper  authority,  he 
was  invested  with  all  the  rights  of  a  proprietor 
over  those  premises,  and  as  such  w.is  at  perfect 
liberty    to   remove    any  person  whatever  from 
them  whose  attendance  was  not  required  there. 
As  to  the  defendant's  tone  and  manner,  whilst  the 
Supreme  Court  perfectly  concurs   with  the  Dis- 
trict Court,  that  courtesies  are  perfectly  optional, 
it  cannot  but  add,   that  if  a  person  standing  in 
the  relation  of  life  that  plaintiff  did  to  defendant, 
refnaes  him  the  usual  courtesies,  he  can  soarcelv 
in  his  turn  expect  that    any    peculiar  civility  of 
deportment    will  be  exhibited   towards    himself. 
The  Court  therefore,  so  fav  from  considering  the 
defendant's  conduct  worthy  jf  censure,  (no  blow 
having  been  struck,  no  improper  huiguage  used.) 
conceives,  on    the'  contrary,    that    he    was  fully 
justilied  in  ordering  t,he>  plaintiff  to  quit  the  pre- 
mises, and  that  he  is   perfectly  exouseable  in  the 
naanner  in    which    he   did  it.      But   it  holds  tha 
whole  coaduGt  of  the  plaintiff  highly  censurable  ; 
60  much  so,  that  nothing  but  the  deference  it  en- 
tertains for  the  opinionaijd  jndgmeat  of  the  Dis- 
trict Court,   however,  oa  this  occasion,  ccmtrany 
to  its  own,  could  have  induced  it  to  coufineitself, 
as  it  now  does,,  to  the  dismissul  of   plaintiff's  ae- 
tiou.,— [No  6,76-2.  D.  C.  Tri/icornaUe,/J').' 


]f<.ss 


[     346     ] 


Thougli,  as 
»  general  rale 
deeds  of  thirty 
years  standing 
do  not  require 
proof;  yet  the 
rule  is  open 
to  exception 
Tvhenever  the 
deed  is  of  a 
BuspiciouB  na- 
ture. 


bS^.—Adam  Lehbe  v.  Hamado   Nachi'a 
Abdul  jRahim,    Intervenient. 

Tliis  was  an  appeal  by  the  defendant  against 
a  judgment  pronounced  by  the  Couit  below 
decreeing  certain  lands  to  the  plaintiff,  i  he 
judgment,  in  appeal,  (|)«-  JjaiEMiE  J.)  sets  out 
the  facts  : 

"  As  regards  mero  possession,  the  Snpretne 
Courtis  by  no  means  satis-^^fted  with  tlie  evidence, 
especially  that  for  the  phdntiff.  And  with  res- 
pect to  the  docnments,  the  District  Court  has 
fallen  into  an  error  in  stating  tlnit  hoth  the  deeds 
are  produced  by  the  plaintiff.  The  tecond  (B), 
the  original  grant,  the  authenticity  of  which 
cannot  be  disputed  by  either  party,  as  it  is  the 
original  title  under  which  they  lioth  claim,  was 
filed  by  the  defendant  on  the  17th  January  1867. 

"  Document  A  the  Su|  renie  Court  cannot  but 
consider  a  very  suspicious  one  ;  it  conveys  tlie 
whole  estate,  whilst  the  plaintiff  only  claims  half; 
then  it  would,  if  genuine,  have  been  accompa- 
nied by  the  transfer  of  possession  of  the  original 
grant,  which  would  in  that  case  have  been 
tiled  by  the  plaintiff,  as  the  District  Court  origi- 
nally supposed  it  had  been  ;  and  there  are  other 
circumstances  leading  to  the  same  conclusion 
set  forth  in  the  petition  of  ajipeal. 

"  Though  therefore,  deeds  of  thirty  year's 
standing  are,  when  accompanied  by  possession, 
to  be  generally  considered  as  not  requiring  proof, 
this  rule  is  open  to  exception  wherever  the  deed 
is  deemed  of  a  suspicious  nature.  In  such  cases 
the  best  proof  that  can  be  got  must  be  produced. 
For  instance,  when  the  writer  and  all  the  wit- 
nesses are  dead,  the  party  must  prove  them 
dead,  and  then  iirove  their  hand-writing,  or  the 
hand-writing  of  some  at  least  of  them.  On  these 
grounds  the  present  case  is  referred  back  for  proof 
by  the  plaintiff',  subject  to  the  counter-proof  by 
defendant,  of  the  authenticitv  of  the  said  deed 
Lr.  A."— [No.  2,98G„D.  C.  'Rmnwelle,  (J). 


i   5ii7    J 


isas 


587 — D.  Bona  Susana  Hanmj  and  an  other  v.  O. 

Scmchj  Hamy  widow  of  O.  Andris  Appoo  and 

others. 


Judgment.  That  the  decree  of  the  Court  below 
be  rerersed,  and  the  1st  plaintiff  declared  entitled 
to  one-fourth  of  th«  land  in  dispute,  which  she 
has  possessed  uninterruptedly  so  many  years. 
The  Eegulation  No.  8  of  1809  is  merely  declara- 
tory of  what  the  law  was  at  the  time  it  was 
passed ;  it  makes  no  alteration  or  new  law  ;  and 
the  Supreme  Court  has  in  former  cases  of  this 
nature,  favoured  alienations  of  such  lands  made 
before  the  passing  of  that  Regulation,  not  only 
because  the  very  necessity  which  existed  for  such 
a  declaration  shews  that  the  law,  as  it  stood, 
was  imperfectly  known,  but  because  under  the 
prior  enactment  of  Governor  North  such  lands 
were  considered  alienable  as  private  property. 
Possession  for  ten  years  subsequent  to  the  Re- 
gulation No.  8  of  1809,  could  not  certainly,  be 
considered  as  giving  a  prescriptive  title  to  the 
possessor,  under  the  Ordinance  regulating  the 
prescription  of  actions ;  but  the  long  enjoyment 
by  the  1st  plaintiff  and  her  mother,  of  the  above 
share  prior  to  the  said  Regulation  No.  8  of  1809, 
being  for  a  period  of  40  or  50  years,  raises  a 
presumption  in  law  of  an  old  grant  in  their  favour, 
which  is  confirmed  even  by  the  defendant's  own 
witnesses,  who  state  that  the  plaintiff's  mother  had 
been  given  a  portion  of  her  brother.  The  above 
decision  is  between  the  parties  in  this  suit  only, 
and  not  affecting  any  claim  of,  or  title  in  the  Go- 
vernment to  this  land.  D.  0.  Colombo,  S.  No. 
164,63.     (C.) 


588- 


Oetober  2.  (C.) 
-Sidowey  widow  of  Cadiren  and  her  son 


Alienation  of 
Service  Praveny 
lands  Effect  of 
Reg.  No.  8  of 
1809. 


Prescriptive 
Possession  of 
Service  parven^. 
land. 


Oadiren  Sidembery  v.  Bamer  Wayramottoe  and 
others. 

The  District  Court,  in  deciding  cases  upon  the 
pleadings  orexaminations  of  the  parties,  without 


Course  to  'je 
adopted  in  dc- 


1838 


[  2^8   ] 


ciding  cases 
upon  the  plead- 
ings and  ex- 
aminations of 
parties. 


Tlie  remedy 
against  any 
omission  or 
defect  in  the 
Judgment  of  a 
D.  C.  is  appeal 
to  the  S.  C. 
and  not  by  a 
fresh  action. 


examining  witnesses,  should  decide  only  on  the 
Law,  and  on  the  established  facts  then  clearly  ap- 
pearing in  the  proceedings  before  it,  either  by  the 
direct  admission  of  the  parties  or  under  docu- 
ments produced  by,  or  admitted  by  them  ;  but  the 
Court  ought  not  so  to  refuse  to  hear  evidence  iu 
support  of  allegations  by  parties  in  a  cause, 
merely  because  the  Court  itself  does  not  believe 
the  probability  of  the  alleged  facts  which  the 
jiarty  wishes  to  prove  :  provided  only  that  such 
facts  if  satisfactorily  proved,  would  be  relevant 
to  the  issue  in  the  suit,  or  any  matter  in  dispute 
therein  between  the  parties.  No.  3,046,  J).  G, 
Wellecjame,  (C.) 


Oijtober,  10    (J.  C.j 
589 — Sembate  v.  Coleiide. 

The  decree  of  the  Court  below,  which  was  in 
favour  of  the  defendant,  was  afSmied,  and  the 
proctor  for  the  plaintiff  disallowed  his  costs.  The 
action  which  was  to  set  aside  the  decree  in  a 
former  suit,  was  extremely  irregular,  as  any 
omission  in  the  proceedings  or  defect  of  decree  in 
the  former  Case,  should  have  been  rectified  by 
application  to  this  Court,  on  an  appeal  being  made 
to  it.     D.  0.  WadimorateJuj,  No.  1979,  (C.) 


590 — Jonldass  v.  Tuachiralle. 


Where  a  De- 
fendant has  ap- 
peared and 
answered,  lie 
cannot  after- 
■vvaj'ds  object  to 
the  jurisdic- 
tion. 


The  D.J.  can- 
not dismiss  a 
case  hy  a  mere 


It  has  been  decided  by  the  Supreme  Court 
collectively  in  former  Cases  that  where  a  defendant 
appears  and  answers  to  the  merits  of  a  case  with- 
out putting  in  a  plea  to  the  jurisdiction  any  ob- 
jection by  him  on  that  ground  must  be  then  con- 
sidered to  be  waived,  by  his  having  put  in  an 
appearance  and  answer  without  such  plea.  The 
District  Court  accordingly  will  retain  this  cause 
and  proceed  in  the  usual  manner  therein — Z>.  G. 
Colombo,  No.  3,  No.  3736,  (C.) 

591 — Oodoema  Lebbe  v.  Micyna  Nina. 

It  is  quite  clear  that  no  action  for  defamation 
could  be  maintained  on  this   libel.     The  words 


L  ^-ly  J 

spoken  are  not  in  tliemsclres  actionable  according 
to  the  English  Lnw  of  defamation,  unless  special 
damage  therefrom  were  laid  and  proved,  and  ac- 
cording to  the  Dutch  Civil  Law  also,  the  cir- 
cumstances alleged  could  not  support  the  action. 
The  endorsement,  however,  by  the  District  Judge 
upon  this  libel  of  his  opinion  only  of  the  grounds 
of  action,  is  certainly  an  informal  order  or  mode 
of  dismissal  of  the  action  on  the  pleadings — D.  G. 
Chilaiv  and  Piitlam  No. — (C.) 

October  17,  (J.  St.  C.) 

592 — In  re  William  Clarli  a  Bankrupt. 

Charles  Velligal,  Provisional  Assignee  Appellant, 

and 

William  Clark,  Bankrupt,  Appellant. 

Two  orders  of  the  District  Court  are  now 
before  the  Supreme  Court  in  Appeal;  the  first 
dated  25th  September  last,  and  the  second  the 
8th  Instant. 

With  reference  to  the  first,  by  which  the  Dis- 
trict Court  has  ordered  certain  letter  books  to 
be  forwarded  to  the  Court,  "  because  they  are  said 
to  contain  private  letters  which  can  be  of  no  use 
to  the  Provisional  Assignee  and  may,  if  the  con- 
tents be  known,  be  prejudicial  to  claims  now  in 
dispute,"  the  Supreme  Court  is  of  opinion  that 
this  is  a  very  insufficient  reason  for  withdraw- 
ing books  from  the  custody  of  the  Provisional 
Assignee  that,  on  the  contrary,  both  he  and  the 
bankrupt  should  long  since  have  had  the  fullest 
access  to  them,  and  that  the  bankrupt  should 
have  been  examined  upon  every  circumstance 
whatever  connected  with  his  estate,  which  requir- 
ed elucidation.  A  balance  sheet  should  have 
been  given  in  by  him  or  by  the  Provisional  As- 
signee, or  both,  and  every  explanation  offered 
with  respect  to  it.  That  the  Assignees  should 
also  have  long  since  been  named,  but  that  in  the 
mean  time  the  Provisional  Assignee  is  bound, 
under  the  superintendence  of  the  District  Court, 
to  take  every  measure  requisite  for  the  security 
and  preservation  of  the  estate,  and  for  the  ascer- 
tainment, of  its  actual  condition. 


1838 

eiiLlorsenuut  on 
the  libel,  al- 
thougli  such 
libel  discloses 
no  sufficient 
cause  of  action. 


1 .  The  cir- 
cumstance that 
the  letter  books 
are^said  to  con- 
tain private 
letters,  which 
may,  if  the 
contents  be 
knoMra,  be  pre- 
judicial to  cer- 
tain claims  in 
dispute,  is  no 
reason  for  with- 
drawing such 
boolcs  from  the 
custody  of  the 
ProvisonalAs- 
signee. 

2.  TheD.  C. 
is  never  re- 
quired to  take 
the  initiative 
in  any  act  con  - 
nected  with  the 
Bankruptcy. 

3.  A  Court 
may  issue  in- 
junctions to 
public  func- 
tionaries ;  but 
cannot  give 
them  instrue- 
tions  to  do  any 

act. 


18.38  [  250   ] 

Louldng  generally  to  the  proceedings,  as  they 
are  now  before  this  Court,  it  will  observe  that  a 
District  Court  is  never  required  to  take  the 
initiative  in  any  act  whatever  connected  with  the 
bankruptcy ;  its  duties  are  purely  of  superinten- 
dence and  control.  The  requisite  forms  should 
bo  gone  through  up  to  the  nomination  of  the 
Assignees  by  the  petitioning  creditor,  except  a 
Provisional  Assignee  be  named ;  in  which  case 
the  latter  takes  upon  himself,  so  long  as  his 
authority  endures,  the  management  of  all  the 
proceedings  prescribed  by  Law,  and  is  bound  to 
carry  them  through  within  the  shortest  reason- 
able time. 

As  regards  the  second  order  which  directs  that 
the  Post  Master  General  be  instructed  to  dehver 
to  the  said  Provisional  Assignee  all  letters  what- 
ever that  may  arrive  to  the  address  of  either 
William  Glarh  or  WJiite  ClarJc  &  Co.  the  Court 
will  observe  that  no  judicial  authority  has  a 
right  to  issue  instructions  to  the  administrative 
officers  of  a  Government.  Courts  may  in  cgrtain, 
cases  issue  injunctions  to  public  functionaries, 
as  well  as  others ;  but  instructions  are  out  of  the 
question. 

That  part  of  the  order  however,  vfhile  relates 
to  letters  for  Mr.  William  Olarh,  it  is  understood, 
has  been  alone  remonstrated  against  before  this 
Court.  The  Court  will  therefore  direct  its  atten- 
tion exclusively  to  it,  and  it  is  of  opinion  that 
all  such  letters  should  be  delivered  to  the  bank- 
rupt, against  whom  no  imputation  whatever  of  a 
fraud  has  been  thrown  out ;  and  he  if  they 
concern  his  estate  directly  or  indirectly,  is  bound 
to  give  them  over  to  the  Provisional  Assignee. 
The  latter  may  also  require  him  to  be  examined 
at  any  time  with  regard  to  the  nature,  and  (so 
far  as  may  be  necessary  towards  ascertaining 
whether  they  do  or  do  not  belong  to  the  estate) 
with  regard  to  the  contents  of  all  such  letters. 

The  order  dated  the  25th  September,  is  there- 
fore set  aside,  and  in  lieu  thereof  it  is  ordered 
that  the  said  books  remain  in  the  custody  of  the 
Provisional  Assignee,  but  that  the  banltrupt  be 
at  all  times  allo'wed  full  access  to  them,     And 


[  -'51    ] 


183S 


as  regards  the  order  dated  2iid  instant,  it  is 
hereby  declared  that  William  Glarh  is  entitled  in 
the  first  instance  to  receive  all  letters  whatever 
addressed  to  him.  No.  21,638,  D.  C.  Oolomho, 
No.  1.  S.  (J.) 


593 — John  Morris  v.  James  Garoll. 


The  decree  of  the  District  Court  of  Colombo 
No.  1.  S.  of  the  23rd  day  of  July  1838,  is  af- 
firmed as  to  the  amount  of  damages  awarded,  but 
the  plaintiff  is  decreed  to  recover  costs  only  in  the 
fifth  class,  and  to  pay  the  deft  all  surplus  costs 
incm-red  by  him  owing  to  this  suit  having  been 
brought  in  a  higher  class, — in  other  words,  the 
difference  between  defendant's  costs  in  the  fifth 
and  sixth  classes. 

The  test  by  which  the  question  of  costs  should 
be  tried,  as  a  general  principle,  is  whether  the 
plaintiff  was  justified,  by  the  whole  result  of  the 
suit,  in  bringing  his  action  in  the  higher  class. 
If  the  plaintiff  materially  fails  to  prove  that  his 
loss  amoiints  to  the  extent  claimed  by  him,  he 
will  be  deservedly  made  to  pay  the  whole  extra 
costs  occasioned  by  his  having  thus  wrongfully 
brought  this  suit  in  such  a  high  class.  In  the 
present  suit  looking  to  the  amount  of  damages 
awarded  (£  18) ;  and  that  there  is  evidence  of 
farrier's  expenses  also  incurred,  the  Court  is  of 
opinion  that  the  suit  would  not  improperly  have 
been  brought  in  the  fifth  class,  and  that  the  costs 
shoidd  therefore  be  awarded  between  the  parties 
accordingly. 

It  would  be  neither  fair  to  the  suitors  nor  proc- 
tors to  reduce  this  case  to  a  lower  class ;  for, 
though  it  be  true  that  the  Court  looks  to  the 
amount  of  damages  actually  decreed  to  be  re- 
covered, as  an  important  criterion  to  guide  it  in 
awarding  the  costs,  yet  it  is  not  conclusive  there- 
in, as  the  Court  will,  in  considering  costs,  always 
look  to  the  whole  merits  of  the  case,  and  the 
conduct  of  the  parties ;  and  judge  also  whether 
there_  were  reasonable  grounds  for  the  plaintiff 
bringing  his  action  in  the  class  which  he  did ;  nor 


Tbougli  tlie 
amount  of 
damages  ulti- 
mately decreed 
is  an  impor- 
taut  criterion 
in  awarding 
cost ;  yet  the 
Court  ■will  al- 
ways look  to 
the  whole  merits 
of  the  case  and 
the  couduct  of 
thepartiesinde- 
terminingwhether 
the  costs  should 
be  in  the  ori- 
ginal class  or 
in  that  of  the 
amount  of  the 
Judgment. 


1838 


[  252 


An  adminis- 
trator is  at 
liberty  to  alie- 
nate or  or 
encumber  the 
whole  estate 
entrusted  to 
him. 


A  party  who 
has  consented  to 
a  reference  to  Ar- 
liiration,  cannot 
artcrwarcis  dis- 
sent from  the  de- 
cision, merely, 
because  it  is 
against  him. 

It  is  regular 
for  ]).  J,  to  sit  as 
an  Arbitrator. 


will  it  refuse  to  make  a  just  allowance  for  that  fair 
latitude  and  exercise  of  sound  discretion  ■wliicli 
an  honest  suitor,  and  a  prudent  counsel,  might 
be  expected  to  use  in  estimating  the  probable 
damages  which  might  reasonably  be  given  on  the 
cause  of  action.— No.  20,079,"  D.  C.  CoJomlo, 
No.  1.  S.  (C.) 

October  24,  (J.  St.  C.) 
594 — Philip  Briton  v.  Bastian  Moel;oeiaa. 

The  Supreme  Court  having  coUectirely  con- 
sidered the  proceedings  in  this  cause,  is  of  opinion 
that,  by  the  settled  practice,  an  Administrator  is 
at  liberty  to  alienate,  and  consequently  to  encum- 
ber the  whole  of  the  estate  entrusted  to  him. 
The  remedy  of  the  right  heirs  to  the  deceased 
for  malversation  is  against  the  Administrator  and 
his  securities,  except  in  cases  of  collusion. 

That  the  system  of  administration  requires  to 
be  revised  in  this  particular,  there  can  ,be  no 
doubt ;  but  sitting  judicially,  the  Com-t  cannot 
deviate  from  a  practice  so  thoroughly  established. 
D.  C.  Chilaw  and  Putlam  No.  4416,  (J.) 

October  31,  (J.  St.  C.) 
595 — Bayma  Lehbe  v.  Wava  Lehhe. 

When  parties  agree  to  be  bound  by  any  form 
of  Arbitration,  neither  can  afterwards  dissent  from 
the  decision,  only  because  it  happens  to  be  made 
against  himself.  The  Supreme  Court  cannot, 
however,  refrain  from  observing  that  the  District 
Court  sitting  on  an  Arbitration  with  seven  As- 
sessors was  a  most  irregular  proceeding  B.  C 
Colomho,  No.  S.  No.  20941  (,C.). 


PT" 


596- 


[  -^53   ] 

Jannavy  8  (J. 
-Oiiiial  and  other  v. 


1839 


St.  C.) 

Taniar  and  others. 


Whatc^-cr  may  be  the  real  merits  of  this  case,        Any  objec- 
the  conduct  of   the   defendants   in   their  delays    f;'""  '°  ™° '" 
and  frivolous  objections  to   the  progress  of  the    sIuXTade 
suit,  is  very  blameable.     Any  opposition  which    on    the    first 
the  defendants  had  to  offer  against  the  plaintiff    appearance, 
being  allowed  to  sue  in  forma  pauperis  on  ac- 
count of  her  pecuniary  cireumstances,  should  have 
been   made   on   their   first   appearance,  and  now 
comes  too  late.     To  allow  such  objections  to  be 
taken  in  succession   upon  failure  of  a  previous 
appeal  respecting  the  Proctors  report,  would  be 
to  contravene  the  rule  requiring  it  to   be  made 
upon  the  appearance  of  the  defendants,  and  to 
sanction  litigious  procrastination   in   the  subse- 
quent proceeding  in  forma  pauperis.     No  satis- 
factory   reason   is    even   urged    in   the   present 
instance  for  the  delay,   and  the   Supreme  Court 
observes  with  marked  disapprobation  that  the  un- 
necessarily long  Petition  of  Appeal  of  the  defen- 
dants is  drawn  by  the  same  Proctor  who  made  a 
wrong  report  in   the  plaintiff's  case,  and   he  is 
accordingly  disallowed  his  costs,  thereon  the  in- 
terlocutory order  of  the  Court  below  is  afirnied. — 
[No.  3861,]  D.  G.  Walligama,  (C.)] 


A  parol  ad- 
mission is  s\x{- 
ficient  under 
the  proviso  in 
the  7th  clause 
oftheprescrip- 
tionOrdinance. 


597 — Achland  Boyd  d  Co.  v.  Awadoe  Lebhe. 

The  decree  of  the  Court  below  is  afftrmed,  the 
majority  of  the  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court 
having,  upon  the  point  being  referred  for  their 
collective  opinion,  decided  that  a  parol  admission 
within  the  time  limited  for  bringing  the  action, 
by  the  Ordinance  No.  8  of  1834,  is  sufficient, 
under  the  proviso  in  the  7th  clause  thereof,  to 
prevent  the  claim  being  barred  by  the  plea  of 
Prescription.— [No.  8976,]  B.  C  Kandij,  (C.) 

January,  16,  (St.  C.) 

598— if.  A.  Marshall  v.  David  Perera. 

T.    .      ,.  1     ,        ,  ■  ■     1  1      1         Landlord  and 

It  IS  directed  that  this  case  be  required  back,    Tenant, 


1839 


[  254  ] 


A  receipt  not 
under  seal,  is 
not  conclusive 

against  the 
party  giving 
it,  but  only  a 
primd  facie  evi- 
dence, which 
may  be  contra- 
dicted by  parol. 


If  a  Land- 
lord give  re- 
ceipt for  the 
rent  last  due, 
it  is  to  be  pre- 
sumed that  the 
former  rent  has 
been  paid. 


in  order  that  evidence  may  be  taken  on  both  sides 
as  to  the  payment  of  the  second  quarter's  rent  in 
dispute.  In  general  a  receipt  not  under  seal,  is 
not  conclusive  against  the  party  giving  it,  but 
only  a  prima  facie  acknowledgment  that  the 
money  had  been  paid ;  and  parol  evidence  may  be 
properly  admitted  to  shew,  that,  the  giving  of 
the  receipt,  was  a  fraudulent  transaction,  or,  that 
the  money  was  not  paid  {STcaife  v.  Jackson,  3 
B.  &  C,  421 ;  and  5  B.  &  A.  c.  11.)  In  the 
present  case  it  must  be  noticed  that  the  second 
quarters  rent  not  being  due  till  June,  it  would 
not  probably  be  paid  in  advance  on  the  11th  April 
1837,  and  still  less  without  any  express  receipt 
for  it  in  similar  form  as  has  been  given  for  the 
first  and  third  quarters'  payments.  Mr.  Marshall, 
moreover  on  a  question  from  this  Court  states, 
that  the  11th  April  1837,  is  the  date  of  pay- 
ment of  the  first  quarter's  rent,  and  in  his  own 
own  hand  writing ;  but  he  denies  that  the  "  35 
rixdollars,"  immediately  following  the  above  date, 
w.ts  ever  written  by  him,  and  charges,  the  defen- 
dant with  inserting  it.  The  above  circumstances 
of  suspicion  and  frand  in  this  case  certainly  requu-e 
strict  investigation  by  examining  the  parties  and 
taking  evidence. 

Though  the  District  Court  has  been  in  error 
in  considering  the  plaintiff  estopped  by  his  re- 
ceipts on  the  margin  of  the  lease ;  yet,  it  is  a 
rule  of  evidence,  that,  if  a  Landlord  give  a  re- 
ceipt for  the  rent  last  due,  it  is  to  be  presumed 
in  Law,  therefrom,  that  the  former  rent  has  been 
paid ;  and  the  last  receipt  having  been,  in  their 
this  case,  given  expressly  for  the  third  quarter 
ending  30th  September,  the  onus  lies  on  the 
plaintiff  to  prove  by  satisfactory  evidence,  that 
the  June,  or  previous  quarter's  rent,  was  not  paid, 
and  to  rebut,  the  above  presumption  in  Law  in 
favour  of  the  defendant.  In  case  the  plaintiff 
should  fail  to  do  so,  he  would  only  be  entitled  in 
this  action  to  recover  the  fourth  quarter's  rent, 
which  is  admitted  by  the  defendant  to  be  still 
due,  and  owing  to  him.— [No.  21,339,  J).  G. 
Colombo,  No.  (C.) 


C  255  ] 

599 — Miii-iu  Porera  and  anotlier  v.  Diogoe  Fer- 
nando. 

It  is  a  well  established  principle  of  Equity,  that, 
where  a  surety  discharges  the  debt  of  his  princi- 
pal, he  is  entitled  to  stand  in  the  place  of  the 
treditor,  as  to  all  securities  for  the  debt ;  and  to 
have  any  benefit  therefrom,  and  remedy,  which 
the  creditor  had  against  the  principal  debtor.  In 
the  present  case  the  defendant  has  retained  the 
securities  in  his  own  possession  upon  paying  off 
the  debt,  and  the  only  main  question  is  with  whose 
money  the  creditor  was  paid. 

It  has  not  been  the  practice  in  this  Colony,  for 
a  surety,  on  paying  off  the  debt  of  the  principal, 
to  obtain  "  cession  of  action"  from  the  creditor, 
and  this  Court  has  in  a  Jaffna  appeal.  No.  3193, 
dated  7th  December  1834,  decided  that  it  was 
not  necessary  for  such  cession  to  be  made  at  the 
time  of  payment,  but  that  the  surety  might  sub- 
sequently obtain  it,  even  pending  the  suit  against 
the  principal  debtor.  If  the  defendant  has  not, 
therefore,  already  clothed  himself  with  this  ex- 
press authority,  he  ought  to  obtain  it  now  from 
the  creditor.— [JVo.  3787.  D.  0.  Colomlo.  (C.) 

600 — Perera  v.  Plntappoo. 

The  Eegulation  No.  8  of  1809  is  merely 
declaratory  of  what  the  Law  was  at  the  time  it 
was  passed, — it  makes  no  alteration  or  new  Law  ; 
and  the  Supreme  Court  has  in  former  cases  of 
this  nature  favoured  alienations  of  such  lands 
made  before  the  passing  of  that  Regulation,  not 
only  because  the  very  necessity  which  existed  for 
such  a  declaration  shews  that  the  Law  as  it  stood 
was  imperfectly  known,  but  because,  under  the 
prior  enactment  of  Governor  North,  such  lands 
were  considered  alienable  as  private  property. 
Possession  for  ten  years  subsequent  to  the  Ee- 
gulation No.  8  of  1809,  could  not  certainly  be 
considered  as  gi\'ing  a  prescriptive  title  to  the 
possessor,  under  the  Ordinance  regulating  the 
prescription  of  actions  ;  but  the  long  enjoyment 
of  the  share  possessed  by  the  defendants  and  their 
parents  since  their  mother's  marriage,  appears  to 
have  been  prior  to  the  said  Regulation   No.  8  of 


1839 

Debtor  and 
SuREir. 

A  Surety 
paying  the 
debt,  is  entitled 
to  stand  in  the 
place  of  the 
creditor. 


The  Cession 
need  not  be 
made  at  the 
time  of  pay- 
ment. 


Alienation  of 
Sen'ice  Pai- 
veny  lands. 

Effect  of  Keg. 
No.  8  of  1809, 


Prescriptive 
possession  of 
service  Parv- 
eny  lauds. 


1839 


[  256  ] 


The  admission 
of  one  Co-De- 
fendant does 
not  bind  ano- 
ther, if  they 
put  in  separate 
answers. 


1809,  being  for  a  period  of  between  30  and  40 
years,  which  raises  a  presumption  in  Law  of  an 
old  grant  in  their  favour.  The  plaintiffs  therefore, 
after  such  uninterrupted  long  enjoyment  of  this 
share  by  the  defendants  and  their  parents  for  so 
many  years,  cannot  support  this  claim  to  take  it 
away  from  them  upon  the  simple  proof  of  the  land 
being  service  parveny,  and  of  their  being  male  heirs 
to  Juan,  who  transferred  it  to  his  daughter  on  her 
marriage.  No  satisfactory  reason  is  given  for  the 
plaintiffs'  delay  in  instituting  their  present  claim, 
and  this  Court  always  discountenances  stale  de- 
mands, when  by  the  death  of  parties  and  wit- 
nesses, the  real  fact  in  issue  cannot  be  so  clearly 
known  and  proved. — [_No.  3400,  D.  JJ.  Colmnbo 
(C.) 

GOl — Siman  Gomes  v.  Oahriel  Pulle  and   another. 

In  the  present  stage  of  the  suit  the  plaintiff  is 
only  entitled  to  Judgment  against  the  first  defen- 
dant for  50  Rix  dollars,  being  the  value  of  the 
pair  of  bullocks,  as  admitted  in  the  answer  to- 
gether with  the  cost  of  suit :  the  first  defendant 
having  admitted  in  his  answer  that  the  bullocks 
belonged  to  the  plaintiff,  and  that  he  had  sold 
them  for  50  Rix  dollars.  If  the  bullocks  were 
really  of  a  higher  value  or  worth  65  Rix  dollars, 
as  alleged  in  the  libel,  the  plaintiff  must,  to  re- 
cover their  full  value,  prove  the  same, — it  not 
being  admitted  by  the  defendants. 

As  regards  the  second  defendant,  the  admission 
of  one  co-defendant  does  not  bind  another,  if  they 
put  in  separate  answers ;  and  Judgment  can  only 
be  given  against  the  second  defendant  who  denies 
the  plaintiff's  libel,  after  taking  evidence.  The 
case  is  accordingly  referred  back  to  the  District 
Court,  with  liberty  to  the  plaintiff  to  proceed  to 
evidence  against  the  first  defendant  as  to  the  full 
value  of  the  bullocks,  or  against  the  second  de- 
fendant generally.  The  costs  of  appeal  of  the 
second  defendant  must  be  paid  by  the  plaintiff. — 
[No.  14,978,  D.  C.  Colmnbo,  (C.) 

602. — Abmham  Appoo  v.  Andris  Aponso. 

It  is  ordered  that  this   case  be  referred  back 


[  257 


1  )S;i9 


to  the  District  Court  to  allow  the  plaintiff  to 
summon  the  Notary  and  attesting  witnesses  to 
prove  his  deed  of  sale,  and  to  decide  the  case  upon 
the  evidence  to  be  adduced  on  both  sides.  As 
the  plaintiff  named  the  Notary  and  attesting 
witnesses  in  his  first  List,  and  they  appear  to,  have 
been  summoned  on  the  4th  September,  and  on 
the  Intervenients  putting  in  their  claim  on  the 
6th  September  they  were  not  named  in  the  second 
list  of  witnesses  filed  by  the  plaintiff.  The 
Supreme  Court  is  inclined  to  give  credit  to  the 
plaintiff's  stoiy,  that  he  thought  the  evidence,  to 
disprove  the  right  of  the  Intervenients,  was  alone 
to  be  gone  into  ;  and  that  it  was  not  necessEtiy 
for  him  thereon  to  first  substantiate  his  own  title. 
There  are  few  rules  also  less  generally  understood 
than  that  the  plaintiff  in  ejectment  must  stand 
upon  the  strength  of  his  own  title,  and  not  on  the 
wealmess  of  the  defendant's.  And  to  show  that 
the  error  of  the  plaintiff"  in  this  instance  arose 
purely  from  ignorance,  it  may  be  further  observed 
that  he  made  no  application  for  any  postpone- 
ment on  account  of  the  absence  of  a  material 
witness,  nor  does  his  previous  conduct  appear  to 
have  been  dilatory ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  if 
the  plaintiff's  deed  of  sale  be  a  true  one,  the  de- 
fendant is  guilty  of  fraud.  Under  such  circums- 
tances, this  Court  will,  in  favour  of  a  plaintiff 
erring  only  thi'ough  ignorance,  and  contesting  his 
claim  against  prima  facie  fraudulent  parties,  shew 
the  above  indulgence  ;  but  the  plaintiff  must  pay 
the  costs  of  this  appeal,  as  well  as  the  expenses 
occasioned  by  the  attendance  of  defendant's  and 
Intervenients'  witnesses  on  the  day  of  trial  in  the 
District  Court, — in  the  same  manner  as  if  the 
case  had  been  postponed  on  his  application, 
owing  to  the  absence  of  material  witnesses  : — 
[No.  14,326,  D.  C.  Colombo,  S.  (C.) 


Where  the 
plaintiff  h.'is 
manifestly  pr'  - 
ceeded  in  ig- 
norance, the  S. 
C.  ■will  allow  a 
new  trial. 


February  16,   (St.  C.) 

603 — Amis  and  another  v.  Emanis. 
The  record  of  conviction  in  a  criminal  prosecu- 
tion for  assault  is  not  admissible.     Evidence,   in 
an  action  for  damages,  by  the  complainants  for 


The  Record 
of  a  convic- 
tion in  a  cri- 
minal prosecu- 


i8n9 


[sris 


tion  for  As- 
sault, is  not 
admissible  in  a 
civil  action  for 
the  same  as- 
sault. 

The  sur- 
geon's receipt 
is  not  by  itself 
evidence  of  his 
attendance. 


An  applica- 
tion to  amend 
a  written  de- 
cree after  a 
lapse  of  two 
months,  dis- 
allowed. 


Seconday  evi- 
danceofaDeed, 
when  admissi- 
ble. 

Qii  ?  as  to  the 
custom  of  Saf- 
fragam  respect- 
ing a  Beena 
husband's  right 
to  succeed  to 
wife's  property. 


the  same  assault,   as  the  verdict  being  in  part 
procured  on  the  evidence  of  the  complainants,  it 
would  be  indirectly  to  admit  their  testimony  in  their 
own  cause.     Boscoe  on  Evid.  p.  102.  Indeed,  it 
has  been  rejected  even  on  the  plea  of  guilty,  2 
Phil,  on  Evld.  203,  Ed  :  7.    The  only    evidence 
of  the  Surgeon's  attendance  and  charge  is  his  Bill 
and  receipt,  which  is  not  admitted  by  the  defen- 
dants, (who  has  filed  a  general  denial),  nor  prov- 
ed ;  and  the  evidence  of  the  Secretary  by  itself 
is  clearly  insufficient  to  support  plaintiff's  claim. 
~[No.  3366.  D.  C.  Colombo,  (C.) 
•    604— Juan  Sameretue  v.  Asso  and  others. 
This   was   an    application   by     a   Proctor  to 
amend  a  written  decree  of  the   Court  below.  Per 
Cabr  J. — "  It  was  the  duty  of  the  Proctor  for 
the  plaintiff  to  have  seen  whether  the  decree  was 
correctly  drawn  out,  in  order  to  have  appealed 
therefrom  within  the  time  limited,  if  the  interest 
of  his  client  required  it.     This  Court    will  not 
after  the  lapse  of  two  months  attend  to  an  ap- 
plication to  amend   a  written    decree,  upon  the 
vague  recollection  of  a   Proctor  of  what  he  un- 
derstood  the  decree  as  to  be  pronounced.     The 
plaintifTs  Proctor  has  clearly  in  this  case  neglect- 
ed his  duty  to  his  client,  who  is  not  to  suffer 
therefrom,  and  he  his  accordingly  disallowed  Ins 
costs  in  this  case".   INo.  2705,  D.  G.  2Iati(ra,  (C.) 

60b—J)inegame  and  another  v.  Lolcoo  Ettena 
and  others. 

Before  the  secondary  proof  can  be.  admissible  of 
the  contents  of  a  Deed,  the  Court  should  have 
satisfactory  proof  upon  oath  if  its  having  been 
surreptitiously  taken  by  defendants  (who  plead 
that  it  never  was  made  ;)  or  else  of  the  loss 
thereof,  and  that  due  diligence  had  been  made  in 
searching  for  the  same.  The  vague  recollection 
of  the  District  Judge  or  Secretary,  not  on  oath, 
that  an  application  was  made  about  the  loss  of 
such  a  Deed  by  plaintiffs,  will  not  supply  such 
omission.  In  default  of  such  proof  to  support 
this    alleged  Transfer   by   Deed,   the  custom  of 


[  ^-'l'  ] 


ISM 


Safi'agam  as  to  the  right  of  surviving  liusbaiid 
to' inherit  the  landed  property  of  his  deceased 
wife,  by  Beena  marriage,  should  be  ascertained, 
Boloswelle  Dessawe,  and  the  other  Chiefs,  appear- 
ing to  have  expressed  opposite  opinions  thereon 
as  stated  in  Mr.  Sawyer's  Digest.  The  adoption 
of  the  second  plaintiff  would  also  probably  vary 
that  right  in  the  present  ease.— [JVb.  1643,  B.  C. 
Colonibo.  (C.) 
606— J.  W-  Husldsson  y.  Walker  and  another. 

Though  the  first  defendant  is  alone  charged 
■with  writing  the  letter  of  the  16th  day  of  June 
1837,  yet  both  the  defendants  are  charged  ex- 
pressly with  having  addressed  the  letter  of  the 
18th  day  of  June  1837  to  the  plaiiitiff ;  and  also 
in  pursuance  of  their  design,  to  injure  the  jolain- 
tiff's  honour,  of  having  caused  copies  of  the  al- 
leged Kbellous  Letters  to  be  made  and  published, 
and  of  having  moreover  spoken  scandalous  and 
defamatory  words  against  the  plaintiff.  If  the 
second  defendant  has  been  in  any  way  concern- 
ed with  the  first  defendant  in  advising,  dictating, 
writing,  delivering  or  publishing  such  letters,  or 
copies  thereof,  (which  is  not  denied,)  he  his  pro- 
perly made  a  co-defendant  in  this  action ;  and 
where  two  or  more  persons  conspire  unlawfully 
to  injure  another,  all  the  acts  of  one,  in  further- 
ance of  the  common  design,  may  be  given  in 
evidence  against  the  other. 

The  Libel  in  this  case  however  is  very  care- 
lessly drawn.  It  should  have  commenced  with 
an  express  charge  against  both  defendants,  of 
combining  and  confederating  together  for  the 
unlawful  purpose  alleged,  and  it  should  more 
explicitly  set  forth  when,  where,  and  to  whom 
copies  were  read  and  published,  and  what  were 
"  divers"  libellous  word  or  expressions  used ;  and 
when,  where,  and  to  whom  uttered ;  otherwise 
the  defendants  can  never  be  prepared  to  answer 
these  latter  charges,  or  ha^e  notice  to  what  cir- 
cumstances they  would  have  to  call  their  evidence 
to  rebut  that  adduced  by  the  plaintiff.— [JVb. 
7285,  D.  G.  Trincomalle.  (C.) 


Action  for 
Defamation. 

Wliere  two 
or  more  per- 
sons conspire 
unlawfully  to 
injiue  another, 
all  the  acts  of 
one  in  fiirther- 
ance  of  thecom- 
mon  design, 
may  be  given 
in  evidence 
against  the 
other. 


Form  of  libel 
in  such  a  case. 


1839 


C  ^co  ] 


Admissions 
in  an  answer 
do  not  operate 
as  an  estoppel 
except  in  cer- 
tain cases ;  and 
may  be  ex- 
plained by  evi- 
dence. 


Bights  of 
claimants  to 
property  seized 
in  execution. 


February  27,  (C.) 

C07 — Silra  and  anotlier  v.  Dissa  and  another. 
The  defendants  should  not  be  concluded,  or 
estopped  by  their  admission  in  their  Answer  re- 
ferred to,  as  the  plaintiffs  cannot  be  considered 
to  have  been  induced  by  it  to  alter  their  condi- 
tion ;  nor  was  the  fact  in  dispute  between  the 
parties  to  this  case,  or  any  decree  made  against 
the  defendants  on  the  points  in  that  former  suit. 
The  general  rule  as  to  third  persons,  is,  that  a 
party  is  not  bound  by,  or  estopped  by  such  ad- 
missions, but  is  at  liberty  to  prove  that  the  same 
were  mistaken  or  untrue.  The  defendants  might 
possibly  be  able  to  prove  that  they  were  misled 
by  fraud,  mistake,  or  ignorance  of  facts  to  make 
such  admission,  and  prove' by  general  evidence 
their  title.  Though  the  defendants  be  not  es- 
topped or  concluded,  the  admission  is  strong  evi- 
dence however  for  the  plaintiffs,  and  will  require 
very  satisfactory  proof  to  rebut  it. — [^No.  2503, 
v.  G-  Arriblangodde.  (C) 

608.—  Naina  Lebhe  v.  Code  Moopo. 

The  6th  clause  of  the  Regulation  No.  13  of 
1827  declares,  that,  where  property  seized  under 
execution  is  claimed  by  third  parties,  the  Court 
shall  call  the  several  parties  to  establish  their 
respective  claims ;  and  the  constant  practice  has 
been  for  the  claimants,  upon  giving  security,  to 
institute  proceedings  to  try  the  respective  right. 
The  defendant  in  the  present  suit  has  never 
abandoned  his  claim  to  the  property  in  dispute, 
which  must  be  considered  constructively,  as  be- 
ing still  seized,-  the  re-possession  being  only 
granted  to  the  plaintiff  conditionally,  upon  the 
security  given.  The  defendant  moreover  should 
in  the  first  instance  have  been  called  upon  to 
prove  his  title,  the  regulation  declaring  that 
the  possessor  is  to  be,  prima  facie,  considered 
as  the  owner.  [JVb.  2339,  D.  G.  Golombo.  (C) 

March  6,  (C.) 

609—Poiisiaiio  Siman  v.  Mrs.  8.  P.  de  Breard. 

Where   a  mortgage  Bond  was  executed  on  a 


[  -'«1  J 

Sunday,  and  not  numbered,  nor  duplicate  copy 
therof  filed  in  the  District  Cdurt,  Jidd,  that  these 
were  no  grounds  to  declare  the  instrument,  upon 
this  plea  invalid.  The  -ith  and  6th  clauses  of  (he 
Ord.  No.  7  of  1834  certainly  require  this  Deed 
to  be  executed  in  duplicate,  and  the  duplicate 
copy  to  be  filed,  under  a  penalty  upon  the  Notary  ; 
hut  they  do  not  declare  the  instrument  invalid  in  de- 
fault thereof,  otherwise,  proof  of  the  duplicate  hav- 
ing been  executed  and  duly  transmitted,  must  be 
always  adduced,  similar  to  evidence  of  enrollment  of 
bargain  and  sales  &c,  required  by  the  Statute  to 
render  such  deeds  admissible. 

The  above  facts  are  however  strong  circumstan- 
ces of  fraud,  which,  if  unexplained  by  evidence 
at  the  trial,  must  be  considered  as  tending  to 
throw  discredit  on  the  instrument,  though  the 
plaintiff  must  not  he  estopped  thereby  from  proving, 
if  he  can,  the  due  execution  of  the  Bond  by  the 
attesting  witnesses. — [N'o.  5036,   D.  C.  Culomho. 

CC). 

March  20,  (J.) 
610 — 2Iadache  v.  MarJcar. 

In  this  case  the  plaintiff  originally  alleged  that 
the  property  in  dispute  was  the  nwdioiom,  or  here- 
ditary property  ;  but  this  (as  is  admitted  by  the 
District  Court)  she  has  not  proved.  On  the 
contrary  it  appears  from  the  testimony  of  the 
majority  of  her  witnesses  that  these  were  acquired 
by  herself  and  by  her  husband  since  the  marriage, 
and  therefore  it  falls  into  the  community.  That 
the  husband  is  the  sole  administrator  of  the  com- 
mon property,  and  is  at  liberty  to  encumber  it  at 
his  pleasure,  during  coverture,  is  a  well  establish- 
ed principle.  Had  this  property,  indeed,  been 
parveny  or  hereditary,  it  might  have  been  advisa- 
ble to  have  ascertained  whether  there  is  any  local 
custom  at  Batticaloa  which  secures  such  property 
to  the  wife,  when  there  is  no  marriage  contract ; 
but  under  the  circumstances  the  enquiry  is  un- 
necessary.—[A^'o.  3473,   v.  0.  Batticaloa.  (J.) 

611 — Parpadian  v.  Coeamaroe,  and  another. 

The  defendants,  in    this  case,   obtained  writs  of 


i8;in 


Execution 
of  a  Deed  oii 
a  Sunday,  and 
the  failure  to 
number  and  to 
file  the  dupli- 
cate  copy  of  .1, 
Bond  do  not 
render  the  in- 
strument in- 
valid. 


In  Batticaloa, 
property  ac- 
quired during 
coverture  come  i 
into  commu- 
nity, and  is 
under  the  sole 
controul  of  the 
Husband. 


1839  [    262    ] 


Proof  of. 


Xo  publica-    of  execution  in   a  former  suit,    and   caused  the 
tion    of  sale,    plaintiff's   property   to  be  sold  under   it.      The 
present   action  was  brought  to  recover  tne  pro- 
perty sold  in  execution  from  the  defendants  ;  and 
Per  Jeeemib  J. — The  question  more  immediately 
before  the  Supreme  Court  is  simply  whether  the 
sale  of  plaintiff's  lands,   was  actually  published. 
Eight  persons,  all  neighbours,  including  the  two 
Police  Vidhans,  the   Notary,  and  the   tom-tom 
beater,  who  should  have  published  the  sale,  all 
distinctly  swear,  that  to  the  best  of  their  know- 
ledge and  belief  there  was  no  publication.     They 
swear  to  it  as  distinctly  as  a  negative  can  be 
sworn  to.     It  is  said  that  some  of  these  witnesses 
are  not  entirely  above  suspicion,  principally  from 
their  being  relatives,  which  is  no  doubt  true ;  nor, 
in  cases  of  this  nature,  can  it  ever  be  othenrise : 
but  surely  in  the  very  populous  neighbourhood  of 
Copaij,  some   respectable   witnesses   might  have 
been  called,  who  had  heard  the  publication,  or  seen 
the  notices  affixed.     One  single  witness  deposes 
to  these  facts  and  he,  as  proved  by  the  record  at- 
tached to  the  Petition  of  Appeal,  is  convicted  of 
prevarication.     The  decree  of  the  Court  below  is 
in  consequence  reversed,  and  as  it    appears   that 
the  amount  of  the  original  debt  and  costs  is  depo- 
sited in  the  District  Court,  it  is  ordered  that  the 
plaintiff  be  forthwith  reinstated  in  the  property 
now  in  dispute,  and  she  is  hereby  quieted  in  the 
possession  of  the  same  as  fully  and  effectually  to 
all  intents  and  purposes  whatever,  as  if  no   sale 
thereof  imder  the  writ  of  execution  No.  1676,  had 
ever  taken  place. 

It  is  not  an  immaterial  circumstance  that  the 
present  action  was  entered  within  twice  twenty 
four  hours  after  the  sale. — [No.  2136,  D.  C.  Jaffna. 
(J.) 

March  27,  (J.) 

612 — Corndis'Fonseka  and  another  v.  BonAadiis 

and  another. 

This  in  an  action  de  condlctione  indehiti,  or  for 
the  restitution  of  money  actually  paid  ;  the  whole 


[  263  ] 


1839 


proof  falls  therefore  on  the  plaintiffs,  for  their  own 
admissions  make  out  the  defendant's  case.  The 
defendants  are  Cinnamon-planters;  the  plain- 
tiffs apparently  Native  Merchants.  The  transac- 
tion took  place  in  September  1837,  when  the  goods 
were,  as  is  sworn  to,  examined,  tested,  weighed, 
delivered,  and  paid  for; — and  that  they  were 
actually  delivered  and  paid  for  is  admitted  by  the 
plaintiffs.  But  they  say  that  this  sale  was  condi- 
tional. If  oral  testimony  of  so  unusual  and  impro- 
bable an  engagement,  as  a  covenant  of  warranty 
for  merchandize  of  this  description,  be  admissible 
at  all,  it  is  perfectly  clear  that  nothing  but  the 
most  convincing  proof  could  induce  the  Court  to 
credit  it ;  and  here  the  evidence  is  not  only  very 
contradictory,  but  in  many  other  respects  doubtful, 
whilst  the  witness  most  worthy  of  belief  produced 
by  plaintiffs,  rather  uphold  the  defendant's  than 
the  plaintiff's  case.  The  decree  is  therefore  rever- 
sed, and  plaintiff's  action  dismissed  without  costs. 
[No.  19,372,  D.  G.  Colombo.  S-  (J.) 

April  17,  (J.  C.) 

613 — Tikiercude  v.  Kiri/  Menieka, 

The  object  of  the  Proclamation  against  forcible 
dispossession,  was  to  prevent  violence  and  breach- 
es of  the  peace,  and  to  compel  parties  disputing 
to  have  recourse  to  a  civil  suit  to  settle  their 
respective  claims,  instead  of  taking  the  Law  into 
then-  own  hands.  All  that  the  District  Court 
ought  to  enquire  into  upon  the  criminal  proceed- 
ings is,  whether  there  has  been  a  forcible  eject- 
ment of  a  party  quietly  in  possession;  it  never 
investigates  into,  or  can  finally  decide  upon,  the 
respective  titles  of  the  parties,  but  leaves  the 
claimant  to  his  civil  action  of  Ejectment.  For 
instance  if  A  and  his  brother  were  joint  proprie- 
tors of  a  field,  and  A  bequeathed  or  sold  his 
undivided  moiety  to  B,  but  the  brother  retained 
exclusive  possession  of  the  whole  field ;  if  B  ford- 
lly  ejected  him  from  the  half,  he  would  be  pun- 
ishable under  the  Proclamation,  though  he  has  a 
better  title  to  it,  and,  by  a  civil  action,  would 
be  put  in  possession  thereof. 


Action    for 
the  restitution 
of  money  actu- 
ally paid. 
Evidence. 


Proclamation 
of  5th  August 
1819  against 
forcible  entry, 
considered. 


1839 


[  264  ] 


By  tbe  Law 
of  Jaffrm,  a 
eon  is  not  lia- 
ble for  hia 
father's  debts, 
unless  the  lat- 
ter has  left 
property,  and 
the  son  has 
taken  posses- 
sion thereof. 


The  lilaintiff  in  this  action  is  following  a  legal 
remedy  which  he  ought  to  have  had  recourse  to 
in  the  first  instance  ;  and  he  was  punished  under 
the  criminal  proceedings  only  for  ejecting  hy 
form,  instead  of  bringing  this  action  to  recoTer 
possession. — [_No.  3682,  D.  (7.  Kaigalle,  (C.) 

April  24,  (J.  St.  C.) 

614 — Gander  v.  Eamasarnij. 

The  plaintiff  and  appellant,  in  this  case,  is  a 
creditor  of  defendant's  deceased  father,  and  he 
claims  the  amount  of  his  debt  against  the  son. 
He  alleges  that  the  son  inherited  property  from 
the  father ;  but,  he  adds,  whether  he  did  or  not, 
the  mere  circumstance  of  his  being  his  son  ren- 
ders him  liable  for  all  the  father's  debts. 

In  this  demand  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  he 
is  borne  out  by  the  text  of  the  Thesewalleme, 
which  distinctly  states  that,  "  although  the  parents 
"  do  not  leave  any  thing,  the  sons  are  never- 
"  theless  bound  to  pay  the  debts  contracted  by 
"their  parents  ;"  and  again,  "  although  the  sons 
"  have  not  at  the  time  wherewith  to  pay  the  said 
"  debts,  they  nevertheless  remain  accountable  for 
"the   same." 

The  District  Judge  has  however  thrown  out 
this  action  on  the  ground  that,  "  there  is  no 
"  proof  adduced  that  the  defendant  inherited  or 
"  received  any  of  his  deceased  father's  property; 
"  and  that,  in  fact  it  appears,  that  he  died  leav- 
"ing  no  property,  as  per  Eeport  of  the  Headmen 
"  made  on  the  writ  which  was  proved  by  plaintiff 
"  himself.  Such  being  the  case  it  is  indeed  hard 
"  to  make  the  defendant  sacrifice  what  he  has 
"  acquired,'  with  his  own  labour  and  industry, 
"for  his  father's  debts.  That  although  the  Coun- 
"  try  Law  directs  that  the  sons  are  to  pay  the 
"  father's  debt,  it  at  the  same  time  declares  that 
"  it  is  a  hard  one.  Under  the  foregoing  circum- 
"  stance  and  consideration  and  with  the  opinion 
"  of  the  Assessors,  it  is  decreed  that  plaintiff's 
"  claim  be  disiiiis>.od,  and  he  do  pny  defendant's 
"  costs  of  suit," 


[    205    ]  1839 

The  Supreme  Court,  wliilst  it  also  admits  tlie 
Jiardship  of  the  law,  would  not  have  felt  war- 
ranted in  overlooking  it  on  that  ground  alone ; 
but  as  the  TJieseivaUeine  is,  in  fact,  nothing  moi-e 
than  a  Eeport  of  the  customs  and  usages  of  the 
Country,  it  conceived  that  it  might  occur  in  this 
as  it  often  has  in  other  instances,  that  the  usage 
admitted  of  modiiications  wliich  softened  the  ri- 
gour of  the  general  principle,  and  reconciled  it 
to  the  rules  of  natural  equ^ity. 

For  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  this  point  it 
directed  three  special  assessors,  well  acquainted 
with  the  Malabar  tisages  as  practised  at  Jaffna- 
patam,  to  be  selected ;  and  it  further  proceeded 
to  examine  several  of  the  most  experienced 
among  the  native  inhabitants  on  the  custom. 
The  following  questions  were  then  put  to  the 
latter. 

First, — A  Father  dies  in  debt  leaving  no  avail- 
able property.  Are  his  sons  liable  to  discharge 
his  debts  from  the  property  accruing  to  them 
from  their  own  industry  :  and  if  so,  are  they  also 
liable  to  personal  arrest  for  such  debts  ? 

Second, — Are  lands  given  in  dower  to  a  daugh- 
ter liable  to  these  debts  ? 

Third, — Was  there  any  ancient,  or  is  there 
any  known  form,  by  which,  after  the  decease  of 
the  parent,  the  sons,  by  renouncing  to  his  inheri- 
tance, could  exempt  themselves  from  this  liabi- 
lity ? 

The  answers  were  as  follows  : — 

Three  of  the  witnesses  declared, 

That  the  sons  were  liable  in  person  and  pro- 
perty. 

ITiat  lands  given  in  dower  to  the  daughters 
were  not ;  and  that  they  did  not  know,  nor  had 
they  heard  of  any  form  by  which  the  sons  could 
exempt  themselves  from  this  liability. 

Mr.  Mootiah,  the  District  Judge,  who  was  the 
fourth  witness,  gave  the  same  answer  to  the  two 
first  questions  ;  but  to  the  last  he  answered  that 
he  had  heard  of  instances,  and  was  himself  aware 
of  one,  in  the  time  of  Mr.  Dankin,  when,  on  the 
sons  coming  forward  and  repudiating  altogether 


1S39 


[  266  ] 


Letters  of 
Administration 
have  supersed- 
ed the  appli- 
cation for  the 
Benefit  of  an 
Inventory, 


their  father's  inheritance,  thej  had  been  exempt- 
ed from  the  payment  of  his  debts :  and  this  he 
understood  to  be  the  present  Law.  He  also 
quoted  an  instance  in  the  High  Court  of  Appeal 
of  about  ten  years  standing,  in  which  the  sons 
had  been  exempted  from  liability  on  the  grounds 
now  taken  oy  the  District  Judge,  ("  the  extreme 
hardship  of  the  Law") ;  but,  he  added,  that  this 
precedent  had  never  been  considered  Law,  and 
had  been  over-ruled  by  the  subsequent  practice. 

The  three  Assessors  concurred  entirely  in  opi- 
nion with  Mr.  Mootiah,  and  the  first  Assessor 
stated  that  he  had  a  full  knowledge  of  the  case 
in  Mr.  BunJciWs  time,  to  which  Mr.  Mootiah  re- 
ferred, which  he  considered  consonant  with  the 
usage. 

It  thus  appears  that  the  above  passage  in  the 
Thesewaneme,  though  correct  as  far  as  it  goes,  is 
nothing  more  or  less  than  a  rule  of  the  Civil,  or 
rather  Eoman-Dutch  Law, — the  common  law  not 
not  only  of  Jaffna,  but  throughout  the  Maritime 
Provinces — ^by  which  law  the  heir  is  responsible  for 
the  ancestor's  debts,  unless  he  had  repudiated 
the  inheritance,  which  he  is  at  liberty  to  do 
whenever  he  is  sued  for  any  such  debt ;  except 
he  should,  in  the  mean  time,  have  intromitted 
or  done  any  of  those  acts  which  show  that  he 
intended  to  appropriate  the  inheritance  to  him- 
self. 

Nor  has  this  Law  been  in  any  way  rescinded  or 
modified  up  to  this  time.  Formerly,  indeed, 
where  the  heir  entertained  a  doubt  whether  the 
estate  could  discharge  all  its  liabilities,  he  was 
at  liberty  to  apply  for  the  Benefit  of  an  Inventory, 
and  now  he  applies  for  Letters  of  Administration. 
The  latter  form,  as  in  many  respects  the  more 
convenient  and  consonant  with  our  present  judi- 
cial institutions ;  having  in  effect,  superseded  the 
former ;  but  this  has  not  done  away  with  the  doc- 
trine of  intromission,  or  removed  the  responsi- 
bility of  the  heir.  Letters  of  Administration 
are  only  requisite  for  Tiis  protedion,  and  they  are 
also  requisite  when  a  stranger,  such  as  a  credi- 
tor, or  others  haying  claims  upon  a  vacant  estate, 


[  267  1 


1839 


are  desirous  of  obtaining  a  title  which  will  war- 
rant them  in  recovering  the  assets  and  manag- 
ing the  property. 

On  these  grounds  the  decree  of  the  District 
Court  is  affirmed,  unless  the  plaintiff  shall  un- 
dertake to  prove  that  the  defendant  has  appro- 
priated to  himself  any  portion  of  the  property  of 
his  deceased  father,  without  having  obtained 
Letters  of  Administration.  Should  the  plaintiff 
not  undertake  this  proof,  and  should  his  debtor 
have  actually  left  any  property,  the  said  plain- 
tiff will  still  have  his  recourse  against  such  pro- 
perty, on  taking  out  Letters  of  Administration 
to  that  estate.— [Jfo.  1531,  D.  C-  Waditnoratchy. 
(Coll.) 

615—Assena  Lehhe  v.  'Siwne  Marhwr  and  others. 


It  being  clear,  in  this  case,  that  the  property 
in  dispute  ,  whether  liable  to  the  plaintiff's  claim 
or  not  has  been  taken  possession  of  and  appro- 
priated to  their  use  by  defendants  as  heirs  to 
their  uncle,  the  Snpreme  Court  is  of  opinion 
that  Letters  of  Adininistration  are  unnecessary, 
the  defendants  having  rendered  themselves  res- 
ponsible for  all  the  liabilities  cf  their  ancestor. 

In  the  case  from  Wadimoratchy  No.  1531, 
the  principles  by  which  the  Court  is  guided  are 
in  a  great  measure  laid  down,  but  in  further 
elucidation  ot  its  sentiments  it  will  now  observe 
that  the  practice  of  granting  Letters  of  Adminis- 
tration, peculiar  to  the  English  Law,  has  never 
extended  in  England  to  real  estates.  A  contra- 
ry rule  has  however  sprung  up  in  Ceylon,  and 
an  extension  has  been  given  to  this  practice  very 
recently,  by  which  it  would  seem  to  have  been 
understood,  in  some  parts  of  the  Island,  that 
Letters  of  Administration  are  absolutely  necessary 
in  all  cases  whatever  of  real  or  personal  inheri- 
tance db  intestato.  This  course  it  is  understood 
is  considered  called  for  by  the  27th  section  of 
the  Charter ;  but  even  in  giving  the  very  amplest 
construction  to  that  clause,  and  taking  the  word 
Estates  in  its  broadest  sense,  a  construction  how- 
ever contrary  to  the  ordinary  and  accustomed 


An  heir  who 
takes  posses- 
sion of  the 
property,  ren- 
ders himself 
liable  for  the 
debts  of  the 
intestate. 


1839  [    268    ] 

one,  for  the  words  are  ."  estates  and  effects,"  and 
therefore  the  former  expression  is  limited  by  the 
latter,  still  there  is  nothing  in  the  clause  to' 
make  it  incumbent  on  all  parties  to  take  out 
these  Letters, — it  merely  grants  District  Courts, 
and  District  Court  only,  full  power  and  authority 
to  grant  them  when  they  ought  to  be  gi'anted. 
The  original  jurisdiction  of  the  District  Courts 
is  rendered  exclusive,  evidently  because  previously 
they  were  sometimes  also  granted  by  the  Su- 
preme Court,  but  the  words  are  not  imperative, 
they  merely  empower  and  vest  a  discretionary 
authority  in  the  District  Coui't  to  make  such 
grant. 

It  is  also  said  real  property  is  by  the  Civil 
Law  assets  for  the  payment  of  debts,  but  where 
there  are  no  debts,  or  where  the  right  heir  un- 
dertakes to  pay  the  debts,  there  is  and  can  be  no 
no  good  reason  for  burthening  him  with  new  and 
unaccustomed  forms  .and  thus  increasing  his  dif- 
ficulties. The  heir  is,  by  Law,  unless  he  has 
repudiated,  the  Administration  to  the  estate,  he 
can  as  such  maintain  at  once  as  plaintiff  or  de- 
fendant any  action  concerning  it ;  and  where  he 
is  not  solvent,  or  the  estate  is  not  likely  to  be 
secure  in  his  hands  the  present  Law  has  always 
afforded  an  adequate  remedy  by  tlien  authorizing 
a  separate  administration,  if  applied  for,  within 
five  years  from  the  decease  of  the  intestate  :  and 
it  is  to  this  that  the  law  Dig.  42.  L.  1.  §  13.  erro- 
neously quoted,  as  referring  to  the  division  of 
estates  in  the  old  case  No.  2364,  applies  ;  — as 
many  be  seen  in  the  Censura  Forensis  L.  4.  c.  IL 
§  13.  The  effect  of  this  new  practice  if  pushed 
beyond  due  bounds,  would  be  pernicious  in  the 
extreme.  Already  have  settlements  of  thirty 
years  standing  been  called  in  question,  whilst  by 
rendering  real  property  always  convertible  into 
money  at  the  mere  pleasure  of  an  Administrator, 
all  hereditary  predelections  for  ancestral  estates, 
— a  feeling  existing  as  intensely  here  as  in  any 
part  of  the  world,  were  destroyed.  These  incon- 
veniences are  felt  even  when  the  assets  of  the 
"  estates  are  forthcoming  ;   but  in  other  instances 


[   269    ]  1839 

the  estates  have  disappeared  altogether,  they  have 
been  sold,  their  value  squandered  away,  and  a 
remedy  against  an  Insolvent  Administrator  and 
an  Insolvent  Security  is  all  that  remains  to  the 
right  heirs. 

Nor  is  even  this  all,  one  anomaly  has  led  to  others, 
and  it  has   followed   as    a  corollary  from  the  first 
mistaken  principle,  that  as,  until  Letters  of  Admin- 
istration are  actually  taken  out,  no  action  will  lie ; 
persons  have  taken  possession  of  estates,  enjoyed 
and  disposed    of    them,    without   observing  this 
form ;  and  no  sufficiently  available  remedy  remains 
against  them,   for   the   first   step   required  from 
any  one  having   claims    on   estates    so  possessed, 
whether   creditors   or  heirs,  is   to  compel  them  to 
take    out    administration,    which     they    cannot 
obtain  except  on  giving   security  by   themselves 
and    others    to    double    the    value  of  the  whole 
estate,   much  of  which  the  wrong  doer   may  have 
already  dissipated  a  step  so  onerous  that  few  are 
found  to  take  it,   and  the    practical   result  has 
already  too  often  been   that    the    intruder    has 
been  held  perfectly  harmless  in  his  wrong  doing. 
Now  by   the  Law  of  England   a  person  acting  in 
this  manner  is   an  Administrator  de  son  tort,  and 
to  the  extent  of  the  assets   liable  for  all  the  debts 
of  the  deceased  ;  whilst  the  Civil  Law  goes  further 
and  renders  him  liable,  not  only  to  the  extent  of 
the  assets,  but  to  the  full  extent  of  the  liabilities 
however  they  might  exceed  the  assets  ;  and  this 
he  is  by  the  laws  of  the  both  countries  responsible 
for  immediately,   and  on  mere  proof  that  he  has 
intromitted. 

Nor  are  these  objections  entirely  of  recent  date. 
So  far  baok  as  1822,  though  then  the  practice  of 
taking  out  administration  was  by  no  means  so 
frequent,  for,  in  1834,  (see  judgment  Supreme 
Court  14th  May),  it  had  scarcely  extended  to 
Caltm-a.  The  Court  in  jironouncing  its  judgment 
observed  as  follows  : — "  The  taking  out  of 
"  Administration  to  Mwrtha  seems  to  have  created 
"  much  of  the  difficulty  of  this  case,  and  this 
"  difficulty  shows  how  very  catitiously  a  branch  of 
"  a  totally  different  system  shonld  be  transferred  to 


18.39  [  270  1 

"  any  code  of  Laws  ;  the  Dutch  Roman  Law,  not- 
"  withstanding  what  the  Provincial  Judge  has  been 
"pleased  to  propound,  knows  nothing  whatever  of 
"  administrations,  which  are  derived  wholly  from 
"  the  English  Code.  How  an  administration 
"  to  Simon  could  operate  at  all  upon  the  rights  of 
"  the  Respondent  and  his  wife,  vested  absolutely 
"  by  the  death  of  Martha,  I  can  in  no  wise  conceive; 
"  or  why  it  should  have  been  thought  necessary 
"  by  Simon  to  take  it  out.  Indeed  the  wJwle 
"  subject  of  these  administrations  in  the  subordinate 
"  Courts  is  involved  in  a  preplexity,  ivhich  it  would 
"  he  a  matter  of  public  utility  to  Jiave  explained  by 
"  competent  authority" 

And  now  that  it  has  begun  to  be  more  generally 
insisted  upon  by  District  Courts,  it  is  not  too 
much  to  say  that  this  practice  had  already  become 
the  most  serious  grievance  connected  with  the 
administration  of  justice,  of  which  the  mass  of  the 
population  complained.  But  it  has  been  urged  that 
by  these  means  the  rights  of  absentees,  and  of  the 
actual  parties  to  the  suit  against  the  absentees, 
are  protected.  This  may  be  a  sufficient  reason  to 
induce  the  parties  themselves  to  apply  for  admin- 
istration, when  the  inheritance  is  not  already  duly 
represented  ;  but  it  is  none  for  compelling  them 
to  do  so.  The  principle  is  equally  novel  and 
untenable,  that,  before  a  party  can  maintain  his 
own  rights  or  defend  his  possession,  he  is  to  give 
security  that  he  will  at  his  own  peril,  cost  and 
charge,  defend  the  interests  of  the  absentees,  and 
others  who  do  not  think  fit  to  come  forward  and 
defend  themselves ;  nor  may  it  be,  on  the  other 
hand  always  perfectly  fair  and  just  towards  these 
absentees  that  their  interests  should  be  thus 
vicariously  disposed  of. 

The  power  vested  in  the  District  Courts  under 
the  Charter  being  purely  discretionary,  and  this 
practice  to  the  extent  now  noticed  being  not  only 
unfounded  in  law  but  inequitable,  it  follows  that 
it  cannot  be  affirmed  by  the  Supreme  Court,  which 
conceives  that  the  old  established  Law  of  the 
Island  continues  in  full  force  ;  and  that,  whilst 
District  Courts  are  "  empowered"  to  grant  admin- 


[  271   ] 


1839 


istration  in  any  case,  subject  of  course  to  appeal, 
they  will  exercise  an  undue  discretion  and  lay 
tjieir  judgments  open  to  reversal  if  they  ever  grant 
them  when  the  rightful  heirs,  being  solvent  and 
of  full  age  are  willing  to  accept,  or  when  such 
rightful  heirs  have  de  facto  accepted  the  estate 
with  all  its  liabilities.  This  will  not  prevent 
their  being  still  grantable,  as  stated  in  the  other 
ease  this  day  determined,  whenever  the  estate  is 
actually  vacant  or  unoccupied,  or  whenever  the 
rightful  heirs  apply  for  them  for  their  own  protec- 
tion, or  to  make  out  a  title, — provided  they  do 
so  before  they  have  actually  accepted. 

The  decree  is  therefore  set  aside,  and  the  Dis- 
trict Court  is  to  pronounce  its  opinion  on  the 
merits.  It  would  be  very  advisable  before  it  does 
so,  that  it  should  examine  both  the  parties  as  to 
any  deeds  that  either  may  have  in  his  possession, 
relating  to  this  property. — [_No.  1959,  X>.  G. 
Mamaar.  (Coll.) 

616 — Brook  v.  Jones. 

The  question  in  this  case  is   simply  whether  a    iamaintainable 
party  can  recover  upon  a  private  Lottery  Ticket, .  on    a   lottery 
and  the  Supreme  Court  is  of  opinion  that  he  can-    ticket, 
not.      Unsanctioned  Lotteries  are   a   species   of 
gaming  prohibited  by  Law.     Such  is  the  express 
opinion,  among  other  authorities,  of  Vinnius,  in 
which  the  Court  concurs.     The  decree  of  the  Dis- 
trict Court  is  therefore   reversed,  and  plaintiff's 
action  dismissed,  but  without  costs. — [No.  7024, 
B.  0.  Trincomalie.  (Coll.) 

617. — Caylan  v.  Ghirmepulle  and  another.       ^•^-  *."   v,.-.> 

A  creditor,  on  a  Bond  entered  into  by  husband  ondWUfe^  O* 

and  wife,  can  only  take  out  execution  against  the  a     JuSginent 

person  and  property  of  the  husband  ;  and  against  against     hus- 

the  property,   but  not   against  the  person  of  the  ^^^^  and  wife, 

wife,  during  coverture._[Fo.  4086,  D.  C  BaUi-  '^l  ^^^f- 

««««•  (Coll.)  taken  up. 

618. — Bastion  Fernando  and  others  v.  Bona 
Fromcina. 

The  Supreme  Court  has   Collectively  decided     .  The  posses- 

that  the  possession  of  one  joint-heir  is  not  adA}erse  s:on  of  a  jomt 


1839 


[  272   1 


heir  is  not  ad- 
Verse  to  the 
other. 


In  the  Kan- 
dyan  Territo- 
ries, as  else- 
where, a  mar- 
ried woman 
cannot  sue  or 
be  sued  alone  ; 
and  a  Judg- 
ment against 
her  is  void. 


One  tenant 
in  common  can- 
not prescribe 
against  his  co- 
tenant  under 
thirty  years. 


to  tlie  otlicr,  so  as  to  vest  a  prescriptive  title 
under  the  Ordinance  in  ten  years. — [_No.  3025, 
P.  G.  Colombo.  (C.) 

619. — Uingeri/  MenioJca  y-  Arachigey  Vidahn. 

This  case  having  been  considered  Collectively 
along  with  Badulla,  No.  7482,  and  Madawelletenne 
No.  1461,  and  it  having  been  determined  that  in 
the  Kandyan  Territories,  as  elsewhere,  a  married 
woman  can  neither  sue  nor  be  sued  alone ;  and 
it  appearing  that  the  plaintiif  in  this  case  is  a 
married  woman,  and  that  neither  her  husband  nor 
any  curator  ad  litem,  is  a  party  to  the  suit :  it  is 
adjudged  that  the  proceedings  are  null  and  void, 
and  the  case,  is  accordingly  dismissed. 

The  District  Judges  are  required  in  every  case 
to  direct  that  it  shall  be  recorded  in  the  libel, 
answer,  or  petitions  of  intervenients  whether  the 
parties  are  married  or  unmarried,  minors  or  of 
full  age.— [ATo.  7830,  D.  C  Badulla,— Also  No. 
7482  D.  C.  Badulla  and  No.  1461,  D.  G.  Mada- 
welleteivne.  (St.) 

620 — David  Perera  and  another  v.  Carolus  Perera 

and  others. 

The  point  before  the  Court  in  this  case  was 
as  follows :  viz  ;  Is  an  action  by  a  coparcener  or 
tenant  in  common  who  has  not  taken  possession, 
against  his  caparcener  or  co-tenant  in  possession, 
for  his  share  of  the  common  estate,  barred  by  a 
prescription  of  ten  years,  or  any  less  term  than 
thirty  years  ? 

Judgment — The  question  thus  stated  resolves 
itself  in  the  first  instance  into  this, — is  the  pos- 
session of  the  co-heir  or  co-tenant  an  adverse  or 
independent  possession,  for,  if  it  be  not  so,  the 
above  section  clearly  does  not  apply ;  but  if  it 
does  not,  no  other  part  of  the  Ordinance  can ; 
and  all  preceding  local  Regulations  on  the  same 
subject,  are  distinctly  repealed  by  that  Ordinance ; 
so  that  reference  must  thenceforth  be  had  for  the 
decision  of  the  point,  to  Roman-Dutch  principles. 

The  Court  is  of  opinion,  that,  by  the  known 
Laws  of  all  Countries,  English  and  Roman,  as 
well   as   the   modern    Laws,    derived    from  the 


[  273    ] 

Roman,  including  expressly  the  Roman-Diitcli, 
the  possession  of  a  coparcener  or  co-tenant  is 
not  an  adverse,  but  a  concurreni  possession ;  the 
original  title  is  the  same,  and  the  possession  of 
one  is  the  possession  of  the  whole :  so  that  the 
one  is  neither  adverse  to  nor  independent  of,  the 
other,  in  the  only  sense  in  which  the  latter  word 
can  be  used  in  an  Ordinance  on  Prescription ; — 
for,  it  is  impossible  to  make  out  the  title  of  the 
one,  without  at  the  same  time,  making  out  the 
other.  There  can  be  doubt  that  the  possessor 
entered  as  a  coparcener, — his  coparceners  having 
llien  an  equally  good  title,  and  in  all  questions  of 
prescription  of  real  estate,  the  tenure  under 
which  possession  conwnenced,  is  held  to  have  conti- 
wued  until  the  possessor  proves  that  it  has  been 
changed  or  introverted.  The  possessor  is  there- 
fore never  called  upon  for  his  title,  until  a  title 
is  proved  against  him,  and  then  he  must  make 
out  a  better  title  by  something- more  than  ten 
years  possession.  To  establish,  in  short  a  ten 
years  prescription,  the  possession  must  have  com- 
menced in  good  faith ;  it  must  therefore  be  found- 
ed on  such  a  title  as  is  entirely  inconsistent  with 
the  claimant's  right :  so  that  both  titles  cannot 
be  valid  at  the  same  time  and  consequently  the 
possession  of  the  one  must  be  irreconcilable  with 
the  right  of  the  other.  But  though  these  prin- 
ciples, taken  generally,  are  beyond  dispute,  it  is 
contended  that  the  following  words  in  the  above 
section  of  this  Ordinance  show  what  was  intended 
to  be  an  "  adverse"  possession  under  that  Ordi- 
nance : — ("  that  is  to  say,  a  possession  unaccom- 
"  panied  by  payment  of  rent  or  produce,  or  per- 
"  formance  of  service  or  duty,  or  by  any  other 
"  act  by  the  possessor  from  which  an  acknowledg- 
"ment  of  a  right  existing  in  another  person 
"  would  fairly  and  naturally  be  inferred.")  The 
Court  cannot  but  consider  such  definitions  insert- 
ed in  a  parenthesis,  as  given  by  way  of  example 
ad  demonstrandum,  and  not  by  way  of  limitation, 
the  passage  enacts  nothing  :  it  merely  designates 
a  few  instances,  concluding  with  words  so  vague 
and  general,  as  to  leave  the  definition  exactly  as 
it  stood  at  Common  Law. 


1S39 


1839  [  274    ] 

Then,  though  the  period  of  prescription, 
whether  of  five,  ten,  or  twenty  years,  or  of  any 
less  or  longer  time,  varies  in  different  Countries, 
and  is  universally  regulated  by  positive  Law, — 
(Cujas  quotes  several  hundred  of  these  periods 
ranging  from  a  day  to  a  century,  as  existing  in 
the  Roman  Law  alone), — ^yet,  the  principles  upon 
which  such  questions  ought  to  be  determined  are 
matter  of  doctrine  :  they  are  equitable  rules  com- 
mon to  all  countries,  with  which,  no  doubt,  every 
Legislatm'e  may  deal,  and  occasionally  will  deal ; 
but  with  which  a  Legislature  will  never  be  pre- 
sumed to  have  dealt  by  mere  inference,  nor  indeed 
unless  the  terms  it  has  used  are  terms  of  enact- 
ment express  and  distinct.  This  rule  applies 
with  peculiar  force  to  the  present  subject.  Most 
of  the  land  throughout  this  Island  (garden  or 
field)  is  occupied  by  others  than  the  proprietor, — 
by  planters,  by  cultivators,  by  tenants, — and  these 
several  holdings  are  occasionally  handed  down 
from  father  to  son,  not  only  for  a  few  years,  but 
actually  for  centuries.  Can  it  be  contended  that 
such  possessors,  holding  under  a  title  entirely 
precarious,  are,  because  they  fail  for  ten  years  in 
paying  their  annual  redditus,  to  become  by  such 
their  laches  the  usurpers  of  the  soil  7  That 
they  are  to  throw  out  their  landlords,  and  chang- 
ing their  own  title,  to  become  incommutable  pro- 
prietors, and  that  this  benefit  is  to  commence 
accruing  to  them  from  the  first  day  they  failed  in 
their  engagements  ? 

Then,  when  a  tenant  does  actually  pay  his  rent 
the  receipt  is  in  his  hands.  The  proprietor  has 
no  written  proof  of  the  payment ;  so  that,  whether 
such  holders  have  paid  or  not,  he  would,  if  this 
opinion  were  allowed  to  prevail,  incur  the  risk  of 
being  deprived,  however  clear  his  original  title, 
however  clear  the  ground  of  his  tenant's  occupa- 
tion, not  only  of  his  income,  but  of  the  fee  simple 
of  his  estate  :  except  he  could  at  all  times  adduce 
oral  evidence  of  an  actual  payment  within  the  ten 
years  preceding.  A  fraudulent  trustee  again 
would  be  protected  by  ten  years  continued  mis- 
conduct.    The  construction  endeavoured  to  be  put 


C  2-0    ] 

on  the  Ordinftnce  embraces  all  these  cases  as  ivell 
as  the  case  under  consideration.  It  either  applies 
to  all,  or  it  applies  to  none.  It  has  been  re- 
peatedly maintained  that  it  applied  to  all ;  but 
the  established  jurisprudence  of  the  Court  in  ac- 
cordance with  every  well  known  principle  of  Law, 
good,  faith,  and  equity,  has  ruled  that  it  applied 
to  none  and  that  an  adverse  possession  is  still, 
what  an  adverse  possession  was  at  Common  Law. 
The  plea  for  the  opposite  opinion  is  that  it  tends 
to  secure  titles ;  but  titles  so  easily  won,  may  be 
as  easily  lost  :  such  titles  are  scarcely  worth 
having.  To  give  value  to  property  a  title  must 
not  be  easily  obtainable  by  fair  means,  but  lost 
with  difficulty  by  dishonest  means,  or  the  very 
object  in  obtaining  any  title  is  defeated.  Nor  are 
the  dangers  above  stated  merely  imaginary.  A 
tenant  under  a  Notarial  lease  in  due  form  has 
already  been  known  to  claim  the  fee  simple  in 
the  soil,  mainly  on  the  ground,  that  he  had  not 
paid  the  rent  he  unquestionably  owed  for  ten 
years,  in  which  plea  he  was  certainly  borne  out 
by  the  construction  attempted  to  be  put  upon 
this  Ordinance,  for  "  no  act  had  been  done  by  the 
possessor  within  the  ten  yea/rs  from  which  a  title 
could  be  in  any  way  presumed"  ;  and  if  this  act 
may  be  done  wpwards  of  ten  years  before,  then  the 
original  entry  as  an  heir  is  an  act  from  which  the 
right  of  all  persons  in  the  same  right  not  only 
"may'"  be  "fairly  amdnoMrally,"  but  must  neces- 
sarily be  presumed ;  and  the  attempt  by  planters 
and  cultivators  to  usurp  the  fee  simple  are  very 
numerous.  See  among  others,  cases  Caltura  4944, 
2889,  and  Matura  2343. 

What  thenis  the  Common  or  Roman- Dutch  Law  ? 
The  Court,  perfectly  acquainted  with  the  decision 
in  case  No.  2364  before  the  High  Court  of  Appeal, 
would  question  the  correctness  of  the  judgment 
then  pronounced  with  great  hesitation ;  for  few 
judicial  opinions  does  it  entertain  so  high  a  res- 
pect as  for  SirHarddnge  Giffard's.  He  has,  how- 
ever, with  his  usual  straight-forwardness  of  pur- 
pose and  disposition,  quoted  the  authority  on 
which  he  relied ;  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that, 


1839 


1839  [    276    ] 

according  to  tlie  sentiments  of  all  Commentators 
on  the  Roman  Law,  the  Dig-  Lib-  42.  Tit.  6.  §  13. 
so  quoted  and  relied  upon  by  him  has  no  reference 
to  this  point.  Nothing  short  of  this  uniformity 
of  opinion  among  authors  could  hare  induced  the 
Court  to  confide  in  its  own  previously  formed 
judgment,  thus  opposed.  The  applicability  of  this 
quotation  is  not  however  a  point  of  doctrine  but 
of  fact,  and  upon  this  fact  it  entertains  not  a 
doubt.  To  multiply  citations  from  any  large 
number  of  Commentators  were  superfluous.  The 
Court  will  limit  itself  to  three,  viz  :  the  principal 
among  the  more  ancient  writers,  Cujas ;  the  princi- 
pal among  the  moderns,  Pothier ;  and  one  of  the 
first — the  most  familiar  in  these  Courts  among 
Roman-Dutch  writers  on  Civil  Law, — Van 
Leeuwen's  Censura  Forensis ;  and  this  author  is 
selected  in  preference,  as  it  is  probably  owing  to 
a  mistranslation  of  a  passage  in  his  more  popular 
work  "  The  Commentaries,"  that  the  doubt  sug- 
gested itself. 

The  Law  quoted  by  Sir  Hardinge  Giffard  is  as 
follows ; — "  Quod  dicitur  post  muttum  temporis 
separationem  impetrari  non  po-^se,  accipiendum 
ut  ultra  quinquennium  post  aditionem  numeran- 
dum  separatio  non  postuletur."  The  construc- 
tion which  the  Court  itself  puts  upon  this  Law 
has  been  explained  in  its  judgment  of  this  day's 
date,  Maiiaar,  1959;  it  refers,  not  to  a  division 
of  common  property,  but  to  the  right  possessed 
by  creditors  of  insisting  on  the  estate  of  a  deceas- 
ed person  being  kept  separate  from  that  of  his 
heirs  when  the  latter  are  insolvent,  or  nearly  so, 
which  by  this  Law  they  are  at  liberty  to  claim  for 
five  years,  by  which  means  they  prevent  a  "  con- 
fusio"  or  merger  of  the  debts  and  credits  of  the 
two  estates. 

So  Cujas  observes  ; — "Ultra  quinquennium  post 
aditionem  hereditatis  creditores  defuncti  separa- 
tionem non  impetrare."  Pothier  : — "Est  superioris 
"  Tituli  sequela  hie  Titulus ;  in  quo  agitur  De 
"  Separatione  Bonorum,  quam  impetrant  creditores 
"  defuncti,  cujus  hereditatem  adivit  is  cujus  bona 
"  proscribuntur;" — PothiWPamh'dg, Lib. 42.  T!t.6 . 


[    277     ]  1839 

And  Van  Leeuwen  in  Lib.  4.  cap.  xi.  §  23. 
(whilst  quoting  the  same  Law  in  his  margin  L. 
42.  Tit-  6.  De  Separationibus,)  comments  on  it  as 
follows  :  "  Aliud  porro  privilegium  est,  quod  credi- 
tcrri  contra  debitoris  sui  heredem  suspectum 
eompetit,  etiam  eum  qui  solvendo  non  sit ;  "  and 
then  he  proceeds  to  show  that  a  quinquennial 
prescription  is  a  bar  to  this  privilege  by  virtue  of 
the  passage,  quoted  by  Sir  Hardinge  Gi'ffard, 
which  forms  §  13.  of  this  Title  6. —  But  superior 
in  authority  to  all  Commentators,  what  is  the 
first  Clause,  §  1.  of  this  veiy  Title  6.  Lib.  42.  in 
the  Digest  itself?  It  distinctly  explains  the 
sense  in  which  the  word  "  separatio"  is  used 
throughout.  It  states  "  solet  autem  separatio 
"  permitti  creditoribus ;  ut  puta  debitorem  quis 
"  Sejum  habet,  hie  decessit  hseres  ei  extitit  Titius; 
"  hie  non  est  solvendo  patitur  bonorum  vendi- 
"tionem:  creditores  Seji  dicuntbona  Seji  sufRcere 
"  sibi,  creditores  Titii  contentos  esse  debere  boni 
"  Titii,  et  sic  quasi  duorum  fieri  bonorum  vendi- 
"tionem;  hie  est  igitur  sequissimum,  creditores 
"  Seji  desiderantes  separationem  audiri ;  impet- 
"  rareque  a  Praetore  ut  separatim  quantum  cujus- 
"  que  creditoribus  prsestetur,"  which  separation 
this  Law  proceeds  to  say  (Section  13.)  must  be 
applied  for  within  five  years. 

What  then  are  the  passages  of  the  Civil  Code 
applicable  to  this  subject,  and  what  the  term  of 
prescription  settled  by  that  Code  ?  Those  appli- 
cable to  this  subject  are  the  Laws,  "  de  communi 
dividundo  famili%  erciscundee,  et  de  petitione 
hereditatis,"  ff.  10.  Tit.  3:  ff.  10.  Tit.  2 :  S.  5.  Tit. 
3 :  and  to  all  these  the  same  period  of  prescrip- 
tion by  the  Koman  Law  applies,  viz :  thirty  years. 
So  Cujas ; — "  Secundum,  est  de  prescriptione 
"  30  annorum,  qua  tolluntm-  actiones  personales 
"  et  mixtjB,  veluti  petitio  hereditatis,  communi 
"dividundo,  familiae  erciscundee;"  so  that  even  the 
prescriptiu  longi  temporis  (10  years  among  persons 
present,  20  if  absent,)  did  not  apply  to  either. 

See  also  the  Code,  L.  7.  Tit.  40.  §  1.  By  the 
Eoman-Dutch  Law  however  it  would  appear 
that  the  rule  is  not  so  clearly  established.     Some 


1S39  [  278  ] 

authorities  favor  the  Eoman  term ;  others  main- 
tain that  the  period  is  one  third  of  a  century,  or 
thirty  three  years  and  four  months.  This  in  the 
present  case  is  perfectly  immaterial,  and  the  Court 
does  not  therefore  feel  warranted  in  going  into 
this  last  point.  It  is  true  that  by  the  present 
English  Law  the  right  of  a  coparcener  is  barred 
by  twenty  years  prescription,  but  it  required  a 
very  recent  Act  3.  and  4.  Wm.  4.  C.  27,  to 
effect  this,  previously  it  was  not  barred  by  any 
lapse  of  time  whatever,  which  is  also  the  case 
by  the  Roman  Law  when  either  of  the  coparceners 
actually  in  possession  claims  a  division,  for  the 
right  to  sever  a  common  tenure  is  unprescriptible, 
and  it  is  to  this  the  Law  L.  9.  Cod.  Gom/nwn. 
uiriusque  Judic.  (iii.  38.)  applies. 

The  Court  deems  it  right  to  conclude  with  the 
following  observations.  If  any  sale  or  bona  fide 
transfer  by  legacy  or  gift  had  taken  place  in 
favour  of  respondents,  so  as  to  produce  a  change 
in  the  title,  and  10  years  had  expired  from  the 
period  of  such  change  to  the  date  of  the  action, 
no  doubt  the  appellant's  right  would  be  affectually 
barred.  Here  indeed  there  is  a  legacy,  but  ten 
years  have  not  expired  from  the  date  of  that 
legacy.  Nor  would  the  Court  have  it  supposed 
that,  though  in  its  opinion  nothing  short  of  a 
thirty  or  thirty  three  and  one-third  years  prescip- 
tion  is  an  actual  bar  to  this  action,  the  lapse 
of  time  whether  of  ten  years  or  more,  or  even 
less,  ought  not  to  be  taken  into  consideration  as 
a  faM  tending  to  induce  a  presumption  that  a 
division  has  really  taken  place,  on  the  contrary 
very  little  additional  proof  (as  for  instance  of  a 
separate  holding  of  any  portion  of  the  property) 
will  easily  induce  it  to  presume  such  division. 
All  that  is  before  it, — all  that  it  definitely  rules, 
is, — that  a  possession  by  coparcener,  or  other 
tenant  in  common,  is  not  an  adverse  possession ; 
and  that  neither  the  prescriptive  Ordinance,, 
nor  the  Law,  L.  42.  Tit  6.  §  13.  apply  to  such 
cases,— which,  consequently  are  not  barred  by  a 
less  prescription  than  thirty  years. 

The  decree  of  the  District  Court  is  therefore 


L  ^7'J   ] 


1839 


reTei'sed,  and  the  case  referred  back  for  further 
proceedhig,  without  costs.— [Xo.  19,620  D.  C. 
Colomho,  S.  (Coll.) 

May  1,  (0.  J,  St.) 

[  The  Hoh'ble  Sir  Anthony  Oi.iphant  was 
sww'n  in  as  Chief  Justice  of  t)te  Island  of  Cey- 
lon ■'I 

May  20,  (O.  St.) 

621. — Fernando  v.  Laxa  Miidianse  and  others. 

It  was  held,  in  this  case,  that  the  privilege  of 
Kandyans  does  not  extend  to  the  Regulation  of 
the  Law  of  Evidence,  either  in  matters  Civil  or 
Criminal,  by  their  own  customs.  The  Law  of 
England,  in  as  far  as  it  is  applicable  to  the  Laws 
of  this  Colony,  is  to  be  followed,  in  rejecting  or 
admitting  testimony. — [JVb.  1164,  D.  C-  Colombo, 
(St.) 

May  27,  (St.) 

622. — Ameresekeregey  Carolus  v.  Salmon  Perera. 

The  statement  of  parties  on  mutual  examina- 
tion forms  no  part  of  the  pleading,  and  the  plead- 
ing of  the  defendant  does  not  appear  to  the 
Court  to  bear  the  interpretation  put  on  it  by  the 
District  Judge.  The  doctrine  of  the  District 
Judge  that  erroneous  or  defective  pleading  ought 
not  to  deprive  a  party  of  a  right  is  altogether 
fallacious.  He  is  to  decide  on  the  case  as  pleaded 
and  has  no  right  to  consider  any  averments  not 
»-e5f»Zar?y  before  him. — [2Vb.  20,179,  D.  C-  Colombo, 
S.  (S.) 

June  19,(0.  J.  St.), 

623. — Ohimus  v.  Q-roeff. 

The  Court  is  unanimously  of  opinion  that  by 
the  Dutch  Law  as  administered  in  Ceylon  under 
the  Dutch  Government,  a  father  was  bound  to 
apply  to  the  Weeshamer  for  authority  to  receive 
all  legacies  lett  to  his  minor  children,  as  their 
guardian.      It  is   also   unanimously   of    opinion 


The  privileges 
of  the  Kandy- 
ans do  not  ex- 
tend to  the 
Law  of  Evi- 
dence. 


Pleading. 
Effect  of  ex- 
aminations   of 

Piirties. 


A  Father  is 
not  entitled  to 
receive  a  le- 
gacy left  to  his 
minor  child, 
without  the 
authority       of 


1839 


[  280  ] 


the  S.C.,  which 
has  in  this  res- 
pect succeeded 
to  the  powers 
of  the  Wees 
Jeamer. 


Accord  andSa- 
tisfaction  how 
pleaded  and 
proved. 
Intervenient's 
right  to  call 
Evidence. 


that,  at  the  date  of  the  death  of  the  testator  in 
this  case,  the  Supreme  Court  possessed  all  the 
powers  which  had  been  formerly  vested  in  the 
Weeskamer,  and  that  the  father  of  the  wife  of 
the  plaintiff,  therefore,  was  not  entitled  to  receive 
the  legacy  as  her  guardian,  without  authority  from 
the  said  Court.— [JVo.  16,782,  B.  G.  Golombo,  S. 
(Coll.) 

June  26,  (0.  J.  St.) 

d-li — .Kvdiiian  V.  Fernando. 
Pedro  Percra,   lutervenient. 

The  plaintiff  claimed  certain  property  of  the 
defendant  by  purchase,  and  he  produces  his 
Deed  of  purchase  and  several  old  bonds. 
The  defendant  alleges  that  he  has  discharged 
these  bonds  by  means  of  payments  in  money 
and  in  goods.  Per  Jeeemib  J. — "  This  fact 
is  however  inconsistent  with  the  passing  of  the 
purchase  deed  ;  and  although  satisfaction  and  pay- 
ment as  well  as  a  set-off  may,  by  the  established 
practice  of  this  Island, — a  practice  long  since 
judiciously  adopted  from  the  English  Rules  of 
Pleading  and  Evidence,  and  now  in  effect  ratified 
by  the  Ordinance  relating  to  Evidence, — be  pleaded 
and  proved  in  discharge  of  a  bond  or  other 
specialty,  still  the  payments  must  be  notified 
Kspecifically,  and  must  be  of  a  liquid  nature.  The 
Court  therefore  very  properlv  rejected,  inasmuch 
as  regarded  the  defendant,  the  proof  of  payment 
tendered  so  loosely  by  him. 

"  But  a  new  party  has  intervened  who  states 
that  the  property  sold  to  plaintiff,  and  now  in 
dispute,  was,  at  the  time  of  the  sale,  under 
sequestration  for  a  debt  due  to  the  Government, 
for  which  debt  the  Intei-venieut  was  defendant's 
security ;  and  that  defendant  and  plaintiff  are,  or 
were  at  least  at  the  time,  of  passing  the  sale  and 
the  bonds,  acting  jointly,  in  collusion,  for  the 
purpose  of  defeating  the  Intervenient's  undoubted 
right, — nothing  being  in  fact  actually  due  by 
defendant  to  plaintiff.  It  is  shewn  that  the  pro- 
perty was  under  sequestration,  and  the  District 
Com-t  has,  accordingly,  cancelled  the  sale  ;  but  it 
has  given  the  plaintiff  a  right   of  priority   over 


[  281  ] 

over  the  Intervenient  upon  this  property  for  the 
amount  of  the  original  bonds, — having  thus  re- 
jected the  Intervenient's  offer  to  prove  that  the 
whole  transaction  was  nothing  more  or  less  than 
a  covert  arrangement  to  protect  defendant's  pro- 
perty from  the  claims  of  his  land  fide  creditors,  viz: 
Intervenient  and  Government.  In  so  doing 
the  Supreme  Court  conceives  that  the  District 
Couvt  has  gone  too  far.  The  Intervenient's  plea 
is  perfectly  regular  and  he  ought  to  have  been 
admitted  to  prove  the  alleged  collusion,  leaving 
it  to  the  opposite  party  to  meet  his  proof  in  the 
usual  way  by  counter  evidence.— [^o.  2702,  B.  0. 
Gohmho.  (J.) 

July  24,  (J.) 

62.5. — AiigoJiaitiy  v.  Samuel  Ap^oo. 

AVhere  it  was  stipulated  by  a  mortgage  deed 
that  the  property  mortgaged  should  be  redeemed 
within  a  given  time;  and  on  its  being  proved  that 
the  property  was  not  so  redeemed,  held,  that  from 
that  time  the  possession  became  adverse.  Ten 
years  adverse  possession  clearly  covers  any  defect 
of  title  ;  so  that  it  becomes  immaterial  to  enquire 
whether  the  stipulation  as  to  the  repayment  was 
sufficient  per  se,  or  not,  to  establish  a  perfectly 
valid  title.— [JVo.  21,429.  D.  C  Colomlo,  xV.(J.) 


1833 


Possession  o 
Mortgagee  be- 
comes adversef 
after  the  lapse 
of  the  period 
fixed  for  re- 
demption. Ten 
years  posses- 
sion will  give 
him  a  title  by 
prescription. 


626- 


July  31,  (0.  J.) 
-Imiibo  Natchia  v.  Ibrahim  LaUbe. 


The  evidence  in  this  case  has  fully  confinned 
the  opinion  originally  entertained  by  the  Supreme 
Court,  whilst  the  defendants  first  witness  a  Priest, 
furnishes  another  satisfactory  ground  for  adjudg- 
ing damages.  He  says  "  That  if  a  man  (  a  Ma- 
homedan)  has  once  made  a  promise  of  marriage, 
he  should  fulfil  it  before  he  contracts  another." — 
[No.  2363,  B.  C.  Matura.  (J.) 

627. — Maloeachigey  v.  Babacha  Hamy. 

The  principal  point   in  this  case,  is  tliat   the       Tmnsfer   of 
land  in  dispute  being  originally  Service  Parveny, 


A  Mahome- 
dan  having 
once  made  a 
promise  of  mar- 
riage is  bound 
toflilfil  it  be- 
fore he  con- 
tracts another 


1839 


[  282   ] 


veny  Lands 
previous  to 
1809,  held 
valid. 


A  party  who 
bonti  fide  builds 
on  another's 
Land,  is  entitl- 
ed to  compen- 
sation- 


and  therefore  not  liable  to  be  mortgaged  or  trans- 
ferred ;  Jebemie  J. — That,  it  appearing  that  the 
deeds  bear  date  in  1804,  whilst  Governor  North's 
Proclamations  of  1800  and  1801  were  in  force, 
by  which  Proclamations  "  tenure  of  service  was 
established,"  (though  this  tenure  was  subsequent- 
ly revived  in  180&),  the  transfers  were  valid. — 
[No.  14,775,  D.  C.  Colombo,  N.  (J.) 
September  17,  (J.) 
628. — Poimits  v.  Albertsz  and  another. 

The  Supreme  Court  concurs  fully  in  the  opi- 
nion of  the  Distiict  Court  as  to  the  right  of  the 
respondent  to  recover  her  share  of  the  property 
in  dispute.  But  it  appears  that  the  land  has 
been  built  upon  by  a  purchaser  from  her  co-heir 
the  first  appellant,  under  a  title  which  there  were 
certainly  very  strong  grounds,  owing  to  respon- 
dent's own  laches,  for  their  believing  valid.  It 
conceives  therefore  that  the  equity  of  the 
principle  laid  down  in  Van  Leeuwen  p.  190,  and 
acted  Upon  by  this  Court  in  other  cases  since  the 
Promulgation  of  the  Charter,  applies  here,  and 
that  a  full  indemnification  in  money  for  her  share 
of  the  said  property  is  all  that  the  respondent 
can  expect  or  be  permitted  to  recover.  On  these 
grounds  that  part  of  the  decree  appealed  from 
by  which  a  specific  portion  of  the  land  in  dispute  has 
been  adjudged  to  the  respondent,  is  set  aside,  and 
in  lieu  thereof  it  is  ordered  that  a  commission 
of  three  persons,  one  to  be  named  by  respondent, 
another  by  appellants,  and  the  third  by  the  Dis- 
trict Court,  do  proceed  to  the  spot  and  there 
enquire  and  report  upon  the  value  of  the  whole 
of  the  piece  of  ground  formerly  belonging  to 
the  common  ancestor  of  respondent  and  first 
appellant,  exclusive  of  the  value  of  the  house 
built  by  Mr.  Be  Quaker  thereon ;  and  that  the 
present  proceedings  with  the  Commissioners' 
report  be  then  remitted  back  to  this  Court. — [No. 
2893,  D.  0.  Colombo.  (/.) 

November  6,  (O.  J.) 

629. — Gamegey  Elias  v.  Bala  Etfsnu  and  others. 

It  is  ordered  that  this  case  be  referred  back  with 


[  283   ] 


18.19 


directions  tliat  the  District  Court  receive  evi- 
dence forthwith  of  the  attempt  to  tamper  with 
the  appellants'  witness,  as  stated  by  the  said  ap- 
pellants in  their  Petition  of  Appeal ;  and  that  it 
do  further  forward  the  evidence  and  proceedings 
against  the  plaintiff  for  prompting  his  first  wit- 
ness, as  also  stated  in  the  Petition  of  Appeal, 
together  with  such  further  evidence  on  the  merits 
as  either  party  may  think  fit  to  adduce. 

The  Supreme  Court  observes  that  marginal 
observations  have  been  made  on  one  of  its  own 
decrees  in  the  Eegistry  of  the  District  Court, 
which  would  tend  to  show  that  the  Supreme  Court 
was  in  error  on  the  points  to  which  these  notes 
refer.  This  is  a  proceeding  equally  irregular 
and  indecorous.  The  Supreme  Court  will  always 
willingly  receive  suggestions  submitted  in  due 
form  from  any  quarter  calculated  to  correct  any 
of  its  opinions  on  points  of  fact ;  but  a  course  of 
this  kind  it  cannot  but  record  its  disapprobation 
of. 

MaUepaUe,  as  defined  by  the  best  authority  on 
the  subject,  Bertolacci,  "  is  land  that  was  for- 
"  merly  granted  under  a  tenure,  subject  to  per- 
"  sonal  services  to  Government ;  and  which  has 
"reverted  to  Government  through  failure  of  male 
"  issue  to  perform  those  services,"  and  that  is  the 
case  here.  "Nillepalle  land,"  he  adds,  "was  grant- 
'■ed  under  the  same  tenure  as  the  '^  Mcdlepalle, 
"  and  which  has  reverted  to  Government  in  con- 
"  sequence  of  the  holders  having  failed  to  per- 
"  form  the  services  to  which  they  were  bound  by 
"that  tenure,"  which  is  entirely  foreign  to  the 
present  subject.  The  duty,  if  strictly  enforced  is 
undoubtedly  one-half  as  stated  by  Bertolacci ; 
but  this  amount  is  in  fact  often  reduced  to  less, 
it  being  the  practice  to  treat  them  frequently  in 
the  same  way  as  Batmaherre  when  these  lands 
are  cultivated  by  consent  of  Government. — \_Nu. 
2317,  D.  C.  Galle.    (J.) 


Appeal  oii 
thegroundthat 
the  appellant's 
witnesses  were 
tampered  with. 


Marginal  ob- 
servations by 
D.  J.  on  the  S. 
C.  decree. 


MaZUpalh  de- 
fined. 


November  23. 


[The  Hon'ble  John  Godpried  Hillbbrand  Esq. 
was  sworn  in  as  Adlmj  Bccond  Puisne  Jutike.'] 


1839 


A,  D.  0.  can- 
not give  Judg- 
ment ultra  fe- 
tita. 


1840 


The  Court 
■will  reject  an. 
ill-written  libel 


In  trespass, 
where  a  Deft 
sets  up  the  title 
of  a  third  par- 
ty, the  Court 
is  not  bound  to 
make  him  a 
party,  unless 
he  chooses  to 
intervene. 


[   284    ] 

November.  27,  (O.  J.  H.) 

630. — Moorger  v.  Wallial. 

Ther  only  demand  before  the  Court  was  for  the 
bond  filed  by  plaintiff.  The  defendant's  bond  was 
only  put  in  evidence  without  his  making  any  re- 
conventional  demand  for  the  amount.  The  Dis- 
trict Court  went  therefore  beyond  its  powers  when 
it  pronounced  a  claim  invalid  which  was  not  in 
suit  before  it.  The  decree  is  in  consequence 
affirmed,  in  that  the  bond  filed  by  plaintiff  is  set 
aside  and  his  action  dismissed ;  but  in  all  other 
respects  the  said  decree  is  annulled,  the  Court 
having  pronounced  ultra  petita.  Each  party  will 
bear  its  costs. — [No.  2127,  D.  C.  Wadimioratchy. 
(Coll.; 

January  15,  1840  (0.) 

631. — Coder  v.  Batteralle. 

The  plaintiff's  libel  is  so  ill-written  and  full  of 
interlineations  and  blots  that  it  must  be  taken 
off  the  proceedings,  and  a  fair  copy  put  on  :  the 
expences  to  be  paid  by  the  plaintiff's  Proctor 
INo.  9575,  D.  C.  Badmlla.'] 

February  1, 

[The   Hon'ble  Wm.   Ogle    Carr   Esquire  was 

sworn  in  as  Acting  Senior  Puisne  Justice.'} 

April  8,  (H.) 

632. — Gomes  v.  Bomingo  and  others. 

It  does  not  appear  to  the  Supreme  Court  that 
the  title  to  the  land  is  just  now  in  dispute,  in- 
asmuch as  the  defendants  do  not  claim  title  to  it, 
or  to  any  portion  thereof,  either  in  their  own 
rights  or  under  the  first  defendant's  father.  If 
Don  BastioM  Appoo  is  entitled  to  half  of  the  land 
as  is  asserted  by  his  son  the  first  defendant,  it 
should  be  left  to  him  either  to  intervene  or  not 
in  this  case,  as  he  shall  be  best  advised ;  but  there 
is  no  necessity  for  the  Court  ex-offiaio,  so  render 
him  a  party  to  this  case,  particularly  as  it  is 
merely  a  case  of  trespass  to  the  establishing  of 


[  285  [ 


1840 


vliifli,  the  possession  at  the  time  of  the  trespass 
complained  of  forms  the  chief  ingredient,  but  not 
the  title  to  the  land.  It  is  therefore  ordered 
that  the  Interlocutory  order  of  the  District  Court 
of  Colombo  No.  2.  dated  11th  of  February  1840 
he  reversed. — [No.  6015,  D.  C-  Colombo.'\ 

April  15th  (H.) 

633. — Selenchy  Ajipoo  v.  Salman  another. 

The  Applicant  having  totally  failed  to  put  on 
record  his  reasons  for  ajiplying  for  Letters  of 
Administration  to  the  estate  of  his  deceased 
father  who  died  according  to  his  own  admission, 
about  fifty  years  since,  and  there  being  also  reason 
to  suppose  from  the  circumstance  of  the  length 
of  time  that  had  intervened  and  from  the  state- 
ment of  the  Opponents  that  the  property  which 
the  deceased  died  possessed  of,  has  been  divided 
amongst  his  respective  heirs  and  that  they  and 
their  heirs  or  others  on  their  behalf  have  been  in 
the  possession  of  the  same  ever  since  that  time, — 
It  is  ordered  that  the  decretal  order  of  the  District 
Court  of  Colombo  be  reversed  with  costs. — [No. 
255,  D.  C.  Colombo.^ 

634. — Hendrich  Ferera  v.  Bines  Appoo. 

Where  the  D.  C.  omitted  to  record  the  ground 
upon  which  its  decision  was  based  the  S.  C.  re- 
ferred back  the  case  to  supply  the  omission. — [No. 
25,569  D.  C.  Colomho.  S.] 

At  Chambers  (H.) 
635. — Joan  and  another  v.  Arma  and  others. 

"Where  it  appeared  that  the  Appellant's  failui-e 
to  file  the  Petition  of  Appeal  in  due  time  was 
in  consequence  of  the  adjournment  of  the  D.  C. 
during  the  Session  of  the  S.  C.  held  that  the  Ap- 
peal was  to  be  allowed  on  the  Appellant  giving  the 
required  security.— [xVo.  1258,  T).  C  Ainblan- 
'jodJe.'] 


Application 
for  Adminis- 
tration reject- 
ed, whore  it 
appeared  that 
the  deceased 
had  died  about 
50  years  ago, 
and  the  pro- 
perty been  di- 
vided amongst 
the  heirs. 


The  course 
adopted  where 
the  D.  C.  om- 
itted to  record 
the  reasons  of 
its  Judgment. 


The  course 
adopted  where 
an  Appellant's 
failure  to  ap- 
peal was  ow- 
ing to  the  ad- 
journment of 
the  D.  C. 


lt*40 


L  m;  ] 


Injunction 
refused  for 
want  of  proof 
of  title. 


April  23,  (H.) 

636. — Jai/eiranleite  Modliar  v.  Seneu-iiutae  Appoo 

Hamy  and  others. 

Judgment. — It  does  not  appear  to  the  S.  C. 
that  the  ground  set  forth  in  the  application  of 
the  plaintiff  is  sufficient  to  entitle  him  to  the 
Injunction  applied  for,  particularly  as  he  has 
failed  to  make  an  averment  of  his  title  to  the 
land  in  dispute  and  of  the  matter  contained  in 
his  application  and  also  to  shew  by  the  oath  or 
affidavit  of  any  third  person  that  the  matter  set 
forth  in  his  application  is  true,  to  the  best  of  his 
belief — The  Interlocutory  order  of  the  D.  C.  of 
Chilaw  and  Putlam  is  therefore  affirmed. — [_No. 
7765,  D.  C  GUlaw  and  Putlam.^ 

637. — VapoecaTido  v  Wagamoettoe  and  another. 

Interlocutory  order  set  aside,  and  the  case  re- 
ferred back  to  the  Court  below  to  be  proceeded 
with,  as  the  poverty  or  insolvency  of  the  plaintiff 
furnishes  no  ground  to  compel  him  to  find  se- 
curity for  costs.  Besides  all  applications  of  this 
nature  ought  to  be  made  at  an  early  stage  of  the 
case,  which  however  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  observed  in  this  instance. — [^Sfo.  5497  D.  C. 
Jaffna,'] 

May  6,  (H.) 

638. — G.  Louis  v.  Yattamalagala  G.  Andris. 

The    Court        Interlocutory  order  set  aside,  it  having  been 
survey  at  any    made   at  too  early   a  stage  of  the  case — If  the 
time  after  the    Court  should  consider  after  the  filing  of  the  list 
ListofWitness-    of  witnesses,  that  a  survey  is  ahsolutely  neces- 
filed'*'^    *'^™    ®*^'y  *°  come   to  a  satisfactory   decision  of  the 
case,  it  is  perfectly  at  liberty  to  make  an  order 
to  that  effect,  care  being  taken  to  direct  the  wit- 
nesses on  both  sides  to  be  present  at  the  survey, 
in  order  to  enable  than  to  speak  when  they  come 
to  give  their  evidence,  with  precision  and  accuracy 
with  respect  to  the  boundary,  extent  and  posses- 
sion of  the  land. 

An  application  on  the  part  of  the  plaintiff 
praying-    to  fcummon   the  vendor  of  the   land  to 


The  pover- 
ty of  the  Pit. 
furnishes  no 
ground  to 

compel  him  to 
find  security 
for  costs. 


[  287   ] 


1840 


warrant  and  defend  Lis  title,  is  appended  to  this 
case ;  but  no  record  is  however  made  of  it ;  if 
it  be  an  omission  it  should  be  rectified,  and  the 
application,  which  appears  to  be  a  legitimate  one, 
disposed  of.— [JVo.  6933,  D.  0.  GalU,'] 

639. — Don  Adrian  v.  lAwne  Appowe  and  others. 
The  D.  C.  non-suited  the  plaintiff  because  he 
had  failed  to  summon  certain  witnesses,  who  in 
the  opinion  of  the  Court  were  absolutely  neces- 
sary to  prove  certain  payments  made  by  him  to 
the  Record  Keeper.  Held,  that  the  decision  was 
premature  and  it  ought  to  be  set  aside.  Per  Hille- 
BRAND  J. — The  claim  of  the  pLiintifif  consisted 
of  two  items,  and  the  ground  of  non-suit  had 
reference  to  one  only ;  and  also  because  the 
Court  ought  not  to  have  anticipated  that  the 
plaintiff  would  not  have  availed  himself  of  the 
right  allowed  him  by  the  28th  clause  of  the 
Smles  and  Orders  Sect.  1.  and  examined  the 
Record  Keeper  and  Secretary,  both  officers  of  the 
Court,  although  not  regularly  summoned. — [^No. 
6765,  D.  0.  Oalle.'\ 

640. — Happooarachigey  Von  Gabriel  Appoo.  v. 
Pedro  Silva. 


The  Court 
cannot  non- 
suit a  Pit, 
merely  because 
he  had  not 
s  umm  oned 
certain  wit- 
nesses. 

A  witness 
may  be  called 
and  examined, 
though  not 
summoned. 


The  facts  of  this  ca=e  are  fully  set  out  in  the 
Judgment,  which  is  as  follows  : 

This  is  a  case  of  some  importance,  not  only 
on  account  of  the  parties  themselves  who  are  Na- 
tive Merchants,  but  also  on  account  of  the  magni- 
tude of  the  amount,  which  it  involves. 

The  facts  of  the  case  as  detailed  in  the  plead- 
ings are  shortly  these. 

The  defendant  in  the  course  of  his  mercantile 
transactions  with  the  plaintiff,  which  must  have 
been  very  entensive  became  in  arrear  and  indebt- 
ed to  the  plaintiff,  in  the  sum  of  £374.  9.  3 J  for 
which  he  granted  his  personal  bond  dated  20th 
September  1838  payable  in  four  monthly  instal- 
ments. 

In  compliance  with  the  terms  of  this  bond,  the 
defendant  paid  £  150,  but  as  he  had  made  de- 


1.  A  Plain 
tiff  cannot  sue 
out  execution 
after  taking 
the  Defen- 
dant's bond 
for  a  part  of 
the  judgment 
in  satisfaction 
of  the  whole. 

2.  Proofof 
actual  deli- 
very of  the 
bond  is  not  ne- 
cessary, where 
a  constructive 
delivery  has 
been  proved. 

3.  The  Su- 
preme    Court 


1840 


[  288  ] 


will  under  cer- 
tain circum- 
stances stay 
executi  o  n 

pending      ap-     COStS. 


fault  in  the  payment  of  the  residue,  the  bond  was 
put  in  suit  and  judgment  recovered,  on  the  21st 
June    1839   for   the   balance   sum,   interest   and 


On  the  8th  November,  the  plaintiff  sued  out 
execution  against  the  effects  of  the  defendant  for 
the  sum  of  £224-9-3|  in  satisfaction  of  the  judg- 
ment, and  by  force  thereof,  a  house  of  the  defen- 
dant situated  at  Kandy  has  been  seized  by  the 
Fiscal  of  that  Province,  but  the  precise  date  of 
the  seizure,  does  not  however  appear,  nor  is  it 
material ;  but  this  Court  is  inclined  to  believe 
that  it  was  sometime  before  the  20th  of  Decem- 
ber, as  the  writ  was  returnable  on  that  day.  From 
this  time  till  the  22nd  of  April  the  writ  remained 
in  suspense  or  abeyance,  when  on  the  motion  of 
the  plaintiff's  Counsel,  it  was  re-issued  to  the 
Fiscal  of  the  Western  Province,  who  seized  a  cer- 
tain sum  of  money  in  the  hands  of  Messrs.  Wil- 
son Archer  and  Co.,  but  the  amount  however  is 
not  stated  by  the  return  to  the  writ. 

On  the  24th  of  April  the  defendant  filed  an  ap- 
plication, setting  forth  that,  in  consideration  of 
the  sum  of  £75  paid  by  him  to  the  plaintiff  in 
satisfaction  of  the  judgment,  he  had  remitted  to 
him  £24-0-5|  and  consented  to  accept  his  bond 
for  the  balance  sum  of  £160-10-0  payable  in  one 
year  with  interest,  and  that  a  bond  for  that  amount 
containing  those  conditions,  prepared  by  Mb. 
Deiebekg  the  Notary,  at  the  plaintiffs  express  de- 
sire, was  executed  by  him  in  his  name,  but  whe- 
ther the  plaintiff  was  to  perform  any  and  what 
condition  on  his  part,  beyond  the  remission  afore- 
said is  not  stated  ;  but  it  is  to  be  implied  from 
the  nature  of  the  agreement  between  the  parties 
that  he  was  to  enter  satisfaction  of  the  judgment, 
or  to  grant  a  release,  otherwise  he  would  have  two 
securities  or  payments,  for  one  debt.  The  defen- 
dant then  goes  on  to  state  that  notwithstanding 
the  premises,  the  plaintiff  subsequently  to  wit  on 
the  22nd  of  April  took  out  execution  against  his 
effects,  and  that  it  was  then  in  progress  against 
his  property  and  that  part  of  it  had  already  been 


[  289  J  1840 

seized  by  the  Fiscal  of  Colombo ;  and  -therefore 
prayed  that  the  writ  might  be  recalled  and  can- 
celled. 

This  application  being  filed,  supported  as  it  was 
by  the  affirmalion  of  the  defendant  and  the  affi- 
davit of  a  third  person,  as  far  as  regards  the  exe- 
cution of  the  bond,  the  District  Court  ordered  on 
the  24th  of  April,  the  execution  to  be  stayed  till 
further  order,  and  a  Rule  Nisi  to  issue  to  the 
plaintiff. 

On  the  day  the  rule  was  returnable,  which  was 
on  the  28th  of  April,  the  plaintiff  or  rather  his 
Counsel  appeared  before  the  Court ;  but  instead 
of  shewing  cause  or  taking  time  to  do  so,  com- 
menced examining  the  defendant ;  at  the  conclu- 
sion of  which,  the  District  Court,  on  his  motion 
discharged  the  order  for  the  stay  of  execution, 
and  sentenced  the  defendant  moreover,  to  one 
■  month's  imprisonment,  on  the  ground  that  he  had, 
as  is  stated,  attempted  by  his  averment  and  affir- 
mation to  deceive  and  mislead  the  Court. 

Against  this  order  and  sentence,  the  defendant 
interposed  an  appeal  and  the  case  was  called  on 
for  hearing  on  the  29th  of  April,  but  it  was  or- 
dered to  stand  over  for  this  day,  the  Counsel  for 
the  plaintiff  stating  to  the  Court  that  he  had  no 
notice  of  the  appeal  and  was  consequently  unpre- 
pared to  argue  the  case. 

Whilst  the  Court  indulged  the  plaintiff  in  the 
postponement  of  the  case,  it  took  care  to  prevent 
the  commission  of  an  irreparable  injury  in  the 
interim,  by  ordering  on  the  motion  of  the  defen- 
dant's Counsel,  the  execution  to  be  stayed  till 
further  order;  and  the  Court  also  ordered  the 
defendant  to  be  discharged,  as  it  appeared  to  it, 
upon  the  first  blush  of  the  case,  that  the  District 
Jttdge  in  his  anxiety  to  do  justice  between  party 
and  party,  had  fallen  into  an  error,  by  not  being 
much  familiar  with  the  dealings  of  Native  Mer- 
chants. 

It  is  contended  by  the  defendant's  Counsel  that 
the  plaintiff  has  no  right  to  enforce  the  writ 
against  him,  inasmuch  as  he  has  paid  him  through 
Mb.  Ritchie's    Conicoply  the  sum  of  £75    and 


iMO  [  290  ] 

executed  a  Bond  in  his  name  for  the  halance  sum 
of  £160-10-0  in  tenns  of  the  agreement.  Of 
the  fact  of  the  execution  of  the  bond  there  cannot 
be  the  slightest  doubt,  as  the  plaintiff  himself 
through  his  Counsel  admitted  it  before  the  Dis- 
trict Court.  What  right  then  the  plaintiff  had 
after  that  to  refuse,  as  he  says  he  did,  to  receive 
it,  and  to  enforce  the  writ  against  the  defendant's 
property,  this  Court  cannot  conceive.  The  defen- 
dant to  a  question  pointedly  put  to  him  certainly 
stated  that  the  bond  was  not  delivered  by  him 
to  the  plaintiff,  this  question  was  proposed  with 
with  a  view  no  doubt,  to  shew  that  the  bond 
although  executed,  had  not  been  delivered  to  the 
plaintiff,  which  is  certainly  necessary  according 
to  the  English  Law,  whatever  it  may  be  by  the 
Roman-Dutch  Law ;  but  that  Law  even  does  not 
require  a  formal  delivery  ;  circumstances  equivalent 
to  it  are  sufficient;  as  a  deed  may  be  delivered 
cither  by  actual  delivery  or  by  words,  or  acts 
equivalent  to  a  delivery.  The  question  therefore 
is,  whether  the  facts  appearing  in  this  case 
amount  to  a  delivery  ?  The  plaintiff  admitted 
before  the  District  Court  that  he  refused  to  re- 
ceive the  bond,  which  shews  clearly  that  it  must 
have  been  delivered  to  him  by  words  or  acts 
equivalent  to  a  delivery,  otherwise  he  could  not 
have  declined  to  receive  it.  The  statement  of  the 
defendant  when  he  says  that  he  did  not  deliver 
the  bond  to  the  plaintiff,  must  therefore  betaken 
or  construed  to  apply  to  the  actual,  but  not  to  the 
constructive  or  circumstantial  delivery.  Upon  this 
and  other  circumstances  this  Court  is  satisfied 
that  there  was  a  delivery  of  the  bond.  This 
brings  the  Court  to  the  question,  whether  the 
plaintiff  supposing  the  £75  had  not  been  paid 
him,  as  he  alleges  he  was  not,  had  a  right  to  en- 
force the  writ  against  the  defendant  after  he  had, 
as  already  said,  executed  and  delivered  his  bond 
to  him  and  thus  performed  part  of  his  agreement  ? 
This  Court  is  disposed  to  think  not,  as  the  par- 
ties cannot  be  placed  in  the  exact  situation  in 
which  they  respectively  stood,  when  the  agreement 
was  entered  into,  and  aUo  because  there  is  no 
right  vested  in   the  plaintiff  by  the  agreement 


[  291    ]  iH4n 

(as  far  as  the  Court  can  collect  from  the  facts  in 
the  case)  to  rescind  it,  by  him  alone,  without  the 
concurrence  of  the  defendants.  Besides  if  the 
plaintiff  were  allowed  to  proceed  with  the  writ,  it 
would  be  a  fraud  on  Me.  Ritchie's  Conicoply, 
who  with  a  view  of  preventing  defendant's  pro- 
perty from  being  sold  and  his  person  immured 
within  four  walls  at  least  for  the  space  of  one 
year,  undertook  and  promised  the  plaintiff,  to 
pay  him  £75,  but  whether  he  did  so  or  not  in 
point  of  fact,  is  a  point  for  evidence ;  bnt  there 
are  however  circumstances  in  the  case  as  will  be 
noticed  presently,  which  impress  the  Court  with  a 
belief  that  if  the  payment  had  not  been  made,  the 
plaintiff  had  at  least  accorded  time  for  it,  or  sus- 
pended his  right  for  a  while. 

In  the  course  of  tho  argument  it  has  been  said 
by  the  plaintiffs  Counsel  that  the  payment  of 
£75  was  a  condition  precedent,  thereby  intending 
to  convey  to  the  Court  that  it  ought  to  have 
preceded  the  remission  promised  by  him  and  the 
execution  of  the  bond  by  the  defendant,  and  even 
if  it  were  so  that  would  not  in  the  least  alter  the 
case,  because  it  is  not  denied  by  the  plaintiff  that 
Mr.  Ritchie's  Conicoply  promised  and  undertook 
to  pay  him  the  sum  of  £75  and  that  he  has  con- 
sented and  agreed  to  receive  it  from  him,  and 
what  is  more,  he  himself  directed  the  Notary  to 
prepare  the  bond  for  the  defendant's  signature, 
which  leads  the  Court  to  suppose  that  the  plain- 
tiff, has  either  been  paid  by  Me.  Ritchie's  Coni- 
coply or  that  he  has  given  him  time  to  do  so,  or 
that  he  has  at  least  waived  his  right  to  receive 
the  payment  before  the  execution  of  the  bond  and 
the  remission  of  £24-3-3|. 

But  although  in  point  of  fact  the  payment  had 
not  been  made  by  Me.  RricniE's  Conicoply,  still 
that  would  not  entitle  the  plaintiff  to  consider  the 
agreement  at  an  end  and  to  treat  it  as  wholly  de- 
t3rmined,  as  the  defendant  had  performed  part  of 
it  and  the  parties  cannot  consequently,  as  already 
said,  be  put  in  statu  quo,  his  remedy  therefore  was 
(after  due  notice  of  such  default  of  the  defendant, 
which  however  does  not  appear  to  have  been  the 


184(.  I  292  ] 

case)  an  action  for  compensation  in  damage  for 
such  default,  or  to  enforce  the  writ  for  the  £75^ 
after  suggesting  on  the  record  of  the  Court,  all 
the  circumstances  of  the  case  if  there  were  no- 
thing to  the  contrary  in  the  agreement,  either 
expressed  or  implied,  which  this  Court  at  present 
is  unable  to  judge,  from  the  whole  facts  of  the 
case  not  being  before  it,  which  is  mainly  to  be 
attributed  to  the  line  of  procedure  or  defence 
adopted  by  the  plaintiff. 

It  is  admitted  by  the  Coimsel  for  the  plaintiff 
that  the  District  Court  was  perfectly  justified 
tipon  the  facts  laid  before  it,  to  order  as  it  did, 
the  stay  of  execution  till  further  order,  if  so, 
what  is  there  in  the  answers  given  by  the  defen- 
dant while  under  examination,  to  justify  it  to  re- 
scind it,  the  plaintiff's  Counsel  says  the  District 
Court  disbelieved  the  defendants  statement  in 
toto ;  but  how  could  that  be  when  the  plaintiff 
himself  through  his  Counsel  admitted  before  it  a 
part  of  that  very  statement,  namely,  the  direction 
given  by  him  to  the  Notary  to  prepare  the  bond 
and  the  execution  of  it  by  the  defendant.  If  the 
District  Court  disbelieved  any  part  of  the  defen- 
dant's statement  it  must  have  been  that  part  only, 
where  he  speaks  of  the  payment  of  £75  to  plain- 
tiff, because  in  his  examination  he  stated  that 
Mr.  Eitchie's  Conicoply  undertook  to  pay  it  for 
him,  but  that  he  was  unaware  whether  he  did  so 
or  not ;  but  this  Court  cannot  see  any  very  ma- 
terial difference  in  these  two  statements,  because 
the  defendant  might  have  had  reason  to  believe, 
as  will  be  stated  presently  that  Mr.  Eitchie's 
Conicoply  had  paid  the  £75  according  to  his  pro- 
mise and  undertaking,  although  in  point  of  fact 
he  was  not  aware  of  it  at  the  time  of  his  examina- 
tion. If  the  District  Court  had  any  doubt  upon 
the  subject,  as  it  appears  it  had,  the  course  to  be 
pursued  for  it  was,  to  allow  the  case  to  go  to  evi- 
dence ;  but  not  to  dissolve  its  order  for  the  stay 
of  execution,  and  sentence  the  defendant  to  one 
month's  imprisonment  as  it  did.  This  leads  the 
Court  to  the  question,  whether  there  is  any 
thing  in  the  application  filed  by  the  defendant 


[  293    ]  1840 

Gontrasted   with   his    answers   to   call   forth   the 
punishment   awarded   against   him  by   the   Dis- 
trict Court?     This  Court  is   inclined   to  think 
not,  because   according  to   the    dealings  between 
the  Native  Merchants  here,  to  which  class  the 
parties  belong,  an  undertaking  and  promise  of  a 
third  pel  son,  as  in  this  case,  to  pay  the  debt  of 
the  defendant  to  the  plaintiff,    and  his    under- 
taking to  receive  it  from  him  (which  it  appears 
the  plaintiff  did  from  the  question  proposed  by 
him  to  the  defendant)  are  considered  equivalent 
to  actual  payment  (but  whether  such  an  under- 
taking can  be  enforced  in  Law,  is  a  question  which 
much  depend  upon  the  merits  of  each  case,  and 
upon  which  this  Court  will  express  no  opinion 
as  it  is  now  not  called  upon  to   do  so)  and  con- 
Bequently  when  he  instructed  his  Counsel  to  draw 
his  application  he  without  entering  into  any  de- 
tail, merely  stated  to  him  that  he   paid  to  the 
plaintiff  £75  not  liowever  with  an    intention  to 
mislead  and  deceive  the  District  Court,  as  it  was 
led  erroneously  to  believe,  but  from  a   conscien- 
tious belief  that   such  undertaking  to   pay   and 
consent  to  receive  was  equivalent  to   an  actual 
payment. 

As  the  fact  placed  on  the  record  are  imperfect, 
it  is  quite  clear,  and  it  is  also  admitted  by  the 
plaintiffs  Counsel  that  the  case  must  be  remitted 
to  the  District  Court  for  hearing  ;  but  it  is  con- 
tended by  him  that  there  is  no  evidence  before 
the  Court  to  authorize  it  to  continue  the  order  for 
the  stay  of  execution  ;  but  this  Court  is  satisfied 
that  the  facts  appearing  in '  the  case,  are  quite 
sufficient  to  justify  it  to  continue  the  order  till 
hearing ;  a  contrary  direction  would  be  attended 
with  very  great  mischief,  the  defendant's  property 
will  be  sold,  his  credit  ruined,  he  himself  perhaps 
incarcerated,  while  the  District  Court  is  enquir- 
ing whether  the  plaintiff  is  entitled  to  his  execu- 
tion or  not,  and  if  it  should  turn  out  that  he 
had  not,  and  he  in  the  mean  time  happens  to 
die,  or  turn  a  bankrupt,  the  defendant  will,  be 
with  ut  any  remedy  whatever ;  on  the  other 
hand,  the  suspense  of  the  execution  for  a  time, 


184n  [   294    ] 

will  not  be  attended  with  equal  prejudice,  particu- 
lary  as  the  property  of  the  defendant  has  already 
been  seized  under  the  writ. 

It  is  therefore  ordered  that  the  decree  and  sen- 
tence of  the  District  Court  of  Colombo  of  the 
28th  of  April  last  be  reversed  and  the  case 
remanded  to  the  Court  below  for  hearing  with 
direction  to  stay  the  execution  still  such  hearing. 
The  costs  to  abide  the  ultimate  decision  of  the 
case.— [No.  24,601,  D.  G.  Colombo,  S.] 

May  13,  (H). 
641. — Janis  Fernando  v.  Joseph  Piris. 


Rule    as    to 


Prevarication. 


If  the  plaintiff  had  proved  his  case,   as  in  the 
Costs  in  Slan-    Opinion  of  the  District  Court  it  appears  he  has,  in 
der  cases;  and    which  opinion  however  this  Court  cannot  agree, 
as  to  Fine  for    ^\^Q  District  Court  would  have  been  perfectly  jus- 
""  tified  in  awarding  the  amount  of  damages  claim- 

ed by  him,  or  such  portion  thereof,  as  in  its  opi- 
nion he  was  entitled  to  have  for  the  injury  sus- 
tained by  him  at  the  defendant's  hands ;  and  even 
if  he  had  failed  for  want  of  sufficient  proof  the 
Court  would  have  been  fully  warranted  to  award 
him  his  costs,  if  it  were  satisfied  that  the  impro- 
per conduct  of  the  defendant  gave  rise  to  the  ac- 
tion, and  the  justice  of  the  case  demanded  it ;  but 
the  29th  Clause  of  the  Rules  and  Orders  Section. 
I.  does  not  authorize  the  condemning  a  defendant 
to  pay  plaintiffs  costs,  or  any  sum  of  money  to 
the  Crown,  merely  because  the  plaintiff  has  evin- 
ced no  vindictive  or  improper  feelings.  The  re- 
cited Clause  only  subjects  a  party  to  pay  costs  or 
fine,  which  the  Court  may  think  proper  to  award, 
if  he  by  his  answers  attempted  to  mislead  and 
deceive  it ;  but  no  such  thing  is  imputed  to  the 
defendant  here,  and  even  if  it  were,  the  Supreme 
Court  would  not  have  felt  itself  justified  to  affirm 
it,  as  it  cannot  ascertain  to  what  part  the  obser- 
vation has  reference,  and  as  the  defendant  has 
been  examined  upon  facts  which  form  no  part  of 
the  slanderous  words  laid  to  his  charge  in  the 
libel,  and  upon  which  no  verdict  could  have  been 
found  against  him. 


[  296  J 


IMU 


Decree  of  the  District  Court  reversed  in  so  far 
as  it  condemns  the  defendant  to  pay  plaintiff  a 
8um  equal  to  his  costs,  and  the  sum  to  the 
Crown.— [JVb.  25,868,  D.  C  Colombo,  S.J 

May  20,  (H), 
642. — Meera  Lebhe  v,  Seesma  Lehhe. 

The  decree  in  this  case  is  not  founded  upon  the  Best  Evidence, 
best  evidence  which  the  nature  of  the  case  admits 
of.  It  stands,  moreover,  upon  the  testimony  of 
one  single  witness,  unsupported  hj  any  other  evi- 
dence, although  it  was  capable  of  corroboration. 
The  a'k'ged  purchase  aud  receipt  of  articles  by 
thi'  defendant,  took  place, — if  the  witness  is  to  be 
believed, — at  the  plaintiff's  shop,  aud  yet  his 
sliopraan  who  is  the  best  or  primary  evidence  has 
not  been  called,  nor  his  Journal  or  Waste-Book 
produced  in  support  of  it,  or  their  abRence  ac- 
counted for.  The  decree  of  the  District  Court  ia 
therefore  reversed. — [JVo.  28,190,  D.  C.  Golmnbo, 
N.] 

May  30,  (O.  C.  H.) 

643. — Weregalle  Mohotta  v.  Weregalle  Peruma. 

This  case  was  referred  back  to  the  D.  C.  to  take 
evidence  on  the  following  j)oint  laid  down  in 
Sawer's  Treatise  : — "  The  father  is  not  the  heir 
of  the  property  of  his  children  born  in  a  Beena 
marriage,  which  they  have  acquired  through 
their  mother.  The  maternal  uncles  or  next  of 
kin  on  the  mother's  side  are  the  heirs  to  such 
children."— [JVo.  5807,  D.  C  Seven  Korles.— 
(Coll.) 

June  24,  (H). 

644. — Gader  Lebhe  Issuboo  t.  Andoo  Lebbe 
Markar. 

Where  the  trial  of  a  case  was  postponed  owing 
to  the  absence  of  plaintiff's  Proctor,  and  not  in 
consequence  of  any  fault  on  the  part  of  the  plain- 
tiff, Eeld  that  the  batta  to  defendant's  witnesses, 
if  any,  should  be  paid  by  the  Proctor  and  not  by 
the  plaintiff.— [JVo.  6823,  J).  C  Galle.'] 


The  Father  ia 
not  of  kin  to 
his  Beena  chil- 
dren.    Qu? 


On  a  post 
ponement  in 
consequence  of 
a  Proctor's  ab- 
sence, the  S.  C. 
directed  the 
Proctor  to  pay 
the  batta  of  the 
witnesses. 


1840 


[  296  ] 


The  District 
Judge  cannot, 
without  the 
consent  of  the 
Parties,  a  p- 
poiut  an  Arbi- 
trator or  Um- 
pire. 


Deficiency  of 
Stamp  how 
Bupplied. 


645. — Bon  Philip  v.  C-  Swarne  and  others, 

Although  the  parties  to  a  suit  have  a  right, 
■with  the  concurrence  of  the  Court,  to  refer  their 
differences  to  Arbitration  ;  yet  the  District  Court 
has  no  right  to  delegate  its  authority  to  others 
(as  it  did  in  thi'?  case)  by  appointing  two  Arbitra- 
tors for  and  on  behalf  of  the  Court,  and  by  reserv- 
ing, moreover,  the  right  of  nominating  an  Umpire 
jn  case  the  Arbitrators  named  by  the  Court  and 
the  parties,  should  be  equally  divided  in  opinion  : 
particularly  as  the  parties  have  not  signified  their 
assent  to  it  by  subscribing  the  Record,  containing 
such  order  of  reference.  The  decree  of  the  Dis- 
trict Court  is  set  aside,  and  the  case  remitted  back 
to  the  District  Court  for  hearing,  with  liberty  to 
the  parties  to  enter  into  an  agreement  or  acts  of 
submission  to  refer  the  matter  in  dispute  for  the 
decision  of  such  Arbitration  as  they  may  choose  to 
name ;  and  in  ■which  case  the  agreement  or  sub- 
mission should  be  made  a  Record  of  the  Court 
and  signed  by  the  respective  parties. 

It  should  be  advisable  for  the  parties,  either  to 
name  an  Umpire  at  the  time  of  submission  to  de- 
cide the  question  in  dispute,  in  case  the  Arbitra- 
tors should  differ  in  their  opinion  ;  or  to  vest  the 
Arbitrators  (also  at  the  time  of  the  submission) 
■with  the  power  of  choosing  an  Umpire,  before  they 
enter  into  the  investigation  of  the  matter  in  liti- 
gation.— l_No.  5464,  D.  C  Matum.^ 

July  8,  (H), 

646. — BenJ :  HopTcer  v.  Susanna  W.  Pfdffer. 

The  Ordinance  No.  6  of  1836,  and  the  repealed 
Regulation  No.  4  of  1827  do  not  render  deeds  or 
other  instruments  void,  which  are  not  properly 
stamped,  but  merely  prohibit  such  deeds  or  in- 
struments from  being  given  or  received  in  e^vi- 
dence ;  and  the  9th  Clause  of  the  said  Ordinance 
allows  (as  did  the  18th  Clause  of  the  repealed 
Regulation)  every  deed  or  instrument  insufficient- 
ly stamped  to  have  the  same  duly  stamped  at  any 
time,  on  complying  with  the, requisitions  therein 
stated.     And  as  the  application  to  have  the  dis« 


] 


i»*fp 


pted  instrmnent  properly  stamped  was  made  by 
the  plaintiff  before  it  was  read  or  given  in  evi- 
dence, supported  as  it  was  by  an  affidavit  that 
no  fraud  was  intended ;  and  he  has  likewise  paid 
into  the  Court  the  penalty  fixed  by  the  9th 
Clause  of  the  said  Ordinance,  this  Court  can  see 
no  reason  why  the  application  should  not  be 
granted. 

It  has  been  contended  by  the  deft :  that  the 
Regulation  No.  4  of  1827  ought  to  govern  this 
case,  but  the  Court  is  inclined  to  think  otherwise, 
as  that  Regulation  has  been  repealed  by  the  sub- 
sequent Ordinance  No.  6  of  1836  with  the  ex- 
ception therein  excepted ;  which  exception  how- 
ever does  not  at  all  affect  plaintiff's  case,  save  and 
except  as  to  the  amount  of  stamp  the  instrument 
ought  to  have  been  written  upon,  and  the  annexa- 
tion ot  stamp  to  make  up  such  amount. 

It  has  been  urged  on  the  part  of  the  plaintiff 
(but  which  he  had  no  right  to  do  from  the  line 
of  procedure  adopted  by  him  before  the  Court 
below)  that  the  instrument  bears  a  sufficient  stamp, 
inasmuch  as  there  is  another  stamp  on  the  other 
half  sheet  of  the  same  paper,  on  which  the  instru- 
ment is  written  and  hence  not  annexed  ;  but  this 
Conrt  is  of  opinion  that  according  to  the  19th 
Clause  of  the  said  Regulation  the  instrument  it- 
self must  bear  the  proper  stamp,  which  however 
is  not  the  case  here. 

The  decision  of  the  Court  therefore  is  that  the 
instrument  in  question  is  insufficiently  stamped. — 
[No.  28,096  D.  G.  Colombo,  S.] 

July  15,  (0.  H.) 
647. — W.  Ahamado  v.  C.  M.  Candoo. 

The  Appellant  having  failed  to  take  out  the 
subpcenas  on  the  day  fixed  by  the  District  Court, 
the  latter  imposed  upon  him  the  condition  of  pay- 
ing the  costs  already  incurred  before  he  could 
be  allowed  to  take  them  out.  Held  that  the  Court 
was  not  justified  in  doing  so,  and  Tefr  Hillebrand 
J. — "  The  object  of  the  order  of  the  25th  April  to 
"  cite  the  witnesses  before  the  10th  June  was,  no 
"  doubt,  with  a  view  to  ensure   their  attendance 


Where  e  n 
instrument  ia 
written  on  half 
the  sheet  only, 
it  is  not  suiB- 
cient  that  the 
other  half  sheet 
contains  a 
stamp  equal  to 
the  deficiency. 


Where  a. 
party  fails  to 
issue  subpcenaa 
on  a  day  ap- 
pointed, the 
Conrt  cannot 
impose  condi- 
tions on  his  is- 
suing them  af- 
terwards. 


1640 


[  298   ] 


T  h  e  S.  C. 

will  correct  a 
manifest  error 
in  a  decree  ai- 
re a  d  y  p  r  0- 
nounced. 


Where  a 
party  failed  to 
give  security 
in  appeal 
through  ig- 
norance, the  S. 
C.  allowed  him 
to  do  so  after 
the  limited 
time.'' 


'•  on  the  day  of  trial,  by  timely  service  of  sub- 
"  poenas  on  them,  but  the  object  could  by  no 
"  means  have  been  defeated  by  the  subpoenas  be- 
"  ing  taken  out  to  them  on  the  15th  or  16th  as  the 
"  trial  was  fixed  for  the  25th,  and  the  witnesses  are 
"  living,  as  the  Appellant  says,  (and  which  is  not 
"  contradicted,)  within  one  or  one  and  a  half  mile 
"  from  the  Court. 

"  If  the  witnesses  failed  to  appear  on  the  day 
"  of  trial,  owing  to  the  Appellant's  neglect  to  take 
"  out  subposnas  to  them  in  due  time,  then,  .ind 
"  in  that  ca^e,  the  Court  would  have  been  justi- 
"  fied  to  order  him  to  pay  the  costs  of  the  day, 
"  or  to  make  such  other  order  as  the  nature  and 
"justice  of  the  case  required;  but  it  was  not 
"  warranted  to  order  him,  as  it  did,  to  pay  all  the 
"  costs,  merely  for  an  unimportant  and  perhaps 
"  an  unintentional  neglect  on  his  part." — \_No. 
bde3,D.C.Jafrm.  (H.) 

July  18,  (O.) 
648. — Wapwn^urea  v.  M.  Mudianse. 

Where  it  appeared  that  the  judgment  of  S.  C. 
for  the  plaintiff  was  erroneously  entered  for  one 
animonaui  of  rice,  instead  of  one  ammonam  of 
paddy,  the  fcj.  (J.  ordered  the  Eegistrar  to  amend 
the  fcaid  decree  by  altering  the  -s/urd  "  rice"  inco 
"paddy."-[  No.  1434,  D.  0-  Colombo.] 

August  5,  (H.) 

649. — Don  Ahram  de  Silva  v.   L.  Christian  and 
others. 

Where  the  S.  C.  was  inclined  to  believe  that 
the  Appellant  was  not  aware  that  he  had  to  give 
securities  for  appeal,  it  ordered  that  the  appeal 
be  allowed,  provided  the  Appellant  do  give  the 
requisite  security  within  fourteen  days  after  the 
communication  of  its  order  to  him. — [No.  1034, 
D.  0.  Amblangodde.'] 

August  19,  (H). 

650. — JvMina  Seytan  Admx.  of  A.  Seytan  v. 
L.  Fernando  and  another. 

According  to  the  Roman-Dutch  Law  in  force 


[   299   J 


1840 


in  the  Maritime  Provinces  of  this  Island,  the 
community  of  goods  between  man  and  wife  takes 
place  on  the  completion  of  the  marriage,  unless 
excluded  by  an  Ante-Nuptial  Contract ; — which 
however  does  not  appear  to  have  been  the  case 
here. — A  just  half  of  the  common  property  which 
belonged  to  the  plaintiff's  intestate  and  his  wife 
ought  therefore  to  devolve  on  his  children  ;  hut 
as  he  had  left  :ione,  it  ought  to  go  to  his  other 
heirs  at  law,  or  to  his  legal  representative.  The 
half  belonging  to  his  wife,  who  died  after  her  hus- 
band must  devolve  on  her  daughter,  though  il- 
legitimate.—[m.  5097,  D.  C.  Colombo.'] 


651.. 


September  ]  9,  (C;. 
-Tins  V.  Perera  and  another. 


Dutch  Law 
rule  of  Com- 
munity. 

The  wife's 
half- share  de- 
volves on  her 
children, 
though  illegi- 
timate. 


Under  the  32nd  Rule  of  Section  I,  any  third  par- 
ty may  intervene  at  any  stage  of  a  suit  before  exe- 
cutiun,  but  it  is  a  ijoluvtanj  and  not  a  compulsory 
proceeding  in  the  first  instaiiCi.',  though  after  a 
person  has  oi-ce  intiTvenud,  he  becnmes  amenable 
to  ]irocess  in  defnv/ii  like  other  parties. 

The  iiroper  couv.^e  where  any  vendor  is  required 
to  be  a  party  to  ihe  f  nit  is  'iiot  to  order  him  to 
intcrvere,  but  to  onltr  the  plaintiff'  to  amend  his 
libel  by  making  such  vendor  a  co-defendant,  and 
then  ccmpulsory  proiepp,  in  <'('far.lt  of  appearance 
or  aiis-vvfr,  cm  be  coiTectly  enforced  against  him. 

As  the  Court  also  ought  never  to  make  any 
decree  ^ithf.ut  all  ]jroper  parties  beins?  before  it, 
tbe  defendant  can  always  avail  himself  of  the  ob- 
jection for  w;itt  of  parties,  so  as  to  furce  the 
plaintiff  to  bring  ki.cIi  parlies  before  the  Court. — 
[A'o.  19,557,  B.  G.  Colombo  S.  (C).] 

652. — Juan  Na'Ja  v.  Siman  Silva. 

The  iilaintiff's  Notarial  Bond  though  of  prior 
date,  is  not  entitled  to  be  saii-.Ccd  out  of  the  pro- 
ceeds of  the  land  in  dispute,  in  preference  to  a 
subsequent  special  mortgage  of  sucli  land;  and  if 
the  defendant  proves  that  ho  has  redeemed  the 
whole  mortgage  out  of  his  own  money,  he  is  en- 


A  party  can- 
not be  compell- 
ed to  inter- 
V  e  n  e  ;  but 
where  a  ven- 
dor refuses  to 
intervene  the 
plahitifr  may 
amend  his  li- 
bel ly  making 
him  a  party 
defendant. 


A  special 
Mortgagee  is 
entitled  to  pre- 
ference over  a 
prior  creditor, 
though  hold- 
ing a  ]S'otarial 
Bond. 


16<lo 


[    3U0    J 


A  party 
paying  a  pri- 
or mortgagee 
ia  entitled  to 
stand  in  his 
place  without 
Cession  of  Ac- 
tion. 


Frauds  and 
Perjuries. 

Keg.  No.  1 
of  1806  does 
not  act  retros- 
pectively. 


Mahomedan 
Law. 

A  Husband 
and  Wife  may 
sue  each  other. 
A  Wife  de- 
eerting,may  be 
sued  for  a  n  y 
property  taken 
away  by  her; 
and  forfeits 
her  dowry,  or, 
if  already  paid, 
double  ;  and 
the  Husband 
may  sue  with- 
out first  apply- 
ing  to  the 
Priest  or  Arbi- 
trators. 


titled  to  stand  in.  the  place  of  the  original  mort- 
gagee as  to  the  portion  he  has  bond  fide  paid  on 
behalf  of  the  plaintiff's  debtor,  without  any  Cession 
of  Action,  which  has  been  held  by  the  Supreme 
Court  to  be  unnecessary  in  this  Colony. — [No. 
6679,  D^  C.  Colombo  {C). 

October  3,  (0.  C.  H). 

653. — Meden  Saiboe  v.  Sibra  Saiboe  and  others. 

The  Regulation  No.  1  of  1806  does  not  operate 
retrospectively  and  therefore  cannot  be  pleaded  in 
bar  to  the  present  action,  and  if  it  could  operate 
so  as  to  effect  the  validity  of  the  plaintiff's  deed, 
yet  the  plaintiff  having  set  up  a  prescriptive  title 
should  have  been  allowed  to  prove  such  prescrip- 
tion.— [No.  6218,  J).  C.  Chilaw  and  Putlam 
(Coll). 

654. — Sinne  Meera  Lehbe  v.  Catche  Umma. 

In  this  case  the  Court,  sitting  Collectively,  or- 
dered that  evidence  should  be  admitted  as  to  cer- 
tain points  of  Moorish  Law  and  Custom  viz  ; 

1st.  Whether  a  husband  and  wife  can  recipro- 
cally sue  each  other  ? 

2nd.  What  penalty  a  wife  pays,  who  deserts 
her  husband  and  lives  with  another  man  7 

Whereupon  certain  witnesses  were  duly  sworn 
and  examined,  who  deposed  to  the  following :  — 

1st.  A  husband  or  wife  can  reciprocally  bring 
actions  against  each  other  without  having  been 
previously  divorced. 

2nd.  If  a  wife  run  away  from  her  husband  and 
live  with  another  man,  he  can  bring  an  action 
against  her  to  recover  any  property  of  his  she  may 
have  taken  away  with  her.  The  husband  might 
claim  an  ear-ring  out  of  her  ear  if  it  were  his,  but 
not  the  shift  off  her  back. 

3rd.  The  wife  who  so  runs  away  forfeit  a  sum 
equal  to  the  amount  of  the  dower  ;  that  is  to  say, 
Rix  dollars  forty  in  this  case,  being  the  amount 
stipulated  to  be  paid  by  the  husband.  If  it  has 
been  paid  she  ought  to  forfeit  Rix  dollars  eighty. 


L  301   ] 

4th.  The  husband  may  bring  his  action  for 
this  penalty,  or  for  his  goods  taken  away,  without 
first  going  to  the  Priest  or  Arbitrators. — [A'o. 
8163,  D.  G.  Chilaw  and  Futlam  (Coll). 

October  13,  (O.  C.  H).         • 

655. — Sitter  v.  Wally  and  others. 

The  Court  sitting  Collectirely  ordered  that  evi- 
dence should  be  admitted  as  to  certain  points  of 
Law  and  Custom  arising  in  this  case  viz : 

1st.  As  to  when  a  woman  becomes  a  major, 
»nd  whether  she  can  then  marry  without  her  fa- 
ther and  mother's  consent  ? 

Tlie  following  witnesses  were  duly  sworn  aud 
asamined. 

Nagendre  Ayer. 
8ube  Ayer. 
Ayer  Coorookel, 
who  stated  as  follow ; 

1st.  A  young  woman  becomes  major  at  thir- 
teen. 

2nd.  She  may  then  marry  without  her  father's 
or  mother's  consent. 

3rd.  If  a  man  takes  her  away  by  force,  the 
father  can  bring  an  action  ;  but  not  if  by  her  con- 
sent.—[^'o.  2419,  D.  0.  WaMmorachy  (Coll). 

November  7,  (C). 

656. — Jeronis  Fernando  and  another  v.  Anthony 
Penes. 

This  case  is  referred  back  to  the  Court  below 
to  examine  the  plaintiffs  as  to  the  alleged  offer 
by  defendant  since  the  institution  of  this  suit,  to 
give  a  bond  to  plaintiffs  payable  in  eight  months 
for  the  amount  claimed ;  and  to  take  the  evidence 
of  the  plaintiffs  in  proof  thereof,  and  also  the  de- 
fendant's evidence  to  rebut  the  same.  An  offer  of  a 
Bpecific  sum  by  way  of  compromise  after  an  action 
is  brought  is  admissable  in  evidence,  unless  ac- 
compained  with  a  caution  that  the  offer  is  confi- 


1840 


Jaffaa   Ciu- 

toms. 

A  woman  at- 
tains majori- 
ty at  13,  and 
may  then  mar- 
ry without  the 
Parent's  con- 
sent. 

If  forcibly 
abducted,  the 
father  may  sue. 


An  offer  of 
Compromise, 
unless  accom- 
panied with  a 
caution  that  it 
is  confideiiKal, 
is  admissible 
in  evidence. 


1840  [  302   ] 

dential,  (Wallace  v.  Small,  M.  &  M.  446).  In  the 
present  case  the  offer  is  not  of  a  less  sum  "  to 
buy  peace,"  and  it  is  not  said  to  be  without  pre- 
judice, and  an  offer  to  compromise  may  be  very 
well  made  without  restriction  as  to  confidence. 
The  offar  however  appearing  to  have  been  made 
prior  to  the  filing  of  the  lists  of  witneosea,  the 
plaintiffs  naust  be  restricted  to  the  witnesses 
named  in  their  list,  but  as  the  defendant  cannot 
be  presumed  to  be  equally  prepared  on  the  point, 
he  may  call  additional  evidence  thereon. — [_Ko. 
6511,  D.  G.  Colombo.'] 

December  16,  (0.  C.  H.) 

657. — Aberan  and  others  v.  Pauliis  Be  SUva  and 
another. 

Form  and  The  Order  of  the  4th  September  Ultimo,  thet  the 
S^^PMl'to''  "division  by  the  Mah.i  ViJiiau  of  the  9th  July 
1840  be  made  a  Rule  of  Court,  and  that  ail  pnrties, 
abide  thereby,  be  reverssd  ;  and  the  proceedings 
he  referred  back  to  the  U.  C.  to  issue  a  Com- 
mission to  three  persons  to  ba  ciiosen.  by  the  par- 
ties, or  if  they  cannot  agree  as  to  the  three  per- 
sons, then  each  party  will  select  one  Comrtiission- 
er,  and  a  third  will  be  nominated  by  the  Court; 
and  the  three  Coinmissiouer.s  so  appointed  will 
then  proceed  to  fairly  divide  the  laud  according 
to  the  respective  rights  of  the  |)arties,  and  mark 
out  the  bounds  of  such  division,  antl  report  the 
same  together  with  any  amiunt  which  they  may 
consider  either  party,  should  pay  to  the  other  for 
efualiiy  of  partition  ;  and  if  they  do  not  concur, 
then  the  Commissioners  may  send  in  separate  re- 
ports, and  the  D.  C.  will  after  hearing  the  excep- 
tions of  parties  to  the  same,  decree  such  final  di- 
vision as  it  may  then  see  fit. 

The  D.  C.  appears  to  have  misapprehended  the 
Collective  decree  of  the  8.  0.  which  never  contem- 
plated the  appointment  of  one  Commissioner  with 
such  arbitrary  powers,  as  that  all  objections  of  the 
parties  (provided  he  acted  with  just  intentions) 
were  to  be  wholly  disregarded  both  by  himself  aii4 
the  D.  C.  but  the  order  was  for  him  to  make  a 


i  303  ]  19*0 

jair  division,  of  which  the  Court  of  course  must  be 
the  ultimate  Judge  on  confirming  the  report.  It 
must  be  here  noticed  also  (as  the  omission  tends 
to  mislead)  that  in  the  case  "So.  686  Gdlle,  refer- 
red to  in  the  above  Collective  decree  as  a  preeedeni, 
each  party  was  previouply  declared  therein  by  the 
Court  to  be  entitled,  "  to  one  half  of  the  garden 
on  each  side,  that  is  on  the  Talpe  side,  as  well  as 
the  Dodampe  side,"  and  therefore  all  that  was 
left  by  that  decree  to  be  performed,  was  the  mere 
ministerial  duty  or  manual  labour  of  a  Surveyor 
in  measuring  the  exact  moieties,  and  marking  the 
boundaries  accordingly.  The  S.  C.  does  not  more- 
over clearly  understand  why  the  D.  C.  has  treated 
the  report  of  1838  as  a  nullity,  or  entirely  aban- 
doned, and  issued  an  order  for  a  separate  distinct 
report  without  having  even  heard  and  recorded 
any  exceptions  to  the  first  report. 

It  is  clear  that  the  real  ground  of  dispute  be- 
tween the  parties  is  that  the  Northern  part  'is  the 
best  or  most  productive  portion  of  the  land  as  al- 
leged in  the  defendant's  answer,   and  that  each 
party  wishes  to  secure  it.     The  plaintiff 's  in  their 
survey  appropriated  it  accordingly  to  themselves, 
while  on  the  other  hand,  in  the  report  of  1838  they 
are  entirely  excluded  from  it,  by  their  /gth  being 
wholly  apportioned  on  the   Southern  side.     The 
last  report  endeavours  to  meet  the  above  objection, 
(it  is  presumed,  for  no  specific  reasons  are  alleged 
therein)  by  giving  to  the  plaintiffs  a  portion  out 
of  both  the  Northern  and  Southern  sides.     The 
S.  C.  has  no  doubt  of  the  just  intentions  of  the 
Maha  Vidhan  in  making  such  a  division,  but  it  is 
an  unusual  mode  in  Law  of  making  a  partition,  and 
the  allotment  of  two  distinct  portions  to  the  plain- 
tiffs situated  in  different  extremities  of  the  land 
must  in  all  probability  be  very  prejudicial  to  the 
respective  value  of  the  property  allotted  to  the 
plaintiffs,  and  to  the  defendants,  and  accordingly 
it  is  not  a  fair  division,  not  being  for  the  mutual 
interest  of  both  parties.     If  one  part  of  the  land 
is  more  valuable,  or  productive  than  another,  the 
proper  course  is  that  the  party  taking  such  lot 
should  either  have  a  less  portion,  or  pay  a  sum  to 


iiio 


[  30i   ] 


The  "Go- 
vernment o  f 
Ceylon"  is  not 
a  sufficient 
description  of 
an  Interveni- 
,  ent. 


._     J 


1841 


of 


Statute 
Frauds. 

A  contract 
for  the  sale  of 
growing  tim- 
ber must  be  in 
inciting. 


Force   of 
Judgment     j 
appeal. 


the  other  for  equality  of  partition,  but  care  should 
be  taken  not  to  diminish  the  value  of  both  estates 
by  further  subdivision  of  the  property.  In  the 
same  manner  the  trees  should  be  divided -according 
to  the  respective  estates  and  interests  of  the  par- 
ties, or  if  from  their  situation  or  otherwise  that  is 
not  practicable,  a  sum  of  money,  or  other  allot- 
ment should  be  awarded  in  lieu  thereof  for  equali- 
ty of  partition. — [No.  2235,  D.  C.  Aniblangodde. 
(CoU). 

December  23,  (O.  C.  H.) 

658. — Don  Siman  and  others  v.  Mathes  and 
others. 

The  Ooiiemment  of  Ceylon.     Intervenients. 

"  The  Government  of  Ceylon"  is  not  a  suffi- 
cient description  of  an  Intervenient  in  a  suit,  and 
the  exception  thereto  must  be  sustained. — TNo. 
3041,  D.  C.  Galle  (Coll). 


January  27,  1841.  (C.) 

659. — Gomes  v.  Feniando  and  others. 

A  contract  for  the  sale  of  growing  timber  must 
be  in  writing,  executed  before  a  Notary  and  wit- 
nesses, according  to  the  provisions  of  the  2nd. 
Clause  of  the  Ordinance  No.  7.  of  1840,  because 
growing  trees  are  iynmoveable  property  ;  but  when 
broken  off,  rooted  up,  or  cut  down,  (i.  e.  severed 
from  the  soil)  they  become  thereafter  moveable 
property.  Thus  Voet  says  (Lib.  1.  Tit.  8.  §  13.) 
"  Arhores  quoque  fundo  hcerentes,  immohilibus 
"  aoeensentur,  ut  partes  prcediomm :  quce  omnia, 
"  uhi  ruta  seu  eruia  et  caesa  fuerint,  uti  Aesimant 
"  fundi  partes  esse,  ita  in  posterum  mdbilibus  an- 
"  numeranda  sunt;  nee  amplius  fundi  dowmsve 
"jura  sequvMtur." — \_No.  30,502  D.  0.  Colombo, 
8.] 

February  6,  (C.) 

660. —  Omer  Lehhe  v.  Pokier  Tamiy. 

Though  the   S.  C.  would  never  allow  the  in- 
ferior Court  to  call  in  question  the  propriety  of 


[  305  ] 


1841 


its  decisions  on  the  points  decided  before  it,  but 
would  expect  the  most  implicit  compliance  to  all 
its  orders  therein ;  yet  whenever  on  further  evi- 
dence being  directed  nevr  matter  transpires,  which 
is  conclusive  of  the  suit  between  the  parties,  the 
D.  C.  exercises  only  a  very  proper  discretion  in 
not  proceeding  further  in  the  inquiry,  and  in 
doing  so,  it  fully  acts  up  to,  and  complies  with 
the  whole  intention  and  spirit  of  the  order  of  the 
S.  C.—lNo.  5391,  D.  C.  Batticaloa.'] 

February  8,  (O.) 

661. — Cosy  Lebhe  v.  Canjy  Lebhe. 

Every  man  has  a  right  to  abate  an  obstruction 
on  a  public  path. — [J7o.  6989,  D.  0-  Colombo.'} 

February  20  (C.) 
662. — The  QueerCs  Advocate  v.  Mendis. 

This  case  was  remanded  to  the  Court  below  to 
take  further  evidence  on  both  sides  as  to  the  loss 
on  the  re-sale  of  a  garden.  Per  Carr  J. — Mr. 
Advocate  Hanna,  as  Counsel  for  the  Appellant 
has  strongly  urged  upon  the  attention  of  this 
Court,  that  the  amount  received  on  the  resale 
was  matter  only  of  admission  on  the  plaintiff's 
part  in  reduction  of  the  plaintiff's  full  demand 
for  the  whole  purchase  money,  and  that  the  plain- 
tiff was  not  therefore  bound  to  prove  the  loss  on  a 
resale.  But  the  cases  of  James  v.  Shore  1  Stark. 
480,  and  Hageden  v.  Laing  6  Taunt.  166,  might 
be  cited  to  show,  that  where  the  vendor  has  power 
to  resell,  an  action  to  recover  the  whole  value  of 
the  land  or  the  goods  bargained  and  sold,  could 
not  be  maintained  after  resale ;  and  in  the  pre- 
sent case  the  pleadings  'also  are  not  only  not 
framed  to  support  such  view.  But  the  Conditions 
of  Sale  do  not  appear  to  leave  it  at  the  option  even 
of  the  plaintiff  to  resell.  The  terms  are  not  on 
failure  of  payment  by  the  purchaser,  that  the  gar- 
den may  be  resold,  or  that  the  plaintiff  should  be 
at  Uberty  to  resell ;  but  the  words  are,  "  the  gar- 
"  den  mil  be  resold  at  the  risk  of  the  purchaser, 
"  in  which  case  the  purchaser  shall  be  held  liable 


Procedure  on 
a  remand  for 
fuither  evi- 
dence. 


Right  of  a- 
batin  g  ob- 
structions. 


An  action 
does  not  lie  for 
the  whole  of 
the  purchase- 
money,  where 
the  vendor  has 
exercised  his 
right  of  resel- 
ling. 

The  District 
Covirt  may 
hear  witnesses, 
though  not  on 
the  List;  and 
may  call  wit- 
nesses at  its 
own  instance. 


^8«  [  306   ] 

"  for  any  loss  that  may  occur  from  euch  sale.'" 
If  any  doubt  existed  as  to  how  the  parties  under- 
stood the  Conditions  of  Sale  on  this  point,  tha 
plaintiff  has  by  his  own  acts,  both  in  the  resale, 
and  his  pleadings  put  such  a  construction  upon 
it.  The  whole  gist  of  the  plaintiff's  action  is  the 
alleged  loss  upon  the  resale,  and  it  is  clearly  for 
plaintiff  to  prove  the  extent  of  defendants  present 
liability  by  proof  of  the  loss  which  actaally  occur- 
red on  the  resale  according  to  the  Conditions. 
Though  the  concluding  paragraph  of  the  20th 
Eule  of  Section  1,  has  been  relied  on  by  the  Proc- 
tor for  the  defendant  as  warranting  the  exclusion 
of  the  documentary  evidence  adduced,  yet  the 
28th  Rule  of  Section  1,  clearly  provides  for  the 
tearing  of  witnesses  (though  not  on  the  list)  ten- 
dered during  the  time  of  trial  to  prove  a  necessary 
point,  and  the  provision  also  in  the  28th  Rule  com- 
mencing with  the  words  "  and  if  the  Court  shall 
consider  further  evidence  necessary  (in  addition  to 
that  adduced  by  the  parties)  for  the  purposes  of 
justice  &c."  ;  has  always  hitherto  received  a  libe- 
ral and  enlarged  construction,  as  vesting  the  Dis- 
trict Court  with  a  discretionary  power  to  examine 
or  call  for  any  further  written  or  parol  evidence, 
which  it  may  think  necessary  ;  though  to  prevent 
the  unnecessary  attendance  again  of  the  witnesses 
summoned,  or  the  loss  of  their  evidence  by  death, 
it  is  expressly  directed  in  any  such  case  of  delay 
to  examine  the  witnesses  present.  At  all  events 
the  Supreme  Court  clearly  has  the  power  under 
the  35th  Clause  of  the  Charter  to  receive  or  admit 
any  such  further  evidence,  and  it  has  no  scruple 
for  the  purposes  of  justice,  and  to  prevent  further 
litigation,  in  remanding  this  case  accordingly  for 
the  admission  of  such  evidence,  and  also  for  fur- 
ther hearing,  as  the  case  for  the  defendants  ap- 
pears to  have  been  stopped  upon  the  failure  of  the 
plaintiff's  proof.- [JVo.  191,  D.  C.  Colomho,  N.] 

March  3,  (0.  C.) 
e&3.—Wally  V.  Wary. 
Mivam,  Moorgen.     Intervenient. 
Th«  death  of        Per   Cabr  J.  delivering   the  Judgment  of  the 


[  307   ] 

Court. — "  The  death  of  all  the  attesting  witnesses 
will  jiot  dispense  with  the  legal  proof  of  the 
deed."— [J^b.  2654,  D.  0.  Wadimoraichy.1 

March  6,  (0.) 

664. — Maleweraya  v.  Penatamhy. 

Moorgeser  Ayer  and  another.     Appraisers. 

The  Appraisers  fee  is  a  charge  upon  the  estate 
of  the  deceased,  payable  by  the  Adminstrator.  Per 
Oliphaht  C.  J.  INo.  7998,  D.  0-  Jafna.} 

March  24,  (H). 

665 — In  rS  Rasde  Oema. 
Eadjee  Abdul  v.  Serjeant  Ismail  and  another. 

It  is  only  in  extreme  cases  that  the  Supreme 
Court  would  be  inclined  to  sanction  the  granting 
of  Letters  of  Administration  to  the  Secretary  of 
any  Court,  in  preference  to  the  next  of  kin,  who 
by  Law  is  entitled  to  the  same. — [_No.  22,  D.  G. 
Galle.} 

April  7, 

[The  Hon'ble  Wm.  Ogle  Caru  Esquire  was 
sworn  in  as  Second  Puisne  Justice."] 

[The  Hon'ble  James  Stark  Esquire  was  sworn 
in  as  Second  Puisne  Justice.] 

June  16,  (O.) 

666. — The  Government  of  Ceylon  v.  Eurmoitte 
and  others. 

Leave  given  to  the  defendants  to  proceed  in 
the  prosecution  of  the  appeal  noted  by  them, 
without  giving  security  for  the  amount  of  the 
judgment,  or  for  the  costs  in  appeal ;  provided  it 
be  made  to  appear  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  D.  C. 
that  the  property  of  the  defendants,  or  any  of 
them,  which  has  been  sequestered  at  the  suit  of 
plaintiff  in  this  action,  is  sufficient  to  satisfy  the 
amount  of  the  said  judgment,  and  such  costs  as 
the  plaintiff  may  probably  be  put  to  in  prosecut- 
ing the  said  appeal. — \_No.  13,536  D.  0.  Kamdy, 
S.  Also  No.  13,998  D.  C.  Kandy  S.] 


all  the  attest- 
ing witnesses 
does  not  dis- 
pense with  the 
legal  proa£ 


The  Apprai- 
ser's fee  is  a 
charge  on  the 
estate. 


It  is  only  In 
extreme  cases, 
the  Court 
would  prefer 
the  Secretary 
to  the  next  of 
kin. 


Security  In 
appeal  dispens- 
ed with  where 
the  property 
sequestered  is 
sufHcient  to  co- 
ver the  judg- 
ment and  costA. 


1841 


[  308   ] 


The  Court 
will  not  delay 
proceedings  on 
an  irregular 
Intervention  ; 
but  their 
will  be  claims 
reserved. 


Rules  as  to 
production  of 
deeds  before, 
and  at  tha 
Trial. 


A  woman  un- 
der coverture 
cannot  sue, 
without    join- 


June  23,  (0.) 

667. —  Siman  de  Alwis  and  others  v.  DaTvid 
Perera  and  others. 

Decree  of  the  D.  C.  affirmed  with  costs  but 
■without  prejudice  to  the  respective  claims  of  the 
Intervenients,  if  they  should  be  advised  to  bring 
any  fresh  action  for  the  same.  In  their  present 
petitions  however  the  Intervenients  have  not  even 
set  forth  in  what  manner  they  deduce  their  title 
(as  through  what  heirs  &c.  they  claim)  and  the 
first  step  therefore  upon  any  further  inquiry  being 
directed,  as  prayed  for,  respecting  their  claims, 
would  be  to  require  an  amendment  of  their  own 
pleadings.  It  is  not  just  that  the  defendants 
should  suffer  from  the  neglect  of  these  Interveni- 
ents ;  and  upon  such  informal  and  defeciive  plead- 
ings this  Court  will  not  on  appeal  remand  the 
case  for  further  inquiry  into  claims  so  irregularly 
brought  forward,  when  it  would  thereby  suspend 
the  decree  in  favor  of  the  defendants  against  the 
plaintiffs,  and  delay  for  an  indefinite  period  the 
defendants  recovering  the  heavy  costs,  which  they 
have  incurred  in  this  suit. — [No.  28,228  B.  C 
Colombo,  S.] 

668. — Mahlem  Sultan  v,  Minna  Markcm. 

The  Rule,  Section  1.  provides  specially  for  the 
non-production  of  the  originals  of  such  wiitten 
documents  as  are  in  the  hands  of  third  parties, 
and  cannot  therefore  be  produced  till  the  trial. 
And  if  the  plaintiff  could  not  at  the  trial  satisfy 
the  Court  that  he  was  unable  to  file  either  the 
original  or  copy,  the  D.  C.  might  refuse  to  receive 
the  deed  in  evidence,  but  otherwise,  if  he  satis- 
factorily established  the  loss  of  such  deed  in  the 
hands  of  a  third  party,  secondary  evidence  might 
be  admitted  of  it.— [JVo.  7571  D.  G.  Colombo.] 

669. — Seydoo  Meera  Lebhe  v.    Bastian  Fernando 
and  others. 

The  plaintiff  cannot  support  this  action  upon 
his  contract  only  with  Francina  Fernando,  she 
being  the  wife  of  Oallegey  Bastion,  Peris ;  and  on 
the  other  hand  until  the  husband  BasUan  Perk 


309 


1841 


gave  his  consent  to  the  defendant's  detention  of 
the  cattle  in  question,  the  defendants  were  wrong- 
doers in  their  entry  on  the  plaintiff's  premises, 
and  in  forcibly  taking  therefrom  the  said  cattle. — 
[No.  6499,  D.  0.  Colombo.} 

June  30,  (C). 

670. — Ootoopulle  v.  Wood. 

It  appears  from  the  proceedings  that  the  secu- 
rity was  ordered  on  the  25th  Februaiy  1839  up- 
on the  consent  of  both  parties ;  and  the  merits 
of  the  present  application  also  have  been  fully 
decided  upon,  on  a  similar  application  by  the 
surety  on  the  16th  October  1840,  when  the  D.  C. 
refused  to  cancel  the  security  bond,  and  no  appeal 
was  entered  from  such  order.  It  is  sufficient  on 
this  appeal  therefore,  to  observe  that  the  Supreme 
Court  will  not  in  the  present  stage  of  the  suit  dis- 
charge a  security  for  costs  so  entered  into,  espe- 
cially as  it  appears  from  the  motion  (January  5th 
1838)  that  the  mere  poverty  of  the  plaintiff  alone 
was  not  the  sole  ground  for  the  defendant's  re- 
questing this  security ;  and  Sir  Charles  Marshall 
in  his  printed  collection  of  the  Decisions  of  the 
Swpreme  Court  page  78,  has  justly  remarked  that, 
though  the  Supreme  Court  has  decided  that  the 
mere  poverty  of  the  plaintiff  furnished  no  reason 
for  demanding  security  for  costs,  "  cases  may 
however  present  themselves  in  which  other  grounds, 
as  suspected  fraud,  or  the  like,  might  justify  this 
precaution."  Besides  the  present  application  of 
the  plaintiff  being  upon  its  merits,  is  a  repetition 
of  what  the  District  Court  had  already  previously 
decided  upon.  Both  the  written  motion  and  Peti- 
tion of  Appeal  contain  grossly  impertinent  lan- 
guage, which  shew  thatthe  Proctor  (Mr.  Collette) 
by  whom  they  are  drawn  up,  is  very  unfit  for  his 
duty,  either  from  being  very  imperfectly  conver- 
sant with  the  English  language,  or  ignorant  of 
the  ordinary  respect  due  in  his  profession  to  the 
Court,  and  of  the  proper  manner  in  which  appli- 
caisions,  or  pleadings  should  be  drawn  out.  He 
is  accordingly  disallowed  all  his  costs  of  this  ap- 
plication and  appeal,   and  the  District  Judge  will 


ing  the 
band. 


Huji- 


The  Court 
will  not  dia- 
charge  a  sure- 
ty for  c  0  s  t  s , 
wbere  the  se- 
curity was  or- 
dered by  con- 
sent. 

Costs  disal- 
lowed, for  im- 
proper langu- 
age in  the  Pe- 
tition of  Ap- 
peal. 


1B41 


[  310   ] 


Evidence  of 
Right  of  Way. 


In  trespass 
to  goods,  di- 
rect proof  of  the 
taking  is  not 
essential. 

Justification. 

Costs  in  the 
original  class. 


moreover  publicly  reprimand  him  for  the  above 
expressions  ;  and  upon  any  repetition  of  the  like 
misconduct,  the  Supreme  Court  will  not  fail  to 
notice  it  more  severely. — [iVo.  5659,  D.  (7.  Jaffna.'] 
July  3,  (S.) 
671. — Layard  v.  Wellon  Arachy. 

The  S.  C.  consider  that  the  evidence  in  proof 
of  the  path  having  been  so  long  used,  and  the 
existence  also  of  a  stile  at  the  place  in  question, 
when  the  garden  was  fenced  round  in  the  Dutch 
time  (as  deposed  to  by  the  fifth  witness)  suflS- 
ciently  establishes  defendant's  claim  to  it  as  a 
foot  way  ;  but  that  it  is  not  a  way  for  horses,  or 
cattle,  and  the  plaintiff  may  accordingly  replace 
the  stile.— [J^o.  6873,  D.  C  Colombo.'] 

July  10,  (C.) 

672. — Fernando  and  others  v.  Anfo  Naide  and 
others. 

Judgment  :— That  the  decree  of  the  D.  C.  of 
Colombo  S.  be  reversed ;  and  the  defendants  are 
decreed  to  pay  to  the  plaintiffs  the  sum  of  £3 
the  value  of  three  Nets,  with  costs  of  suit  in  the 
third  class.  The  Supreme  Court  cannot  concur 
with  the  District  Judge  in  the  reasons  which  he 
has  recorded  for  his  dissenting  from  the  Assessors, 
as  it  consider  the  weight  of  evidence  shews  that 
plaintiffs'  two  first  witnesses  who  depose  to  six 
Nets  having  been  laid  by  the  plaintiff's  and  brought 
ashore  by  the  defendants,  were  close  to  the 
spot ;  and  as  to  the  breadth  of  the  river  at  the 
place,  which  the  District  Judge  has  referred  to 
as  a  general  ground  for  discrediting  all  the  wit- 
nesses on  the  point,  it  is  not  proved  in  evidence, 
whilst  it  is  stated  at  the  Bar  without  denial,  that 
the  mouth  of  the  Pantura  river  is  very  narrow, 
there  being  a  sand-bank  similar  to  the  Kalany 
Ganga  at  Colombo  across  the  river,  through 
which  it  flows  by  a  narrow  passage  into  the  spa. 
Again  the  want  of  evidence  on  the  plaintiff's 
part  to  prove  that  the  defendants  removed  the 
Nets  from  the  shore  is  not  material.  Proof  of 
the  direct  wrongful  taking  away  is  of  itself  evi- 


,[    311    ]  1841 

^ence  of  a  conversion,  {Smt)id.  p.  881 ;  )  and  it  is 
sufficient  that  the  plaintiffs  sliould  liave  been 
thereby  deprived  of  their  property.  The  gist  of 
this  action  is  Vfhether  plaintiffs  incurred  any 
damage  or  loss  consequential  from  tortious  acts 
of  the  defendants,  and  whether  the  defendants 
could  justify  their  taking  away  the  Nets  of  the 
plaintiffs  by  shewing  it  arose  from  necessity,  and  to 
save  their  own  and  the  plaintiff's  Nets,  (4.  Esp. 
165,)  both  being  then  entangled  together,  and 
being  carried  away  by  the  current ;  but  which  is 
not  satisfactorily  proved.  It  has  been  argued 
by  the  defendant's  Counsel,  moreover,  that  this 
Court  cannot  give  the  costs  in  the  3)'d  class, 
in  which  this  action  has  been  brought,  because 
damages  have  been  assessed  in  an  amount  which 
falls  within  a  low«r  class  ;  but  the  Supreme  Court 
has  only  held  that,  "  The  general  rule  is,  that 
"  costs  are  awarded  in  the  class  in  which  judg- 
"  ment  is  given,  unless  special  circumstances  ap- 
-"  pear  to  take  the  case  out  of  that  rule"  (Kmidy, 
ith  December  1835  L.  B.  p.  507.)  If  the  rule 
were  not  thus  qualified,  it  would  prevent  this 
Court  from  awarding  nominal  da/mages  with  costs 
which  in  many  instances  the  justice  of  the  case 
between  the  parties  requires ;  and  the  plaintiff 
moreover  oft«n  at  the  trial  only  seeks  for  such 
redress,  when  it  would  be  absurd  to  say  that  he 
must  pay  extra  costs  to  the  defendant  for  such 
leniency.  "The  test  by  which  this  question  should 
rather  be  tried  as  a  general  principle  is,  "  whether 
the  plaintiff  was  justified  by  the  whole  result  of 
the  case  in  bringing  his  action  in  the  higher 
class," — If  the  suit  then  appears  to  have  been 
unreasonably  brought  in  the  higher  class,  or  from 
vexatious  or  oppressive  motives,  the  plaintiff  is 
very  properly  made  to  pay  the  extra  costs  which 
the  defendant  has  thereby  incurred.  On  the 
other  hand  if  the  defendant  appears  to  have  been 
the  wrong  doer,  the  Court  will  often  leave  him  to 
pay  his  whole  costs  of  the  suit,  though  it  refuses 
to  .give  any  other  redress  whatever  to  the  plain- 
tiff. In  the  present  instance  the  Supreme  Court 
entertains  no  doubt. that  the  riglit  of  the  plaintiffs 
to  fish  on  the  Colombo  side  of  the  riyer  has  been 


184^         .  [   312    ] 

the  real  cause  of  the  dispute,  and  that  the  defen- 
dants, in  disturbance  of  plaintiffs'  rights,  have 
been  wilful  aggressors  in  forcibly  removing  their 
Nets,  whereby  the  plaintiffs  have  been  deprived  of 
three  of  them.  Though  the  plaintiffs  have  in 
their  libel  claimed  six  Nets  of  the  value  of  £8, 
it  does  not  necessarily  follow,  as  argued  by  their 
Counsel,  that  therefore  three  can  only  be  of  the 
value  of  £4,  because  there  appears  from  the  evi- 
dence to  be  great  difference  in  the  value  of  these 
Nets  viz.  from  15  to  25  Eix  Dollars  ;  and  the 
Court  would  not  have  been  pressing  any  unfair 
presumption  in  evidence  against  the  plaintiffs  upon 
their  tortious  acts  (Str.  505)  if  the  full  value  of 
the  Nets  of  this  description  proved  (viz.  25  Eix 
Dollars)  had  been  decreed  against  them.  In  as- 
sessing the  value  at  a  more  moderate  average 
price  in  favour  of  the  plaintiffs,  it  would  be  there- 
fore very  hard,  to  thereby  deprive  the  plaintiffs 
of  their  costs,  which  the  Court  would  virtually  do 
if  the  costs  of  this  action  were  declared  to  be  pay- 
able only  in  the  second  class,  in  which  ten  per 
Cent,  on  the  amount  in  dispute  is  alone  allowed. — 
[_No.  30,844,  D.  G.  Colomho.^ 

673. — Pieris  v.  Cosfe. 

Adverse  pos-  Judgment  ; — That  the  decree  of  the  D.  C.  be 
session.  reversed  without  costs ;  and  the  defendant  is  de- 

Compensa-  (.]ared  to  be  entitled  to  the  land  in  dispute  upon 
fag"and'pLnt:  ^^r  paying  to  the  plaintiff  the  sum  of  £3-7-6, 
jug.  due  upon  the  old  Judgment  of  the  Sitting  Magis- 

trate's Court,  and  also  such  further  sum  as  the 
District  Court  may  (in  default  of  the  parties  mu- 
tually agreeing  to  the  same)  assess  by  way  of  rea- 
sonable compensation  to  the  plaintiff  for  the  value 
of  the  house  built  by  him  upon  the  land,  and  for 
the  expences  and  trouble  incurred  by  him  in  plant- 
ing it,  as  deposed  to  by  the  5tli  witness ;  and  both 
parties  are  decreed  to  pay  their  own  costs  of  this 
suit.  The  plaintiff  has  no  Notarial  transfer,  and  can 
rest  his  claim  only  on  a  prescriptive  title  of  ten 
years  adverse  possession,  which  has  not  been  satis- 
factorily proved.  The  plaintiff 's  original  title  to  the 
land  having  commenced  as  a  mortgagee,  the  Law 
will  not  without  strong  proof  to  the  contrary,  pre- 


[    313    ]  1841 

siime^his  possession  to  be  otherwise  than  consis- 
tent with  such  legal  title,  and  thereby  debar  the 
defendant's  equitable  right  to  redeem.     The  cir- 
cumstance of  the  plaintiff  also  never  having  got  a 
Notarial  transfer  after  incurring  the  expence  of  a 
survey,  and  his  adopting  the  irregular  course  of 
asking  the  Surveyor  to  note  down  the  sale  in  his 
book,  are  not  in  favour  of  the  plaintiff's  claim,  es- 
pecially when  the  Surveyor  refused;  but  laying 
aside  all  suspicious  circumstances,  it  appears  that 
this  action  was  not  instituted  until  the  27th  May 
1839,  for  previous  interruption  of  the  plaintiff's 
possession  by  the  defendant,  but  for  how  long,  is 
not  stated  in  the  libel ;  nor  is  it  very  material,  be- 
cause Ml'.  Franks  deposes  to  acts "  of  the  plaintiff 
in  1829,  which  amounted  to  an  acknowledgement 
of  a  title  then  existing  in  the  defendant  to  the  land; 
the  survey  is  also  dated  only  on  the  23rd   June 
1829,  and  the  marriage  Register  Book  produced 
to-day  in  Court  shews  that  the  marriage  of  the 
defendant,  (which  is  referred  to  as  the  period  of 
the  alleged  sale)  did  not  occur  till  the  12th  of 
July  1829.     Prom  the  same  book  it  appears  how- 
ever that  the  defendant  was  born  in  1804,  so  that 
her  alleged  minority  is  untrue,  and  a  mere  sub- 
terfuge to  excuse  her  great  laches  in  sleeping  over 
her  legal  rights,  so  many  years,  and  in  not  bring- 
ing this  action  sooner;   whilst  she   has   in   the 
interval  knowingly  permitted  the  plaintiff  to  con- 
tinue in  uninterrupted  possession  of,  and  in  good 
faith  to  build  upon,  and  plant  the  land,  as  the 
owner  thereof ;  she  cannot  therefore  expect  under 
such  circumstances  that  her  claim  would  not  be 
disputed  by  the  plaintiff,  or  to  be  favoured  by  this 
Court,   in  being  allowed  to   benefit  by  her  own 
laches  and  deceit. — \_No.  25,035  X>.  C  Colombo,  S.] 

G7L—DeWodde  Appoohamy  and  another  v.  Bingi- 
hamy. 

The  simple  point  for  the  S.  C.  to  decide  is,  Res  JmiAcaia. 

whether  the  decrees  in  the  previous  cases  can  be  Identityof 

pleaded  in  bar  to  the  plaintiff's  present  action,  gi^lj^jj^'  ^"^ 

as  heirs  of  Balhamy  ;  and  this  Court  is  clearly  of  '^ 
ojjinion  that  they  cannot,  the  plaintiffs  not  being 


1841 


[31-t  ] 


Res  Judicata. 
Pai'ties  and 
Privies. 


The  existence 
of  other  debts 
is  no  answer 
to  a  creditor's 
suit  against  an 
Administrator. 


parties  on  the  Eecord  in  those  cases  (excepting 
in  the  case  No.  1242,  where  the  1st  plaintiiS 
claimed,  not  by  inheritance,  but  by  sale  and  dow- 
ry ;)  and  the  plaintiff's  present  claim  as  heirs  of 
Balhamy,  not  being  put  also  in  issue  in  the  above 
cases.  The  cases  nevertheless  afford  strong  do- 
cumentary evidence  in  favor  of  the  defendant 
against  the  present  claim  of  the  plaintiff. — [No. 
3257,  D.  G.  Golomho.li 

675. — Ukhooliamy  v.  Menichliamy  and  another. 

The  Decree  of  the  D.  C.  is  affirmed  as  to  the 
dismissal  of  the  plaintiff's  claim  to  the  estate  or 
share  alleged  to  have  belonged  to  the  plaintiff's 
uncle  Ukkoohamy,  because  the  decree  in  the 
former  suit  may  be  properly  pleaded  in  bar  by  de- 
fendant against  all  persons  claiming  title  by  de- 
scent through  Ukkoohamy;  but  as  regards  the 
plaintiff's  claim  by  inheritance  to  the  share  which 
his  father  Balhamy  inherited  direct  from  the 
grandfather  Gameralle,  and  which  never  belonged 
to  the  uncle,  the  decree  in  the  former  suit  affecting 
the  estate  and  title  of  Ukkoohamy  only,  cannot 
be  pleaded  in  bar  thereto,  though  it  be  strong 
documentary  evidence  in  proof  of  defendant's  long 
adverse  possession.  The  case  is  therefore  refer- 
red back  to  the  D.  C.  to  hear  further  evidence  on 
both  sides  in  respect  to  the  said  share  of  the  es- 
tate alleged  to  have  descended  by  inheritance  from 
the  grandfather  Gameralle  to  plaintifTs  father, 
and  from  him  to  plaintiff,  and  the  D.  C.  will  de- 
cree accordingly. — \_No.  3053,  D.  G.  GolomboSl 

July  14,  (C.) 
676. — Andris  v.  Fonceka  and  another. 
It  is  clear  that  the  plaintiff's  claims  as  a  cre- 
ditor should  not  be  defeated  by  the  unsupported 
allegation  of  the  defendants  that  there  are  out- 
standing debts  and  charges  upon  the  estates,  to 
which  the  defendants  are  appointed  as  Adminis- 
trators, which  will  swallow  up  the  whole  estate  from 
the  heirs.  In  Simon  Fonseka's  estate  it  appears 
from  the  list  filed  by  the  plaintiff  that  there  are 
other  property  to  satisfy  the  bond-debt  due  to  the 


C  315  J 


first  defentlant,  and  the  memorandum  also  en- 
dorsed upon  the  bond  of  a  private  transfer  of  the 
i  of  the  garden  Karipinchayawatte  to  the  first  de- 
fendant tlie  Administrator,  for  liis  own  debt,  forms 
no  legal  bar  to  the  plaintiff's  right ;  especially  as 
the  alteration  apparent  in  the  date  thereof,  and 
the  value  of  siich  ^  being  alleged  by  the  plaintiff 
to  be  Eds.  600,  or  double  the  amount  of  first 
defendant's  debt,  shew  fraud  and  collusion  in 
the  transactions  ;  and  this  Court  suspects  that  it 
was  made  only  with  the  view  of  defeating  the 
plaintiff's  and  other  just  creditors'  claims  on  the 
share  of  the  family  estate  due  to  S.  Fonseka. 
Steps  should  be  therefore  forthwith  taken  to  com- 
pel a  proper  account  of  the  two  estates  being  filed 
by  the  respective  Administrators  (the  defendants) 
as  there  is  no  excuse  for  the  delay  therein  which 
has  been  permitted  for  so  many  years. — [_No.  5193, 
D.  C.  Colombo.^ 

Jnly  28,  (C.) 

677. — Achland  v.  Oomes. 

Interlocutory  order  of  the  D.  C.  set  aside  with 
costs.  Looking  to  the  bond  of  the  6th  September 
1836,  with  tlie  Indenture  of  even  date ;  and  also 
to  the  subsequent  correspondence  filed,  the  risk 
of  the  debts  in  the  fii'st  instance  must  ^clearly  be 
considered  to  fall  upon  the  defendant.  But  the 
Supreme  Court  does  not  understand  how  the  amount 
of  the  debts  due  to  the  "  Observer"  establish- 
ment, (which  item  is  specifically  objected  to  in 
the  Answer)  can  be  justly  included  in  the  account 
agamst  the  defendant.  A  Court  of  Equity  will 
open  a  settled  account  though  it  has  been  signed, 
and  a  security  (as  a  bond)  taken  for  the  baknce, 
upon  oppression,  and  a  particular  error  specified 
in  the  pleadings,  and  supported  by  evidence.  (See 
GMtty's  Eq.  B.  "  Accmmt.'")  and  the  Supreme 
Court  thinks  under  the  circumstances  in  this  case 
that  the  "  Observer"  debts  ought  to  be  deducted 
from  the  amount  to  be  decreed  due  to  the  plain- 
tiff, unless  the  plaintiff  can  adduce  evidence  to 
satisfy  this  Court  that  such  demand  was  not  un- 
fairly included  in  -the  accoimt.      The   defendant 


A  settled 
Account  will 
be  opened  up  on 
proofof error  or 
oppression. 

A  Trustee  for 
the  recovery  of 
debts  is  liable 
for  negligence. 


i^-n  [  316   ] 

rnoreover  having  assigned  the  whole  debts  to  the 
plaintiif  upon  trust  for  recovery,  it  was  the  duty 
of  the  latter  to  use  due  deligence  for  their  recovery, 
not  only  in  instituting  actions,  but  in  taking  fresh 
acknovrledgments  on  demand  made,  or  security, 
so  as  to  prevent  the  debts  being  barred  by  pres- 
cription &c ;  and  if  any  such  debts  can  be  proved 
to  be  now  lost  or  irrecoverable  owing  to  the  laches 
or  neglect  of  the  plaintiff  in  these  respects  (and 
being  shop  bills,  on  any  such  default  occurring  as 
aforesaid,  the  greater  proportion  must  now  be 
liable  to  be  prescribed  in  law,)  the  defendant  is 
entitled  to  have  the  amount  thereof  deducted  from 
his  debt.  A  proportionate  abatement  from  the 
charge  of  interest  upon  the  whole  debt  should 
also  be  made  upon  sums  received  in  satisfaction 
of  the  debts  assigned,  as  the  same  were  recovered, 
and  also  on  the  amount  for  bricks,  kekuna-nut 
&c.,  (otherwise  the  plaintiff  would  be  charging 
interest  for  money  actually  in  his  own  hands;) 
and  the  account  filed  by  the  plaintiff  is  defective 
herein.  Not  only  upon  the  above  points  therefore 
further  evidence  must  be  required,  unless  the 
parties  by  admission  agree  to  dispense  therewith, 
but  furthermore  the  subsequent  Deed  of  Sale, 
and  the  original  Title  Deeds  mortgaged  should 
be  filed,  and  evidence  must  be  entered  into  upon 
the  facts  put  in  issue  in  the  Answer,  as  to  whether 
such  sale  was  made  upon  the  further  considera- 
tion, understanding  and  good  faith  of  the  defen- 
dant receiving  thereon  a  general  release,  the  plain- 
tiff keeping  the  bills  assigned ;  or  else  that  defen- 
dant should  thereon  have  delivered  up  to  him  bills 
of  £450  on  his  executing  a  bond  of  £100,  which 
it  would  appear  has  not  been  finally  done,  owing 
to  the  unpaid  debts  being  found  since  to  amount 
to  only  £375,  when  the  defendant  declined  giving 
more  than  a  bond  for  £50.  The  Supreme  Court 
looking  to  the  letters  filed,  and  the  apparently 
very  low  price  of  £350  being  given  as  the  full 
value  of  four  seperate  fields,  with  the  brick-kiln 
and  buildings  thereon,  situate  at  Kandy,  is  strong- 
ly inclined  to  give  credit  to  the  defendant's  asser- 
tions as  to  the  above  price  not  being  the  sole 
consideration,   or  full  value  for  such  transfer,  and 


[  317   ] 


1841 


that  tlie  whole  contract  has  not,  (as  it  ought  to 
have  been)  completed  and  carried  into  effect.  If 
upon  taking  further  evidence,  it  appear  that  the 
above  sale  was  in  part  performance  only  of  a 
contract  not  finally  carried  into  effect  or  fully 
completed  on  the  plaintiffs  part,  as  alleged  by 
the  defendant,  or  that  the  sum  given  was  a  very 
inadequate  consideration,  and  that  advantage  had 
been  taken  therein  of  the  defendant's  embarrass- 
ment, the  sale  must  be  wholly  set  aside. — [iVo. 
13,339,  D.  C.  Kandy,  S.] 

August  21,  (S.) 
678, — Sinnatamby  v.  Amasalam  and  his  wife. 

The  D.  C.  should  not  have  stopped  the  case  on 
reference  to  the  Letters  of  Administration  not 
having  been  granted.  Parties  must  conduct  their 
own  cases  and  take  their  own  exception. — [_lSfo. 
6285,  D.  G.  Jaffna.^ 

September  8,  (0). 

679. — In  the  matter  of  the  Registry  of  Marriage 

between  PayTci&r  M.  Coder  Meyedden — Appellant, 

and  M,  Nachm,  daughter  of  S.  Neyna  Marcar — 

Respondent. 

Per  Oliphant  C.  J.  "  How  can  the  Court  decree 
a  maiTiage  to  be  registered  when  the  consent  of  the 
intended  bridegroom  no  where  appears,  and  the 
bride  consents  by  proxy." — [iVo.  10,243,  D.  C, 
Jaffna.^ 

680. — Wayr&moUoe  v.  Oaderyiainby. 

Interlocutory  Order  affirmed.  The  plaintiff  has 
not  stated  in  the  libel  any  legal  cause  of  action. 
No  action  lies  for  including  property  in  an  Inven- 
tory.—[JVo.  10,038,  D.  G.  Jaffna.'] 

681. — Miera  Leble  v.  Arla^en  Tulle. 

Plaintiff  cannot  be  called  upon  to  prove  that 
he  advanced  the  money.  Of  this  the  bond  is  suf- 
ficient prima  facie  evidence,  only  to  be  rebutted 


A.  D.  C.  can- 
not stop  a  case 
on  an  excep- 
tion not  taken 
by  the  parties. 


Consent  to 
Marriage  can- 
not be  given 
by  Proxy. 


An  Action 
does  not  lie  for 
including  pro- 
perty in  an  In- 
ventory. 


Want  of  Con- 
sideration. 

Burthen    of 
proof. 


18-U 


[  318  ] 


Appeal  to 

Privy  Council. 

Procedure  on 

abandonment. 


Procedure  in 
case  of  imper- 
fect pleading. 


by  satisfactory  evidence  to  the  contrary,  which  in 
this  case  has  not  been  adduced. — {_No.  8,787,  D. 
G.  Cliilaw  and  Putlam.^ 

September  22,  (0.) 

682. — MahcMimado  Cassim  v.  Welley  Appa  Ghetttj 
and  others. 

Mr.  Advocate  Selby  files  Power  of  Attorney  of 
the  plain  tiif  and  respondent  in  favor  of  M.  L. 
Alim  Hadjiar  and  a  proxy  of  the  said  M.  L. 
Alim,  Hadjiar  to  Louis  Jumeaux  Esquire  Proctor 
of  this  Court,  and  moves  for  a  Rule  Nisi  upon  the 
defendants  and  appellants  to  shew  cause  on  Wed- 
nesday the  10th  day  of  November  next,  why  their 
Appeal  in  Council  should  not  be  declared  aban- 
doned ;  and  why  the  plaintiff  and  respondent 
should  not  be  allowed  to  avail  himself  of  the  judg- 
ment of  this  Court  in  his  favor  dated  1st  March 
1837*,  and  why  the  said  defendants  and  appel- 
lants should  not  be  decreed  to  pay  the  costs  of 
this  motion. 

Ordered  accordingly. — \No.  84,  X>.  C.  Ifawosr.f  ] 

September  29,  (0). 

683. — Maria  Fernando  widow,  v.  Lovento  Silva 
and  others. 

No  doubt,  in  strictness,  the  defendants  are  en- 
titled to  absolution  from  the  instance.  The  plain- 
tiff's Proctor  has  filed  a  libel  which  evidently  does 
not  set  forth  the  real  facts  of  the  case,  and  which 
there  can  be  little  doubt  he  could  have  obtained 
by  questioning  the  plaintiff.  She  has  not  speci- 
fically set  forth  the  circumstances  of  her  title  by 
inheritance  as  she  ought  to  have  done.  On  the 
part  of  the  defendants,  a  suit  is  referred  to,  the 
decree  in  which  is  not  tiled,  but  a  Thombo  Extract 
to  which  no  reference  is  made  in  the  answer. 
The  parties'  rights  have  not  properly  been  brought 
before  the  Court.  It  may  tm-n  out  that  they  are 
not  able  to  set  forth  any  clear  title  either  one  side 
or  the  other,  but  as  the  pleadings  are  so  defective 
•  Vide  Morrjan's  Dvjest  p.  137,  par.  463. 
t  Vide  ^ost  p.  320,  par.  6S8. 


[313  ] 


1841 


tlwy  must  be  struck  off  the  Record,  and  the  Dis- 
tiict  Judge  must  question  the  parties,  take  their 
oral  statement  and  make  up  the  issue  himself  by 
the  case,  and  give  judgment  anew. — \_No.  7,960, 
D.  C  ColowAo.^ 

684. — Madelena  Fernando  widow  v.  PhilUppo 

Feriiando,  Administrator  &c., 

It  is  ordered  that  the  proceedings  be  referred  ■*  Partition 
back  to  the  District  Court  to  call  upon  the  first  cour3eVf°Ad° 
defendant  to  pass  without  delay  his  accounts  as  miniatratiou. 
Administrator  of  his  deceased  father  Boosabadu- 
gey  Markoe  Fernando,  and  to  ascertain  thereafter 
whether  the  plaintiif  is  entitled  to  any,  and  what 
share,  in  the  garden  in  question  by  purchase  or 
otherwise,  and  to  have  the  garden  properly  divi- 
ded, and  the  plaintiff  put  then  into  possession  of 
her  just  share  thereof.  It  appears  that  the  father 
has  been  long  since  dead,  and  his  heirs  have  been 
several  years  possessing  the  garden  in  common 
according  to  their  respective  shares,  and  that  Let- 
ters of  Administration  were  granted  four  years 
ago  to  the  defendant,  so  that  plaintiff  may  now 
fairly  seek  for  an  account  and  partition  of  his 
estate.~[A'o.  5502,  D.  G.  Colomho.} 

October  6,  (0.) 

685. — Silva  v.  Jayekade. 

Judgment. — That  the  decree  of  the  District 
CouH  of  Colombo  No.  1  North  of  the  9th  day 
of  July  1841  be  reversed.  The  Law  prescribes 
the  time  after  which  the  presumption  arises,  namely 
thirty  years. 

" Papegaay. — Vol.  1.  page  82.  "Sentences  of 
"  towns  and  villages  are  superannuated  after  one 
"  year.  The  Sentences  of  the  Court  of  Holland 
"  after  five  years.  The  Sentences  of  the  Supreme 
"  Court  after  ten  years.  The  same  may  not  be 
"  carried  into  execution  after  such  time,  unless 
"  execution  has  been  fii'st  and  previously  decreed 
"  thereon." 

"Dutch  Lcm  Diotion(wy—Yo\.  1.  page  492. 
"  Lastly  although  the  action  on  a  judgment  con- 


Prescription 

of  Judgments. 


184] 


[  320   ] 


'  tinues  for  30  years,  as  being  a  personal  action, 
'  by  reason  of  which  it  was  anciently  called  per- 
■  petual,  and  thus  only  lost  its  effect  by  a  prescrip- 
'  tion  of  the  longest  time  {longissimi  temporis,) 
'  it  has  nevertheless  been  thought  right  by  our 
'  practice,  that  it  should  become  antiquated,  that 
'  is  superannuated,  or  of  no  force,  in  a  much 
'  shorter  period,  namely  to  this  effect,  that  after 
'  the  lapse  of  the  time  fixed,  no  execution  on 
'  account  of  a  Judgment  can  be  sued  out,  unless 
'  the  same  has  first  been  anew  declared  executable, 
'  which  is  the  same  as  though  the  first  Judgment 
'  were  renewed,  after  the  party  has  first  been 
'  summoned  there  concerning,  which  time  is  one 
'  year  for  the  Town  Courts  ;  fire  years  for  the 
'  Court  of  Holland ;  and  ten  years  for  the  Su- 
'preme  Court."— [JSTo.  16,9141}.  C.  Colombo,  F.] 


686. — Sly  ma 


October  20,  (O.) 

Lehbe  and  another 
and  others. 


Nioliolapulle 


Master  and 
Servant. 

A  Master  not 
liable  for  tres- 
pass by  i5er- 
vaDt. 


Costa  of  a 
previous  action 
must  be  paid 
bafore  a  new- 
action  is  com- 
menced. 


Appeal  to 
Privy  Council. 

Procedure 
on  abandon- 
ment. 


The  decree  of  the  D.  C.  as  regards  the  first 
defendant  was  reversed.  Fer  Oliphant  C.  J, — It 
does  not  appear  in  evidence  that  he  had  anything 
to  do  with  the  wrong ;  and  a  man  cannot  be  made 
liable  for  a  wrong  done  by  his  servants  or  others. — 
[No.  9530,  D.  G.  Jaffna.'] 

687. — Fernando  and  another  v.  Jumeaux  and 
another. 

The  costs  of  a  former  suit  which  has  been  with- 
drawn must  be  paid,  before  a  new  suit  for  the 
same  claim  can  be  instituted. — [JVo.  8,815  D.  0. 
Colombo.'] 

November  10,  (0.) 

688. — Mahamvmadoe  Casim  v.  Welley  Appen  Chdty 
and  others. 

Mr.  Advocate  Selby  produces  theEule  Nisi 
issued  in  this  case  on  the  22nd  September  last, 
calling  upon  the  appellants  to  shew  cause  this 
day  why  their  Appeal  to  His  late  Majesty  in  Council 
should  not  be  declared  abandoned,  and  why  the 
plaintiff  and  respondent  should  not  be  allowed  to 
avail  himself  of  the  judgment  of  this  Court  in 


[    321    ]  1841 

bis  favour  dated  the  first  day  of  March  1837,t  and 
why  the  said  defendants  and  appellants  should 
not  he  declared  to  pay  the  costs  of  this  motion. 

The  said  Advocate  produces  these  several  affi- 
davits to  wit. 

One  of  Louis  Jumeav/a  Proctor  for  the  respon- 
dent verifying  that  copy  of  a  Rule  Nisi  obtained 
in  this  case  was  enclosed  in  a  letter  addressed  by 
him  to  /.  G.  HiUebrand  Usqmre,  formerly  Proctor 
for  appellants,  and  that  the  deponent  received  the 
answer  hereunto  annexed ; 

Colombo,  8th  November  1841. 
Sir, 

I  beg  leave  to  return  the  Eule  Nisi  in  the 
Manar  Appeal  case  No.  84  being  no  longer  Counsel 
for  the  Appellant  in  that  case  ;  your  letter  of  the 
5th  instant  enclosing  the  above  order  was  delivered 
to  me  only  on  Saturday  last. 

I  am  &c. 

(Signed)  /.  G.  Hillebrand. 

L.  Jumeauas  Esquire. 

One  of  Simon  Bodrigo  verifying  that  he  was 
personally  acquainted  with  Palliniappa  Chetty  who 
traded  in  Colombo  imder  the  style  of  Moottoo 
Palliniappa  Chetty ;  that  he  has  made  diligent 
inquiry  after  the  said  Palliniappa  Chetty,  and 
that  the  deponent  is  credibly  informed  and  doth, 
verily  believe  that  the  said  Palliniappa  Chetty,  a 
defendant  and  appellant  in  the  Manar  case  No.  84 
left  Ceylon  to  proceed  to  the  Coast,  and  is  not  to 
be  found  in  Colombo,  whereby  this  deponent  is 
prevented  from  serving  this  copy  and  translation 
of  a  Rule  Nisi  obtained  in  the  above  case. 

One  of  the  said  Simon  Bodrigo  verifying  that 
he  was  personally  acquainted  Welley  Appen  Chet- 
ty, Supramanian  Chetty,  Palliniappa  Chetty,  and 
Kisnappen  Chetty,  all  of  Natta  Cottah,  the  de- 
fendants and  appellants  in  the  Manar  case,  No. 
84 ;  that  they  have  all  left  Ceylon,  leaving  Sell- 
appa,  Meyappa,  Arnasalem,  and  Raman  Chetties, 
their  respective  partners  to  represent  them ;  fur- 
ther that  he  did  on  the  fifth  day  of  November 

f  Vide  Mm-gcm'f!  Vic/eft  p.  137,  par  463, 


1841 


[  322  ] 


Mahomedan 
Law. 

Divorce 
among  Maho- 
medans. 

Alimony. 


instant  seiTe  on  each  of  the  said  partners,  a  copy 
and  translation  of  the  within  Kule  Nisi. 

The  said  Aflidavits  are  read  and  filed.  Mr. 
Advocate  Staples  is  heard  on  behalf  of  the  Ap- 
pellant, and  undertakes  to  produce  to-morrow  a 
Power  of  Attorney  with  its  translation.  Ordered 
that  this  case  do  stand  over  till  to-morrow  after- 
noon at  4  o'clock. — [iVb.  84  D.  C.  Manar-I 

November  11,  (O.) 

Mr.  Advocate  Staples  produces  two  severa' 
Powers  of  Attorney  which  he  afterwards  with- 
draws. 

The  said  Advocate  is  heard  on  behalf  of  the  ap- 
pellant and  Mb.  Selby  on  behalf  of  the  respon- 
dent. 

Me.  Staples  moves  that  the  Kule  Nisi  issued 
in  this  case  on  the  22nd  September  last  be  dis- 
charged. 

Mr.  Selby  consents. 

Ordered  accordingly.— [JVo.  84,  D.  C.  Maiiar.'l 

November  19,  (0.  C.  S.) 

689. — Segoe  Lehhe  and  another  v,  Marcar  Mohan- 
drom  Sahcutty. 

The  decree  of  the  District  Court  of  Batticoloa  is 
affirmed  as  to  the  dismissal  of  the  plaintiffs'  claim 
for  Oayooolly  and  Maggar ;  the  Supreme  Comrt 
being  of  opinion  that  the  evidence  is  insufficient 
to  establish  a  divorce  in  conformity  with  the  Spe- 
cial Customs  of  the  Moors  concerning  Matrimonial 
Affairs,  Tit  II,  appended  to  Van  Leeuwen.  The 
Supreme  CoHrt  however  consider  that  the  second 
plaintiff  should  be  allowed  to  recover  under  this 
action  a  reasonable  sum  for  maintenance  for  the 
time  of  her  separation  up  to  the  date  of  the  decree 
of  the  District  Court ;  and  it  is  accordingly  fur- 
ther ordered  that  the  District  Court  shall  proceed 
to  assess  such  reasonable  sum  for  maintenance, 
after  hearing  the  evidence  of  the  second  plaintiff 
and  defendant  on  the  point.  AU  parties  are 
moreover  decreed  to  pay  their  own  costs  of  this 
case.— [lYo.  6G72,  B.  C.  Bafticoloa.  (Coll.) 


[  323  ] 


1841 


690. — MoJiammadoe  Gaslm  v.  Welhij  Appen  Chetiy 
and  others. 

Mr.  Advocate  Selby  for  the  plaintiff  nnd  res- 
pondent files  three  affidavits.  Upon  the  application 
of  the  plaintiff  and  respondent  it  is  ordered  that 
the  security  tendered  by  him  shall  be  produced 
before  the  Judges  of  this  Hon'ble  Court  Collec- 
tively at  Chambers  on  Monday  next  the  22nd  In- 
stant at  1 1  o'clock  in  the  forenoon,  and  that,  if 
the  said  Judges  shall  be  satisfied  of  the  sufSciency 
of  the  said  security  the  plaintiff  and  respondent 
shall  be  allowed  to  sue  out  execution. — [_No.  84, 
D,  C.  Mmiar.  (Coll). 

November  22,  (O.  C.  S.) 

691. — Mahammadoe  Casim  v.  Welley  Appen  Cheity 
and  others. 

On  the  motion  of  Mr.  Advocate  Selby,  it  is 
ordered  that  upon  the  plaintiff  and  respondent,  or 
his  lawful  Attorney,  entering  into  a  Bond  to  the 
Eegistrar  of  this  Court  in  the  sum  of  £2,000  ster- 
ling for  the  performance  of  the  Judgment  to  be 
pronounced  upon  the  Appeal  which  has  been 
noted  to  his  late  Majesty  the  King  in  Council, 
and  on  depositing  by  way  of  mortgage  the  title 
deeds  of  the  property  mentioned  in  the  report  of 
the  Appraisers,  Messrs.  Loos  and  Oorlofp,  dated 
the  23rd  day  of  May  1840  filed  in  this  case,  the 
plaintiff  and  respondent  be  allowed  to  sue  out  exe. 
cution  for  the  amount  of  the  Judgment  in  hi 
favour  and  Costs. — [2Jb.  84,  D.  C-  Jfawcw.* (Colls 

December  11,  (0.) 

692. — Don  Louis  v.  R.  Allis. 

The  Court  sitting  Collectively  has  considered 
the  Circular  Letter  referred  to  and  are  of  opinion 
that  it  is  invalid,  not  being  a  General  Kule  or  Order 
of  Court  and  never  having  been  transmitted  to 

*  S.  C.  Vide  Morgan's  Digest  p.  137,  par.  463,  and  p.  142, 
par.  470.  Ante  p.  211,  par.  550.  p.  318.  par.  682,  p. 
320,  par.  688.  et  seq.  And  Post  30th  June  1842. 


Appeal  to 
Privy  Council. 

Security  in 
Appeal. 


A  p  p  e  al  1 0 
Privy  Council. 

Security  in 
Appeal. 


ACircnlar 
Letter  is  not 
b  i  n  d  i  n  g  as  a 
Rule,  unless 
&c., 


1 841 


[  324  1 


A.  D.  C.  can- 
n»t  grant  Pa- 
rate  Execu- 
tion, or  appoint 
a  Commission, 
unless  autho- 
rized by  Law. 


Qu  ?  Whe- 
ther the  D.  C. 
can  award  tri- 
ple costs. 


Proceedings 
on  BxParte 
Trial 

Qu  ?  If  plain- 
tiff be  a  mar- 
ried woman. 


Where  a  par- 
ty appears  by 
Attorney,  the 
D.  C.  may  re- 
quire the  pre- 
sence of  the 
pai-ty. 


England  for  approval  as  required  by  the  Charter. — 
[No.  8692,  D.  0.  Galle.^ 

693. — Sibila  v.  Silva  and  another. 
Interlocutory  order  is  reversed. — The  District 
Judge  has  altogether  mistaken  his  powers.  Parate 
Execution  cannot  be  granted  in  this  case,  and  the 
Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  before  whom  this 
case  is  heard  in  Appeal  does  not  know  by  what 
authority  the  District  Judge  appointed  the  Com- 
mission.—[iVo.  7481,  D.  C.  Galle.'] 

694:.— Silva  v.  Juan  Naide. 

The  decree  in  this  case  was  affirmed,  subject  to 
the  opinion  of  the  Collective  Court  whether  the 
District  Court  has  power  to  award  triple  costs, 
and  therefore  that  point  was  reserved  for  CoUective 
decision.— [JVo.  8931,  D.  C  Colombo.'] 

695. — Candepermal  v.  Pen-atey. 

The  24th  Rule  of  Court  directs  that  if  the 
defendant  do  not  appear,  the  case  shall  be  heard 
for  plaintiff  ex  parte,  the  meaning  of  which  is,  that 
the  plaintiffs  must  prove  his  case ;  but  no  proof 
has  been  entered  into  in  this  case.  The  Court 
observes  that  the  defendant  is  a  married  woman, 
if  so  is  it  not  necessary  that  the  husband  be  joined 
in  an  action  of  this  nature  ?  And  if  so  let  the 
pleadings  be  amended  and  the  case  proceeded  with. 
The  present  decree  must  be  reversed  in  any  event 
for  the  reason  stated  above. — [_No.  7102,  D,  C 
Batticaloa.'] 

696. — Fonseka  v.  Fernando  and  others. 
Fernando  and  others.     Intervenients, 

In  this  case  the  real  Intervenients  have  given 
a  special  procuration  to  an  Attorney,  and  in  the 
ordinary  case,  that  Attorney  fully  represents  the 
principal ;  but  it  is  in  the  discretion  of  the  Judge 
to  require  the  presence  of  the  principal  if  he  shall 
so  determine.  Voei  Lib.  3.  Tit.  3.  §  14.  "  In- 
"  tervenire  potest  procurator  in  omnibus  causis 
"  civilibus,  nisi  circumstantioe  exigant  ipsius  domi- 
"  ni  proesentiam."  The  Judge  here  finds  that  by 
the  Rules  of  Court  the  presence  of  the  principals 
themselves  is   required,  and  he  is   entitled  to  en- 


[  325  ] 


1841 


force  it.  Decree  of  D.  C.  is  afmned. — [_Nu.  7416, 
p.  C.  Colombo.} 

December  30,  (0.  C.  S.) 

697. — Arawipolle  TJnamse  v.  Malia  Naike  Unanse' 

Mk.  H.  Staplbs  moves  that  the  proceedings  in 
this  case  may  be  renewed  in  the  Bistrid  Court 
of  Kandy.  South,  in  terms,  of  the  motion  made 
by  Mr.  J.  Staples  at  the  last  Eastern  Circuit  for 
the  purpose  of  the  case  being  prosecuted  in  Ap- 
peal to  Her  Majesty  in  Council. 

Ordered  that  this  case  be  brought  before  the 
Coiwt  on  Monday  next  the  3rd  Proximo,  leave 
being  given  to  Mr.  Staples  to  make  this  or  any 
other  motion  on  that  day  which  he  may  deem  ex- 
pedient, giving  reasonable  notice  to  Me.  BsLrnGthe 
Counsel  lor  the  opposite  party. — [No.  ^  D.  C- 
Kandy,  N.] 

January  3,  1842,  (O,  C.  S  ) 

698. — Anlochy  and  her   husband   v.  Maria, 

widow  and  Administratix. 

It  is  clear  that  the  Testators  gave  the  property 
to  plaintiff  as  her  inheritance,  she  is  therfore  not 
entitled  to  claim  it  as  a  legacy  and  claim  her 
inheritance  also.  \^No.  3626,  1).  C.  Battic(lua'\ 

699. — Kiri  Etiena  v.  Appoo  Naide. 

No  appeal  having  been  taken  against  the 
Judgment  overruling  the  objection  to  the  non- 
joinder of  the  husband,  the  Court  did  not  enter- 
tain the  question.     [_No.  2364,  D.  C.  Matelle.~\ 

February  4,  (S.) 
At  Chambers, 
700.— 7n  re  Donald  Davidson  Esq,  Merchant' 
On  reading  the  affidavit  of  Donald  Davidson 
of  Colombo  and  upon  the  motion  of  Mr.  Advo- 
cate Henry  Staples  on  behalf  the  said  Donald 
Davidson.  It  is  ordered  that  an  Injunticion  do 
issue  against  the  Collector  of  Customs  at  Galle, 
the  Controller  of  Customs  for  the  Southern  Pro 
viace,  and  to  all  and  every  other  persou  or  per- 


Appeal  to 
Privy  Council. 
Procedui-e. 


1842 


Where  a  le- 
gacy was  in 
tended  as  a 
satisfaction  for 
an  inheiitance, 
held  that  the 
legatee  cannot 
claim  both. 

The  S.    C. 

refused  to  en- 
tertain an  ob- 
jection which 
was  not  made 
a  ground  of 
appeal. 


Injunction  to 
restrain  sale  of 
goode. 


184-2 


C  326  ] 


The  right  to 
cut  down  over 
hanging  bran- 
ches,is  a  Com- 
ni  0  n  Law 
right. 


Joinder  of 
parties  order- 
ed, on  appeal. 


The  Court 
will  not  inter- 
fere with  the 
proceedings  of 
an  Administra- 
tor, excupt  on 
a  regular  ap- 
plication. 


sons  acting  on  their,  or  either  of  their  authority, 
so  desist  from  selling  the  following  goods  to  wit ; 
2  Cases  manifested  as  sundries, 
18  Chests  manifested  to  contain  opium. 
119  Bales  of  Cotton. 
33  Casks  with  salt  provisions  in  them ; 
until  the  decision  of  any  suit  that  may  be  insti- 
tuted relative  to  the  said  goods  or  until  this  Court 
shall  make  other  order  to  the  contrary. 

May  27.  (0.) 

701. — Juse  Fernando  v.  Juanls  Sielve. 

This  case  was  remitted  to  the  District  Court  to 
assess  the  damages  done  to  plaintiff's  roof  by 
defendant's  cocoanut  trees,  if  any ;  with  permis- 
sion to  defendant  to  call  evidence  if  he  shall  be 
so  advised  to  prove  that  plaintiff's  house  or  any 
part  thereof,  is  on  defendant's  property ;  and 
leaving  to  plaintiff  to  exercise  his  Common  Law 
right  of  cutting  off  any  boughs  or  parts  of  trees 
which  overhang  his  premi-ses,  and  that  judgment 
be  given  thereupon. — [_No.']']0o,  DC.  Colombo.2 

May  31,  (0.) 

702.—Silva  V.    Chrisloffdsz. 

The  necessary  parties  not  having  been  all  join- 
ed, it  is  considered  that  the  decree  of  the  District 
Court  be  set  aside  and  the  purchaser  made  a  de- 
fendant.—[iVb.  7561,  B.  C.  Colombo.2 

703. — Senetviratna  v.  Senewiratna. 

An  applicatian  is  made  to  the  Court  to  cause 
the  Administrator  to  deal  with  the  Estate  in  a 
particular  way.  This  cannot  be  done  ;  the  pro- 
ceedings must  be  quashed  ;  the  parties  to  which 
must  pay  their  own  cost.  If  any  party  thinks  the 
Administrator  is  about  to  sell  the  Estate  not  hav- 
ing power  so  to  do,  he  may  restrain  the  Adminis- 
rator  by  injunction,— [iVo.    277,  D.C.Colombo.'} 


June  1,  (0.) 
^4. — Kolombooffame  Vidahn  v.  Lokuhamy 
and  others. 

No   proxy   is   filed   from  the  3rd   defendant         Pleadings 
«ither  to  Rebeira  or  Fernando.  How  then  do  we  ^''"W  ^e  sign- 
find  their  names  to  pleadings  purporting  to  be  an  *j,g  party  him- 
admission  and  an  answer  ?     Either  the  Proctor  aeif,  or  aProc- 
who  holds  proxy  or  the  party  must  sign  ;  hut  not  tor  holding  a 
both.    The  Secretary  should  take  no  pleading  ex-  Proxj- 
cept  from  a  party  or  proctor  holding  a  proxy,  or  his 
■clerk.     In  the  former  case  the    party's   name 
alone  must  be  affixed  or  his  mark.     In  the  latter 
the  proctor's  name^one.  In  this  case  the  defen- 
:dant  must  be  allowed  the  benefit  of  his  answer, 
and  the  judgment  must  be  reversed. — l^No.  3581, 
D.  C,  Colombo^ 

•Tune  %  (0.) 
705. — In  re  Assen  Lebbe  Marlcer. 
Neyn-a  Marltan   v.  Neyna  Markan. 

The  Assessors  being  of  opinion  that  a  young     MahomedaB 
man  of  21  years  of  age  is  quite  competent  to  I'arties. 
manage  the  afiairs  of  the  Estate,  and  that  the  minhtration  to 
jieace  of  the  family  will  be  much  better  kept  and  a   young  maa 
the  general  interests  forwarded  by  the  appoint-  of  21. 
ment  of  the  applicant,  the  order  of  the  District 
Court  must  be  reversed  and  Letters  of  Adminis- 
tration be  granted  to  the  applicant ;  costs   to  be 
borne  by  theEstate.-[^No.32,296, D.C.Colombo.J 

June  9,  (C.) 
706. — Rajepakse  v.  Dingei  ihaniy. 

Judgment.  That  the  decree  of  the  DistriotCoiirt   ]sfi„degamir.e 
of  Colombo  No.  6  of  the  23rd  day  of  May  1841,  decreed  on  de- 
be  reversed  with  costs,  and  that  the  plaintiff  be  feult  ofpaying 
decreed  to  be  entitled  to  the  lands  in  dispute  as  Ottoo. 
being  the  sole  proprietor  of  the   Nindegamme 
Kanuggale,  to  which  th«y  belong  ;  and  thnt  the 
defendant  accordingly  be  decreed  to  pay  to  the 
plaintiff  as  tenant  of  the  above  Nindegamra*  the 
sura  of  £Q  for  Ottoo,  and  value  of  services  due 
on  account  of  the  above  lands.    And  it  is  further 
decreed  that  on  the  defencfant's  failure  to  pay  the 


IW«  [328] 

said  sum  within  three  months  from  the  date  of 
this  decree,  that  she  be  ejected  from  the  said 
lands  and  the  plaintiff  be  thereupon  put  in  posses- 
sion thereof.— [iVb.  2633,  D.  C.  Colombo.^ 

707. — Kin  e  Hattena   v.   Kirri  Hattena  and 
others. 

Plaintiff  con-      The  decree  of  the  District  Court  is  affirmed  ex- 

co3ts"ofDefen-  "^P*  ^^  *°  costs.     It  being  decreed  that  the  first, 

dants,       wlio  Second  and  third  defendants  do  pay   their  own, 

have  been  vex-  and  the  plaintiff's  costs  ;  but  that  the  plaintiff  do 

atiously  made  p^y  the  costs  of  the  seventeen  other  defendants, 

par  les,  ^^  ^^^^  appear  to  have  been  vexatiously  made 

parties  to  this  suit  by  the  plaintiff,  and  it  would 

be  very  hard  to  make  the  three  first  defendants 

therefore  pay  these  unnecessary  additional  costs. 

^[_Nq.  3657,  D.  C.  Colombo.'} 

June  II,  (0.) 
7O8. — Maymo  v.  Cando  and  another. 

living"  miles  ^^^  Interlocutory  Order  of  the  District  Court 
of  the  Court  is  reversed,  as  it  appears  by  the  Rules  that  wit- 
not  entitled  to  nesses  are  in  no  case  entitled  to  bStta  if  they 
Batta.  live  within  4  miles  of  Court.— [A^o.  6206,  JD.  C. 

Colombor[ 

709. — Don  Carolis  v,  Alwis. 

Where  Sure-  jt  jg  considered  that  there  is  no  order  of  the 
ille^aUv^  ^^"  District  Court  on  which  to  ground  an  appeal.  The 
ceeded  against  securities  appear  to  have  been  illegally  proceeded 
their  remedy  against  and  they  have  their  remedy  by  an  action 
is  by  action,     at  law.— [iVo.  4898,  D.  C.  Colombo.'} 

June  15,  (C.) 
710. — Kirri  Menika  v.  Mirapeliia. 
KandyanLaw. 

An  only  Judgment.  That  the  decree  of  the  District 
daughter  by  a  Court  of  Colombo  No.  6  of  the  22nd  day  of 
previous  mar-  May  1840  be  afiirmed  with  costs,  the  plaintiff 
ed^Vhalfthe  '^^''"S  entitled  as  the  only  daughter  of  Tickery 
father's  lands,  ^udianse  by  his  first,  marriage  to  halt  of  his 
lands. 


[13293  ^8*2 

The  Supreme  Court   considers  tbe  Deeds   of    Prescriptioi' 
loth  parties  wholly  undeserving  of  credit,   the  does    not  ran 
Exhibit  A.  filed  by  the  plaintiff  being  of  a  very  against     the 
suspicious  character  and  unsatisfactorily  proved,  ^^"    pending 
and  the  Exhibit  B.  filed  by  the  defendant  having  ijfefinterest''  ^ 
been  already  set  aside  in   the  former  case  2779> 
on  account  of  the  signatures  of  the  grantor  and 
attesting  witnesses  not  being  written  thereon,  so     •*■"     o  n  1  y 
that  they  have  clearly  been  fradulently  added  ^^{"f^^/jt  ^°|^ 
since;  from  the  whole  evidence  however  the  par-  rights    by    a 
ties  are  satisfactorily  proved  to  be  both  daughters  Deega   marri , 
of  Tickery  Mudianse  by  separate  marriages,  and  ^S^' 
his  widow  Lokohntni)  having  possessed  a  life  in- 
terest in  his  Estate,  the  defendant  cannot  main- 
tdn  now  any  prescriptive  title  against  the  plain- 
tiffs claim,  (as  recorded  by  tbe  District  Court  on 
the  further  proceedings)  because  the  plaintifi"  ac- 
quired a  right  of  possession  only  upon  the  wid- 
ow's death  which  has  happened  within  10  years, 
and  the  proviso  at  the  end  of  the  Clause  2nd  of 
the  Ordinance  8  of  1834  expressly  declares,  that 
the  term  of  prescription  shall  only  begin  to  run 
against  parties  having  estates  in  remainder  or  re- 
version from  the  time  they  acquire   a  right   of 
possession.     A  question  of  Law  has   been  also 
raised  by  the  Proctor  for  the  appellant,  whether 
the  plaintiff,  has  not  lost  her  right  to  her  father's 
property  by  her  Deega  maiTiage,  (which  is  fully 
proved ;)   and  the  defendant  being  married   in 
■Beena  is  therefore   entitled  to  succeed  to   the 
whole  of  his  property ;  but  it  is  laid  down  in  Mr. 
Sawers  Digest  of  the  Saffragam  Customs  p.  89, 
that  '•  the  daughter  being  the   only  child  of  a 
"  man's  first,    second,    or   third  marriage,    will 
"have  equal  rights  with  her  brother  of  the  half 
"  blood  in  her  father's  estate,  even  if  given  out 
"  inBeega,"  and  as  a  sister  of  the  half  blood  mar- 
ried in  Beena  could  clearly  have  no  preferable 
claim  to  the  brother  of  the  half  blood,  this  Court 
considers  that  the  plaintiff  is  entitled  to  an  equal 
share  with  the  defendant  in  their  intestate  father's 
land.— [A'b.  2765,  D.  C.  Colombo.^ 


^sts  [3302 

June  16,  (S.) 
At  Chambers. 
71 1 . — In  the  Matter  of  Anthonelia  Conderlag. 

Injunction  to      Anthonetta  Conderlag  alias  Anthonetta  Perera 
r  -' -iin  waste,  appearing  in  person  is  sworn  to  an  Affidavit. 
Ordered  that  the  said  Affidavit  be  filed, 
Mr.  Martensz  appears  on  behalf  of  the  said! 
Anthonetta  Conderlag  alias  Anthonetta  Perera, 
and  moves  for  a  Writ  of  Injunction  directed  to 
the  Agent  or  Acting  Agent  of  Government  of  the 
Western  Province,    his  Assistant  or  Assistants^ 
and  to  all  persons  concerned  directing  him,  anj 
each  of  them  to  desist  from  cutting,  rooting  up, 
or  othervf  ise  destroying  the  trees  and  plants  grow- 
ing in  the  garden  situated  and  lying  in  the  Dam 
Street  of  Colombo  and  in  which  the  house  at 
present  occupiod  as  the  office  of  the  said  Agent 
stands. 

Ordered  accordingly.* 
June  25.   (O.) 
712. — Slema  Lehbe  v.  Leva  Marhart. 
Where  the      Jn  this  case  the  Supreme  Court  on  reading  the 
^uestered   °  i^  Petition  of  the  defendant,  ordered  that  leave  he  giv- 
BuflScient    t  o  ^ii  *"  ^^  defendant  to  proceed  in  the  prosecutioa 
cover  the  judg-  of  the  appeal  noted  by  him  without  giving  secmi- 
ment  and  costs  ty  for  the  amount  of  the  judgment  or  for  the  costs 
no      secunty  jj^  appeal  J  provided  it  be  made  to  appear  to  the 

will  DG  rCQUlT"  ••  ■  *--  ^  ^ 

e\  in  appeal,  satisfaction  of  the  District  Court,  that  the  pro- 
perty of  the  defendant  which  has  been  seques- 
tered at  the  suit  of  the  plaintiif  in  this  action,  is 
sufficient  to  satisfy  the  amount  of  the  said  judg- 
ment, and  such  costs  as  the  plaintiff  may  proba- 
bly be  put  to  in  prosecuting  the  said  appeal. — 
\_No.  81259,  D.  a  Colombo.2 
,        _  June  30,  (O.C.S.) 

the    P  r  i  V  y      7lS.—Maliamadoe  Casim  v.    Welley  Appeii 

Council.  Cfietty,  and  others. 

A  surety  dy-      It  is  ordered  that  the  Appeal  to  Her  Majesty 

ing,  the  S.  C.  in  Council  be  allowed  on  giving  another  Security 

Tn'olher  Tul  \«  "^"^  "^  *«  «"«  ^1^°  i«  dead._[iVo.  84,  D.   C. 

stead.  Manar.2 

*  The  Writ  of  Injuction  issued  in   this  case  was  subse- 
quently (23rd  June  1842)  dissolved. 


[331]  1812 

714. — Ishnacl  Lehhe  Adinr.  v.  Miniie  Markai: 

It  may  Tie  doubtful  whether   there  is  any  rea-  At  what  stage,  -■ 
son  to  suppose  that  any  mistake  has  occurred  in      ?  P'*'''5'  ™" 
framing  the  32ud  Rule,  because  it  is  in  strict  ac-      "^^"'' 
cordance   with   the   Roman-Dutch  Law  on   the 
subject  "  Xon  eliam  interest,  quo  loco  jam  lis  sit, 
4-c.   {Voet.  Lib.  5.  Tit.  L  §  36.)  The  Judgment 
which  prevents  the  party  from  intervening  on  ac- 
count of  doing  so  at  too  late  a  stage  of  the  proceed- 
ings is  reversed,  saving  to  all  parties  all  other  ob- 
jections. [A'o.  31,533,  D.  C.  Colombo.  5".] 

715. — Baslian  Appoo  and  another  v.  Baba  Ap- 
poo  and  another. 

The  plaintiffs  sue  defendants  as  heirs  and  re-    Where  adeft. 
presentatives,  not  stating  that  they  are  sole  heirs  «  sued  as  heir 
pr  how  they  are  representatives,  as  Executors  &c.  '"'  '■epresenta- 
The  defendants  neither  admit  nor  deny  the  alle-  J^^^f^'j  ^h'Tw  that 
gation.   The  lands  are  not  mortgaged.     The  de- he  is  sole  heir, 
cree  of  the  District  Court  is  therfore  set  aside,  or  how  he  is  a 
and  the  plaintiflfs  are  allowed  to  amend  their  de-  representive. 
elaration  within  fourteen  days  from  notice  given 
of  this  decree  (otherwise  defendants  to  be  absolv- 
ed from  the  instance)  and  the  defendants  to  an- 
swer in  due  course  and  the  case  to  be  proceeded 
with.  [Ao.  33,878,  D.  C.  Colombo.  N.} 

September  14,  (O.) 

716. — Anna  Hamy  and  another  v.  Madelena 

Fernando  widow. 

Where    the 

The  libel  being  unintelligible,  the  decree  of  the  telligible,""the 
District  Court  was  set  aside  and  the  defendant  s.  C.  absolved 
absolved  from  the  instance.  [No.  8342,  D,  C.  the  deiendant, 
C6lotnbo.2 

September  15,  (O.) 

717 Silva  and  another  v.  Fernando  and  others. 

Action     a- 

The  purchaser  is  not  made  a  party  to  the  suit,  gainst  Auctio- 
the  Auctioneer  is ;  he  must  be  absolved  from  the  »eer- 


1842  [332] 

instance  with  costs,  and  the  case  is  remitted  for 
the  purpose  of  the  purchaser  being  joined.  £No, 
8907,  D.  C.  Colombo.'} 

718. — Perera  v.  Soseuw  and  others. 

Form  ofsu-      The  wife  should  not  be  joined  as  co-plaintiff. 

ing  on  behalf  and  the  Court  amends  the  title  of  the  cause  by  ad ' 

of  a  wife.  jjjjg  jq  tjjg  plaintifTs  name  the  words  "  who  sue 

for,  and  on  hehalfqf  Dona  Bastiana  Hamine  his 

wife"   the  usual  form  in  like  cases.  \_No  32,761* 

-D.  C.  Colombo  N.} 

719. — Batagedere  Gooneratne  Unanse.  y.  Bat- 
tagedere    TJnnajise. 
Seidarte  Unnanse.  Interyenient. 

Succession  to  The  decree  of  the  District  Court  in  this  case 
Temple  pro-  ^^^  affirmed,  subject  to  the  opinion  of  the  Judges, 
whether  the  plaintiff  as  pupil  of  Godegamuwe 
Unanse  had  any  and  what  right  ?  Whether  the 
the  bequest  of  Marepane  to  defendant  does  not 
become  void  on  defendant's  becoming  a  sectarian  ? 
Whether  the  property  does  not  devolve  to  any  pu- 
pils of  Marepane  if  any  such  are  in  existence  ? 
Or  whether  the  property  does  not  lapse  to  the 
donors  and  their  heirs,  or  to  the  Crown  ?  And 
subject  to  their  opinion  on  any  other  point,  which 
they  may  discover.  In  the  meantime  the  case 
was  referred  to  the  District  Court  to  ascertain, 
whether  the  defendant  was  professedly  of  the 
Amarapoore  sect  at  the  time  of  the  date  of  the 
Deed  of  Sacca  1743  from  Marepane  to  defendant  ? 
\_No,  2746,  D.  C.  Colombo.} 

October  6,  (C.) 

720. — Cattayen  Chelly  and  another  v.  Arnasa-^ 
lem  Modliar. 

The  Law  of      The  two  principal  questions  raised  on  this  ap- 

ment"onsTder-  P®^^'  "^'z-^st.  Whether  the Lawof  Namptissement 

ed.    '  has  been  introduced  into  and  is  in  force  in   this 

Colony  ?  and  2ndly  Whether  the  District  Court 


[333]  1842 

can  grant  Provisional  Sentencefor  payment  there- 
under, when  no  mention  thereof,  or  of  the  form  of 
process  thereon  is  contained  in  the  General  Rules 
and  Orders  for  regulating  the  practice  of  the 
District  Courts,  are  both  points  fully  settled  by 
the  previous  decisions  in  the  case  of  Gibson  v. 
Rodney  12th  November  1830.*  Clarke  v.  Sego- 
deen  Lehbe  Marcar  decided  on  1 1  th  November 
]835,t  in  Colombo  Appeal  8425;  and  in  Galle 
Appeal  2532,t  decided  on  9th  April  1836. 

The  Proctor  for  the  Appellant  (Mr.  Richard 
F.  Morgan)  has  vraived  the  other  objections  tak- 
en by  him  in  the  District  Court,  excepting  that 
he  contends  that  Provisional  Sentence  for  pay- 
ment cannot  be  granted  in  the  present  stage  of 
this  suit,  the  defendant  not  having  filed  any  an- 
swer on  the  general  merits,  nor  issue  having 
teen  yet  joined  thereon  between  the  parties ;  and 
also  that  the  defendant  is  entitled  in  this,  as  in 
ordinary  cases,  to  the  usual  time  allowed  for  an- 
swering viz.  8  days.  This  Court  is  however  of 
opinion  after  referring  to  the  authorities  cited, 
that  wherever  a  summons  with  a  copy  of  the 
instrument  upon  which  the  claim  for  Provisional 
Sentence  or  Condemnation  for  payment  under 
security  de  restituendo,  is  prayed  for  in  the  libel, 
has  been  personally  served  upon  the  defendant 
calhng  on  him  to  appear  on  a  day  certain  named 
therein,  and  to  then  acknowledge  or  deny  his 
handwriting  or  signature  to  such  instrument,  and 
to  shew  cause  if  he  has  any,  why  Provisional 
Sentence  for  payment  should  not  be  granted 
thereon,  the  defendant  must  on  appearing  on  the 
day  so  fixed  for  hearing  of  claim  for  obtaining 
Provisional  Sentence  peremptorily  answer  by  ver- 
bal pleading  to  such  claim  for  Provisional  Sen- 
tence ;  and  if  the  defendant  shall  upon  examina- 
tion acknowledge  his  hand  writing  or  signature 

*  Lorenz's  Treat:  on  Namptissement.  p.  1. — Mar.  Judg, 

p.  425  par.  2.  et.  seq. 
+  Lorenz's  Treat:  on  Namptissement.  p.  5, — Mar.  Judg. 

p.  430.     par.   4.  et.  seq. — Morgan's  Digest  p.   60. 

par.  2S8. 
%  Lorenz's   Treat:  on  Namptissement,    p.  14.  Morgan's 

Digest  ^.77.  par.  321,^ 


1842 


:334] 

to  the  said  instrument,  and  shew  no  sufficient 
cause  why  Provisional  Sentence  should  not  be 
granted  thereon,  as  prayed  for,  the  plaintiff  would 
he  then  entitled  to  such  Provisional  Sentence. 
But  if  the  plaintiff  omitted  to  serve  with  the 
summons,  a  copy  of  the  instrument  upon  whieli 
the  claim  for  Provisional  payment  was  grounded, 
then  the  defendant  would  be  entitled  to  demand 
such  copy  and  a  sight  of  the  instrument  previ- 
ously to  answering,  and  should  be  also  allowed 
in  such  case  until  the  next  day,  or  some  other 
early  convenient  day,  to  be  then  fixed  by  the 
Court,  to  answer  to  the  said  claim  of  the  plaintiff 
for  Provisional  payment. 

This  Coiirt  must  here  repeat,  what  it  has  ex- 
pressed in  a  former  decree,  that  so  far  from  the 
Law  and  Practice  of  Namptissement  not  being 
suited  to  the  mode  of  administering  Justice  in 
this  Colony,  it  seems  to  go  hand  in  hand  with 
the  main  objects,  vfhich  the  system  of  Judicature 
under  the  present  Charter  has  in  view,  viz. 
speedy  decision,  and  the  extracting  as  much  as 
possible  of  the  facts  from  the  lips  of  the  parties 
themselves;  and  the  provisions  in  the  Rules  of 
Court  for  the  mutual  examination  of  the  parties, 
and  that  their  verbal  statements  vfhen  reduced 
into  writing,  should  be  taken  as  the  pleading  of 
such  parties,  may  be  particularly  noticed.  In 
respect  to  the  Dutch  Civil  Law  authorities,  the 
Court  has  relied  chiefly  on  Foet.  Lib.  42.  Tit.  1. 
§6 — 14. — VanderLinden  pages  407  and  4l9,and 
FanLeeuwen  pages  586  and  699. — [_No.  35,001, 
D.  C.  Colombo,  iV.] 


721. — Demmer  v.  Van  Eyck. 

In  this  case  the  Order  of  the  Court  below  was 

On  Amend-  reversed  without  costs.    Per  Carr  J.— The  prac- 

ment  of  Libel,  jj^gjg^^^jjgj,g    ^   plaintiff  amends  his  libel  after 

morougMto  answer,  and  requires  a"  further  answer  from  the 

issue.  defendant  to  such  amendments,  he  must  take  out 

a  fresh  summons  for  the  defendant  to  appearand 

Practice  of  gjjg^^g^  t„  tj^g  amended  libel;  and  when  Provi- 

Na^mptiBse-  ^.^^^^j  Sentence  for  payment   under  security  de 


resfitiiendo  is  prayed  for  by  tjie  lilul,  [\\o  defen- 
dant may  tie  called  on  to  plead  by  verbal  answe.i 
to  such  claim  without  the  delay  and  Corni  of  filing 
a  written  an'swer  thereto  according  to  the  Rules 
of  Court  in  ordinary  cases  ;  and  the  Court  may 
tlrereou   grant  such  Provisional  Sentence with- 
oVlt  issue  having  been  joined  between  the  parties 
on  the  general  merits.    The  proper  course  in  this 
case  is  ior  the  plaintiff"  to  serve  a  fresh  summons 
on  the  firet  defendant  annexing  thereto  copies  of  . 
the  amended  libel,  and  of  the  instrument  upon 
which  the  plaintiff's  claim  for    Provisional  Sen- 
tence  is  founded,    calling    on  the  defendant  by 
such  summons  to  appear  and  answer  on  some  cer- 
tain day  to  the  phiintifF's  claim  for  Provisional 
Sentence  ;  contained  in  such  amended  libel,  and 
to  acknowledge  or  deny  his  signature  to  the  said 
instrument,  and  to  shew  case  if  he  has  anj',  why 
Provisional  Sentence  should   not  be   granted  as 
prayed  for,  when,  if  the  defendant  appears  on  the 
dav  so  fixed  for  hearing  claim  for  Provisinal  Sen- 
tence, and  acknowledge  his  signature  to  the  said 
instrument,  the  plaintiff  would   be  entitled,  to 
Provisional  Sentence  thereon  ;   unless  the  defen- 
dant could  shevv  either  on  the  facts  alleged  in  the 
lihel,  or  inspection  of  the   instrument,  that  the 
plaintiff  is  not  entitled  to  Provisional  Sentence 
thereon  ;  or  unless  the  defendant   then  produce 
some  instrument  or  document  in  the  handwrit- 
ing of,  or  signed  by  the  plaintiff  or  obtain  admis- 
sion by  the^ plaintiff,  upon  his  being  then  examin- 
cdj  from  which  the  Court  shall  be  satisfied  tliat 
the  plaintiff  is   not  likely   to   succeed   in  the 
ordinary  action. — See   Font.  Lib.  42.  Tit  I    § 
fi.  — 14 —  Vander  Linden  p,  407  and  419  and 
Van  Lcearveit  p.    58t)  and  699 ;  and  Cl'irke  v. 
Segodeen  Lehhe  Marcar  decided  on  11  th   No- 
vember 1835  ;    in  Colombo  Appeal    iVo.  8423  ; 
and  the  Galle  Appeal  Nu,  2532  decided  on  the 
9th  April  1836. 

As  the  plaintiff  applied  for  and  was  refused  a 
fresh  summons  in  the  District  Court,  both  parties 
are  decreed  to  pav  their  own  costs  of  this  Appc;il. 
[No.  35,460.  D.'C.  Colombo,  -S'.] 


i842 


l^^  L336] 

October  13,  (C.) 
722. —  Politiffii  V.   C/irisiia. 

not  rat^/dMi  '^^^^  proceedings  in  this  case  were  remanded 
on  his  own  l>ack  to  the  District  Court  to  hear  further  evidence 
land  so  as  to  on  both  sides  and  to  decide  the  case  de  novo.  Per 
•".j"'"e  his  Carr  J.— The  rule  in  Law  is  '•  Prohiheiur,  ne 
fence,  °""  "  ?'"*/"""«'  «'«  «"o.  quod  iiucere  poAsit  aliino,  et 
"  sic  utere  luo,  ni  alietnim  7.011  Iccdas." — The  de- 
fendant has  clearly  110  right  to  dig  a  new  ditch 
upon  his  own  side  to  close  to  the  plaintiff's  par- 
tition fence,  as  to  cut  the  roots  thereof  and  cause 
it  to  fall ;  and  the  neglect  also  of  the  plaintiff  im- 
mediately to  repair  the  injury  so  done  to  his 
fence,  would  not  defeat  his  claim  against  the  de- 
fendant for  damages  occasioned  by,  or  consequent 
on  the  above  wrongful  act  of  the  defendant.  The 
plaintiff  moreover  has  not  examined  his  witnes- 
ses as  to  the  amount  of  damage  suffered  by  him  ^ 
and  the  main  point  in  the  ease  also  appears  t& 
have  been  overlooked,  viz. — Whether  the  defen- 
fant  had  cut  a  fresli  ditch,  or  had  re-opened  only 
an  ancient  ditch,  which  had  been  wrongfully  fil- 
led up  by  the  i)laintiff.  [^No.  8284,  D.C.  CV 
lombor\ 

October  22,  (C.) 

723. — Latigslom  v.  Whiting. 

Grounds  for       William  Gardiner  Gumming  is^SAVorn  to  an  Af- 
transfcning   a  fidavit  which  is  read  and  filed. 
Buit  from  one       William  Henry    IVkiline/  appearing  in  persoH 
tjjjj."  afi&rms  to  an  Affirmation  whidi  is  read  and  filedr 

Mr.  Ciimming  on  behalf  of  the  said  W.  H. 
Whiting  thereupon  moves  upon  the  facts  set 
forth  in  the  said  Affirmation  and  in  the  said  Af- 
fidavit, that  an  older  may  be  })ronounced  trans- 
ferring the  above  suit  from  the  District  Court  of 
Colombo  No.  1.  iSctith  to  the  District  Court  next 
adjoining  thereto,  for  the  hearing  aud  decision 
of  the  said  suit  in  terms  of  the  36th  and  46th 
Clauses  of  the  Charter,   aud  fuither  moves  foF 


[3371  '^■'^ 

such  further  order   as  to  this  Ooart  may   seem 
meet. 

Mr.  B.  Morgan  appears  on  behalf  of  the 
plaintiff  opposes  the  said  motion  and  he  is  heard. 

ilfr.  Ciimmtiig  is  heard  in  reply. 

The  Assessors  deliver  in  their  opinion  that  the 
case  in  question  ought  not  to  be  transferred  from 
the  Disrici  Court  of  Colombo  No.  1.  South  to 
another  District  Court  of  Colombo  because  "  Mr. 
"  Lavgshio  the  District  Judge  is  aLawyer  and  he 
"  knows  more  Law  than  any  other  District 
"  Judge,  and  because  there  is  a  report  that  he 
"  does  justice  in  every  case  which  comes  before 
"  him." 

The  Court  dissents  from  the  opinion  of  the 
Assessors,  because  it  considers,  as  a  general  rule, 
whenever  a  party  objects  to  a  District  Judge 
acting  in  a  case,  upon  a  ground  which  would  be 
good  cause  of  challenge  to  him  as  an  Assessor 
under  the  6th  Rule  of  Section  VII,  viz  ;  "  on  the 
ground  of  direct  interest  or  near  relationship  to 
one  of  the  parties,"  the  Supreme  Court  ought  up- 
on the  application  of  such  party  to  transfer  the 
cause  to  the  next  adjoining  District  Court  under 
the  provisions  of  the  36th  and  46th  Clauses  of 
the  Charter.  The  District  Judge  in  this  instance 
is  objected  to  by  the  defendant  as  being  the  fa- 
ther of  the  plaintiff,  living  together  in  the  same 
house  ;  and  as  having  also  expressed  a  pre- con- 
ceived opinion  against  the  defendant  upon  the 
principal  point  put  in  issue  in  this  cause. 
The  several  authorities  cited  by  the  defendant's 
Proctor  from  Dutch  and  English  Law  Writers 
are  very  strong,  as  shewing  that  a  Judge  ought 
not  to  be  allowed  to  try  a  cause  where  he  stands 
in  such  close  relationship  to  one  of  the  parties,  as 
father  to  son  ;  and  the  Court  connot  be  guided 
in  this  matter  by  report  or  rumour  which  the  As- 
sessors state  as  the  reason  of  their  opinion,  nor 
could  the  Court  admit  any  legal  evidence  on  the 
point,  whether  any  District  Judge  thus  objected 
.to,  was  more  or  less  likely  from  his  general  cha- 
racter to  be  actually  biased  by  his  being  so  close- 


1W2  [338J 

ly  related  as  father  to  one  of  the  parties.  TL* 
Law  presumes  partiality  in  such  cases,  and  that 
every  one  has  the  natural  feelings  and  bias  from 
such  close  relationship,  which  it  generally  intends 
to  guard  against;  and  on  public  policy  it  will  not 
allow  any  individual  under  such  circumstances 
to  discharge  the  public  duty  of  a  District  Judge, 
an  Assesor,  or  a  Juror.  The  Court  therefore  or - 
ders  that  this  case  be  transferred  from  the  Z)/.v- 
iricl  Couit  of  Cotombn  Xo.  1.  South  to  the  Dis- 
trict Court  of  Colombo  No,  4.  Caltura.  \_ya. 
36,943,  D.  C.  Colombo  S.2 


October  27,  (C.) 

724. — Delkandura  v.  Hathanghamy  and  other?. 

One  of  Bcve-  '^^^  proceedings  are  referred  back  to  the  Di?- 
ral  co-h  e  i  r  3  trict  Court  to  hear  further  evidence  and  to  decide 
may  sueforhis  the  case  de  novo  ;  with  liberty  to  either  party  to 
phare,  produce  in  evidence  the  Hee  Lekam  Mitiyij,  and 

Commutation  Eegister  of  the  District  at  the  fur- 
ther hearing.  By  the  Dutch  Civil  Law  "  not- 
"  withstanding  any  one  has  joint  partners  in  one 
"  and  the  same  cause,  he  may  sue  any  one  at;  law 
"  for  his  share  alone,or  be  sued  by  another."(^«» 
Leeiiwen  Bk.  5.  ch.  3.  §.  11.  p.  524.) — .4.nda(j- 
cordingly  it  has  never  been  the  practice  in  this 
Colony  to  require  all  the  co-heirs  or  joint-owners 
of  land  to  sue  together  ;  and  if  they  were  com- 
pelled to  do  so,  it  would  in  some  Districts  owing 
to  the  minute  subdivision  of  landed  property  and 
the  number  of  co-heirs,  be  tantamount  to  a  total 
denial  of  justice,  as  it  would  be  impracticable 
in  many  instances  to  get  all  the  heirs  to  join  as 
co-plaintiffs  or  else  to  appear  as  co-defendants 
or  intervenients,  whilst  it  would  be  also  attended 
with  the  most  ruinous  expence  to  poor  parties. 
The  plaintiff  does  not  moreover  in  his  libel  dis- 
tinctly allege  himself  to  be  the  sole  proprietor, 
though  he  seeks  the  rent  and  services  due  to 
himself  without  mentioning  that  there  are  other 
co-heirs,but  he  can  only  recover  his  own  share  in 


[339]  li!->-2 

tills  suit;  and  if  he  clearly  luid  claimed  in  his  lilifl 
more  than  was  due  to  liim,it  would  only  affect  his 
lightto  costs.It  would  certainly  be  preferable  how- 
ever if  the  other  joint-owners  to  the  Nindegaine 
(beinpr  few)  were  parties  to  this  case;  and  should 
they  refuse  to  intervene  on  having  notice,  the 
plain liif  shall  be  at  liberty  to  amend  his  libel  by 
making  them  co-defendants,  if  he  be  advised  to 
do  so  by  his  Proctor.— [iVy.  336,  D.CColombo.^ 

November  3,  (C.) 

725. — Handakanda  v.  Yahapathamy  and  others. 

It  is  considered  that  the  Orders  of  the  District      The  D.  J's. 
Court  be  set  aside,  not  being  signed  by  the  Dis-  signature  isne- 
trict  Judge,  and  that  the  defendant's  appearance  ceasaiy  to  eve- 
be  properly  entered  and  the  answer  be  thereon  ^^     ''^'^''" 
received.  Under  the  7th  Clause  of  the  Rules  the 
District  Court  might  also  have  granted  redress, 
— [A'o.  4261,  D.  C.  Colomho.2 

726. — Ismael  Lebbe  v.  Leva  Markeii. 

The  variance  between  the  Libel  and  the  state-  Variance, 
ment  of  the  plaintiff  upon  his  examination  in 
respect  to  whether  the  plaitiflf  paid  the  money 
himself  or  paid  it  through  his  son,  is  not  fatal, 
because  the  rule  "  Qui  facit  per  alium  facit  per 
sc,  "  may  applied  there  ;  but  the  District  Court 
will  do  well  to  consider  the  circumstance  in  jud- 
ging hereafter  on  the  credit  due  to  the  plaintiff's 
evidence  in  proof  of  the  payment  of  the  j615. 
At. the  same  tiine  this  Court  is  inclined  to  make 
■  great  allowance  to  the  plaintiff  thereon,  from  his 
•  Libel  having  been  so  shamefully  drawn  out  by  his 
Proctor,  who  wholly  forgets  that  brevity  and 
clearness  are  the  principal  features  of  good  plead- 
ing, whereas  the  Libel  is  most  unnecessarily 
lengthy  and  confused  ;  and  the  Proctor  is  dis- 
allowed accordingly  his  costs  thereof  beyond 
the  first  sheet  of  120  words.  [No.  8319.  D.  C. 
Colom'ju.'J 


18'-^  [340] 

November  10,  (C.) 
727- — Perern,  Adnir.  v.  Don  David. 

Practice,  in  If  the  plaintiff  can  satisfy  the  District  Court 
cases  where  a  that  he  attended  during  the  day  fixed  for  trial, 
Tvoidlbli'  "b  ^"*^  "'''^  delayed  at  the  ferry,  the  case  shall  be 
sentonthedaT '''^^*°''*''^*°  the  List  of  Cases  pending  for  Trial 
of  Trial.  '  in  *he  said  Court,  upon  the  plaintiff's  paying  the 
defendant's  costs  of  the  dismissal  in  the  District 
Court,  and  also  of  this  Appeal.  The  plaintiff 
has  not  been  dilatory  in  the  previous  proceedings, 
and  his  present  excuse  appears  a  plausible  one, 
whilst  he  is  entitled  to  some  indulgence  from  Lis 
suing  as  an  Administrator,  otherwise  no  one 
■would  incur  the  liabilities  of  that  office.  The  prac- 
tice moreover  in  the  Districts  Courts  in  Colombo 
is  not  to  strike  any  case  off  the  List  for  default 
of  the  plaintiff's  attendance  until  the  rising  of 
the  Court,  the  cause  on  the  absence  of  parties 
being  postponed  to  the  bottom  of  the  List  for  the 
day  i  so  that  if  the  plaintiff  should  attend  during 
the  sitting  of  the  Court  on  that  day,  and  be  ready 
to  proceed,  the  case  would  be  then  heard,  though 
the  plaintiff  might  be  reprimanded  probably  for 
not  attending  earlier.—  [No.  9028,  B.C.  Cohmbo 
No.  4] 

72y. — Jllia%and  another  v.  Kirrihatta. 
Stale  Writs.  The  proceedings  in  this  case  were  remanded 
back  for  the  District  Court  to  hear  proof  on  both 
Presumption  sj^gg^  gg  (-q  any  of  the  property  seized  under  the 
former  AVrit  of  Execution  having  been  delivered 
over  to,  and  received  by  the  plaintiff  in  satisfac- 
tion of  his  demand.  And  Per  Carr  J. — This 
Court  is  not  inclined  to  favor  these  stale  demands 
after  a  lapse  often  years  under  old  Writs  of  Exe- 
cution for  the  recovery  of  petty  sums,  especially 
if  it  can  be  shewn,  that  the  defendant  has  for  a 
long  time  with  the  knowledge  of  the  plaintiff  been 
openly  in  possession  of  the  property  which  is  now 
sought  to  be  seized  under  the  renewed  Writ,  as 
a  presumption  would  arise  from  the  plaintiffs' 
laches  during  so  many  years,  of  the  debt  being 
satisfied ;  though  the  demand  be  not  barred  by 
prescription. — \_No,  5971)  £••  C.  Colombo7\ 


L.^lll"  1842 


129.-00)1  David  V.  Dc  Mel. 

The  Interlocutory  Order  of  the  District  Court     Motion  fo  a- 
is  affirmed.  .Tiie  plaintiflphas  not,  on  tlie  motion,  mend  must  be 
complied  with  the  4th  Rule,  which  requires  any  "1'°"  cause 
such  motion  to  amend  pleadings,  to  bo  made  up-  *''"-'^"'' 
on  an  affidavit  of  merits  "  or  other  suificieiit  cause 
shewn   to    the  satisfaction   of  the  Court."     Tiie 
plaintiiTs  Proctor  (Rlr.  VanHaghtJ  is  ordered  to 
pay  the  costs  of  the  said  motion,  and  of  this  ap- 
peal. [No.  4201,  D.  C.  Culombo,2 

December  5,  (C.) 

730.' — Tnmd  V.  Isa,  widow. 

The  plaintiff' should  amend  his  libel  bj'  stating     Allegation  of 
that  his  father  died  intestate  and  that  the  plain-  intestacy, 
tiff  was  his  sole  heir,  and  had  succeeded  accord-  r*'!'"!  "|!.v 
iiigly  to  all   nis  Jistate.     Ihe   heir  or   personal 
representative  of  the  deceased   husbfiud   of  the 
defendant  should  also  be  made  a  party  co-defen- 
dant, if  he  also  has  died  intestate,   and  she   has 
not  taken  out  Administration.  [No.  8685,  D.C. 
Colombo.^ 

'    L  731.' — Pcrera  v  Lokoa  Manika,  widow. 

The  decree    of  the  District  Court  is  set  aside      Ser\ice  of  a: 
for  irregularity,  and  the  defendant  to  be  admitted  notice  in  Eng- 
to  enter   her  appearence  and    answer.     It  does ''*|' ""  ''*-'"!" 
not  appear  on  the   Record, — excepting  by   ^'»e  ^^j^^il  J^^ -Y^^.. 
statement  thereof  in  the  Proctor's  motion,  and  in  ^j^^  <■ 
the  Petition   of  Appeal, — that  the  notice  of  mo- 
tion for  Judgment  was  actually  served  ;   and   if 
only  the  notice  in  English,  which  is  filed  in  the 
.  proceedings  was  served  without  any  Cingalese 
translation  or  copy  thereof,  as  stated  in  the  Pe- 
titon  of  Appeal,  it  is  certainly  not    "  due  iiolicc' 
iis  required  bv  the  7th  Section  of  the  new  Rules. 
[No.  4224,  i).  C.  Colotnlio.J 


732. — Deeningeij  v.  Memkhnim/  and    others. 

Examination  That  the  decree  of  the  District  Court  be  rever- 
<)  f  Witnesses  gg^}^  j^^^f  j-jjp  pggg  -^^  ggj.  j(j,vn  for  further  hearing, 
no  on  '^  when  the  witness  objected  to  will  be  examined 
together  with  the  other  witnesses  on  the  parties' 
lists,  whose  evidence  the  parties  may  respectively 
wish  to  be  taken  and  the  Court  will  then  decide 
the  case  tie  novo. 

The  District  Court  should  have  acted  under 
the  28th  Clause  Section  1.  wherein  it  is  provided 
that,  "no  party  shall  be  precluded  from  calling 
"  and  examining  any  witnesses  whom  theCoiiit 
"  shall  consider  necessary  for  his  case,  though 
"  their  names  should  not  appear  on  the  list  of 
"  witnesses,  and  though  they  should  not  have 
"  been  regularly  summoned  by  citation."  The 
defendant  in  this  instance  could  not  fairly  urge 
that  there  has  been  any  surprise  upon  him,  or 
that  he  was  really  misled  or  doubtful,  as  to  who 
the  witness  was,  so  that  he  could  not  make  any 
previous  enquiry  about  him,  and  come  prepared 
■with  evidence  to  discredit  or  rebut  his  testimony  ; 
the  District  Court  therefore, — as  he  was  a  most 
material  witness  for  the  plaintiff's  case — ought  to 
biive  admitted  his  evidence.  \_No.  2783,  D.  C. 
Colombu.~\ 

December  7.  (C.) 

733. — ValJy  Kahn  v.  Corjie  Cunjie. 

PowOT  to  ad-  The  Interlocutory  Order  and  Judgment  of  the 
Vance  cases  on  Distiict  Court  in  this  case  were  set  aside  with 
theTi-ial  Roll,  costs,  for  irregularity  ;  and  the  proceedings  were 
remanded  back  to  re-examine  the  witnesses  who 
gave  their  evidence  on  the  ]  3th  October  (the  date 
of  the  judgment,)  and  to  take  such  further  evi- 
dence as  the  parties  might  wish  to  adduce,  and 
to  give  judgment  rfe  novo.  And  yje/- Carr  J. — 
"The  9th  Section  of  the  new  Rule  of  the  2nd  July 
]842  requires  causes  to  be  entered  in  a  Book  or 
]jist  of  Cases  for  Trial,  in  the  order  according  to 
priority  of  time,  in  which  they  are  brought  to  be 


[343]  1842 

entered ;  and  that  the  said  causes  shall  be  called 
on,  heard  and  tried,  in  the  order  in  which  they 
shall  have  been  so  entered.  The  District  Court 
therefore  has  no  power  to  advance  this  cause  in 
the  list  for  hearing,  or  to  take  it  out  of  its  usual 
order,  without  the  consent  of  both  parties."  [^No. 
26,203,  D.  C.  Colombo  S.J 

December  8.  (C.) 

734. — Don  Abraham  and  another  v.  Punchy  Ha- 
my,  Admx.  of  the  Estate  of  Don  Andris  deceased.  mi^-hetTa 
Gentotte  Appoo  and  others.     Intervenients.      "^^ .  ^f  *he 
This  case  is  remanded  back  to  the  District  for  C  shire. 
Court  for  the  second  Intervenient  to  file  a  proper 
Petition  of  Intervention  setting  out  his  respective  Claiming  more 
title,  and  for  the  other  parties  to  file  their  an-  *''^°  '^  ^^  ^ 
swers  thereto,  when  the  District  Court  is  to  de-  abSl,   but 
cide  the  case  de  novo  upon  evidence.  Per  Carr  J.  may  affect  tha 
— ^The  plaintiff's  as  two  of  the  next  of  kin  had  a  costs. 
right  to  bring  this  action  against  the  Administra- 
trix for  their  shares  of  the  intestate  estate,  with- 
out joining  all  the  other  next  of  kin  or  co-heirs, 
asco-plaintiflfe; — CFan  Leeuwen  Bk.  5.  Ch.  3.  § 
II.  p.  524.J     And  if  the  plaintiffs  by  their  libel 
claim  more  than  their  share,   it  may  affect  theii: 
claim  to  full  costs,  but  it  should  not  deprive  them 
irom  recovering  what  is  due  to  them  with  costs 
according  to  the  value  of  their  real  share  or  in  the 
class  in  which  judgment  is  given  for  them.     It 
is  obvious  also   that  the  main  point  in  issue,  is 
whether  Don  Andris  possessed  the  whole  or  only 
one-fourth  of  the  property  in  dispute,  and  not 
whether  there  were  other  next  of  kin  or  co-heirs 
to  Punchy  Hamy  besides  the  plaiutLfis.     The 
joinder  of  the  second  Intervenient  as  co-plaintiff 
would  not  therefore  have  probably  obtained  an 
admission  of  the  plaintiffs'  real  claim  by  the  de- 
fendant and  first  Intervenient  as  suggested  by  the 
District  Judge.  INo.  21,550,  D.  C.  Colombo  N,J 

735, — Wama   Saibo  Moorish    Priest  T.  Bawa 
Saibo  and  another. 

The  proceeding  are  referred  back  to  tlie  Dif*  Hahomedaiuy 


1842  [344] 

Biffht  of  Moo-  *""*  Court  to  require  the  plaintiff  to  produce  in 
r  i  8  h  Priests,  evideuce  his  alleged  appointment  in  writing  ifram 
under  acts  the  Government,  The  defendant  shall  be  at  li- 
from  Govern-  \,^ty  also  to  put  in  eridence, — df  be  be  so  advi- 
ment,  «'="«»- ged,  On  inspection  of  the  decFee  of  the  District 
*  ■  Court, — ithe  judgment  in  former  suit  No,  2466, 

wherein  it  appears  thati:he  plaintiff  failed  io  es- 
tablish his  exclusive  right  by  custom  to  perform 
the  marriage  ceremony  amongst  the  Moors  -at 
Negombo,  and  the  whole  proceedings  in  tshe 
above  suit  fthall  thereon  be  appended  as  a  con- 
nected case  to  these  proceedings  and  returned 
thetewith  i.o  this  Court  for  its  'final  decision  on 
this  appeal. 

Notice  of  this  action  should  moreover  be  given 
by  the  plaintiff  to  the  Government  Agent,  in  or- 
dJer  that  the  Government  may  intervene  in  the 
case,  if  it  think  properto  maintain  its  sole  -right 
of  appoihting  the  Moorish  Priest  at  Negoffibo,  as 
well  as  to  adduce  any  further  proof  in  its  power; 
that  the  Priest  so  appointed  by  it,  or  the  Priests 
acting  under  his  license  or  permission,  can  alone 
perform  the  marriage  ceremony  amongst  the 
Moors  in  NegomVa.— :£iVb.  7659,1).  C.  Colombo  .^ 

December  9th,  (C.) 
'JZQ.-^Frandna   Fernando     widow  v.  Adrian 
and  others. 
Res  Judicata.      The  decree  of  the  District  Court  of  Colombo 
Prescription  ig  affirmed  as  to  the  dismissal  x)i  the  plaintiff's 
wiUM"? behefd  "^^^  to  the  garden,  because  the  decree  inHhe 
as'aTar,^  *    former  suit  No.  11,324  is  conclusive  agalnstihe 
plaintiff's'right  thereto,  and  she  cannot  seek  to 
set  aside  such  decree  in  this  case,  although  it 
may  really  have  been  founded  npon  wrong  evi- 
demce. 

In  regard  to  the  plaintiff's  right  however  to 
recover  back  the  purchase  money  of  £4 — 10,-the 
defendant  has  not  pleaded  in  bar  th^  proper 
Clause  of  the  Ordinance  for  Prescription  of  -ft, 
and  as  the  Court  never  favors  such  a  defence 
against  an  apparently  just  claim,  so  much  of  the 
decree  as  dismisses  the  plaintiff's  claim  to  reco- 
ver repaymentof  the  said  purchase- amount  of  ^64 


1315]  ^_^ 

-10,is  set  aside,  and  the  proceedings  are  remand- 
ed back  to  hear  evidence  on  both  sides  as  to  the 
game,  and  to  decide  the  case  de  novo  thereon. 
riVo.  316,3,  D.  C.  Colombo.'] 

December  12,  (C) 

737. — Sirrewardene  v.  Ran^hamy,  widow.      KandyanLaw. 
This  case  was  remanded  back  to  the  District     ■*-'^  ^^^  "*"" 
Court  to  hear  the  evidence  on  both  sides  as  to  ^ted^  ^thout 
the  plaintiflf  being  the  only  son  of  the  deceased  cause  of  disin- 
Arawegeddere  Naide  Hamy  by  his  first  marriage,  herison  stated 
And  Per  Carr  J. — ^The  evidence  hitherto  taken  '"  t*"®  Deed, 
in  respect  to  the  deed  filed  by  the  defendant  is  '"^I'li^CTeB^'^*" 
very  doubtful  and  suspicious,  though  the  defen- 
dant's witnesses  are  the  most  credible,  especially 
as  the  Olah  does  not  appear  to  be  a  new  one ;  but 
by  the  Kandyan  Law  it  is  clear  that  the  only  son 
and  heir  cannot  be  disinherited  by  a  voluntary 
Deed  of  Gift,  or  Will,  unless  the  cause  of  disin- 
herison he  expressly  mentioned  in  it ;  and  if  the 
plaintiff  be  satisfactorily  proved  to  be  the  only 
child  of  the  deceased  Arewegeddere  Naide  Hamy 
by  his  first  marriage,  this  Deed  would  be  wholly 
void  against  him,  and  he  would  be  entitled  not- 
withstanding it,   to  succeed  to  his  father's  lands, 
subject  to  the  life  interest  therein  of  the  defen- 
dant, as  his  fathers  widow;  unless  by  mutual 
agreement  they  like  to  divide  the  estate   by 
taking  half  each  [No.  3262,  D.  C.  Colombo.'^ 

December  16,  (0.  C.  S.) 
738. — Charles  Delegal  Agent  and  Attorney  of  F. 
Lambe  and  E.  J.  Darleif  Esquires  of  Colombo. 
Assignees  to  the  Estate  of  E.  H.  Brook  a  Bank- 
rupt— Plaintiff  and  Appellant. 

V. 

James  Davidson — Defendant  and  Respondent. 

The  Power  of  Attorney  given  to  the  Appellant   An  Attorney 
does  not  entitle  him  to  appear  in  Court  for  his  J^","°g^"^;"g"' 
Principals.     The  Charter  expressly  declares  that  authori^zedr 
no  person  can  appear,  plead,   or  act  for   another 
as  Advocate  or  Proctor  unless  admitted  and  en- 
rolled as  such.  INo-  13,884,  D.  C.  Kandy,  S. 
(Coll.) 

,au  THE  END, 


347  1843 

1M3.—Januart/  14,  (C.)  ~"~^ 

739.— TVedda  v.  Balea. 
There  are  no  prescribed  forms  of  adoption  under  Kandyau  Law. 
the  Kandyan  law,  which   are,  nevertheless,  very   ^^^0  jtion°re-^ 
strict  in  requiring  clear  proof  of  the  adoption  be-   quired  to  slic- 
ing openly   declared,   and   recognized  in   such  a   ceedasanheir. 
manner  as   can  leave  no  doubt  of  the  adopting 
party's  intention,  that  the  child    adopted  should 
thereby  succeed  as  an  heir  to  tlie  estate  of  the 
adopting  parent.     Thus,  it  has  been  held,  though 
a  child  may  have  been  reared  in  a  family,  and  con- 
tracted marriage,   and  dwelt  with  his  wife  in  the 
house  of  his  patron,  and  cultivated  his  lands,  yet 
such  circumstances  alone  would  not  be  construed 
into  a  regular  adoption,   unless  it  could  be  also 
shewn  that  by   agreement  with  the  natural  pa- 
rents of  the  child  on  its  removal,   or  by   subse- 
quent declarations  and  acts  of  the  adopting  party, 
a  clear  intention  was  manifested  by  him  to  adopt 
the  child  as  his  own  son,   and  to  make  him  an 
heir  to  his  estate.     [No.  3569,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

June  2,  (0.) 
740. — Lama  Naide  v.  Camis. 
"The  f'ourt  makes  the  person  called  the  fourth     n^x.    r     ^ 
defendant  a  defendant,  which  it  hadno  right  to  do.   j^^g  ^^  ^"^j.  ^ 
He  makes  a  statement,  and  so  do  other  defendants,   make  a  person 
or  persons  called  defendants,  which  are  not  evi-     a  ricfendant. 
dence  or  oral  pleadings,  not  being  signed  by  them    Statements  net 
as  directed  by  the  rule.  These,  therefore,  must  all  unless  they' are 
he  treated  as  nullities,  but  the  second  and  third  de-        signed. 
fendants  admit    quite     enough  to  warrant    the 
judgment,    which  has  been  given  to    apply    to 
them,"    [No.  8497,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


June  14,  (O.) 

At  Chambers. 

741 . — In  the  matter  of  a  male  child  of 
M.  S.  U.  Lebbe  Markar. 
"  It  appears  by  the  Mahomedan  Law,  Hedaya     Mahomedan 
B.  4,  C.  13,  that  the  maternal  grandmother  is  en-  Law.  The  Ma- 


1843 


348 


temal  grand- 
mother is  en- 
titled to  the 
care  of  the 
child. 


titled  to  the  Hezamit,  that  is  to  the  care  of  this 
child,  in  preference  to  his  father.  The  child, 
■who  was  only  born  in  December  last,  has,  since 
the  death  of  his  mother,  been  in  the  custody  of 
his  grand  mother,  against  whose  care  no  imputa- 
tion is  made." 


June  17,  (O.  C.  S.) 

742. — Mattambegammegedere  v.  Malpittia- 
gedere. 

Admissions  The  judgment  in  this  case  was  reversed,  and 

under  the       the  proceedings  were  remanded  back  to  the  Di  strict 

Ordinance  of    {^ovlyX,  to  take  evidence  on  both  sides,  and  proceed 

must    not    be   tojudgment.     "The  only  admission  of  the  plaintiff 

vague.  is  in  these  words,  hoe  offered  him  his  money  about 

ten  years  ago',  which  does  not  iimount  to  the  full 

time  required  by  the  prescriptive  Ordinance,  and 

is  in  itself  a  vague  expression,  and  occurring  on  an 

examination  sixteen  or  seventeen  months  after  the 

suit  was  instituted".   [No.  1321,   D.  C.  Kandy. 


Probate  when 
necessary. 


June  21,  (  O.  C.  S.) 

743. — Rajepakse  v.  Rajepakse. 

A  legacy,  and  appointment  of  executors,  con- 
tained in  a  Will,  held  sufficient  to  render  probate 
necessary,  and  to  sustain  the  Will  {pro-tanto,') 
although  the  remainder  of  it  may  beinva  id,  upon 
which  the  Court  gives  no  opinion.  [No.  51,  D.  C. 
Amblangodde. 


June  23,  (O.C.  S.) 

744.  —  Gooneratne  Unanse  v.   Batagedere 
Vnanse. 

Temples  held       Affirmed.     "  The  plaintiff  claims  the  temple  as 

in  Pooteyalika,   held  in  :  angilia    but   it    is  satisfactorily   proved 

maybe  that  it   is    held  in  Pijo<eya/(A«;  and  there   is  al^o 

^"layman  °^    evidence  that   templfs    leld  in  Pooteyalika  mwj 

be  granted  to  a  layman,  which  is  not  I'ebiitted  by 

the  plaintiff  or  intervenient".    [No.  2746,  D.  C. 

Colombo. 


S49 

745. — Jansz  v.  Figera. 

"Tlie  Courtis  of  opinion  that  Ihe  Ordinance 
No.  7  of  1834.  see.  2,  does  not  i-equifo  all  sales, 
&c.,  of  lamls,  or  a'reenients  tosell,  &c.,  to  be  in 
writing,  .aid  therefore  does  n;t  affect  the  point 
reserved. 

"The  Court  is  further  of  opinion  that  No.  2  of 
1817  beiiio;  repealed  by  No.  7  of  1823,  but  with- 
out saving  thercbj'  of  previous  Eegulations,  the 
Eeguiation  No.  1  of  1806,  which  had  been  re- 
penled  by  that  of  No.  2  of  1817,  thereby  revives, 
and  it  is  clear  that  this  Eegulation  does  not 
require  agreements  to  transfer  lands  to  be  in  wri- 
ting, and  consequently  the  allotment  in  question 
is  not  void".     [No.  17322,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


1S43. 


Frauds   and 

Perjuries. 

All    sales  and 

agreomi'iits 

need   not 

be  in   writinfj. 

Res.  !  of  18015 

does  not 
require   agree- 
ments to  trans- 
fer  land  to  be 
in  writing. 


746. — Kaloo  Meniha  \.  Pina. 

The  only  question,  in  this  case,  was    whether     A   Plaintiff 
the  witnesses  of  the   plaintiff  having  proved  a  P''°/"}S    Vy^' 
title  by  prescription  in  the    defendants,  the  latter   jjj  I'j^J  defen- 
weie  entitled  to  &  judgment  iu  their  favour  with 
costs. 


Judgment.  The  defendants  by  their  answer 
do  not  plead  prescription,  but  after  pleading 
other  matters,  aver  that  the  whole  of  the  plain- 
tiff's claim  is  false.  The  plaintiff  commences  his 
libel,  "plaintiff  claims  one-half  of  the  field  &c." 
The  evidence  add uc(id  by  himself  shewed  that  he 
could  not  have  any  claim  for  these  lands  which 
the  law  could  recognise,  inasmuch  as  he  proved 
undisturbed  and  uninterrupted  possession  by  the 
defendants  for  more  than  ten  years;  and  by  the 
Ordinance  No.  8  of  1834,  such  proof  entitles  the 
defendants  to  a  decree  in  their  favour  with  costs. 
[No.  3603,  D.  C.  Seven  Korles. 


dant,     entitles 

the   defendant 

to  judgment. 


747.- 


June  24,  (O.) 
-Mahammado  Lehhe  v.  Bawa  Lelbe. 


'The  District  Judge  has  no  right  to  interfere 
with  the  filing  of  documents,  as  such  filing 
does  not  make  them  evidence.  [No.  10086, 
D.  C.  Colombo, 


A  D.  J.  hns 
BO  right  to  in- 
terfere with 
the  filing  of 
document:). 


1843.  350 

""^  (O.  C.  S) 

748. — Mootoo   Mentha,    on   behalf  of  her 

children,  V.    Tikery  Menika. 

Custom  of  Judgment.  Decreemodifiedby  itsbeingdecreed 

Saffragam.      that  the  plaintiffs  are  entitled  to  recover  one  half 

Daughters    of  of  the  lands  in  dispute,    and  that  both  parties  do 

do^not' forfeit'^   P^^  *^®'''  °^^^  ^°®'®  '"  *^"^  ^-^^^^     '^^"^  ^^^®  ^^^^^^ 
by  any   deen-a  of  t-'i'^  second  and  third   plaintiffs  and  first  defen- 

marriage,  their  dants    having    left    issue    by  two   marriages,  his 

right  to  iiiherit  estate  should  be  divided  into  two  equal  portions, 

to  a  moiety  of  ^   ^j^    defendant    being   the  only   child  by  one 

their    parent's  .           .           ,.,,    ,  .     "         ■   ,         ei.                 i.. 

estate  in  favor  naarriage,  is    entitled  to  a  moiety    oi  her  parent  s 

of  their    bro-  estate,     and   would    not    forfeit  such   right    by 
thcrs  or  sisters  her  deega   marriage   in  favour   of  her  brothers 

There  appears  to  have  existed  a  difference 
between  the  Saffragam  and  Udderatte  customs 
on  this  last  point,  as  by  the  Saffragam  cus- 
toms a  deega  daughter  of  the  half  blood 
would  never  forfeit  by  any  deega  marriage  her 
right  to  inherit  a  share  of  her  father's  estate  in 
favour  of  her  brothers  and  sisters  of  the  half 
blood ;  whereas  the  old  Uderatte  customs  made  a 
distinction  in  such  cases  as  to  the  rights  of  the 
daughter  when  she  had  been  married  in  deega  by 
her  father,  and  where  she  married  in  deega 
subsequent  to  his  decease.  Yet,  this  distinction 
never  extended  to  the  mother's  estate;  and  even 
in  respect  to  the  father's  estate  it  does  not,  from 
the  cases  cited  at  the  bar,  appear  to  have  been 
adhered  to  or  acknowledged  latterly  by  the 
Kandyan  Chiefs,  (who  have  been  examined  in  the 
•  Supreme  Court  as  Assessors,  and  as  witnesses  to 
the  customs:)  the  more  liberal  custom  having 
generally  prevailed,  viz: —  that  the  daughters  of 
the  half  blood  do  not  forfeit,  by  any  deega 
marriage,  their  right  to  inherit  their  parents 
estate  in  favour  of  their  brothers  or  sisters  of  the 
half  blood.    [No.  1333,  D.  C.  Kandy. 

749. — Punclii  Kenika   v.  Tennekoongedere. 
Kandyan  Law.        Where  a  proprietoi  leaves  issue  by  two  marri- 
Ihe  issue    of  R,^es,  his  property  must  be  divided  intotwo  equal 


351  I8!3 


portions,  and  the  issue  of  each  marriage  is  entitled,  two  marriages 

to   inherit   a  moiety.     A    daughter  of  the   first  is   entitled  to 

marriage    does   not  forfeit  her  right  to  a  moiety  {"herit  a  mo- 

of  her  parent's  estate   by  her    deega   marriage,  ^  J^^j"  ^^^^^^^ 
in  favour  of  her   brotliers  of  the  half  blood,  who 
are   entitled   only   to   the   other   moiety.    [No. 
3574,  D.  C.  Matelle. 

JulyG,    (C.) 
750. — Buddaharaksite  v.  David  Appoo. 

In  this  case  the  decree  was  set  aside,  and  the    Government 
proceedings  were  remanded  back  to  the  District         Orant. 
Court  to  allow  the  plaintiff  to  give  notice  to  the   Oa^™f^'r°of 
Government  to  intervene,   and  for  the    District 
Court   to  hear  further    evidence,    and  to  give 
judgment  de  novo. 

The  plaintiff  claimed  under  a  Grant  from 
Government,  and  t!ie  real  question  between  the 
parties  was,  whether  the  land  in  dispute  was  the 
property  of  the  Crown  at  the  date  of  such  grant, 
or  whether  it  belonged  to  the  defendants. 

Judgment.  From  the  evidence  the  land  is  of 
a  description  which  would  come  within  the  pro- 
visions of  the  6th  clause  of  the  Ordinance 
No.  12  of  1840,  wherein  it  is  enacted  that 
all  chena  and  other  lands,  cultivated  at  in- 
tervals of  several  years,  shall  be  deemed 
to  be  forest  or  waste  lands',  and.  presumed  to  be 
the  property  of  the  Crown  until  the  contrary  be 
shewn.  The  defendants  cannot,  therefore,  rest 
their  claim  to  the  land  upon  the  weakness  of  the 
evidence  of  the  witnesses  called  by  the  plaintiff, 
because  the  onus  lies  on  the  defendants  to  adduce 
sufficient  proof  to  rebut  the  above  legal  presump- 
tion of  the  lands  being  the  property  of  the  Crown ; 
the  evidence  hitherto  adduced  by  the  defendants  is 
very  unsatisfactory.   [No.  33173,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

July  12,  (0.  C.  S.) 
751. —  Toussaint  v.  ilartensz. 
Hon.  A.  Duller,  Q.  A.,  v.  Racket,  administra- 
tor of  the  estate  of  J.  H.  Mooyaart. 
Judgment.     On  the  15th  February  1842,  the    Payment    of 
District  Court  made  an  order  in  the  case  No.  4,011    ^""-^  '^^  ^=^°- 


1843. 


352 


cntion.  Law  for  the  payment  of  the  amount  of  deposit  Under 
as  to  prefer-  the  writ  2,225,  to  the  estate  of  Verwyk.  Mr. 
cnce  and  con-  j^^jfig,.  opposed  this  application,  bolb  as  Proctor 
for  tlie  j)laintiffs,  and  also  as  Deputy  Queen's  Ad- 
vocate. On  the  17th  February  1842,  Mr.  Modder, 
as  Deputy  Queen's  Advocate,  made  an  application 
in  the  case  10,939,  that  the  amount  deposited, 
being  the  proceeds  sale  of  3rd  defendant's  pro- 
perty, miu-ht  be  paid  to  the  Crown  in  part  satis- 
faction of  the  judgment  of  the  16lh  February  in 
the  Crown's  favour,  which,  was  refused  on  the 
ground  that  the  District  Court  had  already  made 
an  order  on  the  15th  February,  for  the  payment 
in  favor  of  Verivyk's  Estate;  but  this  order  the 
Supreme  Court  ha?,  on  this  appeal  heard  on 
Circuit,  set  aside,  because  there  was  another 
applicant,  and  the  claims  had  net  been  investigat- 
ed and  the  priority  ascertained.  The  case  now 
comes  before  this  Court  on  the  appeal  by  the 
Attorneys  of  Vander Spaar,  (who  are  the  real 
plaintiffs  in  both  cases, )  against  the  order  of  the 
15th  February,  and  this  Courtis  of  opinion  tl*at 
a  sufilcicnt  claim  was  put  in  against  the  sum 
in  deposit,  because  the  same  was  still  in  custodia 
legis,  and  not  paid  over  to  tlie  creditor  who  took 
out  execution.  The  Dutch  Law  appears  conclu- 
sive on  this  subject.  Thus  in  Peter  Pectins  on 
Arrest,  p.  464,  §'  §  2,  3-  and  4,  it  is  stated,  "Tliis 
matter  is  treated  here  at  large,  and  appears  nearly 
to  have  created  the  distinction  between  judicial 
pledge,  id  est,  pignora  prcetoria,  which  is 
granted  without  previous  proceedings  at  law, 
for  the  securing  of  a  thing  in  litigation;  de 
quibus  num  2,  from  which  our  common  arrest 
and  attachment  does  not  differ  much,  nor  from 
pledge,  hoc  est,  pignora  judicialia,  seized  by 
virtue  of  execution  on  judgments;  (this  distinc- 
tion, however,  does  not  determine  the  case  by 
our  daily  practice,  because  it  is  a  general  rule 
amongst  us  that  arrest  gi-\-es  no  preference 
without  any  distinction,  even  in  pignora  judi- 
cialia,) and  arrest  in  execution,  which  i^ives  to  no 
one  a  right,  as  long  as  the  effectual  execution 
docs  not  follow  it,  that  is  to  sa"^',  as  the  executed 


353  1843 

property  or  the  proceeds  produced  therefrom, 
have  not  been  actually  delivered  over  in  the  hands 
of  the  creditor;  because  as  long  as  there  is  some- 
thing remaining;,  it  is  understood  that  preference 
and  concurrence  take  place,  and  that  every  one 
may  always  for  that  purpose  interpose  his 
claim,  as  the  execution  being  made  for  every  one 
each  retains  his  right.  For  which  purpose  also 
the  publications  of  sale  by  execution  are  made  in 
order  that  everyone  may  prefer  his  claim  if  he 
has  any.  See  Instructions  of  the  Court,^  art. 
176  and  177.  This  had  been  adjudged  in  revi- 
sion by  the  Supreme  Couft  on  the  27th  February 
1652,  on  a  certain  Petition  presented  by  Aelbrecht 
Erasmus  Heerinan  against  the  Superintendent 
of  the  dams  and  dykes  of  the  great  Dykes  of 
Aelsmeer,  plaintiff,  in  arrest  in  execution  on  the 
moveable  goods  of  Gerrit  Tresveld,  sheriff  of 
Aelsmeer,  against  the  delivery  of  the  proceeds  of 
the  goods  sold,  and  the  prayer  for  injunction 
granted  against  the  payment  of  the  proceeds  in 
execution.  In  which  c;ise  it  has  been  distinctly 
adjudged  that  as  the  plaintiff  has  not  opposed  the 
sale  or  execution,  which  he  approved  as  being 
well  and  rightly  done,  but  only  prosecuted  his 
right  to  the  proceeds  produced  of  the  goods  sold, 
he  was  admissible  as  long  as  the  same  were  not 
paid  over.  For  which  purpose  in  some  towns 
are  particular  statutes  that  the  sheriffs  are  bound 
not  to  pay  over  to  the  triumphant,  the  proceeds 
sale  in  execution  which  they  receive,  but  to  bring 
the  same  into  the  Court  to  be  distributed  there 
after  inquiring  into  the  matter.  See  Statutes  of 
Ley  den,  art.  197  in  fine.  Eo  etiam  spectare 
videtur  decisio;  Anton.  Fabri  ad  tit.  Cod.  de 
execut.  rei  jud.  lib.  7.  tit.  20,  defin.  5;nbi 
refert  quodjudicati  actio  non  habeat  privili- 
gium  taciti  pignoris  ;  atque  ideo  non  aliter 
condemnaii  bona  pignori  capi  possint  quam  si 
condemnalo  intra  stafvium  tempus  non^  satis- 
facienti,  hoc  ipsuw  judex  statuaf.'" 

The  Court  further  refers  on  this  point ,  to  the 
following  passage  from  Peter  Vroman's  Treatiso 


184S.  354 

de  Foro  Competenti,  B.l,  c.  3,  pp.  122  and  123. 
"At  Utrecht,  attachment  by  execution  gives 
right  of  preference.  Vide  Consultations  of 
Utrecht,  vol  ii.  cons.  134.  But  with  us  this  has 
not  been  adopted  in  practice.  According  to  the 
common  rule,  arrest  gives  no  priority  or  prefer- 
ence. Therefore  with  us,  in  regard  to  preference, 
there  is  no  distinction  made  between  arrests, 
which  are  granted  without  previous  proceedings 
at  law  for  securing  a  litigious  cause,  and  arrests 
in  execution.  Because  even  in  i-egard  to  the 
last,  he  that  obtains  execution  first  does  not 
amongst  us  acquire  any  right  over  all  others, 
as  long  as  the  property  seized,  or  the  proceeds 
produced  therefrom,  has  not  in  fact  been  delivered 
over  to  him,  up  to  which  time  every  one  is  at 
liberty  to  interpose  his  claim,  because  until  such 
time  it  is  considered  that  preference  and  con- 
currence have  place,  and  that  the  execution  was 
made  on  behalf  of  all  and  every  of  the  creditors, 
saving  to  each,  however,  his  right;  as  has  been 
adjudged  on  the  27th  February  1652  by  the 
Supreme  Court  in  revision  on  the  petition  pre- 
sented by  Augustus  Erasmus  Heernian  against 
the^Inspectors  of  the  dams  and  dykes  of  the 
great  Dam  of  Aelsmeer,  plaintiflf"  in  arrest  in 
execution,  and  the  prayer  for  injunction  against 
the  payment  of  the  proceeds  in  execution  granted." 
The  order  of  the  15th  day  of  February  1842 
must  therefore  be  set  aside,  and  the  amount 
deposited  be  paid  to  all  claimants  according  to 
their  legal  priorities.  Each  party  to  bear  their 
own  costs,  excepting  such  costs  as  m^iy  have  been 
caused  by  the  new  libel  not  having  been  filed  in 
time  which  must  be  borne  by  iplaintiffs.  [No. 
4011,  D.  C.  Jaffna  ;  and  No.  10939. 


752. — Silva  V.  Juan  Naide, 

Triple  costs  '^'^®  Supreme  Court  have  not  been  able  to  find 
that  the  District  Courts  have  any  authority,  by 
the  Dutch  Law,  to  award  triple  costs.  [No. 
8931,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


355 


1843. 


August  30,  (C.) 
753. — Perera  v.  Neina  Lebbe. 
The  conviction  and  sentence  in  this  case  tvas 
reversed,  the  Court  not  having  proceeded  accord- 
ing to  the  19th  Rule  of  sect.  n.  of  the  Eules  and 
Orders  of  the  District  Court  for  the  prosecution 
and  punishment  of  Contempts.  [No,  9624,  D.  C. 
Colombo^ 


Proceedings 
in  cases  of 
Contempt. 


Aug.  31,  (C.) 
1 54:.— Fernando  v.  Rodrigo. 

A  Court  has  no  power  to  cancel,  obliterate 
or  alter  any  private  map  or  survey  which  a 
party  may  have  bad  made  of  his  land,  merely  on 
account  of  the  respective  boundaries  of  the  por- 
tions which  he  holds,  separately  and  in  com- 
mon, not  being  correctly  defined  thereon  j  though 
a  Court  can  reject  any  such  survey  in  proof, 
or  record  its  opinion  upon  the  general  evidence, 
shewing  its  incorrectness.  [No.  9247,  D.  C. 
Colombo. 


The  Court 

cannot  alter 

any  private 

map  owing  to 

its  incorrect- 


iSfov.  15,  (0.) 
755. — Odoma  Lebbe -v.  Sinne  Lebbe  Mafkan. 

"  Neither  the  Libel  nor  the  Lease  make  any 
mention  of  the  planter's  share.  When  one  leases 
land  ot  claims  it  in  a  libel,  h6  leases  or  claims 
the  land  and  all  that  is  on  it.  If  the  defendants 
claim,  as  they  have  done,  something  on  this  land, 
it  is  for  them  to  make  good  their  claim,  if  they 
be  out  of  possession.  Therefore,  the  order  di- 
recting the  plaintiffs  to  prove  their  title  to  the 
planting  share  must  be  set  aside,  and  the  plaintiffs 
must  file  a  reply ;  thereby  issue  can  be  joined 
as  to  whose  property  the  planter's  share  is,  without 
the  necessity  of  any  fresh  action."  [No-  10228, 
D,  C.  Colombo. 


Pleading  in 

an  action  on 

a  Lease. 


J\fov.  23,  (0) 

156.— Sultan  Sayboe  v.  Sinne  Pulle  Markar. 

On  the  20th  day  of  January  1843  judgment 

was  given  by  default  in  plaintiff's  favour,  and 

appeal  was  entered  in  due    time;   but  on    the 


Jtidgment 

by  default. 

Motion  to  open 


1843  356 

up  judgment  25th  a  motion  was  made  under  the  38th  Rute 
when  rightly  of  Court,  on  behalf  of  the  defendant,  that  the 
rejected.  judgment  should  be  set  aside,  and  the  defendant 
be  allowed  to  put  in  his  answer.  The  District 
Court,  on  the  1st  July  1843,  refused  the  appli^ 
cation  on  the  ground  that  it  had  not  power  to 
set  aside  its  own  final  judgment. 

On     appeal     the   following  judgment    was 
pronounced: — 

If  it  were  necessary  to  the  Supreme  Court 
in  this  case  to  decide  this  point,  it  would 
reserve  it  for  the  consideration  of  the  Judges 
collectively.  But  the  Supreme  Court  considers 
that  the  application  was  rightly  rejected,  as  thp 
defendant  in  this  case  was  not  in  a  condition  to 
take  the  benefit  of  the  rule,  inasmuch  as  he  never 
could  show  that  he  was  prevented  from  appear- 
ing in  due  time  by  accident  or  misfortune,  or  by 
not  having  received  information  of  the  p;*oceed- 
ings,  inasmuch  as  he  did  appear  and  was  repre- 
sented by  his  Proctor  during  the  whole  proceed- 
ings. There  is  nothing,  so  far  as  appears,  to' 
have  prevented  him,  before  his  departure  for  the 
Coast,  to  have  furnished  his  Proctor  with  full 
instructions,  not  only  for  answer,  but  for  the  con- 
duct of  the  case  until  its  determination;  and  he 
might  have  communicated  with  him  in  the  course 
of  a  few  days  even  whilst  absent,  and  obtain- 
ed time  to  take  any  particular  step  if  required. 
Ifit  was  necessary  to  proceed  to  the  Coast  to  ob- 
tain information  to  defend  the  suit,  the  defendant 
should  before  his  departure  have  applied  to  the 
Court  for  time  on  the  above  mentioned  ground. . 
But  he  leaves  the  Island,  and  he  leaves  also  his 
case  to  his  Proctor  without  instructing  him  how 
to  proceed  in  the  very  next  stage  of  the  case. 
Can  he  complain  if  the  plaintiff,  who  instituted 
the  suit  in  March  1842,  presses  for  and  obtains 
judgment  in  January  1843?  He  has  no  equity 
that  this  Court  can  discover,  to  induce  it  to  reverse 
the  order  of  the  District  Court  of  the  1st  day  of 
July  1 843,  which  is  therefore  affirmed  with  costs. 
[No.  35663,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


357 


1843. 


757. — Bawa  Saiboe  v.  Saiboe  Lebbe. 

There  is  no  law  of  which  the  Supreme  Qourt 
is  aware,  which  compels  the  defendant  to  put  in 
his  answer  before  the  plaintiff  can  be  called  on  to 
give  security  for  costs.  As  there  is  no  entry  in 
the  diary  relative  to  what  took  place  on  the  de- 
fendants being  allowed  to  sue  in  forma  pauperis, 
the  District  Judge  will  certify  to  the  Supreme 
Court  whether  the  plaintiff  was  asked  whether 
he  had  any  opposition  to  make  to  the  defendants 
being  admitted  to  sue  as  a  pauper  under  the  45th 
and  46th  Rules  of  Court.  [No.  9783,  D.  C. 
Coiombo. 


Security  for 
costs. 
Plaintiff  must 
be  asked  weth- 
lie  has  any  op- 
position to  the 
defendants  be- 
ing admitted 
to  sue  as  a  pau- 
per. 


758. — Silva  V.  Perera. 

Fernando,  intervenient. 

An  intervenient  who  intervenes  to  justify  the 
title  of  defendant,  cannot  be  non-suited.  [No, 
8563,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


Intervenient^ 
cannot  be 
non-suited. 


Nov.  24,  (0.) 
759. — Lebbe  Markar  v.  Lebbe  Markar. 
"No  ground  is  laid  for  obtaining  a  Sequestration,       When  Se- 
aburthensome  and  expensive  process  which  should     "^"^^ff  ^^g 
not  be  granted  unless  under  an  imperative  ne-        wanted 
cessity,"     [No.  10324,  D.  C.  CoZom6o. 


760. — Fernando  v.  Baba  Hamy. 

If  parties  wish  cases  to  be  reserved  for  collec- 
tive decision,  the  Supreme  Court  expects  that 
the  appellant  will  appear  in  support  of  his  appeal. 
In  the  present  case  the  Court  was  of  opinion  that 
the  only  question  of  nicety  was  whether  the  receipts 
were  receivable  under  the  Stamp  Act,  and  the 
Court  was  of  opinion  that  they  were  admissible  un- 
der the  clause  which  exempts  Bills,  Notes,  Ee- 
ceipts  and  Acquittances  made  or  given  to  or  by 
Government,  or  any  of  the  public  officers  thereof, 
[No  .8948,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


Admissi- 
bility of  un- 
stamped 
Eeceipts. 


1843. 


Non-payment 
of  costa  in  a 
previous  case 
is  no  bar  to 
another  case 
against  the  in- 
terYement, 


358 

761. — Fernando  t.  Fernando, 

"The  Supreme  Court  does  not  see  why  the 
plaintiff  should  not  be  allowed  to  go  on  with  the 
case  against  the  intervenients,  because  he  has  not 
paid  defendants'  costs  in  former  cases."  [No. 
i0577,  D,  C.  Cqlombo, 


Nov.  28,  (O.) 

762. — Meapulle  y.  Meera  Lebbe. 

Gasim  Lebbfi,  intervenients. 

Clear  title  If  parties  are  to  be  allowed  to  intervene  it  must 

to     intervene  only  be  on  shewing  a  clear  title  so  to  do  by  their 

must    appear  petition  of  intervention.    [No.  8049,  D.  C.  Co.-. 
on  the  petition   f^^j^_  I- 


359  J844. 

iehruary  13,  1844,  (C.)  ^~^ 

763. — Mendis  v.  Silva. 

la  this  case  the  appeal  was  rejected,  the  parties    Requirements 
having  omitted  to  give  security  within  due  time,  of  Security  in 
and  the  proceedings  not  being  accompanied  with        Appeal, 
any  certificate  of  the  Secretary,  or  report  that  it 
had  been  proved  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  District 
Court  that  such  omission  of  the  appellant  was  not 
imputable  to  negligence  or  delay  on  his  part, 
[No.  3524,  D.  C.  Ambtangodde, 

Feb.  14,  (C.) 
764. — Cowjee  Eduljee  v.  Ismail  Lehbe  Markar. 

The  appeal  in  this  case  was  allowed  without  .    Security 
security,  under  the  exception  in  favor  of  interlo-  ^1^^1^00.1  °" 
cutory  orders  contained  in  the  3rd  clause  of  sec-        Orders. ""^^ 
tion  vii,  of  the  Sules  of  Court. 

<'The  question  appears  settled  by  the  Dutch  Law 
authorities  quoted,  that  provisiong-l  sentences  and 
decrees  not  being  definitive,  though  they  have 
sometimes  the  force  of  definitive  sentences,  are 
still  typically  {oneigentlyK)  comprehended  under, 
or  come  within,  the  denomination  of  iaterlocutory 
sentences;  and  the  Court  does  not  consider  itself 
justified  in  putting  a  limited  construction  on  the 
general  exception  in  favor  of  aU  interlocutory 
orders  in  the  above  rule,  so  as  to  exclude  any 
sentences  that  are  of  an  interlocutory  class  or 
nature.  As  an  instance  that  the  Court  has  hi-  "Interlocu- 
therto  considered  the  terms  "interlocutory  orders"  tory  order"an(i 
and  "interlocutory  decrees,"  as  often  xised  syno-  aecre?s"''syno^ 
nymously,  being  both  comprehended  under  the  nymous, 
general  Latin  term  of  sententia  interlooutoria,  , 
and  the  Dutch  word  "  interlqqueeren,"  the  Court 
may  here  refer  to  the  practice  on  judgments  over- 
ruling pleas  or  demurrers,  and  condemning  the 
defendant  to  answer,  which  are  called  "interlocu- 
tory decrees,"  (Van  Leeuwen  p.  628.)  They  affect 
the  principal  question,  and  have  the  force  of  a 
definitive  sentence  on  the  point  of  defence  raised 
in  the  plea  or  demurer.  Yet  appeals  from  such 
interlocutory  orders  or  sentences  have  always  been 
^owed  without  security. 


1844. 


360 


Process  to 
enforce  sen- 
tence of  Nap- 
tissement  is 
interlocutory. 


"  On  behalf  of  the  respondent  the  Court  has  had 
strongly  pressed  upon  its  consideration  that  exe- 
cution may  issue  under  a  provisional  sentence  of 
Namptissement,  wherein  it  materially  differs  from 
an  interlocutory  order  which  ought  to  be  enforced 
by  attachment  for  contempt;  but  the  Court  views 
the  process  to  enforce  the  sentence  of  Namptisse- 
ment as  only  inlerlocutory:  like  a  sequestration, 
it  deposits  the  sum  which  is  in  dispute  between 
the  parties  provisionally,  with  the  plaintiff,  upou 
his  giving  sufficient  security,  instead  of  its  remain- 
ing in  the  hands  of  the  defendant,  pending,  and 
subject  to,  the  final  issue  of  the  cause."  [No. 
37269,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


"Days"  how 

reckon'dnnder 

Bules  and 

Orders. 


April  19,  (S.) 

765. — Ahamado  Lebbe  v.  Sultan  Marikar. 

In  all  cases  in  which  by  the  Rules  and  Practice 
of  the  Courts,  any  act  is  required  to  be  done 
within  a  particular  number  of  days,  the  same  shall 
be  reckoned  exclusively  of  the  first  day,  and  in- 
clusively of  the  last  day,  unless  the  last  day  shall 
happen  to  fall  on  a  Sunday  or  public  holiday,  in 
which  case  the  time  shall  be  reckoned  exclusively 
of  that  day  also.     [No.  4762,  D.  C.  Colombo, 


Whether  and 
when  a  Snp- 
pletoiy  Oath 
is    reoeiyahle. 


May  4,  (S.) 
766. — Francina  Dias  v.  David  Perera. 

In  this  case  the  interlocutory  order  was  set 
aside  subject  to  the  opinion  of  the  Judges  collec- 
tively on  the  following  points : 

1st.  Whether  the  oath,  which  the  plaintiff  moves 
to  be  allowed  to  take,  is  of  the  nature  of  suppletory 
oath,  and  to  be  allowed  only  where  a  semiplenary 
proof  already  exists  or  is  essential  to  the  mainten- 
ance of  the  action; 

2nd.  Whether  it  now  subsists  by  Law;  and 

3rd.  Whether  it  must  be  allowed  in  this  actioi^, 
[No.  35800,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


361 


1844. 


^67. — Ackland,  Boyd,  ^  Co.  v.  Kasy  Lebbe 
Markar. 
Robert  Langslow,  Esquire,  files  an  affidavit     Application 
verified  on  oath  before  the  District  Judge    of  for  a   Manda- 
Colombo  No.  1,  South,  stating  "that  more  than     mns  on  ap- 
"3  years  ago  he  was  by  virtue  and  in  pursuance  ^°an  Acting" 
"  of  Her  Maj  esty's  Royal  Warrant  under  the  Sign  DistrictJndge. 
"Manual,    constituted    and    appointed  District 
"Judge  of  the  District  Court  of  Colombo  No.  1, 
"  South,  within  this  Island.     That  he  was  never 
"removed  from  the  said  office  of  District  Judge, 
"  btherwise  than  by  or  so  far  as  a  certain  letter 
"  addressed  to  him  the  said  Robert  Langslow, 
"  and  signed  by  the  Secretary  to  the  Government 
"  of  the  said  Island,  and  its  accompanying  docu- 
"  ment,  can  be  construed  or  considered  to  effect 
"  such  removal.     The  said  letter  is  dated  the  11  th 
"December  1843,  and  is  in  the  following  terms: — 

'Sir, 

'  Your  exculpatory  statenient  dated  the  20th 
'  ultimo,  and  yourjletters  of  the  8th  September  and 
'  7th  December  last,  having  been  laid  before  the 
'  Governor  and  Executive  Council,  I  am  directed 
'  to  inform  you  that  the  same  have  been  carefully 
'considered,  and  that  His  Excellency  and  the 
'  Executive  Council  are  of  opinion  that  no  ground 
'  whatever  has  been  shewn  why  you  should  not 
'  be  suspended  from  office  on  the  charges  already 
'  communicated  to  you;  and  I  am  now  to  transmit 
'to  you  an  order  made  by  the  Governor  and  Ex- 
'ecutive  Council  suspending  you  from  the  Office 
'  of  District  Judge  of  the  District  Court  of  Co- 
'lombo  No.  1,  South,  and  you  will  be  pleased  to 
'hand  over  that  Office  forthwith  to  Mr.  Temple, 
'who  has  been  appointed  to  act  as  District  Judge 
'  in  your  room. 

'  I  have,  &c., 
'Signed    P.  Anstruther,  Col.  Secj. 

'  The  accompanying  document  in  the  said  letter 
'is  as  follows:— 

'  Extract  from  the  Minutes  of  the  Executive 
'  Council  held  at  the  Council  Room  at  Colombo- 
•on  Monday  the  1 1th  day  of  December  1843. 


1844 


362 


'It  is  ordered  that  Bobert  Lang  slow,  Esquire,  b^ 
'  suspended  from  the  Office  of  District  Judge  of 
'Colombo,  No.  1,  South. 

'  A  true  Extract. 

Signed,      William  Charles  Giisort, 
Clerk  to  the  Council; 

And  further  verifying^— "  that  he  did  on  the 
"  11th  day  of  December,  reside  within,  thei  said 
"  District,  and  has  continued  to  do  so  ever  since, — 
"  and  that  he  has  during  all  that  period  been  ready 
*'  and  ■hriUing  at  all  times  to  perform  the  functions 
■"  and  execute  all  the  duties  of  the  said  District 
'"  Judgeship.  And  the  said  deponant  has  been  in- 
■"  formed  and  verily  believed  that  the  gentleman 
"  now  performing  the  duties  of  Judge  of  the  said 
"  District  Court,  acts  as  such  by  no  other  autho- 
"  rity  than  the  appointment  of  the  Governor  of 
"  the  said  Island." 

The  said  affidavit  is  read  and  filed. 

The  said  Mr.  Langslow  thereupon  moves  for 
a  Mandate  in  the  nature  of  a  Writ  of  Prohibition 
to  issue  to  the  South  District  Court  of  Colombo, 
on  account  of  the  incompetency  of  the  said  Court, 
arising  from  the  illegal  and  defective  appointment, 
of  the  Acting  Judge. 

It  is  ordered  that  the  said  motion  be  reserved 
for  oollective  decision  and  direction  generally.* 
[No.  40797,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


SecTjrity 

Bond     caBnot 

be  signed  by  a 

Proctor,  unless 

authorised 

thereto.  ' 


May  21,(0.  C.  S.) 
768. — Rajepakse  v.  de  Silva. 
"The  proceedings  in  this  case  having  been  read, 
all  the  Judges  agree  that  the  Security  Bond  is  bad. 
They  are  of  opinion  that  the  proxy  does  not  au- 
thorize the  Proctor  to  whom  it  is  given,  to  sign 
the  Security  Bond  in  Appeal.  The  Chief  Jus^ 
tice,  and  Senior  Puisne  Justice,  (the  second 
Puisne  Justice  dissenting,)  are  of  opinion,  from; 
the  analogy  of  the  practice  in  the  House  of  Lords 
and  Privy  Council,  and  from  the  address  and 
nature  of  the  Petition  in  Appeal,  that,  strictly 
speaking,  it  is  business  which  ought  to  be  done 

*  Motion  subsequently  refused. 


363 


1844. 


by  a  Proctor  of  the  Supreme  Court.  But  the 
whole  Court  is  of  opifiion  that  iu  the  present  state 
of  the  out-station  Courts  as  regards  Proctors,  it  is 
not  practicable  to  confine  this  biisiness  to  Proctors 
of  the  Supreme  Court,  and  that  it  is  expedient  to 
construe  the  late  Rules  of  Court  (12th  December 
1843)  on  the  subject,  according  to  the  plain  and 
literal  meaning  of  the  words,  namely,  that  Appeal 
Petitions  may  be  prepared  and  signed  by  any 
Proctor  -whatever."  [No.  3949,  1).  C.  Amblan- 
godde. 

769. — Siman  v.  Swaris. 

The  Supreme  Court,  in  this  case,  was  of  opi- 
nion that  the  Petition  of  Appeal  was  duly  signed, 
although  the  Proctor  signing  the  same  was  not 
a  Proctor  of  the  Supreme  Court.  (Vide  Judg- 
ment in  previous  case,  No.  3949,  D.  C.  Amblan- 
gedde.)  [No.  4424,  D.  C.  Amblangodde. 


Costs  for 
drawing  plead- 
ings allowed 
only  to  Advo- 
cates and  Proc- 
tors. 

D.C.  Proctors 

may  sign 

appeals. 


Appeal  Pe- 
titions iiK,y  lie 
signed  by  tiny 
Proctor . 


770. — Goddegame  Oonanse  v.  Appoewa: 

The  Application  was  ordered  to  be  referred  to 
the  District  Judge  for  his  decision  under  Rule 
41  of  sec.  1,  as  the  party  dissatisfied  with  the 
taxation  ought,  in  the  first  instance,  to  have  sub- 
mitted the  matter  in  dispute  to  him.  The  'Su- 
preme Court  was,  however,  of  opinion  that  no 
costs  for  drawing  pleadings  could  be  allowed  to  any 
other  than  to  Advocates  and  Proctors.  [No. 
10365,  D.  C.  Matura. 


Taxation  of 
costs. 


June   1,    (0.  C.  S.) 
771. — Livera   v.    Fernando. 

The  Supreme  Court  was  of  opinion  that  the 
Defendant  could  not  take  advantage  of  the  Ordi- 
nance of  Prescription  without  specially  pleading 
Lhe  same,  and  that  by  his  omission  to  do  so,  the 
plaintiff  was  liable  to  be  surprised.  See  Saunders, 
Rep.  vol.  1,  p.  283  ;  and  vol.  2,  p.  63  ;  and 
Chappelv.  Durham,  l.C  &  J.  [No.  4409, 
D.   C.  Amblangodde. 


Prescription 
must  be 
pleaded. 


1844. 


364 


Appeal  in  a 

C  riminal  case 

rejected, 

where  no 

grounds  were 

stated. 


Admission  of 
a  debt  on  ac- 
count stated. 


Bui-then  of 
proof,  on  plea 
of  payment. 


Burthen  of 
Proof  nnder 

FLscal's  Ord. 

No.  1  of  1839. 


July  12,  (C.) 
772. — Fernando  v.  Fernando. 
The  appeal,  in  this  case,  was  rejected,  no 
ground  of  appeal  being  stated  as  required  by  the 
1st  sect:  of  the  !Rules  entitled,  "  On  Appeals  from 
Sentences  of  the  District  Courts  in  Criminal  Mat-, 
ters".    [No.   9Q76,  D,  C,  Colombo. 


773. — Ibrahim  Lebbe  v,  Saibo  Lebbe. 
Any  admission  of  a  balance,  or  acknowledg- 
ment made  by  one  party  to  another  that  a  sum 
of  money  is  due  to  the  latter,  is  sufficient  prima 
facie  evidence  to  entitle  the  plaintiff  to  recover 
that  sum  on  an  account  stated  ;  and  it  is  not 
necessary  to  give  evidence  of  the  several  items 
constituting  the  account.  If  the  account  he  stated 
also  verbally,  the  witnesses  present  should  be 
summoned  to  prqve  the  same  ;  but  if  in  writing, 
then  the  same  sliould  be  produced,  and  the  der 
fendant's  signature  proved.  [No.  9794,  D.  C.  Go- 
lombo. 

774. — Pitche  Tamby-v.  MeraSekady. 
"The  defendant  pleaded paj'ment,  and  theonws 
lies  on  him  to  prove  the  same.  His  statements 
upon  his  examination  also  are  so  contradictory 
as  to  throw  very  great  suspicion  about  the  truth 
of  his.  case,"   [No.  97  J  5,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

775, — Fernando  v.  Jternando, 

"  By  the  Fiscal'e  Ordinance  No.  1  of  1 889,  sect. 
15,  it  is  enacted — "  that  in  all  cases  of  disputed 
"property  the  person  in  possession,  or  if  the 
"  pi-operty  he  in  the  possession  of  the  debtor  and 
"  any  other  person  or  persons,  then  the  debtor, 
"  shall  be  considered  prima  facie  the  proprieter 
"  thereof  until  the  contrary  be  shewn."  In  this 
case,  if  the  1st  defendant  had  called  any  evidence 
to  prove  a  joint  possession,  as  alleged  by  him,  it 
would  have  thrown  the  plaintiffs  on  the  proof  of 
thpir  title;;  and  in  default  of  1st  defendant  to  ad- 
duce such  proof,  the  plaintiffs  ought  to  have  called 


36^ 


1844, 


some  evidence  as  to  their  being  in  possession,  as 
it  is  not  admitted  by  1st  defendant."  [NO.  9173 
D.  Ci  Colombo. 


July  23,  (C.) 
776. —  Unga  v.  Sirimalle. 
if  the    plaintiffs  had,   before  Replication,  ob-    Objections  td 
jected  to  the  sufficiency  of  the  Answer,  the  Court  *f®t^e  Answer 
would  have  held  that  the  plaintiffs  -were  entitled  j^„gj  jjg  tak^n 
to  specific  answers  frond  the  defendant  to  all  the    before  Repli- 
inMerial  facts  alleged  by  the  plaintiffs  in  their        cation, 
libel,  as  it  tnight  tend  to  shorten  the  plaintiffs 
proof;  but  the  plaintiffs  having  replied,  and  thes 
parties  being  sufficiently  at  issue  on  the  pleadings, 
this  Court  cannot  concur  in  the  order  for  the 
defendant  to  file  an  amended  Answer.     The  pro- 
per course  is  to  examine-the  defendant,  if  his  ad- 
missions are  on  any  point  required  in  aid  of  the 
plaintiffs  evidence  or  casei     [No;   I5928j  D.  C; 
Kandy. 


777. — H(che  Kutii/  Gheity  v.  Pariari  Kuttalam 

Where  a  contract  is  made  by  one  of  se- 
veral partners,  the  action  may  be  maintained 
either  in  the  name  of  the  person  with  whom  the 
contract  was  actually  made,  or  in  the  name  of 
all  the  parties  really  interested .  It  is  clear  that 
the  defendant  in  this  case  dealt  only  with  the 
plaintiff,  who  was  the  ostensible  party,  and  that 
the  defendant  never  knew  that  the  plaintiff  had 
a  partner.  Leveck  v.  Shaftoe,  2  Esp.  468; 
Mawman  v.  Gillet,  2  Taunt.  324;  Skinner  w, 
Stocks,  4,  B.&  A.  437;  Cothay  v.  Fennel,  B. 
&  C.  671. 

The  appeal  ought  not  to  have  been  made  from 
the  interlocutory  order  or  decision  of  the  District 
Judge,  overruling  an  objection  taken  during 
the  hearing  of  the  suit;  but  the  appeal  ought  to 
have  been  brought  on  the  same  grounds  against 
the  final  decree.  [No,   15820,  D.  C.  Kandy. 


Action  upon  a 

Contract  witli 

one  of  several 

partners. 


Appeal  not 
alloweil  from 
an  interlocu- 
tory order 
daring  trial. 


1844. 


366 


Proof  of  actual 

possession  is 

sufficient  to 

maintain  an 

action  for 

trespass. 


An  Indict- 
ment for  steal- 
ing a  "Bul- 
lock,"' sup- 
ported by  proof 
of  stealing  a 
"Bull,"  but 
conviction 
quashed  for 
want  of  proof 
of  ownership 
as  laid. 


Kandynn  Law. 
Issue  of  first 
marringe  en- 
titled to  in- 
herit one-half 
of  Father's 
lands,  and  the 
issue  of  second 
marriage  the 
other  half, 
suliject  to  the 
widow's 
right. 


July  25,  (C.) 
778. — Salman  Appoo  v.  Juan. 

Proof  of  actual  possession,  whether  legal  or  not,  is 
sufficient  to  maintain  an  action  of  trespass  against 
a  mere  wrong-doer,  or  a  person  who  cannot  make 
out  a  title  prima  facie  entitling  him  to  the 
possession,    [No.  10774,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


779, — Kuda  Appoo  v.  Baha  Appoo. 
"  The  word  "ox,  ''plural  "  oxen  "  (species  hos,') 
is  defined  in  Johnson's  Walker's,  and  Sheridan's 
Dictionary  to  be  "  the  general  name  for  black 
cattle; — a  castiated  Bull."  And  the  name  of  ox 
or  bullock  is  commonly  used  in  this  Colony  as 
the  general  name  of  horned  cattle  distinguished 
from  buffaloes." 

"  Upon  an  indictment  for  stealing  a  bullock,  it 
was  objected  in  arrest  of  judgment  that  this  de- 
scription applied  only  to  "  a  young  bull,"  but  that 
the  evidence  proved  that  the  animal  stolen  was 
abull.  On  the  point  being  reserved  for  the  Col- 
lective Court,  the  Judges  were  of  opinion  that 
the  indictment  was  sufficiently  proved  as  to  the 
description  of  the  animal  stolen;  but  the  judg- 
ment was  arrested  on  another  objection,  viz: 
that  the  animal  was  proved  not  to  belong  to  the 
person  laid  in  the  indictment  as  the  owner,  nor 
to  be  in  his  possession,  but  to  belong  to  another 
individual."     [No.  11202,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


780. — Dingiry  Ettena  v.  Punchy  Ettena. 

The  Supreme  Court  fully  concurs  with  the 
assessors  that,  by  the  Kandyan  Laws,  the  plain- 
tiff, as  the  only  child  of  Dingihamy  by  his  first, 
marriage,  is  entitled  to  inherit  one-half  of  his 
lands,  and  the  children  of  his  second  marriage 
are  entitled  to  inherit  the  other  half  thereof, 
subject  to  his  widow's  claim  to  maintenance  from 
such  latter  half;  even  if  Dingihamy  is  to  be 
considered  the  sole  proprietor  from  prescriptive 
right  to  his  brother's  share,  by  an  uninterrupted 


367 


t844. 


adverse  possession  thereof,  since  his  death,  which 
plaintiff  admits  to  have  occurred  fifteen  years 
ago.    [A'o.  4375,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


781. — Karangode  Uiianse  v.  Kirry  Appoo. 

In  practice,  both  the  District  Courts  of 
Colombo  are  very  indulgent  in  allowing  an- 
swers to  be  filed  after  time,  where  the  delay  has 
been  very  short,  and  the  party  has  been  in  default 
only  from  ignorance.  [No.  4855,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


1?i2. — Lebbe  Markar  v.  Don  Abraham. 

"  All  the  pleadings  in  this  case  on  both  sides  are 
very  discreditable,  and  this  Court  would  disallow 
the  costs  thereof,  excepting  that,  as  it  is  a  first 
class  case,  only  ten  per  cent,  is  payable  in  costs. 

"  The  provision  in  the  Ordinance  refeired  to  is 
applicable  only  to  claims  against  the  Crown,  the 
words  ''such  person"  clearly  referring  to  "any  pri- 
vate person c/aewiiwgr  thesameagainst  the  Crown"; 
and  in  such  cases  also,  if  proof  of  a  Sannas  or 
Grant  cannot  be  adduced,  the  claimant  can  still 
support  his  title  by  proof .  of  such  customary 
taxes,  dues,  or  services  having  been  rendered 
within  20  years  for  the  lands,  as  have  been  ren- 
dered within  such  period  for  similar  lands  being 
the  property  of  private  proprietors  in  the-  same 
district.  "      [No.  4678,  D.  C.   Colombo. 

July  30,  (  C.  ) 
783. — Silva\.  Silva. 

"  The  order  ought  to  have  been  made  in  open 
Court  pursuant  to  the  30th  clause  of  the  Charter, 
as  it  has  the  effect  of  postponing  the  final  deci- 
sion of  the  case;  and  the  affidavits  filed  are  too 
general  and  not  sufficiently  specific  in  their  de- 
Hial  to  set  aside  all  the  proceedings  on  the  plain- 
tiff's part,  considering  that  there  are  affidavits  of 
service  of  the  Summons  on  the  defendants,  and 
two  notices  of  judgment,  and  that  the  Fiscal 
also  must  have  seized  the  property  of  the  defen- 
dants prior  to  publishing  the  sale  thereof.  Strict 


Answer  re- 
ceived after 
default,  where 
delay  has  been 
short,  and  the 
deft,  has  been 
in  ignorance. 


Ord.  No.l2  of 
1840,  is  appli- 
cable only  to 

claims  against 
the  Cro\\'n. 


Orders  mnat 
be  made  in 
open  Court. 
Affidavit  to 
open  up  judg- 
ment and  file 
Answer   must 
be  specific. 


1844. 


S68 


investigation  should  be  made  into  all  these  fadtS; 
and  the  Court  be  satisfied  that  it  has  been  im- 
posed upon  therein,  before  an  order  could  be 
made  to  admit  the  defence  in  this  late  stage  of 
the  suit."    [No    9752,  D.  C.   Galle. 


Sequestration. 

Orders  must  be 

made  in  open 

Court. 


Objection  to 

an  order  must 

be  made  in 

time. 


Demuriers  not 
allowed  with- 
out shewing 
specially  the 
nature  of  the 
objection. 


784. — Ludoviciv.  Samoe  Lebbe. 

The  interlocutory  order  in  this  case  was  modi- 
fied by  the  sequestration  being  limited  to  the 
issues,  rents,  and  profits  of  the  land,  according  to 
the  19th  Rule,  sect:  i  of  the  Orders  of  Court. 

"  The  proper  remedy  was  a  motion  for  an  in- 
junction for  trespass  and  destruction  of  the  pro- 
perty. 6Ves.  147  ;  7Ves.  138  ;  &  17  Ves.  110. 
This  Court,  moreover,  considers  that  Orders  of 
this  special  nature  should  be  made  in  open 
Court,  and  upon  short  previous  notice,  (if  two 
days  are  objectionably  long,)  of  the  application 
being  given  to  the  opposite  party,  unless  the 
emergency  of  the  case  will  not  allow  of  that 
course  being  safely  adopted,  oi'  there  be  good 
reason  to  apprehend  that  such  course  might  in 
the  particular  case  tend  to  defeat  the  ends  of  jus- 
tice."    [No.  10577,  D.  C.  Galle. 


785. — Sinneamado  v.  Punche  Ettena. 

"  There  is  no  doubt  that  there  are  not  sufficient 
grounds  stated  on  the  record  for  the  order  of  the 
21st  November  being  made  under  the  38th 
Rule,  Sect :  i ;  but  as  plaintiff  never  objected 
thereto  by  appeal,  and  has  since  filed  Replication 
to  the  Answer,  Lists  of  Witnesses,  and  consented 
to  proceed  on  to  trial,  it  is  too  late  now  to  object 
to  the  Order."    [No.  4187,  D.  C.  Matelle. 


786. —  William  Wise  v.  Ibrahim  Sahib. 

Since  the  new  Rules  of  the  5tli  July  1842,  it 
has  not  been  the  practice  of  the  District  Court 
of  Colombo  to  allow  general  demurrers,  except- 
ing to  the  sufficiency  of  the  Libel  in  general 
terms,  without  shewing  specially  the  nature  of 


369 


1844. 


the  objection.  Although  the  practice  of  English 
Pleading  is  to  allow  demurrers  in  such  general 
terms,  yet,  as  the  party  demurring  ffiust  enter 
the  exceptions  intended  to  be  insisted  on  in  argu- 
ment in  the  margin  of  the  demurrer  books  he  de- 
livers to  the  Judges,  (Arch.  Pr.  vol.  2,  p.  9.),  there 
really  exists  little  difference  therein  from  the 
shorter  course  prescribed  by  the  new  Rules. 
[No,  16016  D.  0.   Kandy. 

August  1,  (C.) 
787. — Kirri  Banda  v.  Mohottale. 

"This  Court  considers  that  the  father  of  the 
Plaintiff  and  the  1st  defendant  were  formerly 
joint  possessors  of  the  Estate,  but  as  the  1st  de- 
fendant has  lost  his  moiety  under  the  decree  in 
the  Case  No.  7117  in  favour  of  the  late  2nd  de- 
fendant, under  whom  intervenient  claims,  this 
Court  could  only  set  aside  that  decree  upon  the 
ground  of  collusion  and  fraud  between  the  par- 
ties, and  would  therefore  not  set  it  aside  in  favour 
of  the  1st  defendant,  as  it  is  a  rule  that  he  who 
seeks  for  equity  must  come  into  Court  with  clean 
hands."    [No.  2618,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


The  S.  C. 

can  only 

set  aside  a 

decree,  on  the 

gronnd  of 

collusion  and 

fraud. 


788. — Alwis  V.  Alwis. 

In  this  case  tLe  proceedings  were  remanded 
back  to  the  District  Court  for  the  Security  Bond 
to  be  signed  by  the  appellant,  it  having  been  de- 
cided by  the  Collective  Court  that  the  proxy 
should  authorize  the  Proctor  to  whom  it  is  given 
to  sign  the  Security  Bond  in  appeal.  [No.  11011. 
B.C.    Colombo. 


Proctor  cannot 

sign  Security 

Bond,  without 

authority. 


Aug.  6.  (C.) 

789. — Selappa  Chetty  v.  Narayan  Chetty. 

Sattappa  Chetty,  Claimant. 

The  interlocutory  order  in  this  case  was  affir- 
med, subject  to  the  opinion  of  the  Collective 
Court  as  to  whether  the  District  Court  of  Galle, 
or  the  District  Court  of  Colombo,  should  have 
jurisdiotion  in  the  matter  in  question. 


1844. 


370 


Claims  in 
execution, — 
where  and 
how  they 
must  be  dis- 
posed of. 


The   following    "meraorandum"  was   subse- 
quently given  in  by  the  Senior  Puisne  Justice: — 

The  Seiiior  Puisne  Justice  finds  the  practice 
on  the  point  reserved  in  this  case  to  be  very  un- 
settled.    The  Fiscal  of  Colombo  states  that  claims 
upon  all  property  seized  in  Colombo  have,  du- 
ring his  holding  office,  been  decided  in  the  Dis- 
trict Court  of  Colombo.  Sir   C.  Marshall  in 
his  printed  notes,  p.  258,  refers  to  a  case  where 
land  had  been  seized  at  Putlam  under  a  Writ  of 
Execution  issued  from  the  District  Court  of  Colom- 
bo, and  the  Judges  were  of  opinion  that  the  claims 
should  be  decided  at  Putlam  ;  but  it  would  ap- 
pear that  the  claims  were  ultimately  heard  in  the 
District  Court  of  Colombo  upon  the  parties  con- 
senting to  their  witnesses  at  Putlam  being  ex- 
amined on  interrogatories.     As  consent  of  parties 
clearly  cannot  give  jurisdiction,  it  must  be  pre- 
sumed  the  Judges   thought    that   the  District 
Court  of  Colombo  had  jurisdiction  in  the  matter, 
and  the  application  must  have  been  made  for  the 
transfer  of  the  cause  under  the  36th  clause  of 
the  Charter.     The  only  other  case  the  Senior 
Puisne  Justice  can  find  upon  inquiry  from  the 
Registrar,  is  one  wherein  the  Writ  of  Execution 
issued  from  Jaflfha,  and  the  property  was  seized 
in  Colombo,  and  the  claims  were  tried  in  the 
District  Court  of  Colombo.     In  Van  Leeuwen, 
p.  655,  it  is  said,  if  the  opposition  against  execu- 
tion concern  the  manner  oj  carrying  the  execu- 
tion into  effect,  the  Judge  who  causes  the  same 
to  be  effected,  may  decide  thereon ;  but  if  the 
opposition  concerns   the   matter   itself,  then  it 
ought  to  be  referred  to  the  Jud^e  who  gave  judg- 
ment.   As  far  as  concerns  the  Charter,  the  plain- 
tifi"'s  right  to  the    property  accrues  within  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  District  Court  of  Galle  which 
issues  the  Writ  in  his  favour,  and  it  is  equally 
hard  upon  him  to  support  his  title  to  the  pro- 
perty before  the  District  Court  of  Colombo,  as 
it  would  be  for  the  claimant  to  Drove  his  right 
in   the  District  Court  of  Galle.'    [No.    10202, 
D.  C.  Galle. 


371 


1844. 


790. — Meera  Zehbe  Markar  v.    Alvoe  Lebhe 

MarJcar, 
Tlie  Court  considered  that  the  Cadotam  filed 
by  the  plaintiff  in  this  case,  bearing  date  the 
let  July  1822,  did  not  require  a  stamp  under 
tiie  Eegulation  No.  2  of  1822,  as  it  was  not  a 
Conveyauee  or  a  Deed  purporting  to  convey  a 
title  lo  land,  but  only  an  agreement  for  the 
future  conveyance  thereof.  On  reference  to  the 
subsequent  stanip  Lnws  No.  4  of  1827,  clauses 
5  and  9,  and  No.  6  of  1836,  clauses  2  and  5, 
this  distinction  is  more  obvious,  the  clauses  of 
the  old  Kegulatiou  relative  to  deeds  purporting 
to  couvey  a  title  to  land  being  still  retained  in 
their  original  form,  and  additional  clauses  in- 
troduced to  supply  the  omission  therein  reapect- 
ius  contracts  and  agreements.  [No.  (J850,  U. 
0.  Colombo. 


A  Cadotam 
does   not  re- 
quire a  stamp 
under  No.   3 
of  1822. 


791.— Don  Daniel  v.  Sultan  Marikar. 
There  are  precedents  holding  that  the  passes- 
sioD  of  joint-tenant,  coparcener,  or  tenant  in 
common,  is  not  an  adverse  possessi'ou  ;  but  those 
decisioDS are  unfortunately  founded  wholly  on 
the  general  law,  (Fairclaim  v.  ShacMeton,  5 
Burr.  2604,  and  Koscoe,  Civ.  Evid.  p.  32&,) 
independent  o?  the  express  provisions  of  the 
Ordinance.  But  the  Ordinance  of  Prescription, 
No.  8  of  1834,  has  not  simply  declared  that  a 
possession  of  ten  years  adverse  to  or  indepen- 
dent of  that  of  the  claimant  shall  give  a  prescrip- 
tive title,  leaving  it  to  the  Court  to  decide  what 
is  in  Law  an  adverse  possession,  but  in  the 
parenthesis  in  the  2ad  clause  of  the  Ordinance 
it  is  also  declared  what  shall  be  considered  such 
an  adverse  possession  under  that  Ordinance. 
And  upon  all  recent,  cases  this  Court  has  uni- 
formly held  that,  under  that  parenthesis,  there 
can  be  bo  exception  drawn  in  favor  of  the  pos- 
sesiion  of  one  co-heir,  joint-tenant,  or  tenant  ia. 
common  not  being  adverse  to  the  other  from 
the  tenure  of  their  estates  alone  :  and  looking 
to  the  evil  arising  from  the  eitr.  me  sub-division 
of  land  in  this  Colon  y  under  the  existing  law  of 


Ord.  No.  8 
of  183  h  cl.  2. 
one  eo-heir, 
joint  tenant, 
or   tenant  in 
common  may 

prescribe 
against   ano- 
tEer,  fj;om 
the  tenure 
of  their  Es-- 
tates  alone. 


1844 


372 


succession,  it  mny  be  reasonably  presumed  that 
the  Legislature  intended  to  annul  all  distinc- 
tions in  Law  between  the  possession  of  such 
persons  and  others.     [No.  6587,  D.  C.  Colombo, 


I'roctora  al- 
lowed to  sign 
retitions     of 

Appeal  to 
prevent  vexa- 
tious appeals. 


August  10,  (C.) 

792. — Tahapatte  v.  Horetdlle. 

One  principal  object  of  the  Supreme  Court 
in  requiring,  by  the  new  Rules,  that  all  Peti- 
tions in  writing  should  be  drawn  and  signed  by 
Proctors,  was,  that  it  hoped,  for  the  respecta- 
bility of  the  profession,  the  Proctors  would  not 
lend  their  aid  to  parties  in  instituting  vexatious 
and  frivolous  appeals.  [No.  4401,  D.  C. 
Colombo. 


793. —  In  re  Aseen  Packeren. 

nd"h^rF  "'"*'  '^  ^^^  practice  of  the   Supreme   Court,  in 

excluded  in  computing  time  allowed  under  any  llule  or  order 

•computing  of  the  Court,   to  exclude   Sundays   and  Public 

time.  Holidays.     [No.  17590,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


Appeal 
must  be 
drawn  and 
signed  by  an 
Advocate  or 
Proctor;  or 
if  drawn  by 
the  party 
must  be  at- 
tested by  the 
Secretary. 


Witnesses 
to  a  deed  can- 
not be  ex- 
amined res- 
pecting it, 
unless  the 
writing  is  put 


794. — In  re  Louis  Fernando  find  Louisa 
Fonselca. 

The  appeal  in  tfiis  case  "was  rejected,  it  not 
being  drawn  out  conformably  to  the  new  Eules 
of  the  12th  December  1843,  which  requires  all 
Petitions  of  Appeal  to  be  drawn  and  signed  by 
some  Advocate  and  Proctor,  or,  if  taken  down 
in  writing  from  the  mouth  of  the  party  by  the 
Secretary,  to  be  signed  by  the  party  and  attested 
by  the  Secretary.     [No. D.  C.  Colombo. 


August  17,  (C.) 
795. — LoJcoo  Banda  v.  Seremalralle. 
Where  a  Notary  and  two  attesting  witnesses 
to  a  deed  were  examined,  without  putting  the 
document  to  their  hands  for  them  to  identify, 
hetS,  that  the  District  Court  had  committed  an 
error.  "  A  witness  cannot  properly  be  asked 
"  on  cross-examination  whether  he  has  written 


373 


4844. 


"  such  a  thing  ;  the  proper  course  is  to  put  the 
"  writing  into  bis  liauds,  and  ask  him  whether 
"  it  is  his  writing."  Queen's  case,  2  B,  &  B. 
293.  As  to  the  power  of'  the  Court  to  recal  the 
witnesses,  the  Distriot  Court  under  the  28th 
rule,  sect.  1,  and  sect.  viii.  of  the  rules  of  the 
5th  Ju4y  18i2,  has  full  power  to  call  fur  any 
further  evidence  during  the  trial  it  may  think 
necessary,  and  also  to  suspend  its  decision  for 
it ;  and  even  in  a  criminal  case,  where  the  pro- 
secutor's counsel  closed  his  case,  and  the  coun- 
sel for  the  defendant  had  taken  an  objection  to 
the  evidence,  the  Judf^e  may  make  any  further 
enquiries  of  the  witnesses  he  thinks  fit,  in  order 
to  answer  the  •bjection.  Remnant's  case  E.  & 
K.  136.     [No.  4138.  D.  C.  Matelle, 


August  20,  (C.) 

796. — Sapalhamy  v.  Kirry  Eitena. 

"  The  grants  filed  appear  to  this  Court  to  be 
Kandyan  Deeds  of  Gift,  which,  excepting  those 
made  to  Priests- whether  conditional  or  uncon- 
ditional, are  (like  Wills)  always  revokable  by 
the  donor  in  his  life  time,  and  are  often  made 
in  contemplation  of  death  ;  but  such  grants 
differ  essentially  from  Last  Wills  or  Testaments 
in  respect  to  their  transferring  an  immediate 
til le  or  interest  to  the  donee  in  the  property 
thereby  granted  :  whereas  a  Will  does  not  take 
efiect  until  the  death  of  the  Testator.  Until  proof 
on  both  sides  has  been  gone  into  as  to  the  execu^ 
tion  of  these  Grants,  and  it  be  shewn  whether 
they  were  delivered  or  not  to  the  donee,  and 
whether  the  donees  were  put  into  the  immediate 
possession  of  the  laud  granted  thereby,  this 
Court  cannot,  in  the  present  stage  of  the  suit, 
give  any  definite  opinion  as  to  what  is  the  legal 
effect  of  these  deeds."  [No.  4271,  D.  C. 
Matella. 


into  their- 
hands. 

Powers  of 
D.  C.   to  ex- 
amine wit- 
nesses. 


£andyau 
Deeds  of  Gift 
are  revocable. 


August  27,  (C.) 
797. —  Silva  v.  Perera. 
In  this  case  the  decree   of  the   Court  below       Execution 
waa  affirjied  as  to  the  rfijectioa  of  the  plaintifis    cannot  issue 


IS-W 


37i 


against  the 
heirs  of  de- 
ceased par- 
ties, without 
a  revival  of 
the  judgment 


The  S.  C. 
has  no  origi- 
nal jurisdic- 
tion in  res- 
pect of  Lu- 
natics. 


app'ication  to  issue  executioa  against  llie  lieir 
of  the  deceased  1st  det'enJaat,  and  the  widow 
of  tlje  deceased  2ad  deieudant,  the  Court  being 
of  opinion  that  a  Libel,  in  the  nature  of  a  Bill 
ofEevivor,  sbould  be  filtd  against  the  repre- 
sentatives of  both  the  deceased  defendants. — 
[No.  39527,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

798.--  In   re   Anna  Helena   Huyhertss,  a 
lunaiic. 

In  this  case  the  order  oi  the  Court  below  was 
reverspd,  and  the  proceedings  were  remanded 
back  to  the  District  Court  to  make  order  in  ilie 
matter,  as  the  whole  original  jurisdiction  over 
lunatics  and  their  E.states  was  transferred,  by 
the  26th  clause  of  the  Charter,  to  the  District 
Court,  and  the  Supreme  Court  cannot  make  an 
order,  except  upon  appeal,  for  the  management 
of  any  part  of  the  lunatic's  estate.*  [N"o.  40952, 
D.  C.  Colombo. 


A  Plaintiff 
cannot     con- 
vert a  libel 
claiming 
rent  on  a 
Lease   into  a 
claim  for 
land. 


September  24i,  (0.) 
799.  —  Simon  Mathes  v.  Alwis, 
Wliere  by  the  libel  the  right  of  property 
to  any  immoveable  property  was  not  in  dispute, 
/ieZt^,  that  the  rule  of  23rd  June  1843  did  not 
apply,  and  it  would  destroy  all  regularity  in 
pleading  to  allow  a  plaintiff  to  convert  a  libel 
claiming  rent  by  virtue  of  a  lease,  into  a  claim 
for  tiie  property  of  land.  [No.  4393,  D,  C. 
Amhlangodde. 


*  The  above  order  was,  however  fubjeot  to  the  Col- 
lective opinion  of  the  Judges,  which  was  reserved 
thereon._;  as  the  practice  appeared  to  be  unsettled  in 
respect  to  the  power  of  the  I'istrict  Court  to  make 
order  for  the  payment  of  money  of  lunaticb  and 
others,  which  was  vested  in  the  Loan  Board.  Subse- 
quently, at  a  Collective  sitting  of  the  Court,  the  fol- 
lowing order  was  made ;  "  That  the  order  of  the 
Court  be  affirmed.  The  Supreme  Court  is  of  opinion 
that  the  motion  for  a  Eule  on  the  Registrar  of  this 
Court  has  been  properly  refused.  If  the  guardian  will 
apply  to  the  Loan  Board  for  the  sum  in  question,  the 
Registrar's  sanction  to  its  disbursement  will  be  di- 
rected to  be  givp'^  ■' 


375 


1^41. 


Octoler  7,  (S.) 
800. — Mohottale  v-  Keftanghamy. 
Tliis  was  an  action  brought  to  recover  tJie 
value  of  services  aud  duiies  alleged  to  be  due 
to  the  plaintiff  from  the  defendants,  iu  respect 
of  lands  held  by  the  latter.  In  such  an  action 
the  precise  nature  and  extent  of  the  duties  and 
services  claimed  was  thought  necessary  to  be 
established,  aud  their  continued  payment  aud 
perFormaiice.     [No.  3361,  D.  C.  Bolomho. 


Oct.  22,  (0.) 
801  — Sinnepulle  v.  Supermanien. 

The  proceedings  did  not  state  how  the  pL'a 
was  brought  for  the  opinion  of  the  District 
Court,  but  the  Petition  of  Appeal  stated  that 
tlie  dsfendant  movbd  thiit  the  Libel  be  dismissed 
by  reason  of  the  plea.  Seld,  that  if  such  mo- 
tion vTas  made  it  was  irregular.  "  The  proper 
way  of  proceeding  was  for  the  plaintiff  to  have 
filed  a  pleadina;  irrespective  of  the  plea,  aud 
thereupon  the  Couit  would  have  been  called  ou 
to  decide  whatever  miglit  have  beau  tliereby  put 
in  issue.  In  the  present  case  bolh  parties  seem 
to  have  acquiesced  in  the  irregularity,  and  as  the 
Supreme  (/ourt  agree  with  the  Court  below  that 
the  action  is  not  founded  on  Bill  &c.,  the  plea  is 
nnt  maintainable,  and  the  inteilocutory  order 
is  affirmed. '    [No.  9402,  D.  C.  Batticaloa. 


In  an  ac- 
tion for  ser- 
vices due^  the 
precise  nature 
of  the  ser- 
vice must  be 
specified. 


It  is  irregu- 
lai'  for  a  deft 
to  move  that 
a  Libel  be  dis- 
missed   by 
reason  of  a 
plea  filed  by 
him. 


JSovembtr  12,   (0.), 

802. — Ispooneyna  v.  Andel  Cadi  r. 

The  Supreme  Court  will  only  look  at  the  re- 
port of  the  Proctor,  and  not  iui.o  the  merits  of 
the  case.     [No.  12140,  D.  C.  Jaffna. 

803. —  Sinnetamby  v.  Sinnetamhy. 

Judgijient.l  The  proceedings  in  tliis  case  are 
by  no  means  in  conformity  with  the  liules  of 
Court. 

Ist.  As  to  the  entry,  "plaintiff  present,  defend- 
ant absent."  It  was  of  no  consequence  whether 
plaintiff  was  present  or  not  on  ihe  day  on 
which  defendants  should  have  appeared,  that  is, 


Proctor's 
Report  . 


Presence  of 

Parties  when 

required, 

when  not. 


18-il 


376 


should  Lave  entered   appearance,  for  their  per- 
sonal presence  is  not  necessary, 

2nd.  It  is  meniioned,  "  plaintiff  is  absent." 
There  was  no  occasion  for  his  presence.  It  is 
there  stated  that  2nd  defendant  moves  to  answer, 
and  a  day  is  given  him  so  to  do.  Why  should 
such  a  motion  be  made  and  a  day  given  when 
the  rules  fix  the  day  ? 

3rd.  The  plaintiff  moves  for  judgment  for 
default  of  answer,  and  the  19th  October  is  fixed 
as  the  day  for  giving  judgment  by  default.  It 
does  not  appear  whether  the  parties  in  default 
aie  served  with  a  notice  thereof  as  required  by 
the  7th  rule  of  5th  July  1842,  and  instead  of 
regularly  proceeding  on  the  19th  according  to 
the  rules,  certain  auamalous  applications  are 
made  on  the  10th,  for  which  the  rules  give  no 
sanction  :  for  the  time  for  answering  haviiig 
expired,  it  was  no  longer  competent  to  move 
the  Court  to  file  answar,  nor  could  an  an- 
swer be  filed  unless  (on  the  19 ih  when  judgment 
was  passed)  the  defendants  were  allowed  to 
purge  their  detault  under  the  said  7th  rule. 

4th.  Then  certain  days  are  given  to  a  Me- 
dical man  to  appear,  &c.  instead  of  the  whole 
matter  being  settled  on  the  19tli.  However, 
the  application  was  riglitly  rejected,  and  there- 
fore the  crder  of  the  District  Court  of  Juffoa 
is  afiirmed. 

The  attention  of  the  District  Courtis  called 
to  there  being  two  detendants  in  this  case,  and 
the  provision  that  is  made  therefor  in  the 
rules  of  I7th  June  1844;  and  particular  at- 
tention is  requested  to  the  beginning  of  the  4th 
clause  of  the  same  rules  as  judgment  should 
not  follow  as  mere  matter  of  course  on  default, 
[No.  14767,  D.  C.Jaffna. 


Administra- 
tion, The  S. 
C.  will  not 
interfere  with 
the  appoint- 
ment of  ad- 
ministrator 


804. — Coojje  Taniby  v.  Miera  Natchia. 
Administration  given  jointly  to  parties  be- 
tween whom  there  exist  bad  feeling,  cannot  be 
advantageous  to  the  Estate.  This  case  was  re- 
manded to  the  District  Court  to  make  choice  of 
one  or  other  of  the  applicants,  giving  preference 
to  the  widow,  unless  good  reason  exists  why  the 


377 


1844 


brother  should  be  preferred.  The  Supreme 
Court  will  be  very  slow  to  interfere  with  tlie 
appointment  when  made,  as  the  District  Court 
iiiust  be  the  best  judge  of  the  matter.  [No. 
12412,  D.  C.  GMlaw  and  Putlam. 


when    oneo 
made. 


Nov.  19,  (C.) 

805.—  Somenaden  v.  Conamale, 

The  Order  of  the  Court  below  was  affirmed 
in  respect  of  the  1st  and  2nd  defendants,  as  they 
appeared  to  be  executors  de  son  tort  by  their 
intrusion  and  interference  in  assuming  charge 
of  the  effects  of  the  deceased  ;  and  the  plaintiff 
was  directed  to  be  at  liberty  to  amend  his  libel 
by  omitting  his  claim  against  the  3rd  defendant, 
ns  the  detention  of  the  part  of  the  effects  deli- 
vered to  him  by  the  deceased,  with  tlie  concur- 
rence of  the  two  first  defendants,  could  not  be  a 
good  ground  for  making  him  a  co-defendant  in 
this  action  :  otherwise  any  number  of  persons 
withholding  effects  of  the  deceased  in  like  man- 
ner under  different  claims,  could  be  made  patties 
to  this  suit,  and  the  Court  be  thereby  perplexad 
with  trying  several  distinct  issues  in  one  action. 
A  separate  action  should  be  instituted  against 
the  3rd  defendant,  by  some  person  entitled  to 
sue  as  the  legal  representative  of  the  deceased. — 
[No.  15830,  D.  C.  Trincomalie. 


Detention 
by  a  party  of 
goods  deliver- 
ed to  him  by 
a  deceased,  is 
not  a  good 
ground  for 
making  him 
a   co-deft,  in 

an  action 
against   the 
Executors. 


Nov.  26,   (C.) 

806. — Punchy  Ajppoo  v.  Lama  EUena., 

The  practice  in  the  District  Court  of  Colombo 
upon  a  plaintiff  amending  his  libel  is  to  take 
out  a  fresh  Summons,  and  the  defendant  is 
entitled  to  eight  days  time  to  answer  after 
entering  appearance.  The  plaintiff  cannot 
otherwise  proceed  for  default  of  answer  under 
the  7th  section  of  the  rules  of  the  5th  July 
1842,  as  the  demurrer  was  filed  instead  of 
answering,under  the  3th  section,  and  was  allow- 
ed.   [No.  12219,  D.  C.  GMlaw  and  Putlam. 


Practice  in 
case  of  an 
amended   Li- 
bel. 


.  1844 


378 


Admission 

of    one  deft, 

will  not  bind 

another. 


Practice  in 
case  where  a 

./udge    and 

the  Assessors 

disagree. 


Qu  ?  whe- 
ther the  Go- 
vernment has 
a  right  to  ap- 
point Maho- 
medan 
1  riests 


'J'he   Court 
will  not  inter 
fere  when  the 

parties  are 


Novemler  28,  (0  ) 

80T .—Morookowa  v.  Sindo. 

"  It  may  be  very  questionable  whether  the 
admission  of  the  2ad  defendant,  that  the  plain- 
tiff has  been  in  possession  for  fifteen  years,  and 
tliat  the  lands  are  service  parveny,  binds  the  1st 
defendant.  The  case  is  remanded  to  give  the 
plaintiff  an  opportnnity  of  pleading  presctiption, 
and  that  the  lands  are  service  paiveny,"  [No. 
9576,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

November  29,  (O.) 
808. — Nonehy  Hamy  v.   Punchy  Appoohamy. 

Where  after  hearing  plaintiff's  evidence  only, 
the  assessors  were  of  one  opinion  and  the  Judge 
of  another,  the  Supreme  Court  set  aside  the 
judgment,  and  rendanded  the  case,  with  leave  to 
both  parties  to  adduce  such  evidence  as  they 
may  be  advised,  as  it  did  not  appear  a  satisfac- 
tory mode  of  proceeding  to  dismiss  the  case 
without  hearing  the  defendant's-  witnesses, 
which  might  bring  the  Court  to  an  uaanimoua 
opinion.     [No.  10184,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

809. —  Wawa  Saibo  v,  Bawa  Saibo. 

This  case  was  set  aside,  and  the  defendant 
was  absolved  frona  the  instance  on  the  ground 
that  no  appointment,  by  the  Government,  was 
proved  by  plaintiff,  empowering  him  to  be  the 
only  priest  in  Negombo  by  whom  marriages  can 
be  celebrated,  even  admitting  that  the  Govern- 
ment had  sach  right  of  appointment  ;  neither 
was  it  proved  that  the  defendant  was  a  priest, 
in  which  case,  it  was  presumed,  that  lie  could 
not  celebrate  a  marriage.*  LNo,  7659,  D-  C 
Colombo. 

December  2,  (O.) 
810. — Saba  Appoo  v,  Bavid  Alwis. 
If  parties  are  content   with  the  pleadings  of 
their  adversaries,  it  is  not  in  general  expedient 
lor  the  District  Court  to  interfere. 

*  Ses  Morgan's  Digest,  p.  343  par.  735. 


379 


1844. 


Where  it  appeared  that  the  plaintiff  wished 
to  try  the  right  to  the  land,  which  the  form  of 
his  libel  did  not  admit  of,  being  only  an  action 
for  trespass,  the  case  was  remanded  to  the  Dis- 
trict Court  with  liberty  to  the  plaintiff  to 
amend  his  libel,  and  the  defendant  to  put  in 
such  pleadings  thereto  as  he  may  be  advised. 
Both  parties  to  bear  their  own  costs.  [No. 
1162J,D.C.  Oohmifh 


content  with 
each  other's 
pleadings. 


Dec.  3,  (O 
811.— Sow.  A.  Buller  Q.  A.  v.  Ferera. 

In  this  case  the  interlocutory  order  of  the 
Court  below  was  reversed  with  costs,  and  judg- 
ment was  entered  against  all  the  defendants, 
excepting  the  Ist  defendant,  according  to  tlie 
^th  sect,  of  the  general  Eule  of  Court  of  the 
17th  June  1844.  The  following  is  the  Judg- 
ment. 

"  This  action  can  clearly  be  maintained  by  the 
Queen's  Advocate  without  having  recourse  to 
the  remedy  given  under  the  Ordinance,  which 
does  not  take  away  the  remedy  at  Common 
Law  ;  (Cora.  Dig.  tit.  Action  upon  Statute,  C ; 
•  Saonder's  Pleading,  830  ;)  and  the  Queen's  Ad- 
vocate may,  therefore,  sue  under  the  Ordinance 
or  not,  as  the  circumstances  of  each  case  re- 
quire. 

"  It  often  happens  that  a  Crown  debtor  pre- 
viously conceals  or  makes  away  with  all  his 
property  ;  and  if  the  view  of  the  District  Judge 
were  correct,  the  debtor  would  thereby  suecess- 
fiilly  evade  and  estop  the  Crown's  prosecuting 
him  for  the  debt  due  to  it. 

"  The  object  of  the  legislature  in  authorising 
the  Government  Agent  or  his  Assistant  or 
Deputy  to  act,  not  only  upon  his  own  know- 
ledge, but  also  on  notice  to  him  given  of  any 
debt  having  accrued  due  to  Her  Majesty,  was 
obviously  to  include  (amongst  others)  the  very 
case  suggested  by  the  District  Judge  :  as  it  was 
preferable  in  conceding  such  summary  powers  to 
confine  the  exercise  of  them  as  far  aa  practica' 


The  Q.  A, 

maysue  at 
conimon  law ; 
though,  other 
remedies  pro- 
vided by  Or- 
dinanee^ 


1844 


380 


The  D.  C, 

may,  by  con- 
sent of  both 
parties,  hear 
eTidenca  de 


ble  to  one  channel,  and  to  vest  such  extensive 
discretion  in  the  principal  executive  o£Scer  of 
the  district,  and  those  acting  on  his  behalf  or 
authority,  rather  than  vest  the  same  generally 
in  the  respective  officers  of  the  various  subordi- 
nate departments  of  the  Eevenue."  [No.  16417, 
D.  0.  Kandy. 

Dec.  16,  (0.  C.  S.) 

812. — UkJcu  Ettena  v.  Omor  Lelibe, 

Where,  after  the  abstraction  of  the  evidence 
and  judgment  the  plaintifi  moved  the  District 
Court  that  the  case  may  be  re-fixed  to  hear 
evidence  de  novo,  in  which  the  defendant  ac- 
quiesced, and  on  the  day  of  trial  both  parties 
appeared,  and  evidence  was  adduced  on  both 
sides  and  judgment  given  ;  Jield,  that  such 
proceedings  are  tantamount  to  a  new  trial  of  the 
case  with  the  consent  of  both  parties,  and  will 
not  disturb  the  judgment  on  the  ground  of 
judgment  having  already  been  given.  [No. 
11266,  D.  C.  Kcmdy. 


Non-compli- 
ance with 
Bule  34,  sect) 
1,  is  no 
ground  for 
^reversing  a 
judgment. 


813. — Dingiry  Meniha  v,  Kiry  Meniha. 

Non-compliance  with  the  terms  of  the  Sdith 
rule,  sect,  1,  Civil  Jurisdiction,  inasmuch  as  it 
does  not  state  the  grounds  of  the  decision,  is 
not  an  omission  for  reversing  the  judgment, 
[No.  14099,  D.  C.  Randy. 


Liberty  to 
amend  Plead- 
ings not  li- 
mited to  any 
particular 
stage  of  the 
proceedings. 


Dee.  18,  (0.  C.  8.) 

814. — Candoe  NatcMa  y.  Sinne  Leble. 

The  liberty  given  by  the  4th  rule  of  5th 
July  1842,  to  apply  to  amend  pleadings,  is  not 
limited  to  any  particular  stage  of  the  proceed- 
ings ;  and  the  Supreme  Court,  looking  at  the 
circumstances  of  the  District  Courts  of  this 
Island  at  the  present  practice,  and  the  prac- 
titioners, and  the  law  of  England  on  the  subject, 
does  not  think  it  would  be  wise  to  deny  amend- 
ment in  case  of  a  mistake  where  the  defendants 
are  not  prejudiced. 


381 

The  Costs  in  the  District  Court  are  left  at 
the  discretion  of  the  District  Judge,  who  can 
alone  judge  of  the  necessary  expense  to  which 
the  defendants  have  been  subjected  by  the  mis- 
take of  the  plaintiffs  after  the  trial.  [No. 
37061,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


4844. 


Costa  there- 
upon. 


815, — Babachy  v.  Don  Louis. 

Where  the  Libel  stated  that  the  plaintifs 
were  "seised  and  possessed  as  of  their  own 
property"  of  &c,  the  Supreme  Court  was  of 
opinion  that  these  words  were  obscure,  and 
leave  the  defendants  in  uncertainty  whether 
the  plaintiffs  set  out  the  right  of  property  or 
possession  only.  [No.  4497,  D.  C.  Amhlari' 
godde. 


The  Words 
•'  seised  cmd 


held  to  be 
obscure. 


816. — McKenzie  v.  Perera. 

After  the  admissions  of  the  defendant  made 
in  Court,  the  defendant  put  in  an  Answer  by 
leave  of  the  Coui  t,  to  which  the  plaintiff  re- 
plied. The  Supreme  Court  was  of  opinion  that 
the  case  must  go  to  trial  upon  the  pleadings. 
[No.  7528,  D.  C,  Kaigalle. 


Dec.  20,  (O.  C,  S.) 

817. — Bresida  v.  Base  Maria. 

"  The  Court  has  no  powerto  strike  off"  the  case 
on  the  ground  on  which  application  was  made 
so  to  do.  If  the  Letters  of  Administration  are 
produced  at  the  trial  it  is  sufficient.  But  their 
production  cnnnot  then  be  dispensed  with." 
[No.  8204,  D.  C.  Batticaloa. 


When  a  de- 
fendant has 
filed  Answer, 
the  case  must 
'    goto  trial, 
though  he 
may  have 
previously 
made  admis- 
sions. 


It  is  sufficient 
if  Letters  of 
Administra- 
tion are  pro- 
duced at  the 
trial, 


Dec  23,  (O.  C.  S.) 

618.— GMnnetambi/  v.  Winnys. 

"  By  the  Ordinance  No.  5  of  1835  the  Procla- 
mation of  28rd  September  1 799  is  declared  to 
be  in  force,  in  so  far  as  '  that  the  Administra- 
'  tion  of  Justice  and  Police  within  the  settle- 
'  ments  then  under  the  British  dominion,  and 


Ord.  No.  5  of 

1835.  Procla- 

matiou  of 

23rd  Sept. 

1793- 


1844 


382 


Laws  and 

Customs  of 

the  Tamils 

not  interfered 

with. 

Special  cus- 
toms of  the 
Moquas  and 
Wanniahs 
recognized. 


'  known  by  the  designation  of  Ibe  Maritime 
'  Provinces,  should  be  exercised  by  all  Courts 
'  according  to  the  laws  and  institutions  thflfc 
'  subsisted  under  the  ancient  Government  of 
'  the  United  Provinces,'  and  these  laws  and 
institutions  are  by  the  said  Ordinance  to  con- 
tinue in  force,  '  subject,'  &e. 

"  The  Supreme  Court  has  every  reason  to  be- 
lieve that  the  laws  and  customs  of  the  Tamils 
residing  in  Batticaloa,  regarding  the  rights  of 
succession  to ,  property,  were  never  interfered 
with  by  the  Courts  of  Judicature  under  the 
Dutch  Government ;  and  the  special  customs 
of  the  Moquas  and  Wanniahs  were  recognized 
in  a  case  at  the  last  Sessions  holden  at  Jaffna, 
without  its  even  being  contended  that  tbey 
were  abrogated."     [No.  8933,  D.  C.  Batticaloa. 


Mis -joinder 
of  parties. 


819. — Markoe  v.  Isoehamy. 

The  plaintiff  sued  the  Isfc  defendant  for 
money  lent  by  plaintiff  to  the  party  whom  1st 
defendant  now  represents,  on  mortgage  of  the 
premises  trespassed  on  by  2nd  defendant,  and 
which  premises  plaintiff  was  to  enter  upon  and 
possess  in  lieu  of  interest.  The  2nd  defendant 
was  sued  for  trespassing  on  the  said  premises, 
and   damages  were  claimed  for  such  trespass. 

At  the  trial  the  2nd  defendant  attempted  to 
prove  title  in  himself,  and  failed;  and  the 
judgment  was  that  no  damage  had  been  proved, 
but  that  2nd  defendant  was  to  pay  all  costs  of 
suit,  and  that  plaintiff  was  to  recover  the 
amount  of  mortage. 

The  Supreme  Court  was  of  opinion  that  this 
judgment  appeared  to  do  substantial  justice 
between  all  parties,  and  as  no  objection  was 
made  in  the  whole  progress  of  the  suit  on  the 
ground  of  mis-joinder  of  parties  or  accumulation 
of  various  grounds  of  action,  the  judgment  was 
affirmed.     [No,  4455,  D.  C.  Amh'Umgodid&. 


Requisites  of 
an  4Sidavit 


820.— J.  W.  EusJcisson  v.  J.  T.  Whiteside. 
In  this  case  the  Supreme  Court  was  of  opi- 
nion that   the  affidavit  of  Mr.    Yander&pcmr, 


383 


1841.. 


wLich  was  the  only  one  put  in,  was  iu sufficient, 
inasmuch  as  it  only  stated  "  that  he  doth  verily 
"  believe,  and  halb  good  grounds  for  believing, 
"  that  the  plaintiff  intends  to  leave  the  juiis- 
"  diction  of  the  Court," — whereas  it  ought  to 
have  set  forth  facts  indicative  of  such  intention. 
The  Court  was  further  of  opinion  tliat  no 
authority  has  been  cited,  and  that  no  authority 
can  be  cited,  to  warrant  the  arrest  of  a  plaintiflf, 
at  the  instance  of  a  defendant,  for  the  purpose 
of  obliging  him  to  give  security  for  contingent 
and  untaxed  costs.     [No.  10883,  D.   C.    Galle. 

Bee.  24,  (C.) 
821. — Mendis  v.  Sosa. 
Besides  the  objection  arising  from  the 
laches,  or  dilatory  nature  of  the  plaintiff's  pro- 
ceedings, the  Affidavit  of  Merits  in  support  of 
the  application  for  leave  to  amend  was,  in  the 
opinion  of  the  Supreme  Court,  insufficient.  It 
did  not  appear  to  have  been  sworn  to,  and  had 
no  dale  inserted  ;  nor  did  it  specify  the  nature 
or  grounds  of  the  intended  amendments,  further 
than  by  alleging  generally  the  Proctor's  belief 
and  opinion  that  the  plaintiff's  pleadings  were 
defective  in  several  points,  "  and  that  conse- 
quently an  amendment  of  the  pleadings  are 
essentially  necessary."  Tlie  Supreme  Court 
cannot  act  blindfold  on  the  Proctor's  belief  and 
opinion,  but  must  be  informed  of  the  specific 
points  of  amendment,  and  be  satisfied  that  the 
same  would  not  have  the  effect  of  allowing  the 
plaintiff  to  set  up  anew^or  substantially  different 
case,  from  the  one  at  first  commenced.  [No. 
3685,  D.  C.  Amblangodde. 


for  Warrant 
of  Arrest.    • 


Plaintiff  can- 
not be  arrest- 
ed to  give  se- 
curity for 
contingent 
and  untaxed 
costs. 


Kequisites  of 

Affidavit  of 

Merits. 


Bee.  80,  (O.  C.  S.) 
822. — Franeina  Bias  v.  Bavid  Perera. 

In  an  action  of  defloration  it  does  not  appear 
that  the  plaiiltiff  must  make  oath  of  previous 
virginity  in  order  to  maintain  the  aetjou,  nor 
that  the  same  must  be  alleged  in  the  Lioel. 

"Where  in  the  Libel  damages  are  claimed  for 
breach  of  promise  of  marf  iage,  no  oath  could  be 


Defloration. 

Oath  and 
allegation   in 
the  Libel  of 
previous  vir- 
ginity not 
necessary. 

Breach  of 

Promise. 


1844 


384 


admitted  according  to  the  English  Law  of 
Evidence,  aud  consequently  cannot  be  admitted 
in  this  Island.     [No.  35800,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


A  creditor 
cannot  poss- 
ess more  tliau 
he  elected  to 
hold  under 
mortgage. 


823. — Galoo  Appoo  v.  Jaffer  Saiboo, 

Two  defendants  each  lent  an  equal  sum  to 
the  plaintiffs,  who  received  it  in  different 
amounts,  and  mortgaged  their  respective  pre- 
mises in  security.  The  Bond  expressed  that 
the  creditors  are  to  possess  the  lands  as  they 
wished.  They  possessed  by  each  taking  a  half^ 
and  possessing  it  separately.  One  of  the  cre- 
ditors being  in  want  of  money  received- the  sum 
advanced  by  him  from  the  debtors,  and  put  the 
plaintiffs  in  possession  of  the  half.  The  other 
creditor  entered  and  cultivated  the  half  so 
given  up,  and  maintained  his  right  so  to  do. 
The  Supreme  Court  held  that  he  had  no  right 
to  occupy  more  than  the  half  which  he  elected 
to  possess.  He  advanced  half  the  money,  and 
he  had  a  right  to  possess  half  the  premises; 
and  the  other  creditor  liad  a  right  to  give  up 
the  possession  of  his  share,  on  being  paid  his 
money,  when  he  pleased.  [No.  7521,  D-  C. 
Chilaw  and  Putlam. 


Deeds  &e., 

insufficiently 

stamped  not 

void. 


Dee.  31,  (C.) 

824. —  Gonetileke  v.  Wejekoon. 

Dona  Maria,  intervenient. 

The  interlocutory  order  of  the  Court  below 
was  modified  by  the  intervenient  being  allowed 
to  get  the  document  properly  stamped,  under 
the  provisions  of  the  Regulation  No.  4  of  1827, 
sect.  2  and  18,  and  of  the  Ord.  No.  6  of  1836, 
sect.  1  and  9,and  to  amend  also  her  Petition  of 
Intervention  by  more  distinctly  referring  to,  or 
setting  out  therein,  the  mortgage  deed  in  ques- 
tion. The  parties  to  bear  their  own  costs  in 
appeal,  and  on  the  order  of  the  Court  below. 

"The  Supreme  Court  concurs  with  the  District 
Court  as  to  the  instrument  being  insufficiently 
stamped,  because  it  is  an  obligation  to  secure 
£22  10s.  with  interest  at  12  per  cent.,  and  en 


385  1844 

default  to  transfer  a  share  in  a  garden  for 
£26  5s.,  or,  in  case  of  a  good  title  thereto  not 
being  made,  to  pay  an  additional  sum  of  £7  10s. 
The  instrument,  therefore,  should  bear  a  stamp 
for  £30.  The  Stamp  Laws  in  force  in  this 
Colony  do  not  render  deeds  &c.  void  when 
Btamped  insufficiently,  but  only  prohibit  their 
being  read  ia  evidence,  until  the  same  have 
been  duly  stamped  ;  and  the  proper  time  to  take 
the  objections  to  the  insufficiency  of  the  stamp 
is  at  the  trial  befoie  the  instrument  is  read  in 
evidence.  And  in  the  English  Courts  of  Equity 
a  cause  has  been  allowed  to  stand  over  to  enable 
a  party  to  get  an  instrument  properly  stamped. 
Huddlestone  v.  Briscoe,  1 1  Ves.  595.  Chawett 
v.  Jones,  6  Mad.  267."  [No.  11323,  D.  C. 
Caltura. 


1845. 


386 


Signification 
of  Barrator. 


■When  plain- 
tiff can  be 
called  on  to 
find  security 
for  Costs. 


In  the  ab- 
sence of  direct 


I8i5.— February  4,  (S.) 
825. — Canegesoory  v.  Purengy. 

I.]  The  Commissioner  of  the  Cou  rt 
of  Requests  observes  in  his  judgment  in  this 
case  that  the  plaintiff  is  a  Barrator  of  the 
worst  hind,  but  of  this  the  Supreme  Court  is 
unable  to  take  cognizance,  there  being  no  evi- 
dence to  that  effect  before  the  Court.  It  would 
appear  from  the  books  that  the  term  Barrator 
is  uncertain,  there  being  three  several  descrip- 
tions of  persons  to  whom  it  has  been  applied  : — 
first,  it  designates  an  individual  who  barters 
justice,  and  so  it  is  said  Baratriam  eommittU 
quipropter  pecuniam  jvMitiam  baraefat.  Secondly, 
it  is  used  by  Lobs  Coke  and  other  ancient  au- 
thorities, to  signify  a  common  mover,  exciter,  or 
maintainer  of  suits  or  quarrels  either  in  Courts 
or  in  the  country.  And  thirdly,  the  term  Bar- 
ratry denotes  a  fraud,  or  such  a  degree  of  culpa-^ 
ble  negligence  as  amounts  to  fraud  or  bad  faith, 
committed  by  the  master  or  marines  of  a  ship, 
with  relation  to  the  ship  or  cargo  under  his  care 
by  which  the  owner  or  freighters  may  be  in- 
jured. [No- 15522,  C.  E.  Jaffm. 

826. — Cornelis  Appoohamy  v.  Caroll. 

Kotice  of  motion  for  a  stay  of  proceedings 
until  the  plaintiflf  finds  security  for  costs,  must 
be  given  to  the  plaintiff.  It  is  not  clear  that 
a  plaintiff,  a  native  of  this  Island,  residing  in 
it,  possessed  of  property  within  it,  and  having 
no  intention  to  remove  therefrom,  can  be  called 
on  to  find  security  for  costs  ;  it  can  be  done  on 
these  grounds  only,  that  he  does  not  live  within 
the  District  in  trhich  the  action  is  pending,  and 
has  no  property  therein.  The  plaintiff  may 
have  had  good  grounds,  and  should  have  had 
time  given  him  to  show  cause  against  such 
security  being  demanded.  [No.  10943,  D.  0. 
Hegombo. 

Feb.  25,  (S.) 
827. — Vinedtamby  v.  Gaderen. 
This  was  a  suit  brought  to  i-ecover  a  balance 
of  the  Purchase  money  of  a  piece  of  land  sold 


387 


184.5 


to  the  de/endant  by  the  plaintiff.  "  There  is 
no  dii'ecfc  evidence  as  to  any  payments  ;  and,  on 
the  one  hand  we  have  the  plaintiff  stating  that 
he  had  received  only  9  shillings  of  the  amount, 
and  on  the  other  admitting  to  the  Notary  that 
he  had  received  the  full  sum,  and  to  another 
witness  that  he  had  received  30  Rds.  Under 
these  circumstances,  and  considering  also  the 
declaration  of  the  defendant  that  he  had  paid  the 
plaintiff  the  full  amount,  it  appears  to  the  Su- 
preme Court  that  the  defendants  possession  of 
the  title  deed,  in  which  full  payment  is  acknow- 
ledged by  the  plaintiff,  should  determine  the 
matter  in  favor  of  the  defendant."  [No.  3785, 
C.  E.  Jafna, 


828.— Hon.  A.  Buller  v.  Thomas IGlarJc. 

This  was  a  suit  at  the  instance  of  the  Crown 
in  the  nature  of  au  action  of  ejectment,  or  an 
information  of  intrusion.  The  defendant  justi- 
fied his  possession  of  the  lands  in  question  un- 
der a  Bill  of  Sale,  and  moved  the  Court  to  have 
the  vendor  to  him  made  a  party  to  the  suit. 
The  District  Judge  and  Assessors  considered 
thS  application  reasonable  and  granted  the 
same. 

"  The  Supreme  Court  is  inclined  to  the  same 
opinion  ;  but  on  looking  into  the  case  it  may  be 
that  the  information  is  open  to  objection  in 
respect,  1.  that  no  title  to  or  possession  of  the 
land  in  question  on  the  part  of  the  Crown  is 
stated  therein  ;  and  2.  that  the  nature  of  the 
act  charged  or  meant  to  be  charged,  and  its 
effect  upon  the  Crown's  rights,  (supposing  the 
property  to  be  in  the  Crown,)  and  damage, 
direct  or  consequential,  are  not  sufficiently  set 
out.  The  proceedings  are  therefore  remanded 
to  the  District  Court  to  hear  parties  on  the 
above  points  as  if  the  same  were  causes  of  de- 
murrer and  formally  pleaded,  and  give  judg- 
ment thereon.  In  the  event  of  the  judgment 
being  for  the  defendant  on  either  of  the  points 
above  stated,  he  will  of  course  be  entitled  to 
absolviter.    If  for   the  plaintiff,  the  case  will 


evidence  of 
non-paymeitfc, 
acknowledge- 
ment by 
Plaintiff  of 
receipt  of. 
Purchase 
money  in 
Tittle  Deed, 
sufficient  to 
determine  in 
defendantls 
favour. 


rieadings  in 
Crown  cases. 


184.5 


388 


proceed,  anJ  the  interlocutory  order  here  set 
aside  -will  be  made  de  novo.  [No.  5709.  D. 
C.  Jaffna.  304 


Qu  ?  whether 
a  C.  H.  has 
Jurisdiction 

in  a  case 
where  plain- 
tiff's claim  in 
Equity  to  tlio 
proceeds  of 
land  depend- 
ed on  his 
legal  title  to 
the  land. 


March  18,  (C.) 
829. — Adiran  v.  Ahedura. 

The  proceedings  in  this  CRse  were  reserved 
for  the  collective  decision  of  the  Judges  on  the 
following-  point : 

Whether  the  decision  should  not  be  set  aside, 
for  incompetency  of  the  Court  in  respect  to 
excess  of  jurisdiction,  from  the  matter  in  ques- 
tion relating  to  the  title  to  land  ;  as  the  plain- 
tiff's claim  in  Equity  to  the  proceeds  of  the 
land  in  deposit  depend  upon  his  legal  title  to 
the  land.*  [No.  30.  C.  R.  Maium. 
11480 


Power  of  D . 

C. to  order 

parties  to 

make  Reports 

in  Civil 

cases. 


April  12,  (0.) 
830. — Perera  v.  Juan  Allis. 

District  Courts  have  no  power  to  compel  any 
parties,  who  are  not  willing,  to  make  any  in- 
pections  or  reports  in  civil  cases,  and  such 
written  reports  and  inspections '  cannot  be  re- 
ceived as  evidence.  [No.  9866,  D.  C.  Negom- 
ho. 


Nature  of 
default  re- 
quired in 
Kotices. 


Apr.  14,  (0.) 

831. — Fernando  v.  Bose. 

Notice  to  shew  cause  why  judgment  should 
not  be  recorded  against  the  defendant,  must  set 
forth  the  particular  default ;  and  the  return  of 
service  must  be  sworn  or  affirmed.  [No.  10033, 
and  10004,  D.  0.  Negombo. 


*  See  Nell's  C.  R.  p.  96.  Subsequently  (on  the  3rd 
July)  the  full  Court  decided  that  the  Court  below 
exceeded  its  jurisdiction, 


389 


1845 


832. — Siman  v.  Battelepaihogey. 

The  Court  has  no  power  to  order  Surveys  : 
if  it  is  necessary  for  the  proper  understanding 
of  a  case,  on  the  day  of  trial,  that  the  plaintiff 
should  have  a  Chart  or  Diagram,  and  a  Surveyor 
to  explain  the  same  as  Lis  witness,  and  be  not 
so  provided,  the  defendant  will  either  be  absolv- 
ed from  the  instance,  or  the  plaintiff  allowed 
another  day  to  prove  his  case,  on  payment  of 
all  costs.  But  the  Court  has  no  power  to  inter- 
fere by  dismissing  a  case,  because  a  party  cannot 
pay  the  costs  of  a' survey  ordered  by  the  Court. 
[xVo.  7753,  D.  C.  Negomho. 


The  Court  has 
no  power  to 
order  a  Sur- 
vey. 


833. — Fernando  v,  Sielve. 

Where  the  plaintiff  claimed  by  inheritance, 
ield  that  he  was  not  bound  to  prove  unin- 
terrupted possession.  [No.  8044,  D.  C. 
Negombo. 

A^r.  15,  (0.) 

834. — Wdyrewen  v.  Maden, 

Where  the  plaintiff's  Proctor  moved  for  judg- 
ment, and  in  the  proceedings  it  did  not  appear 
that  the  defendants  had  any  notice  whatever 
that  such  motion  was  to  be  made,  tbe  Supreme 
Court  was  of  opinion  that  the  plaintiff  must 
have  given  48  hours  due  notice  to  the  defen- 
dant that,  on  such  a  day,  "  the  Court  would  be 
moved*^'  4fcc,  On  that  day  the  motion  must 
have  been  made,  and  on  the  hearing  of  that 
motion,  the  Court  must  have  proceeded  with 
the  defendant  as  directed  in  the  7th  rule  of  6th 
July  1842.  If  the  defendant  did  not  appear 
proof  of  the  service  must  have  been  given,  by 
the  oath  or  affirmation  of  the  person  who  ser- 
ved it,  [No.  536,  D.  C,  Jafm, 


Claim  by 
inheritance. 
Proof  of  Poss- 
ession  nune- 
cessary. 


Notice  of  mo- 
tion for  judg- 
ment neces- 
sary. 
Practice. 


835. — Celleti  v.  Cadramen. 

The  defendant  must  distinctly  either  deny  a  Eequisites  ot- 

promise,  or  admit  the  same,   and   avoid  it  by  —  '—- — 
submitting  that  the  promise  cannot  be  the  sub- 


an  Answer,. 


1843 


390 


ject  of  an  action,  being  illegal.     [No.  9889,  D. 
C,  Batticaloa. 


Notice  of 

Judgment 

must  state 

default, 


Service  of 

Summons 

must  be  sworn 

to.    Notice  of 

default, 


Judgment  tor 
Plaintiff  can- 
not be  affirm- 
ed when 
doubtfully  ex- 
pressed. 


Cattle  tres- 
pass. It  is 
the  owner's 
duty  to  look 
after  the  cat- 
tle. 


Documents 

should  be  pro- 

ducsd. 


836. — David  Appoo  v-  Silva. 
The  judgment     in    this  case  'Was    set  aside, 
as  the  Notice  of  motion  for  judgment   by   de- 
fault did  not  state  the  default.     [No.  9676,  D. 
C.  Negonibo, 

837. — Sarmanis  v.  Kosalhamy, 
Service  of  the  Summons  must  be  sworn  to  or 
affirmed  to,  and  in  the  Notice  that  judf<ment 
by  default  will  be  moved  for  the  default,  the 
default  must  be  mentioned.  [No.  10302,  D. 
C.  Negonibo. 

Apr.  22,  (O.) 
838.,— Pa^cer  Bawa  v.  Feria  Tamby. 

The  Supreme  Court  cannot  affirm  a  judgment 
doifbtfuUy  expressed,  when  the  judgment  is  in 
favor  of  the  plaintiff.  Set  aside,  and  the  plain- 
tiff Mcwswi^et?.     [No.  33122.  i).  C.  Colombo. 

May  6,  (S.) 

839.— PacJeier  v.  Sinne  Tamby. 

In  all  cases  where  cattle  are  seized  and  im- 
pounded for  trespass,  it  is  the  duty  of  tha 
owner,  not  of  the  distrainer,  to  take  notice 
thereof,  and  look  after  such  cattle.  Where  by 
delivering  over  the  bullock  to  a  Headman,  as 
customary  in  cases  of  trespass  by  cattle,  the 
defendant  discharged  himself  of  all  responsibi- 
liiy  for  the  animal,  and  the  bullock  died  without 
the  fault  of  the  defendant,  the  latter  is  not  only 
not  liable  to  damages,  but  has  still  his  action 
against  the  plaintiff  for  the  trespass.  [No.  117, 
C.  K.  Kandy. 

May  13,  (S.) 

840. — Walliamime  v.  Cader  Lehhe. 

All  documents  founded  on  by  parties  in  a 
suit  should  be  produced  to  allow  inspection 
thereof.    [No.  10007,  D.  C.  Batticaloa. 


391 

May  20,  (0.) 

841. — Baale  A;ppoo  v.  Dingy  Hamy. 

Where  a  Mortgage  Bond  affected  the  title  of 
the  land  thereby  secured,  and  possession  thereof 
was  nlso  granted  in  lieu  of  iuterest;  held  that 
the  Court  of  Requests  ought  not  to  have**lieard 
the  case  upon  its  merits,  and  adjudged  the 
plaintiff's  mortgage  deed  null  and  void  ;  but 
ought  to~  have  dismissed  the  ease  with  costs  for 
want  of  jurisdiction.     [No.  336,  C.  E.  Tangalle. 

June  3,  (C.) 

842.— Coosa?  Hamy  v.  Mudelihamy. 
If  a  plaintiff  confines  bis  claim  to  damages  for 
a  forcible  entry  on  the  land,  and  possession  of 
the  crop  by  defendant,  while  the  same  were  in 
the  occupation  of  the  plaintiff,  contrary  to  the 
provisions  of  the  Proclamation  of  5th  August 
1819,  the  Court  of  Requests  might  sustain 
jurisdiction  in  the  case,  as  the  matter  ■«(  ill*  not 
relate  to  the  title  of  the  land,  but  simply  as  to 
whether  the  provisions  of  the  Proclamation 
was  infringed  by  the  defendants  forcible  entry 
and  possession  of  the  crop,  without  the 
authority  of  a  competent  Magistrate,  while 
in  the  occupation  of  the  plaintiff.  Tlppn 
similar  grounds,  the  Rules  give  forms  of  action 
for  breaking  and  destroying  fences,  aud  inju- 
ring crops,  &c.,  where  the  title  is  not  the  mat- 
ter for  adjudication,  but  the  amount  of  damages 
for  the  trespass.    [No.  128,  C.  R.  Kaigalle. 

8i3.—Andris  Appoo  v.  Pusla  Dureya. 
The  amended  Answer  filed  in  this  case  by 
the  defendant  was  ordered  to  be  taken  off  the 
record,  because  the  motion  to  file  such  amended 
answer  had  been  made  without  due  notice  to 
the  opposite  party ;  and  as  no  Affidavit  of 
merits  had,  moreover,  been  filed,  nor  other  suf- 
ficient cause  appear,  on  the  proceedings,  to 
have  been  shewn  for  allowing  the  defendant  by 
an  amended  answer,  to  set  up  an  entirely  new 
case  against  the  intervenient's  claim.  [No. 
2353  D.  0.  Kandy. 
18337 


1843 


Jurisdiction 
C.K. 


The  C.  E  has 
jurisdiction 
under  Proof, 
of  5th  Aug. 
1819  in  claims 
for  damages, 


Affidavit  of 
Merits  and 
Notice  to 
opposite  par- 
ty necessary 
before  an 
amended 
Answer  is 
filed. 


IS-IS 


392 


Action  for 
defamation 
will  not  lie 
for  words 
used  during 
the  course  ef 
a  legal  pro- 
ceeding. 


Where  the  D. 
J.  as  A.  a.  A. 
was  concern- 
ed in  case,  it 
was  trans- 
ferred to 
another 
Court, 


rarol  sales. 

Ord.  7  of 

1834. 


July  1,  (C.) 

844. — Oesen  Pulle  v.  Sahabdulhader, 

An  action  for  defamation  will  not  lie  for 
words  used  during  the  course  of  a  legal  pro- 
ceeding by  the  defendant,  as  a  party  to  a  suit, 
on  his  objecting  to  the  plaintiff's  evidence, 
when  the  plaintiff  was  examined  as  a  witness 
against  the  defendant.  Weston  v.  Dolinet, 
Cro.  Jac.  432.     [No.  628,  0.  It.  Galpentyn. 

MS.— The  Eon.  A,  Buller  Q.  A.  v.  MenMsi 

On  the  motion  of  the  Queen's  Advocate, 
with  the  consent  of  the  defendants,  and  it  hav- 
ing been  made  to  appear  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the  Supreme  Court  that  the  Judge  of  the  Dis- 
trict Court  of  Chilaw  and  Putlam,  wherein  the 
above  cause  was  pending,  was,  as  Assistant 
Government  Agent  of  the  said  places,  concern- 
ed in  the  said  cause,  It  was  ordered  that  the 
said'case  be  transfered  to  the  District  Court 
of  Negombo  for  the  hearing,  trial,  and  decision 
of  the  same.  [No.  1879,  D.  C.  Chilaw  and 
Putlam, 

July  3,  (O.  C.  S.) 

846. —  Gamuda  v.  Pattanmaly. 

ZlhMnda,  iHtervenient. 

"  At  the  time  when  the  land  was  purchased 
by  the  plaintiff  there  was  no  law  which  prevent- 
ed an  interest  in  land  being  set  up  by  parol 
evidence,  and  there  is,  therefore  nothing  to 
preclude  the  defendants  and  the  intervenient 
from  showing  any  verbal  agreement  which  they 
or  those  whom  tbey  represent,  may  have  enter- 
ed into  with  the  plaintiff  at  the  time'  of  the 
purchase,  in  respect  of  the  conveyance  oy 
possession  among  themselves  of  so  much  of  the 
land  as  corresponded  with  the  proportions  of 
money  alleged  to  have  been  respectively  paid 
by  them  or  otherwise, 

"  The  Ordinance  No.  7.  of  183 i  which  re- 
pealed the  Proclamation  of  the  28th  of  October 
1820,  if  it  meant  to  prevent  saies  <&c.  of  land 
from  being  made  by  parol,  is  defective  in  this 


393, 


1845 


respect,  as  it  only  requires  tbat  if  such  sales  &c. 
be  passed  in  writing  on  or  after  a  certain  day, 
such  writing  must  be  executed  in  a  certain 
manner  ;  but  the  Ordinance  is  silent  as  to 
parol  sales,  agreements  &c.,  and  so  this  Court 
has  decided  in  former  cases."*  [No.  15378  D 
CKandy.   (Coll.) 


MT.-^Sidde  Lebbe  v.  Sinne  Lebbe. 

The  agreement  in  this  case  was  for  establish- 
ing an  interest  affecting  land,  and,  not  being  in 
writing,  was  held  to  come  within  the  2Qd  sect, 
of  the  Ord.  No.  7  of  1840  ;  and  therefore  void. 

(For  further  elucidation  of  this  decision,  the 
ohserTations  which  fell  from  the  Chief  Justice, 
who  delivered  the  judgment  of  the  Court,  are 
appended.} 

"  In  this  case  the,'produce  was  not  in  existence. 
In  the  cases  of  ^««KS  v.  Eoherts,  5  B.  sl  C. 
Mr.  JirsTiOE  Littlisdale  was  of  opinion  that 
tlie  crop  must  be  in  actual  existence  at  the  time 
of  the  contract,  and  in  none  of  the  many  cases 
bearing  upon  the  point  in  question,  is  a  con- 
trary opinion  intimated  by  any  one  Judge.  The 
crop  not  being  in  existence  at  the  time  of  this 
agreement,  no  goods  or  chattels  or  moveable 
property  then  in  esse  passed.  What  was  intend- 
ed to  be  passed  was  an  interest  in  produce  to 
be  raised  from  the  land.  Now,  if  this  be  not  an 
interest  in  land,  what  is  F  A  valuable  interest 
in  land  must  eithar  be  derived  from  what  can 
be  produced  from  its  surface,  or  placed  on  its 
surface,  or  dug  out  of  its  bowels  :  and  the  first 
of  these  is  the  most  general  and  the  greatest 
interest.    If  A,  a  proprietor  of  land,  agree  with 


Instrument 

affecting 

land  and 

coming 

within  §  2 

of  Ord.  7  of 

1840,  is  void. 


*  This  case  was  heard  on  Circuit,  and  the  judg. 
ment  of  the  Oonrt  below  was  affirmed,  subject  to  the 
opinion  of  the  Collective  Court  whether  the  appel- 
lants ought  to  be  let  into  evidence  of  the  plaintiff 
being  a  trustee  of  the  portion  claimed  by  them,  and 
if  the  plaintiff,  upon  satisfactory  proof  thereof,  can 
be  compelled  by  a  decree  to  transfer  such  portion 
over  to  the  defendants.  See  Midland  Circuit  Minutes, 
9th  October  1844. 


1845 


394 


B  that  for  a  certain  quantity  of  manure  to  be 
supplied,  or  a  certain  sura  of  money  to  be  paid 
by  B,  A  would  give  him  half  of  all  the  crops 
the  lands  should  produce  for  one  year  or  ten 
years,  would  not  B  acquire  a  half  interest  in 
the  surface  of  the  soil  ?  To  hold  an  agreement 
such  as  the  one  in  this  case,  not  to  be  within 
the  Ordinance,  would  be  to  nullify  it  altogether, 
and  to  allow  tiie  substantial  and  valuable  inter- 
est in  land  to  pass  without  an  agreement  in 
writing".     [No.  10286,  D.  C.  JHegombo. 


D.C. 

may  alter  an 

Interlocutory 

judgment. 


July  8,  (C.) 
848. — Janig  v.  Bdbonehy. 
Although  a  District  Court  cannot  alter  any 
final  decree,  yet  its  preparatory  or  interlocutory 
judgments  may,  at  any  time  previous  to  the 
final  decree,  be  altered,  amended,  or  even 
retracted  by  it.     [No.  5544,  D.  C.  Qalle. 


849. — Agemadoe  Lewe  v.  Odomanyna  Ismail. 
Treble  costs.        The   Court   of  fiequpst    have  no   power  to 
avvard  treble  costs.*     [No.  193,   C.  E.  Battica- 
loa. 


Illness  of 
Proctor  a 
good  cause 
for  postpon- 
ing a  trial. 


July  9,  (0.) 

850. — Cornelis  Soyza  v.  Jeronis  Silva. 
Where  the  District  Judge  reported  that  the 
plaintiff's  Proctor  was  absent  from  illness  on 
the  day  fixed  for  the  trial  of  the  case,  when  the 
defendants  were  absolved  from  the  instance,  it 
was  ordered  that  the  appeal  be  allovred  notwith- 
standing the  lapse  of  time.  If  a  suitor  employs 
a  Proctor  it  is  not  expected  that  the  suitor 
shall  be  present  at  tlie  trial,  and  the  illness  of 
the  Proctor,  if  known  to  the  Court  at  the  time, 
is  a  good  cause  for  postponing  the  trial  on  pay- 
ment of  the  costs  of  the  day.  [No,  3582,  D. 
C.  Ratnapoora, 


*  See  Nell's  C.  E.  p. 


595 


1845 


July  \\,  (O.  C.  S) 
851. — Young  v.  Shand. 
Tlie  Commissioaer  cau  alone  postpone  a  case 
and  fix  uhotuer  day  for  the  hetiring  of  ifc.  It 
is  necessary  that  a  def'eudant  should  have  le- 
gal notice  of  the  day  on  which  interlocutory 
judgraent  entered  against  him  is  to  be  made 
final.     [Nu.  86,  C.  R.  Ratnapoora.* 


852. — Sidowy  v.  Sinny. 
G.  W.  Collette,  appellant. 
Ill  this  case  the  District  Court  of  Tenmo- 
ratchy  and  Patchelapalle  condemned  the  apel- 
lunt,  a  froctor  of  I  hat  Court,  (who  had  leport- 
ed  tl:at  the  plaintiff,  a  pauper,  had  a  good  cause 
of  action,)  to  pay  all  the  costs  of  this  suit,  ex- 
ceptiuf^  those  of  one  defendant,  on  the  ground 
that,  "  had  he  made  the  slightest  enquiry  from 
■'  the  witnesses,  or  the  most  cursory  examina- 
"  tiou  of  tiie  documents  upon  which  the  plain- 
■"  tiff'  founded  her  claim,  he  would  never  have 
"reported  favorably  for  the  plaintiff'."  At  the 
time  when  the  decree  was  made,  (2nd  Sept. 
1844,)  the  appellant  was  not  Proctor  for  the 
Plaintiff,  the  latter  having  given  a  proxy  to  Mr. 
WUliamsz  on  the  31st  March  IS^S.  Neither 
was  the  appellant  in  Court  or  residing  at  Cha- 

.  VBgacherry,  nor  does  he  appear  to  Lave  had  any 
notice  to  attend  the  Court  when  tlie  judgment 
against  him  was  pronounced  ;  nor,  so  far  as 
appears  on  the  proceedings,  had  he  any  notice 
of  the  judgment  until  the  27th  of  March  1845, 
and  after  the  case  had  been  transferred  to  the 
District  Court  of  Jaffna.  On  the  next  day  he 
Bliowed  cause  why  he  should  not  pay  the  costs, 
but  the  District  Court  of  Jafi"na  held,  that  as 
he  had  not  appealed  against  the  judgment 
of  the   District    Court     of  Tenmoratchy   and 

i Patchelapalle,  ifc  could  not  interfere,  and 
that  full  effect  should  be  given  to  the  judg- 
ment. The  appellant  appealed  and  the  whole 
case  was  reserved  for  the  consideration  of 
(he    Supreme    Court     afc   General    Sessions  . 

*  Interlocutory  Judgments  are  unknown  to  the 
present  C.  B.  Ordinance  No.  8  of  1269.   MS., 


By  whom 
cases  can  be 
postponed. 
Notice  when 
interlocutory 
judgment  is 
to  be  made 
final  neces- 
sary. 


A  Proctor 
cannot  be 

cast  in  costs 
of  suit  for  re- 
porting that 

plaintiff,  a 
pauper,  had  a 
good  cause  of 
action,  unless 
he  was  guilty 
of  gross  negli- 
gence. 


1845  396 

and  the  opinion  of  tbe  Supreme  Court  was  that 
there  was  nothing  in  any  (locumeat  filed  which 
should  have  satisfied  the  appellant  that  the 
plaiotifE  had  no  good  cause  of  action,  and  that 
it  was  impossible  to  conclude  that  the  witnesses 
told  the  appellant  the  same  story  they  did  in 
Court,  and  generally  that  there  was  not  such 
gross  negligence  on  the  part  of  the  appellant 
as  to  rander  him  liable  for  tlie  costs.  And  the 
Court  further  found  that,  at  the  time  when 
judgment  was  given  by  tbe  Court  of  Tenmorat- 
chy  and  Pafohelajpalle,  tbe  appellant  was  not 
employed  in  the  fase,  and  was  not  presumed  to 
be  in  Court  or  to  know  anything  of  the  judg- 
ment, and  that  therefore  the  judgment  was  not 
binding  on  him,  and  so  far  as  regards  him  it 
should  bo  reversed.     [No.    4517,  D.  C.  Jaffna. 

(Coll.)  

853. — Agemado  Lewe  v.  Nyna  Markair. 
In  this  case  the  plaintiff  complained  that  the 
defendant  took  out  a  Writ  against  the  husband 
of  a  Moorish  woman,  and  sequestered  land 
which  that  woman  had,  during  her  coverture, 
Boldtobim.  The  deed  of  sale  in  favor  of  the 
plaintiff  was  from  tbe  woman  alone,  and  the 
conveyance  to  her  is  to  her  alone.  The  defen- 
dant pleaded  that  tbe  sale  to  the  plaintiff  was 
■fraudulent,  it  having  been  made  after  the  se- 
questration of  the  land  ;  but  he  did  not  allege 
that  tbe  conveyance  to  tbe  wife  was  done  with 
a  view  to  defraud  him,  the  defendant,  or  credi- 
tors generally,  and  there  was  nothing  to  show 
that  his  debtor,  tbe  husband,  was  in  his  debt  at 
the  date  of  that  conveyance.  The  plaintiff  re- 
plied that  the  land  was  given  to  the  wife  by 
her  brothers;  and  admitted  that  if  it  bad  been 
acquired  by  the  married  pair,  tbe  conveyance 
would  have  been  either  to  both  tbe  husband  and 
wife,  or  to  the  husband  alone.  The  defendant, 
in  his  Rejoinder,  offered  to  prove,  if  called  upon 
to  do  so,  that  the  money  paid  for  the  land  was 
the  husbands,  and  denied  that  the  plaintiff  was 
light  in  his  law,  which  he,  the  plaintiff  said, 
was  to  be  fdund  of  date  the  1st  August  1806. 
Tbo  JDistrict  Court  found   that  the  land  was 


397 


1845 


acquired  property :  at  least,  that,  in  the  absence 
of  proof  of  the  alleged  gift  by  tUo  brothers,  it 
gbould  presume  so  ;  and  also  held  that  the 
defendant  was  entitled  to  sell,  under  bis  Writ, 
Lalf  of  the  said  land  as  tbe  husband's  share. 

Judgment,  It  appears  to  tbe  Supreme  Court 
that  tbe  case  should  be  remanded  to  tbe  Court 
beloW;  to  take  proof  as  to  who  furnished  the 
funds  for  tbe  purchase  of  the  land  in  question  ; 
and  if  it  be  proved  that  they  were  furnished  by 
the  brothers  of  Myinoonachi,  the  plaintiff's  ven- 
dor, then  to  take  the  opinion  of  Moorish  assessors 
whether,  in  such  case,  it  is  to  be  treated  as  an 
acquisition  or  not ;  but  if  it  be  proved  that  the 
same  was  purchased  by  funds  belonging  to  tbe 
vendor  and  her  husband,  then  it  should  be  put 
to  such  assessors  whether  the  land  could  in  such 
case  be  conveyed  to  the  wife  alone,  and  be  treat- 
ed as  her  separate  property.  [No.  8169,  D'.  C. 
Batticaloa  (Coll.)        

Qbii.'—Jayewardene  v.  Stniweratne, 

Judgment  given  in  this  case  in  the  District 
Court  on  tbe  26th  August  1840  was,—"  That 
tbe  plaintiffs  case  be  dismissed,  and  that  he  do 
pay  costs."  No  step  was  taken  on  the  part  of 
the  defendants  for  the  recovery  of  tbe  costs 
awarded  by  that  judgment,  until  tbe  29tb  of 
November  1843,  when,  on  tbe  application  of 
the  defendant's  Proctor,  it  was  ordered  by  the 
District  Court  that  tbe  plaintiff  should  be  sum- 
moned to  shew  cause  why  a  "Writ  should  not 
issue.  The  plaintiff  showed  for  cause  that  the 
debt  had  prescribed,  it  being,  as  he  called  it, 
a  "  book  account,"  and  the  application  for  ex- 
ecution not  having  been  made  until  after  the 
lapse  of  three  years.  The  District  Court, 
thereupon,  gave  judgment  that  execution 
should  issue. 

Judgment  affirmed.  In  tbe  Censura  Forensis 
part  2,  lib.  1,  ch.  31.  p.  142,  it  is  laid  down  as 
one  of  the  requisites  of  a  sentence — "  ut  sump- 
"  tuum  et  expensarum  condemnationem,  aut  com- 
"pensationem  contineat.  Begulariter  enim  vie- 
"  tus  victori  in  eccpensas  judicis  arhitrio  taxan- 
"  das,  et,  moderandas,   condemnari  debet."    It 


Costs  in  acase 
are  part  of  the 
sentence,  and 
not  prescrib- 
ed as  a  book 
debt. 


1845 


398 


Where  Bond 
is    denied, 
proof  of  exe- 
cution indis- 
pensable. 


is  also  siated  in  Vim  Leeuwen's  Inst,  llmt  the 
coats  are  part  of  the  sentence,  p.  631  et  seq. 
Tbisis,  therefore,  no  book  debt  bclvveen  the 
plaintiif  and  the  defendant,  but  a  judi^ment 
debt  which  has  not  prescribed.  "With  regard  to 
the  costs  not  iiaving  been  taxed  until  after  three 
years  after  the  sentence,  this  does  not  affect 
the  case,  for  the  costs  wove  given  by  the  judg* 
ment,  and  the  rule  "  certum  est  quod  certum 
reddi  potest^  here  applies.  [No  6666,  D.  C. 
Chilmv  and  Putlam. 


July  15,  (C.) 
855. —  Wayremotto  v.  Phillippen. 
Where  the  defendant  denied  the  granting  of 
a  Bond,  and  there  was  no  proof  of  the  execu- 
tion of  it  ;  held,  that  the  Court  ought   to    have 
required  proof  of  the   execution,  instead  of  dis- 
pensing    with    it    from     the    Commissioner's 
personal  knowledge  of  the  respectability  of  the 
Notary.     [No.    419    C,   E.  Jaffna. 
5184 


Plea  01-  Ex- 
ception need 
not  be  verified 
by  Affidavit. 


Where 
plaintiff  sned 

as  heir  to 
eject  defen- 
dants, who 
were  under  a 
Codicil  allow- 


856. — Baba  Samy  v.  Bdba  Appo". 

There  is  no  law  or  rule  of  practice  in  this 
Colony  requiring  a  dilatory  plea  or  exception 
to  be  verified  by  Affidavit.  Pleas  in  abatement 
in  England  are  required  to  be  so  verified  by  ex- 
press provision  of  the  Statute,  4  Ann.  c.  16.  s. 
11,  which  does  not  extend  to  this  Colony  ;  but 
the  2nd  defeudaut  ought  together  with  such  a 
plea  to  answer  over  on  the  main  question. 
•Vander   Linden,  415.      [No.     12149,     D.   0 

Chilaw.  

July  24,    (O.  C.  S.) 

857. —  Gilbert  v.  Wtlliamsz,  widow  RulaoJc. 

In  this  case  the  first  plaintiff  as  the  heir  of 
the  late  Tliomas  Hagel,  and  the  second  plaintiff 
as  the  only  surviving  Executor  of  his  Labt  Will, 
brought  an  action  to  eject  the  defendants  from 
a  house,  which  the  plaintiffs  alleged  the  said 
Nagel  by  a  codicil  "allowed  tlie  1st,  2ad,3rd,  and 
"  6th  defendants  to  inhabit  and  reside  in,  on. 


399 


IS.'S 


''  condlliou  llmt  the.  title  deed  Lliereof  should 
"  remain  with  liis  Executor  to  prevent  the 
"same  being  sold  or  mortgaged."  The  grounds 
on  which  tiie  plaintiff  sought  to  eject  the  defen- 
dants was  that  they,  the  defendants,  are 
allowing  tlu'  ^remises  to  go  to  ruin.  The 
plaintiffs  ad^"  <■  the  defendanfs  to  have  been 
in  possesion  of  tbe  premises  more  than 
twenty  years  previous  to  the  commeneenieat 
of  this  suit.  Tlte  defendants  deuitd  that 
the  house  belonged  to  Aaqel,  and  siiid  tha.t 
tliey  never  possessed  it  througii  hirn.  They  also 
pleaded  prescription  in  bar  of  plaintiffs  action. 
The  plaintiffs  produced  no  title  deed  to  prove 
that  the  house  was  ever  conveyed  to  JKagel,  but 
a  witness  was  called  by  them  who  swore  that  he 
was  present  when  Nagel  bought  it  at  Auction 
thirtj  years  ago  ;  and  admissions  of  one  of  the 
defendants  have  been  proved  wliich  ^o  far  to 
show  that  the  house  was  part  of  NageVs  Estate. 
The  District  Court  found  that  the  defendants 
were  entitled  to  judgment  as  having  acquired 
a  prescriptive  title  ;  and,  on  appeal,  the 
whole  case  was  reserved  for  tlie  decision 
of  the  Judges  collectively,  and  the  case 
having  been  considered  at  the  general  Sessions, 
ihe  Supreme  Court  was  of  opinion  that,  there 
was  not  sufficient  evidence  of  undisturbed 
possession  on  the  part  of  the  defendants,  by  a 
title  adverse  to,  or  independent  of  the  plain- 
tiffs, to  entitle  the  defendants  to  a  judg- 
ment in  their  favour  ;  and  that  the  plaintiffs  did 
Dot  make  out  their  case  to  entitle  them  to 
judgment.  The  decree  of  the  Court  below  was 
set  aside,  and  the  defendants  were  absolved  from 
the  instance,  without  costs.  [Jfo.  14357,  D.  C. 
Jaffna.  (Coll.) 


ed  to  reside 
on  the  premi- 
ses, and  the 
D.  J  gave 
.ludgment  for 
defendiints  on 
tlie  strength 
of  their  pre- 
scriptive title, 
the  >^.  C  deci- 
ded that 
there  was  not 
sufficient  evi- 
denceof  undis- 
turbed pos- 
session by  de- 
fendants by 
title  adverse 
to   and  inde- 
pendent of 
plaintiffs,  and 
absolved  de- 
fendants from 
the  instance. 


858— Weireman  v.  Jayesmdra. 

The  parties  in  this  case  brought  an  action 
jointly  against  one  Theodoris  de  Silva  Amer- 
emhe  Aratchy  in  the  District  Court  of  Galle, 
No,  30?9,  and  it  was  decreed  therein,  "  that 
"  the  case  be  dismissed,  the  plaintiffs  paying 
"  the  costs. "    A  Writ  of  Execution  was  issued 


Where  two 
plaintiffs  were 
cast  in  costs, 

and  one  of 
them  paid  the 

whole 
amount,  and 


1815 


400 


afterwards 
instituted  a 
case  to  reco- 
ver half  the 

amount  so 
paid  from  the 

other  plain- 
tiff, and  the 
D.  .1 .  thought 
his  claim  pre- 
scribed by 
Old.  8  of 
1834,  clauses 
5  and  6    S.  C. 
set  aside  the 
judgment  and 

considered 
costs  to  be  a 

joint  and 
several  debt 

and  as  such 

a  compulsory 

payment. 


upon  that  judgment  against  both  the  plaintiffs 
and  one  of  them  paid  the  whole  coats,  aud  after 
the  lapse  of  three  years,  brought  the  preaent 
action  to  recover  half  the  ampunt  so  paid  by 
him,  from  his  co-plaintiff,  the  present  defend- 
ant. The  dt!fendant  pleaded  the  5th  and  6th 
clauses  of  the  Ordinance  No.  8  of  1834  in  bar 
of  the  plainliff's  claim,  aud  issue  was  joined  on 
their  applicability  to  the  case.  The  District 
Court  held  the  plea  of  the  defendant  good,  and 
the  esse  having  been  brought  before  the  Su 
preme  Court  on  Circuit,  by  appeal,  it  was  reser- 
ved for  the  opinion  of  the  Judges  collectively, 
and  argued  before  them  at  the  General  Ses- 
sions. 

Judgment.  Decree  set  aside,  and  the  plain- 
tiff to  recover  from  the  defendant  the  sura  of 
M6  15s.  3id.  and  interest.  It  has  been  urged 
before  this  Court  on  the  part  of  the  respondent 
that  the  appellant  was  not  in  the  former  case 
liable  to  pay  the  whole  of  the  costs,  and  that 
efich  of  the  co-plaintiffs,  in  that  case,  was  by  that 
judgment  bound  to  pay  only  his  share  of  those 
costs  and  no  more-  (Voet.  lib.  4.  tit.  1.  s,  24.) 
That  the  payment  upon  which  the  present  ac- 
tion IS  founded  was  voluntary,  and  that  there- 
fore the  case  comes  under  the  5th  clause  of  the 
Ordinance  as  either  a  "  contract  relating  to 
moveable  property,"  or  "  money  lent  without 
bond  &c."  That  monies  and  debts  of  this  kind 
class  under  the  head  of  "  moveable  property," 
(Viin.  Leeuweu's  Gomtn.  p.  102.  Swinburne  On 
Wills,  vol  3,  p  p.  928 — 936 ;)  but  it  mighb 
even  fali  under  the  head  of  ■'  money  lent,"  &a 
the  distinctions  of  "  money  paid,"  "  laid  out 
and  expended,"  "  had  and  received,"  are  crea- 
tures of  the  English  Law,  by  which  they  would 
all  class  under  the  head  mutuum.  That  the 
appellant  as  the  negotiorttm  gestor  of  the  res- 
pondent, his  co-plaintiff  in  the  former  case,  paid 
money  for  him,  and  the  transactions  ought  to  be 
looked  upon  as  a  mutuum.  (Viunius  Inst.  lib. 
3.  tit.  17.  p.  627  )  That  there  is  a  case  similar 
in  some  respects  to  the  present,  and  in  which 
such  a  transaction  has  been,  even  by  the  English 


401  1845 

Law  looked  upon  as  a  case  of  money  lent:. 
{Wade  V.  Jfilson,  1  East,  195.)  That  the" 
Ordinance,  like  the  English  Statutes  of 
Limitation,  which  have  been  emphatically 
termed  "  Statutes  of  Kepose"  (2ud  Chifty 
on  Stat,  p.  ,697,  in  note,)  ought  to  be  liberally 
and  beneficially  expounded,  and  therefore  ought 
to  be-considered  to  include  cases  of  "  money 
paid ,"  "  laid  out  and  expended."  &c.,  (2nd 
Chitty  on  Stat,  p.  702.  Blanchard  on  Limita- 
tions, p.  87.)  '1  hat  the  appellant  had  no  cession 
of  action,  and  has  not  therefore  the  same  rights 
ns  the  judgmeflt  creditor.  That  without  this 
cession  he  has  propria  nomine  an  action  pro 
mandati  or  pro  socio  ;  (Vinnius  lib.  3,  tit.  17.  p. 
637.  Voet  lib.  45.  tit.  2  sect.  7.  Pothier  on 
Obligations,  vol.  1.  p.  166  ;)  and  the  judgment 
nut  being  the  basis  of  the  present  action,  but 
only  collateral  evidence  in  support  of  it,  the 
prescription  of  a  judgment  would  not  apply- 
But  this  Court  is  of  opinion  that  although 
the  Dutch  Law  may  be  as  stated  by  the  learned 
counsel  for  the  respondent,  yet  this  Court  is 
bound  by  its  decision  of  the  28th  December 
1837,  in  the  AmUangodde  case  No.  1676,*  and 
by  the  practice  having  been  invariably  such  as 
stated  therein.  It  is  now  established  that  when 
parties  are  condemned  in  costs  generally  they 
are  all  liable  singuli  in  solidum,  and  it  follows, 
therefore,  that  this  was  not  a  voluntary  but 
a  compulsory  payment.  The  Court  is  further 
of  opinion  that  an  argument  cannot  be  main- 
tained, as  indeed  none  was  offered,  that  the 
case  comes  under  the  6fh  sect,  and  the  only 
question  has  been  whether  it  comes  under  the 
5th.  As  the  payment  is  held  to  have  been  a 
compulsory  one,  this  action  cannot  be  said  to  be 
for  the  recovery  of  "  money  lent."  Neither  is 
it  founded  upon  an  unwritten  "promise  con- 
tract, bargain,  or  agreement  relating  to  move- 
able property,"  and  the  only  question  which 
remains  for  consideration  is  '  whether  it  is 
action    "  for    any   moveable    property."    The 

*  Se«  Morgan's  Digest  p.  203,  par  645. 


1845 


402 


words  "  moveable  property"  must  be  coustrued 
iti  the  limited  sense  of  corporeal  property,  ex- 
clusive of  chosea  in  action.  For,  otherwisp, 
after  the  words  "  moveable  property"  should 
have  been  inserted  the  words  "  except  as  afore- 
said," to  shew  that  the  5th  sectioa  was  not 
repugnant  to  the  two  immediately  preceding 
it,  and  wliich  pi ovide  different  terms  of  limita- 
tion for  the  moveable  (taken  in  the  wide  sense 
of  the  word)  therein  mentioned.  Neither  can 
"  moveables"  have  been  intended  to  comprehend 
money  ;  for  then  there  would  have  been  no 
occasion  to  add  the  words  "  or  to  recover  money 
lent."  The  Court  has  no  reason  to  suppose 
that  under  the  term  "moveable  property" it  was 
meant  to  include  either  action  to  which  a  plain- 
tiff had  a  right  by  action,  or  which  he  was  en- 
titled to  bring  eo  nomine.  [No.  3262,  D.  C. 
Galle. 


Non-pay- 
snent  of  costs 
by  a  pauper 
no  bar  to  his 
proceeding  on 
with  the  case. 


Estimated 
value  of  arti- 
cles proved  to 
have  been 
stolen,  and 
not  account 
for,  can  be  re- 
covered from 
defendant. 


Auff.  5,(^0.) 
859. — Cade)'  Bible  v.  JSicol  Qualies. 

The  following  order  was  made  in  this 
case:— "That  the  plaintiff  be  at  liberty  to 
■  amend  her  libel,  and  pay  any  costs  the  defen- 
dant may  incur  by  her  so  doing  ;  but  that  as  the 
plaintiff  has  been  admitted  to  sae  in  forma  pro- 
peries,  the  non-payment  of  such  costs  shall  not 
be  any  bar  to   her  proceeding  with  the  action." 

"Where  the  plaintiff  cannot  be  supposed  to 
know  accurately  the  articles  claimed,  by  her, 
nor  the  precise  value  thereof,  the  Supreme 
Court  directed  her  to  insert  all  things  which  slio 
presumed  to  have  been  taken  away  by  the  defeu- 
iiant,  and  the  estimated  value  thereof,  and  what- 
ever of  these  she  could  prove  to  have  been  taken 
and  nut  aecunted  for  by  the  defendant,  she 
will  be  entilled  to  recover  from  him,  [No. 4469, 
D.  C.  Manaar. 


Taxation  of  ^^^^  ~  '^'^^"''^  ^'  ^^rigerepMe. 

costs— Prac-         Ou  the  7th    April   an   application  was   made 
tice,  by  way  ofmouou  for  a  notice  on  the  defendant 


403 


1845 


lo  be  present  at  the  taxation  of  costs.     And  the 
same  waa  ordered  by  the  Judge. 

"  The  41st  rule  of  sect.  I,  Civil  Jurisdiction, 
does  not  suggest  the   necessity  of  coming  to  the 
Court  in  the  first  instance,    but  only_  after  the 
taxation  has   been    made  by  the  Secretary   if 
either    party  be  not  satisfied  ;  and   the   rule  of 
80th  December  1844  clearly  points  out  the  prac- 
tice to  be   adopted.     Instead   of  troubling   the 
Court  the  plaintiffs    Proctor  should  have  appli- 
ed to  the   Secretary  of  the  Court  to  appoint  a 
time  for  the  taxation   of  costs,  and  given  notice 
thereof  to  the  defendant's  Proctor,  if  he  had  one, 
or  to  the   defendant,  if  he   had   none.     At  the 
time  appointed  the  Secretary  should  have  taxed 
the  costs  in  his   own  office,  and  if  either  party 
were  dissatisfied,  then,  for  the  first  time,  should 
the  Court  have  been  applied  to. 
"  Then  follow  two  irregular  orders  consequent 
on  the  former,  and  on  the  26th  the  defendant 
is  required  to  file  objections   in  Court  to  a  Bill 
of  costs  which  the  Secretary  has  not  yet  taxed, 
and  the  objection   is  by  another   order  referred 
to  the  taxing  officer,  all  of  which   proceedings 
appear  to  be   irregular  and   against  the  Rules." 
[No.  5578,  D,C.  Walligamo, 


Aug.  19,  (0,) 
861. — Salmcm  v.  Zuan. 
"  The  Court  is  not  obliged  to  be  satisfied  by 
an  '  affidavit  of  merits*  in  all  cases,  but  may 
.  be  satisfied  on  "  other  sufficient  grounds"  that 
the  defendant  ought  to  have  leave  to  purge  his 
default  J  but  the  defendant  and  not  the  plain- 
tiff, ought  in  such  cases  to  pay  the  costs  occa- 
sioned by  the  default.  The  plaintiff  appears  to 
have  acted  regularly  according  to  the  practice 
adopted  in  the  Galle  Court,  and  admitted  from 
the  alleged  necessity  of  the  case,  namely,  by 
serving  the  notice  of  motion  for  judgment  thro' 
the  Sheriff,  instead  of  moving  for  judgment  in 
Court,  and  there  proving  the  service  of  notice 
that  such  motion  would  be  made,  as  the  rule 


Affidavit  of 
merits  by 
itself,  not 
suffloient  to 
purge  defen- 
dant's de- 
fault. 

Practice  of 
local  Court. 


184S 


40^ 


prescribes.  It  is,  therefore,  ordered  that  the  lu- 
terlocutory  order  of  the  Court  belOw  be  set  nside 
and  that  the  defendant  Lave  leave  to  purge  his 
default  on  payment  of  all  costs  occasioned 
thereby,  and  be  allowed  to  file  Answer  within 
eight  days  after  notice  of  this  order,"  [No. 
11735,  D.  C.   Galle. 


Where 
Notice  and 
copy  of  Plead- 
ing not 
correctly 
copied  and 
served,  the 
Proctor  cast 
in  costs. 
It  is  unpro- 
fessional for 
a  Proctor  to 
draw  plead- 
ings without 
a  Proxy. 


8G2. — Maersayboe  v-  Qanden. 

Judgment.']  The  6th  rule  of  1842  requires  a 
"  notice  with  a  copy  of  the  pleading  filed  to  be 
served"  &c.,  the  object  of  which  is  to  avoid 
the  necessity  of  the  party  receiving  the  same 
coming  up  to  Court  to  examine  the  original 
pleading,  and  to  enable  him  to  give  his  Proctor 
instructions  to  draw  hi«  counter-pleading.  It 
is,  therefore,  with  the  copy  that  he  has  to  do, 
and  not  with  the  original.  It  wasthe  duty  of  the 
Proctor  for  defendant  to  draw  the  notice  and 
copy  correctly  ;  he  has  not  done  so,  and  has 
occasioned  the  mischief  and  expense  which  has 
followed.  It  is,  therefore,  ordered  that  the 
interlocutory  order  of  the  Court  below  ba  af- 
firmed,  save  as  to  such  part  therof  as  relates  to 
the  paytnent  of  casts,  which  shall  be  paid  by  the 
Proctor  for  defendant.  It  is  further  ordered 
that  the  plaintiflf  do  either  join  issue  with  or 
reply  to  the  answer  within  eight  days  after  no- 
tice of  this  order.  The  Libel  purports  to  be 
drawn  by  W.  Martensz  Pr,  which  letters 
"  Pr."  are  supposed  to  mean  Proctor,  but  no 
proxy  is  filed  by  him.  Surely  no  Proctor  draws 
pleadings  irregularly  as  a  Petition  drawer,  if  so 
he  is  cautioned  against  such  an  unprofessional 
practice  in  future.    No.  880,  D,  C.  Jqfna. 


Proctor 
may  elect  to 
proceed  with- 
out an  Advo- 
cate; but  he 
cannot  do  the 


863. — Bird  v.  Sinne  Marhar. 
In  a  case  of  a  simple  nature  upon  a  Promis- 
scry  note,  it  is  competent  for  the  Proctor  for 
plaintifi"  to  make  his  election  either  to  do  all 
the  professional  business  himself  without  em- 
ploying an  Advocate,  or  to  employ  an  Advocate 


d05 

to  do  that  branch  of  the  busines8  more  proper 
for  the  Advocate  ;  but  it  is  not  competent  for 
tbe  Proctor  to  do  the  Advocate's  more  peculiar 
work,  to  charge  for  tlie  same,  and  to  employ 
an  Advocate  to  peruse  and  sign.  [Ifo.  423. 
D.  C.  Colombo. 


1845 

Advocate's 

work  and 

charge  for  it. 


Sept.  2,  (0.) 
864. — Don  Bastian  v.  Cripps. 
Tbe  Court  is  not  able  to  draw  any  distinc- 
tion between  tbis  case,  and  the  case  of  a  corres- 
pondence between  an  Agent  of  Government  and 
a  Secretary  of  State,  which,  on  grounds  of 
being  prejudicial  to  public  interests,  is  not  per- 
mitted  to  bo  disclosed.  Phillips  Uvid.  vol.  1, 
p.  181,  ch.  6.  sec.  2.     [No.  10965,  D.  C.  GalU. 

8G6. —Mudianseley  v.  Madolumea. 
Defendant  had  no  right,  on  account  of  tres- 
pass, to  break  an  animals  leg  by  any  law  at 
present  in  existence  of  which  tbe  the  Court  is 
aware.  Fiie  Ordinance  No.  2  of  1835.  [No. 
152,  C.  E,  Batnapoora. 

Sept.  9,  (0,) 

866. — Don  Domingo  v.    Walon  Appoo. 

Menik  Hamy,  intervenient. 

On  the  16th  April  Proctors  for  plaintiffs  and 
defendants  being  present,  the  case  was  ordered 
to  stand  out  of  tbe  trial  roll  and  interrenienta 
to  amend  ;  on  the  16bh  July,  the 
amended  petition  was  filed,  and  on  the  I7tb  a 
motion  was  made  to  reinstate  the  case.  The 
District  Court  refused,  and  tbe  Supreme  Court 
thought  properly.  The  plaintiff's  Proctor 
should  have  resisted  the  case  standing  out  of 
the  roll  when  be  bad  an  opportunity  on  the  16th 
April.    [No.  34872,' D.  C.  Colombo. 


Disclosure 
of  State  cor- 
respondenca 
prejudicial  to 
public  in- 
terests. 


Trespass 
will  not  jus- 
tify injury. 


Where  the 
Proctor  for 
PlaintifTa 
allows  a  case 
to  be   struck 
off  the    T.  E. 
to  allow  inter- 
vention, he 
cannot  move 
to  reinstate 
the  case. 


867. — Sedembranader  v.  Sangerapulle. 
Judgmenf]     Tbe  Country  law  either  followa 
or  concurs  with  the  Dutch  law  in  bo  far  as, 


1845 


40S 


By  the 
Dutch,  and 
country  Laws, 
the  principle 
that  interest 
is  not  to  ex- 
ceed principal 
applies  oiUy 
to  interest  in 
arrear. 


■when  interest  is  ia  arrear,  and  such  arrear  ex- 
ceeds the  principal,  no  more  interest  is  allowed 
then  the  amount  of  the  principal  that  is  to  say, 
the  principal  must  be  paid,  and  a  sum  equal 
thereto  as  interest,  but  no  more.  (It  maybe 
difficult  to  say  upon  what  grounds  such  a  rule 
was  established ;  it  is  unknown  to  the  English 
law.)  But  when  interest  is  not  in  arrear^  no 
such  principal  as  has  been  recognized  by  the 
Commissioner,  obtains  in  the  Dutch  law,  nor  in 
the  Country  law;  at  least,  the  case  has  never  been 
attempted  to  be  argued.  Neither  is  there  any 
Equity,  so-far  as  the  Judge  can  perceive  before 
whom  this  case  comes,  in  the  principle.  Ou  the 
contrary,  it  is  equity  that  every  man  should 
receive  back  the  whole  amount  of  the  money  he 
has  lent,  and  a  reasonable  compensation  for  its 
use.  Upon  the  principle  adopted  by  the  Com- 
missioner, one  who  has  lent  say  £100  at  ten  per 
cent  for  ten  years,  and  who  has  regularly  been 
paid  £10  a  year  as  interest,  would  not  be  enti- 
tled to  demand  his  £100  at  the  and  of  the  tenth 
jear,  because  he  had  been  paid  that  sum  in  the 
shape  of  interest.  He  has,  thus,  lent  £100  for 
ten  years,  and  is  paid  back  by  instalment  of  £10 
a  year,  getting  no  compensation  whatever  for 
the  use  of  his  money.  Is  this  equity  ?  The 
same  reasoning  holds  if  interest  should  be  paid 
for  30  years,  in  which  time  the  lender  would 
have  received  three  times  the  amount  of  bis 
principal,  as  in  the  case  in  dispute-  The  lender 
is  the  party  wronged  if  he  does  not  get  £10 
every  year,  and  his  principal  when  he  calls  up 
the  bond.  The  defendants  being  absolved  from 
the  instance  on  this  point,  it  is  ordered  that  the 
judgment  of  the  Court  of  Bequests  of  Jaffna  be 
set  aside,  and  the  case  be  decided  on  the  general 
merits  thereof,     [No.  275,  C  E.  Jaffna. 


Sept.  23,  (0.) 
Zieme  v.  Lieme. 
Consider-  Where  the  deed  of  sale  expressed  that  the 

ation  express^    consideration  had  been  received,  MU  that  such 


407 


1845 


expression  was  clear  and  unambiguous.  By 
the  English  Law  of  Evidence,  made  the  law  in 
this  Colony,  the  plaintiff  was  estopped  from 
shewing  that  no  money  was  paid.  Phillips  On 
Ivid,  ch.  7,  sec :  4,  edit.  1843,  p.  351,  vol.  2. 
[No.  164,  C.  E.  Negomlo. 


ed  in  Deed  is 

a  bar   to  tha 

plea  that  no 

money  waa 

paid. 


869, — Ukkoe  MeniJea  v.  Ibrahim  Fulle 

The  Libel  complained  that  the  defendant  had. 
taken  possession  of  the  Eastern  half  of  the 
chena  A.  H.  and  the  Northern  half  of  the  Cbe- 
na  C,  that  the  said  Chenas  are  appurtenances 
of  the  lower  half  of  the  field  W,  which  is  plain- 
tiff's, and  that  plaintiffs  possessed  the  chena  as 

^  such  appurtenances  for  twelve  years.  The  An- 
swer stated  that  the  defendant  did  not  know 
what  precise  part  of  chena  A  plaintiffs  claimed 
but  admitted   possession  of  9  pelas  thereof. 

Judgment.  The  Answer  is  defective.  For 
the  Libel  distinctly  claims  the  Eastern  half  of 
the  chena  A,  and  the  Northern  half  of  the  che- 
na C,  a  description  suflScient  ts  let  the  defend- 
ant know  what  is  claimed.  The  defendant  has 
explicitly  stated  that  he  possessed  nine  pelas 
of  A,  but  he  does  not  deny  that  he  does  not 
possess  the  remainder  of  A,  neither  does  he 
admit  or  deny  whether  he  possesses  the  chena  C, 
nor  whether  the  plaintiffs  have  been  12  years  in 
possession  of  the  Eastern  half  of  A,  and  the 
lower  half  of  C,  all  of  which  ought  to  have  been 

V  done. 

The  plaintiffs  should  therefore  have  shewn 
as  causes  of  demurrer  that  the  defendamt 
neither  admitted  nor  denied  whether  he  bad 
taken  possession  of  the  whole  of  the  Eastern 
half  of  the  chena  A,  and  the  northern  half  of 
the  chena  C,  and  that  he  had  neither  admitted 
nor  denied  that  the  plaintiffs  had  been  in  poss- 
ession of  the  said  portions  of  chena  since  the 
decree.  Leave  therefore  is  given  to  the  defen- 
dant to  amend  his  answer  either  as  above  or 
otherwise,  as  he  may  be  advised.  If  he  does  not 
chose  to  alter  his  answer,  leave  is  given  to  the 


Depiurrer— 

causes  of,  and 

manner  o£ 

pleading. 

Costs. 


1845 


408 


plaintiffs  to  amend  their  demurrer.  IftLe  defen- 
dant ameud  his  answer  leave  is  given  to  the 
plaintiffs  to  withdraw  theirdemurrer  aodfile  such 
other  pleading  aa  they  may  deem  necessary.  Each 
party  to  pay  bis  own  costs.  [No.  16885,  D. 
0.  Kandy. 


Eights  in 
future. 


Oct.  14,  (S.) 
900. — Meera  Lehbe  v.  Walliar. 
Where  it  appeared  that  by  a  judgment  in  a 
case  rights  in  future  would  be  barred,  the 
Supreme  Court  ordered  that  the  case  should 
be  tried  not  in  the  Court  of  Requests,  but  in 
District  Court.*     [No.  462,  C.  E.  Saffna. 


Oct.  31.  (C). 
901. — Nona  Maria  v.  LencJiy   Hamy, 
Judgment  Notice  of  motioo  for   judgment  by  default  is 

by  default.,  insufficient,  from  its  not  expressly  specifying 
that  the  motion  would  be  made  for  default  of 
answer.     [No.  10567,  D.  C.  2iegombo. 


Money  paid 
as  amends  for 
redelivei-y  of 
cattle  no  bar 
to  action  for 


902. — Salyadoe  v,  Franciscoe. 

Where  a  party  is  desirous  to  have  his  cattle 
immediately  re-delivered  he  may  make  amends, 
and  then  bring  an  action  for  trespass  for  taking 
his  cattle,  and  particularly  charge  the  money 
so  paid  by  way  of  amends  as  an  aggravation  of 
the  damage  occasioned  by  the  trespass.  Linden 
vs.  Eoopei,  Cowp.  418.  [No.  10711,  D.  C. 
JVegombo. 


903. — Peris  v.  Fernando, 

The  proceedings  in  this  case  were  remanded 
back  to  the  District  Court  to  refer  the  petition 
to  sue  an  appeal  in  Jbrma  pauperis  to  the  Proc- 
tor in  rotation,  as  described  by  the  43i*d  cl.  of 
the  1st  sect,   of  the  General  Bales  and  Orderi 


*  SeeNell'aO.  B.p.  91. 


409 


1845 


of  the  Ist  October  1833.      "  Such  reference 
ought  to  be  always  made   to  some  Proctor  who 
has  no  interest  in  the  event  of  the  suit,  and  who 
can  act  independently  between  the  parties.     It 
is  a  public  duty  that  he  has  to  perform,  and  one 
which  is.  imposed  on   him  under  the   liules  of 
Court,  to   ensure   the   more  effectual  adminis- 
tration of  Justice  between  the  parties,  as  when- 
ever one  party  is  improperly  allowed  to    sue  in 
forma  pauperie,  he   gains  an   undue   advantage 
over  the  opposite  party,  and  the  litigants  are 
thereby  placed  upon  unequal  terms.     The  Proc- 
tor, therefore,    who  has    been  retained   for  the 
appellant  throughout  the  case,    ought  never  to 
be  called  ou  to  discbarge  this  duty,  inasmuch  as 
his  services   ate   retained   in   favor  of  his   owu 
client,  and  he  may  be   compelled   on  such  a  re- 
ference to  act  against  his  own  client,  whilst  be 
has  also  himself  a  personal   interest  in  carrying 
on  the  appeal,   because,  if  the    decree   of  the 
District  Court  be   thereupon  reversed,   he  may 
recover  his  full  costs  from    the  opposite  party, 
which  he  might    despair  of  getting,    otherwise, 
from  his  client  being  a  pauper,"      [No.  10256, 
D.  C.  NBgombo. 


Kules  as  to 
guidance  in 
reference  to 
pauper  peti- 
tions. 


904. — LeVbe  Marikar  v.  Fernando. 

A  promise  must,  under  the  2 Ist  clause  of  the 
Ord.  JCfo.  7  of  1840  be  in  writing,  and  signed 
by  the  party  making  the  same,  to  charge  him 
with  the  debt,  default,  or  miscarriage  of  another 
Where  the  defendant  had  not  availed  himself  of 
this  objection  under  the  Ordinance  until  the 
appeal,  both  parties  were  decreed  to  bear  their 
own  costs  of  the  suit,  and  the  defendants  Proc- 
tor was  disallowed  his  costs  of  the  hearing  in 
the  District  Court.  [No,  10166,  D.  C.  JSegom- 
bo. 


Undertak- 
ing under 
Ordinance 
7  of  1840, 


In  re  Pauloe  FenseJca. 
905.— Fernanao  v,  Fonseka. 
According  to  the  English   Law  there  cannot 
e  a  joiat  or  mutual  Will,  an  instrument  of 


Joint 
"Wills  not 


1845 


410 


known  to  the 
Law  of  Eng- 
land. 


sucli  a  nature  being  unknown  to  the  Testa* 
mentary  Law  of  that  country.  'Williams  On 
Executors,  p.  9.  But  by  the  Dutch-Roman 
Law  married  persons  are  accustomed  to  make  a 
joint  last  Will,  which  is  called  "a  mutual 
testament,"  and  which,  although  contained  in 
one  paper,  is  held  as  two  distinct  Wills,  where- 
in each  disposes  of  his  or  her  property.  Vander 
Linden,  p.  129.  Van  Leeuwen,  p.  223.  [No. 
10866,  D.  C,  Negombo. 


Judgment 

by  default, 

notice. 


I}ov.  7,   (C.) 

QOQ.—Don  Bastian  v.  Lei/oe  Tamby. 

A  notice  of  motion  for  judgment  by  default  is 

insufficient,  when  it  does  not  specify  the  nature 

of  the  default.     [No.  10932,  D.  C.  Negombo. 


Joint  action 
for  slander 

against 
several  per- 

sonsnot 
maintainable 
for  same 
vords. 


J^ov.  14,  (C.) 
907. — J  asunder e  v.  Mudelihamy. 

A  joint  action  cannot  be  maintained  against 
several  persons  for  speaking  the  same  words, 
because  the  words  of  one  cannot  be  the  words 
of  the  other.     Arch.  Civ.  Plead,  p.  68. 

On  a  motion  for  judgment  by  default  in  any 
action  brought  for  excessive  damages,  the 
Court  ought  also  to  follow  the  4th  rule  of  the 
general  Rules  and  Orders  of  the  I7th  June 
1844.    [No.  6137,  D,  0.  Batnapoora. 


Petition  of 
appeal  must 
be  in  English, 


908 — Bajepakse  v,  BajepaTcse. 

In  this  case  the  appeal  petition  was  rejected, 
it  not  appearing  on  the  face  of  it  to  have  been 
drawn  ann  signed  by  a  Proctor  for  appellant 
pursuant  to  the  Rule  requiring  the  same. 

"  The  Supreme  Court  requires  all  pleadings 
before  it  to  be  in  English,  and  as  it  is  a  mate- 
rial part  of  the  Petition  of  Appeal  that  it 
should  appear  to  have  been  drawn  and  signed 
by  a  Proctor,  the  Court  will  not  resort  to  an 
interpretation  of  any  Singhalese  writing  there- 
on, to  know  if  its  rule  has  been  duly  complied 


411 


1845 


with  in  this  respect.  The  presumption  also  ia 
if  a  Proctor  cannot  even  sign  bis  name  and.  des- 
cription as  Proctor  for  appellant,  in  English 
characters,  he  cannot  have  drawn  the  petition 
filed  in  English,  but  that  it  is  a  translated  copy 
by  another  person,  to  the  correctness  of  which 
the  native  Proctor  cannot  certify  from  his  ap- 
parent ignorance  of  the  English  language.  If 
the  Proctor  signs  in  English  it  implies  that  he 
can  read  it,  and  that  he  has  read  and  adopted 
the  petition,  but.  there  are  no  grounds  to  infer 
bhe  same  from  his  signing  in  Singhalese  cha- 
racters, any  more  than  there  would  be  from  his 
signing  only  with  a  mark.  CapjpeVs  Case,  1 
M.  and  E.  395. 

"  In  some  of  the  I)istrict  Courts  native  Proc- 
tors having  been  admitted  under  the  old  system, 
have  been  continued  and  allowed  to  file  plead- 
ings attested  by  themselves  in  Singhalese  or 
Malabar  chai-acters,  provided  the  same  were 
signed  by  the  parties  themselves  whose  signa- 
tures are  also  sufficient,  as  such  pleadings  are 
not  required  to  be  drawn  and  signed  by  a 
Proctor,  like  Petitions  of  appeal ;  but  when- 
ever any  native  Proctor  files  any  pleading, 
written  motion,  or  other  document  on  behalf 
of  his  client,  which  is  signed  only  by  himself 
as  Proctor,  in  Singhalese  orMalabar  characters, 
the  District  Court  ought  always  to  reject  the 
same,  unless  the  Proctor  can  satisfy  the  Dis- 
trict Court  that  he  can  read,  and  knows  the 
contents  of,  such  papers.  The  District  Court 
will  allow  the  appellant  to  file  a  proper  peti- 
tion  (if  he  be  desirous  to  do  so)  notwithstand- 
ing the  lapse  of  time  ;  and  the  Proctor  signing 
this  Petition  is  disallowed  his  costs  thereof." 
[No.  49,  D.  C;  Ratnapoora. 


A  Proctor 

signing  iu 

English  must 

be  presumed 

able  to  read 

English. 


Nov.  18,  (C.) 
9Q9,—Falujpa  v.  Fernando. 
The  Supreme  .  Court  will  not  receive  a  Peti- 
tion of  appeal  as  duly  drawn  and  signed   by  a 
Proctor,  in  conformity  with  the  rule  requiring 


1845 


Tbe  several 

Bales   of 

Court  form 

parts  of  a 

whole  system 

and  must  be 

readtogether. 


Where  con- 
tract of  ten- 
ancy is  prov- 
able  evi- 
dence of  title 
not  Tec[uired. 


Petition  of 
Appeal :  ir- 
regularity. , 


412 

the  same,  unless  the  Proctor  subscribe  his  name 
and  description  in  Eaglish.  If  the  Proctor  is 
unable  to  do  so,  and  sign  in  Singhalese  or  Ma- 
labar characters,  it  is  prima  facio  evidence  that 
he  has  not  drawn  the  petition,  and  cannot  cer- 
tify to  the  correctness  of  it  as  a  translated 
copy,     [No.  5157,  D,  C.  Ratnajpoora. 

910. — Zoyza  v.  Tabrew. 
The  Supreme  Court  does  not  think  that  the 
latter  part  of  the  38th  clause  of  sect.  1  of  the 
Rules  and  Orders  cannot  apply  to  any  of  the 
subsequent  Rules  of  the  2nd  July  1842.  The 
subsequent  Rules  are  engrafted  upon  the  others 
and  form  part  of  a  whole  system,  to  beconstrued 
together  ;  just  as  several  acts  of  Parliament 
upon  the  same  subject  are  to  be  taken  togthere 
as  forming  one  system,  and  as  interpreting  and 
enforcing  each  other.  3,  Harrison's  Digest,  tit. 
Statute  1—6.'  [No,  33558,  D.  G.Colombo. 

911. — IHeris  V.  Jlopman. 

Where  an  actual  contract  of  tenancy  can  be 
proved,  no  proof  of  title  is  requisite,  it  being  an 
established  rule  that  a  tenant  cannot  dispute 
his  Landlord's  Title.  Cook  v.  Loxley,  5  /.  R.  5. 
Hudson  v.  Sharpe,  10  East,  352.  [No.  40286, 
D,  C.  Colombo. 

Decemher  5,  (C.) 

912. — Saihoe  Marikar  t.  Mir  a  Lebhe. 
"Where  a  Petition  of  Appeal  vpas  not  taken 
dovrn  by  the  Secretary  of  the  District  Court 
"  from  the  mouth  of  the  party,"  in  the  manner 
prescribed  by  the  2nd  clause  of  the  general 
Rules  of  the  I2th  December  1843,  the  Supreme 
Court  rejected  the  Appeal  for  irregularity. 
[No.  12411,  D.  C.  Chilaw  andPvMam. 


Bee.  16,  (0.  C.  S.) 
913. — Tambapulle  v.  Sanawiere. 

Opposition  was  made  to  Provisional  Judg- 
ment being  granted  in  this  case,  on  the  follow- 
ing grounds : — 


418  1815 

1.  TLat  tbe  Libel  and  Summons  were  not 
so  framed,  as  to  entitle  the  plaintiff  to  Fro- 
visionnl  Judgment. 

2.  Tiiat  the  account  rendered  and  signed 
by  the  defendant  was  not  a  liquid  instrument — 
figures  were  erased  and  others  substituted  : 
iu  which  case  provision  ought  not  to  have  been 
granted.  Wassemar,  Jud.  Fract,  p.  129,  Sande, 
Book  1.   tit.  8.  defin  3.  Mascardus,  Concl.  1261 

3.  That  the  document  was  an  obligation, 
and  could  not  have  been  received  in  evidence, 
not  being  duly  .stamped  ;  and  that  if  no  obliga- 
tion provision  could  not  be  granted  on  it. 

4.  That  the  large  item  in  the  account  (as 
asserted  in  the  affidavit  of  a  third  party)  which 
made  up  the  whole  balance  against  the  defendant, 
had  been  settled  by  another  adjustment  or 
agreement,  and  should  not  have  figured  in  the 
account  at  all. 

Judgment.  1.  The  Libel  states  in  substance 
that  the  action  arises  upon  promises  of  the  de- 
fendant unperformed,  and  narrates  that  the 
defendant  on  a  certain  day  accounted  with  the 
plaintiff'  for  moneys  then  due  by  him  to  the 
plaintiff ;  that  a  balance  of  £259.  12.  was  found 
due,  which  the  defendant  promised  to  pay  on 
request ;  that  the  defendant  has  not  paid 
though  requested  ;  and  prays  condemnation  in 
the  sum.  The  Libel  than  calls  on  the  defen- 
dant to  confess  or  deny  his  signature  "  to  the 
account  hereunto  annexed,  marked  Lr.  A,  and 
to  show  cause  why  he  should  not  be  condemned 
-provisionally  to  pay  to  the  plaintiff  the  said 
Bum  of  =8259.  12.  with  legal  interest  thereon 
from  the  institution  of  this  suit  until  payment 
in  full."  The  Summons  requires  the  defendant 
to  appear  and  answer  to  the  claim  of  the  plain- 
tiff for  the  sum  of  £259.  12.  due  upon  an 
account  dated  10th  August  1842.  The  answer 
makes  no  objection  to  the  Libel  as  being  in- 
formal, or  as  not  stating  the  cause  of  action 
with  sufficient  precision ;  nor  does  it  object 
that  the  Summons  is  at  variance  with  the 
Libel  as  regards  the  cause    of    action  ;  but 


1845 


414 


Conrts  may 
reject  sur- 
plusage in  a 
•Libel. 


pleads  that  the  first  item  in  the  account  due  by 
the  defendant  was  included  in  another  account, 
made  by  the  plaintiff,  defendant,  and  othei 
parties,  their  partners,  and  which  he,  the  defen- 
dant,  has  settled,  and  that  it  was  by  mistake 
included  in  the  account  between  the  plaintiff 
and  the  defendant.  The  plaintiff  in  his  Eepli- 
cntion  denies  the  Auswer,  The  defendant 
admits  his  handwriting,  and  puts  in  an  affidavit 
of  a  third  party  supporting  his  Answer.  The 
Kule  of  Court  which  relates  to  the  form  of 
Libels,  simply  requires  that  the  Libel  shall  state 
the  cause  of  action  or  complaint,  as  shortly  as 
the  nature  of  the  case  will  admit,  and  the  relief 
or  remedy  which  the  plaintiff  seeks.  Certainly 
the  plaintiff  has  not  strictly  complied  with  the 
rule.  He  has  not  contented  himself  with  stat« 
ing  that  the  defendant  was  indebted  to  him, 
accounted  with  him,  and  admitted  a  balance, 
and  prayed  that  he,  the  defendant,  might  be 
condemned  to  pay  the  same  j  but  has  unneces- 
sarily stated  that  the  defendant  promised  to  pay 
the  balance,  and  has  staled  such  promise  to  be 
his  cause  of  action.  At  the  same  time  the  de- 
fendant may  have  made  such  promise,  and  snob 
promise  is,  if  proved,  only  additional  evidence 
of  the  defendant's  liability  upon  a  prior  obli- 
gation. The  Court  will  not  turn  a  plaintiff 
found  because  his  pleader  uses  words  in  the 
commencement  of  his  Libel  which  have  a  tech- 
nical meaning  in  English  pleading,  but  which 
convey  no  precise  meaning  to  any  person  un> 
acquainted  with  that  mode  of  pleading.  The 
Court  will  reject  as  surplusage  all  that  is  said 
in  the  Libel  which  has  an  aspect  towards  the 
English  action  of  assumpsit,  and  let  the  Libel 
stand  upon  the  liability  of  the  defendant  to  pay 
that  which  was  found  and  admitted  to  be  due 
fjom  him  on  an  account  taken.  And  iu  this 
view  of  the  case  no  objection  can  be  made  to 
the  Summons  which  agrees  with  the  essential 
part  of  the  Libel.  The  Court  comes  to  this 
conclusion  more  readily,  as  the  Answer  shows 
that  the  confusion  in  the  Libel  has  wrought 


415 


1815 


no  injury  to  the  defendant  in  any  way. 
As  to  tbat  part  of  the  Libel  which  prays  for, 
Provisional  condemnatioD,  the  Court  is  of 
opinion  tbat  the  "  said  sum  of  £259.  12s." 
must  be  taken  to  relate  to  that  very  sum  Bljen- 
tioned  in  the  former  part  of  the  Libel  which 
upon  taking  the  account  was  found  to  be  due 
from  the  defendant  to  tlie  plaintiff,  and  that  the 
account  Lr,  A.  is  to  be  one  and  the  same  ac- 
counting, as  the  defendant  does  not  deny  in  his 
Answer  that  it  is  so.  The  Court,  therefore, 
holds  that  the  first  objection  is  not  valid, 

2.  The  Court  on  comparing  all  the  autho- 
rities which  treat  of  this  point,  comes  to  the 
conclusion  that  a  vitium  or  defect,  whether 
blot,  tearing  of  the  paper,  erasure,  interlinea- 
tion or  the  like,  must  be  of  considerable  conse- 
quence, and  impress  the  mind  of  the  Judge 
with  a  suspicion  with  reference  to  the  impor- 
tant parts  of  the  document.  In  the  account  in 
question  there  are  two  erasures,  neither  of  which 
occur  in  the  debit  side  of  the  account  embra- 
cing the  items  which  express  the  causes  of  the 
debit;  nor  in  the  credit  side  of  the  account  con- 
taining the  items  of  discharge,  but  a  palpable 
error  calculi  had  been  made  in  the  summing  up 
of  the  credit  side,  aud  which  necessarily  occa- 
sioned a  corresponding  error  in  the  balance. 
These  two  errors  were  corrected,  the  figures, 
which  correct  addition  and  subtraction  re- 
quired, being  written  over  the  erroneous  ones. 
Is  this  a  defect  of  great  consequence  ?  Does  it 
impress5  t^»  ™i°^  °^  ^^^  Judge  that  the  De- 
fendant is  called  upon  to  pay  anything  more 
than  he  admitted  to  be  due  ?  Does  it  lay  the 
plaintiff  under  any  imputation  of  fraud  ?  Will 
it  subserve  the  ends  of  Equity  (on  which  the 
whole  system  ot  Provisional  Judgment  is  based) 
to  turn  the  plaintiff  round  lor  miscomputatiou 
which  can  injure  no  one  ?  The  Court  thinks 
not,  and  that  the  error  is  notmaterial.  The  Court 
is  further  of  opinion  Ijhat  the  document  contains 
the  causk  debiti,  as  expressed  in  every  item 
of  tbe  debit   side  of   the  account.    It  may  be 


Vitium  or  de- 
fect in  a 
document 

must  be  great 
and  induce 
suspicion. 


Whole  sys- 
tem of  Provi 
sional  Judg- 
ments is 
based  on 
Equity, 


1845 


416 


Provision 
may  be  grant- 
ed on  any 
instrument 
signed  by  the 
debtor. 


further  said  that  the  writing  is  not  in  the  form 
and  terms  commonly  employed  in  an  oliliga- 
tory  instrument,  and  may  therefore  have  been 
made  as  a  memorandum  for  private  use  only, 
but,  as  it  is  produced  by  the  creditor  therein,  it 
must  be  presumed  to  have  been  intended  to 
have  been  delivered  ;  and  moreover,  by  the  An- 
swer it  is  admitted  to  be  an  account  stated  be- 
tween the  plaintiff  and  the  defendant. 

3.  The  Court  is  of  opinion  that  the  docu- 
ment in  question  cannot  be  called  an  obligation, 
it  is  an  admission  of  what  is  due  by  the  debtor 
at  a  certain  date,  upon  a  former  obligation  or 
obligations  existing  between  himself  and  his 
creditor.  The  items  in  the  accounts  show  a 
diversity  of  obligations :  some  miiy  have  been 
written  contracts,  others  verbal  agreements. 
But  a  mutual  obligation  lay  on  both  parties  to 
perform  these  obligations,  totally  independent 
of  this  documenf,  which  was  not  meant  to  ab- 
rogate them,  and  come  in  their  place  ;  but  is 
merely  an  admission  by  the  defendant  that,  at 
the  date,  the  parties  -  stood  in  such  a  position 
as  to  debit  and  credit  upon  their  respective  ob- 
ligations. There  is  no  word  in  the  Stamp  Act 
requiring  a  stamp  on  an  account  stated,  uor  on 
any  document  similar  to  the  present.*  This  ac- 
count therefore  does  not  require  a  stamp,  and 
so  is  admissible  evidence.  But  it  is  said  a  pro- 
visional claim  can  only  be  founded  on  an  obli- 
gation, or  on  a  Merchant's  accounts.  The  text 
books  hold  no  such  doctrine,  unless  where,  some- 
times, the  word  'obligation'  is  soFelyjused  as  being 
the  class  on  which  provisions  are  most  usually 
granted ;  but  it  is  clear  that  any  other  instru- 
ment signed  by  the  debtor  is  sufficient.  The 
appendix  to  the  Law  Dictionary  expressly  uses 
the  words — "  an  acknowledgment  of  the  party." 
A  receipt  signed  by  the  creditor  is  sufficient  to 
prevent  provision.  A  receipt  is  an  admission  of 
money  paid.  Surely  an  admission  of  money 
due  should  fall  under  the  same  rule. 

*  Nor  is  there  in  the  present  Stamp  Ordinance, 
(No.  11  of  1861.)    Ed. 


417  1845 

4.  The  writers  on  the  Roman  Dutch-Law 
are  much  divided  on  the  admissibility  of  such 
evidence,  and  amongst  those  against  it  is  Voet. 
The  weight  of  authorities  seem  nearly  equally 
balanced.  Perhaps  the  sounder  principle  is  to 
permit  no  other  species  of  evidence  in  opposi- 
tion to  a  Provisional  Judgment,  which  is  not 
allowed  in  support  of  it ;  and,  if  we  consider 
the  facility  with  which  afiSdavits  can  be  procu- 
red in  this  Island,  in  support  of  any  falsehood 
however  gross,  expediency  demands  the  rejec- 
tion of  parol  testimony;  and  the  Court,  feeling 
itself  at  liberty  under  the  authorities  to  reject 
a£B.davits  altogether,  will  do  so  at  least  when 
not  more  conclusive,  and  supported  by  stronger 
concurrent  circumstances  which  carry  a  con- 
victon  of  their  truth  to  the  mind,  than  occurs 
in  the  present  instance.  [No.  36701,  D.  C. 
Colombo, 


184.5 


418 


Where  a 
Bond  was 
granted  to 
A.  who  ad- 
mitted at  the 
trial  that  the 
money  was 
due  to  him 
and  his  part- 
ners, held 
that  he  alone 
could  sue. 


914— Dec.  18,  (O.  C,  S.) 

Motosamy    Chetty   and    anotliev,    attorneys   of 
Peria  Carpen. 

V. 

Mohamedo  Lebbe. 

The  plaiutiffa  ia  this  case  brought  their 
action  as  attorneys  oi  Peria,  Carpen  Chetty,  to 
recover  the  balance  unpaid  ou  a  Bond  granted 
by  the  defendant  to  Feria  Carpen  Chetty,  The 
defendant  pleaded  the  general  issue.  On  the 
examinatiou  oi Peria  Carpen  Chetty  (allowed  hy 
the  rule  of  Court)  he  admitted  that  he  was  a 
partner  with  two  others,  and  that  the  money 
due  on  the  Bond  belonged  to  him  and  his  other 
pai;tners.  The  defendant's  counsel  moved 
that  the  plaintiff  be  nonsuited,^- JVr«<,  because 
the  plaintiff's  had  only  a  Power  of  Attorney 
faom  Peria  Carpen  Chetty,  and  not  also  from  the 
other  partners.  Secondly  because  the  action 
should  have  been  brought  by  Peria  Carpen 
Oe%  jointly  with  his  two  partners.  The  Dis- 
trict Court  refused  to  nonsuit  the  plaintiff?, 
and  after  hearing  the  case  on  its  merits  gave 
judgment  for  plaintiff.  The  defendant  appealed 
on  the  grounds  abovementioued,  aud  the  Su- 
preme Court  affirmed  the  judgment,  subject  to 
the  opinion  of  the  Court  sitting  ia  general 
Sessions,  whether  the  action  were  rightly  laid. 
Voet,  lib.  17,  tit.  2,  sect.  16,  and  herewith  agrees 
the  Law  of  England.  4  B.and  C.  664.  10  B.  and 
C.  2o  and  4  B.  and  A.  437,  in  which  case  the 
Court  said,  "  the  action  may  be  maintained 
either  in  the  name  of  ihe  person  with  whom  the , 
contract  was  actually  made,  or  in  the  name  of 
the  parties  really  interested.  Judgment  Affirmed, 
[No.  12496,  D.  C.  Chilaio. 


915. — Meera  Pulle  v.  Odomen  Pulle, 

The  question  in  this  case  was  whether  the  old 
writing  tendered  in  evidence  must  be  stamped, 
as  coming  under  description  of  instruments 
specified  in  the  2nd  cl,  of  the  2nd  section  of  the 
Ordinance  No.  6,  of  1836,   or  whether  it  sdoe 


419 


1845 


net;  require  a  stamp  aa  being  included  in  the 
e-iemptions  in  table  C.  under  the  5th  cl.  of  the 
2nd  section.  "  The  Ordinance  is  closely  taken 
from  the  English  Stamp  Act.  55  Geo.  iii.  cb. 
184,  and  the  technical  terms  used  in  that  act, 
and  proper  to  the  English  Law,  are  used.  The 
Court  must,  therefore,  anderstand  and  construe 
these  terms  as  they  are  understood  and  constru* 
edin  England.  And  the  Courtis  of  opinion 
tbat  the  deed  would  be  held  by  the  English 
Law,  not  as  purporting  to  transfer  or  make  over 
the  property  therein  referred  to,  aa  it  wants  the 
technical  words  of  transfer,  and  would  be  deemed 
to  be  a  contract  or  agreement ;  and,  as  in  this 
case,  being  for  the  sale  of  cattle,  would  by  the 
same  law  fall  under  the  first  exemption  in  table 
G.  It  is  therefore  decreed  tbat  the  Judgment  of 
the  Court  below  be  set  aside,  and  that  the  ola  ba 
admitted  in  evidence."  [No.  9855,  C.  E.  Bat- 
ticaloa. 


Dee.  23,  (C.) 
916. — Abeyewardene  v.  Madoma. 
Where  plaintiffs  bond  gives  him  a  mortgage 
of  a  share  of  a  field  in  lieu  of  interest,  and  the 
plaintiff  has,  accordingly,  thereunder  possessed 
sach  share  ever  since,  held,  that  the  bond  is  not 
prescribed,  and  the  plaintiff  may,  notwithstand- 
iog  the  lapse  of  time,  recover  thereon  in  a  suit 
in  the  District  Court,  if  he  be  advised  to  insti- 
tute the  same.  [No,  526,  C  B.  Qalle.  (See 
Morgan's  Digest,  p.  2,  and  Beling's  Digest, 
p. 281,  and  Appendix  C.) 

Bee.  24,  (O.  C.  S.) 

917 — Mwlkadoowawe  v.  Banff  Ettena. 

In  this  case  A.  claimed  a  chena  land  situate 
within  the  Kandyau  Provinces  from  B.  The 
District  Court  non-suited  the  plaintiff  who  ad- 
mitted tbat  he  neither  held  Saunas,  nor  grant  of 
any  kind,  and  that  no  taxes  or  services  had  been 
paid  or  rendered  for  the  same,  conceiving  that  he 
was  bound  so  to  do  under  the  6th  cl.  of  the  Ord. 
No.  12  of  184iO. 


Where  an  Or- 
dinance is  mo- 
delled after 
an  English 
Act,  the  Court 
must  construe 
the  terms  as 
they  are  con- 
trued  in  Eng- 
land. 


Contract  of 

AnUchraejs. 

Mortgagee 

may  recover 

notwith- 
standing plea 
of  prascrip-  ' 
tion. 


1845 


420 


In  Ord :  12  of 

1840.  the 
words  "  Pri. 

Tate  party- 
claiming 
against  the 
Crown"  refer 
?nly  to  suits 
in  which  the 

Crown  is  a 
party.   C.  J. 


The  Court  is  of  opinion  that  the  words 
in  that  clause  "  All  chenas  &c.  in  the  Kan- 
dyan  Provinces  shall  be  deemed  to  belong  to 
the  Crown,  and  not  to  be  the  property  of  any 
private  person  claiming  the  same  against  t%e 
Crowni"  refer  only  to  suits  in  which  the  Crown 
is  a  party  j  and  such  not  being  the  case  in  the 
present  action,  the  judgment  must  be  set 
aside,  and  the  case  remanded  to  the  District 
Court  to  be  proceeded  with. 

"  The  Chief  Justice  doubting  however, 
because,  although  the  above  reading  is  the 
most  plain  and  obvious  meaning  of  the  words 
in  question,  still  they  will  bear  another  more 
in  accordance  with  the  other  parts  of  the  6th 
clause,  viz :  that  "  claiming  the  same  against 
the  Crown"  need  not  be  confined  to  suits  in 
which  the  Crown  is  a  party,  inasmuch  as  all 
lands  in  the  Kandyan  Provinces  belonged  to 
the  King,  unless  a  grant  or  services  were  pro- 
ved ,  and,  therefore,  in  all  cases  there  must  be 
virtual  claim  against  the  Crown,  the  original 
proprietor  of  all  lands.  And  because,  if  the 
words  are  not  taken  in  this  last  acceptation, 
chena  land  in  the  Maritime  Provinces  are  ge- 
nerally in  all  suits,  at  all  times,  in  all  places,  to 
be  presumed  the  property  of  the  Crown,  and, 
in  the  Kandyan  Provinces,  are  to  be  deemed  to 
belong  to  the  Crown  only  in  a  suit  between  the 
Crown  and  a  private  party  which  it  can  hardly 
be  supposed  was  intended  by  the  Legislature ; 
and  further  in  referenceto  the  11th  section,  it 
might  happen  that,  a  chena  land  in  the  Kandyan 
Provinces,  might,,  in  a  suit  between  two  private 
parties,  be  decided  upon  a  ten  years  prescriptive 
title  to  belong"  to  one  of  them,  "and  a  Headman 
present  in  Court,  and  who  heard  evidence  of  an 
encroachment,  would  be  liable  to  a  fine,  if  ho 
did  not  inform  the  Government  Agent  of  such 
encroachment.  In  all  probability  the  words 
"  and  not  to  be  the  property  of  any  private  per- 
son claiming  the  same  against  the  Crown"  have 
crept  into  the  Oidiaauceper   incuriam.     If  we 


421 


1845. 


reject  tbem  tie  whole  of  the  parts  of  the  6th 
etauss  are  brought  into  accordance  with  each 
other. 

.The  judgment  of  the  Court  below  was  set 
aside,  and  the  case  remanded  to  the  District 
Court  to  be  duly  proceeded  with.  [No,  10277, 
D.  C.  Kornegalle. 

February  4,  1846,  (S,) 
Q\S—Wedda  v.  Balea, 

The  local  law  applicable  to  this  cgse  is  con- 
tained in  the  following  words  of  Mr.  Sawer  in 
his  Kanflyau  Laws.  p.  26. 

"  A  regular  adoption  must  be  publicly  decla- 
red and  acknowledged,  and  it  must  have  been 
declared  and  generally  understood  that  such 
child  was  to  be  an  heir  of  the  adopting  parent's 
estate. 

"  The  adopted  child  must  be  of  the  same 
caste  as  the  adopting  parent,  otherwise  the 
adopted  child  carinot  inherit  the  hereditary 
property  of  the  parent. 

"  A  child  being  reared  in  a  family,  even  if  a 
near  relative,  is  not,  to  be  construed  into  a 
regular  adoption,  without  its  having  been 
openly  avowed  and  clearly  understood  that  the 
child  was  adopted  on  purpose  to  inherit  the 
property.  [No.  3569,  D.  C.  Hatnapoora.  (See 
ante  14th  January  1843.) 


18 '6. 


Kandyan  Law 
of  Adoption. 


Adopting  pa- 
rent and 
adopted  child 
must  be  of  the 
same  caste. 
Adoption 
must  be 
openly  avow- 
ed. 


July  6,  (0.  S.  T.) 

The  Hon'ble  Wiliiam  Ogle  Cabb  wes 
sworn  in  as  Acting  Chief  Justice. 

The  Hon'ble  James  Stake  was  sworn  in 
as  Acting  Senior  Pmsne  Justice. 

The  Hon'ble  Chbistophee  Temple  was 
sworn    in    as   Acting   Junior  Puisne  Justice. 


August,  14,  (S.). 
919. —  Ccmdappa  v.   Vanderstraaten.. 

The   Supreme   Court  was   of  opinion  in  this  pj-octors  must 

case  that  there  wdS,  on  the  part  of  the  defend-  bestow  pro pei- 


1846 


care  and  deli- 

gence  in  their 

elients'  busi- 

aees. 


Lotteries 

illegal  if  pro- 

nibited. 


Notice  of  en» 
try  of  a  case 
in  Trial  Boll 
must  be  given 
to  the  oppo' 
site  party. 


A  Deed  pro- 
perly  stamp- 


422 

ant,  a  culpable  want  of  care  and  diligence  in 
hscertalQiug  the  real  facts  of  the  case,  in  which 
be  was  employed  by  the  plaintiff,  and  in  pre* 
paring  the  evidence,  pleadings,  and  appeal, 

"It  is  of  the  greatest  consequence  to  ths 
character  of  the  profession,  the  safety  of  the 
parties,  and  the  due  administration  of  justice  to 
require  of  and  from  all  Proctors,  proper  care 
in  the  business  entrusted  to  them  by  their 
clients,  and  more  especially  in  cases  where  the 
clients  are  ignorant  and  illiterate  ;  and  to  afferd 
full  redress  to  injured  parties,  where  any  Proc- 
tor is  deficient  in  requisite  care.  In  this  res- 
pect, however,  this  is  the  first  case  of  the  kind 
here,  and  the  damages  are  modified."  [fTo. 
34826,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

Aug.  15,  (S.) 

920.— Dow  Philip  v.  Silva. 

Where  money  was  paid  in  a  lottery  transac- 
tion, held,  that  lotteries  and  gaming  in  gene- 
ral, not  being  against  morals  or  the  public 
peace,  are  not  mala  in  se,  but  illegal  only  if 
prohibited  ;  and  that,  as  no  such  prohibitions 
existed  at  the  time,*  the  money  is  recoverable 
at  Law.    [No.  40609,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

921.— Don  Jtian  v.  Fernando. 

Notice  of  the  entry  of  a  case  in  the  trial-roll 
must  be  given  to  the  opposite  party,  as  re- 
quired by  the  General  Bules  and  Orders  of  8th 
July  1842.     [No.  29419,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

Aug.  19,  (S.; 
Q22.'— Thompson  v.  Staples. 
If  a   deed   or  instrument   subject   to  stamp 
duty  bears  the  proper  stamp,  it   is   admissible 

*  But  see  Ordinance  No.  8  of  1844  {War  the  Swppres- 
of  Lotteries)  where  lotteries  are  declared  to  be  "  com- 
mon nuisances  and  against  law"  "  Cheetoo"  playing, 
has  been  declared  as  coming  under  this  Ordinance- 
See  No.  18859  (C.  R.  Colombo  Judgment  per  C 
H.  de  B»ia,m]  Affirmed.  (Sea  Appendix)  Bo, 


1846 


notwithatandiug  its  not  having  been  stamped 
at  the  time  of  execution,  nor  Jodged  within  three 
days  with  the  GoTernment  Agent,  in  order  to 
its  being  stamped  ;  there  being,  aa  the  Court 
thought,  no  prohibition,  either  direct  or  by  con- 
struction, excluding  deeds  or  iastruments  on 
these  grounds.     [No.  41469,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

Nov.  3,  (S.) 

923. — Mohanderameley  Funehy  v.  Demiawa 

'H.amy, 

The  rule  'pendente  lite  nihil  innovefur  has  not 
the  effect  of  rendering  deeds  executed  void,  but 
only  of  retaining  the  rights  of  parties  in  the 
same  situation  as  they  previously  were.  [No. 
4390,  D.  C.  Batmpoora. 


ed  admissible 
altho'  it  was 
not  stamped 
at  the  time 
of  the  execu- 
tion. 


Interpreta- 
tion of  Rule, 

pendente  lite 
nihilinnovetur. 


March  20th  (C.) 

924. — Bama  Ay  a  v.  Rama  Pulle. 
Affirmed  :—"  The  Froctor  signing  the  ap- 
peal is  disallowed  his  costs  thereof,  as  thi^  Court 
considers  it  vexatious,  as  it  states  no  ground  for 
appeal,  excepting  the  illness  of  the  Proctor,  and 
the  defendant's  witnesses  not  having  been  heard; 
but  the  defendant's  advocate  was  present,  and 
ought  to  have  examined  the  witnesses  or  shewn 
cause  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  District  Court 
for  a  postmonement,  and  for  which  he  was 
allowed  two  consecutive  days."  [No.  95,  D.  C. 
Colombo  (see  Murray,  p.  77.) 

925. — Canapady  Ayer  v.  Seyedoo  Oemma  and 
others, 

,  Action  on  a  Bond  dated  30th  March  1846 
granted  to  plaintifi  by  husband,  (since  deceased,) 
of  the  1st  defendani,  payable  on  the  30th  Sep" 
tember  1846,  with  interest.  Obligor  died  on 
the  7th  April  ;  averment  that  1st  defendant 
took  possession  of  all  his  property,  and  thus 
rendered  herself  liable  for  bis  debts.  Action 
instituted  27th  June  1846.     Demurrer  by  third 


1847 


Vexations 
Appeal. 
Proctor  dis- 
allowed his 


1.  Action 
not  maintain- 
able against 
widow  of  de- 
ceased  ob- 
ligor, until 
the  period  for 

payment,  _ 
stipulated  in 


1847 


42^ 


the  Bond  has 
expired. 
2.  A  cauti- 
onary obliga- 
tion is  not 
binding  un- 
less it  be  in 
writing  and 
signed  by  the 
obligor,  or  by 
a  person    au- 
thorized by 
him.   {Ord.  7. 
of  1840  cl.  21.; 


?uits  by 
native  Tra- 
ders :  most 
clear  and  un- 
eSoeptionable 
evidence  re- 
quisite, in 
proof  of  p&.rol 
admissibns 
and  promises 
to  pay. 


defendant,  on  the  ground,  (inter  alia)  that 
Bond  was  put  in  suit  before  it  was  due, 

D.  J.  held  demurrer  good,  arid  on  the  11th 
Sept.  1846,  nonsuited  the  plaintiff. 

March  20,  1847.— In  appEAt,  (per  Carr  A. 
C.  J.)  "  affirmed  with  costs— the  action  hav- 
ing been  Brought  before  the  money  was  repay- 
able under  the  Bond  ;  the  defendants  could 
not  under  the  Ordinance  7,  of  1840,  cl.  12.  be 
charged  for  the  debt  default  or  miscarriage  of 
another,  except  by  some  promise  or  agreement 
in  writing  signed  by  them,  or  by  some  person 
thereto  lawfully  authorized  by  them,  which  is 
not  averred."  [No.  2298  D-  C.  Colombo  (See 
Murirai/s  Beports  p,  78.) 

926.-   Gar  does  v.  Annccvy. 

"  The  Supreme  Court  has  always  held,  in 
suits.by  native  traders,  wbere  they  have  omitted 
to  take  recefpts  on  delivery  ofth'e  godds,  or  to 
require  their  debtors  to  sign  the  balance  of  the 
accouat,  but  rest  their  demand  solely  on  proof 
of  the  debtor's  parol  admission  and  promise  to 
pay  the  balance  stated  to  be  due,  that  the  most 
clear  and  unexceptionable  evidence  thereof  must 
be  adduced,  or  otherwise  this  Court  will  non- 
suit the  plaintiff.  [No.  10618,  D.  C.  Colombo. 
(See  Murray's  Beports,  p.  79.) 


Murcli  23,  (0.) 
927. — Eatnapalle  V.  Seneioaratne. 

A  document    tendered    in   evidence   by  the 
documents      plaint'ff  ough*  "o*  to  be  rejectod,  1st,  because  it 
tendered  in      was  not  referred  to' in  the  pleadings, — the   rule 
iBvidenoe.       requiring   all   documents,    referred    to    in  the 
pleadings,  or  copies  thereof,  to  be  filed  there- 
with, not  extehdmg  to  or  excluding  it;  2ndly  be- 
cause the  document  being  deposited  in  a  public 
registry,  it  might   be   safely  received    without 
any  suspicion   attaching  to   itfrcJiu  improper 
custody  or  detention.  [No.  189 1'8,  D,  C.  Kmdy. 


•425 


1847 


928. — Collier  v.  Teagappa  Chetty. 

[See  appendix  for  full  report— (No.  38134, 
D.  C.  Colombo.)  1 


929. — Zivera  (widow)  v.  Pieris. 

[See  appendix  for  full  report— (No.  11176  D* 

C.  Negombo.)  ] 

■    March  25.  (6.) 

930. — Fernmfido.  v.  Fonseha. 
Where  defendants,  father  and  sod,  entered 
into  a  joint  contract,  and  the  first  defendant 
put  in  an  answer  in  the  name  of  both,  though 
signed  only  by  himself,  and  on  this  apparently 
joint,  but  defective,  answer,  issue  was  joined,  and 
the  case  proceeded  to  trial,  the  Supreme  Court  re- 
manded the  case  back  for  the  second  defendant 
to  enter  appearance,  and  for  an  amended  answer 
to  be  put  in  by  the  defendants,  with  their  lisis 
of  witnesses,  and  for  the  Court  to  decide  the 
case  de  novo.  "  The  Plaintiff  is  in  error  [in 
joining  issue]  but  his  mistake  has  been  pcca- 
sioned  by  the  wrong  act,  of  the  opposite  party, 
and  costs  are  therefore   divided.     [No.  38,170, 

D.  C.  Colombo,  (See  Murray's  Rep.  p.  81.) 


931. — Fernando  v,  ^FaZ^er  (Deputy  Fisca  ])and 
another. 
Action  to  recover  from  defendants  the  value 
of  certain  timber  alleged  to  have  been  property 
of  plaintiff,  which  was  sold  by  defendants  undep 
a  writ  of  execution  against  a  third  party.  The 
defendants  were  the  Deputy  Fiscal  of  the  Dis- 
trict and  a  subordinate  officer  who  conducted 
the  sale.  Averment,  that  plaintiff  claimed 
timber,  opposed  the  sale,  and  offered  "  sufficient 
securities,"  but  defendants  sold  the  timber 
notwithstanding  Defendants,  traversing  aver- 
ments, pleaded  that  they  seized  the  timber  on  its 
beinff  pointed  out  as  the  property  of  the  execution 
debtor.  At  the  trial  the  plaintiff  admitted  that 
the  seizure  was  made  on  the  timber  being  poin- 


One  party,  a, 
defendant, 
cannot  file 
pleadings 
signed  only 
by  himself, 
for  his  co-de- 
fendant,  and 
himself. 


(1.)    A. 

iy  Fiscal,  not 

being  the  im- 
mediate 
wrong-doer, 

is  not  respon- 
sible for  the 
acts  of  his 
subordinate 

Fiscal  OfScer. 

(2.)AFiscal's 

OfSoer  seizing 

property  in 

execution 

though  point- 
ed   out  by 

the  creditor. 


1847. 


426 


may  yet  be 
liable  in  da- 
mages for 
malice,  irre- 
gularity of 
proceeding, 
or  abuse  of 
authority. 
(Ord  No.  1, 
of  1839,  CI. 
12.) 


ted  out  as  tlie  property  of  the  exeeutioa  debtor, 
la  the  Court  below  the  actioa  was  dismis><ed 
as  against  the  1st  defendant  because  he  was  not 
an  immediate  wrong-doer,  and  as  against  the 
2ad  defendant  because  plaintiff  admitted  that 
the  seizure  was  made  on  the  execution-creditor 
pointing  out  the  property. 

In  Appeal  :  Affirmed  s^s  to  dismissal  regard- 
ing the  first  defendant  ;  bat  set  aside  with  costs 
as  regards  the  second  defendant,  against  whom 
the  D.  C.  ought  to  proceed  to  hear  evidence, 
and  give  judgment  de  novo.  "  The  admission 
of  the  plaintiff  that  the  timber  in  question  was 
seized  by  the  defendant  on  its  being  pointed  out 
to  him  by  the  party  by  whom  the  writ  of  execu- 
tion was  issued  will  not  discharge  the  liability 
of  the  second  defendant,  against  whom  the 
plaintiff  may  still  prove  malice  or  irregularity 
of  proceeding  and  abuse  of  authority,  in  re- 
fusing to  receive  from  plaintiff  his  statement  in 
writing  of  his  claim,  and  sufficient  security,  or 
not  staying  seizure  or  sale  thereon."  [iJ.  G. 
Colombo  No.  38370.  (^-'ee  Murray,  p  82  for  full 
report.) 


Action  main- 
tainable for 
deposit,  with- 
out tendering 
conveyance, 
on  a  bad  title 
being  pro- 
duced. 


Decree, 
granting  re- 
dress under 


932.— Don  Philip  v.  Ddbrera. 
"  Tlie  plaintiff  was  entitled  to  maintain  an 
action  for  the  deposit  on  a  bad  title  being  pro. 
duced,  withouttendering  a  Conveyance, although 
he  was  required  to  prepare  a  Conveyance- 
Seward  v.  Wilcock,  5  East  189.  Loundes  v. 
Bray,  1810.  Sug,  Vendors,  233,  8th  ed.  And 
as  it  appears  that  defendants  have  failed  to  ad- 
duce a  good  title,  although  they  got  the  original 
deeds  back  from  the  plaintiff  for  instituting 
actions  against  the  claimants,  which  are  aban- 
doned, the  plaintiff  ought  to  have  instituted  his 
action  in  the  above  form  for  the  recovery  of 
the  deposit,  whereas  by  his  amended  Libel  he 
seeks  to  compel  the  specific  performance  of  the 
contract  without  any  express  prayer  in  the 
alternative  for  the  defendants  being  decreed  to 
repay  the  deposits,  and  it  is  only  under  the 
general  prayer  for  relief  that  the  Court  can  now 


427 


1847 


grant  bim  tlie  above  redress  upon  the  facts  ap- 
pearing iu  the  atatemeota  of  the  parties  in  their 
pleadings  and  examination,  and  in  the  evidence, 
to  warrant  such  a  decree."    [No.  10826,  D.  C' 
Colomho.     (See   Murray's    Reports,  p  87.) 


general  pray- 
er  for  relief. 


March  30,  (C.) 
933 — Fernando  v.  Fernando. 

A.  preliminary  objection  was  taken  by  the 
appellant's  counsel,  that  the  parties  proceeded 
to  trial  and  examined  witnesses  without  any 
EeplicatioD.  The  Supreme  Court  thought  the 
objection  came  too  late  from  the  defendants. 
On  reference  to  Mitford's  F^.  Plead,  p  p.  252 
and  257,  and  Mad.  Ch.  Fr.  vol.  2,  pp.  451  and 
453,  it  is  said, — "  A  further  answer  is  in  every 
respect  similar  to,  and  indeed  is  considered  as 
forming  part  of,  the  first  Answer  ;".and  "  where 
by  mistake  a  Eeplication  had  not  been  filed,  and 
yet  witnesses  had  been  examined,  the  Court 
permitted  the  Replication  to  be  filed  nunc  pro 
tunc."  Blagden  v.  Cramlington,  l^.  Nov.  1787, 
Mosely  296.— [No.  10442,  D.  C.  Colombo, 


Objection  to 
examination 
of  witnesses 

before  Eepli- 
cation is 

filed,    should 
be  made  at 
the  trial  in 

Court  below. 


April  17,  (C.) 
934 — In  ]'e  Pahalewatte  MoJiotalle. 
Bincjiry  Eamy  v.  Lokoo  Fttena. 

Where  the  appointment  of  Executor  fails  by 
the  sole  Executor  appointed  in  the  Will  dying 
before  Probate,  the  "Will  is  to  be  similarly 
proved  as  though  Probate  were  taken  of  it  by 
the  executors,  and  administration  with  the  Will 
annexed  granted  to  the  residuary  legatee,  or 
person  entitled  to  the  greatest  interest  under 
the  Will,  who  is  preferred  to  the  next  of  kin  ; 
and  the  representative  of  tlie  residuary  legatee 
Las  in  such  cases  the  same  right  to  administra- 
tion. As  the  next  of  kin,  however,  has  ^ prima 
facie  right,  the  burthen  of  proof  lies  on  the 
party    claiming   derivatively   from   a   residuary 


Mode  of  pro- 
cedure where 
sole  Executor 
dies  before 
Vrobate. 
Residuary  le- 
gatee prefer- 
red.   Next  of 
kin,  how- 
ever, hav- 
ing i)HmiJ  fa- 
cie right, 
proof  lies  on 
other  party. 


1847 


428 


Non-service 
of    notice   of 

Trial.     Ap- 

petirance  of 
defendant  in 

Court,  not- 
withstanding. 


legatee  &e.     See  Williams    On  Executors,  285; 
— [No.  85,  D.  C.  Batnapoora. 

October  30,  (T.) 
935 — Setappa  Ghetty  v.  Perera. 
"jEhe  decision  of  the  District  Court  to  hear 
this  case  ex  parte,  was  founded  upon  the  sup- 
position  that  the  defendant  had  had  sufScient 
notice  of  the  trial ;  but  this,  on  reference  to  the 
record  does  not  appear  to  have  been  the  ease, 
no  notice  having  been  given  to  the  defendant 
of  the  day  on  which  the  trial  was  to  take  place. 
Tlie  appearance  of  the  defendant  on  the  day 
of  trial,  and  his  having  cross-examined  the 
plaintiff's  witnesses  is,  in  strictness,  a  waiver  of 
the  want  of  notice.  But  as  the  defendant  had 
no  Proctor  to  advise  him,  the  Supreme  Court 
considers  he  should  not  be  precluded  from 
making  his  defence,  but  he  must  pay  for  the 
indulgence  granted  him."— [No.  3142,  D.  C. 
Colomba. 

Nov.  2,  (S.) 

936. — Bead,  Davidson  ^  Co.  v.  Cripps. 

This  was  aj^rmeti  subject  to  the  opinion  of 
the  Judges  Collectively  on  the  following 
points : — 

1 .  Whether  there  was  any  default  on  the 
part  of  the  defendant  in  not  delivering  the 
goods  to  the  plaintiff ;  if  so, 

2.  Was  such  default  within  time  of  pre- 
Boription  with  reference  to  the  Ord.  No.  8  of 
1834,  sect.  9. 

3.  Is  the  Notice  of  Action,  of  date  29fch 
May  1843  sufficient  with  reference  to  the  Ord. 
No  I  of  1889,  sect:  13.— [No.  10331.  D.  C. 
Galle, 


Nov.  6.    (T.) 
937. —  Gabriel  Naide  v.  Meganehf  J^aide. 
"  The  first  point  for  consideration  is,  whether 
the   seizure  of    the   sheep  was  lawful,   which 


429 


1847 


depends  upon,  whether  the  fences  were  in  good 
or  bad  order,  and  which  party  was  liable  to  mend 
them.  Now  in  the  case  between  the  parties, 
under  the  trespass  Ordinance,  relative  to  this 
trespass  which  has  been  just  in  evidence  and 
admitted  by  the  defendant,  the  defendant  ad- 
mits that  he  did  not  mend  his  gaps  because  the 
plaintiff  did  not  mend  his.  The  defendant 
having  neglected  to  mend  his  own  gaps,  could 
not  expect  the  plaintiff  to  mend  his;  and  the 
defendant  was  not  therefore  justified  in  dis- 
training the  sheep,  until  he  had  given  the 
owner  notice  to  remove  them  out,  and  he  could 
only  seize  them,  if  the  owner  took  no  steps  to 
remove  them."^[No.  1609,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

938. — Aleyeshere  v.  Fintoe, 

The  deficiency  of  stamp  can  be  supplied 
under  the  Ordinance  No.  6  of  1836,  cl.  9,  and 
according  to  the  practice  which  prevails  in  the 
District  Court ;  a  motion  for  that  purpose  can 
be  made  during  the  trial,  it  being  in  the  dis- 
cretion of  the  Court  to  grant  such  motion  or 
not  as  it  sees  fit,  upon  the  usual  terms  required 
by  the  Ordinance. — [No.  1959,  D,  C.  Colombo. 

Nov.  20,  (T.) 

939. — Bingiry  Amma  v.  Dingiry  Monika. 

The  point  Jn  issue  in  this  case  is,  whether  the 
respondent  was  the  wife  or  concubine  of  Appoo 
Vidahn,  and  it  should  be  open  to  the  appellant 
to  prove  that  she  was  of  lower  caste,  which 
would  raise  a  presumption  against  the  alleged 
marriage,  unless  the  respondent  could  shew  a 
due  recognition  of  her  as  Appoo  Vidahn's  wife ; 
and  it  was  also  competent  to  the  appellant  to 
shew,  by  other  evidence,  thatshe  was  his,  Appoo 
Yidahn's,  concubine :  and,  if  she  should  be  of 
lower  caste,  she  would  only  be  entitled  to  ac- 
quired property  and  not  to  her  husband's  parveny 
property  ,  and  in  this  event  it  would  be  incum- 
bent on  the  respondent  to  prove,  that  the  proper- 
ty sought  by  her  to  be  recovered,  is  such  as  she 


Distraining 
sheep  not 
justifiable  un- 
til notice 
given  to 
owner  to  re- 
move them 
and  he  fails  to 
do  so. 


Deficiency  of 

stamp,  (See 

Ord  (No,  llof 

1861) 


Concubine  of 
lower  caste 
only  entitled 
to  her  hus- 
band's acquir- 
ed property 
and  not  tohia 
j3a/ue«y  pro- 
perty. 


1847 


430 


is  entitled  to.— [No.  19306,  I>.  C.  Kandif.     (See 
S  awer's  Digest  p.  38.) 


English  Law 

of  Cha/mperty . 

Where  an 

action  is 

founded  on  an 

instrument 
which  is  bad 

in  law,  the 
S.  C   will  not 

interfere,  if 
the  deft,  who 

loses  on  the 

instrument, 
does  not  raise 
any  objection 

to  it  in  the 
Court  below, 
or  in  appeal. 


Ganglat    pro- 
prietor. 


Mv.  24,  (T.) 
&40. — Wattoohamy  v.  Dinqyhamy. 
In  law  the  instrument  upon  wbich  the  plain, 
tiff  founds  bis  action  is  illegal,  and  tbe  consi- 
deration of  it  is  what  the  EaglisU  Law 
calls  cliamperty,  i,  e.  a  bargain  between  the 
plaintiff  and  the  defendant  to  divide  the  land 
sued  for  between  them  if  they  prevail  at  Law. 
Whereupon  the  Champertor  (or  the  plaintiff  in 
this  case)  is  to  supply  funds  to  carry  on  the 
other  party's  suit.  If  t;he  defendant  had,  in  this 
case,  raised  an  objection  to  the  transaction,  or 
liad  appealed  against  the  decision  of  the  District 
Court,  this  Court  would  have  declared  the  whole 
transaction  illegal.  But  as  it  is,  the  plaintiff 
appeals  against  the  judgment  of  the  District 
Court  as  incorrect  on  account  of  its  being  con- 
ditional and  not  decisive,  and  the  defendant  has 
not  appealed  against  the  decision  at  all,  nor  has 
any  question  been  raised  against  tbe  validity  of 
the  transaction.  Under  these  circumstances, 
and  considering  that  from  anything  which  ap- 
pears to  the  contrary  the  plaintiff  bond  fide  lent 
the  money,  without  having  any  improper  or  op- 
pressive object  in  view,  the  Supreme  Court  does 
not  feel  justified  in  setting;  the  whole  transaction 
aside.  The  plaintiff,  however,  cannot  be  per- 
mitted to  recover  the  land,  but  only  the  money 
which  he  lent  to  the  defendant,  with  legal  inter- 
est,—[Xo.  4939,  D.  C.  Batnapoora. 

Nov.  30,  (T.) 
941 — Kiree  Baba  v.  Meniha. 
A  Ganglat  proprietor  *  can  change   his  te- 
nants, but  he  can  only  do  so  in  case  of  disobe- 

*  X  am  indebted  to  Mr.  James  Oorloff  of  Eatnapoora, 
Proctor  of  the  Supreme  Court,  for  the  following 
Note : — "  During  the  Kandyan  Government  the  word 
"  Ganglat  (Gang,  lands,  and  lat,  acquii-ed)  denoted  a 
"  proprietor  of  lands  under  a  Grant  from  the  Crown, 


431 


1847 


dienee,  i.  e.,  non-performance  of  services.    TNo 
5244,  D.  C.  Batnapoora. 

{Dec.  1,  (C.) 

M2—CattamoUoe  v.  Wederamian . 

The  following  form  was  used  by  the  Supreme 

Court  in  a  case  where,  in  its  judgment,  the  date 

of  the  decree  of  the  Court  below    was  wrongly 

described  :  — 

"Whereas  by  the  judgment  given  by  this 
Court  in  the  above  case  at  Baiticaloa  en  the 
10th  day  of  August  1846,  the  decree  of  the 
District  Court  of  Batticaloa  of  the  9th  day  of 
June  1845  was  set  aside,  but  the  date  of  the 
decree  of  the  Court  below  was,  by  a  clerical 
error,  described  in  the  said  judgment  as  being 
of  d|ite  the  9th  day  of  June  1846;  It  is  ordered 
that  the  said  error  be  corrected,  and  that  this 
order  be  transmitted  to  the  said  District  Court, 
together  with  the  said  judgment  so  corrected." 
[No.  4994,  D.  C.  JBatticaloa. 


Form  of  order 
correcting  an 
error  in  Judg- 
ment of  the 
Supreme 
Court. 


Dec.  8,  (J.) 

943 — Bilindi  v,  Arooma. 

This  was  an  action  brought  to  recover  land,    ^®™ertahi°° 
and  also  some   personal   property,  and   the  de-    grounds,  over 

"  but  now,  (i.  e.  since  the  British  Grovernment)  it 
"  also  includes  holders  of  lands  by  right  of  inheritance 
"  or  purchase,  or  rather  Estates  such  as  Nindegammes 
"  &c.,  to  which  are  attached  Pangoos,  held  by  tenants, 
"  under  tenures  of  service  to  the  lord  of  the  soil.  The 
"  case  No.  5244  Babnapoora,  was  for  some  lands  form- 
"  ing  the  '  TJleakareya  Pangoo,'  which  the  owner  of 
"  the  '  Nindegamme'  gave  over  to  the  Plaintiff  in  the 
"  case,  to  be  held  by  him  under  tenure  of  service. 
"  A  tenant,  if jhe  persists  in  his  refusal  to  perform 
"  service  after  a  judgment  has  been  obtained  against 
"  him  for  neglect  of  duty,  can  be  ejected,  but  only 
"  by  due  course  of  Law.  There  are  several  rulings  of 
"  the  tupreme  Court  on  this  point.  The  case  No. 
,'■  8207,  O.  C.  Batnapoora,  now  in  appeal,  will  help  to 
''give  some  idea  of  the  right  of  a  '  Nindegamme' 
"  Proprietor."  Ed, 


1847 


432 


ruled  by  Court 

below,  held 

good  in  ap- 

^peal. 


Party  must 

recover  on. 

sfcrength  of 

his  own  title, 


lu  the  ab- 
sence of  any 
ambiguity  in 
its  terms,  a 
deed  found 
valid  must 
speak  for 
itself. 

By  the 

Kamdyan 

Law,  under 

which  no 

community  of 

goods  exists, 

a'Judgment 

against  the 

husband,  in  a 

suit   where 

the  wife's 

title  was  not 

ia  issue,  will 

not  bar  the 

wife's  right 


fendaut  demurred  to  the  Libel  on  tbe   follow- 
ing grounds : — 

1.  That  tbe  date  of  the  defendant's  entry 
was  not  stated. 

2.  That  land  and  personal  property  cannot 
be  recovered  in  the  same  action. 

3.  That  the  Libel  should  more  distinctly  set 
forth  tbe  iujury  complained  of. 

The  District  Court  over-ruled  the  demurrer. 

The  Supreme  Court  held  tbe  demurrer  good, 
and  tbe  judgment  of  tbe  D.  C.  was  set  aside, 
and  plaintiff  nonsuited  with  costs.  [No.  11284, 
D.  C.  Kornegalle. 

944 — .Lohoo  Banda  v.  Mai  Samy. 

Where  in  an  action  of  ejectment  the  plaintiffs 
obtained  judgment  on  the  ground  that  they  had 
in  evidence  made  out  a  primd  facie  title  ;  Seld 
that  tbis  was  not  enough.  A  plaintiff  must 
recover  upon  the  strength  of  his  own  title.  [No. 
5388,  D.  C.  Batnapoora. 


945 — .Manikhamy  v.  Kirry  Ettena. 

A  deed,  having  been  found  valid,  must  speak 
for  itself,  and  the  Court  cannot  consider  what 
it  was  the  parties  intended  to  be  the  probable 
effect  of  it,  in  the  absence  of  any  ambiguity  in 
tbe  terms  of  it.  [No.  4779,  D.  C.  Batnapoora. 


Dee.  14,  (J.) 

946. — Kirry  Ettena  v.  Heteregedere  Appoo, 
In  a  former  case,  No.  69,  the  defendant's 
father  sued  tbe  husband  of  tbe  present,  plaintiff, 
during  coverture,  for  the  lands  which  are  the 
subject  of  the  present  action.  In  that  suit  the 
plaintiff^s  husband,  {Selappoo')  in  his  defence, 
set  up  a  claim  to  tbe  lands  in  bis  own  right,  and 
independent  of  bis  wife  tbe  present  plaintiff. 
Selappoo  failed  in  his  defence,  and  the  lands 
were  decreed  to  the  plaintiff  in  that  case.  In 
the  present  action  tbe  plaintiff  rested  her  claim 
entirely  in  her  own  right,  and  independent  of 
her  husband.    The  defendant  pleaded  the  former 


433 


1S47 


judgment  in  case  No.  69,  witli  other  grounds  of 
defence.  After  repeated  judgments  both  in  the 
Appellate  Court,  and  in  the  Court  below,  the 
District  Court  found  that  the  plaintiff  had  es- 
tablished a  title  by  prescription  ;  but  that  the 
former  judgment  was  binding  against  the  pre- 
sent plaintiff  on  the  ground  that,  as  she  might 
have  been  a  party  to  that  suit,  the  £ecord  was 
consequently  in  evidence  against  her,  and  in 
support  of  this  position  quoted  1  SfarMe,  260. 
The  Supreme  Court  thought  thot  this  was 
true  as  regards  the  lessor  of  a  plaintiff  in  an 
action  of  ejectment,  in  which  the  defendant 
obtained  judgment.  2  Bac.  Ah.  616.  Such 
judgment  may  at  any  time  be  given  in  evidence 
against  the  lessor,  for  the  possession  of  his 
lessee  is  his  own  possession,  and  his  own  title 
has  been  in  issue.  But  not  so  in  this  case- 
By  the  Kandyan  Law  there  is  no  permanent 
community  of  goods  between  husband  and 
wife,  and  their  respective  estates  remain  dis- 
tinct from  each  other.  The  husband  in  the 
former  suit  claimed  the  land  as  his  own, 
independent  of  his  wife,  and  the  title  of  the 
wife  was  in  no  way  put  in  issue.  The  Su- 
preme Court,  therefore,  considered  that  plain- 
tiff was  not  bound  by  the  judgment  against  her 
husband,  and  that  she  could  maintain  this  action ; 
and  the  Court  agreed  with  the  Court  below 
that  plaintiff  proved  a  prescriptive  title.  The 
Judgment  of  the  District  Court  was  set  aside 
and  the  plaintiff  was  decreed  entitled  to  the 

lands.    [No.    2690  P.  C.  Kandi/. 

19472 

May  30,  (C.) 

94i1.—Paitooma  NatcUa  v.  Menaehy. 
Where  the  plaintiff  claims  his  own  share  only, 
and  although  he  demands  in  hisllibel  more  than  he 
appears  to  be  entitled  to,  he  must  recover  upon 
it  "  aeeordmg  to  his  title-"  His  being,  there- 
fore, entitled  to  less  than  claimed  in  the  Li- 
bel does  not  render  it  necessary  for   him  to 


to  bring  an 

action  for  the 

same  laud, 


1848. 


Where  a 
party  claims 
more  than  he 
is  entitled  to, 
he    will    get 

judgment 
only  'accord- 


18-18 


434 


ing  to  his  ti-  atneud  the  latter,  nor  form  any  ground  for  non- 
tie.'  suit,  although  it  may  subject  him  in  gross  in- 
stancea  to  pay  costs.  In  Denn  d.  Surges  \. 
Purvis,  1  Burr.  326,  Loed  Mansmeld  said, — 
"  This  is  an  exceedingly  plain  case,  The  rule 
"  is  undoubtedly  right  that  the  plaintiff  must 
"  recover  according  to  his  title.  Here,  she  has 
"  demanded  half,  sad  she  appears  entitled  to  a 
"  third,  and  so  much  she  ought  to  recover." 
And  this  is  so  whether  the  action  be  brought  for 
an  undivided,  or  a  several  and  divided  portion  ; 
for  the  whole  or  a  part.  la  Ahbett  v.  Skinner,  1 
Siderf.  229,  where  the  declaration  was  for  one 
fourth  part  ot  a  fifth  part,  and  the  true  title 
was  only  to  one-third  of  one-fourth  of  a  fifth- 
part,  (which  was  only  a  third  part  of  what  was 
demanded),  yet  it  was  resolved  that  the  verdict 
should  he  taken  according  to  the  title:  and  so 
if  a  plaintiff  demands  in  his  libel  40  acres,  he 
may  recover  20  if  entitled  to  no  more 
36,718,  D,  C.  Colomio. 


[No, 


Notary,  or  at- 
testing wit- 
ness, must  be 
called  toprove 

a  Deed. 
Death  of  No- 
tary or  ill- 
ness, of  at- 
testing wit- 
ness.does  not 
dispense  with 
legal  proof. 


The  Plaintiff 
ought  to  be 
called  upon 
to  state  that 
he  has  closed 
his  case,  and 
tho        Judge 


948. — Don  David  v.  Ederemanesingem 

The  illness  of  an  attesiing  witness,  although 
he  lies  without  hope  of  recovery,  is  not  a  suf- 
ficient ground  for  letting  in  evidence  of  his 
handwriting.  Harrison  v.  Blades,  3  Camp. 
457.  Even  if  the  Notary  had  been  dead,  it 
would  not  have  been  sufficient  to  prove  his 
handwriting,  but  one  of  the  two  attesting  wit- 
ness ought  to  have  been  called.  Guntiffe  v. 
Befton,  2  East  183.  McGrew  v.  Gentry,  3 
Camp.  232.— [No.  32,837  D.  0.  Colombo. 

949. — Silva  and  others  v.  Alwis  and  others. 

The  decree  of  the  District  Court  was  revers- 
ed, and  the  case  remauded'back  for  hearing,  and 
Judgment  de  novo.. 

Per  Caer  C.  J.  The  Court  is  ihe  more  in- 
clined to  grant  this  indulgence,  from  its  former 
order*  having  been  partially   misunderstood  ;  as 


*  See  Murray's  Rc^orU  p,  32,  Ed. 


435 


1848 


it  certainly  held  therein  that  the  Plaintiffs  must 
be  taken  to  have  closed  their  ease  from  their  con- 
duct, tliough  the  more  usual  and  the  preferable 
course  is  to  call  upou  the  Plaintiff  to  state  that 
he  has  closed   his  case,  and  for  the   Judge  to 
make  a  minute  of  tUe  Plain  dff  having  done  so, 
in  his  notes  of  the  trial,     The  Court   also  in  the 
above  order  strictly  confined   its  opinion  to  the 
points  of  practice,  and  v»as  not  called  on,  in  any 
way,   to  express    its   view   of     the    merits   of 
the    plaintiffs'    case    as    it    then    stood,  and 
certainly    did    not    do    so  ;    but    being     now 
called  upon   to   state  its  opinion   on  the  same, 
it    must    observe,   that  if   the    plaintiffs'   case 
rested  at  present  solely  on  their  being  admitted 
to  be  the  heirs  of  the  two  daughters  of  Miguel 
Bias,  the  original  proprietor,  w'ho  died  some  time 
ago  and  does  not  appear  on  the  pleadings  to  be 
the  last  person  seised,  the  Court  would  now  re?- 
quire  the  plaintiffs  to  adduce  further  evidence  of 
title  before  it  ejected  the  defendants;  but  as  the 
defendants  admit  that  MiguelDias  was  entitled  to 
one  fourth  of  the  garden    in  dispute,  and  they 
claim  the  whole  of  that  as  having  been  possessed 
and  inherited   from  him  by  their   father  Dinea 
Bias,  and  add  that  his  "  sisters"  (to  whom  the 
plaintiffs   are  the   admitted    heirs)    "  Tiad  their 
^rtionsfrom  other  lands,  and  so  we  have  always 
possessed,"   the   onus   is  clearly  thrown  on  the 
defendants  to  commence  with  their  evidence,  and 
prove  the  division  or  adverse  possession  by  which 
their  father  thus  acquired  a  right  to  his  sister's 
share  in  their  paternal   property.     Nothing  is 
more  common  in  this  country  than  for  the  eldest 
son  of  a  Native  family  to  continue  in  the  posses- 
sion of  the  paternal  estate,  allowing  his  brothers 
and  sisters  their  shares  as  required  ;  and  if  he 
or  bis  children  set  up  an  exclusive  right  against 
the  brother's  or  sister's  claim  by  inheritance  to 
such  estate,  by  virtue  of  an  alleged  division  or 
partition  between  them  or  an  adverse  possession, 
giving  a  title  by  prescription,  he  or  those  claim- 
ing under  him,  ought  clearly  to  be  called  upon  to 
proTe  the  same  in  the  first  instance ;  and  any 


ought  to  make 
inliis  notes  o£ 
the  Trial,a 
minute  of  the 
Plaintiff  hav- 
ing done  so. 
Claim  under 
a  common  an- 
cestor . 
Division    or 
adverse   pos- 
session ; 
burthen  of 
proof. 


1848 


438 


Action  to  try 
disputed  ten- 
nurte  of  lands 
held  by  Nille- 
ftorios.  Eject- 
ment. 


Long  posses- 
sion as  mort- 
gagee is  not 
adAierse  pos- 
session. 


Other  course  would  in  tbe  opinion  of  this  Court 
be  fraught  with  the  most  dangerous  consequences 
to  existing  rights  of  the  Natives  in  their  family 
estates.     [No.  2098,  B.  0.  Colombo* 

June  2adj  (C.) 

950. — Jasundere   Korale    v.    Dominguwd    and 
another. 

In  this  ease  the  decree  of  the  Court  below  wjis 
affirmed  as  to  the  damages  awarded  and  costs  of 
suit,  but  modified  by  so  much  of  it  as  ejects  the 
defendant,  being  set  aside,  reserving  to  the  plain- 
tiff his  right  to  eject  the  defendant  in  anotlier 
action,  Upon  any  ftesh  default  by  defendant  to 
perform  the  due  servibes.  Per  Carr  C.  J. — Iii 
these  stiits  to  try  .the  disputed  tenure  of  lands 
held  by  Nillekarias,  this  Court  has  usually  been 
very  indulgent  in  not  ejecting  in  the  first  instnnce. 
—  [Ao.  5367,  B.  0.  Bafnapoora,  A]so  No.  5368 
J).  C.  Batnapoora. 

* 

951. — Baleiatiejodde  v.  Gamea. 
Where  the  plaiutiiF  claimed  under  a  Deed 
from  the  defendant's  father,  which  the 
defendant  denied,  but  admitted  the  plaintiff's 
long  possession  only  as  mortgagee  j  held  that 
this  can  give  him  no  claim  to  prescriptive  titlei 
I'he  plaintitf  must  prove  his  Deed,  or  long  ad- 
verse possession  against  the  defendant  as 
heir.—  [No.  5534,  D.  C  Baina^oora.  (See 
Appendix  C.) 


Circumstan- 
ces under 
which  a  Proc- 
tor is   not 
Ijound  to  draw 
and  sign  a  Pe- 
tition of  Ap- 
peal. 


952. — Appoo  Naiie  AUdoo  Lehbe 

"The  proceedings  are  remanded  back  to  require 
a  fresh  Petition  of  Appeal  to  be  filed  at  th6 
Proctor's  cost.  The  Supreme  Cou'.t  cannot  re- 
ceive any  qualified  signature  of  a  l^roclor  to  the 
contents  of  a  Petition  of  Appeal  iu  the  form 
adopted  in  this  instance,  "  Drawn  by  me  on  the 


*  The    facts  of  tliis  case    are  stated  at    greater 
IftDgth  in  Mwnrw^'s  JBejporis  p.  48  .  Ed. 


437 


1848 


statement  of  the  Appellant.''  If  a  ProCtof  consi- 
dei's  that  he  cannot  conscientiously,  or  with  d-ue 
regard  to  bis  professional  character  and  respect- 
ability, sign  a  Petition  of  Appeal  in  the  usual 
form,  he  should  inform  bis  client  thereof,  and 
that  he  was  at  liberty  to  get  his  grounds  of  Ap- 
peal taken  down  by  the  Secretary.—  [iV^o.  5311, 
JD.  C.  Rainapoora. 


953. — Don  Andris  v.  Punchy  Menika. 

Where  a  loan  to  a  small  Amount  appears  to 
have  been  made,  under  probable  circamstauces, 
shortly  before  the  death  of  the  borrower,  and  is 
supported  by  clear  parol  evidence,  it  ought  not 
to  he  viewed  with  the  same  hesitation  and  sus- 
picion as  a  stale  demand,  or  a  debt  of  a  large 
amount  might  fairly  be,  if  depending  solely  on 
parol  testimony  without  any  document  in  sup- 
port of  it.     ,[^0.  5424,  B.  C.  Eatnapoora. 


June  15tb,  (C.) 
954 — X)e  Wants  v.  Komaryhamy  naA.  others. 

Weg  oddepalle  Ratte  Mahatmeya,  Intervient. 

In  this  case  the  Supreme  Court  held  that  the 
iuterventiou  after  the  Plaintiff  liad  obtained 
Judgment  against  the  Defendants  was  strictly 
irregular,  but  "  as  the  parties  have  raised  no 
objection  on  the  pleadings,  the  case  between 
the  iuterveuient  and  Plaintiff  might  proceed  on 
as  an  incidental  suit,  although  in  that  view  the 
intervient  ougbt  to  have  been  called  on  in  the 
first  instance    to   adduce  his  evidence."     [A'o. 

4250    I).  C.  Kandy. 

I9l65 


Aloan  shortly 
before    the 
death  of  the 
borrower.  Ta- 
rol   evidence. 


An  interven- 
tion after 

judgment    is 

irregular. 

Incidental 

suit. 


August  IGth,  (S.) 

^55— Sahanda  and  sxuotheT,  \,Ellendawa  afld 

others. 

The  Plaintiffs   having    been  present  on    the    The   Defend- 
'day  appointed   for  the    hearing   of  this   cause,      ants  cannot 


1848. 


be  absolved 
on  the  day  of 
hearing,  when 
the  Plaintiffs 

are  present. 


there  is  no  authority  under  the  Eu1es  of  Court 
in  support  of  the  judgment  of  absolvifer  entered 
in  this  case.  It  is  only  where  the  Plaintifi  and 
his  witnesses  are  absent,  that  such  judgmeni; 
can  be  given  ;  but  in  this  case  not  only  were 
the  Plaintiffs  present,  but  they  had  also  duly 
eubpcBned  their  witnesses,  who  failed  to  attend, 
[No,  5540,  D,  C.   Batnapoora. 


Septemier  25  th. 

[The    Hon'ble  James  Sxaek   Esquire  was 
sworn  in  aa  Acting  Senior  Puisne  Justice.^ 

[The  Hon'ble  Cheistopheb  Temple  Ea- 
quire  was  swora  in  aa  Acting  Junior  Puisne 


439 


1S49 


18i9. —Felruari/  2,  (O.) 
956,—Katide  Unanse  v.  WaulpenHe  Unanse. 
It  is  no  objection  to  a  Libel  that  all  the  docu- 
mentary  evidence  mentioned  in  it  is  not  filed. 
The  Libel  Las  nothing  to  do.  with  the  evidence 
which  is  to  support  it-  [No.  5316,  D.  C. 
Batnapoora. 

957 — Aratohehj  \.  Baleappoo. 
"  The  deed  being  more  than  thirty  years  old 
does  not  require  to  be  proved  by  the  subscribing 
witnesses.  The  Couit  and  assessors  must  pro- 
nounce upon  its  authenticity  in  the  best  manner 
they  can,  but  it  must  not  be  throwH  aside 
because  not  proved  by  the  witnesses  to  it."  [No- 
6709,  D.  C.  Bafnapoora. 

May  26,  (O.) 
958. —  Cimdoo  SatcMa  v.  Sinnewen. 

Where  through  the  misunderstanding  of  a 
Proctor,  the  defendant  was  not  in  a  position 
to  go  to  trial,  the  Supreme  Court  ordered  the 
Proctor  t«  pay  the  costs  of  trial  in  the  Court 
below,  and  in  Appeal.  [No.  67601,  D?  C. 
Colombo. 


September  11,  (O.) 
959. — Perera  v.  Don  Philvpoo. 
"  The  plaintiff's  notarial  Deed,  which  as  such 
is  entitled  to  the  greatest  faith,  is  the  prop  of 
his  case,  bat  there  are  circumstances  connected 
with  it,  which,  until  explained,  weaken  the  de- 
pendence to  which  otherwise  it  would  be  en- 
titled. The  plaintiff's  name  is  Perera  the 
Notary's  name  is  Perera,  and  so  is  that  of  both 
the  witnesses.  One  witness  appears  to  be  dead  ; 
but  the  living  witness  gives  such  an  account  of 
what  took  place  when  the  deed  was  executed, 
as  contrasted  with  what  is  said  by  the  Notary, 
that  it  makes  one  doubt  his  having  been  there. 
It  is  desirable  that  these  two  witnesses  should 
be  examined  by  those  well  practised  ia  the  art 
of  eliciting  the  truth  ;  that  the  odd  coinciden(;e 


Documentary 

evidence 
mentioned  in 
Libel  need  not 
aU  be    filled, 


Deed  thirty 
years  old  need 
not  be  proved. 
It  must  not 
be  rejected  be 
cause  proof- 
was  offered 
and  failed. 


Payment  of 
Costs  by  Proc- 
tor. 


Certain  cir- 
cumstances in 

oonneotion 
with  a  Nota- 
rial Deed, 
which,   in  fhe 
opinion  of  the 

Supreme 
Court,  requir- 
ed explana- 
tion. 


1 849  440 

of  so  many  Pereras  being  in  the  transaction 
should  be  explained,  and  that  the  Notary's  pro- 
tocal  should  be  carefully  examined  (if  it  be 
admissible  evidence,)"  [No.  2849,  D.  C.  Co- 
lomho. 

October  24,  (S.) 
960. — Perera  v.   Swaris. 

This  was  an  action  brought  to  set  aside  the 
defendant's  opposition  to  a  sale  of  certain  pro- 
perty under  a  Writ  of  Execution.  The  defend- 
ant claimed  the  property  in  question  by  pur- 
chase from  Andris  Fernando,  as  administrator 
of  David  Fernando,  to  which  latter  the  property 
was  admitted  by  all  parties  to  have  be- 
longed. But  the  plaintiff  denied  Andris 
lernando  to  be  such  administrator,  and 
alleged  tbat  the  property  passed  on  David 
Fernanda's  death  to  his  mother  {Maria 
Peris,  widow  of  Gabriel  Fernando,)  his 
sister  {Isabella  Fernando)  and  his  brother 
{Andris  Fernando^)  It  further  appeared  from 
the  defendant's  own  admission,  (I.),  that  the 
sale  to  him  by  Andxis  Fernando  was  a  private 
sale,  not  a  sale  by  public  auction  :  and  (2.)  that 
he  never  got  possession  of  the  premises. 

Judgment  was  given  by  the  District  Court, 
that  the  defendant  be  quieted  in  the  possession 
of  the  premises,  and  that  the  plaintiff's  claim 
be  dismissed  with  costs. 

On  the  hearing  of  the  Appeal  for  the  plaintiff, 
the  following  questions  arose  : — 

1st.  Whether  the  plaintiff's  admission  in  his 
examination,  that  Letters  of  Administratioa 
were  taken  out  shortly  after  David  Fernanda's 
death  by  his  brother,  {Andris  Fernanda,)  was 
sufficient  legal  proof  of  such  administration . 
having  been  granted.  The  plaintiff  contended 
not,  relying  on  the  cases  in  4  East,  53  ;  1  Bingh. 
73  ;  Douffl,  216  ;  but  see.  Eoscoe  On  Evid.  p.  p, 
38  9nd  40. 

2nd.  Whether  a  private  sale  by  an  admim's- 
trator,  as  in  the  present  case,  is  valid  and  effec- 


441 


1849 


ual;  The  plaiatiff  contended  not,  and  ques- 
tioned the  Collective  decision  in  the  case 
Chilaw  and  Putlam '^o,  ^^\Q,  which  was  fol- 
lowed in  D.  C.  Colombo  No.  986,  July-  S,  1847. 

3rd.  Whether  any  sale  could  be  effected  ia 
this  case,  without  the  consent  of  the  heirs  of 
the  deceased. 

4th.  "Whether  possession  of  the  premises  was 
acquired  by  the  defendant,  and  if  not,  what  ia 
the  consequence  of  such  want  of  possession  ia 
reference  to  the  deed  of  sale  in  his  favor  ;  and 

5th.  Whether  any  consideration  was  given 
for  the  sale,  and  if  not,  what  is  the  effect  ol  this 
in  the  tranaction.  Cur.  adv.  vult.  [No.  2496, 
D.  C.  Colombo. 

December  5,  (0.) 

9Q\,-—AwuJcer  Lebhe  v.  Mamel  Tamhy. 

If  after  judgment  and  before  execution  one 
of  two  or  more  plaintiffs  dies,  the  survivors 
may  take  out  execution  in  the  names  of  all  the 
plaintiffs  ;  or,  if  they  please,  may  suggest  the 
death  of  one  of  them  on  the  record,  and  take 
out  execution  in  the  name  of  the  survivors.. 
[No.  2054,  D.  C.  Manaar. 


Procedure, 
where  one  of 
two  or  more 
Haintiffsdies 
after  Judg- 
ment 
and  before 
execution. 


Dee.  7,  (0.) 

962. — Mudelitamly  v.  Aratchille. 

"  The  grant  of  the  land  is  a  donatio  intervivoi, 
to  take  effect  de  presenti,  and  the  lauds  are- 
thereby  given  for  certniri  purposes  beneficial 
to  the  grantor,  and  the  grantee  who  has  entered 
into  possession  has  a  right  of  action  against  any 
person  molesting  him  therein." — [No.  10741, 
D.  C.  Kornegalle. 


Grantee  of 
Land    donatio 
intervivos  who 

has  entered 

into 


sion  may 

maintain  an 

action  against 

a  ti-espftsser, 


February  2,  1850.  CO.) 

963, —  Qillemalle  v.  Gittemulle. 
The  witness  who  was  rejected  because  he  was 


1850 


Plaintiff  in  a 

»  .,1  •   i-ir  •     Lt      c  "  .,    •  .  M         former  suit 

a  plaintm  in  the  former  suit  is  not  necessarily    notanincom- 

disqualified,  and  the  District   Court  is  referred     petent  wit- 


1850 


442 


ness  m  a 

subsequent 

suit. 


A  Counsel 
may  state  in 
■  his  speech 
matter 
which  he 
may  not  be 
allowed  to 
prove.  Time 
to  try  the 
question, 


to  Eoscoe  On,  Evid.  edition  6,  p.  636 ;  and 
6  and  7  Vict:  ch.  5,  a«  to  what  interest  sliall 
no  longer  disqualify.  [No.  5905,  D.  C.  Batna- 
poora. 

February  22,  (O.) 

QGii.—Morogaser  Pulle  v.  Collanda  . 

The  Supreme  Court  will  not  eater  into  the 
point  irregularly  taken  by  the  District  Cburt. 
A  counsel  may  state  that  he  will  prove  a  mat- 
ter which  he  may  ilot  be  allowed  to  prove  as 
objectionable  by  being  irrelevant,  or  incompe- 
tent evidence  ;  but  the  time  to  to  try  the  ques- 
tion, is  when  a  witness  is  in  the  box,  and  an 
irrelevant  or  incompetent  question  is  put  to 
hira.— No.  1262,  D.'C.  Colombo, 


Eights  and 

liabilities  of 

Vendee  and 

Vendor. 


Novemher  30.  (T.) 

965. — -Fernando  v.  Silva. 

The  issue  between  the  parties  is  whether  the 
defendants  put  plaintiff  in  possession  of  the 
lands  in  dispute.  If  a  free  and  exclusive  pos- 
session has  not  been  given,  the  vendee  lias  a 
right  to  demand  it,  or  the  return  of  the  pur- 
chase-money. "  Tbe  purchaser  by  force  of 
"  the  contract  acquires  the  right  to  demand  and 
"  receive,  and  the  vendor  incurs  the  obligation 
"  of  making  to  him  the  tradition  or  actual  de- 
"  livery  of  the  property  if  it  be  corporeal. ' 
2  Burge,  537-  [No.  10823,  D.  C.  Colombo. 


966. — Balehatgodde  v.  Gamea. 

Course  to  be         The  order  of  the  District  Court  was  tet  aside 
adopted  if  a      and  the  case   was   remanded   to  be   proceeded 
^ultfdies^       with.     "  The  District    Court   appears  (by  the 
pending         order  made   on  the  22nd   November  1849)  to 
action.  bave  recognized  the  heirs  of  the  deceased  plain- 

tiff as  partits  to  the   suit.     The  correct  course 


443 


1850 


•would  have  been  foi-  the  District  Court  upon 
their  application  to  have  revived  the  suit  in 
th  eir  name,  and  roade  them  parties-plaintiffs 
on  the  record.     [No.  5534,  D,  C.  Batnapoora. 

December  7,  (T.) 

9Q1.—Supermanien   Chetti/,  Agenb  oi  Satappa 

Chetty  V.  Goonamotto  Sopia. 

The  Supreme  Court  considers  that  the  plains 
tiff  in  this  case  does  sue  oa  his  own  behalf,  and 
that  the  calling  himself  "Agent"  in  the  head- 
ing of  the  libel  is  but  description  and  surplusage  ; 
and  the  Supreme  Court  further  considers  that 
though  he  has  partners  he  may  sue  in  his  own 
name,  2  Williams  On  Hxecutors,  1470  and  cases 
there  cited  ;  Lloyd  v.  Archhowle,  2  Tauntnn, 
324 ;  Skinner  v.  Stocks,  4  B,  and  A.  437 ; 
Kell  V.  Namly,  10  B.  and  C.  21  ;  Garrell  v. 
Hundley,  4  B.  and  C.  666 ;  CoUyer  On  Tart- 
nBrship,p.    464.  [No>  9145.  1),  C.  Colombo. 

December  9,  (T.) 
968.— Jb^M  BlacJc  v-  Trivett. 


This  case  was  called  on  for  trial,  when  the 
plamtifi  moved  for  a  postponement  on  two 
grounds, — 1st  the  absence  of  his  Advocate; 
2Mdly  the  absense  of  a  material  witness.  This 
application  was  overruled  by  the  District  Court, 
The  plaintiff  thereupon  declined  going  on  with 
his  case,  or  to  permit  the  defendant  to  call  his 
evidence,  upon  which  the  District  Court  non- 
suited the  plaintiff. 

Judgment-I  The  Supreme  Court  declines,  in 
this  case,  to  interfere  with  the  ruling  of  the 
District  Court  as  regards  the  postponement, 
such  beiog  a  matter  in  which  the  District 
Court  should  be  left  to  its  own  discretion.  The 
Plaintiff  had  no  right  to  oppose  the  defence 
being  gone  irjto,  if,  under  the  circumstances,  and 


S.  C.  will  not 
interfere  with 
the  ruling  of 
D.C.on  a  ques- 
tion of  post- 
ponement. 


1850 


444 


1851 


Service  of 

notice  of 

judgment. 


Case  remand- 
ed to  prove 
damages. 


Aclcnowledg- 
ment  of  a 
loan  may  be 
read  in  evi- 
dence per  se, 
and  surplus- 
age in  the 
instrument 
rejected. 


the  issues  taken,  the   onus  of  the    proof  rested 
with  the  defendant.  [No.  6868,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

1851.— February  3,  (O.) 

969.—  Wille  v.  Vellanm  Chetty. 

Service  of  Notice  to  shew  cause  why  judgment 
should  not  be  entered  is  not  proved,  which  ought 
to  have  been  done  before  judgment  could  have 
been  given.     [No.  5895,  D.  C.  Batnapoora. 

February  5,  (0.) 
970. — Fgoddewatte  v.  Kaliatawatte. 

The  District  Court  has  giyen  damages  without 
any  proof  of  the  amount  having  been  given.  The 
case  is  therefose  remanded  to  give  the  plaintiffs 
an  opportunity  of  proving  their  damage.  [No. 
6120,  D,  C.  Matnapoora. 


971. — Mahamadoe  v.  Nonis. 

The  Supreme  Court  is  of  opioion  that  the  in- 
strument not  admitted  in  evidence  is  an  acknow- 
ledgment of  a  loan,  with  an  agreement  added  as 
to  how  repayment  is  to  be  made.  That  the  ac- 
knowledgment of  tlie  loan  requires  no  receipt  or 
other  stamp,  and  may  be  read  in  evidence |3er  se 
irrespective  of  the  remainder  of  the  document, 
and  whether  such  remainder  requites  a  stamper 
not.     [No.  3367,  D.  C.  Colombo. 

972  — KaloTiamy  v.  Kirrehamy 

The  decree  in  this  case  was  set  aside  as  there 
was  no  proof  recorded  that  Notice  of  Trial  was 
given  to  plaintiff.    [No.  5987,  D,  C.  Batnapoora. 


August  16,  (C.) 

973. — Ketarihamy  v.  Gamea. 

This  case  vaa  ajirmed  aa  a  non-suit,   '"The 

witnesses  are  very  unsatisfactory  to   prove  the 

plaintiffs  possession   under  the  alleged  old  deed 

of  pui'chase  which  is  filed,  or  any  possession  ad- 


U5 


1851 


verse  to  tbe  defendant's  claim  as  moitgagor.  The 
facts  alleged  in  the  defence  by  the  answer,  as  to 
the  tenure  of  tbe  lands  under  tbe  Saffragam 
Dewale,  and  that  defendants  bad  continued  to 
perform  the  services  due  thereto  as  tom-tom- 
beaters,  to  which  caste  plaintiffs  do  not  belong, 
and  also  that  the  land  appears  as  the  defendant's 
in  the  Commutation  and  Temple  register,  are 
not  particularly  denied  in  the  Eeplication,  but 
alleged  to  be  irrelevant  points,  whereas  they  are 
most  material  and  important  in  considering 
whether  tbe  plaintiffs  have  held  only  as  mort- 
gagees. See  Mal-sbaU's  Jwf^sr^s  361,382.  [No. 
5534  0.  C.  Ratnapoora. 

August  19,   (C.) 

974. —  Combe  Hamy  v  Lekam. 
Gerra  Ettena  intervenient. 


Tenure  of 
Temple 
Lauds. 
Performance 
of  Services. 


The  widow  of  a  husband  A^mg  cliildless  \\o.s 
the  same  life  interest,  and  that  only  in  her  hus- 
band's landed  property,  whether  hereditary  or 
acquired,  as  the  widow  of  a  husband  who  bns 
died  leaving  issue.  See  Sawer's  Digest,  p.  63. 
Where  a  deceased  had  left  near  relatives,  as 
nephews,  bis  childless  widow  has  only  been  held 
entitled  to  such  life  interest,  bee  Armour's 
Digest  p.  19,  21, 

An  intervenient  having  joined  a  suit  after  tbe 
plaintiff's  Eeplication  to  defendant's  Answer  bad 
been  filed,  was  bound  to  take  up  the  suit  in 
the  stage  in  -which  he  found  it,  aud  no  further 
pleadings  therefore  ought  to  have  been  allpwed. 
[No.  5951,  D.  C.  Ratnapoora. 


Kandyan 

Law. 
Widow  en- 
titled to  same 
life  interest 
in  husband's 
landed  pro- 
perty, whe- 
ther he  left 
issue  or  not. 

Intervenient 
bound  to 
take  up  a 
suit  in  the 
stage  in 
which  he' 
finds  it. 


975. 'Wijeyekoon  v.  Dalpedado. 

mid,  that  documents  filed  by  the  plaintiff, 
referred  to  in  bis  Eeplication,  and  made  part  of 
his  case  on  tbe  pleadings,  could  not  be  disproved 
by  himself  by  calling  evidence.  [No.  6136,  D. 
C.  Ratnapoora. 


Documents 
filed  by Plain- 
tff  cannot  be 
disproved  by 

liimself  call- 
ing evi  ence. 


1852 


446 


Judgment  o  f 
dbsolmter  is 
not  a  final 
judgment. 


1852.— October  20,  (0.) 

976.— Zo^oo  Hamy  vs.  Baba  Appoo 

In  this  esse  the  District  Judge  lield  that  the 
action  as  regards  the  intervenient  and  defend- 
and  was  estopped  by  a  former  judgment ;  but 
the  Supreme  Court  sei  aside  the  finding, 
inasmuch  as,  in  the  former  case,  there  was  no 
final  judgment,  but  the  defendant  was  merely 
absolved  from  the  instance.  [No.  15019,  D, 
C.   Caltura. 


Court  will 
not  grant 
administra- 
tion whese 
delay  is  un- 
reasonable 
and  unex- 
plained. 


November  18,  (0.) 

In  re  Cooray  Lekani, 

9Tl. — Devoodito  Appoo  vs.  Juan  Goorey. 

The  Prerogative  Court  of  Canterbury  does 
not  grant  Probate  or  letters  of  administration 
after  five  years,  unless  satisfactory  reason  be 
shewn  for  the  delay,  and  this  Court  will  not 
grant  administration  after  a  delay  of  55  years. 
"Williama,  On  Executors,  p.  292  and  393  [No. 
484,  D.  G.  Caltura. 

November  20,  (C.) 


978, — Glarke  Bomer  &  Co.  vs.  Vanderstraaten . 

In  this  case  the  decree  of  the  District  Court 
was  corrected  as  to  the  costs,  and  the  plain- 
tiffs were  decreed  to  recover  their  full  costs  in 
tje  Court  below,  and  in  appeal. 

Judgment.']  The  Supreme  Court  cannot  see 
the  slightest  ground  for  making  the  plaintiffs 
pay  their  own  costs.  Tbe  defendant  allowed 
her  account  with  the  plaintiffs  (her  chemists) 
to  run  over  a  period  of  about  two  years  unpaid, 
and  then  disputed  the  items,  admitting  less  than 
one  half  only  to  be  due,  viz  .-  £2,  9.  3,  out  of 
£5.  15.  10. 

A  full  account  or  bill  of  particulars  is  then 
called  for  and  submitted  to  proof  on  both  sides, 
and  only  fO,  13.  6  is  disallowed  thereon,  and 
that  alsu  for  articles  furnished  to   the   members 


447 

of  tlie  family,  who  usually  procured  medicines, 
&c,  supplied  to  the  defendant.  [No.  13699, 
D.  C.  Colombo. 


1852 


979.— Say  Hamine  r.  Don  David. 

"Plaintiff's  claim  to  tbe  moiety,  which  is 
proved  to  have  belonged  to  her  late  husband,  is 
also  supported  by  the  Deed  of  Gift  from  him, 
which  was  voidable  in  his  life  ;  but  as  he  has 
died  without  any  revocation  of  it,  the  gift  can 
be  sustained.  See  Burge,  275.  Grotius  Int. 
1.  c.  2,  s.  6,  p.  284.  V.  D.  Linden,  214. 

"Ihe  objection  to  the  want  of  stamp  is 
waived  ;  and  the  9  th  clause  of  the  Ord.  No.  21 
of  1844  cannot  apply  to  the  plaintiff's  claim 
.under  the  Deed  of  Gift,  because,  upon  it,  her 
right  has  not  accrued  as  devisee,  heir-at-law, 
or  as  executrix  or  administratrix."  [No.  10164. 
D.  C,  Colombo. 


A  Deed  of 
Gift  by  a 
husband  to 
his  wife 
though  void- 
able in  his 
lifetime,  may 
be  sustained 
if  he  dies 
without  re- 
voking it. 


November  17,  (C.) 

980. — Falleneappa  Chetty  v.  Tellewenem 

Where  parties  have  neglected  to  take  any 
acknowledgment  in  writing  to  prove,  the  debt 
claimed,  and  rely  wholly  on  parol  evidence  of 
it,  tlie  Supreme  Court  has  frequently  declared 
that  the  witnesses  must  be  most  unexception- 
able to  establish  the  demand.  [No.  12930, 
D,  C.  Colombo. 

December  4,  (C.) 

98  J . — Henea  v.  Kirif  B.any. 

The  decree  of  the  Court  below  was  amended 
by  the  parties  being  decreed  to  bear  their  own 
costs  in  the  suit,  as  the  demand  might  have  been 
recovered  in  the  Court  of  Requests,  (the  whole 
of  the  land  not  being  disputed,)  and  the 
plaintiff  therefore  was  not  entitled  to  costs 
under  clause  5  of  Ordinance  No.  12  of  1843. 
[No.  6304,  D.  C.  Satnapoora. ' 


Parol  evi- 
dence to 
prove  unac- 
knowledged 
debts  must 
be  most  un- 
exception- 
aible. 


1852 


448 


Prescinptiou 
can  be  inter- 
rupted only 

by  an  act 
done,  but  not 
by  an  omis- 
sion or  fail- 
ure to  do  an 
act. 


982.- 


JDecember  21,  (C.) 
-  Sitigo  Appoo  V.  Juanis  Appoo. 


The  mere  silence  of  the  defendant  and  bis 
omission  to  urge  his  claim  or  to  raise  any 
objection  when  he  was  present,  on  the  field 
being  given  to  the  plaintiff's  wife  (as  he  took 
no  part  therein)  will  not  defeat  his  prescriptive 
title.  The  Ordinance  speaks  oaly  of  any 
"  Aef,  not  of  the  ongission  or  failure  to  do 
an  act,  although  from  such  conduct  an  atquies- 
ence  by  silent  implication  may  sometimes  be  in- 
ferred. It  could  tend  therefore  in  this  case  only 
to  strengthen  any  other  evidence  which  may  be 
adduced,  of  the  defendant  having  done  some 
act  recognizing  the  plaintiff's  title.  [No.  153;: 9, 
D.  C.  Colombo. 


Interest  will 
cease  run- 
ning if  len- 
der is  follow- 
ed by  pay- 
ment of 
raoney  into 
Court, 


Dec.  29,  (C.) 
QS3 .— Alende  Hamy  v.  Katadea.. 

To  exonerate  the  defendant,  and  stop  tlia 
running  of  interest,  the  tender  should  have 
been  followed  by  payment  of  the  money  into 
Court.  See  3,  Burge  C.  P.  839  ;  Negombo  case 
4101,  87th  November  1830.  [No.  6290,  D.  C. 
Bafnapoora, 


In  le  T.  A.  Neuwenhoven. 
T.  H.  Ver  Hoeven,  Applicant. 
/.  H.  Eaton,  Opponent. 

There  are  two  appeals  in  this  Testamentary 
case.  The  District  Court  having  dismissed  with 
cofts  the  applications  for  administration  of 
both  the  applicant  and  opponent,  they  have 
separately  appealed  from  that  judgment. 

The  intestate  went  by  the  name  of  Thomas 
Andreas  Neuwenhoven,  wrote  it  freely,  and  ac- 
knowledged no  other  name.  He  died  possessed 
ofabout  £1000  sterling,  but  is  stated  to  have 
been  extremely  close  and  reserved  in  his  habits, 


449  1852 

and  to  have  communicated  little  about  his  rela- 
tions. Mr.  Piachaud  who  was  examined  in  this 
Court  as  having  been  his  Agent,  and  who  must 
be  considered  to  give  disinterested  testimony  on 
both  sides,  says,  "  I  have  tried  to  make  out  his 
"  relatives,  but  I  never  could  make  them  out. 
"  He  told  me  that  he  was  born  at  Galle,  and 
"left  it  when  he  was  18.  He  was  more  than 
"  50  years.  He  was  very  mysterious  about  his 
"  relatives.  He  called  himself,  and  signed  hie 
"name  Thomas  Andreas  JS/euwenJioven.  He 
"wrote  it  as  if  used  to  the  signature";  and  he 
adds  afterwards,  "  I  had  no  reason  to  believe 
"  that  lie  went  by  an  assumed  name." 

The  applicant  Thomas  Henricus  Ver  Hoeven 
alleges  that  the  intestate  was  his  younger 
brother,  and  that  his  real  name  was  Johannes 
Stephanus  Ver  Hoeven;  that  their  parents 
names  were  William  Frederick  Ver  Hoeven,  and 
Johanna  de  Haan,  and  two  extracts  from  the 
baptismal  register  of  the  Wolvendahl  Chnrch 
at  Colombo  are  adduced,  proving  that  they  had 
a  son,  Thomas  Henricus,  baptized  on  the  13th 
February  1791,  and  another  son  Johannes  Ste- 
phanus,  baptized  on  the  22nd  September  1793. 
The  applicant  called  also  six  witnesses,  \vho 
depose  to  his  parents  having  only  had  these 
two  sons  who  were  the  applicant  and  intestate, 
and  no  daughters  ;  that  the  intestate  went  early 
to  sea,  and  on  his  return  to  Ceylon  about  30 
years  sfter,  they  recognized  him  as  the  appli- 
caat's  brother.  The  District  Court  has  con- 
sidered the  relationship  not  established  upon 
Buch  evidence,  doubting,  with  much  reason, 
the  ability  of  the  witnesses  to  recognise 
the  intestate  after  such  a  lapse  of  years, 
when  he  left  so  young,  that  age  must  have 
greatly  changed  him,  and  when  the  in- 
testate positively  denied  the  relationship  or 
identity,  and  did  not  recognize  any  of  the  wit- 
nesses as  former  friends  or  early  acquaintance?. 
Upon  closely  sifting,  moreover,  their  evidence, 
it  wholly  breaks  down,  as  the  witnesses  are  in- 
coDBisteut  in  several  very  important  points : 


1852  430 

The  1st  witness  avers  that   the  intestate  went 
to  sea  in  1812,  when  be  was  about  IS  years  old; 
but  2nd  witness  says  that  lie  knows  the  intes- 
tate left  beylon  -when  about  12  or  13  years  old. 
The  1st  witness  knew  the  applicant  and  intes- 
tate when  they  were  12  years  old,  and   were  at 
school  together,  (about  1803.)    The  4th  witness 
was  also  their  school- fellow,  and  says  they  were 
at  school  for  about  2  years,  and   that    intestate 
was  about  14  or  15  years  old,  wheu  the  witness 
left  a  year  before  them,  and  therefore   it  would 
Lave  been  about  1806,    The   5th   witness  de- 
poses, that  he  was  also  at  school  with    the  ap- 
plicant   and    intestate,    and    that    they  were 
brothers.    The  witness   went    to  the   school  in 
1792,  and  applicant  and  intestate  came  there  in 
1798.    Now,  in  that  year,  intestate  must  have 
been  about  3  years  old.    Tet  the  witness  cor. 
roborates  his  testimony,  by  adding  that  he  left 
the  school,  in   1799.    The  3rd   witness    proves 
nothing  on  the  point,  and  the  6th  witness  speaks 
to  his  having  known  the  applicant  and  intestate 
as  brothers,  when  he  was  ^e»ycor«  old,  and  as 
the  witness  is  ^/:«y /»e  years,   that   must  have 
been  about  1807  ;  they  came  from   their  grand- 
luother's  to  his  father's  ;  intestate  went  to  sea, 
and  witness  bad  seen  him  once  or  twice  on  his 
return,  but  had  not  seen  the  intestate  for  forti[ 
years,  yet  he  recognized  him  when  he  first  savr 
Lim  as  the  brother  of  applicant.     On  such   dis- 
crepant  evidence  the  Supreme  Court  of  course 
concurs  with  the  District  Court  decision  in  dis- 
missing the  applicant's  claim.  , 

In  regard  to  the  opponent's  claim  the  District 
Court  declares,  only,  that  he  had  not  satisfacto- 
rily proved  his, relationship,  but  the  further  evi- 
dence produced  in  this  Court  seems  to  satisfac- 
torily supply  the  deficiency  in  the  proof.  The 
1st  witness  for  the  opponent  says  that  she  did 
not  know  the  intestate's  name  was  Neuwenhoven 
till  one  day,  as  he  was  standing  at  her  door,  he 
pointed  to  the  widow  ofMendriek,  who  was  pass- 
ing, and  said  that  she  was  his  brother's  widow. 
Witness  asked  if  Hendriok  was  his  brother,  he 


451  1852 

replied  that  they  bad  the  same  mother.  He  told 
witness  that  his  name  was  J^euwenlwven.  The 
2nd  witness  deposes  that  intestate  was  living 
with  last  witness,  and  told  him  that  "he  had 
B  sister,  Mrs.  Lagarde,  but  that  she  was  dead." 
The  3rd  and  4th  witnesses  depose  to  the  intes- 
tate denying  that  his  name  was  Ver  Hoven,  and 
saying  that  it  was  Neuwenhoven,  that  be  had 
lost  his  wife  and  child  in  America  and  had 
relations  at  Galle.  but  none  in  Colombo.  The 
documentary  proof  adduced  by  the  opponent 
with  the  furtiier  evidence  heard  in  the  Supreme 
Court,  confirms  these  statements  of  the  de- 
ceased, as  to  his  name  being  Heuwenhovm,  and 
his  haying  relations  at  Galle.  Tbe  casual  re- 
cognition of  his  brother's  widow  while  passing, 
and  the  admission  of  his  having  had  a  sister, 
Mrs.  Lagarde,  who  was  dead,  appear  truthful 
and  natural  ;  they  were  also  not  inconsistent 
with  the  habitual  reserve  that  the  intestate 
showed  about  his  relatives,  if  it  arose  (as  it  very 
probably  did)  from  the  fear  of  being  annoyed 
by  their  wanting  money  from  him,  as  he  never 
sought  to  disclose  himself  to  the  widow,  and  the 
sister  and -her  only  child  were  dead.  Besides 
there  are  unguarded  moments  with  the  most 
reserved  men,  and  the  expressions  led  to  noxhiug 
at  the  time,  and  have  derived  importance  only 
from  the  documentary  and  other  proof,  previ- 
ously unknown,  confirming  them.  Moreover  if 
these  witnesses  were  untrue,  they  might  have 
stated  so  much  mofe,  and  not  confined  them- 
selves to  such  indirect  evidence.  The  extracts 
adduced  from  the  baptismal  and  marriage  regis- 
ters shew  that  Enno  Beimers  Neuwenhoven,  and 
Florentina  Brouswyk  Van  Dam  had  a  son  Hen- 
drich  Gerhard,  baptised  17th  December  1775, 
and  another  son  Thomas  Andreas  baptised  6th 
March  1785,  and  a  daughter  Anna  Francina 
baptised  27tli  March  1769,  who  became  in  1798 
Mrs  Lagarde,  and  left  no  children  surviving. 
The  opponent  is  proved  to  have  married  the 
daughter  and  only  child  of  Sendriclc  Gerhard, 
whcTdied  having  three  children,  minors,  one  of 


18S2 


452 


Illness  of  a 
Proctor  is  a 
good  ground 
for  postpone- 
ment of  a 
'I'rial. 


whom  died  subaequenb  to  the  intestate. 
Hendrick  Gerhard's  widow  is  an  old  woman 
past  80.  The  opponent,  moreover,  succeeded  to 
the  property  of  Mrs  Zagarde  nud  seems  justly 
entitled  to  administration  of  the  estate  of  the 
intestate. 

It  ia  therefore  decreed  that  Letters  of  Ad- 
minfstration  of  the  Estate  of  the  intestate  be 
granted  to  the  opponent,  and  that  under  all  the 
circumstances  of  the  case,  the  costs  on  both 
sides  be  paid  out  of  the  Estate.  [No.  795, 
D.  0.  Colombo. 

98i.—Appoo  Samy  v.  Mudelehamy. 

At  the  trial  an  application  was  made  to  post- 
pone the  case  on  account  of  the  first  defendant's 
Proctor  being  unable  to  attend  through  illness 
(which  is  always  considered  a  sufficient  cause 
for  postponement  in  the  District  Court  of  Colom- 
bo) ;  but  the  motion  was  disallowed  on  the 
ground  that,  "  there  were  Proctors  present  on 
both  sides."  The  defendants,  however,  had  se- 
vered in  their  Answers,  and  appeared  by  difier- 
ent  Proctors.  The  affidavit  also  of  the  second 
defendant's  Proctor  shews  that  he  was  quite  un- 
prepared to' conduct  the  case  of  the  first  defend- 
ant, which  was  the  most  material  in  the  cause. 
Under  these  circumstances  the  appellants  coun- 
sel has  strongly  urged  the  justice  of  granting  a 
new  trial,  and  the  Supreme  Court  has  been  the 
more  inclined  to  allow  it,  from  its  considering 
that  the  witnesses  of  the  plaintifi^  have  not  been 
fully  examined,  aud  that  the  proof  of  the  plain- 
tiffs)Deed  is  open  to'great  suspicion,  as  it  is  not 
in  accordance  with  the  Kandyan  habits,  that 
an  old  infirjn^lady  of  good  family,  and  possessing 
property,  would  undertake  a  journey  of  some 
distance  for  such  a  purpose,  without  female  at- 
tendance.    [No.  6241,  D,  C.  Batnapoora. 

985. — Naidehamy,  v.  KaluJiamy. 
Judgment.']   The  Supreme  Court  cannot  view 
this  case  in   the  same  light  that  the  District 


453  1852 

Court  lias  done.    It  is  clear  that  the  parties  have 
all  been  employed  in  searching  for  gems  on  the 
premises,  and  if  the  action  were  merely  to  reco- 
ver damages  for  the  waste  done  thereby  to  the 
field,  in  rendering  it  less  fit  for  future  cultivation, 
the  Supreme  Court  would  not  interfere  with  the 
present  judgment,  looking  to  the  evidence,  that 
all  the  parties  had  been  concerned  in  the  dig- 
ging of  the  pita.     But  this  suit  obviously,  has 
wholly  originated  fiom  a  different  cause,  viz. 
that  a  large  sapphire  of  very  unusual  size  has 
been  found  on  the  premises,   which   has  been 
secreted  and  withheld  from  the  other  parties, 
and  evidence  as  to  its  value  even  has  been  sup- 
pressed.    I  f  this  gem  be  a  large  sapphire  of  good 
colour,  and  without  blemish,  it  must  from  its 
f»reat  size,   be  of  very  considerable,  nay  of  im- 
mense value.     The  plaintifif's  8th  witness  depos- 
es to  its  being  as  large  as  a  pomegranate,  or 
mandarin  orange  ;  and  the  9th  witness  says  it 
is    larger    at   one    end    than   another, — larger 
than  a  fowl'ss  egg.     It  is  therefore  not  surpris- 
ing that  this  suit  should   have  originated,  ii  the 
parties  consider  that  they  are  joint  proprietors 
of  the  land,  where  this  unusual   gem  has  been 
discovered,  and  are  equally  entitled  to  share  lu 
its  value  ;   but   at   present  the   Court  cannot 
decide  on  the   respective    rights  of  the  parties. 
The  spot  where  the  gem  was  found  is  not  clear- 
ly pointed  out,  nor  are  the  rights  of  the  parties  . 
to  such   portion  of  the  field,  well  ascertained. 
Tor  instance,  it   seems  the  Mellaka  and  Game- 
gey  families  hold  in  tatto-maroo,  but  the  plain- 
tiff and  first  defendant  are  of  the  Mallaka  family, 
and  the   2nd   and   3rd   defendants  are   of  the 
Gamegey   family.      Again,  the     old   suits   are 
between    two    of  the    Mallaka    family-     Ihe 
tenure  in  tatto-maroo,   moreever,  gives  only  the 
right  to   cultivate  the   soil,  and  where  separate 
portions  are   held   in    turn  by  parties  in  tatto- 
maroo,  it  is  usually  owing  to  one  portion  being 
of  larger  extent,  or  more  productive   than    the 
other.  Presuming,  however,  that  the  parties  are 
joint  proprietors  of  the  land,  and   hold  in  latto- 


1852  454 

-maroo,  there  is  no  proof  of  their  right  to  gems 
found  in  the  soil,  having  been  transferred  to  each 
other  by  any  Notarial  writing,  or  agreement 
between  them.  Moreover,  it  is  stated  at  the 
bar,  that  it  can  be  shewn  into  whose  hands  this 
large  Gem  passed  ;  if  so,  such  persons  (in  what- 
ever statidn  they  may  be)  can  be  examined  as 
witnesses.  And  the  rule  of  evidence  also  is  that 
"  omnia presumuntur  in  odium  spoUatoris,"  and 
where  a  person  of  humble  life  found  a  large 
gem,  and  gave  it  to  a  jeweller,  who  refused  to 
deliver  it  back,  or  to  produce  it,  the  jury  were 
told  to  presume,  and  give  the  value  of  a  gem 
of  the  highest  value  of  that  size.  Armory.  ». 
Belamirie,  1  Str.  505. 

As  to  the  Royalty,  it  will  be  time  enough  to 
decide  that  right  when  Government  comes  for- 
ward to  assert  such  a  claim.  [No.  6294  D.  C. 
Ratnapoora. 


455 


184S 


GMective 
Court  . 


Taxation     of 
Bills  o£  Costs. 


An  Advocate 
entitled  to  his 
fees  for  servi- 
ces rendered 
previously  as 
a  Proctor. 


January  6,  (O.  C.  S.) 

987, —  Taxation  of  Costs, 

Oa  reading  tbe  Petition  of  Geoege  William 

Edema  and   the    indorsement   of  the  District 

Judge  of  Kandy  upon  the  Bill  of  Costs  in  the 

Kandy  cases  Nos.  2156,    1373  and  16,880  the 

17,896  I7,6a0 
Judjies  are  unanimously  of  opinion  that  31r. 
Epema  is  entitled  to  charge  as  Proctor  for  ser- 
vices rendered  by  hira  in  that  capacity,  and  as 
Advocate  for  services  rendered  by  him  as  Advo- 
cate, since  his  admission  as  such. 

The  Judges  are  also  of  opinion  that  in  each  of 
the  cases  2 1 56  aud  16,880  Mr.  Edema  should  as 

17,986 
Advocate  be  allowed  only  £2  2  for  brief  fee,  and 
that  in  the  case  1373  the  Advocate's  retaining 

17,530 
fee  should  be  disallowed,  as  he  had  been  retain- 
ed in  it  befoi>e  he  became  an  Advocate,  and  the 
Registrar  is  directed  to  tax  the  said  Bills  accor- 
diugly.     (Coll.; 

September  26,  (C.  S.  T.) 
988. — Buller,  Q.  A  v.  BretopuUe  and  others. 

The  Judges  are  of  opinion  that  without  en- 
tering into  the  question  as  to  whether  the  Su- 
preme Court  can  give  specific  directions  to  the 
District  Court  to  give  judgment  in  any  manner 
therein  pointed  out,  it  is  better  to  amend  the 
order  in  its  present  form,  and  it  is  therefore 
decreed  that  the  piaintiff  is  entitled  to  recover 
from  the  Defendants  the  sum  of  <£229  and  costs, 
as  prayed  for  in  the  libel,  and  costs  of  Appeal. 
[No.  12,730  D.  C.  Colombo.  (Coll.) 
11,128 

Aovember  25,  (C-  S.   T.) 

089. — Nagate,  (uow  wife  of  anotherjv-  Wiuani/, 
(her  husband.) 
The  Judgment  of  the  Court  below  in  this  case    pioduction  of 
was  set  aside  on  both  the  points   reserved,  the    judgment  in 


Question  as  to 
power  of  Su- 
preme   Court 
to  give  direc- 
tions to  a  Dis- 
trict Court  to 
'  give  judg- 
ment' in  any 
particular 
manner. 


1846 


456 


CoUecUve 
Court. 

a  criminal 
case  is  not 
evidence  in  a 

civil  case  for 
a  plaintiff 
who  was  a 
witness  in 

such  criminal 


Judgment  of 
Police  Court 
set  aside  for 
gross  irregu- 
larity. 


District 
Courts  are 

vested  with  a 

discretionary 

power  in 
ordering  the 

attendance  of 
parties  to  a 
suit,  to  be 
examined, 

Lorenz's   Re- 
ports (1857) 

pp.  126-127.] 


Collective  Court  being  of  opinion,  Ist.  that  the 
judgment  in  the  Criminal  ease,  by  the  Police 
Court — in  which  the  plaintiff  gave  evidence  as 
a  witness  for  the  prosecution — cannot  be  evi- 
dence for  her  in  this  Civil  action.  (l.Soseoeon 
Evidence  102 — Areh.  Civil  Pleading  394 — i 
Gamp.  9  and  151—4  East  572—1.  Tatmt.  520.) 
2ndly.  that  the  Court  of  Eequests  has  not 
jurisdiction  in  anything  "  whereby  rigJitiinfu- 
ture  mayhehound."  And  in  this  case  the  plain- 
tiff seeks  to  establish  her  marriage  with  the  de- 
fendant, and  the  right  of  herself  and  child  to 
maintenance  thereunder.  [iVo,  1302,  G.  B. 
Jaffna.     (Coll.)* 

990, — JSiewelegette  v.  Dingerehamy  and  others. 

Where  the  complaint  or  charge  was  not  en- 
tered on  the  Kecord  Book,  nor  the  defendant 
called  on  to  plead  to  the  same,  as  required  by  the 
General  llules  and  Orders  for  regulating  the 
form  and  manner  of  proceedings  tp  be  observed 
in  the  Police  Court,  the  Collective  Court  set 
aside  the  judgment  of  the  Court  below,  for  gross 
irregularity.  [^No.  211,  P.  C.  Eatnapoora, 
(Coll.) 

Nov.  28,  (C.  S:  T.) 

99). — Don  Bastion  v.  Gr'ipps. 

The  District  Oourt  is  vested  with  a  discre- 
tionary power  of  ordering  the  attendance  of  a 
garty  to  be  examined  or  not,  as  it  may  consider 
the  examination  to  be  necessary,  and  looking 
to  the  reasons  given  by  the  plaintiff  for  requir- 
ing the  defendant's  examination  in  this  case  on 
the  renewed  motion,  and  before  this  Court,  there 
appears  no  sufficient  ground  for  the  same-  The 
Court  is  moreover  of  opinion  that  the  appeal 
from  that  Interlocutory  order  did  not  preclude 
the  District  Court  from  proceeding  on  to  trial 
as  fixed  for  the  next  day,  although   the  General 

*  But  the  5th  clause  of  Ordinance  10  of  1843  was 
expressly  repealed  by  theeubsequent  C.E  Ordinances. 


457 


1846 


bules  and    Orders  require  the   transmiasion  of 
Becords  with  as  little  delay  as  possible. 

Voet  says  (Lib  :  49  Fit  :  1.  c  :  8.)  *  Nbn  enim 
aliud  nos  per  appellationem  ab  interlocutoria 
Impeditur,  ulterior  cognito  judicis  injerioris, 
virca  eausam  principalem,  pendente  super  inter- 
tocuforUs  appellatione' ;  and  in  Courts  of 
Equity  in  England  the  general  rule  is,  that  an 
appeal  does  not  stay  proceedings  without  a 
specialgroundjand  order.  (^Crwynnev.  Lethhridge 
15  Ves.  585 — Suguenin  v,  Bas^  15  Ves.  180 
and  Sect.  16  Ves.  213  and  216—  Wood  v.  Milner 
1.  Jac.  and  W.  636,  and  King  of  Spain  v. 
Maehado  4.  Euas.  560.)  But,  with  a  view  to 
maintain  a  uniformity  in  the  practice  of  the 
Courts  on  this  matter,  the  Supreme  Court  is  of 
opinion  that  the  principle  which  appears  to  be 
laid  down  in  Sir  Charles  Marshall's  Notes  p. 
13,  should  be  adhered  to,  namely,  that  where 
the  Justice  of  the  case  requires  the  immediate 
settlement  of  the  point  or  points  raised  in  any 
Interlocutory  Order,  the  proceedings  should  be 
■stayed  to  allow  a  Judgment  on  the  sppeal 
therefrom. 

The  present  decree,  however,  cciniQot  be  sup- 
ported, as  it  is  not  only  founded  un  anerroceous 
view  of  the  Law  of  Bvideuee,  (See  Fhil.  Ev. 
2ndVol.  p,  299)  ;  but  because  the  District  Court 
ought  to  have  allowed  the  plaintiff's  motion  for 
a  postponementofthe  hearing  upon  his  affir- 
mation that  three  of  his  material  witnesses  to 
prove  malice  were  absent,  inasmuch  as  without 
eipreas  evidence  of  this  nature,  the  plaintiff 
could  not  'safely  proceed  to  trial^  although  he 
should  succeed  in  giving  sufficient  secondary 
evidence  of  the  letter  in  question,  which  he  was 
entitled  to  do. 

Both  appeals  having  been  brought  on  at  the 
same  time,  and  the  questions  raised  in  tbem 
being  in  some  measure  of  unusual  occurrence  in 
the  District  Courts,  the  costs  of  the  appeal  are 
ordered  to  be  costs  in  the  cause.  [No.  10,965 
i>.  C.  Galle  (Coll.) 


Collective 
Court. 

An  Appeal 
from  an  In- 
terlocutory 
order  need 
not  preclude 
the  Court 
from  proceed- 
inff  to  trial 
and  final 
judgment, 
except  where 
the  justice  of 
the  case  re- 
qmres  a  stay 
of  proceed- 
ings. 


Plaintiff  enti- 
tled to  a  post- 
ponement  on 
his  afSdavit 
that  certain 
of  his  mate- 
rial witnesses 
are  absent. 


Certain  rea- 
sons for  or- 
dering costs 
of  appeal  to 
be  costs  in 
the  cause. 


1846 


458 


Non  joindei- 
of  parties  to  a, 
suit — Costs 
on  amend- 
ment of 
I'leadings  in 
consequence 
thereof. 


Dec.  2,  (C.  S.  T.) 
992, — Andona,  widow,  and  others  v.  Bon  Pauloe. 

Tlie  decree  of  the  District  Court  was  amend- 
ed by  the  cause  being  ordered  to  stand  over, 
with  leave  to  tlie  plaintiffs  to  amend  their  libel, 
by  making  the  two  daughters  of  the  Istplaintiif 
by  her  second  marriage,  parties  to  the  suit. 

Per  Curiam. — On  objections,  for  want  of 
necessary  parties,  being  taken  at  the  bearing, 
the  District  Court  should  generally  allow  the 
cause  to  stand  over,  with  leave  to  amend  the 
pleadings ;  and  in  respect  to  costs,  they  should 
be  made  to  depend  upon  whether  the  objection 
could  have  been  taken  on  the  pleadings,,  and 
was  likely  to  have  been  known  to  the  opposite 
party  previous  to  the  trial,  in  which  case  tho 
costs  of  tlie  day  should  be  divided.  •  [No. 
36,917—33,216.  D.  C,  Colombo.  (Coll. 


A  prisoner 
not  having 
availed  him- 
self of  his 
right  to 
challenge    a 
juror    under 
age,  cannot, 
after  con- 
viction, 
move  in 
arrest    of 
judgment, 
on  that 
ground. 


Under   tlie 

Roman 
Dutch  Law, 
it  is  neces- 
sary before  a 


December  5,  (C.S.  T.) 

993. — The  Queen  v.  Gammegey  Aberan, 

convicted  of  Murder  at  Matura. 

The  Court  does  not  consider  that  the  objec- 
tion is  a  ground  for  a  motion  in  Arrest  of 
judgment  within  the  llth  Eule  of  the  General 
Rules  of  Praciice,  for  proceedings  before  this 
Court  in  its  Criminal  jurisdiction,  (\.  Chit-  Or. 

Lata  G61)  ;  and  the  Court  also  considers  that 
the  juror  being  under  the  age  of  21  years  was 
ground  for  challenge,  and  that  the  Prisoner 
not  having  availed  himself  of  that  right  at 
the  trial,  the  objection  comes  too  late.after  con- 
viction. Aing,  V.     Sutton.    8.  B.  and    C,  427. 

Hill,  V.  Tales.  12  East  229,  and  l.Chit.C.  L 
654  and  541,  (Coll.) 


994. — PayTcir  Lebbe  v.  Assa  Oemma  wife 

another. 

In  this  case  thePlaintiff  was  allowed  to  proceed 

with  the  suiton  obtaining  from  the  District Cuurt 

an  appointment  as  legal  guardian.  Tlie  costs  of 

the  Appeal  to  be  costs  in  the  cause.  And  Per  Cu- 


459 


1846  , 


BiAM.  ■'  The  practice  at  JaflPoa  appears  to  be 
liitlierto  unsettled  outlie  point,  whether  a  person 
could  sue  as  uext  friend  or  proohein  amy  for  an 
infant,  as  in  the  Courts  of  Equity  in  England^ 
witliout  being  appointed  by  the  Court  the  legal 
guardian,  or  curator  ad  litem  at  least,  which 
this  Court  considers  to  be  necessary  under  the 
Dutch  Law."  [No  4134,  D.  C.  Jafna.  (Coll.) 

995. — Sitnan  Appoo   and  others  v.  Bon  Louis 
and  another. 

Judgment.  That  the  Interlocutory  decree  of 
tlie  JJistrict  Court  of  Hamhantotte  of  the  21st 
day  of  October  1842,  be  amended  by  altering 
the  date  of  the  decree-of  the  Districi  Court  set 
aside  thereby,  from  '  1st  March  1842'  to  tlie  '7th 
September  1842',  and  that  the  said  Interlocutory 
decree,  when  so  amended,  be  entered  '  7iunc  pro 
tunc'  as  of  the  date  when  the  same  was  pro- 
nounced viz  ;  the  21st  October  1842. 

There  has  been  a  clear  mistake  in  the 
Interlocutory  decree  aforesaid  in  inserting 
the  date  of  the  first  decree  of  the  District  Court, 
whicii  had  been  previously  set  aside  by  the 
Supreme  Court,  in  lieu  of  the  second  decree  ; 
and  the  Court  ought  therefore  now  to  correct 
tliis  error  in  such  manner  as  is  likely  to  incur 
the  least  inconvenience  and  expense  to  the 
parties-    {No.  1230.  D.  C.  Hamhantotte  (Coll.) 

996. — Bon  Juanis  and  others  v,  Siman  de  Silva 
and  another. 
The  Supreme  Court  is  of  opinion  that  the 
gift  made  to  Andeya  and  Baleya  was  an  abso- 
lute gift,  and  that  the  'Injunction^  contained 
.igaiiist  the  sale  of  the  land — except  in  case  of 
very  urgent  necessity,  when  it  should  be  sold 
to  iLe  original  proprietor — must  be  considered 
to  be  only  directory  of  the  wishes  of  the  grantor 
on  that  subject,  but  not  as  a  condition  in  Law 
annexed  to  the  gift,  upon  the  breach  of  whicli, 
the  estate  of  the  donee  would  (letprtnine  or  lie 
forfVitod,  and  the  donor  or  his  lu  irs  have  a 
right  therein  to  re-enter  and  chiini  the  laud,  no 


Collective 
Court. 

person  could 
sue  on  be- 
half of  an 
infant  that 

he  should  he 

appointed 

iMrator  ad 

litem,,  (See 

Lorenz's 

Notes  on  Civil 
Practice  ) 

Correction  of 
an   error  and 
entry  of  a  de- 
cree '  nunc 
pro  tunc' 


►1846 


460 


Collective 
Cowrt. 


reversion  Laving  been  reserved  by  the  deed 
to  the  latter  for  that  purpose. — [No.  12,424!, 
n.  C,  Matura  CCollJ 


The  Queen 

T. 

BoMioo  Mo- 
Tummdo. 

Judgment  of 
D.  C.  dismiss- 
ing an  Infor- 
mation by  the 

Q.  A.  for 
breach  of  Ord. 

No.  12  of 
1840  set  aside, 
and  the  case 
remanded 
back  to  the 
D.  C.  for  fur- 
ther   investi- 
gation. 
Certain  evi- 
dence for  the 

Crown  led 
before  the  D. 
C.  held  suffi- 
cient primA 
facie  proof  of 
the  Crown's 
title  to  land, 
so  as  to  call 
on  the  Deft, 
to  rebut  such 

proof 

The  words  of 

the  Ordinance 

"  probable 


December  16th'  (C.  S.  T.) 
997. — Malhamt/  and  others  v  •  PuUttgooralte. 

The  defendant  could  not  adduce  in  evidence 
against  the  plaintiffs  in  the  present  suit  the 
judgment  in  the  former  case  6327,  as  the 
plaintiff's  were  not  parties  to  that  former  case, 
nor  do  they  claim  under  their  mother,  who  was 
the  plaintiff  therein,  and  suing  in  her  own  right 
and  behalf- [iVo.  16,884,  D.  C  Kmdy  (Coll.; 

Bec&mher  l^rd,  (C,  S.  T.) 

998.— TAe  Qiteen  v,  Hahihoo  Mohamadoo. 

[From  '  Murray's  Eeports,'  pp.  51  to  62.] 

This  was   an  lat'ormation   preferred    by   the 

Queen's  Advocate  under  and  for  breach  of  the 

Ordinance  No.   12  of  1840,   inasmuch  as  the 

defendant  did   'knowingly  and  unlawfully,  and 

'  without   probable  claim,  or  pretence  of  title, 

'  encroach  upon  and  take,  possession  of  the  piece 

'  of  Crown- land  called  Assedinnay  Watte-  of  the 

'  extent  of  half  an  acre,  and  of  iho  value  of  £10, 

'  situate  at  Gampola.' 

The  Information  was  laid  on  the  1st  clause  of 
the  Ordinance  which  enacts  '  That  it  shall  and 
'  may  be  lawful  for  the  District  Court,  upon 
'  Information  supported  by  affidavit^  charging 
'  any  person  or  persons  with  having,  without 
'  probable  olaim,  or  pretence  of  title,  entered 
'  upon  or  taken  possession  of  any  land  which 
'  belongs  to  Her  Majesty,  her  heirs  or 
'successors,  to  issue  its  summons  for  tbe 
'  appt  arance  before  it  of  the  party  or  par- 
'  ties  alleged  to  have  so  illegally  entered 
'  upon  or  taken  possession  of  such  laud, 
'  and  of  any  other  person  or  persons  whom 
'  it  may  be  necessary  or  proper  to  examine 
'asawiiness  or  witnesses,  on  tiie  hearing  of 
'  such  Information  ;  and  the  said  District  Court 
'  shall     proceed   in     a  summai'y    way    iu    the 


461 


1846.' 


'  pi'fsence  of  the  parties,  or  in  case  of  wilful 
'  absence  of  any  person  against  whom  any 
'  such  iDformatioQ  shall  have  been  laid,  then  in 
'  his  absence,  to  hear  and  determine  such  Infor- 
'  Diatiou ;  and,  in  case  on  the  bearing  thereof, 
'  it  shall  be  made  to  appear  by  the  examination 
'  of  the  said  party  or  parties,  or  other  sufficient 
'evidence,  to  the  satisfaction  of  such  District 
'  Court,  that  the  said  party  or  parties,  against 
'whom  such  Information  shall  have  been  laid, 
'  hath  or  have  entered  upon  or  taken  possession 
'  of  the  land  mentioned  or  referred  to  in  such 
'  Information,  vitiiout  any  probable  claim  or 
'  pretence  of  title,  and  that  such  party  or 
'  parties  hath  or  have  not  cultivated,  planted, 
'  or  otherwise  i^iprovcd  and  held  uninterrupted 
'  possession    jI   sueb    land   for    the  period   of 

•  thirty  years  or  upwards,'  [limited  to  five 
instead  of  thirty  years  by  Order  of  the  Privy 
Council  of  Wth  August  1841.]  '  then,  and 
'  not  otherwise  such  District  Court  is  hereby 
'  authorised  and  required  to  make  an  order, 
'  directing  such  party  or  parties  to  deliver  up 
'  to  Her  Majesty,  her  Heirs,  or  successors, 
'peaceable  possession  of  such  laud,  together 
'  with  all  crops  growing  thereon,  and  all  build- 

•  ings  and  other  immoveable  property  upon 
'  and  affixed  to  the  said  land,  and  to  pay  the 
'  costs  of  such  Information." 

The  Defendant  pleaded  not  guilty. 

The  1st  witness  called  for  the  Crown 
was  the  Cutcherry  Modliar,  who  stated  that  the 
Defendant  presented  a  Petition  to  the 
Government  Agent  accompanied  with  the 
translation  of  a  Notarial  Deed,  on  which 
he  relied,  as  proof  of  his  title  to  the 
land  in  question, — that  Gampola  was  generally 
reported  a  Eoyal  Village,  and  that  the  land  in 
question  was  within  its  limits.  The  second  wit- 
ness stated:  "I  know  the  piece  of  land  on 
'  which  the  Defendant  built  a  house  six  or  seven 
•months  ago.  The  land  had  been  in  the  occu- 
'pation  of  Ahamado  Fulle,  and  whenever 
'  kmakkan  was  sown  he  took  the  owner's  share. 


Collective 
Court. 

The  Queen, 

V. 

HaMbo  Moha- 
mado. 

claim  or  pre- 
tence of  title," 
opnstruedas 
requiring 
proof  of  a 
"  probable 
claim"  or  of  a 


pretence  of 
title." 


1846. 


462 


Collective 
Court. 

The  Queen 

V. 

Habibo  Moha- 
mado. 


'  He  perlbrmed  rajakaria  for  it.  On  seeing 
'  Defendant  building  a  house,  I  told  him  it  was 
'Crown  land;  he  said. he  purchased  the  land. 
'  It  is  not  within  the  limits  of  the  Royal  Vil- 
'liage,  but  there  are  Crown  lands  not  withiu 
'  those  limits.  The  people  of  the  Eoyal  village 
'  always  possessed  this  piece  of  land — no  dis- 
'  tinct  seivice  for  it.  It  was  waste  when  the 
'  Defendant  was  building  the  said  house.  Recol- 
'  lect  a  man,  I'Uchie,  built  a  house  on  it,  but  it 
'  fell  down — (it  was)  only  a  hut,  and  built  three 
'years  before  Defendant  built  his  house.  Pitchie 
'  never  lived  in  the  hut — it  stood  only  a  year. 
'  I  live  withiu  a  mile  of  the  land,  there  are  cofTcie 
'  bushes  on  the  land — where  does  not  coffde 
'  grow  ?  It  was  quite  waste  three  years  ago.  I 
'  know  T>on  Carolis  Appoo  who  occupies  the  ad- 
'  joining  land — who  got  a  grant  from  Govern- 
'mentforiton   payment.' 

Third  witness  I  kuow  the  piece  of  land.  I 
'did  not  cultivate  it,  but  allowed  others  to 
'  do  so  and  took  the  owner's  share,  conceiving 
'  I  had  a  right  to  it.  1  performed  service  for 
'  the  land  to  the  Ciowu.  I  possess  a  paddy 
'  field  belonging  to  the  Crown,  of  which  this  is 
'  an  appurtenance.  I  did  not  give  the  land  to 
'  Piteliie  or  to  Defendant.  I  have  not  taken 
'  any  produce  for  the  last  20  years,  nor  has  the 
'  land  been  cultivated  during  that  period.  De- 
'  fendant  did  not  cultivate  the  land,  but  built  a 
'hut  upon  it.  I  considered  the  land  to  be  my 
'  parveny  property.  My  ancestors  possessed  it, 
«  and  it  descended  to  me,  and  I  am  not  aware 
« that  the  Crown  has  any  right  to  it." 

The  evidence  of  the  Government  Surveyor 
shewed  that  the  land  was  '  claimed  by  the  vil- 
'  lagers  generally  ;'—  '  there  was  no  hut  ou 
'  the  land  when  I  surveyed  it  in  1843  ;  but 
'  hut  upon  it  now.     It  was  Hot  then  cultivated.' 

The  Notarial  Deed  '  B.'  filed  by  the  defen- 
dant is  dated  I4th  June,  1844  and  purports  to 
lie  granted  liy  Pitche  Mohamado  son  of  Pitche 
Tamby  : — '  I  have  this  day  bargained,  and  sold 


4-63 


1846. 


'  to  Mohamado  Lehhe  {alias)  Hahiboo  Mohamado 
'  a  garden  one  pela  in  extent,  with  all  the  plan- 
<  talion  thereon  as  included  in  the  Tamil  Title 
•  Deed  No.  575  attested  by  Lebhe  Saihoo,  Nota- 
'  ry  Public,  in  my  favor,  on  the  21st  September 
'  1840.' 

The  District  Judge  (7th  August  1846)  pro- 
nounced the  following  judgment :  *  The  Court 
'  does  not  consider  it  necessary  to  call  on  de- 
'  fendant  for  arty  defence — being  of  opinion  that 
'  it  has  not  been  proved  that  the  land  alleged  to 
'  have  been  encroached  upon  is  the  property  of 
'  the  Crown.  The  defendant  had  also  a  pretence 
'  of  title  under  Deed  '  B.'  filed.  The  evidence 
'  also  as  to  whether  the  land  be  uncultivated,  or 
■  unoccupied,  so  as  to  bring  the  case  within  the 
'  6th  clause  of  the  Ordinance,  is  contradictory 
'  and  unsatisfactory.  ,  The  Assessors  concur, 
'  and  the  Information  against  the  defendant  is 
'^dismissed.' 

This  Judgment  was  appealed  from  on  behalf 
of  the  Crown,  and  the  case  was  reserved  for 
Collective  decision. 

The  Deputy  Queen's  Advocate  (Mr.  H.  0. 
SeWy)  in  support  of  the  appeal :  The  object  of 
the  Ordinance  was  to  prevent  encroachment  on 
Crown  lands  generally  —not  Crown  waste  lands 
only  ;  and  the  first  section  of  the  Ordinance,  on 
which  this  Information  was  founded,  contained 
no  special  reference  to  waste  land,  whereas  it 
distinctly  contemplated  and  made  provision  for 
the  case  of  a  trespasser  having  'cultivated 
planted  or  otherwise  improved '  the  land 
■  he  had  taken  possession  of.  The  Crown 
had  a  right  whenever  a  trespass  was  committed 
on  land  it  claimed,  to  put  the  trespasser  to 
proof  of  his  title,  unless  he  had  'cultivated,  plant- 
edor  otherwise  improved,  and  lield  uninterrupted 
possession'  for  five  years.  The  proceeding  con- 
templated by  the  Ordinance  was  in  some  respects 
analagous  to  the  Information  of  Intrusion  in 
England,  where  until  the  Statute  of  21,  Jac.  h 
c.  14.,  the  defendant  was  bound  to  shew  his 


Collective 
Court. 

The  Qiteen 

V. 

Sabiho  Moha- 
maAo. 


1846. 


464 


Collective 
Court, 

The  Queen 
V,  ■ 
Sabibo  Moha- 
mad/}. 


title  specially,  nnd  could  not  in  auy  case  rely 
merely  on  his  possession,  however  long  ;  and 
unless  he  set  up  and  proved  a  title  in  himself, 
the  mere  fact  of  the  intrusion  vfould  only  be  en- 
quired of ; '  for  a  title  for  the  King  appears  upon 
the  Information,  if  no  title  appear  upon  record 
for  the  defendant.'  fChitty's  Prerogatives  of 
the  Crown,  f,  333)i  Since  that  Statute  how- 
ever, 20  years'  possession  by  the  defendant 
might  be-given  in  evidence  under  the  general 
issue,  and  the  defendant  need  not  plead  his 
title  specially  ;  in  which  case  if  such  possessioa 
was  proved,  he  was  entitled  to  retain  it,  until 
the  title  had  been  tried  and  found  for  the 
Crown.  Our  Ordinance  had  shortened  the 
period  from  20  years'  possession  to  6  years'  cul- 
tivation and  possession  ;  but  had  not  departed 
from  the  principle  which,  still  obtained  in 
England,  of  requiring  the  defendant  who  had 
been  less  than  twenty  years,  (or  with  us  less 
than  5  years)  in  possession,  to  plead  specially 
his  title,  by  assuming  the  title  in  the  Crown  as 
averred  in  the  Information, 'if  no  title  appear 
on  record  for  the  defendants.'  This  applied 
with  greater  force  to  lands  in  the  Kandyan  coun- 
try where,  as  was  well  known,  all  lands  were 
held  either  directly  or  indirectly  from  the 
sovereign,  on  tenure  of  service  called  Eajaharia, 
With  respect  to  waste  lands,  the  6th  clause  of 
the  Ordinance  specially  provided  that  irres- 
pective of  possession,  they  should  be  presumed 
the  property  of  the  Crown  until  the  contrary 
was  proved. 

la  the  present  case  the  Crown  had  given 
evidence  that  the  land  encroached  upon  was 
waste  and  uncultivated  ;  and  moreover,  that  „ 
whenever  at  long  intervals  it  had  been  cultivat- 
ed, the  cultivator  performed  Bajakaria  for  it, 
thus  admitting  the  right  of  the  Crown.  Such 
land  the  6ta  section  of  the  Ordinance  expressly 
declared  should  be  presumed  to  be  Crown  pro- 
perty. 


465 


1846. 


Tlie  defendant  had  therefore    to  shew,  either 
*&  probable  claim  or  pretence  of  title'  ;   or  five 
years'  cultivation  diid  uninterrupted  poasession. 
Of  the  latter  there  was  no  evidence  whatever ; 
and  with  respect  to  the   former,  the  defendant 
had  rested   satisfied    -with  filing    a   document, 
which  purported  to  be  a  Deed    conveying    this 
piece  of  land  to  him  liy  a  third  party.     But  that 
Deed  shewed  no  sort  of  title  in  the  alleged  ven- 
dor, and  was   a  modern  instrument  ;    so   that 
there  was  no  room    for    the   presumption   that 
there  had  existed  sometimes  a  grant  of  the  land 
to  such  vendor,  which  had  been    lost.     In  fact 
on  the  face  of  this  Deed   there    was    reason  to 
conclude  that  the  pretended  vendor    never  had 
any  title  at  all.     The  defendant  must  be  armed 
not  merely  with  a  pretence,  but  with  that  which 
amounted  to  a  probable  pretence,  of  title.     The 
grammatical  construction  of  the  sentence  shewed 
thut probable  applied  both  to  claim  &nd pretence. 
The  adjective  probable  referred  to    both  the  fol- 
lowing substantives,  and    if  a    claim   (which  is 
perhaps  something  more  than  a  pretence^  must 
be  a  probable  one,  which  was  undeniable,  surely 
a  pretence  must  be  a   probable    one  also.     The 
words  claim  or  pretence  in  the  Ordinance  were 
used  to  express  the    same    thing.    Indeed    the 
word  pretence  meant  claim.     Thus  Loche  used 
it,—'  Primogeniture    cannot    have     any     pre* 
tence  to  a  right   of  solely  inheriting    property 
or  power.*    If  then  a  claim  must  be  a  probable 
one,  it  seemed  unreasonable,  as  well  as  ungram- 
matical,  to  hold    that  a  mere  naked,  improbable 
pretence,  would  be  sufficient. 

'^0'^ probable  meant  'likely — having  more  evi- 
dence  than  the  contrary' — so  that  the  defend- 
ant  ought  to  shew  a.  prima  facie  case  of  title  as 
against  the  Crown.  He  must  have  an  apparent 
title — that  which  afforded  more  evidence  to  the 
mind  that  he  had  a  title,  than  the  contrary.  In 
followed  that  he  must  give  some  evidence  of 
title.  But  the  deed  produced  (supposing  it 
proved)  furnished  no  evidence  per  te  as  against 


Collective 
Court. 

The  Queen, 

V. 

Sahiho  Moha- 
,  mado. 


1846. 


46G 


Collective 
Court, 

The  Queen 

V, 

Habiho  MoJux- 


the  Crown,  of  any  title  in  tbe  defendant's  ven- 
dor, and  being  of  quite  recent  date,  raised  no 
presumption  of  title  in  either  of  them,  buk  rather 
the  reverse,  foriooking  at  the  date  and  wording 
of  the  Deed,  and  the  facts  disclosed  in  evidence, 
it  seemed  not  improbable  that  the  Deed  had 
been  got  up  expressly  for  the  purposes  of  this 
case. 

E.  MoEGAN  (Advocate)  contra : — It  is  unne- 
cessary to  enter  into  the  consideration  of  the 
question  whether  the  prerogative  of  the  Crown 
insisted  upon,  extended  to  the  Kandyan  Dis- 
tricts ;  for  even  if  it  did,  the  provisions  of  the 
Ordinance  ander  which  the  present  proceedings 
were  had,  excluded  the  exercise  of  it.  The 
Royal  Prerogative  might  be  abridged  by  grants, 
&c.  made  to  the  inhabitants  of  a  conquered 
country.  (Chittt's  Prerogative  p.  33.)  Al- 
though in  an  action  brought  under  the  common 
law,  irrespective  of  the  Ordinance,  prerogative 
rights  might  prevail,  yet  where  the  Crown  in- 
stituted proceedings  under  the  Ordinance  and 
sought  the  benefit  of  it,  its  provisions  must  be 
strictly  conformed  to,  and  the  peculiar  form  of 
proceeding  it  prescribed,  adopted.  In  order 
to  entitle  the  Crown  to  judgment  under  this 
Ordinance,  the  first  clause  requires  that  it  should 
be  shewn  (1)  That  the  defendant  entered  upon 
and  took  possession  of  Crown  land  ;  (2)  that 
the  defendant  had  no  probable  claim  or  pretence 
of  title  to  the  land  ;  and  (3)  that  the  defend- 
ant had  not  cultivated,  planted,  or  otherwise 
improved  and  possessed  the  land  for  five  years 
and  upwards.  The  evidence  shewed  that  these 
requisites  had  not  been  complied  with.  Instead 
of  shewing  that  the  land  belonged  to  the  Crown, 
it  was  shewn  by  the  third  witness  called  by  the 
Prosecutor  that  the  land  was  formerly  his  pro- 
perty, he  having  inherited  it  from  his  ancestors. 
The  defendant  claimed  under  this  very  witness 
— this  shewed  a  probable  claim,  and  the  Deed  in 
defendant's  fayor  produced  by  the  D.  Q.  A.  shew- 
ed, in  addition,  a  pretence  of  title.    The  '  pro- 


467 


1846. 


bable    claim'   stood    contradistinguished    from 
'pretence  of  title.'     The  former  seeming  to  con- 
fer claim   founded  on  possession  or  otherwise, 
irrespective  of  any  title  arising  from  sale,  gift, 
bargain,  &c.  evidenced  by  a  vpriting,  which  falls 
under  the  second  head  of  a  '  pretence  of  title.' 
Hence,  where  there  is  no  writing  to  substantiate 
the  right,  it  is   necessary  to  shew    not   a  naked 
claim  only,  but  a  probable  one ;  whereas,  where 
there  is  a  writing,  which  is  a  higher  species  of 
evidence  than  oral  testimony,  the  adjective  pro- 
hahle  was  dropped,    and  a  naked  pretence   was 
deemed  sufficient.     The  Title  Deed  in  favor  of 
thfe  defendant  more  than  answers  this  require- 
ment.    With  regard   to  the  third   requisitei   it 
clearly     appears     that     the     defendant      did 
cultivate    and     possess    the    land     for     more 
than    five    years.     The   term   is    general    and 
not  restricted    to    any    particular    period    of 
time.     The    2nd     clause    of    Ordinance     No. 
8  of  1834  requires  that  the  10  years  necessary 
to  constitute  prescriptive  title,  should  be  'Hen 
years  preceding  the  commencement  of  the  suit" 
— there  is  no  such  provision  here.     Tlie  Crown 
having  failed  to  prove  these  requirements  (and 
the  necessity  to  prove  them  is  undoubted  when 
it  is  considered  that  such  proof  must  be  adduced 
even  in  case   of  the  '  wilful  absence'  of  the  de- 
fendant) the  defendant  is  entitled  to  judgment. 
The  objections  urged  related  to  matters  of  fact, 
and  the  Supreme  Court  was  always  loath  to  in- 
terfere with  the  finding  of  a  District  Court  as 
to  facts.     It  should  be  more  scrupulous  to  do  so 
in  the  present    instance,   because   by   the  Or- 
dinance the  Crown  is  entitled  to  judgment   on 
proving  the  different  matters   before  mentioned 
to  the  '  satisfaction  of  the   District  Court,'  and 
'  not  otherwise.'     Moreover  the   remedy   being 
a  summary  one,  it  caused  considerable  hardship 
to  the  defendant,    whereas   no  kind  of  injury 
could  accrue  to  the  Crown,  because  the  2nd  cl. 
reserves  to  it. the  right,  in  case  of  the  dismissal  of 
an  Information,  to  bring  another  action  to  try 


Collective 
Court. 

The  Queen 

V. 

Sabiba  Moha- 
mado. 


1846, 


4G8 


Collective 
Court, 

The  Queen 

V. 

Babibo  Moha- 
mado. 


the  riglit  of  property  in  the  ordinary   course  of 
law. 

The  Supreme  Court  (23rd  December  1846,) 
pronounced  the  following  judgment  (which  was 
unanimous  except  on  one  point,  viz.  the  con- 
struction of  the  words  of  the  Ordinance,  •  pro- 
bable claim  or  pretence  of  title', — SlarJeJ.  hold- 
ing that  the  Ordinance  required  a  'pretence  of 
title'  merely,  and  not  a  'probable  pretence  oi 
title.')  :— 

'  The  Court  is  of  opinion  that  this  case 
'  should  go  back  for  further  investigation,  the 
'  Crown  having  suffioiemtly  proved  its  right  to 
'  the  land  to  require  the  defendant  to  rebut  it 
'  by  some  evidence,  either  (1)  of  his  having  a 
'  probable  claim  or  pretence  of  title  to  the  land, 
'  or  (2)  of  his  having  cultivated}  planted,  or 
'  otherwise  improved  or  held  possession  thereof 
'  for  the  period  of  five  years. 

'  In  the  argument  of  this  case,  the  D.  Q-  A. 
•  relied  much  upon  '  the  Prerogative  right  on  an 
'  Information  of  Intrusion,  of  putting  the  de- 
'  fendant  on  shewing  his  title  specially'  ;  (Chit- 
'  ty's  Prerog.  p  333.)  but  it  appears  to  be  unne- 
'  cessary  for  the  Court  to  decide  that  important 
'  question,  of  how  far  this  pi'erogative  right  ex- 
'  tends  to,  and  can  be  enforced  in,  the  old  Kandy-i 
'  an  Districts,  because  it  is  clear  that  this  Or- 
'  dinance  has  prescribed  a  diflferent  mode  of 
'  proceeding  in  summary  proceedings  under  it, 
'  for  obtaining  the  possession  of  Crown  land  en- 
'  croached  on. 

'  Looking  to  the  provisions  of  the  Ordinance 
'  respecting  the  Information,  and  the  affidavit 
'  in  support  thereof,  it  would  seem  that  both 
'  need  only  charge  a  person  or  persons,  with 
'  having  without  probable  claim  or  pretence  of 
'  title  entered  upon  or  taken  possession  of  any 
'  land  belonging  to  Her  Majesty,  Her  Heirs  and 
'  Successors,  and  that  therefore  the  Crown  need 
'  adduce  evidence  only  to  that  effect ;  as  accord- 
'  ing  to  the  general  rule,  the  complainant  is 
'  required  to  prove  only  material  and  necessary 


469 

'  averments  in  Ibe  Libel  or  luformalion,  and 
'  any  matter  of  justiflcdtion  should  come  from 
'  the  defendant ;  but  the  Legislature  in  this 
'  Ordinaace,  has  thought  proper  to  specially 
'  declare  respecting  these  Informations  for  pet- 
'  ty  encroachments,  that,  in  case  on  the  hearing 
'  thereof  it  shall  be  made  to  appear,  by  the 
'  examination  of  the  party  or  parties,  or  other 
'  sufficient  evidence  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
'  District  Court — (1)  that  the  party  had  entered 
'  or  taken  possession  without  any  probable 
'  claim  or  pretence  of  title  (2)  that  such  party 
'  had  not  cultivatad,  planted,  or  cthorwise  im- 
'  proved  and  held  uninterrupted  possession  of 
'  such  land  for  the  period  ot  five  years  or  up- 
'  wards,  '  then  and  not  otherwise,'  the  Distrit* 
'  Court  may  order  the  defendant  to  deliver  up 
'  possession  ;  Now  as  tlie  D.  C,  is  authorised 
'  to  proceed  in  the  absence  of  the  defendan  t 
'  ami,  iu  such  event,  it  is  not  declared  that  less 
'  evidence  would  suffice,  the  Court  is  of  opinion 
'  that  as  the  D.  C.  can  give  no  judgment  iu 
'  favor  of  the  Crown  without  sufficieut  evidence 
'  before  it  upon  the  above  two  points,  it  follows 
'  necessarily  tbat  the  onus  proiandi  in  these 
'  summary  proceedings  lies  on  the  Crown  to 
'  adduce  prima  facie  evidence  on  both  those 
'  points. 

'  In  the  present  case  the  Court  is  of  opinion 
'  that  the  Crown  has  adduced  such  evidence, 
•  aud  that  although  not  free  from  discrepancy 
'  and  objection,  and  liable  also  to  be  wholly 
'  rebutted  by  proof  on  the  defendant's  part, 
'  the  evidence  as  it  stands,  sufficiently  proves 
'  the  land  to  belong  to  Her  Majesty,  and  to 
'  have  not  been  cultivated  or  possessed  for  five 
'  years,  so  as  to  call  on  the  defendant  to  rebut 
'  such  proof,  and  on  his  failure  to  do  so,  to  ad- 
'  judge  the  defendant  to  deliver  up  to  her 
'  Majesty  the  peaceable  possession  of  the  said 
'  laud. 

'  The  evidence  of  the  LeJcame,  that  he  poss- 
'  esses  a  Government  paddy  field  to  which  this 


184.C. 


Tka   Queen 

V. 

Ha6i6o  Moha. 
mado. 


184.6. 


470 


Collective 
Court. 

The  Queen 

V. 

Sdbibo  Moha- 
mado. 


'  land  is  an  appurtenance,  might  1)6  egpecially 
'  noticed  on  this  point,  and  his  not  Laving  taken 
'■  the  produce  of  this  land  for  twenty  years 
•  (though  claimed  by  him),  and  its  not  having 
'  been  cultivated  for  that  period,  tend  to  shew 
'  that  it  must  be  considered  as  chena  or  waste 
'  land,  which,  under  the  6th  el.,  belongs  to  the 
'  Crown  until  the  contrary  be  proved. 

'  Then,  as  to  the  possessionlfor  five  years  and 
'  upwards.  It  is  in  evidence  that  the  Lehame 
'  never  gave  the  land  to  Pitche  (the  alleged 
'  Vendor  to  defendant)  or  to  the  defendant ; 
'  that  Pitche  built  a  hut  thereon  about  three 
•years  before  the  defendant  ;  that  he  never 
'  lived  in  it  ;  and  it  stood  only  for  a  year  ;  that 
'  the  defendant  built  his  house  6  or  7  months 
'  ago,  and  that,  at  the  time  the  defendant  was 
'  building  the  house,  it  was  waste  land, — and 
'  the  Koralle  then  told  him  it  was  Crown  land  ; — 
'  as  to  the  coffee  bushes  growing  on  the  land 
'  here  and  there,  they  may  have  been  sown  by 
'  the  birds,  or  put  in  when  the  but  was  built  by 
'  Pitche  and  abandoned  therewith  ;  and  without 
'  any  proof  of  their  being  planted,  their  age, 
'  culture,  or  exclusive  possession  of  the  pro- 
'  duce  thereof,  the  Court  cannot  consider  them 
'  as  sufficient  evidence  of  the  garden  having  been 
'  planted,  improved-  or  cultivated  for  the  period 
'  of  five  years  within  the  Ordinance. 

'  The  only  remaining  point  is  the  defendant 
'  having  a  ^pretence  of  title,'  under  the  deed  '  B' 
'  filed,  as  held  by  the  District  Judge ;  but 
'  whether  he  (defendant)  has  or  not  still  remains 
'  to  be  proved  in  the  opinion  of  this  Court. 

'  No  evidence  has  yet  been  taken  in  support 
'  of  the  Deed  itself,  and  although  the  D,  Q.  A. 
'  has  for  the  sake  of  argument  (to  get  the 
'  opinion  of  the  Court  as  to  the  effect  of  such 
'  deed  being  produced  and  proved  in  evidence,) 
'  admitted  if,  the  Court  considers  such  a  deed 
'  being  proved,  (when  viewed  as  it  ought  to  be 
'  with  all  other  facts  and  circumstances  in 
'  evidence  before  the  Court),  ought  not  to  be  in 


471 


iS'Je 


'  itself  held  a  probable  claim  or  pretence  of  title 
'  within  the  true  meaning  and  intention  of  the 
'Ordinance,  without  some  further  proof  of  title 
'by the  defendant. 

'  JProbable'  is  that  which  has  more  of  evidence 
'  for  than  against  it  ; — which  is  more  likely  to 
'  be  true  and  substantial,  than  false  and  unfound- 
'  ed  ;  and  a  majority  of  the  Judges  think  that 
'  'probable'  appears  in  this  sentence  to  ba 
'  equally  applicable  to  '  pretence  of  title'  as  to 
'  'claim,'  because  the  former  cannot  be  construed 
■  in  its  bad  sense.  It  is  a  general  rule  that 
'  where  the  title  to  property  comes  in  question, 
'  the  exercise  of  a  summary  jurisdiction  by  a  Jus- 
'  tice  of  the  Peace  is  ousted.  (Burns'  Justice.  Vol. 
'  \,p.  333  ;  title,  Conviction)  ;  but  it  is  also  held 
'  that  this  rule  ought  not  to  be  so  extended  as 
'  to  enable  an  offender  to  arrest  the  summary 
'jurisdiction  by  a  mere  fictitious  pretence  of 
'  title,  or  an  assertion  of  right,  where  the  party's 
'  own  shewing,  or  other  manifest  circumstances, 
'  proves  the  claim  to  be  groundless.  The 
'  whole  sentence  ought  moreover  to  be  taken  to- 
'getherand  judged  by  its  context,  and  then 
'  the  words, '  probable  claim  or  pretence  of  title' 
'  will  amount  closely  to  '  colourable  title.* 
'In  Hunt  \s.  Andrews,  (3,  B.  &  C.  846.)  which 
'was  au  action  for  a  penalty,  Chief  Justice 
'  Ahhot  said, '  It  has  been  held  however,  that  in 
'an  action  brought  to  recover  a  penalty,  it  is 
'  BufBcient  for  the  defendant  to  shew  that  ha 
'  was  acting  under  the  appointment  of  a 
'  person  who  has  a  reasonable  ground  of  title 
'  to  the  manor,  for  that  is  what  1  understand  by 
'  the  words  colourable  title''  ;  so,  in  a  similar 
'  case,  Bushworth  vs.  Craven  (MeClell-  E.  422.) 
'  Graham,  £,  said  '  But  the  Court  requires  the 
'  party  to  shew  some  colourable  title,  that  is, 
'  as  I  understand  it,  some  prima  facie  evidence, 
'  affording  a  Jair  presumption  of  title,  in  tlie 
'  person  claiming  it' ; — and  in  the  first  mentioned 
'case,  the  Court  held  that  proof  of  a  deed  of 
'  purchase,    reciting  prior  deeds  of  conveyance, 


Collective 
Court. 

The  Queen, 

V. 

Sabilo  Moha- 
mado. 


18-46 


472 


CoUectire 
Court, 

The  Queen 

T. 

Babibo  Moha- 
mado. 


'  (which  were  not  produced  with  it),  did  not 
•shew  a  colourable  title,  when  viewed  with 
■  evidence  of  title  from  the  opposite  party 
'  repudiating  such  colourable  title,  and  having 
'  a  tendency  also  to  prove,  that  the  party  claim- 
'  ing  a  right  ought  to  have  known  that  he  had 
^  no  title  whatever. 

'  In  the  present  stage  of  this  case,  the  Court 
'  can,  in  justice  to  the  defendant,  express  no 
'  final  opinion  whether  he  has  or  has  not  bond 
'■fide  a  colourable  title.  It  considers  the  case 
'  to  have  been  wrongly  stopped,  and  that  the 
'  District  Court  should  have  called  on  the  defen- 
'  dant  for  his  defence  :  the  Judgment  is  accard- 
'ingly.sei  asides  and  the  case  remanded  back 
*  for  further  investigation'.  [TSTo.  6108.  D.  C. 
'  Xandi/.'] 


Godinho 

V. 

Be  Koning. 

A  Grant  of 
land  to  'the 
Chuioh.  of 
'  Saint  de 
Croos,'  with- 
out naming  a 
Trustee,  is 

valid. 
The  Incum- 
bent who  is 
appointed 
Manager   '  of 
the  Church 
and  property 
thereof  can 
maintain  an 
action  under 
such '  1  'eed. 
The  English 
Statutes  of 


December  2Srd,  (C.  S.  T.) 

999'— Godinho,  vs-  DeKoning. 
[From  '  Murray 'sEepoi'ts' — pp.  52- 


-65,] 


In  this  case  certain  land  was  seized  under  a 
Writ  of  Sequestratioa,  as  the'  property  of  the 
defendant  ;  but  the  plaintiff  opposed  the  sale 
thereof  on  the  following  grounds  : — 

(1),  That  the  plaintiff  was  'the  presiding 
'  Koman  Catholic  Missionary  at  Batticoloa, 
'  and  Manager  of  the  Church  and  property 
'  thereof.' 

(2).  That  the  Paddy-field  in  question  '  was 
'lawful  purchased  property  belonging  to  the 
'  Church  of  Saint  de  Oroos  oi'  JBatficaloa,' a.a 
'  appears  by  the  Title  Deed  dated  the  3rd  No- 
'  vember  1807,  marked  'A.'  " 

(3),  That  the  said  Church  "  had  possession 
'  of  the  land,  as  per  Title  Deed  thereof,  ever 
'  since  the  purchase.' 

The  Title  Deed  produced,  which  was  execut- 
ed by  a  private  party,  "  sold,  assigned,  and 
transferred  unto  the  Church  of  Saint  de 
CrooS)'  the  land  in  question,  '  for  and  in  con- 
'  sideration  of  the  sum  of    Bdh,    50,  which 


473 


1846 


amount  of  Sds.  50  baa  been  fully  received  by 
me." 

The  defendant  excepted  to  the  Title  of  the 
plaintiff  '  inasmuch  as  the  supposed  olah  Deed 
'filed  does  not  exhibit  in  itself  the  essential 
*  requisites,  expressing  sufficiently  the  proper 
'  name  or  names  of  any  person  or  persons,  the 
'  Grantee  of  the  plaintiff's  ancestors  or  prede- 
'  eessors,  to  make  a  good  Title.' 

The  District  Court  (2ith  August  1844)  dis- 
missed the  plaintiff's  application  to  have  the 
laud  released  from  seizure — being  of  opinion 
that  the  olah  Deed  produced  was  not  a  legal 
Deed,  inasmuch  as  (1),  The  Church  alone,  and 
no  Trustees  were  named  in  it,  consequently 
there  was  no  person  able  to  be  contracted  with  ; 
and  (2).  There  was  no  one  to  deliver  to,  and  no 
delivery  could  therefore  have  taken  place  under 
the  Deed. 

The  plaintiff  appealed,  and  the  case  came  on 
at  Jaffna  on  the  \Sth  July  1846,  and  was  then, 
by  the  Judge  on  Circuit,  reserved  for  Collisction 
decision. 

The  Queen's  Advocate  (Mr,  Buller)  in  sup- 
port of  the  appeal :  The  appellant,  as  Incum- 
bent and  manager  of  the  Church  and  property 
thereof  had  a  title  to  sue; — if  he  had  not,  the 
Grant  to  the  Church  was  void,  and  no  religi- 
ous body  in  this  Island  could  maintain  its 
rights.  This  is  the  first  time  the  doctrine  of 
the  District  Court  Judge  was  mooted  in  Ceylon. 
Here,  from  time  immemorial,  the  terms  of 
Grants  to  Temples  Have  been  "  to  the  Temple," 
not  "  to  the  Priest  and  his  successors"  ;  and 
the  Supreme  and  District  Courts  have  fre- 
quently recognised  such  Grants  as  valid.  The 
English  Law  on  this  point  was  not  in  force  in 
Ceylon  ;  but  even  in  English  law,  with  aU  its 
technicalities,  by  that  branch  of  it  which  regu- 
lated the  operation  of  Deeds  for  charitable  pur- 
poses, this  Grant  would  be  held  good,  (Koberts, 
On  WilJs) 


Collective 
Court. 


Z)e  Koning. 


Mortmain  do 
not  extend  to 
the  Colonies. 
Dutch  Law 
restricting 
donations  of 
this  descrip- 
tion, not 
acted  on  by 
English  Go- 
vernment, in 
Ceylon. 
The  Butch 
Civil  Law 
does  not  re- 
cognise the 
technical  dis- 
tinction of 
the  English 
Law  in  con- 
struing Deeds 
andConti-acts 
differently 
from  Wills. 


1845 


474 


CoUeotive 
Court. 

0odinho 

V. 

De  Kojiing. 


Acting  Chief  Justice,  (Mr.  Carr) — There  is 
no  doubt  as  to  Wills. 

The  Q,  .4.— Then  all  Deeds  for  charitable- 
purposes  stand  on  the  same  footing  as  Wills. 

A.  C-  J. — There  is  no  delivery  in  Wills. 

The  Q.  A, — There  was  delivery  in  this  case 
to  the  Incumbent  ;  though  in  gifts  ad,  pias 
causasi  the  presence  of  the  donee  to  accept  is 
not  necessary  to  complete  the  transfer.  The 
English  Courts  are  very  liberal  in  construing 
Charitable  Trust's.  {Bacon's  Alridgement,  i. 
p.  584).  Misnoniars  will  not  prevent  the 
operation  of  a  Deed,  provided  it  contains,  other- 
wise, enough  to  shew  who  is  meanti 

Sta~]c  J: — referred  to  the  Ordinance  No  2  of 
1840  as  evidence  of  the  customary  law  of  this 
Colony  to  grant  lands  to  '  Temples.'* 

The  Q.  A. — In  a  recent  prosecution  for  theft 
of  property  belonging  to  a  Temple,  OliphantC. 
J.  directed  that  the  stolen  goods  should  be  laid 
as  the  property  of  '  the  Temple,' 

The  Supreme  Court '  on  the  23rd  December 
1846',  set  aside  the  Judgment  of  theD.  C.  in 
the  following  terms  : — '  The  Plea  is  over-ruled 
'  with  Costs,  and  the  defendant  is  ordered  to 
'  answer,  within  such  time  after  this  order  shall 
'  have  been  notified  to  her,  as  the  D.  C.  may 
«  appoint. 

'  The  Supreme  Court  is  of  opinion  that 
'  according  to  the  prevailing  law  and  usage  in 
'  this  Colony,  Deeds  in  this  form,  adpiosusus, 
•  are  valid,  and  that  the  plaintiif  as  the  '  Itoman 
'  Catholic  Missionary  at  Batticaloa,  and  the 
'  Manager  of  the  Church  and  property  thereof,' 
can  mainiain  this  action  on  such  Deed,  if  duly 
proved. 

'  The  Statutes  of  Mortmain  do  not  extend  to 
'  the  Colonies  of  Great  Britain.  (^.BurgejG.L.AU. 
'  Genl.  vs.  Stewart,  2.  Mes,  143.);  and  the  Dutch 


*  The  Ordinance  No.  2  of  1840  was  disallowed  by 
the  Queen.  See  however  Proclamations  of  21st 
Novemhey  1818,  and  18th  Se;ptember  1819.— ■£<?. 


18-16 


Law  restricting  douafcions  of  tbis  descriplioD, 
'  {Voet,  lib.  sviii.  tit,  1 — 2 ;  and  Van  Leeuwen, 
'  p;  266 ;  and  also  2.  Surge,  C.  L.  p.  455.)  do 
'  not  appear  to  have  been  acted  on  or  enforced 
•by  the   English   Government   in  tbis   Island. 

•  {Begulaiion  iv.  of  1806).*  By  the  Kandyan 
« Proclamation  [previously  referred  to]  all  dona- 
'  tions  and  bequests  of  land,  however,  to  the  use 
'  of  any  Temple  '  whether  Wihare,  Dewale,  or 
'  otherwise,'  are  restrained,  without  license  from 
'  the  Governor  ;  and  fiom  the  recital  it  appears 
'  that  it  was  theretofore  customary  for  suchcloua- 
'  tions  to  be  made  with  the  consent  and  license 
'  of  the  Sovereign's  authority  : — But  the  Ordi- 
'  nance  (commonly  called  the  Mortmain  Ordin- 
'  ance),  No.  2,  of  1840,  for  extending  through- 
'  out  the  Island  these  provisions,  aud  '  to  lestrain 
''  gifts  or  dispositions  of  lands  for  religious  pur- 

•  poses,'  was  disallowed  by  Her  Majesty. 

'Evom  Yiner's  Abridgment,  tit  'Grant'  4,  it 
'  seems  that  from  ancient  times  a  Grant  ^  Deo  et 
'  EeehsicB,  was  good,  or  if  a  man  gives  lands  per 
'  dedi  et  Cancessi  Ecclesiaa  de  i>,'  this  goes  to 
'  the  parson  and  his  successors,  and  this  con- 
'  struction  now  prevails  in  Wills,  where  the  ia- 
'  tention  only  of  the  Devisor  is  regarded ;  and  it 
'  will  therefore  suffice  in  Wills,  if  by  the  des- 
•  cription  the  meaning  and  intention  of  the  De- 
'  visor  is  apparent ;  thus  a  devise  '  Ecclesioe 
'  sancti  Andrea  de  S,'  would  be  a  good  dona- 
'tiou  by  "Will  to  the  Corporation  or  the 
'Parson  of  the  said  Church,  and  his  suo- 
'cessors,  'for  such  description  was  suffici- 
*ent  in  a  Will  to  express  the  Parson  of 
'  the  Church  and  his  successors,  because  though 
'  not  named  in  the  devise,  he  was  comprehended 
'  in  it,'  (Powel  On  Devises,  Vol.  1,  p,  338. ;  10 
'  Co.  K  R.  57-60).  In  the  Dutch  Civil  Law  the 
'  technical   distinction   of  the  English  Law,  in 

*  See  also  BegulaUm,  v.  of  1829  and  10  Geo.  iv  .e  7, 
■;  For  the  relief  of  His  Majesty's  Roman  Catholic  sub- 
jects."—JJcJ, 


Collective 
Court. 


1846 


476 


Collective 
Court. 

Godinho 

De  Koning. 


Unnanse 

V. 

Maha  Naike 
Unnanse- 

Deceased 
party  to  a 
suit  has  no 
right  to   pro- 
ceed tharein, 

until  he  is 
made  a  party 
defendant  by 
an  Order  of 
Court. 
Superan- 
nuated Judg- 
ments must 
be  revived. 


'  conatiuing  Deeds  aad  Contracts  differently 
'  from  Wills,  is  not  recognised,  but  the  iuten- 
'  tion  is  prefeired.  (Yandef linden,  p.  192).  A 
'  Deed  therefore  is  not  avoided  by  any  misnomer 
'  of  the  Donee,  provided  the  intention  appear 
'  sufficiently  clear  and  Certain." — [No  9,523.  D. 

C.  BatticaiochJ 

lOOO. —  Unnanse,  \  Maha  Naihe  Unnanse, 

[Prom    '  Murray's  Eeports' — pp.  65—67.] 

This  was  a  long   pending  case,   the   original 

action   having   been    instituted  in   1S33,   and 

delayed   in  consequence   of  the     loss   of    the 

Hecord  and  other  causes. 

It  was  a  suit  for  the  recovery  of  certain  land 
of  considerable  value  claimed  as  belonging  to  the 
Temple  'MarasanaWihare.'  On  the  5th  of  August 
1834,    the  plaintiff  obtained  Judgment  in  the 

D.  C.  vfhich  was  affirmed  in  appeal  on  the  12th 
Aiogust  1835.  The  defendant  then  intimated  his 
intention  to  appeal  to  the  King  in  Council,  but 
whilst  inquiries  were  in  progress  to  ascertain 
the  value  of  the  property  in  dispute,  in  reference 
to  the  Appeal  to  tlie  King,  the  Eecord  was  lost. 
In  this  state  of  matters  the  plaintiff  applied  for 
and  obtained  aWrit  of  Sequestration  by  virtue  of 
which  he,  on  1st  Aipril  I84i0.  sequestered  the 
crop  of  the  said  land,  which  sequestration  was 
still  in  force  when  the  case  came  on  in  Appeal, 

The  original  defendant  having  died,  his  re- 
•  presentative  Induvellegodde  Unnanse,  on  the 
23rd  April  1846,  moved  the  D.  C  to  dissolve 
the  Sequestration,  as  the  plaintiff  had  taken  no 
steps  in  the  case  since  April  1840.  With  this 
motion  the  present  defendant  filed  his  affida- 
vit, that  he  '  is  the  lawfully  constituted  exe- 
'  cutor  of  the  estate  of  the  deceased  defendant, 
'.and  that  this  affirmant  on  the  death  of  the  said 
'  deceased,  became  the  defendant  in  the  said 
'  suit,  as  the  Executor  as  aforesaid,  and  had  the 
'  conduct  and  management  of  the  same  in  that 
'  Capacity  ;  and  further  that  he  is  the  present 
'  Incumbent  of  the  Temple  Marasana  Wihare.' 


47'/ 


TUe  D.  C.  on  the  2ith  April  1846,  rejected 
the  motion  with  Costs,  being  of  opinion  that 
the  plaintiff  ought  not  to  suffer  from  the  loss  of 
the  Record,  but  that  he  was  entitled  to  reap  the 
fruits  of  the  judgment  in  his  favor. 

Against  this  Order   the  defendant  appealed. 

iJ.  Morgan  (Advocate)  was  heard  in  support 
of  the  appeal, 

J,  Stewart  (D.  Q.  A.)  appeared  for  the  Kes- 
pondent. 

On  the  23rd  December  1846,  the  Supreme 
Court  aifirmed  (though  on  different  grounds) 
the  decision  of  the  District  Court  rejecting 
the  motion  : — 

'It  is  considered  and  adjudged  that  the  Inter- 
'  loeutoryOrder  of  the  24th  April  1846  be  affirm' 
'  ed  as  to  the  motion  being  rejected  with  (Jests. 

'  The  Supreme  Court  is  of  opinion  that  Indu- 
'  velleqodde  Uhnanse  cannot,  until  he  is  sub- 
'  stituted  in  the  place  of  the  late  defendant,  by 
'an  Order  of  the  District  Court,  maintain  any 
'motion  to  set  aside  the  present  sequestration  as 
'  irregularly  issued  or  enforced,  because  he  has 
^  no  persona  standi  in  the  cause  to  do  so. 

'  tTpon  inquiry  the  Supreme  Court  fiads  that 
'it  has  been  wrongly  stated  at  the  Bar,  that  it 
•  is  the  prevailing  practice  in  the  D.  C.  of 
'Colombo  not  to  revive  a  judgment  unless  ex- 
'ecution  has  been  taken  out  under  it  for  a  year. 
'  Any  such  practice  would  be  irregular.  Van- 
'  derlinden  (p.  423)  in  speaking  of  Citations  to 
'  hear  such  execution  decreed,  says,  this  takes 
'  place,  Jirst,  when  the  Decree  or  Sentence  of 
'  which  execution  is  sought  has  become  super- 
'  annuated,  &c.  ;  and,  secondly,  when  the  party 
'  condemned  is  dead,  or,  by  being  placed  under 
'  cnratorship,  has  lost  the  legifimam  personam 
'  standi  in  judicio.  In  this  case  the  Decree 
'  before  it  can  be  put  in  execution,  must  be 
«  declared  executable  against  the  Heir  or  Curator. 
«  (See  Vanderlinden,  p.  28. ;  Grant,  C.  P.  Vol. 
«1.  pl6l.;and  White  v  Rayward,  2.  feset/ 
'  462  ;  1.  Mer.  154,)    The  Supreme  Court  there- 


1846 


1846 


478 


Collective 
Court. 


1847 


Queen's  Advo- 
cate 

V. 

_  Mendis  and 
others. 


Proof  of  long 
cultivation 
and  payment 
of  tax,coupled 
with   produc- 
tion of  two 
old  Deeds  in 
favor  of  de- 
fendants, 
constitutes 
such  a  prima, 
facie  title,  aa 
amounts  to 
a  '  probable 
claim  or  pre- 
tence of  title' 
under  Ordi- 
nance 12  of 

1840. 
In.  i-ummary 
p  roceedings 
under  this 
Ordinance, 
the  D  C.  has  ■ 
no  power  to 
decide  on 
validity  or 
otherwise  of 

an  old 
Deed,  appa- 
rently genu- 
ine, which 
had  been 
accompanied 
bypossossion. 


'  fore  sees  no  ground  to  dissent  from  its  former 
'  Order  requiring  this  case  to  be  revived — [No 
'17,313,   D.  G.  Randy. 2 

6lK  January.  (C,  S.  T.) 

1001 — The  Queen's  Advocate,  js-  Sadris  Mendis 

aud   others, 
[Irom  « Murray's  Eeports' — pp.  67— 70. J 

This  vsras  an  Information  by  the  Q.  A.  under 
the  Ordinance  No.  12  of  1840)  claiming  for  tho 
Crown  certain  land  alleged  to  be  the  property 
of  Her  Majesty,  which  the  plaintiff  alleged 
that  the  defendant  had,  in  February  1844,  un- 
'lawfuliy,andwithoufc  probable  claim  or  pretence 
of  title,  entered  upon  and  taken  possession  of.' 
[See  No,  6108,  D,  0.  Kandy,  ante,  p.  460.] 
The  defendants  pleaded  Not  guilty. 

Evidence  was  adduced  in  proof  of  possession 
and  cultivation  of  the  land  by  defendants  for 
upwards  of  20  years,  and  of  payment  by  them 
to  Grovernment  of  tho  usual  rate  of  tax  exigi- 
ble for  private  lands.  The  defendants  also 
relied  on  two  very  old  Deeds  or  Grants  of  the 
land  in  question,  in   favor  of  their  predecessors. 

The  following  is  the  judgment  of  the  Dis- 
trict Court  •.—{Septemher  25th,  1845],  '  The 
'  6th  cl.  of  the  Ordinance  No.  12  ot  1840  is 
'  explained  to  the  Assessors,  and  they  are 
'  called  on  to  state  if  the  defendants  have  prov- 
'  ed  to  their  satisfaction,  that  they  (the  defend- 
'  ants)  have  within  the  last  20  years  paid 
'  such  customary  taxes,  &c.,  on  the  land  in 
'  dispute,  aa  are  paid  on  similar  lands,  the  prc- 
'  perty  of  private  individuals,  within  the  same 
'  District. 

'The  Singhalese  document  filled  by  the  de- 

'  fendants  dated  28Lh  March  1793,  is  also  put 

*  into  their  hands,  and  they  are   asked  if  that 

Deed  can  be  construed  into  an  absolute  Grant 

'  of  the  Villages  or  lands  mentioned  therein. 

'The  Assessors  not  understanding  either 
'Dutch  or  Ejigliah,  cannot  be  expected  lo  give 


479 


1847. 


•any  opinion  of  the  Dutch  Deed,  or  its  En g- 
'  Jish  translation,  also  filed  by  defendants. 

'  The  Assessors  state  that  the  Singhalese 
'  document  placed  in  their  hands  appears  to  be 
'  a  Sannas  in  favor  of  the  Chaliahs  of  Katupiti 
'  Madampe,  and  that  allusion  is  made   therein 

*  to  another  Sannas  of  the  20th  January  1767. 

'  They  say  that  with  regard  to  payment  of 
<  taxes,  it  has  been  proved  that  defendants  have 

*  paid  but  one-tenth  on  the  land  in  question, 
'  and  that  such  appears  to  have  been  the  rate 
'  of  tax  paid  by  private  parties  in  the  same 
'  District,  and  that  their  opinion  is  altogether 
'  in  favour  of  the  defendants'  claim. 

'  Tbe  District  Judge,  as  far  as  he  can  form 
'  any  opinion  from  so  imperfect  a  translation 
'  as  that  produced,  does  not  regard  the  Dutch 
'Deed  as  an  absolute  Grant  of  lands.  It  is  . 
'  beaded  '  Extract  from  the  Resolutions  of 
'  Council  held  on  the  20th  September  1766' ;  and 
'  at  the  foot  it  is  set  forth  as   a  mere  copy  from 

*  the  Dutch  Eecords,  and  signed  as  such  by  the 

*  person  who  kept  such  Eecords.  That  is  the 
'  only  signature  it  bears.  The  Resolution  come 
'  to  appears  to  have  been  to  reserve  certain  lands 
'  in  the  Chilaw  District  for  such  Chaliahs 
'as  might  return  to  that  part  of  the  country 
'  from  the  Kandyan  territories,  to  which  it 
'  would  appear  that  many  Chaliahs  had  fled. 
'  The  carrying  of  thatEesolution  into  efFect,  was 
'  contingent  on  the  return  of  such  ChaUaks, 
'and  could  only  be  adopted  with  regard  to 
'  those  Chaliahs  as  actually  did  return, 

'  The  Singhalese  document  alludes  to  ano- 
•ther  Sannas  of  the  20th  January  1767,  (which 
'  is  not  before  the  Court,  the  IJutch  Deed  be- 
'  ing  dated  20th  September  1766)  but  does  not 

*  appear  to  the  District  Judge  to  convey  an 
'absolute  title  to  lands. 

'  With  regard  to  the  taxes  paid,  it  appears  to 
'the  District  Judge,  from  the  evidence,  that 
'  all  Chenas,  whether  cleared  with  or  without 


Collective 
<.lourt. 

Queen's  Advo- 
cate 

V. 

Mendis  and 
oihera. 


1847. 


dSO 


Collective 
Court. 

Queen's  Advo- 
cate 

V. 

MendiU  and 
others. 


'  permisBion  of  Government,  pay  tbe  same  rate 
'of duty,   namely,   one-tenlh  to  Government, 

•  in  the  Chilaw  District. 

'  Such  being  the  opinion  of  the  District 
'Judge,  it  is  ordered  that  the  defendants  give 

•  up   peaceable   possession   of    the   land  called 

•  Galelieteyawe  to  the  Crown,  together  with  all 

•  crops  and  iramoveable  property  standing  there- 
'on,  and  that  they  pay  the  costs  of  the  Informa- 
'  tion." 

The  defendants  appealed  on  several  grounds, 
and  the  case  was  reserved  for  collective  decision. 

R.  Morgan,  (Advocate),  appeared  for  the  ap- 
pellants, but  the  Court  thought  it  unnecessary 
to  hear  hiin,  and  the  D.  Q.  A.  (SeUy)  left  the 
case  in  their  lordship's  hands. 

Pee  Cueiam  : — Bet  aside  with  costs.  '  The 
'  Supreme  Court  is  clearly  of  opinion  that  this 
'  is  not  a  case  for  the  summary  proceedings  under 

•  the  Ordinance  No,  12  of  1840,  and  that  theD. 
'C.  ought  not  to  have  made  any  order  therein 
t  against  the  defendants  to  deliver  up  possession 
( of  the  lauds  mentioned  in  the  luformation, 
« because  the  proof  of  the  long  cultivation  thereof 
( by  the  defendants,  and  the  payment  of  the  tax 
« of  one-tenth  for  the  same,  Recording  to  the  rate 
I  payable  on  private  lands,  and  also  the  old 
I  Deeds  adduced  in  their  favor,  sufficiently  shew 
'  such  a  prima,  facia  title  in  the  defendants,  as 
•amounts  to  a  '  probable  claim  or  pretence  of 

•  title,'  under  the  Ordinance.  The  District 
'  Judge,  moreover,  ought  not  thereon  to  have 
f  proceeded  to  decide  under  these  summary  prc- 
«  ceediugs,  whether  upon  the  true  construction 
t  of  an  old  deed,  apparently  genuine,  and  where 
I  possession  has  accompanied   it,    the  original 

•  Grant  was  absolute  or  conditional  only,  and 
« whether  any  condition  contained  therein  had 
<  been  since  duly  fulfilled  or  not  by  the 
f  grantees,'— [No.    1,879.    D.     C.    Neffomio.] 

11,388. 


481 


1847. 


6th  January,  1847.     (C.  S.  T.) 
1002 — M.  L.  Odooma  Leble  Markair  v.  B,Simon 

[From  '  Murray's  Reports,'  pp.  75— 76.] 
Tliis  was  au  action  for  goods  sold  and  deliver- 
ed. On  the  day  of  trial,  it  transpired  that  the 
plaintifE  was  only  nineteen  years  of  age  and  un- 
married ;  and  that  he  lived  with  his  parents, 
though  he  carried  on  trade  in  separate  premises 
on  bis  own  account.  The  defendant  urged  that 
plaintiff,  being  a  minor,  could  not  maintain  the 
suit  without  the  consent  and  assistance  of  his 
guardians.- 

The  District  Judge  was  of  opinion  that  accor- 
ding to  the  Dutch  Civil  Law,  minors  (that  is 
those  under  25  years  of  agej,  could  not  appear 
without  the  consent  and  assistance  of  their 
guardians,  and  (the  Assessors  concurring)  the 
plaintiff  was  nonsuited. 

The  plaintiff  appealed  on  several  grounds.: 
(I).  That  the  objection  came  too  late.  (2).  That 
the  objection,  if  valid,  did  not  warrant  a  nonsuit ; 
but  that  the  guardians  should  have  been  allowed 
to  appear.  (3).  That  though  a  minor  could  not 
be  sued  but  through  his  guardians  ;  yet  a 
minor  could  maintain  a  suit  on  n  contract  ad- 
vantageous to  his  own  interests.  .  (4.)  That 
plaintiff  was  a  trader,  and  transacted  business 
on  his  own  account. 

The  Circuit  Judge  affirmed  the  Decree,  sub- 
ject lo  the  opinion  of  the  Collective  Court 
whether  the  age  of  majority  should  be  reckoned 
according  to  the  Dutch  or  Mohamedan  Law. 

The  Collective  Court  sei  asid^  the  Decree, 
and  remanded  the  case  for  beajing  and  evidence 
de  novo. 

Per  Curiam:  — '  According  to  the  Moorish 
'  Law  the  age  of  majority  is  after  the  expiration 
'  of,  or  at  the  completion  of  the  sixteenth  year. 
'  (Hedaiy  a.  Vol.  iii.  p.  482  ;  MacNwugUen't 
'  Moh.  Law,  eh.  8.,  p.  62.)  ,  and  by  the  Dutch 
'  Law  the  parental  power  ceases  by  tacit  or  in- 
'  direct  emancipation,  when  the  children   vrith 


Collective 
Court, 


The  son  of 
Moorish  par- 
ents entitled 
to  sue,  on  his 
attaining  his 
aixteenthyeac 

where  he 
trades  on  his 
account,    se- 
parately, with 
the   know- 
ledge of   bis 
parents ; 
though  he 
continues    to 
reside  with 
them. 

The  Moha- 
medan and 
not  iheDutoh 
Law  should 
govern  such  a 
case. 


1847 


482 


Collecti-re 
Court, 


Case  lying 
dormant  in 
Appeal,  or- 
dered to  be 
struck  off 

the  List. 


Surplusage 
in  an  Indict- 
ment may  be 

rejected. 
Technical  ob- 


'  the  previous  knowledge  of  the  parents,   take 

•  up  a  residence  elsewhere,  and  exercise   openly 

•  any  trade  or  calling.'     (Vanderiindm.  p.  96, 
and  Voet,  lib.  1,  tit.  7—12). 

'  As  the  plaintiff  appears  to  be  19  years  of 
'  age,  and  is   openly   carrying   on   trac(e   in   a 

•  separata  house  of  his  brother's  on  his  own 
'  account,  with  the  knowledge  of  his  parents, 

•  the  Supreme  Court  thinks  he  must  be  deem- 
«  ed  to  be  no  longer  under  the  parental  ppwer, 
'  and  that  although  he  has  continued  to  reside 
'  with    his    parents,  that    circumstance   alone 

•  affords  in  this  Island,  no  reasonable  presump- 
'  tion  to  the  contrary,  in  the  case  of  a  young 
«  Moorman   who  has  already  attained  his   full 

•  age  of  majority  according  to  his  own  laws,  and 
'  is  trading  se^aratim  on  his  own  account  ; 
'  because  the  custom  of  the  Moors  and  l^ativea 
'  in  this  Colony,  is  for  the  whole  family  to  con- 
'  tinue  thus  to  reside  together  in  the  same 
'  house  until  the  marriage  of  the  children,  and 
'  even  after  wards.'— [No.  18,238.  J>.  C.  Galle.] 

1003. — Sekady  Marcar  v.  Tamona  Lebhe 
and  another. 

This  case  having  lain  dormant  since  the  year 
1841,  and  uo  party  appearing  in  support  of  the 
Appeal,  and  the  1st  defendant  being  reported 
by  the  Registrar  to  be  dead,  it  was  ordered 
that  the  case  be  struck  off  the  List  of  Appeals, 
and  be  returned  to  the  Court  below.  [A'b,  21,876, 
D.  C.  Colombo.} 

December  4ith.  (C.  S.  T.) 

1004. — The  Queen  v.  Sarmanis,  convicted  of 
Forgery  at  Caltura. 

It  is  adjudged  that  the  motion  in  arrest  of 
Judgment  be  pver-ruledj  and  that  the  Indictment 
is  Sufficiently  supported  by  the  evidence  adduc- 
ed. It  appe^irs  th^t  the "  words  "  Notarial 
Xnsiryment"  occur  before  th^  purport  of  the 
iustrament  ia  ^et  out,  ^ud  being  n^^tter  of  ia- 


483 


1847 


duceraent,  the  record  would  have,  in  England, 
been  ordered  to  have  boen  amended  by  striking 
out  the  word  "  Notarial",  f  2.  Russell  on  Grimes 
p  798-9,  and  note  9 ;)  and  whcuever  such 
amendment  is  allowed,  the  Supreme  Court 
would  reject  the  words  as  surplusage ;  as 
although  the  Court  hab  by  its  rule  of  the  6tb 
December  1845  ordered  that  no  objection  shall 
lie  to  the  form  of  any  Information  in  any  casp 
where  such  objection  would  not  be  allowed  by 
the  Law  of  England  upon  any  Indictment, 
it  has  never  gone  on  to  further  declare  that  all 
objections  ■which  are  valid  by  the  Law  or  prac- 
tice of  England,  shall  be  equally  allowed  here. 
On  the  contrary  the  Supreme  Court  has  always 
maiuly  looked  on  such  technical  objections,  to 
see  whether  the  Information  stated  the  oftence 
-with  sufficient  clearness  and  certainty,  for  the 
Prisoner  to  know  the  crime  with  which  he  was 
charged,  and  to  be  able  to  make  his  defence  to 
it ;  and  in  this  case  the  Information  can  leave 
no  doubt  as  to  the  nature  of  the  instrument,  viz, 
that  it  purported  to  be  a  Deed  of  Sale  of  the 
garden  mentioned  therein,  but  was  incomplete 
for  want  of  the  due  attestation  of  a  Notary,  the 
gist  of  the  offence  laid  therein  being  that  the 
Prisoner,  in  his  office  of  Notary,  had  fradulently 
omitted  to  seal  and  sign  such  Deed  of  Sale. 
{No,  6,  Grown  Case  Reserved.'^ 

December  llth,  (0,  S.  T.) 

1005. —  Jfeygale,  widow,  v.  GMnnetamby. 

In  this  case  the  Decree  of  the  Court  below 
was  set  aside,  and  the  case  remanded  for  further 
enquiry  and  Judgment  de  novo. 

Per  CuEiAM. — It  is  very  probable,  for  the  rea- 
sons ably  stated  by  the  District  Judge,  that  the 
parties  in  framing  the  instrument  did  not  intend 
to  restrict  the  first  and  second  defendants  from 
disposing  of  the  garden  by  mortgage  or  sale  only ; 
but  if  the  Court  were  bound  to  look  to  the  deed 
alone,   it   could    not  possibly    hold    that  tho 


Collective 
Couit. 


jeotions  valid 
in  England 
are  ■not  equ- 
al ly  allowable 
here. 


184.7. 

Collectiv  e 
Court. 


Ohmnetamby, 


484 

legal  effect  of    the  express    prohibition  therein 
asainst    mortgaging    or  selling,  extended    also 
to    debar  the   donees   from    making    any  gift, 
excbange,  or  other  alienation  of  the  said  garden. 
On  the    contrary   the    Supreme    Court    would 
incline  to  consider    that  in   aa  ordinary  Grant, 
the  condition  would  be  wholly  void  as  annexed 
to  an  absolute  gift;   but    as      the    document 
on  the  face  of  it  is  a  gift  or  dowry,   another  in- 
dependent    question    must     necessarily     arise 
thereon,  which  may  affect  the   transfer  of  this 
garden  between   the   defendants,  viz  ;   whether 
by  the  general    customary  Law    of  dowry,  pre- 
yaMi^g  at  BaUicaha,  the  husband  cannot  even 
with  the  consent   of  his   wife  give   away   the 
w/joZe  of  her  dowry   property   to   the  sister  of 
the  husband  ?  And   also  if  a   married  couple 
die  childless,  the  dowry   property  does  not  by 
such  Law  devolve  on  the  donors  or  their  heirs  ? 
This  Court  has  on  a  previous    occasion,  in 
reference  to  the  wife's  properly,  had  to  notice 
the  analogy   between  the    Theseioaleme   or  cus- 
tomary laws  of  the   Malabars  at  Jaffna,  and  the 
customs    prevailing    at    Batticaloa,    and     has 
referred      the    case      back     accordingly    for 
enquiry   as  to  the  latter.  (&.ppeal   No.  2912 
D.  Q.  Batticaloa,  11th  November  1835,*  and 
Marshall's  Digest,  pp.  224 ;  94,  and  222) ;  and 
believing,  as  the  Supreme  Court  does,  that  the 
decision  of  the    District    Court  has    met  the 
real  Justice  of  the  case,    it  is  only    desirous  to 
have   such    decree    established    on  its   proper 
legal  grounds.  [iVo.  10,443,  B.  C.  Batticaloa.'] 

December  29th.  (C.  8.  T.) 
1006 — Don  Abraham  v.  Totie  Unnanse. 

The  Judgment  of  the  Police  Court  is  set 
aside.  The  2nd  clause  of  the  Ordinance  in 
question  provides  that,  whenever  the   Governor 


*  Vide  Morgan's  Dige$t,  p.  62,  par.  -Z  67 


485 


1847- 


sliall  declare  by  Proclamation  that  a  Police 
Force  shall  be  established  within  any  town  and 
limits  specified  in  such  Proclamation,  the 
Ordinance  shall  come  into  operation  therein  ; 
the  Supreme  Court  is  therefore  of  opinion  that 
as  Galkisse  is  not  within  such  specified  limits, 
the  36th  clause  of  the  Ordinance,  on  which  the 
prosecution  is  founded,  cannot  be  held  to 
have  come  into  operation  therein. 

The  Acting  Senior  Puisne  Justice  (Mr.  StarJc) 
dissents,  being  of  opinion  from  the  56th 
clause  of  the  Ordinance  No.  13  of  1843,  and 
the  Ist  clause  of  the  present  Ordinance,  that 
these  Ordinances  respectively  were  intended  to 
have  operation  immediately  and  universally, 
except  as  respects  the  Police  Force  of  the  towns 
and  limits  mentioned  therein,  and  the  clause 
under  consideration  has  no  reference  to  such 
Police  Force,  f  No.  9153,  P.  C.  Colomho.'] 


Collective 
Court. 


Ahrdhmn 

V. 

TJnnanss. 


1007. — Perera  v.  Dias  and  another  : 
The  Petition  of  the   second   defendant,  pray- 
ing for   leave  to   appaal  from  the  Judgment  of 
Court  below  in  this  case,  is  rejected. 

The  Judgment  of  the  District  Court  sought  to 
be  appealed  from  in  this  case  was  pronounced  on 
the  30th  April  1841,  and  an  appeal  was  lodged 
against  it  by  tbe  defendants  ;  but  that  appeal 
was  withdrawn  by  the  defendant's  Proctor  on 
the  Slat  December  in  that  year,  and  the  pre- 
sent application  was  not  made  until  after  the 
lapse  of  more  than  six  years  and  a  half,  after  the 
withdrawal  of  the  first  appeal.  The  only  ground 
on  which  this  application  is  founded  is  a  mistake 
in  Law  in  the  Judgment,  and  it  is  not  alleged 
that  there  has  been  any  fraud  in'this  case,  or 
that  any  evidence  has  been  discovered  since  it 
was  decided,  and  the  Plaintiff,  who  was  a  pur- 
chaseri  completed  the  transfer  of  the  property 
in  question  after  the  action  was  brought. 

It  may  also  be  urged  that  although  the 
general  Law  is,  as  stated  in  the  opinion  of  the 


Perera 

V. 

Dias. 


1847 


486 


CoUeotiTe 
Court. 


Advocate  for  the  Petitioner,  yet  there  are  eases 
shewing  that  agreements  restricting  redemption 
to  time  certain,  are  good  if  ;between  members  of 
the  same  famih/,  as  the  mortgagor  migiit  thus 
intend  to  benefit  the  morfgagee.  (JBenham  v. 
Newcomh  2  Vent,  364  ;   1  Powell,  Mortg :  128.) 

1008. — King  v.  Hamilton. 

Judgment,  The  proceedings  in  this  ease  hav- 
ing been  read  : — It  is  ordered)  with  the  consent 
of  the  Counsel  on  both  sides,  that  this  case  be 
remanded  to  be  heard  at  the  ensuing  sessions  for 
the  Midland  Circuit.  It  appears  from  Armour's 
Digest,  tit ;  Lat  Hind,  that  the  Kandyan  Law 
is  not  silent  on  the  point  stated  to  be  material 
in  this  case,  and  it  may  possible  be  requisite  to 
take  further  evidence  as  to  the  custom  thereonj 
under  these  circumstances  the  general  question 
on  whieh  the  case  has  been  reserved  for  Col- 
lective decision,  viz  -,  "As  to  what  Law  ought  to 
prevail  in  the  absence  of  any  Kandyan  Law 
upon  the  subject,"  does  not  at  present  arise  in  the 
case.     [iVo.  20, 194.  B.  C.  Kandy.'] 


APPENDIX 


IN  APPEAR  FROM  THU  C.  R.  QF 
COLOMBO. 

No.  18859. 

B.  E.  Adoiphus Plaintiff  and  Appellant. 

Versus. 

SanGekelisgam  Kannen  and  an- 
other  Defendants  and  Respondents. 

The  defendants  were  Managers  of  a  Oheetoo 
Club,  and  as  such  managers  were  alleged  to 
hold  in  tbeir  hands  the  sum  of  £7  being  the 
stakes  of  a  lottery,  which  had  fallen  to  one 
P.  Canden.  These  stakes  were  seized  under 
the  writ  No.  9388  issued  against  the  "Houses, 
Lands,  Goods,  Debts,  and  Credits,"  of  the  said 
P.  Canden  at  the  instance  of  one  John  Henri/ 
Perera,  aiid  sold  by  the  Fiscal  ;  they  were  pur- 
chased by  plaintiff  who  brought  his  action  on 
the  Fiscal's  assignment. 

lat  defendant  examined,  states, — "I  am  a 
member  of  a  certain  Cheetoo  Club.  There'were 
158  GJteetoos  (or  Tickets)  at  5s  each.  After 
tlie  number  of  subscribers  is  complete,  and  the 
sum  for  each  Ticket  paid,  the  drawing  com- 
mences;  it  takes  place  twice  a  mouth.  At 
each  drawing  some  one  of  the  subscribers  gains 
the  pri?e,  which  entitles  him  to  tie  whole 
amount  subscribed.  The  subscribers  again 
(including  the  one  who  won  the  prizej  pay 
down  5s  each  for  a  Ticket,  and  another  draw- 
ing takes  place.  In  this  way  the  subscription 
continues,  and  prizes  are  drawn,  until  each 
cheetoo-holder  bns  gained  a  prize.  If,  for  in- 
stance, there  be  20  members  paying  £1  each, 
some  person  at  each  drawing  gains  a  prize  of 
£20.  No  prize  in  favor  of  Pamben  Canden 
turned  up,  the  club  having  ceased  to  exist 
before  bis  turn  came  round." 


Appendli   A. 
AdoVphus. 


jam 
and  another. 
1862. 


Appendix   A. 

, A . 

V. 

Scmgerelingam,. 
1862. 


Appendix  B. 

< • N 

Collier. 

V, 


1847. 


Judgment  (per  C.  S.  de  Saram  Commis- 
sioner) :  "  It  would  appear  that  one  Pamhen 
Canden  was  a  subscriber  to  what  is  called  by  the 
natives  a  Cheetoo  Club.  It  is  clear  from  the 
statements  of  the  defendants  to  the  Piscal's 
Officer  (plaintiff's  1st  witness)  that  Pamhen 
Ganden  had  paid  £7  into  their  hands  being  his 
subscriptions  to  their  club-  We  all  kDow  what 
a  Gheetoo  Club  is,  and  that  it  is  just  what  the 
lirst  defendant  has  described  it  tu  be.  It  has 
therefore  clearly  for  its  object  an  undertaking 
in  the  nature  of  a  lottery,  and,  as  such,  prohi- 
bited under  a  penalty  by  Ord.  4  of  1844.  The 
contract  between  all  the  parties  connected  with 
such  a  club,  is  consequently  void  by  statute, 
and  the  plaintiff,  being  in  the  shoes  of  Pamben 
Ganden  one  of  the  members,  is  in  no  better 
position,  and  is  precluded  from  obtaining  relief. 

The  claim  is  dismissed  ;  each  party  to  bear 
his  own  costs. 

In  appjeai.  {per  Guriam)  affirmed.  This  is 
clearly  a  case  of  an  illegal  lottery. 

IN  APPEAL  FEOM  D.  C.  OF  COLOMBO. 

No.  38134. 
Edmund  Collier  Jr.  Agent  and  At- 
torney of  H.  J.  Albrecht, 
trading    in   Ceylon  as  C. 
D.    Paklett  and  Co.    Plaintiff'  and 
Appellant. 

Vs. 
Tkagappa  Chettt,  Defendant  and  Respondent, 
Golliev,  as  above  described,  sought  to  recoTer 
from  defendant  £286. 19.  7  as  balance  remain- 
ing due  to  G.  -D.  Parlett  and  Co.,  for  the  price 
and  value  of  two  Bengal  Government  Bills  of 
Exchange  sold  and  delivered  by  that  firm  to 
defendant,  on  the  a2nd  March  1841.  The  de- 
fendant pleaded  in  abatement  another  action 
(No.  33125)  pending  against  liim  for  the  same 
claim,  at  the  instance  of  i^.  Lamhe,  as  the  then 
!Fact<  r  of  C.   D.  Parlett  and  Co.     At  the  trial 


Collier 

V. 

Teagwppa 
1847. 


plaintiff  admitted  that  the  cause  of  action   in    Appendix   B. 
both  cases  was  the  same. 

It  appeared  that  Lambe  was  for  some  time 
manager  for  G,  £>,  Farhti  and  Co.  The 
partners  then  were  Alhreeht  in  England,  and 
Parlett  in  Ceylon.  When  Parlett  was  tempo- 
rarily absent  from  the  Island,  Lambe  did  the 
business  by  procuration.  After  Parlett's  death 
in  March  1840,  Jlbreckt,  then  in  England  sent 
a  Power  to  Lambe  authorizing  him  to  wind  up 
the  affairs  of  the  firm,  and  giving  him  the 
general  superintendence  and  managemeut 
of  the  new  business  to  be  carried  in  Cey- 
lon by  Alhreeht  on  his  own  account,  as  C.  D. 
Parlett  and  Co.  The  Power  authorized  Lambs 
(inter  alia)  "to  commence,  prosecute,  defend, 
discontinue,  compromise  and  settle  any  actions 
suits  or  other  legal  proceedings",  relating  to  the 
now  firm,  and  to  "  use  the  name  of  the  said 
Henry  James  Albreeht  for  these  purposes." 
Under  this  Power  Lambe  acted,  and  in  negoti- 
atinir  BilJs  and  managing  other  transactions, 
Lambe  signed  "  C.  D.  Parlett  and  Go."  Albreeht 
who  came  to  Ceylon  in  January  1841  was  pre- 
sent on  22nd  March  184 1  along  with  Lambe 
at  the  sale  of  the  Bills  of  Exchange  in  question, 
which  was  for  the  behoof  solely  of  0.  D.  P.  and 
Co,  and  was  so  entered  in  tneir  books.  The  Bills 
bore  the  endorsation  "  CD.  Parlett  &  Co." 

On  the  14th  April  thereafter,  Lambe  institu- 
ted, in  his  own  individual  name,  the  suit.  No. 
83125  against  the  present  deft  ;  no  mention  was 
made  by  Lambe  in  the  Libel  of  his  constituents, 
C.  B.  P.  and  Co,  although  the  Proctor's  origin- 
al authority  to  institute  that  suit  was  a  letter 
signed  "  C.  D.  Parlett  and  Co."  in  the  hand- 
writing of  ZoMie.  On  tiie  11th  May  1841, 
Lambe  ceased  to  conduct,  and  Albreeht  took 
the  sole  management  of,  the  business.  A  letter 
was  put  in  evidence  dated  24th  Feb.  1842  sign- 
ed "  0-  D.  Parlett  and  Co."  addressed  to  the 
Proctor  who  instituted  the  suit  No.  33125  ;  it 
was  in  ihe  handwriting  of  Thompson  the  then 
Agent  of  the  firm,  a»d    after    relerring    to    this 


1847. 


IV. 

Appendix    B.    and  other  cases,  proceeded  :     "  For  these  suits 

^— ~\    we  request  to  receive  from    you   a  written   ac- 

OoUier  knowledgement  that  you  consider  yourself  as 
proceeding  solely  on  our  account,  and  that  you 
undertake  to  pay  over  to  us  such  sums  as  you 
may  recover  in  respect  of  them."  It  did  not 
appear  what  reply,  if  any,  was  made  to  this 
letter.  A iiother  letter  was  offered  in  evidence 
by  Plaintiff  from  Lambe  to  Albrecht,  relating  to 
the  capacity  in  which  Lambe  acted  for  the 
firm  ;  but  the  D.  J.  rejected  the  evidence,  on 
the  ground  that  it  was  a  private  letter,  and  that 
Lambe  andAlbrecht  might  be  colluding  against 
the  Defendant. 

JoDGMENF  of  the  D.  C.  (29th  J%  1845.) 
"  The  defendant  has  pleaded  in  abatement  tiiat 
another  suit  was  pending  for  the  same  cause 
when  this  actioa  was  commenced,  wherein, 
Frederick  Lambe  the  then  factor  of  G.  D.  P. 
and  Co.  was  Plaintiff.  Upon  this  plea  issue  is 
taken.  It  is  admitted  by  Plaintiff,  (Collier,) 
that  the  cause' of  action  is  the  same  ;  but  It 
is  contended,  that  although  Lambe,  the  Plaintiff 
iu  the  formtr  suit,  was  in  the  employ  of  the 
firm,  it  was  not  in  such  situation  as  to  entitle 
him  to  maintain  an  action  iu  his  own  name,  as 
he  h^a  done ;  and  that,  consequently  the  firm 
is  not  to  be  debarred  from  maintaining  this 
action. 

This  must  be  held  a  good  plea  if  Lambe 
did,  when  he  commenced  the  action,  stand  iu 
such  a  relation  to  the  firm  as  to  entitle  him  to 
maintain  actions,  in  which  the  firm  was  con- 
cerned, in  his  own  name.  The  point,  therefore, 
for  consideration  is,  whether  Lambe  di3  stand 
in  such  relation  ,  and  in  order  to  ascertain  this, 
let  us  see  first,  whether  he.stood  in  such  a  relative 
position,  as  to  be  personally  liable  upon  con- 
tracts entered  into  with  him  for  the  benefit  of 
the  firm. 

"  It  is  quite  clear  that  a  party  is  personally 
responsible,  if  he  does  not  Hisciose  the  fact  of 
his  Agency.  {Story's  Agency  p.  228  )  But  here 
it  may  be  said  that  an  Agency  was  disclosed  as 


the  Bills  were  endorsed  'C.  D.  Parlett  and  Co.' 
It  is  true  that  this  does  disclose  the  fact  of 
Lamhe  beiug  an  agent,  but  is  it  disclosed  to 
whom  he  was  such  agent  ? — it  beiug  a  well 
knowD  fact  that  C.  D.  Parlett  had  been  dead 
some  years.  But  if  a  contract  is  entered  into 
by  an  Agent  who  is  known  to  be  such,  and 
acting  in  that  character,  but  the  name  of  the 
principal  is  not  disclosed,  the  same  principle 
applies,  and  the  Agent  is  held  responsible  ;  and 
until  such  disclosure,  it  cannot  be  supposed 
that  the  contracting  party  would  have  entered 
into  a  contract,  exouerating  the  Agent,  and 
trusting  to  an  unknown  principal,  who  might 
be  insolvent  or  incapable  of  binding  himself 
XStory's  Agency,  p  229.) 

"  1  think  therefore  iawJe  did  stand  in  such 
a  position  as  to  make  him  personally  liaiile 
upon  contracts  entered  into  by  him  on  behalf 
of  the  said  firm. 

"  The  next  point  then  comes,  whether  he 
could  sue  in  his  own  name.  Now,  Indepeudeut- 
ly  of  the  principle  that  he  who  can  be  sued  can 
also  sue,  on  the  same  subject  matter  ;  consider- 
ing that  the  contract  in  this  case,  if  such  it  may 
be  called,  was  made  with  Lamhe  for  0.  D.  P.  & 
Co,  and  that  the  name  of  Parlett  is  fictitious  ; 
that  the  name  of  the  real  party  concerned, 
namely  Alhrecht  does  not  appear  throughout 
the  transaction ;  and  moreover  that  he  was  not 
generally  known  to  be  the  principal  of  the  firm, 
and  did  not  usually  reside  in  the  Island,  I  think 
that  Lambe  could  well  institute  the  acti9a  No 
33125,  and  that  the  plea  pleaded  in  this  suit 
must  be  held  good.  It  is  accordingly  decreed 
that  the  Defendant  be  absolved  from  the  ins- 
tance with  Costs.  Assessors  concur." 

From  this  decision  the  Plaintiff  appealed  on 
two  grounds  :  (1)  that  the  Court  below  rejected 
evidence  whereby  the  true  position  of  Lambe 
with  0.  D.  Parlett  and  Co  would  have  appeared  ; 
and  (2)  that  a  Broker  was  not  by  Law  permit- 
ted to  sue  in  his  own  name,  and  without  refer- 
ence to  the  name  of  his  principal. 


Appendix    B. 
, • ^ 

Collier 

V. 

1847. 


VI. 


Appendix   B" 
ColUer 

V. 

Teagroppa. 
1847. 


Selhy  D.  Q.  A.,  for  appellant,  was  stopped  by 
tlie  Court — the  Acting  Chief  Justice  fMr. 
Carr)  observing  "  I   am  with  you  Mr.    Selhy." 

Stewart  D.  to  Q.  A.  waa  about  to  address  the 
Court  for  Respoudent,  when  SeJby  objected  on 
the  ground  that  defendant  had  left  tie 
Island  and  was  not  represented  in  Court  by  a 
Proctor,  though  the  case  had  stood  over  for  6 
months  for  filing  proxy.  The  C.  J.  decided  to 
hear  the   Respondent's  Counsel. 

Stewart.  The  defendant  ought  not  to  be 
harassed  with  two  actions.  Lambe  had  a  special 
property  in  the  Bills  and  could  therefore  sue  in 
his  own  name.  {Story's  Agency,  p.  29.)  The 
film  of  Parlett  and  Co  was  not  a  known  priucipa', 
and  Lambe  was  also  a  foreign  Agj'nt,  and  there 
fore  on  both  grounds  Lambe  might  sue  in  his 
own  name.  Plaintiff  {AlbreeJit)  might  have 
have  intervened  in  such  a  suit,  but  could  not 
maintain  a  separate  action  for  the  same  debt,  as 
the  factor  and  principal  were  the  same  party,  in- 
asmuch as  the  defendant  could  have  set  off 
against  the  factor's  claim  a  debt  due  to  the  de- 
fendant by  the  principal. 

Chief  Justice.  Plaintiff  ought  to  have  inter- 
vened in  the  former  suit,  and  he  not  having  done 
so,  the  two  suits  should  be  consolidated,  and  the 
plaintiff  pay  the  additional  costs. 

Selby.  His  view  of  the  case  was  difierent 
from  that  expressed  by  the  Court.  Admitting 
Lambe  to  have  been  a  factor  and  entitled  to  sue 
in  his  own  name,  it  did  not  follow  that  he  and 
his  principal  were,  therefore,  the  same  party. 
Though  for  some  purposes  they  might  be  so 
considered,  they  were  not  for  all  purposes  iden- 
tical. No  judgment  against  Lambe  could  have 
been  executed  against  the  property  of  the  firm. 
The  admission  that  Albrecht  coa\i  and  ought  to 
have  intervened,  established  tlie  fact  that  lie  was 
not  identical  with  Lambe,  for  he  {dlbrecht)  was 
already  a  paity  to  the  suit,  and  every  interven- 
tion must  be  by  a  third  party.  That  Albrecht 
could  have  intervened  in  that  suit  was  true,  for 
he  could   have  said  to   deteudant,  this  motey 


vu. 


though  sued  for  by,  is  not  due  to,  Lambe  (the 
plaiutiff)  but  to  J'arlett  and  Co.  ;  whilst  Lambe 
on  the  other  baud  might  have  denied  such  alle- 
gation, or  set  up  a  lien  in  his  own  favor  on  the 
bills.  As  Lambe  and  the  firm  might  thus  have 
adverse  interesta,  they  could  not  be  considered  , 
identical  ;  and  if  not,  the  defendant  could  not 
maintain  bis  plea  otlis pendens,  which  must  be 
where  the  parties  on  the  Record  to  both  suits  are 
the  same  persons :  nor  could  ihe  Court  consoli- 
date two  suits  between  difierent  parties.  (  Voet. 
44.  2.  7. ;  Gens.  For.  part.  2.  lib.  1.  titxuvi,  and 
6.  Kersteman,  93.)  Had  Lambe  sued  as  the 
Agent  of  C.  D,  P.  and  Co.,  tbe  firm  could  not 
have  brought  a  separate  action  until  the  former 
■T-\x\t  had  been  discontinued  ;  but  he  does  not  sue 
as  an  &.gent,  but  in  his  own  right  and  in  his  own 
uume,  and  the  proxy  is  signed  by  him  in  his  own 
name,  and  not  as  an  Attorney.  (Paley,  Princi- 
pal and  Agent  p.  180.  Story's  Agency,  p.  118. 
2  East  142.) 

Per  Caee  C.  J.  (25th  March  1847.;  "  It  is 
considered  and  adjudged  that  the  Decree  of  the 
J).  C.  of  Colombo  of  the  29th  July  1848,  be 
amended  by  the  plea  being  over-ruled  with  costs, 
and  by  its  being  ordered  that  the  pre&ent  suit, 
and  the  suit  No.  33125,  be  consolidated,  when 
the  Court  can,  at  the  trial  thereof,  decide  on  the 
respective  liabilities  of  the  parties  to  pay  the 
costs  in  such  suit. 

"  The  S.  C.  thinks  tnat  the  plaintiff  ought  to 
have  intervened  in  the  former  suit,  and  that  the 
relative  rights  of  the  parties  could  hav^  been 
luUy  and  well  settled  by  the  Court  upon  the 
plaintiff's  intervention  therein,  in  lieu  of  his 
harassing  the  defendant  with  this  separate  suit ; 
80  far,  therefore,  as  the  suit  may  appear  to  have 
wrongly  occasioned  further  litigation  and  ex- 
pense, the  plaintiff  should  be  made,  on  the  final 
decree,  to  bear  the  costs  thereof.  The  S.  C, 
does  not  consider,  on  the  facts  disclosed,  that 
Lambe  can  be  considered  as  a  Factor,  or  as 
having  any  right  in  himself  to  institute  the  first 
action  in   his  own  Jiame,  nor  can  the  S.  C.  say 


[Appendix  B. 

, ^ , 

Collier 

V. 

Teagappa. 
1847. 


vm. 


Appendix 

, --^-^ 

Collier 


1847. 


Appendix    C . 


Idvera 

V. 

Pieris 

1847. 

V 


See  Morgan's 
Digest,  p    2, 
and   Beling's 
,p.  281. 


hovT  fjir  the  same  was  ratified  bj  the  letter  from 
the  plaiutiff'a  Attorney  to  Mr.  Beling,  (the 
Prootor)  without  knowino;  vyhat  answer  was  sent 
to  it.  * 

The  whole  case  must  be  viewed  in  the  nature 
of  a  Bill  of  Interpleader  ("Drm^joafc*"  v.  Goodwin 
Cowp,  B.  251,  255.),  which  is  stated  to  be  si- 
milar in  some  measure  to  the  tertius  interpeniens 
of  the  Civil  Law.  {Mad.  239.J  and  wherein  the 
separate  claimants  can  be  compelled  by  the 
Court  to  interplead,  so  that  the  Court  may  ad- 
judge to  whom  the  debt  is  due,  and  the  third 
persons  applying  for  relief  h,G  ipderanified  and 
protected  against  their  separate  actions,  if  they 
have  commenced  the  same,"  ^Murrm^'s  Re- 
ports, (Sessions,  1847.)  pp.  92— 98.] 

IN  APPEAL  FROM  D.  C.  OF 
COLOMBO. 

No.  U,176. 

LivERA  (widow) Plaintiff  and  Appellant. 

DoMTMGO  V-^if  13... JDefend/fP't    and  liespondanl. 

The  suit  was  instituted  against  defendant  as 
executor  of  Bastion  FernanJo  Lekame  deceased, 
to  recover  the  sum  of  £5.  12.  6  alleged  to  have 
been  borrowed  and  received  by  the  said  B.  F, 
Lekame,  from  the  Plaintiff's  late  husband,  on  a 
Bond  dated  the  5th  May  1832.  Land  mort- 
gaged by  the  Bond  was  to  be  possessed  by  mort- 
gagee in  lieu  of  interest ;  and  the  Bond  contain- 
ed a  mutual  stipulation,  not  to  foreclose,  or 
redeem,  the  mortgage  till  after  the  lapse  of  5 
years.  It  was  alleged  that  the  mortgagee 
entered  into  possession  of  the  land  on  the 
execution  of  the  Bond,  and  tliat  after  his  death, 
which  happened  about  two  years  subsequently, 
his  willow,  the  Plaintiff,  continued  and  was  at 
the  institution  of  the  suit,  iu  possession  under 
the  mortgage. 


IX. 


The  Defendant  denied  the  execution  of  the 
Bond,  and  pleaded  the  3rd  cZ.  of  tlie  Prescrijj- 
tion  Ordinance,  No.  8  ISSi. 

It  appeared  at  the  Trial,  from  the  examination 
of  the  Plaintiff,  that  her  husband's  brother,  who 
was  living,  was  administrator  of  the  deceased's 
Estate,  that  the  Estate  had  been  long  wound 
up,  and  the  accounts  of  the  administrator  closed. 
On  this  admission  Defendant  moved  that  Plain- 
tiff be  nonsuited,  as  the  administrator  was  the 
proper  party  to  bring  the  action  ;  but  the 
D.  J.  over  ruled  this  objection,  and  refused  the 
motion.  It  also  appeared,  from  the  Inventory 
of  the  Estate  lodged  in  Court  by  the  admi- 
nistrator, that  the  sum  sued  for  in  this  action 
was  not  included  therein,  nor  was  there  any 
r-eference  whatever  made  to  it.  The  Plaintiff 
proved  the  Bond  and  adduced  evidence  of 
possession  of  land  as  alleged, 

The  D.  J.  pronounced  the  following  judg- 
ment {\mh  October  1846)  : "  The  Inventory  filed 
in  the  Testamentary  case  No.  405,  makes  no 
allusion  whatever  to  the  mortgage  in  question. 
which  the  Court  presumes  it  wrould  have  done, 
had  the  amount  been  still  really  due  at  the 
time.  The  Estate  of  plaintiff's  late  husband 
was  closed  in  April  1848  in  the  late  D.  G.  of 
Negombo,  and  she  commenced  this  action  in 
1845.  The  evidence  adduced  being  unsatis- 
factory, and  the  testimony  of  the  witnesses  as 
to  the  plaintiff's  possession  not  altogether  to  be 
depended  on,  it  is  decreed,  the  assessors  con- 
curring, that  this  case  be  dismissed.  Defendant 
is  absolved  from  the  instance  with  Costs."  The 
plaintiff  appealed  on  various  grounds. 

Advocate  B.  Morgan,  (for  Appellant.)  The 
mortgage  Bond  was  satisfactorily  proved — and 
this  was  the  only  matter  put  in  issue, by  defen- 
dant. The  Judgment  of  the  D.  C.  proceeded 
on  the  assumption  that  the  debt  was  not 
due  at  the  time  the  Inventory  was  filed,  that  is 
to  Say,  that  ithad  had  discharged  before  that  time 
—au  assumption  which  the  Court  was  not  jus- 


Appeadix 

C. 

( 

Livera, 

T. 

Pieris 
1847. 

> 
-J 

1847- 


Appendix   C.    tiiied  in  ucting  upon,  as   the  defendant  bad  nob 

J, --f ^    pleaded    payment,    but   non  est  factum ;  and 

Livira,         because,  in  point  of  fgct,  no   reasonable  grpund- 
^■.  existed   to  justify  such  assumption.    Nothing 

tSI*"  was  more   common   than     such  omissions  m 

inventories,  which  were  attributable  to  igno- 
rance or  ipadvertence  on  the  part  of  admi-t- 
nistrators.  Had  the  proper  issue  l^een  taken, 
and  the  plaintiff  allowed  an  opportunity  of 
doing  so,  she  would  have  been  able  to  explain, 
satisfactorily,  the  reason  of  such  omission.  No 
such  opportunity  was  afiorded  her  in  the  D.  C. 
The  only  issue  was  the  execution  of  the  Bond, 
and  that  was  satisfactorily  established.  As  to 
the  di£Beu)ty  suggested  by  the  Court  whether 
owing  to  the  condition  of  the  Bond  the 
action  was  maintainable — that  condition  did 
not  prevent  this  action,  because  (1)  the 
correct  meaning  of  the  Bond  wag  that 
the  restriction  was  not  perpetual,  but  only 
to  last  for  five  years;  (2)  Even  if  a  perpetual 
restriction  existed  it  would  be  bad  in  law.  An 
agreement  taking  away  the  right  of  the  credi- 
tor to  enforce  payment,  and  leaving  it  to  the 
debtor  to  pay  when  he  pleased,  was  illegal,  a>nd 
would  not  be  upheld.  (  Story's  Equity  Jitrisp  : 
§  1009,  and  I  Domat,  Ch,  iii,  tit  1.  sec  %  art, 
9,10.)  (3)  Allowing  the  agreement  to  be  goed 
and  valid,  yet,  where  in  the  case  of  an  antichre- 
sis, a  debtor  unlawfully  usurped  possession  of 
the  land,  instead  of  allowing  the  creditor  to 
enjoy  it  lieu  of  interest,it  would  be  competent  to 
the  creditor  to  bring  either  a  hypothecary  ac- 
tion for  the  recovery  of  the  money,  or  an  action 
to  be  quieted  in  possession  of  the  land.  The 
Rule  is  laid  down  in  Voet.  (  De  pign.  et  Jiyr 
pot^ee  tit  l,«ce  23.) 

Per  Carr  A.  C.  J.  (25th  Mm-ch  1847)  :  "  B 
is  considered  and  adjudged  that  the  decree  ot 
D.  C.  of  Colombo  be  set  aside  and  the,  case  re- 
manded for  re-hearfng  pn  further  evidence,  with 
liberty  to  the  parties  to  am«nd  their  present 
lists  of  witnesses,  and  for  the  D,  C.  to  give  judg- 
lutrit  eh  novo.  Costs  to  abide  result. 


XI. 


"  It  has  been  urged  by  appellant's  connsel 
that  omissions  in  the  Inventories  of  Adminis- 
trators, are  not  unfrequent,  and  do  not,  accord- 
ingly, deserve  the  weight  attached  by  the  D.  C. 
to  their  omission  ;  but  in  the  present  instance, 
the  accounts  of  the  administrator  at  least  ought 
to  have  mentioned  somevrhere  in  them  the 
mortgage,  as  the  administrator  has  closed  his 
accounts,  and  the  plaintiff  who  is  the  widow  of 
the  Intestate,  alleged  that  the  administrator 
delivered  it  (the  land  or  mortgage)  over  to  her 
at  the  closing  of  the  Estate.  The  administra- 
tor ought  therefore  to  be  made  a  witness,  and 
examined  to  explain  this  omission.  The  plain- 
tiff appears  moreover  to  have  made  out  aprmci 
facie  case  to  call  for  the  defence,  and  the  evi- 
dence in  reply". — [Murray's  Reports,  pp,  84 
—87.] 


INDEX. 


Page.         Par, 

Absknce  of  a  party  to  a  suit     ...  ...  24,         1J3. 

on  Trial   day.  ...  ...  ...     36.         162. 

of  Proctor.  ...  ...  ...  ...     38.         l69. 

of  Proctor  no  ground  for  postponement  unless  un- 
avoidably absent.  ...  ...  ...     S4.         227 

of  inaterial  witnesses.  Postponements  on  account 
of  the,  ...  ...  .  ...     69.         291, 

of  Defendant.  Necessary  postponement.  Exparte 

hearing  on,  ...  ...  ...   100.         403. 

of  Counsel  or  Agent  may  be  a  ground  for  a  post- 
ponement. .  .  ...  ...    186.,        529. 

of  a  party  ie  not  in  all  cases  a   good  ground  for 
postponement.     The,  ...  ...   192.         531. 

,  the  S.  C.  directed  the  Proctor  to  pay  the  batta 
of  the  witnesses.  On  a  postponement  in   consequ- 
■ence  ofa  Proctor's,         ...  ...  ...   295.         644. 

Practice   in  cases  where  plaintiff  in  unavoidably 
absent   on    the   day    of  Trial.  I... 

Action  to  recover  money  due  and  unpaid.    .. 

Cause   of,.    Disputing  Plaintiffs  title. 

by  E.xecutor    for  money  belonging  to  third  parties. 

againt  Executor  of  an  Administrator. 

against   married  woman. 

Double,  for  land  and  for  mesne  profits. 

OB  a   deed  which  had  been  proved  to  be  a    forgery 

and  cancelled . 

on  an  agreement  respecting  Pearl  Fishery. 

for  the  cancellation  of  the  Banns  of    Marriage.  An- 
swer to  the  action. 

lor  breach   of  covenant. 

The  proxy  of  one  of   several  partners  is  sufficient  to 

authorize  an,     ...  ..  -•  -.•  240.         579 


340. 

727 

43. 

190. 

ib. 

'  192. 

69. 

288. 

88. 

363. 

102. 

412. 

107. 

426. 

133. 

454. 

137. 

463. 

206. 

549. 

227. 

563. 

[n.J 

Faff.         Pa,T, 

Action.  Where  a  debtor  of  a  firm  granted  a  bond  to  one  of 
the  partners  and  the  other  partner,  after  a  subse- 
quent dissolution  of  the  partnership  sued  the 
debtor,  fleWthat  the  Plaintiff  had,  no  right  of,  ...  241.  581. 
No,  lies  against  a  Surgeon  for  having  ordered  out 
the  plaintiif  from  a  room  in  which  the  former  was 
performing  his  duties  as  Vaccinator,  ... 
for  the  restitution  of  money  actually  paid.  Evidence. 
No,  is  maintainable  on  a  Lottery  ticket. 
An,  does  not  lie  for  including  property  in  an  In- 
ventory. 

is  commenced.    Costs  of  a  previous  action  must 
be  paid  before  a  new. 

Where    Sureties  have  been  illegally     proceeded 
against  their   remedy  is  by, 
against  Auctioneer.     .. 

Account  will  be  opened  upon  proof  of  error  or  oppression. 
A  settled. 

Accord  and  Satisfaction  how  pleaded  and  proved. 

ACKNOWLEDGHBNT    of    trUSt. 

of  a  balance  is  collateral  evidence    ' 
of  what  the  balance  is.    Written,  ...     70.        293 
of  title.   Possession.    Presumption  in 
favor  of  heir. 
Administration  to  widow. 

Want  of, 

Preferent  right  to,       ... 

Failing  to  tender  security. 

Prescription  against  Letters  of, 

A  party  when  precluded  from  questioning 

necessity  for, 

Agreement  of  widow  previous  to, 

of  deceased  wife's  estate.   Second  marriage.  52. 

pending  the  suit. 

Right  to, 

refused  to  a  Buddhist  Priest  . . . 

of  a  widow. 

to  a  widow.  Proof  of  marriage. 


24 1. 

585. 

i63. 

612. 

271. 

616. 

317. 

680. 

320. 

687. 

328. 

709. 

331. 

717. 

'11. 

315. 

677. 

280. 

624. 

4. 

16. 

87. 

360. 

15. 

74. 

». 

76. 

35. 

157. 

37. 

163- 

47. 

206. 

tS. 

t*. 

48. 

210. 

52. 

223. 

53. 

225. 

65. 

279. 

66. 

2B3. 

90. 

368. 

94. 

385 

Page. 

Far, 

94. 

386. 

.     96. 

397. 

..  114. 

439. 

..  181. 

520. 

Administration.  Parties  dying  abroad, 
refiised  to  the  widow, 
to  deceased  wife's  estate, 
to  creditor  with  consent  of  Executor, 
cannot  be  refused  at  any  period  after  the 
death  of  an  intestate.  Quf  How  far  it  may 
affect  a  division  already  made   among  the 
heirs.  ..  ...  ...  23S.         S69. 

was  unable  to  furnish  security,  but  was 
the  sole  next  to  the  deceased,  the  Court 
directed   a    limited    grant.     Where   it 
appeared  that  the  applicant  for,  ...  266.        614. 

rejected,  where  it    appeared  that   the 
deceased  had  died  about  50  years  ago, 
and  the  property  been  divided  amongst 
the  heirs.    Application  for,  ...  285.      633. 

It  is  only  in  extreme  cases,  the    Court 
would  prefer  the  Secretary  to  the  next 
of  kin. 

A  partition  decreed  in  the  course  of,     ... 
Administbatoh,  Defence  as, 

Costs  against,  for  a  false  plea. 
Adopted  children  joined  as,  ... 

Action  against  the  Executor  of  an. 
Neglect  of,  how  far  excused. 
An,  is  at  liberty  to  alienate  or  encumber 
the  whole  estate  entrusted  to  him. 
The  exbtence  of  other  debts  is  no  an- 
swer to  a  creditors  suit  against  an, 
,  except   on  a   regular  application.     The 
Court  will  not  interfere  with  the  proceed- 
ings of  an,  ...  ...  326.        703. 

for  his  share.    One  of  several  co-heirs  may 

sue  the,  ...  ...  ...  343.        734. 

ADMiNiSTEATEix  when  sued  for  funeral  expences  after  ac- 
count is  filed.  ...  ...     39.         176. 

Adopted  children  joined  as  Administrators...  ...     73.         e04. 

Advocat*.   a  judge  previously  engaged  ii3,  in  the  cause  ...     95.         388. 


307. 

665. 

319. 

684. 

44. 

192. 

71. 

29S. 

73. 

304. 

88. 

363. 

161. 

503. 

252. 

594, 

314. 

67«, 

Page. 

Par. 

3. 

15 

..     37. 

166. 

..     73. 

105, 

..     79. 

330. 

..      92. 

373. 

..      96. 

394. 

.     143 

473. 

..  161. 

S02. 

168, 

509. 

ADiMis.sioN.     Reiraction  of, 
of  debt, 
by  Defendant, 
of  part  payment, 
without  tender.     Costs, 
made  as  a  witness  in  a  former  action. 
of  the  debt.     Prescription  not  pleadable  after, 
of  a  party  should  be  taken  entire, 
of  a  party  how  far  binding. 
A  parol,    is  sufficient   under   the  proviso  in  the 
7th  Clause  of  the  Prescription  Ordinance.        ...  253.         597. 

of  one  co-defendant  does  not  bind  another  if  they 

put  in   separate   answers.    The     ...  ...  256,         601. 

in  an    Answer  do  not  operate  as  an  estoppel, 
except  in  certain  cases,  and  may   be  explained 
by  evidence.  ...  ...  ...  260.         607. 

Adverse  title.    Meaning  of  term.    Prescription...  ...     20.        103. 

PosBeseion.  ...  ...  ...     71,         298- 

A  party  claiming  title  by  prescription,  if  proved 
to  have  been  originally  a  mere  cultivator  is 
bound  to  shew  when  his  title  became,  ...    187.         529. 

totheother.  The  possession  of  a  joint  heir  is  not,.  271.         618. 
after  the  lapse  of  the  peiiod  fixed  for  redemption. 
Ten  years   possession   will  give,  him   a   title  by 
prescription.   Possessionof  mortgagee  becomes,...  281.         62S. 
Possession.     Compensation     for     building    and 
planting. 
AoENT  payment  to, 
Proctor's, 

Breach  of  contract.     Principal  and 
when  not  personally  liable,  . ,  . 

standing  security  for  his  Principal  . . 
for  share  in  the  profits.   Stipulation  by, 
Where  a  party  appears  by   Attorney,  the  D.  0. 
may  requiie  the  presence  of  the  party.  . 

An  Attorney  cannot  sue,  unless  expressly  authorized.  345. 
Agreemekt    misnamed.  .. 


312. 

673. 

13. 

65. 

79. 

329. 

148. 

483. 

149. 

ib. 

152. 

ih. 

156. 

494. 

324. 

696. 

345. 

738. 

9. 

134. 

Page. 

Par. 

.      48. 

210. 

.      80. 

332. 

.    137. 

463. 

.    139. 

ib.. 

.    143. 

475. 

240, 

57.9. 

111. 

428. 

115, 

443. 

12. 

59. 

5-2. 

222. 

AoREEMKNt    of  Widow  previous  to  administration.  . 

Non-acceptance  no, 

respecting  Pearl  Fiahery.     Action  on  an,     . 
may  be  presumed  though  the  defendant  has 
not  signed  it.     Mutuality  on  an, 
for  transfer  of  land.     Waiver  of, 
and  that  one  of  the  conditions  theieof  had 
been  broken  by  the  Plaintiff,  but  refused  to 
produce  the  agreement,  the  Court  entered  up 
judgment  for  the  Plaintiff.     In  an  action  for 
work  and  labour,  where  the  Defendant  plea- 
ded a  Written,  . .  . , 
Alteration  of  a  decree                             ..  .^, 
of  a  clerical  error  in  a  decree..  ., 
Alienation. 

Service  Parveny 
of  Service  Parveny  lands.  Effect  of   Reg  : 
No.  8  of  1809.  ..  ..    247.         587. 

of  Service  Parveny  lands.  Effect  of  Reg:  No. 
8   of   ISTO. 
Amendment  of  Libel  ...  .. 

of  Libel  a  fresh  summons  ought  to  issue.  On,  334, 
Motion  to  amend  must  be  on  cause  shewn  . . 
Answbb.   General  Denial. 

Statements  in  the  separate  answers  of  Defend-  -i 

ants  do  not  prejudice  each  other.       ..  ..93.         381. 

but  stated  no  special  circumstances  in  support 
of  his  prayer,  the  Court  refused  leave.  When 
after  a  general  denial  the  Defendant  prayed 
for  leave  to, 
Appropriation  of  payments. 
Appraisbment  of  a  Temple. 

The  Appraiser's  fee  is  a  charge  on  the 
KstatcT.  . ,  .  t 

.    ApI'EAl.  Revision.  .. 

Security  in. 

Objections  during  Trial, 
received  by  D,  C.  after  lapse  of  time.  Security  in, 


255. 

600. 

72. 

303. 

334, 

721. 

341. 

•   729. 

62. 

269. 

231. 

565. 

83. 

347. 

95, 

389. 

307. 

6(14] 

8. 

41. 

31. 

14-2. 

44. 

196. 

45. 

198. 

Page. 

Pa/r. 

,      45. 

199. 

.      46. 

203, 

.      ih. 

200. 

.     47. 

207. 

.     49. 

212. 

.      50. 

214. 

.      57. 

240. 

,     66. 

282. 

9.      74. 

309. 

e.    97. 

319. 

.      85. 

352. 

...     ib. 

355. 

..     96. 

396. 

103. 

415. 

..   141. 

468. 

..   186. 

S27. 

[vi.] 

Appeai  Judgment  of  S.  C.  binding  on  eecurity  in, 
under  Kule  6.  Sect.  8.      Merits.   . . 
after  lapse  of  time. .  •  • 

to  Privy  Council    .. 
to  Privy  Council     ...  •• 

to  Piivy  Council.  Fresh  evidence  in  Review  before 
Supreme  Court 

to  Privy  Council.     Value  of  the  property 
in  forma  pauperis 

in  forma  pauperis.     Provision  as  to  future  Costs, 
to  Privy  Council  may  lie  against  a  suit  for  a  divorce. 
False  evidence  no  ground  of,     . . 
Against  Interlocutory  Order. 
Trial  pending  Interlocutory, 
Against  a  decree  founded  on  evidence. 
Res  Judicata  in  the  absence  of, 
A  woman  under  coverture  cannot, 
.  Grounds  for  a  postponement.     Discretion  of  the 
Court  below  open  to  revision  in,  -..   186.         528. 

cannot  be  accepted  after  the  appointed  time,  unless 
by  consent     Security  in,  ...  ...   194.         535. 

The  S.  C.  vfiU  decide  on  all  Interlocutory  Orders, 

with  the  assent  of  parties,  and  also  in  Criminal,  . .    200.         S39. 

The  S.C.  will  not  alter  a  judgment  where  the  party 

aggrieved  thereby  has  not  appealed.  ...  202.         543. 

.  The  appeal  being  frivolous  the  appellant  was  cast 
in  double  costs.     Where  a  Judgment  has  been  en- 
tered against  a  Defendant  without  notice,  his  reme- 
dy is  not  by,  ..  ..    243.         683. 

to  the  S.  C,  and  not  by  a  fresh  action.  The  reme- 
dy against  any  omission  or  defect  in  the  Judgment 
ofaD.  C.  is,  ...  ..    248.         589, 

on  the  ground  that  the  Appellant's  witnesses  were 

tampered  with,  ...  ...  283.         629. 

Tvas  owing  to  the  adjournment  of  the  D.   C.     The 

course  adopted  where  an  Appellant's  failure  to.  ..    285.         635. 

The  S.  C,  will  under  certain  circumstanceB  stay  ex- 


309. 

670. 

318. 

682. 

320. 

688. 

323. 

690. 

.  323 

691. 

325. 

697. 

325. 

699. 

326. 

702. 

[vii.] 

Page.         Par. 
ecution  pending,  ..  ..   2a7.        640. 

Appeal  through  ignorance,  the  S.  C.  allowed  him  to  do  so 
after  the  limited  time.     Where   a   party  failed  to 
give  security  in,  . .  . .    298.         649. 

dispensed  with  where  the  property   sequestered  is 
cufficient  to  cover  the  judgment  and   costs.     Secu- 
rity in,         ..  ..  ,.  ...  307.  666, 

Costs  disallowed  for  improper  language  in  the  Pe- 
tition of,      ...  .,  .. 

to  Privy  Council.     Procedure  on  abandonment  , 
to  Privy  Council.  Procedure  on   abandonment  . 
to  Privy  Council.  Security  in  Appeal, 
to  Privy  Council.    Security  in  Appeal.    ... 

to  Privy  Council.     Procedure. 

The  S.  C.  refused  to  en'ertain  an  objection  which 

was  not  made  a  ground  of. 

Joinder  of  parties  ordered  on, 

to  Privy  Council.     A  surety   dying  the  S.  C.  will 

accept  another  in  his  stead.  ...  ..  330.         713, 

Appkllant    no  ground  for  a  new  triaL     Non-production 

of  evidence  by,  ...  ..  ..    135.         456. 

Arbitration.  ...  ..  ...  ..       3.  10. 

Reference  to,         ...  ...  ...      18.  95. 

Keference  to,         .,  ...  ...     31.        141. 

Suitoia  cannot  be  forced  to,     ...  ...     48.        209. 

.  Their  signatures   to  such  consent  should 
appear  on  the   proceedings.     Reference  by 
parties  to  a  suit  to,  ...  ...     SO.        217, 

Forms  of  reference  to,  ...  ...     67.        286. 

.  Want  of  assent  of  the  parties.  ...     80.        335, 

is  void  by  death  of  one  of  the  Arbitrators.  A 

submission  to,        ...  ...  ...   154.         487. 

Ambiguity  on  reference  to,       ...  ..    158.        499. 

cannot  afterwards  dissent  from  the  decision, 
merely  because  it  is  against  him.  A  parry 
who  has  consented  to  a  reference  to,  ...  252.        595. 

Arbitkator.   Report  of  the,  ...  ...     80.         335, 


[viii.] 

fage.         Paf 
^KBirnAToS.  A  submission  to   arbitration  is    void  by    the 

death  of  one  of  the,  ..  ..    154.         487. 

It  is  irregulai  for  a  D.  J.  to  sit  as  an,  . ,    252.         595. 

or  Umpire.  The  D.  J.  cannot,  without  the  eon- 
sent  of  the  parties,  appoint  ail,  ...   296.        645. 
Articles  of  War  allow  of  an,  action  but    do  not  permit 

execution.  ...  ...  238.  573. 

Arrest.  Qu  ?   Whether  an,   before  the    expiration  of  the 
period  allowed  for  appeal  would  be  a  false 
arrest.  ...  ...  239.         57S. 

A.S6ESSOH8.  •■-  •••  ...      17.  86. 

Omission  in  the  proceedings  of  the  names  of,     ...     96.         395. 

AsRBNT  to  a  sale  of  land  . .  ...«  54.         229, 

Assignment  of  a  debt...  ...  ...     70.         294, 

AswBDDUMizEn  the  land  of  another,    ^u .'  Aa  to  the  rights 

of  a  party  who  has,  ..  .185.         525. 

another's   land   with  hir    assent.    Right   of 

a   party  who,  -  .  ...    199.         538 

Attempt.    Intention  ...  ...     14.  71. 

Attachment  against  a  Court  Officer.  ...   140.         464. 

Attesting  witnesses.  Pioof  of  a  Bond.   Comparison  of 

Handwriting ...   !77.         SIS. 

does  not  dispense  with  legal  proof. 

The  death  of  all  the,   ...  ...  306.  663. 

Attendance   of   parties   and    witnesses,   the   Court    will 
in  view  of  the  customs  of  the  country  respect 
their   feelings.    In  directing  the,  ...  238,         575. 

Authority  of  a  party  to  sue  in  behalf  of  another.  ...   135.         455 

to  Act  3.B  Curator  ad  litem.  ...   164.         507. 

to  act  a.a  Curatoi  ad  litem.  ...   183.         523- 

AuTHENTioiiv    of  documents  presumed.      ..  ..    178.         516. 

AucTiONEBR  is  entitled  to  detain  the  purchase  money  till 
the  transfer  is  completed.    Payment  of  purchase 
money.    An,  ..  ...     52.         221. 

Liability  of,  ...  ..     63.        272. 

Action  against,  ...  ...  331.        717 

Award  after  their  voluntary  submission  to   Arbitration. 

Suitors  cannot  object  to  an,  ...  ...     48.        209. 


Pa^e.        Par. 
Award  not  signed  by  a?nhe  Arbitrators  is  void.    An,      ...   154.        487- 

BiTTicALOA.  Liability   of  a  wi^e   at,                             ..      62.         267, 
property   acquired  during   coverture   comes 
info  community,  and  is  under  the  sole  con- 
trol of  the  husband.     In,  261.         610. 

Banns  of  Marbiage.  Proceedings  upon  opposition  to,     ...     85.        354. 
.  Estate  of  a  predeceased  parents  left, 
unsettled.  ...  ...   182.         521. 

.  Answer  to  the  action.  Action  for  the 

cancellation  of  the,  ...206.         .549. 

dBAliEE  who  IS  not  to  receive  any   renumeration   for   the 

custody  of  the  property,  is  not  bound  to  take  that 

scrupulous  care   of  it,  which   wovild  otherwise  be 

required  of  him.     A,  .  ...  241.         580. 

"Batikruptcy.   Who   air  entitled  to  the  custody  of  Letter 

Books  of  a  bankrupt    ...  ..   249.         592. 

The  D-  C.  cannot  take  the  initiative  in  any 

act  connected  with  tile,  ...     ih  ib 

Batta  of  the  witnessep.  On  a  postponement  in  consequ- 
ence of  a  Proctor's  absence,  the  S.  C.  directed  the 
Proctor  to  pay  the, 

Witnesses  living  4  miles  of  the  Court  not  entitled  to,  328. 
Bequest.  Verbal,  .. 

Verbal, 
Oral,  of  real  and  personal  property. 

Bill  of  Exchange 
Bond.  Prescription. 

by  one  Partner.  ., 

Consideration  and  Variance  of, 

jMisnamed. 

Prescription   against,  ., 

Proof  of  payment. 

from  creditor.      Action  to  recover   a  paid, 

Proof  of  payment. 


295. 

644. 

S28. 

703. 

82. 

.344 

101. 

407. 

175. 

514. 

12. 

61. 

4. 

18. 

7. 

34. 

12, 

61. 

25, 

62. 

2.<). 

134. 

ih 

ih 

7,1. 

164, 

ih 

ih 

79. 

330. 

Page. 

Par. 

103. 

417. 

..  129. 

446. 

JoND.   not  passed  before  a  Notary,    Personal, 
.  PieBcription. 

.  Attesting  witnesses.     Comparison  of  Handwriting. 

Proofof  a,  ...  ...  177.        SIS. 

.  Minor  discrepancies  in  evidence.  Authenticity  of 
documents  presumed.  Comparision  of  Handwriting. 
Proof  of  a,  ..  ...   178.        616. 

theCourt  may  decree  interest,  though  not  claimed  in 

the  Libel.    Where  the  plaintiff  proceeds  on  a  Penal,  238,        574. 

to  one  of  the  ;i:r  ,-  js,  and  theother  partner  after 
subsequent  li.tL  n  of  partnership  sued  the  debtor 
for  the  amount,  Meld  that  the  plaintiff  had  no 
light   of  action.     Where   a   debtor  granted,       ..    241,         S81. 

is  not  necessary,  where  a  constructive  delivery  has 

been  proved.    Proof  of  actual  delivery  of  the,     ,.   287.         640. 

BcDDaisT  Priest's  property  ...  ...     13.  62, 

.  Administration  refused  to  a,  ...     66.        283, 

.  Appeal  in  formS.  pauperishy  a,     ...      ib.         282. 

Case.  j.'ransfer  of  cases.                          ...                        ...  36.  160. 

should  be  specified.     Grounds  for  striking  off  a,  ,o  l53.  483. 

Application  for  a  postponement.     Striking  off    -d,  86.  356. 

Transfer  of  cases  on  establishment  of  new  Courts.  92.  374 

instituted  in  a  wrong  Court,    Transfer  of  a,         ...  i4  375. 

by  a  mere  endorsement  on  the  Libel,  although 
such  Libel  discloses  no  sufficient  cause  of  action. 
A.  D.  J.  cannot  dismiss  a, 

CiRToiHs.    Registry  of, 

inadmissible    in   evidence.     Copies    of, 
Stamp. 
'Cattle  trespass. 

for  several  generations.     It  is  a  known  practice  for  3 

family  to  hold  a  drove  of,  ...  ...  226.         562, 

1..ABT-R0AD  on  indemnifying  the  owners  whose  lands  are 
taken  for  that  purpose.  Every  village  is  en- 
titled to  have  a,  ...  ..    194.         534 


:43. 

591. 

40. 

178. 

ib 

179. 

56. 

237, 

54. 

228. 

Cxi.] 

Page.         Far. 
Carrier.     Obligation  of,  ...  ..     78.        323. 

Cession  of  Action  from  creditor  to  surety.  ...     99.         402. 

when  necessary.  ...  108,        427. 

.  Evidence  of  payment  as  against  third 
parties.     Case  referred   back   foi'   Fit. 
to  obtain,  ..    110.         427. 

from  the  creditor,   held  entitled  to  the 
rights  of  the  creditor  on  proving  the  due 
payment  of  the  debt.      A    co-obligor 
having  p,ending  his  action  for  contribu'^ 
tion  obtained  a,  ..   223,        557. 

need  not  be  made  at  the  time   of  pay- 
ment. The,  ..   265.        599-; 
A  party  paying  a  prior-  mortgagee  is  en- 
titled to  stand  in  his  place  without,    ..   300.        652. 
Childbbn's  share                        ,,  ..       8,  43. 
Rights  of.                      ..                                ...     69.        290. 

joined  as  AdministratotB.    Adopted^  ..     73,        304. 

of  a  predeceased  spouse  on  the  property  of  th» 
survivor  amounts  merely  to  a  mortgage,  giving 
them  priority  in  respectof'theirshareover'subse- 
quent  creditors  or  purchasers.  The  claim  of  the,  188. 
Character.  Injury  to. 
Civil  action  after  Criminal  prosecution. 

and  Criminal  suit  for  same  act. 
Cinnamon  grounds.    Diielietion   of, 

grounds.    Prescription.    Possession  of. 
Circular',  Letter  not  binding  as  a  Rule  unless  &«.    A, 
Claim      not  tendered.    Costs. 

of  Specific  performance.  . , 

under  Edictile  Citation.  . . 

founded  on  sale  and  possession 

for  increased  damages.    Subsequent, 

Several  claims  in  the   same  suit.     Prayer  for 

general  relief.    Costs.  ..  ..    102.         411. 

for  a  specific  sum.     Subsequent  arrears.     Prayer 

for  general  relief  ...  ..    H3.         433. 

for  damages  for  breach  of  coYeuant  .,   218,        556. 


188. 

530. 

58. 

243. 

42. 

186. 

%h 

188 

7S. 

314. 

76. 

317. 

323. 

692. 

37. 

166. 

145. 

475. 

64. 

273. 

73. 

305. 

91. 

371. 

ClAiMANTS  to  property  seized  in  execution.     Eights  of. 
Confiscation.    Crown. 


ige. 

rar. 

260, 

608 

1. 

3. 

8. 

42. 

14. 

72. 

16. 

82. 

69. 

290. 

74. 

312. 

2. 

7. 

12. 

59. 

17. 

85. 

2  2. 

109f 

32. 

146. 

115. 

441. 

14. 

70, 

154. 

489, 

162. 

505. 

171. 

513, 

175. 

J4. 

.  Fictitous  transfer,  . . 

of  Tenrple.     Gifts  by  Priests. 

.  Delay  on  tlie  part  of  Govt.  Officers,     . . 
CoNDiTloM   executory 

•  Third  parties 

*  Over-plus  upon  resale. 
Implied. 

not  binding  on  third  parties. 
Con  TEMiT  OP  Court.  Second  Claim 

-  A  paity  suppressing  his  own  claim 
to  assist  another. 

■  Indecorous  observations  on  a  D.  C. 
•  Remonstrance  against  an  order  of 
the  S.  C, 


A  party  who  under  proceedings  of 
Court,  but  without  notice  to  a  clai- 
mant, sells  an  estate,  after  having  op- 
posed a  previous  sale  by  the  claimant 
under  proceadings  of  another  Court,  is 
guilty  of  contempt  cf  the  latter  Court,  204.         547.- 

Where  the  real  party  entitled  to  the 
properly  in  dispute,  puts  forward 
other  claimants,  in  order  to  get  him- 
self called  as  a  witness,  he  may  be 
punished^summarily  as  for, 

CcNSIDEBATION    of    a     Bcod  ..  ,, 

Want   of,  ..  ,, 

Slutual  consenl  a  sufficient,  , , 

in  a   Deed   of  Gift,      Compensation    of 
profits  and  expences,       Failure  of, 
Burthen  of  Proof,   Want  of, 
Concealment  of  property 


215. 

555. 

25. 

117. 

85, 

353. 

140, 

4o3, 

141, 

466. 

317. 

681. 

23. 

112. 

Costs.   Double, 

Several  Defendai.ts 

Several  Plaintiifa 

Recommendation    to   recover, 

for   filing   two   answers.     Proctor's, 

One  of  several  Defendants  condemned  in, 

in  sequestration. 

Double.,    as   a  punishment   for   false   statements 

A  D.  C.  cannot  impose  it  for  an  unfounded  action. 

in  an  action  for  Libel  where  damages  were  notawarded.  55 

where  plciintiff  had  established  the  greater  part  of  his 
claim.  . . 

Breach  of  Promise  of  Marriage. 
Interlocutory  Appeal. 

when  Pit.  succeeds  in  the  main  object  of  his  suit  .. 

.  Appeal  171  forma  pauperis.  Provision  as  to  future. 


Page. 

Par. 

.     25. 

117. 

.     26, 

122. 

.     62. 

268. 

.     33. 

150. 

.     42. 

189. 

.     46, 

200. 

..       ib 

202. 

1. 

.      SS. 

224. 

ed.55. 

232. 

is 

,.      ib 

233. 

..     57. 

239. 

..     58. 

243. 

..     00. 

256. 

,  .     74, 

309. 

...      78. 

324. 

,.      81. 

339. 

...      91. 

372. 

...        ib 

373. 

...     93. 

378. 

...       ib 

383. 

..      94. 

384. 

..    107. 

425. 

..    155. 

490. 

..    158. 

428. 

Postponement  on  payment  of, 

Higher  class 

Admission  without  tender. 

Nominal   damages 

Division  of, 

Division  of,  . .  , . 

Dishonest  concealment. 

Increased, 

Modification  of  a  decree. 

against  a   party   who    had  been   dropped   in   the 

course   of  the   proceedings.  ..        ib         500. 

of  a  party  who   has  been  dropped   in  the  course  of 

the    proceedings.  ...   171.         515 

Contradictory  statement   of  plaintiff.  ..    176.         514. 

decreed   against   several  Defts.   are   a    joint    and 

several   debt.  .,   203.         545. 

A  party  who  has  been  admitted  to  sue  in  forma 
pauperis  cannot  be  called  upon  to  give  security  for 
costs.  But  if  cast  in  costs  execution  may  be  issued 
against  his   person.  ,.  .,231.        564. 


[xiv.] 

fage        Par, 

CoiTi.  Double,  for  MvoIoub  appeal  ...  ...  343.        583 

;  yet  the  Court  will  look  to  the  whole  merits  of  the 

case  and  the  conduct  of  the  parties  in  determining 

whether  the'costs  should  be  in  the  original  class,  or 

in  that  of  the  amount  of  the  judgment.    Though 

the  amount  of  damages  ultimately  decreed  is  an 

important  criterion  in  awarding,  ...  25 1.         593. 

The  poverty  of  the  plaintiff  fiirnishes  no  ground  to 

compel^him  to  find  security  for,.  ...  286.        637 

disallowed  for  improper  language  in  the  Petition  of 

Appeal  ...  ...  309.        670. 

of  a  previous  action  must  be  paid  before  a  new  ac- 
tion is  commenced.  ..  ...  320,        687. 

Triple,   Qa?  Whether  the  D.  C.  can  award,   ...  324.        694. 

of  Defts.  who  have  been  vexatiously  made  parties. 

Pit.   condemned  in  the,  ...  328.        707. 

Claiming  more  than  is  due  is  no  ground  for  distais- 

sal,  but  may  affect  the. 

Conviction.    Clause  of  the  Regulation 

Contract.^  Implied, 
with  Servant, 
with   Medical  Practitioner. 
.Marriage;.  Stamp.    Frauds  and  Perjuries 
Breach  of,.   Principal   and  Agent. 

CoLLECTivB  Decision.    Review... 

CoNBPiBACY.    A  party  suppressing  his  own  claim  to  assist 
another's 

Collation.    Dowry.] 

Commission  on  deposit  ..^ 

Communication.   Privileged, 

Co-OBLiGOB  paying  on  behalf  of  his  co-obligors, 
payii^  in  his  own  name 
taking  cession  succeeds  to  the  creditors  rights. 
A,  .having  pending  his  action  for  contribution, 
obtained  a  cession  of  action  from  the  creditor, 
"held  entitled  to  the  rights  of  the  creditor,  on 
proving  the  due  dayment  of  the  debt.  ..   233.        557. 

Co-HiiRS    {Viic  Heirs.) 


843. 

734. 

34. 

151. 

39. 

174. 

41. 

180. 

68. 

287, 

97. 

398. 

148. 

483. 

50. 

215. 

154. 

489. 

57. 

241. 

65. 

277. 

79. 

329. 

109. 

427. 

•& 

ih. 

«. 

.a. 

[XT.] 

Page.        Par 
CoNviTANCB  by  the  Fiscal.    Injunction  issued  by  the  S.  C. 

to  prevent  the  delivery  of  a,         ...  ...  201.        S4I. 

Covenant  .  A  claim  of  damages  for  breach  of,  ..   218.        SS6. 

An  action  for  breach  of,  ..  ...227.        563. 

Crbditobs.  Priority  of  ...  ...     17.  87. 

Priority  of,  ...  ...     77.        322. 

Preference  among,.  Judgment.  Execution  ...  105.        422. 
with  consent  of  Executor.  Administration  to  a,  181.         520. 
or  purchasers.     '   le  claim  of  the  childrsn  of  a 
predeceased  spouse  on  the  property  of  the  sur- 
vivor amounts  mersly  to  a  r?oitgage  giving 
them  priority  in  re»pect  of  il' \r  share  over 
subsequent,  ...  ...   188.         530. 

by  discharging  the  principal  from  gaol,  without 
the  consent  of  the  surety,  thereby   discharge! 
the  surety .     A,  ...  ...  193.        S3S. 

Criminal  Appeals.  The  S.C.will  decide  on  all  Interlocu- 
tory Orders,  without  the  assent  of  parties, 
and  also  in, 

CCSTOM. 

of  Merchants 
Kight  of  incoming  tenant 
of  Eatnapoora  in  respect  oi  Nille  tenure 
of  the  Country  respect  their  feelings.     In  direct- 
ing the  attendance  of  parties  and  witnesses  the 
Court  will  in  view  of  the,         ..  ...  ' 

CtTBATOR  ad  litem.    Authority  to  act  as, 

.  Authority  to  act  as,  . . 

D AM AGBS.  Action  for,.    Honorable  amends.     Costs. 

by  breach  of  Marriage  Contract.   Failing  to 

shew,  ...  • » 

during  voyage.     Proof, 

Costs.. 

Subsequent  claim  for  incieased, 

Costs.     Nominal, 

than  is  claimed,  in  the  absence  of  a  prayer  for 

general  relief.  A  Court  cannot  award,  more,... 

Interest  on  intended  shipment 


200. 

539. 

2. 

6. 

150. 

483. 

101. 

406. 

147. 

477. 

936. 

575. 

164. 

507. 

183. 

523. 

53. 

226. 

58. 

245. 

78. 

323. 

ib 

324, 

91. 

371. 

93. 

378. 

140. 

463. 

152. 

483 

[xvl.] 

D.iMjiBBS     for  breach    of  covenant.   Claim  of, 

is  peculiar  to  the  Law  of  England.     The  differ- 
ence between  Penalty  and  Liquidated, 
Where  the  Court  refused  to  give, 
.  Costs. 
Decree.    Force  of. 

Third  parties  

Third    party,  . . 

Third  parties. 

Eecommendation  to  recover  costs, 
when  binding  on  third  parties. 
Third  parties.  ., 

on  contradictory  evidence  and  on  possession  prov- 
ed though  not  pleaded.    Reversal  of  a, 
Third  parties. 

not  binding  on  the  third  parties  (not  being  Inter- 
venientsj  . .  , . 

not  binding  on  a  third  party, 
•  Power  of  District  Courts 

Alteration  of  a,  . .  . . 

'  Alteration  of  a  clerical  error  in  a,... 
Former,.     Authority  of  a  party  to  sue  on  behalf 
•of  another,  ...  .. 

Costs  on  modfication  of  a, 

A.  D.  C.  may  alter  its  Inteilocutory  Orders,  but 
not  its  Final, 

Final,   in  Parlett  u,  Petachy  Chetty. 
after  a  lap«e  of  two  months,  disallowed.     Appli- 
cation to  amend  a  written, 
Marginal  observations  by  D.  .7.  on  the  S.  C. 
already  pronounced.  The  S.  C.  will  correct  a  ma- 
nifest erroT  in  a, 
Deeus.    Writer  of  a  deed. 

Proof  of  a   deed.     Material  evidence. 

Priority  of,  , , 

Possession  of  deed. 

Construction  of  deed. 

Possession   of  Title-deed 

A  deed  30  years  old  need  not  be  proved. 


Page. 

Pc». 

..  218. 

556. 

r- 

.   219. 

ib. 

..  228, 

563 

.    251. 

593. 

..       4. 

20. 

.        9. 

47 

.      19. 

98. 

.      31. 

140, 

.      33. 

ISO. 

.      41, 

182. 

..     62. 

265. 

.      80. 

333. 

..     ib, 

334, 

81. 

33€. 

.     86. 

357. 

.  loo. 

405, 

,    111, 

428. 

.  115. 

443, 

I 

135. 

455. 

158. 

498. 

.  193. 

532. 

.  225. 

559. 

I- 

,    258. 

604. 

.  283. 

629. 

.   298. 

648. 

.       5. 

26. 

.       6. 

28. 

,      26. 

124. 

.     32. 

144. 

ib 

146, 

,     34. 

154. 

.     88. 

362. 

[ivii.] 

Ptge.        Ptir. 

»Beeds     Proof  of  deed  . .  ^.      93.         382. 

Date  of  deed.  Delivery.  ..  ...     94.         387. 

A  deed  is  void  foi  want  of  proper  stamp  ...     95.         391. 

Keluctance  to  produce  a  deed,  erasures  and  alte- 

-rations  thereon  are  euspicions  against   Pit's   title 

and  genuiness  of  the  deed  ..  ...     96.         392. 

Action  on  a  deed  which  had   been  proved   to  be 

be  a  a  forgery  and  been  cancelled.  ...   Ii3.         454. 

'Cancellation  of  a  Deed  of  Gift  signed   under  a 
■wrong  impression.  Failure  of  consideration.  Com- 
pensation of  profits  and  expences        ...  ...  141.        496. 

of  30  years  standing. do  not  require  proof,  yet  the 
rule  is  open  to  exception  whenever  the  deed  is  of 
a  suspicious  nature.  Though  as  a  general  rule,  ...  246.         586. 

Execution  of  a  deed  on  a  Sunday,  and  the  failure 

to  number  and  file  the  duplicate  copy  of  a  Bond 

do  not  render  the  instrument  invalid. 

Dkmurreb 

©ESERTION  of  wife 

Delivery  of  Deeds 
Demand.  Previous, 
■©EFEND-tNTs.  Several,.  Costs. 

Keside  in  several  Districts.  .Tuiisdiction  where, 

Trespass.     Joint  and  several  liability  of, 

does  not  prejudice  each  other.     Statements  in 

separate  answers  of, 

right  to  insist  upon  legdl  proof 

"Debt.  Admission  of  a, 

by  debtor.     Assignment  of  a. 

Notes  of  Hand'  how  far  conclusive  as  proof  of  the, 

Costs  decreed  against  several  Defts.  is  a  joint  and 

seveial, 
■Defamation  .. 

Action  for,.     Variance  in  respect  of  the  ex- 
pressions used, 
Action  for,.     Defence  4e. 
Action  for,.  Where  two  or  more  persons  con- 
spire unlawfully  to  injure   another,  all  the 
acts  of  one  in  furtherance   of  the  common 


260. 

609. 

19. 

99. 

22. 

108. 

26. 

'124. 

30. 

139. 

26. 

122. 

in. 

197. 

92. 

377. 

93. 

381. 

113. 

434. 

37. 

166. 

70. 

294. 

156. 

4S5. 

203 

345. 

3B. 

172. 

93. 

379. 

117. 

444- 

[[xviii.] 

Page.        Par. 
design,  may  be  given  in  evidence  against  the 
other.     Form  of  libel  in  such  a   case 
DSFENCE  aB  Admr. 

•  General  denial 

to  an  action  brought  by  Executor    ... 
Evidence  of  a  good  prima  facAe, 
DBFAUtT  Deft,  in. 

Deft.  in,.     la  not  entitled  to  go  into  evidence  ex- 
cept to  disprove  the  evidence  addnced  by  the  Pit. 
of  Defts.  after  issue  joined. 
Deniai.  General, 
Deposit.  Commission  on  a, 
Depository  FOR  LOSS.    Liability  of, 
Pbposihons.   Mode  of  recording,  ,. 

Debtor  Where  a.,  of  a  firm  granted  a  Bond  to  one  of  the 
partners  and  the  other  partner,  after  a  subsequent 
dissolution  of  the  Partnerahip  sued  the  debtor  for 
the  amount.  Held  that  the  Pit.  had  no  right  of 
action.  .,  ...  241.         581. 

Dbbtoe  and  Suretv.  a  surety  paying  the  debt  is  entited 
to  stand  in  the  place  of  the  creditor 

Dismissal. 

•  Non-suit 

•  Non-suit 
Grounds  for, 

A   D.  C.  cannot  set  aside  its  own, 
after  evidence  heard.     Res  Judicata. 


259. 

606. 

44. 

192- 

47. 

204 

69. 

288. 

136. 

460. 

44. 

193. 

52. 

220, 

66. 

280. 

62. 

269. 

65, 

277. 

ib. 

ib. 

US. 

442. 

but  may  affect  the  costs.    Claiming  more  than 

is  due  is  no  ground  for, 
District  Courts  cannot  rescind  their  own  orders. 
Jurisdiction  of. 
Matrimonial  Jurisdiction  of. 
Powers  of, 

.Kightsof,.  Increased  costs. 
The,,  have  discretion  to  allow  the  examina- 
tion of  a  party  or  his  Proctor  at  *ny  stage 
of  the  case,  provided  the  questions  are 
relevant  ...  ...   195.         536. 


255. 

599, 

21. 

104. 

29. 

133. 

42. 

184, 

59. 

252. 

90. 

367. 

104. 

420. 

343 

734. 

60. 

257. 

71. 

296. 

76. 

318. 

J  00. 

4U5. 

155. 

490, 

n. 

296. 

93. 

383- 

H. 

384. 

235. 

569. 

77. 

319. 

79. 

327. 

81. 

337. 

[xix.] 

Pagf.         j-ar. 
OisTaicr  Courts  A  D.C.cxntiotgive  Juigmexit  ultra petifa  284,        630. 
The  D.  C.  cannot  stop  a  case  on  an  excep- 
tion not  taken  by  the  parties  ...  317.         678. 

A    D.  C.    cannot  grant  Pafate  Execution, 
or  appoint  a  Commission  unless  authorized 
by  law.  ...  ...  324.         695. 

Qn  ?     Whether  the  D.   C.  can  award  tri- 
ple costs.'  ..  ...       ib.         694. 

Division  of  the  Island 
of  costs 

of  COStf 

already  made  among  the  heirs.     Administration 
cannot  be  refused  at  any  period  after  the  death 
of  an  intestate,  Qu  ?  How  far  It  may  affect  a,  ~,  ' 
Divorce.  Suit  for  a,.    Appeal  to  Privy  Council  .„. 

District  Judge  cannot  alter  his  own  decree.     A,  „_ 

over  Proctors.     Power  of,  „„ 

is  bound  to  record  reasons  for  rejection  of 
evidence.     A,  ^„  „_   143.         472. 

cannot  prosecute  a  suit  in  the  former  ca- 
pacity before  himself  in  the  latter.  A 
person  who  is  both  CustomMaster,  and,_»  203,        546, 

cannot  dismiss  a  case  by  a  moTe  endeirse- 
ment  on  the  Libel,  although  such  Libel  dis- 
closes no  sufficient  cause  of  action.     A, 2^8.  591 

cannot  without  the  consent  of  the  parties 

appoint  an  Arbitrator  or  Umpire.  The, 296.  645. 

signature  is  necessary  to  every  Order.  The  339.  725. 

Dishonest  concealment  —  107.  425. 

Ditch     on  his  own  land  so  as  to  injure  his  neighbour's 

fenc.     A  party  cannot  cut  a,  —  —  336.  722. 

Donation  —  8,.  „„    32.  146. 

Dowry.      Collation  —  .„    57.  241, 

Double   Action  for  land  and  for  mesne  profits  —  107.  426. 

PuTrn  Law.  Non-exercise  of  rights  under  the  Eoman- -..     61.  261, 
Rule  of  Community.     The  wife's   half  share 

devolves  on  her  children    though  illigifimate  239,  650, 


Paye. 

Par, 

,,     49. 

211.- 

1- 

2+9._ 

.„     (J4. 

■273.- 

..       ib. 

2-74. 

Edjetilk  Citation.  Amendment  of  application 

PosseBsion  how  established  and  citati- 
on how  published 
claim  under, 

Force  of  certificate  of  quiet  possession^ 
A  certificate  of  quiet  possession,  though 
not  concluBive  against  a,  subsequent 
claimant  who  can  satisfactorily  account 
for  his  silence,  is  conclusive  against  one 
whose  claim  has  been  set  aside.  „_  236.         570. 

Ejectment.  Title.  —  —  —      I.  -t. 

.  Landlord  and  Tenant      _„  —  100.        406. 

Forcible,.      Proclamition  of  5th  Angust  1819 
against  forcible  entry,  considered.  —  263.        6)3. 

ErtoPPEL.   A  party    to  a  fraudulent  deed  estopped  from 

disputing  the  rights  accruing  under  it.  134.        454. 

except  in  certain  cases ;  and  may  be  explained 
by  evidence.    Admissions  in  an  answer  do  not 


operate  as  an. 

— 

_„ 

260. 

607. 

EsTATB 

of  predeceased  parent  left  unsettled 



182. 

521. 

EVIBBNCB, 

False.,     New  Trial 





4. 

17. 

Bight  to  adduce. 

. 

— , 

S. 

24. 

Fresh.,    New  Trial 

^-.- 

9. 

45. 

Notes  of, 

-,- 

-,« 

10. 

50. 

in  a  former  suit 

,.,. 



IS. 

75. 

Conflicting, 

«„ 

^.. 

18. 

92. 

of  Insanity 



«« 

22. 

110. 

Dispensing  with. 



.-.- 

25. 

118. 

Documentary, 



2b. 

121. 

of  Marriage 

,.^. 

«^ 

27. 

125. 

of  Ownership 

«« 

29. 

133. 

Copies  of  Cartams 

inadmissible  in, 



40. 

179. 

■  Proof  of  seizure  in  execution 

..M 

44. 

195. 

Unnecessary,  when  the  existence  of  the 

docu- 

meiit  is     denied. 

Notice    to   produce 

Docu- 

mentary. 



^.^ 

50. 

216. 

of  Breach  of  Promise  of  Marriage 

^« 

S2. 

213, 

Deft,  in  default  if 

not  entitled  tii  go  inl 

:n,     -.« 

ib 

220, 

[xxl.] 

faye  I'^ar. 

Hudknle     -,„        ,.„        ™        _        „„        „        63.  269. 

of  payment.      Older  on  a  Shroff  no,                 64.  2Jfi. 

A  written   acknowledgment    of    a  balance  due 

and  letters  are  collateral,                  70.  294. 

and  Opinion  of  Interpreter  of  the  Court             72.  300- 

til  discredit   a   witness ji.  301. 

,  and  on   possession   proved  though  not  pleaded, 

Keversal  of  a  decree   on  contradictory,             80  333. 

Pniceedings  in  a  case  referred  back  for  further, 83.  346. 

False,  .    no   ground    of  Appeal,  85.  3S2. 

sfSecietary, —                          88.  364. 

.  Admissions  made  as  a  witness  in  a  former  action.     96.  394. 

•  .\ppeal  against  a  deeree  founded  on,               103.  415. 

of  payment.     Note  on  a  Shroff  not  conclusive, ih  416. 

upheld  by  S.  C.     Judgment  upon,                              ib.  418- 

Mode  of  reading  depositions                „.,             115.  442. 

in  disproof  of  a  prima  facie  right                         129.  446. 

by  Appellant  no  ground  for  a  new  trial.  Non- 
production  of,                13.).  456. 

of  a  good  primS  facie  defence              J  36.  460. 

A   D.J.  is  bound  to  record  reasons  for  rejection  of,  143.  472. 

Further.,  under  Rule  24  Sect.  I.          ~~             ib  474. 

Parole.,  of  Partnership         155.  494. 

necessary  to  support  an  action  for  goods  sold  and 

money  lent                   156.  496, 

Hearsay.,  Ancient  occupation.  Descent  or  An- 
cestry.               __             —                182.  522. 

A  sale  in  execution  how  established  in,             226.  56.. 

Parole.,   is  admissible  to  prove  3alistia.ction  of  a 

specialty          —           —                235.  567- 

of  a  witness  to  contradict  the  statement  of  a  party. 
The  D.  C.  if  it  proceeds  under  Bule  M.of  Sect.  1 

cannot  admit  the,                 —                 —     ib  568. 

The  Record  of  a  conviction  in  a  Criminal  prose- 
cution for  Assault  is  not  admissible  in  a  Civil  ac- 
tion for  the  same  Assault.  The  Surgeon's   receipt 

is  not  by  itself  evidence  of  his  attendance.        267.  603. 

Secondary,,  of  a  Deed  when  atlmissible««         258.  605 


[xxii.j 

Page.        Far 
Evidence  agaiast  the  other.     Where  two  or  more  pereons 
conspire  unlawfully  to  injure  another,  all  the  acts 
of  one  in  furtherance  of  the  common  design  may 
be  given  in,  —  ~~  -  -  259.        606, 

Admissions  in  an  answer  do  not  operate  as  an  es- 
toppel except  in  certain  cases ;  and   may  be  ex- 
plained by,  ,„  ~~  —  260.        607. 
-  Action  for  the  restitution  of  money  actually  paid  263.         612. 
The  privileges  of  the  Kandyans  do  not  extend  to 
the  Law  of,                  __                —  ...279.        621. 
Intervertient's  right  to  call,              -~  —  280.        624- 
Best,                             „                „.                 _  295.         624. 
An  oifer  of  compromise  unless  accompanied  with 
a  caution  that  it  is  confidential,  is  admissible  iu,  _  30 1 .         656. 
Procedure  on  a  lemand   for  further,            —  305.        660. 
Rules  as  to  production  of  Deeds  before  and  at 
the  Trial                        —                               -~  308.        668. 
of  Right  of  Way,                 ~~                       ™  310,        671, 

.  Want  of  consideration.  Burthen  of  Proof.      317.        681. 

Execution.  Sale  in,  —  ,~,     12.  60. 

agaiflat  person.  —  25.        120. 

how  established  in  evidence.     A  sale  in,       226.         561. 

may  be  issued  against  his  person.  A  party  who 
has  been  admitted  to  sue  in  farmS,  pauperis 
cannot  be  called  upon  to  give  secuiity  for  costs; 
but  if  cast  in  costs.  „_  „_  231.        564. 

The  Articles  of  War  allow  of  an  action,  but  do 

not  permit,  238.        573, 

Eights  of  claimants  to  property  seized  in;    260.        608. 

after  taking  the  Deft's  bond  for  a  part  of 
the  judgment  in  satisfaction  of  the  whole.    A 

Plaintiff  cannot  sue  out,  287.        640. 

pending  Appeal.  The  S.  C.  will  under  certain 
circumstances  stay,  „„      ib  ib 

Parate.,  or  appoint  a  Commission  unless  autho- 
rized by  Law.   A  D.C.  cannot  grant, 
ExEOUTOB  for  money  belonging  to  third  parties.  Action  by, 
for  a  false  plea,  Costs  against  an, 


324. 

633 

69. 

288- 

71. 

295 

fxxlii.'J 

Patje.         Pat. 

Executor  of  an  Administrator.     Costs  against  the,         ..     88.        363. 

Administration  to  creditor  with  consent  of,    ...  181.        620. 

by  a  Legatee.      Action  against  an,  ..    195.         537. 

ExpARTE   hearing  on  absence  of  Deft.    Necessary   post- 

poaement  ...  ..  ...   100.         403. 

Trial.     Proceedings  on,.  Qu  ?  If  the  Pit.  be  « 

married  women ?  ...  ...   324.         695. 

ExAMiN.iTiov    of  parties  ...  ...    129.         445. 

of  a  party  or  his  Proctor  at  any  stage  of  the 
case  provided  the  questions  are  relevanf. 
The  D.  C.  has  discretion  to  allow  the,     ..   195.         .536. 

of  parties.     Course  to  be  adopted  in  deci- 
ding cases  upon  the  pleadings  and,  ..   247,  587. 
of  parties,     Effect  of,                ...  ..279.  622, 
of  witnesses  not  on  the  List.  ...  342.  732 
Failure  of  consideration                         .,  ...  141.  466. 

False  Arrest  Qu  ?    Whether  an  arrest  before  the  ex- 
piration of  the  period  allowed  for  Appeal 
would  be  a,         ...  ...  ...  239.        576. 

Fictitious,  transfer  ...  ..  .14.  72, 

Fine,        A  party  to  a  suit  may  be  fined  . S7.         163. 

for  vexatious  appeal  132.        449. 

for  vexatious  appeal  136.        459. 

Fiscal's  Sale.   Non-payment  of  purchase  money  . 59.        248. 

Sale.  Opposition  by  the  creditor  72.        302. 

Sale.   Title  imder,  78.        325. 

Sale  and  Certificate  form  no  bar  to  other  claims  103.        413. 

Eetum  112.        430. 

Sale.   Claim  and    opposition,     Concellation  of 
Fiscal's  Certificate.    Order  for  consolidation  of 

two  suits  ..    129.         447. 

Injunction  issued  by  the  S.  C.  to  prevent  the  de- 
livery of  a  conveyance  by  the  Fiscal. 
Forma  Pauperis.  Suit  in, 

Application  to  defend  in, 
•  Former  decree.  Application  to  sue  in, 
Opposition  to  application  in, 
Appeal  in,  , . 


201. 

541. 

23. 

I;  2, 

39. 

175. 

42. 

185, 

47. 

205. 

66. 

282, 

[xxh'.J 

Fage.         Par. 

Forma   Pauperis.  Provisions  as  to  future  costs.  Appeal  in,     74.         309. 

Fresh  reference.     Petition  in,  ...     92.         7,1^. 

Petition  to  defend  in,  ...  ...   136.         460. 

allowed  in  spite  of  a   Proctor's    certifi- 
cate.    Defence  in,  ...  ..    147.         479. 

.  Mode   of  Procedure.     Application   tn 

sue  in,  ..  ..    170.         512. 

cannot  be  called  upon  to  give  security 

for  costs.     But  if  east  in  costs  execution 

may  be   issued  against  his  person.     A 

party  who  has  been  admitted  to  sue  in,  231.         .i64. 

should  be  made  on  the  first  appearance. 

Any  objection  to  sue  in,  ,, 

Foreign      Will 
FoHKiuNBE.  Security  for  Costs 
Form  of  reterence  to  Arbitration  ». 

of  suing  on  behalf  of  a  wife  .. 

Forged  deed.     Action  on  a. 
Former  decree, 
FoRFaaTURE  of  Nindegame  decreed  on   default  of  paying 

Ottoo 
Fradds    and  Perjuries. 


Contract  in  writing 

Beg.  of   Frauds 

Ueg.  of  Frauds  not  retrospective     ... 

Eeg.  of, 

Land, 

Reg.  of,.  Recovery  of  money  paid. 

Reg.  of,.  Sale  of  immoveable  property.  Contract 

in  writing.     Stamp.  ...  ...     88.         366. 

Statute  of  Frauds.     Objection  not  taken  in  Court 

below.  ...  ...  ...     95.         390. 

Stamp.   Marriage  Contract  ...  ..97.         398. 

Reg.  No,  1.  of  1806  does  not  act  retrospectively.  300.         653. 

Statute  of  Frauds.     A  contract  for  the   sale  of 

jjrowing  timber  must  be  in  writing  .    304.         65fli, 

Fraudulent  Deed      ...  ...  ..    134.        454. 

aFaEiGHT.        Booking  for,.    Liability  of  Master  thereon...   160,        483, 


253. 

596. 

.?5. 

156. 

49. 

213. 

67. 

286, 

382. 

7T8. 

133, 

454. 

135. 

455. 

327. 

706. 

3. 

l:. 

6. 

31. 

14. 

69. 

20. 

lei. 

25 

119. 

36, 

161. 

54. 

229. 

55. 

231. 

82. 

342. 

Page. 

Par. 

.     174. 

an. 

.      39. 

176. 

79. 

331- 

.       91. 

373. 

.     143. 

47*. 

6. 

29. 

.       10. 

S2. 

.       29. 

135. 

62. 

269. 

144. 

437. 

[xxv.] 

■Frivolous  litigation.    Punishment  for, 

'1"PNKRAL    EXPENCES 

incurred  for  illegitimate  husband 
■Further  relief.  Prayer  for,    ... 

evidence    under  Bute  21.   Sect.  I. 
Gansabe.  Award  of, 
Award  of. 
Jurisdiction  of, 
■General  Denial.    Answer. 


Burthen  of  proof.  Possession.  Title.  Value. 
Damages.  .-  ■■■  ib.        438. 

the  Deft,  prayed  for  leave  to  answer,   but 
stated   no     special    circumstances     in   sup- 
port   of    his    prayer,    the    Court  refused 
.leave.    When  after  a, 
iGiFT  and  possession.   Proof  of,  ..  .. 

by  a  priest. 

signed   under  a  wrong  impression.   Failure  of  consi- 
deration.     Compensation    of  profits  and  expenses. 
Cancellation  of  a  Deed  of,  .. 

of  more  then  donor  was  entitled  to...  .. 

Verbal,,  of  lands.  Heirs  when  estopped  from  disputing  a,  ib 
■Government  grant, 

Prejudice  to, 

.  General  hypothecation  of, 
Objection  by  a  third  party.    Kight  of  the. 
Proclamation. 

land.     Application  for  and  possession  of,  ... 
Renter.     Where  a,,  deprived  himself  of  a 
right  to  remission  of  rent,  ...  ...  205.        648. 

Goods  sold  and  money  lent.      What  evidence  necessary 

to  support  an  action  for,  ... 

Guarantee, 

Guardian.  Guardianship  of  children   on  the  decease  of 
a  wife. 
over  Pits  non  compos  mentis         ,.  . . 


231. 

565. 

S. 

25. 

16. 

82. 

141. 

466. 

153. 

485. 

a,  ib 

486. 

12. 

59. 

16. 

83. 

56. 

234. 

74. 

310. 

76. 

316. 

155. 

492. 

156. 

496. 

14. 

69. 

66. 

281. 

114. 

439. 

232 

5S6, 

fage.         Par 
Handwriting,  Comparison  of,.  Proof  of  a  Bond.  Attesting 

witnesses.  ..  ..  ..    177.         515. 

Comparison  of,.    Authenticity  of  documents 

presumed.  ..  ..  ...   178.         516. 

HaiRS,      Disinherison  by  deed  of  heir-at-law  ...       ,5.  23. 

Judgment  binding  on,  .,  ..      65.         278. 

Presumption  in  favor  of  heir.     Possession.     Ac- 
knoivledgment  of  title.  ..  ,,      87.         360. 

Kight  of  heir  pending  administration.  ..      104         419. 

when  estopped  from   disputing   a  verbal   bequest 
oflands.  .,  ...   153         486. 

of  wife  how  far  responsible  to  creditors  of  husband,  159,         501 . 
Male.    Service  Parveny,  No  prescription  against,  169.         509, 
Administration   cannot   be  refused  at  any  period 
after  the  death  of  an  intestate.  Q«.'  How  far  it  may 

aflect  a  division  already  made  among  the,  ...  235.         669, 

An  heir  who  takes  possession  of  the  property  ren- 
ders himself  liable  for  the  debts  of  the  intestate.  ..267.         615, 
The  posaesstion  of  one  joint  heir  is  not  adverse  to 
the  other,  ,,  ,,  ,,    271.         618. 

One  of  several  co-heirs  may  sue  the  Administrator 
for  his  share...  ,, 

Allegation  of  intestacy  where  the  Pit.  sues  as  heir,  341. 

One  of  seveial  co-heirs  may  sue  the   Administia- 
tor  for  his  share. 

HxAitsi^^  Evidence  Ancient  occupation  &c. 
Husband  AND  WiFB.   Separation.  Wife's  debts. 
Desertion  of  wife 

Liability  of  a  wife  at  Batticaloa     , . 
the  wife's  person  cannot  be  taken  up. 
On  a  Judgment  against, 
Form  of  suing  on  behalf  of  a  wife, , 
(  FM?e"KANDYANLAW.''"MAHOMEDAN  LAW."  "iHESEWALLBME.") 
Hypothecation  of  Govt.     General,  ,..  ...     56.        234. 

Illegitimacy,    Marriage  ...  ..  ..76.        315, 

Inheritance.  Joint,.    Q«?  Whether  Ord.  No.  8  of  1834 

applies  to  a,  ...  .,   226.        560. 

Injury  to  character  -       ..  ..SB.        244. 


338. 

724. 

341. 

730. 

343 

734. 

183. 

522. 

10. 

54. 

22. 

108. 

62. 

267. 

271. 

617. 

332 

718. 

Page  Par. 
Injunction  against  a  sale  granted  by  the  Supreme  Court..  142.  471. 
issued  by  S.  C.  to  prevent  waste.  . .  200  S40. 
issued  by  S.  C.  to  prevent  the  delivery  of  a  con- 
veyance by  the  Fiscal. .  ..  201.  S41. 
issued  by  S.  C.  to  restrain  the  removal  of  crops,  203,  544" 

granted  on  a  mere  Petition  where  there  was  no 

time  to  obtain  the  necessary  affidavit.  ...  236.         571. 

A  Court  may  issue  injunctions  to  public  func- 
tionaries, but  cannot  give  them  instructions  to 
do  any  act. 

refused  for  want  of  proof  of  title, 
to  restrain  sale  of  goods,  . . 

to  restrain  waste.  . . 

INS.4NITY.    Evidence  of, 

.  Liability  of  father, 

Insolvent  may  sue.     When, 

Instrumests.  XJnnegotiable,  .. 

Proof  of    n  instrument.  .. 

Proof  of  lost  instrument.  . . 

Intbrebt  not  stipulited  for"  ., 

Payment  of  produce  where  produced  is  to  be  re- 
tained in  lieu   of, 

not   claimed  in  the  pleadings.         . . 
on  intended  shipment.     Damages. 

though  not  claimed  in  the  Libel.     Where  the  Pit. 

proceeds  on  a  penal  Bond  the  Court  may  decree,  238. 
Interest  inland,     Proof  of  an. 
Interlocutory  Appeal.    Costs. 

Order.  Appeal  against,     .. 

Order  may  be  rescinded  by  D.  J. 

Appeal.     Trial  pending, 

Orders,  but  not  its  final  decrees.  A    D.C. 

may  alter  its,  ...  •■•  193.        532^ 

Orders  without  the  assent  of  parties  and 
also  in  Criminal  Appeals.  The  S.  C.  will 
decide  on  all,  ...  ••   200.        539. 


249, 

592. 

286. 

636, 

325. 

700. 

330, 

711. 

22. 

110. 

48, 

208. 

33. 

148. 

41. 

183. 

73. 

306. 

84. 

349, 

55 

230. 

87. 

361.' 

147. 

478. 

152. 

483. 

238. 

574, 

179. 

517. 

58. 

243. 

85. 

355. 

ib 

xh 

^^. 

396. 

Page. 

Par. 

..     S9. 

263. 

..     90. 

369. 

QxxTiii.J 
Intirvintion.  Object  in  allowing, 

There  is  no  limit  as  to  the  possible  num- 
ber of  Intervenients.  ...  •■•  173.        613.^ 

An  Intervenient  having  filed  his  Petition 
of  Intervention  pleading  to  the  merits,  can- 
not afterwards  plead  to  the  jurisdiction  . .   224.         65R. 
InterT»nients  right  to  call  evidence.         ...   280.         624. 

A  party  cannol  be  compelled  to  intervene  ; 
but  where  a  vendor   refuses  to  intervene 
the  Pit.  may  amend  his  tibel  by  making 
him  a  party  Deft.  ...  -■•  299;         651, 

The    "  Government  of  Cet/lon"  is  not  a 

sufficient  discription  of  an  Intervenient.    304,         658. 

The  Conrt  will  not  delay  proceedings  on  an 

irregular  Intervention;  but  theii  claims  will 

be  reserved.  ..  ...  308.         667. 

At  what  stage  a  party  may  intervene.     ...  331.         714, 

l!«TBRPiiET«li  OF  THE  Court.  Evidence  and  Opinion  of,   . .     72.         300. 

Intestacy  where  the  Pit.  sues  as  heir.    Allegation  of,    ...  341-        730. 

J/kT^A.    By  the  Law  of,,  a  son  is    not  liable    for  his 
father's  debts,  unless  the   latter  has  left  property, 

and  the  son  has  taken  possession  thereof.     264.         614. 

Customs.  ...  ..   301.        655 

Joint.  Owners.                  ...                                             ...     23.  112. 

...     60.  255. 

of  land.  Mode  of  ascertaining  shares.         ...   165,  508. 

Joint  and  Several  Debt.      Co?ts  decreed  against  several 

Defts  are  a,                         . .   203.  545. 

Joint-heir  is  not  adverse  to  the  other.  The  possession  of  a,  271.  618. 

Joinder  of  parties  ordered  on  Appeal.                                 . .    326.  703. 

Judgment.                        ..                        ..                   ..         7.  38' 

Prescription  of  judgments.                ...                ..42.  187. 

binding  on  heirs.            ...                                   ...     65,  278. 

for  less  then  the  amount  of  damages  claimed.  Costs,     91.  372. 

Priority  of  Mortgage  over,         ..                        ..103.  414. 

formed  upon  inciedibility  of  evidence.                ..       id.  418. 

as  between  a  Pit,  and   Deft,  cannot  prejudice 

a  third  party.  ...  ..    141.         467. 


Paye.  Far. 
Judgment  in  appeal  on  an  imperfect  record  held  not  final. 

A,  „.  ...  U3.  472. 
not  to  exceed  the  amount  claimed  in  the  Libel...  166.  SOS- 
may  be  revived  on  a  Rule  Nisi.  A  superannuated,  193.  531. 

where  the  party  aggrieved  thereby  has  not  ap- 
pealed.    The  S.  C,  will  not  alter  a,                   ..    202.         S43. 
of  Rough  C.  J.  in  No.  84  D.  C.  Manaar.         ..    211.         550, 
has  been  entered  against  a  Deft  without   notice 
his  remedy  is  not  by  appeal.     Where   a, 243.         583. 

of  a  'X>.  C.  is  appeal  to  the  S.  C.  and  not  by  a 
fresh  action.  The  remedy  against  any  omission 
or  defect  in  the,. . 

ultra  petita.    A   D.  C.  cannot  give, 

The  course  adopted  where  the  D.  C.    omitted  to 
record  the  reasons  of  its,,, 
in  appeal.    Force  of  a, 
Prescription  of,      . . . 
JuRrsDicTioN,     Cause  of  action. 

Residence  of  Deft.  .. 

where  Defts  reside  in  several  Districts. 

of  District  Courts.  . . 

of  District  Courts.     Matrimonial,.. 

Waiver  of  a  plea  to  the, 

if  founded  on  the  residence  of  the  Deft,  or  the 

place  of  the  cause  of  action,  must  be  pleaded 

before  discussing  the  merits.     A  plea  to  the,  223         558 

An  IntMvenient  having  filed  his  petition    of 

intervention  pleading  to  the  merits,  cannot 

afterwards  plead  to  the,  ..    224  ib 

Where  a  Deft,  has  appeared  and  answered  he 

cannot  afterwards  object  to  the,  ..   248.        590. 

JUD6E  previously  engaged  as  Advocate  in   the  cause.  A,      95.         388. 
who  ia  also  the  Government  Agent.    A  suit  by  the 
Government  of  Ceylon  cannot  be  entertained  by  a,  136        461 


248. 

589. 

284. 

630, 

2S5. 

634. 

304. 

660. 

319. 

685. 

13. 

67- 

29. 

136. 

45. 

197. 

7J. 

296. 

76. 

318. 

112. 

432. 

1. 

1. 

1. 

2. 

2. 

8. 

2. 

9, 

3, 

13. 

i. 

21. 

6. 

S3. 

7-. 

37- 

13. 

63. 

IS. 

73. 

16. 

79. 

96. 

393- 

101. 

400. 

106. 

418. 

153. 

484V 

[xxx.] 

Page.        Par 

S.ANDYAN  Law. 

Transfer.     Consent  of  son. 

Transfer  to  procure  support. 

Succession. 

Rights  of  a  Widow. 

Marriage  in  Deega.     Inheritance. 

Gift  to  widow.  . .  . . 

Disinherison.         ...  ...  — 

Donation.  ~„  —  — 

Marriage  in  Deega. 

Marriage  in  Deega, 

Marriage  in Beena.  ...  . . 

Eight  of  a  divorced  wife  or  destitute  widow 
for  support  from  her  parents. 

Succession  of  Nephews  &c. 
Majority. 
Adoption. 

Heirs  when  estopped  from  disputing  a  ver- 
bal bequest  of  lands  , .  ...     ib  486. 

A  grandmother's  interest  in  the  estate  of 

the  grandson.  ...  ..   201.         S42, 

Qu  ?  As  to  the  custom  of  Saffragam  res- 
pecting a  Beena  husband's  right  to  succeed 
to  wife's  property,        ...  ...  ..  258.        605, 

The  father  is  not  of  kin  to  his  Beena  chil- 
dren.    Q«.«  ...  ...  29S.        643, 

An  only  daughter  by  a  previous  marriage 

is  entitled  to  half  the  father's  lands,        . .   328.        710. 

Prescription  does  not  run  against  the  heir 

pending  the  widow's  life-interest.  ...  329.  ib 

An  only  daughter  does    not  forfeit  her 
rights  by  a  Z)ee<7a marriage.  .,„         ...329.         710. 

An    heir  cannot   be  disinherited    with- 
out cause  of    disinherison  stated  in  the 
^eed  ...  ...  345.        737. 

Widow's  Life-interest  .,  ...      ib  ib 


279. 

621. 

9. 

46. 

100. 

406. 

101. 

ib. 

131. 

448. 

[_xxxi.3 

Page.         Par. 
KaNdyanTebkitcrim  Priority  of  general  mortgage  in,  .,    105.        422. 
as  elsewhere    a    married   woman 
cannot  sue  or  be  sued  alone  ;  and 
a   Judgment   against  her  is   void. 
In  the,  ..  ..    272.         619. 

Administration   in  the     Kandyan 
District  to  the  guardian  of  a  minor 
child.  ..  ...   105.         423. 

'  Kanbvaks  do  not  extend  to  the  Law  of  Evidence.     The 

privileges  of  the, 
Landlord  .^ND  TeKant. 

Ejectment.  ...  .. 

Right  of  incoming  Tenant.  Custom. 
Rights  and  duties  of  Landlords.   . . 

A  receipt  not  under  seal  is  not  con- 
clusive against  the  party  giving  it, 
but  only  a  prima  Jacie  evidence, 
■which    may   be     contradicted  by 
parol.  ...  ..   254.        598, 

If  a  Landlord  give  a  receipt  for  the 
rent  last  due,  it  is  to  be  presumed 
that  the  former  rent  has  been  paid,    ib,  ib. 

OneTenant  in  common  cannot  pres- 
cribe against  this  Co-Tenant  under 

thirty  years. 
Land.     Registry  of,  . 

Frauds  and  Perjuries. 

Waiverof  agreement  for  transfer  of, 

Verbal  Bequest. . . 

Government.     Application    for 

of,  •• 

Pioof  of  an  interest  in, 

is  entitled  to  compensation.     A 

yide  builds  on  another's, 

Mallepalle  defined. 
Law.     District  order  no,.  Cattle  trespass. 
Letters  are  collateral  evidence  &c. 
Legal  Proof.    Deft's  right  to  insist^upon, 


..   272. 

62a. 

,<). 

48. 

... 

...     55. 

231. 

■of, 

...  143. 

475. 

...  153. 

486. 

and 

possession 

..    155. 

492. 

..    179. 

517. 

party 

who  bona 

...  282. 

62ff. 

...  283. 

629. 

...     54. 

228. 

...     70. 

293. 

> 

..    113. 

434. 

Page. 

P(»- 

..  162- 

504, 

..   19S. 

537. 

[xxxii.] 

Legitim.4  TioN  by  subsequent  marriage, 

IiEGAcv.     Action  by  a  Legatee  against  an  Exeiifltor. 

A  father  is  not  entitled  to  receive  a  Legacy  left 
to  his  minor  child  without  the  authority   of  the 
S.   C.  which  has  in  this  respect  succeeded  to  the 
poVers  of  the   Wehhdmer.  ...  ..    279.         623. 

was  intended  as  a  satisfaction  for  an  inheritance, 
held'  that  the  legatee  Canncit  claim  both.  Where 
a,  ...  ..  .. 

Libel,     Action  for,.    Costs. 

Action  for,.   Defamatory  words.  .. 

Lkhjidated  DAM.4GE8,  is  peculiar  to   the  Law  of  England. 

The   distinction  between  Penalty  and,  219. 

Loan  converted  into  purchase.  . .  ; . 

Loss.     Liability  of  Depository  for, 

Loss  Instrument.     Proofof,  .. 

Lottery  Ticket.     No  action  is  maintainable  on  a, 

Marriage  not  set  siside  in  the  lifetime  of  the  parties. 
Agreement  to  marry. 
Evidence  of. 

Evidence  of  Breach  of  Promise  of, 
Second,,   Administration    of    first    wife's  pro- 
perty. ...  ...  ., 

Breach  of  Promise  of.     Costs, 
Contract.     Breach  of,.   Failure  to  shew    dam- 
ages by  such  breach.  ...  ...     SS.         245. 

Contract.     Claim  for  penalty  and  expences  im- 
posed and  incurred  for  and  by  Breach  of, 
Illegitimacy. 

Amicable     Settlement.    Damages.     Breach  of 
Promise  of, 

Proceedings   upon  opposition    to  Banns  of,  ... 
Contract.    Stamp,  Frauds  and  Perjuries. 
Legitimation  by   subsequent  marriage.     Proof 
of,  ...  ...  162.         504. 

.  Answer  to  the  action.  Action  for  the  cancella- 
tion of  Banns  of,  ,,  ...206.        549, 
Registration.     Regulation.  ...  209.        ib 


325. 

698. 

55. 

232. 

132. 

452. 

219. 

556. 

47, 

204. 

65. 

277 

84. 

349. 

271. 

616. 

IS. 

80. 

20. 

102. 

27. 

125. 

52. 

219. 

ib 

223. 

57. 

239. 

ib 

246. 

76. 

315. 

84. 

351. 

85. 

354. 

97. 

398. 

[xxxiii.] 

Page.  Pat, 
JlAjmiAGE,  Consent  of  parties  to  be  recorded  in  registration,    ih  ib 
Contract.  Eemedy  of  Husband  in  case  of  Seduc- 
tion.    Parent  becoming  a  party  to  the  child's,  210.  ib 
cannot  be  given  by  Proxy.     Consent   to,        ...  317.  679. 
Mahombdan  Law. 

Sale  by  husband  of  Dowry  property.   ...     34.  1S3. 

Dowry  property.    Separation.               ...     43.  191. 

Magger,  Kaycooly  &c.  when  recoverable.    56.  236. 
Marriage  contract.   Damages  not  accru- 
ing in  consequence  of  the  breach,        ...     58.  245. 
Claim  for  penalty  and  expences.        ...     ib  246, 

Assent  to  marriage  contract.  Implied.  ...     ib  247, 

Right  of  wife  to  sue  alone.                  ...     90.  370. 

Oral  Bequest  of  real  and  personal  pro- 
perty,                       ...                        ...  175.  614. 

Eule    of  Division  among    collaterals.  176.  ib 

Heirs  of  a  deceased  daughter.              ...       ib  ib 

A  Mahomedan  having  once  made  a  pro- 
mise of  marriage  i.«:  bound  to  fulfil  it  be- 
fore he  contracts  another.                    ...  281,  626. 

A   Husband  and   Wife  may  sue  each 

other,                    ...                          ...  300.  654. 

A  Wife  deserting  may  be  sued  for  any 
property  taken  away  by  her;  and  forfeits  -^ 

her  dowry,  or,  if  already   paid,  double  ; 
and  the  Husband  may  sue  without  first 
applying  to  the  Priest  or  Arbitrators  ...      ih  j6 

Divorce    among     Mahomedans.     Ali- 
mony. ...  ...  322.        689. 

Mahomedans.     Registry  of  Car<o«M,  ..  „„    40.        178, 

Copies   of  Carloms  inadmissible  in   evi- 
dence. ...  ...      ib  179, 

Moorish  Mosque.    Exclusive  right  of  cele- 
brating festivals.     Voluntary  ofiierings  ...     51,        218. 
Grant  of  Administration  to  a  young  man 
of  21.  .  -•  327.         70S, 

Right   of  Moorish  Priests  under  acts  from 
Government,  discussed.  ...  844.        735, 


'age: 

Pwr 

il. 

1801 

320. 

68& 

61. 

262. 

ji 

263.^ 

ib 

264. 

114. 

436.. 

76. 

318. 

LXXS4V.J 

JHasteb;  anb  SuBviNT.     Contoact  with  tlie  Servant. 

A  Master  not  liable  for  trespass 
by  Servant. 
Malicious  Jroskcutiom,  . . 

Requi8it<ii<  of  an  Action  for, 
Keparation. 
Malice  when  implied 

Matrimonial  jurisdiction  of  District  Courts. 
Mandamus  to  compel  a  D.  J.,  to  accept  security.      Appli- 
cation for  a,  ...  ...  163i        506^ 

Marribd  Wom.\n  on  a  Bond  granted'  by  her  during  cover- 

tiire»    Divorce.    Action  against  a,     ...  102.        412.. 

cannot  appeal..    A, ...  186i        527.. 

cannot  sue  or  be  sued  alone ;  and  a  judg- 
ment against  her  is  void^  In  the  Kan- 
dyan  Territories  as  elsewhere  a,  ..  272:        6I9i 

A  Woman  under  coverture  cannot  sue 
withoutjoining  the  Husband  ...308.        669l 

(  rMfe"KANDTAK  I,Aw""MAHOMEDAN  IiAV^"THESBWALLEME".) 

IIVIedical  PRACTiTioNBib  B'enumeration  of,  >.     39.         174l 

Kemuneration  for  Medical  ser- 
■cices   ...  ,. 

Contract  with, 
Mbrcu.imts.  Merchant's  Day-BboK.  Provisional' jndgment. 
Merchant's  Account  containing  "  mention  of 
the  time  of  payment."  .„„ 

Custom  of,.». 

MIssNB  Frofi'i's  when  decreed.  

Double  action^for  Land  and  forj 
MiKORiTv.    Necessaries  .„  _„ 

A  Father  is  not  entitled  to  receive  a  legacy  left 

to  his  minor  child  without  the  authority  of  the 

S.  C.  which  has  in  this  respect  succeeded  to 

the  powers  of  the  WeesKamer  ,«,  279.        623. 

HmisTEssM^BzLiGioN,  Calumnious  chaiges  by,  ».  142.       469. 

MonTQAGfc  over  subsequent  sale.    Priority  of,  ^„    21.        107. 

oi'O'overiiment.    Geuuw!;  .^  ,..<.    56.        334 


68: 

287. 

» 

Vb. 

60. 

259. 

61. 

280. 

150. 

483. 

107. 

^6. 

m 

86 

33. 

145. 

72. 

302 

103 

414. 

132, 

451 

Page.        Pnr 
JioBTBAGK  Right  of  Mortgagee  when  mortgaged  property 

is  sold.  , 

-o»erjnagn)ent.    Priority  of, 

Proof  to  establish,  .  

giving  them  priority  in  respect    of  their    share 

over  subsequent  creditors  or  pnrehasers.     The 

claim  of  the  children  of  a  predeceased  spouse 

on  the  property  of  the  surviver  amounts  merely 

to  a,  ™  „„  „„  „„  188        530 

is  not  thereby  dischaiged.    A  Surety  who,  after 

notice,  does  not  object  to  the  sale   of  the,    ,„  193.        5,S3 

granted  in  1S23  before  a  School-Master  and 

■witnesses  is  valid.,      A,  204.        54? 

accompanied  with  possession  of  the  title  deeds, 
is  entitled  to  preference  over  a  subsequent  mort- 
gage by  mere  contract.     A,  ih  ib 

Possession  of  mortgagee  becomes  adverse  after 
the  lapse  of  the  period  fixed  for  redemption. 
Ten  years  possession  will  give  him   a,  title  hy 

prescription.  

Money  paid  _„  ,„ 

paid  without  receipts 
due  but  unpaid.     Action  to  recover, 
actually  paid.     Evidence,     Action  for  the  restitu- 
tion bf,  ...  ..  ...  2S3.        612. 

MuTtTALiTT  in  an  agreement  may  be  presumed  though  the 

Deft,  has  not  signed  it.  .. 

Mutual  Consent  a  sufficient  consideration. 
Namptissement  ... 

may  be  demanded  on  a  Merchant  Day  Book 


281, 

625 

19. 

97. 

41. 

181. 

43. 

190 

139. 

463. 

140. 

ib. 

60. 

258. 

ib 

259. 

77, 

321. 

J32. 

720" 

334. 

721. 

9. 

45. 

considered.    The  Law  of. 

Practice  of. 
New  Tmal 

Non-production  of  evidence  by  Appellant  no 

ground  for  a,  ...  ...  135.        456. 

allowed  in  order  to  aUow  a  party  to  produce 

evidence  against  prescription.    A,  „.  157.        462, 


[xxxvi.] 

Page  Par 
New  Triai  Wheie  the   Pit.  has  manifestly  proceeded  in 

ignorance,  the  S.  C,  will  allow  a,                 —  256.  602^ 
Necbssabies.  Minority —                —                —           —    32.  145. 
JJiNDBGAMME  decreed  on  default  of  paying  Ottoo.    Forfei- 
ture of,                ..~                 —                 ~~  327.  706. 

Novation —               —    12.  61. 

Non-Suit       „             ~.               „-               ~~        —19,  36. 
.  Dismissal                                  ~~                         ~~    42.  184. 
a  Pit.,  merely  because  he  had  not  summoned  cer- 
tain witnesses.     The  Court  cannot,                   ~~  287.  639. 
NoN- Joinder  of  Plts„.,                          _~                       ~~    44.  193. 
NoK-P-\TMENT  of  price.     Right  of  Be-sumption  on,         ~_    66,  281. 
N oN-AccEPTANCE  of  ofFors  no  agreement      . —                 ~~     80,  332. 
NoN  Compos  Mentis,     Guardians  over  Pits.                  — 232.  566, 
NoTBs  of  Hand  how  far  conclusive  as  proof  of  the  debt_~,  156.  495, 

NoMiNAi  Damages.     Costs —     93.  378, 

Notice  to  produce  documentary  evidence  unnecessary  when 

the  existence  of  such  document  is  denied.             ~~     50.  216'. 
,  his  remedy  is  not  by  appeal.     Where  a  judgment 

has  been  entered  against  a  Deft  without,              243.  583 

in  English  on  a  Cingalese  party  is  n  ot  ''due  notice" 

Service  of  a,              ..             ...  341.  731. 

Objectio.v  during  Trial.    Appeal.            44.  196. 

not  taken  in  Court  below.     Statute  of  Frauds,     95.  390. 

to  witness.                     ,-~                                   100.  404. 

that  the  Pit.  was  not  at  the  time  the  owner  of 

the  article  contracted  to  be  delivered.  140.         463. 

Pit.  not  entitled  to  object  to  a    parti  cular  con- 
struction of  the  Answer.  —  14R.         481, 

which  was  not  made   a  ground  of  appeal.     The 
S.  C  refused  to  entertain  an, 

Gfpice  of  Caporale.    Qualification  for. 

Officer  of  the  Court.     Attachment  against  an. 

Onus  Probandi.    General  denial. 

Opinion  and  Evidence  of  Interpreter  of  the  Court. 

Order.     A  Court  may  rescind  a  preparatory, 

OoTTo.     Forfeiture  of  Nindegamme  decreed  on  failure  to 

pay,  —  „„  327,        706. 


325. 

699. 

32. 

147. 

140. 

464. 

H4. 

438. 

72. 

300. 

14B. 

480. 

[[xxxvii.] 

Page.        Far. 

Ownership.    Evidence  of,  29.        133. 

Prim/l/ocie  proof  of,  ISS.        491. 

PARTiirKR6H[j'.    Evidence  of,  6.  33 

.Payment  to  one  of  the  partners.  Dissolu- 
tion of,  „„  „_  154.        488. 

Parole  evidence  of,  155.        494. 

The  Proxy  of  one  of  several  partners  is  suffi- 
cient to  authorize  an  action.  240.        578. 

Where  a  debtor  of  a  firm  granted  a  Bond 
to  one  of  the  partners  and  the  other  part- 
ner after  the  dissolution  of  the  partner- 
ship sued  the  debtor  for  the  amount,  held 

that  the  Pit  had  no  right  of  action.        

Parties.    Pining  a  party  to  a  suit. 

to  Arbitration.     Assent  of. 

Absence  of  a  party  to  a  suit  through  illness.  . . . 

to  Arbitration.     Consent  of, 

A  party  to  a  Suit  may  be  fined. 

A  party  subsequently  joined  as  Deft. 

A  party  misled  by  Clerk  of  Court. 

Kevivor  of  a  suit  abated  by  the  death  of  a 

party. 

Examination  of,  ~~ 

Costs  against  a  party  who  has  been  dropped  in 
the  course  of  the  proceedings. 
The  absence  of  a  party  is  not  in  all  cases  a 
good  ground  for  postponement. 
The  D.  C.  hss  discretion  to  allow  the  exam- 
ination of  a  party  or  his  proctor  at  any  stage  of 
the  case  provided  the  questions  are  relevant.  ...  195.  536. 
Where  the  real  party  entitled  to  the  property 
in  dispute  puts  forward  other  claimants  in  or- 
der to  get  himself  called  as  a  witness,  he  may 
be  punished  summarily  as  for  contempt  of 
Court.  ...  ••  215,        553. 

The  D.  C.  if  it  proceeds  under  Rule  \\  of 
Sect.  1  cannot  admit  the  evidence  of  a  witness 
to  contradict  the  statement  of  the  party.         ..   235.        568. 


241. 

581. 

7. 

35, 

19. 

95, 

24. 

113. 

31, 

141. 

37. 

163. 

ib 

165. 

79, 

528. 

113. 

435. 

129. 

445. 

158. 

500. 

192. 

531. 

[sxwiii.] 

Page.        Par, 
pAjtTiKs.     Iji  iliieitios  (ho attendance  of  parties  and  wit- 
rc,-i'«,  tilt;  Court  will,  in  view  of  the  customs  of 
the  Country,  respect  theii  feelings.  ..   238.        675. 

Effert  of  examinations  of,  ..   279.        622 

In  trespass  where  a  Deft  sets  up  the  title  of 
a  third  party  the  Court  is  not  bound  to  make 
him  a  party  unless  he  chooses  to  intervene    ...  281.  632 

Where  a  party  appears  by  Attorney,  the  D.  C. 
may  require  the  presence  of  the  party. . 
Joinder  of  parties  ordered  on  appeal, . 
J* AWN.    Forfeiture  of, 

Creditor  when  bound  to  return  a, 

Action  to  recover,  — 

Paddy.    Calculation  of  compensation-- 
PavmbNt  by  delivery  of  Promissory  Note*.™ 

Voluntary, 

of  Bond.        Proof  of, 

pleaded  but  not  proved.    Prescription... 

from  lapse  of  time.     Presumption  o^ 

Order  on  a  Shroff  no  evidence  of, 

Partj.    Admission  of, 

•Bond.     Proof  of, 

Appropriation  of, 

of  produce  in  lieu  of  interest— 

Pleading.    Proof  of, 

Note  on  a  Shroff  not  concluNve  proof  oi^ 

ast  against  third  parties.    Evidence  of, 

to  one  partner^-. 
pAVFER.    Certificate  of  Proctor.. . 

PA)ctor'9-  Certificate^i- 

Proof  within  a  reasonable  time. . . 

Objection  to  Proctor's  report... 

Vexatious  action  by, 

PetitioriCrirfe"  Proctoe.."^ 
(Vide  "  Forma  Pauperis.'') 

Parole  engagement  of  Seamen—  ..      30,        I37. 

Evidence  of  partnership.  . ,     155,        494. 

Evidence  is  admissable  to  prove  satisfaction  of  a 

specialty.  ...  ...  236.        667. 


324. 

696. 

326. 

702. 

16. 

81. 

28. 

132. 

101. 

410. 

17. 

85. 

21. 

106. 

28. 

130. 

37. 

164. 

63. 

270. 

a. 

271. 

64. 

276. 

79. 

330. 

ib 

ib 

83. 

348. 

87. 

361. 

101. 

409. 

103. 

416. 

111. 

427. 

154. 

488. 

28. 

129. 

S9. 

250. 

64. 

275. 

98. 

400. 

106. 

424. 

[s:xxix.j 

Pagp.         Par. 

Parvkny.   Sbhvice,.     Alienation S2,        222. 

Forfeiture  of.,  by  Alienation™    ...     82.        34 1* 

Alienation  of,  247.        587, 

Alienation  of,  2SS.        600. 

P.tRBNT.    Rights  of  cliildren.     Destitution  of,  ...     70.        292. 

beciuninga  party  to  the  child's  marriage  contmet  210,        .549. 
P^iBTiTioti.  Every  holder  of  property  in  common  is  entitled 

to  call  for  a  partition.     Form  of  order  for,   ...  2.'i7.        572. 
Formand  mode  of  effecting,  ...  302.        657. 
decreed  in  the  course  of  administration,         ...^319.        684. 
Parate  Kxecution  or  appoint  a  Commission  unless   au- 
thorized by  Law.      A    D.  C.    cannot 
grant,                                              ..   324.        693.. 
Penal  Law.    Confiscation...  ..       8.         42. 
Bond,  the  Court  may  decree  interest,  though  not 
claimed  in  the  Libel.    Where  the  Pit  proceeds  on  a,  238.       674. 
Pbnaltt.    Proof...                                                      ..      H.         S7. 
^d  Liquidated  damages  is  pecidiar  to  the  Law 
of  England.   The  distinction  between,           ..  219.        556. 
All  stipulated  penalties  are  reducible ;   especi- 
ally where  there  ie  no  reciprocity  in  the  penal- 
ties                                                               ...  228.        563. 

Peabl  FrsHERT.    Agreement..  >_    24.        114. 

PsRJCRT.    Admission  of  a  witness  that  he  has  been  convict- 
ed of,  _»    88.        365. 
Performance  [Vide  "  Specific  Perpormancb"^ 
Plbadino.    Replication  when  necessary.™ 

Libel.    Claim  of  Pi: 

Libel.    Yaiiance.. 

Injury  done  by  each  Deft  need  not  be  stated 

in  the  Libel.  •■ 

Amendment  of  Libel_  .... 

Several  counts.    Prescription  how  pleaded  .. 

Proof  of  pay  ment. , 

Interest  not  claimed  in  the,  ...» 

Where  the  Pit  proceeds  on  a  penal  bond  the 

Court  may  decree  interest,  though  not  claimed 

in  the  Libel....,  ..  2.38.        374 


IS. 

78. 

18. 

93. 

38. 

171. 

60. 

254. 

72. 

303. 

99. 

401. 

101. 

409. 

147. 

478. 

Page. 

Far, 

be 

..   247. 

£87. 

__  279. 

622. 

__  284. 

631. 

..   318. 

683. 

FlEADiNe    and  examination  of  parties.      Coiuse  to 
adopted  in  deciding  cases  upon  the, 

Effect  of  examinations  of  parties 

The  Court  will  reject  an  ill-writtien  Libel 
Procedure  in  case  of  imperfect, 

should  be  signed  either  by  the  party  himself 

era  Proctor  holding  a  proxy..  ..   327.        704. 

Where  a  Deft  is  sued  as  heir  or  representative, 
the  Libel  most  shew  that  he  is  sole  heir,  or 
how  he  is  a  representative...  ...  331.         715. 

Where  the  Libel  was  unintelligible,  the  S.  C. 
absolved  the  Deft. 
Planting  share.    Joint-Ownership — 

share.     Compromise — 
Plaintiffs  several..    Costs. 

interest  in  the  suit. 
non  compos  mentit.    Guardian  over, 
Pie  A  of  not  indebted. 

to  the  jurisdiction  if  founded  on  the  residence    of  the 

Deft  or  the  place  of  the  cause  ef  action,  must  be 

pleaded  before  discussing  the  merits.     A,  „. 

Possession  under  mortgage.  ..„ 

Primd  facie  case.  

by  permission.  _ 

What  amounts  to  Adverse, 

acknowledgment  of  title.  

proved,  though  not  pleaded.  Reversal  of  a  de- 
cree on  contradictory  evidence  and  on, 
Actual  occupation.     Construction  of  the  word. 

Acknowledgment  of  title 

.  Burthen  of  proof 

Presumption  in  favor  of  possessor 

of  the  property  agreed  to  be  transferred™      .„ 
primii  facie  proof  of  ownership  ..  . . 

Prescriptive.,  of  Service  Parveny  lands. . .      

presumed  to  be  adverse  until  the  contrary  be 

shewn  prescription-™  ...  ...  170.        Sll 


ib 

716. 

.     60. 

256. 

180. 

518.- 

62. 

268- 

181, 

519. 

.  232, 

566. 

83. 

347- 

223. 

558. 

2. 

5. 

10. 

49. 

85. 

158. 

71. 

298. 

179. 

326. 

80. 

333. 

87. 

359. 

ib 

360. 

114. 

438. 

132. 

450, 

145. 

475. 

155. 

491. 

166. 

509. 

Page. 

Par. 

..   170, 

517. 

-.  '.UT. 

.5!17. 

.  .381. 

025. 

69. 

291. 

81. 

3.39. 

86. 

355. 

84. 

524. 

86. 

528. 

ib 

ib 

.92. 

531. 

[xli.] 

Pn.ssBssiox.   Presumption  ari.'iing   froai, 

Presciiptive,.  of  Service  Parveny  lands. 

of  mortgagee  becomes  adverse.     When  the,  , 

Postponement,  unless   unavoidaJily   abfefent.     Absence 

proctsr   no  ground  for,  ...  ...      54.  227. 

How  often  a    case  may  bo    postponed  ow- 
ing to  absence  of  material  witnesses 
on   payment  of  costs. 

.  Stiiking  Off  a  case.     Application  for,    . . 
Pit  being  unprepared    for    trial    in   conse- 
quence of  Doft's  misreptesentation.  . .    '. 
Discretion  of  the  Court  below  open  to  revi- 
sion in  Appeal.     Grounds  for  a,  . . .   ' 
Absence  of  Counsel  or   Agent  may   be  a 
ground  for,              ...              .. 

The  absence  of  a  party  is  not  in  all  cases 
a  good  ground  for,  ..  --.   '. 

in  consequence  of  a  Proctor's  absence,  the 
S,  C  directed  the  Proctor  to  pay  the  batta 
of  the  witnesses.     On   a,    ... 

Pa.vcTicE.  Rules  of, 

and     pleadings     in     Colonial     Courts, 
Rules  of,  . . 

in   Rules  of,,    necessity. 

in  cases  where  a  Pit  i.s  unavoidably  absent 
on  Trial  ilay.. 

Prayer   for   further  relief. 

Claim  of  a  specific  sum.  Subsequent  arrears. 
Privileged    Communication... 
Prescription,  Possession  under  mortgage... 

Crown. .- 

Bond... 

should  be  specially  pleaded... 

Possession  under  mortgage...  .. 

Interruption  of, 

no  bar  to  a  claim  unless   specially  pleaded. 

"Governnnent  and  Temple  duty. 


...    295. 

644, 

..      74. 

308, 

ts, 
...    132, 

458. 

__  155. 

593. 

isent 
„_  340. 

?27. 

...      91. 

373. 

...    113. 

433 

..     79. 

329. 

...       2, 

5. 

...      3. 

14. 

...        4. 

18. 

...        ib 

19. 

...       5. 

22. 

6. 

30. 

I.,       7. 

39. 

9. 

46, 

Page. 

Par 

10. 

SI. 

.     13. 

66, 

IS. 

77, 

20. 

103. 

[xlii.] 

Prescription.  Possession  under  mortgage.. 

Presumption  of  payment  how  rebutted. 

Evidence  to  rebut,  . . 

Meaning  of  "  adverse  fit/e^'^ 

not  effected  by  irregularity  in  the  instru- 
ment &c.   Title  by,  ...  ..      28.         131. 

Agreement   misnamed.  ,,  ,. 

Performance  of  service...  ,. 

by  a  previous  action.     Interruption  of,     ... 

Previous  title...  ,.  ... 

of  Judgments. . 

against  Letters  of  Administration. 

not  pleaded.  Payment  pleaded  but  not 
proved. 

What  amounts  to  "  adverse  title." 

Possession  by  Crown  of  Cinnamon  grounds     76. 

Servant  wages. 

of  Pit's  claim  as  Executor. 

ought  to  be  pleaded.  , , 

llight  of  a  grandson  during  father's  life 
time  to  a  prescriptive  title  acquired  bv 
grandfather.  ...  82.         343. 

how  pleaded.     Pleading  several  counts.   ...     99.         401. 

.Bond.     Offer  of  a  compromise.  ...   129.         446, 

how  pleadable   after  an  admission   of  the 

debt.  ...  ...  ...   143.         473, 

A  new  trial  granted  in  order  to  allow  a  par- 
ty to  produce  evidence  against,  ..   137.         462. 
Claim   of  specific  performance    when  pres- 
cribed.                  ...                 ..                  ..    145.         47.5. 

.Prescriptive  possession  of  Service  Parveny 

lands.  ...  ...  ...   J66.         509. 

against  male   heirs.     Service  Parveny     ...   169.         ib 
Two  special  points  regarding,     ...  ...  170.        611. 


2.4. 

134, 

30. 

138. 

34. 

152. 

38. 

170. 

42. 

187, 

47. 

206. 

63. 

270, 

71. 

298. 

76. 

317. 

77. 

320. 

81. 

338. 

ib 

340. 

[llill  ] 

Page.         Par 
Pbesckiption  if  jn'oved  to  have  been    originally  a   mere 
cultivator  is  bound  to  shew  when  his  title 
became  adverse.    A  party  claiming  title  by,  187         529. 

-Prescriptive  possession  of  Service  Parveny 

lands.  ...  ...  ...   247.         S87. 

A  parol  admission  is  snfficient  under  the 
proviso  in  the  7th  Clause  of  the  Prescripti- 
on Ordiuancc.  ...  ..   253        597. 

Prescriptive   possession  of  Service  Parveny 

lands.  ...  ...  ...  255.         600. 

One   tenant   in   common  cannot   prescribe 

against  his  co-lenant  under  thirty  years 272,         620. 

Possession  of  mortgagee  becomes  adverse 
after  the  lapse  of  the  period  fixed  for  re- 
demption. Ten  years  possession  will  give 
him  a  title  by, 

of  Judgments. 

does  not  run  against  the  heir  pending  the 
widow's  life  interest. 

if  not  pleaded  will  not  held  as  a  bar. 

Pke-emption.  Kight  of, 

Right  of. 
Presumption    of  payment  how  rebutted.  -„ 

of  payment  from  lapse  of  time.       -..^ 

in  favor  of  heir 

in  favor  of  possessor. 

arising  from  possession-. 

Preference,     Priority  of  creditors. . 

Piiority  of  mortgage  over  subsequent    sale.     21, 

Priority  of  deeds.     Delivery^ 

Priority  of  creditors... 

Priority  of  mortgage  over  judgment... 

among  creditors,  Judgment.     Execution. 

Priority  of  creditors. 


...    281. 

625. 

...    319. 

685. 

:he 

..    329. 

710- 

...  344. 

736. 

...      27. 

126. 

...     60. 

255. 

...     13. 

66- 

. .     63. 

271 

..     87. 

360 

...   132. 

450. 

,--  179. 

Sir. 

..     17. 

87. 

le.     21, 

107. 

..      26, 

124. 

...     78. 

322. 

...   103. 

414. 

...   105. 

422. 

..    107. 

427. 

•2(14. 


rxiiv.] 

Prefekence     'I'he  daim  oftlie  children  of  a  [ire-deceased 
spouse  on  the    property  of  the    survivor,  a- 
mounts  merely  to  a  mortgage  giving  them 
priority  in  respect  of  their  share  ovei  subse- 
quent creditors  ox  }mrchasers-..  ...    18 
over   a  subsequent  mortgage   by  mere  con- 
tract.    A  mortgage  accomiiauied  with  posses- 
sion of  title  deeds  is  entitled  to, 
over  a  prior  cieditor  though  holding  a  Nu 
tarial   Bond.     A   special  mortgagee  is  enti- 
tled to, 
J'rixcipal  and  Agent.     Payment  to  Agent. 
Proctor's  Agent.. 
Breach  of  Contract... 
Agent   not    personally    liable.-^ 
Agent    standing    security  for  his 
Principal.                  .,  ...    \'y2. 
Stipulation  by  Agent  for  share  in 
the  profits. .                 .,               ...    156. 

Special  power  to  recover 159. 

Where  a  party  appears  b)'  Attor- 

ne}',  the  1).  C  may    i-equire  the 

presence  of  the  party..  ...   324. 

PriNcipai  and   Sikkiv,    A  creditor    by    discharging   the 

principal  from   gaol  without  the 

consent   of  the    surety,    thereby 

discharges  the  surety ... 

Privv  Council  (Vide  "  Appfal."^ 

Proctor  acting  as  Deputy  Fiscal. . 

Absence  of,  ., 

neglecting  his  duty...  ,, 

Costs  for  filing  two  ans\ve^^ 

Absence  of,,      Postp^nienient 

vi-hen  competent  as  a  witness 

Power  of  .D.  J.  over, 

Neglect  of, 

liable  for  neglect. 

reporting  on  a  pauper  pt'tition,  Explanation  from, 


193. 


far. 


530. 


547. 


■299. 

652 

13. 

65, 

79, 

329 

148. 

483. 

149. 

ii 

494. 
501.. 


696. 


533. 


17. 

87. 

38. 

Ib9. 

39. 

17.1. 

4-2. 

lH9, 

54. 

-T-'l" 

71. 

■29,9. 

al. 

337. 

xb 

338. 

93 

380. 

Oli. 

424. 

Lxlv.] 

Page.  I'm- 

Proctor  Defence  in  forwa  pauperis  allowed  in  spite  c,fa 

Proctor's  Certificate...  ..  ..147.         479. 

A,,  not  bound  to  uphold  a  case  which  he  concei- 
ves to  be  groundless. .  ...  ...   185.         526. 

at  any  stage  of  the  case  provided  the  questions 
are  relevant.  The  D,  C.  has  discretion  to  allow 
the  examination  of  a  party  or  his,  195.         .536 

In  a  petition  of  appeal    in    which  the    appellant 
complained  of  the   conduct  of  hia  Proctor,  held 
that  he  had  his  remedy  against  his,  ..  ...  215.         65> 

A,,  when  called  upon  to   report  upon   a  Pauper 
Petition  is  bound  only  to  inquire  into  the  case  of 
the  petitioner,  and  not  to  go  into  the  possible  de- 
fence of  the  opponent  upon  information  obtained 
from  him.        ..  ...  ...  '    ...  242.         582. 

A,,     when-called  upon  to  report  on  a  Pauper  pe- 
tition  is  not   bound  to   investigate  both  sides  of 
ihe  case.  ...  ..  ...  ,      243.  584. 

to  pay  the  batta  of  the  witnesses.  On  a  post- 
ponement in  consequence  of  a  Proctor's  absence, 
the  S.  C.  directed  the,  ...  ...   295.         644. 

Process.    Service  of,  ...  ...  ...     22.         HI, 

Service  of,.     Insufficient   time  ..  ..35.         155, 

PRocLAMiTioN    of  5th  August  1819  against /omAfe  entry, 

considered...  ..  ...  ■■  263.         613. 

Promissory  Note.     Payment  by  delivery  of,  ...     21.         106. 

Proof.     Deft's  right  to  insist  upon  legal  ...   113.         434. 

Burthen  of..     General  Denial.  ■■   U4         438. 

to  establish  mortgage.  ..    132.         451. 

of  marriage.  -■   162.         504. 

of  a  Bond.  Attesting  witnesses.  Comparison  of 
handwriting.  ■■•   1^7.  515. 

of  a  Bond.     Minor  discrepancies  &c.  ••    '78.         516, 

of  an  interest  in  land.  •■■   ^^^i         ^^'^■ 

;  yet  the  rule  is  open  to  exception  whenever  the 
deed  is  of  a  suspicious  nature.  [Though  as  a  gene- 
ral rule  deeds  of  thirty  years  standing  do  not  re- 
quire,  ...  ..    246.         586 


[.hi.] 

Page,         Far. 

Property,     Concealment  of,.     Bwii  in  forma  pauperis  ..     23.         112. 
in  suit,  now  ascertained.     Value  of  the,       ...     74.         308. 
A   sudden  change   in  the   course    of  a   river 
where  land  is  ti'ansferred  from  one  bank  to  the 
opposite  does  noL  alter  the,  ..    184.         525. 

ProvisioN-Al  Judgment.     (Vide"  N.impti8Sement."J 

pROxv.     The.,  of  one  of  several  partners  is    sufficient  to 

authorize  an  action.  ...  240.         .578, 

Punishment  for  frivolous  litigation.  ...    174.         513. 

PtiiiciiASE  (Vide  "Veindor  and  PtrHCHASE.') 

K.*JEKARI-V.  ••  ...  7.  40. 

Ratnapoora.     Custom  of,,  in  respect  of  2ViKe  tenure       ...  147.  477. 

E.ECONVENTION.     Cross-action.                                             ..  11.  56. 

..  106.  425. 

Receipt  without  stamp.                                                     ...  27.  127. 

Money  paid  without,                                              ..  41.  181. 

The.,  for  the  deliveries  not  being  negotiable,  the 
Deft  was  held  boijnd  not  to  produce  them  on  de- 
manding payment.                                                    ...  228.  563. 

Recovery  ofmoney  paid.                                                   ...     82.  342. 

Re-Entry  how  enforced.     Right  of,                                  ...     75.  313. 

Registrar's  fee  for  reporting  on  a  Bill  of  Costs.               ...   148.  482. 

Rejection  of  Evidence.     A  D.  J.  is  bound  to  record  rea- 
sons for,                                      ...  143.  472. 

Relief.  Judicial  and  Sovereign.                                         ..      18.  91. 

Further.,     Prayer  for,                                           ..      9].  373. 

Further.,     Prayer  for,.     Several    claims     in    the 

saniesuit.     Costs.  ...   102.         411. 

Appeal  after  lapse  of  time.  ..      46.  (ft-note) 

Further,.     Prayer  for,.     Claim  of  a  specific  sum. 

Subsequent  arrears.  ,,    113.         433. 

General,.     A  Court  cannot  award  more  damages 
than  is  claimed  in  the  absence  of  a  prayer  for,    ..    140.         463. 
Remission  of  rent.     Where  a  Govt,  renter   deprived  him- 
self of  a  tight  of,  ,.    205.         548. 

Replication  {Vide  "'Pleadingj,") 


[xlvii.] 

RbS- JuDICiTA, 


'age. 

Par. 

". 

36. 

10. 

S3. 

25, 

119. 

26. 

123. 

46. 

201. 

82. 

345. 

81 

350. 

98. 

399. 

104. 

420. 

134. 

454. 

141. 

468. 

183. 

523. 

313. 

674. 

314. 

675. 

344. 

736. 

Dismissal  after  evidence  heard. 

EiFect  of  an  oi  der  for  rehearing. 

in  the  absence  of  appeal. 

Prescriptive  possession  of  Service  Parveny 

land?.  ...  ..166.        509. 

Collusion  between  parties. 

Identity  of  Parties  and  Eights. 

Parties  and  Privies.  ,,  • 

Resumption  Right  of,.    (Vide  "  Vendor  and  Purchaser''^ 
Ee-Sale     (Vide  "  Vendor  and  Purchaser,"^ 

Eestitutio  in  integrum  , , 

Revenue  Paddv.     Remuneration.  ,, 

Law.       Infraction  of, 

Reversal  of  a   decree   on    contradictory     evidence     and 

possession   proved,  though  not  pleaded...  ...     80.         333. 

Revivor  of  a  suit  abated  by  death  of  a  party.     Fresh  ac- 
tion svithout  revii  or.     Costs...  .,    113         435. 

of  a  judgment  by  aii«fe  JVm...  ,.    193.         53 j 

Right  of  a  grandson  during  father's  life-time  to  a  prescrip- 

t've  title  acquired  by  his  grandfather...  ...     82.         343. 

of  a  party  who  asweddumizes  another's  lands  with 

his  assent...  199.         538. 

ofabating  obstructions..  ..    305.         661. 

to   cut   down  over-hanging  branches  is  a  Common 
Law  right.,  ..    326.         701, 


82. 

345, 

8. 

44. 

69. 

289. 

[xlvili,] 

Page.  Par. 

kuLES  AND  Orders.  .                                                         ••.     77.  321. 

Further  evidence  under  Rule  24  Sect.  1.    l43.  474. 
The  D.  C.  if  it  proceeds  under  i?«/e  II. 
of  Sect  1.  cannot  admit  the  evidence  oTa 
witness  to  contradict   the   statement  of  a 

party  ..                                                     ..    235.  568. 

Kdlb  Nisi  (Vide  "  Revivor") 
fi.ULB  (Vide  "  Circular  Letter,'V 

Sale,     Conditions  of,                                                            -..     16.  84. 

Priority  of  mortgage  over  subsequent,                     ..      21.  107. 

Non-Opposition  .<it  a,                                                ...     37.  165. 

of  land.     Aise/ittoa,                                                ...     54.  229. 

■of  immoveable  property. .                                         .,      88.  366. 

of  more  than  vendor  is  entitled  to ...                       ..    IIU.  419. 

granted  by  the  S.  C.     Injunction  against  a,           ,.    i4'2.  471. 

of  the  mortgage   is   not   thereby    discharged.     A 

surety,  who  after  notice,  does  not  object  to   the,  ..    193.  533. 

in  Execution  how  established  in  evidence.    A,     ,.   226.  561. 

Proof  of  no  publication  of,                                        ...261.  611. 
Sbfaeation.     (Vide  "  Husband  andWife."J 

Service.     Notice  of,                                                              ..      14.  68. 

of  Process.     Form  of  returns...                          ...     22.  111. 

of  a  Notice   in  English  on   a  Cingalese  party  is 

not  "  due  notice ."                                                .,    341.  731. 

Services.    Eoyal  Village...                                                  ...   146.  476. 

Sentence  cannot  be  altered.    A,                                         ...     17.  90. 

Seamsn  engaging  for  the  whole  voyage...                           ,..     30.  137. 

Parole  engagement  of,                                            . .        ib  ib 

Sequbstration.  Waiver  of,                                                 ...     39.  177. 

Costs,.                                                        ..      46.  202. 

Purchase   in  ignorance   of,.      Division  of 

Costs...                                                       ...     94.  384. 

cannot  he  issued  in!o  other  Districts       ...    112.  431. 

Security  in   appeal  dispensed  with  where 
the   property   sequestered  is  sufficient  to 

cover  the  judgment  and  costs.                  ...  307,  666. 


[xlix.3 


Par 


SiauisTRATioN.  Where  the  property  sequestered  is  suiB- 
cient  to  cover  tlie  judgment  and  costs  no 
security  will  he  required  in  Appeal 330.         712, 

Servant.     {Vide  "  Master  and  Servant.") 

Security  for  Costs.     (Vide  "Costs") 

in  Appeal  (Vide  "  Appeal."^ 

Appraisement  of  property  tendered  aj,  ...   157.         497* 

Second  marriage  (Vide  "  Marriage") 
Servant's  wages  [Vide  "  Prescription."^ 
Secretary.     rFida  "Evidence"  and  "  Administration.")  ■? 

Sett-Oef  of  a  debt  due  by  A.  against  a  claim  of  B.  who 
admitted  that  A.  was  partly  interested  in  the 
claim...  .    106,        425. 

Seduction.     Parent  tsecoiding  a  party  to  child's  marriage 

contract.     Remedy  of  Husband  in  case  of,  210.         549. 

Shroff,     f' Fii/e  "Paymknt,"^ 

Specific  Performance,     Claim  of,,  when  prescribed    145.        475 

Speciality    (Vide  "  Evidence-") 

JStamp  oh  an  instrument  having  two-fold  operation. 
Money. 

Wrong  class.  — 

Agreement  to  marry.     Penalty.  .. 

Eegistry  of  Cartoms. 

Car  torn.  •• 

necessary  if  a  contract  is  reduced  to  writing. 

Merchant's  Account. 

Written  acknowledgment  of  a  balance, 

duty. 

A  deed  is  void  for  want  of  proper, 

Marriage  contract.  — 

The  Court  is  bound  to  receive  a  document  where- 

ever  the  Stamp  may  have  been  purchased  from.  ... 

how  supplied.    Deficiency  of. 


11. 

55. 

18. 

94. 

19. 

100. 

20. 

102. 

40. 

178 

S6, 

237, 

57. 

242. 

61. 

260. 

70. 

293. 

73. 

307. 

95. 

391 

97. 

398. 

33. 

510. 

1^6. 

64S 

Page.  Paf^ 

Statute  of  Fraubs.     A  contract  for  the  tale  of  growing 

timber  must  be  in  writing.               ...  304.  659, 

Stale  writs.    Presumption   of  payment.                      ...  340.  728. 

Strikikh  off  a  case.     (Vide  "  Case.'V 

SuBPCE.NAS.     Conditions  imposed  upon  issuing.                 —  297.  647, 

Succession.    Eight  of,                                                  —    67,  285. 

to  Temple  Property.                                    ..   332.  719. 

St'iTs.     Ordeifor  consolidation  of,                                    —  131.  447. 

Supreme  Court  how  far  entitled  to  interfere  with  decrees.     67.  284. 

cannot  alt er  its  own  decree.                      ...     86,  35S. 

Constitution  of,                                       _~  135.  457, 
will  not  alter  a  judgment  where  the   party 

aggrieved  has  not  appealed.    The,         —  202.  543. 
has  succeeded  to  the  powers  of  the    Wees- 

hamer.    The.                                          ...  279.  623. 

Suprr.ANNUATKD  Judgment.     (  Vide  "  Revivor."/ 

■Survivor    (Vide  "  Children"/ 

Surety  who  after  notice  does  not  object  to  the  tale 

of  the  mortgage  is   not   thereby   discharged.      A,  193.         SiS. 

A  cieditor  by  discharging  the  principal  from  gaol, 
wtt.hout  the  consent  of  tho  surety,  thereby  dis- 
chiTges  the,  . .     «4  ib 

paying  tho  debt,  is  entitled  to  stand  in  the  place  of 

the  creditor.     A,  ..   255,        59S, 

Where  Sureties  have  been  illegally  proceeded  a- 
gainst  their  remedy  is  by  action. 

Suspicions  against  Pit's  title.  _ 

S  URViiY  at  any  time  after  the  list  of  witnesses  has  been  filed. 
The  Court  may  order  a,  ..„ 

TiMPLE  Property. 

Action  against  a  late  Officer  of  a,  

Stamp  duty.     Exemption  in  favor  of, 

property.     Succession  to,  

XfiNDER.     Costs. 

Claim  not  tendered.    Costs. 
Admission  with,.    Cpsts. 


328. 

709 

96. 

392. 

286. 

68«. 

32. 

14«. 

36. 

IS9, 

73. 

307. 

332. 

719. 

31. 

143. 

37. 

166. 

92. 

378, 

Page.        Par. 
TnKTiNT.     (Vide  "  Landlord  and  Tenant.''^ 

Tknure.     mile,.     (Vide  "  Ratnapcoba.'V 

THESEWELLEME. 

Dowry  property  not  liable  to  husband's 
debts.  ..      24.         115. 

By  the  Law  of  Jaffna  a  son  is  not  liable  for 
his  father's  debts,  unless  the  latter  has  left 
property,  and  the  son  has  taken  possession 
thereof.  ..    254.         614. 

Jaiina  Customs.  A  woman  attains  majority  at 
13,  and  may  marry  without  the  parents  con- 
sent. If  forcibly  abducted  the  father  may  sue-  301.         655- 
Title  to  land.     Primi  facie, 

to  sue  pleaded,  but  not  proved.  

of  Pit.      Trespass. 

under  a  Fiscal's  Sale.  „_ 

.  Possession.     Acknowledgment  of, 

Prescriptive,.     (Vide  "  PBBSCRIPT[0}f."J 
.  Possession.     Presumption  in  favor   of  heir.      Ac- 
knowledgment of. 
Suspicions  against  Pit's. 
by  prescription.     (  Vide  •'  Adverse"  title) 
Tradesmen's  Books.     Evidence.  .. 

Transfer  of  Cases. 

of  a  mere  building  erected  on  Govt.  land, 
of  a  case  where  the  judge  is  a  party.  „ 

of  cases  on  establishment  of  new  Courts.  .. 

of  a  cause  instituted  in  a  wrong  Court, 
ofland.     Waiver  of  agreement  for,  ...   1 

Possession  of  the  pioperty  agreed  to  be  trans- 
ferred. —  145.  »5 
of  a  cause  on  the  ground  of  improper  proceedings 
ofaD.  J.                                                            ...  1R4.         SO?, 
and  consolidation  of  several  suits.     Order  for,  ..  191.        530. 
Grounds  for  transferring  a  suit  from  one   D.  C.  to 
another.                                                               ..    336.         723. 


13. 

64 

21. 

105. 

66. 

238. 

7'.!. 

S2.1. 

10. 

326. 

&7. 

360. 

96. 

393. 

155. 

496. 

16. 

160. 

So. 

231. 

71. 

297, 

92. 

374. 

ih 

S7>. 

43. 

475. 

cm.] 


Tbespass.     Title  of  Pit.  56. 

Joint  and  several  liability  of  Defts.  ...     92. 

In,,  -where  a  Deft  sets  up  the  title  of  a  third 
party,  the  Court  is  not  bound  to  make  him  a 
party,  unless  he  chooses  to  intervene.  ..  284. 

In,,  to  goods,  direct  proof  of  the  taking  is  not 
essential.     Justification.     Costs  in  the  original 


238, 
377. 


632. 


class. 

..   : 

310. 

672. 

Trial.     Objections  during,.  Appeal. 

44. 

196  . 

pending  interlocutory  Appeal.                              

S6, 

39  S 

Roll.      Power 

In  advance  cases  on  the. 

342. 

733 

Triple  Costs.     (Vide 

"Cosrs."; 

TRUSTEE,     A,,  for  the 

recovery  of  debts  is  liable  for  negli- 

gence.     ■ 



3:5. 

677- 

Variance  of  Bond. 

.w- 

25. 

116. 

Libel. 



38. 

171. 

claim  founded 

.  on  a  sale  and  possesiion. 

73. 

305. 

in  respect  of  the  expressions  used  in  an  action   of 

defamation. 

■  •                                 ^™- 

93. 

379. 

•  • 

339. 

726. 

Vendor  AND  Porch A8EB.    Remedy   of  Purchaser  in  the 

purchase   of  mortgaged     pro- 

perty.                                    .„ 

21. 

107. 

Overplus  upon  re-sale. 

22. 

io;>. 

Pit's  Vendor. 

28. 

128, 

Ccmpletion  of  transfer.     Pay- 

ment of  money.                    -.^ 

52. 

221. 

Duty  of  Purchaser.               

62. 

266. 

AVaiverofthe   Right   of   Ee- 

snmption   on  non-payment  of 

purchase  money.                    

66. 

281 

Eight  of  re-sale  on   default  of 

pnrchaser.                              

74. 

311. 

Purchase  in   ignorance  of  se. 

questration. 

94. 

384. 

Sale  of  more   than   vendor  is 

entitled  to,.                            __ 

.  104. 

419 

Page.         Par. 
Vendor  and  Purchaser.  An  action   does  not   lie  for  the 
whole   of  the   p'lrchase  money, 
where  th«  Vendor  has  exercised 
his  light  ofreselling...  ...305.         662. 

Vkrb.al  Bequest.      (Vide  "Bequbst."  and  "  Heirs") 

Vexatious  Appeal.     Costs.  ...  ...       3.  11. 

action  by  pauper.  106,  42i. 

.Appeal.     Fine  for,              „_  132.  449. 

Appeal.     Fine  for,  __  __  136.  459. 

Vow  of  poverty  does  not  excuse  the  performance  of  duties 

undeitaten.  —  ..        ib  458. 

Voyage.    Proof  of  damage  during,  ..  ...     78.        323. 

Waiver  of  sequestration            ...  -—  — ~  3S.         177. 

of  the  right  of  resumption.  (Vide  Vendor  and  PuRCH.isER.) 

of  one  of  the  grounds  of  action —  ...  ...  111.         429, 

of  a  plea  to  the  jurisdiction.  —  -■■  11"2.         432. 

of  agreement  &c.  {Vide  "Agreement.") 

of  the  contract.     Alleged,  ~  —  151-         ■IBS. 

Widow.     (Vide  "Administration.") 
Wife.      {Vide  "  Husband  and  Wife) 

Will.  Foreign,  ..  ..  ••     3i.         156. 

where  the  parties  have  for  several  years  put  their 
own  construction  on  it,  the  Court  will  not  disinrb  it. 
On  a  doubtful  clause  of  a. 

Witnesses.     Witness  to  a  deed.  ■••  — 

Acquittal  from  perjury. 
Credit  due  to. 
Absence  of. 

Plea  of  ignorance  for  not  having  summoned. 
Expences  of,  —  -•■  — 

necessary.     Personal   delivery  of  List  of,  ... 
When  Court  bound  to  hear. 
Postponement  on  account  of  the  absence    of 
material. 


217. 

554. 

5. 

26, 

6. 

27. 

12. 

58, 

ib. 

104. 

33. 

149. 

37. 

167. 

44. 

194, 

56, 

235. 

69.        291, 


Page.         Par 
Witnesses.     Proctor  when  competent  as  a  witness,        —    71.        299. 

Interpreter  of  a  Couit  as  a  witness-                    .-  72.  300. 

Evidence  to  discredit  a  witness™  ...                   ...  ib  301. 

Absence  of,             —                     ..•                 —  84.  352. 

Witress  convicted  of  Perjury.  Proof_  —  88.  365. 

Admissions  made  as  a  witness  in  a  former  case_  96.  394. 

Objection  to  a  witness.                 —                  -~  100.  404. 

Witness  convicted  of  Perjury.     Proof™           —  105.  421. 

Attesting,.     Proof  of  a  Bond.     Handwriting..  177.  515. 

before  the  S.  C.     Form  of  an  order  for   the  ex- 
amination of,  ...  ...  214.         551. 

The  D.  C.  if  it  proceeds  under  iJu/e  11  ofSeclJ. 
connot  admit  the  evidence  of  a  witness  to  con- 
tradict the  statement  of  a  party.  ..  ...  235.         568- 

the  Court  will  in  \ievr  of  the  customs  of  the 
Country  respect  their  feelings.  In  directing  the 
attendance  of  Parties  and,  ...  ~_  238.         575. 

were  tampered  with.      Appeal  on   the  ground 

that  the  Appellant's,  283,         629. 

The  Court  cannot  non-suit  a  Pit  merely  because 

be  has  not  summoned  certain,       _»  287.         639. 

A  witness  may  be  called  and  examined  though 

not  summnned.  — .  __  „     »5  ib 

On  a  postponement  in  consequence  of  a  Proc- 
tor's absence,  the  S.  C.  directed  the  Proctor  to 
pay  the  batta  of  the,  295.        644. 

though  not  on  the  List ;  and  may  call  witnesses 

at  its  own  instance.     The  D.  C.  may  hear,        ..  305.         662, 

does  not  dispense  with  legal  proof.     The   death 

of  all  the  attesting,  —  306.         663. 

living  4  miles  of  the  Court  not  entitled  to  Batta.  328.        708. 

not  on  the  List.    Examination  of,  ...  342,        732. 


fir.] 


Par 


Work  and  Labour.  In  an  action  for  work  and  labour 
where  the  Deft  pleaded  a  written 
agreement,  and  that  one  of  the  con- 
ditions thereof  had  been  broken  by 
the  Pit,  but  refused  to  prodhed  up 
Agreement,   the  Court  entered  up 

judgment  for  Pit.  240.        S79. 

Written  Aokeement.  {Fide  "  Agreement" J 

■Writs.    Stale,,     Presumption  of  payment.  —  $40.        72* 


.'UU 


