Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



i 



REPORTS 

OF 

IMPORTANT CASES 

Heard and Determined 



. y 



I 
1 

t 

SUPEEME COURT.OF CEYLOIf, 



BY THE 



^ 



DURING THE YEARS | 



1843-'56. 



^^Jl^ 



I 
1 

i 



BY 



r 
J 



The Hon. P. KAMA-NATHAN, m.l.c., 



ADVOCATE. 



\ 



I 



I 

1 



\ 




COLOMBO. 



i 



^ PRINTED BY JACOB Db LEEMA 
- - 18 8 4, 



V. 



I 

I 

J 
I 

c 

f 






J. 



H*^ 
^Mi 



r 



\'' I 



I 






AdminlBtmtion. 

1. — Administratiofi — Preferent right of widow — Moorish widow, 
A widow has a preferent right to letters of administration to 
her husband's estate, but as a Moorish woman would not appear or 
act in public except through an agent, it is desirable to grant adminis- 
tration jointly to her and another person. 

D. G, Manaar, 5,073. In re Wapoe Marcair ... 60 

2. — Administration — Parentage of applicant — Separate suit. 

Where the only child of intestate by his first marriage applied 
for letters of administration to his estate in default of the widow's 
taking them out, and letters where granted to the widow, who denied 
the legitimacy of the first applicant : 

lield, that the applicant could not establish her legitimacy in 
the administration proceedings but must bring a separate suit for 
the purpose. 

D. C, Badulla, 56. Bangee v. Bahe ... ... 139 

^.'-^Administration — Joint grant of letters. 

Administration can only be gi^en to one estate under one grant 
ef letters of administration, since it would lead to confusion to tdik 
up together estates in which different people are interested in differ- 
ent degrees. 

D* C, Jaffna, 7,S55. In re Deegopulle ir wife Anwxma, 68 

A^^-'Administration of Regimental Officer* s estate — Act 6 Geo. iv. 
e. 61— i?. f 0. 1838, sect, iv. r. 7. 

The district court appointed an administrator to the estate of 
W., paymaster of the Ceylon Rifle Regiment, after citation upon 
which neither widow nor next of kin had appeared. 

Held, that under the provisions of the Act 6 Geo. iv. c. 61 no 
Buch administrator appointed by the court was necessary, the major 
of the regiment (under Article 30, sect. 1 of the Articles of War) 
being authorised to collect the assets of a deceased officer; and that 
the present appointment must be set aside, although the administra- 
tor appointed had come forward out of friendliness for deceased, and 
had incurred expenses in the office, while the regimental nominees 
bad done nothing to secure the assets or to make an inventory. 

D. C., Colombo, 1,046. In re Warren, O^Halhran t. 

J^^^n^ and others ... ••• ».. 4^ 

5. — Administrator — Power to alienate and encwmher intestaie*$ 
property. 

By the settled practice here (see Chilaw No. 4,416, Morg, Dig-. 
p. 252) an administrator is at liberty to alienate^ and consequentlj 



8 

pAaE. 

to encumber, tbe whole estate entrusted to him, the remedy for the 
heirs being against the administrator and his heirs for malversation. 

D. C, Kandj, 19,124. Murugappa v. Christina ... 65 

6. — Administration by Secretary of Court, 
The Secretary is not authorized to file such an application for 
administration as is required when next of kin apply, but only an 
affidavit of death, under the 7 th clause of the Rules of Court, sect. 4. 
The intervention of a proctor is not necessary. 

D; C, Colombo, 1,056. In re George Adrian Perera, 

deceased ... ... ... ... 56 

7. — Interlocutory or final order — Grant of letters of administra" 
U^n^^Costs, f'uriher consideration of — Practice, 

A decree granting to a party letters of administration is a final 
order, and not interlocutory. 

When a court wishes to reserve to itself the further considera- 
tion of costs, it should expressly reserve such power in its decree. 

D. C, Badulla, 121. Be Mootoo Banda ... ... 120 

See Executor, 2, 5^ 

Administrator. 

See District Court, 2, 
Injunctio :, 2. 

Admission. 

See ^H PARTE HEARING. 

Judgment, 4. 
Prescription, 4. 

Adverse possession. 

See Possession, 1. 
Prescription, 1. 

Advocate. 

Advocates and proctors, duties of'-— Bill of costs — R, and 0,, • 
25th November, 1835, cl. 1 . 

Observations on the respective duties of advocates and proctors, 
and on the costs taxable by them. 

D. C, Kandy, 18,818. Ponna v. Kini, Ukkoova ... Ill 

Agreement 

Agreement to convey honse-^Vendee in possession — Ejectment-^ 
Notice to quit. 

Defendant, the owner of certain premises, agreed to convey 

them to plaintiff, who thereupon got into possession. No transfer was 



made, and defendant gave plaintiff notice to quit, in default 6i 
'which defendant threatened to remove plaintiff's things from the 
house. Two days later the defendant entered the house hj force 
and removed the things, for which plaintiff hrought the present 
action in trespass. 

Heldf (reversing the decision of the court below), that both by 
the English and the Eoman Dutch law the defendant was entitled to 
resume possession of the premises and to remove the furniture of 
the plaintiff therefrom after notice given to quit ; and that plaintiff's 
action must be dismissed. 

D. C, Jaffna, 4,591, Toussaint v. Sattorokelsinga ..* 174 

Sei Specific pebformance. 

Amendment 

See ItTDiCTBiEijT, 2. 

NONJOINDEB. 

AnimaL 

Animaly vicious-^-LiahiUty of owner for damage done hy-^ 
Scienter. 

Where the owner of a vicious animal has notice of its having 
done an injury, or being accustomed to do mischief, he is bound to 
secure it at all events, and is liable in damages to a party subse- 
quently injured, if the mode of securing it adopted proves to be 
insuflicient. 

C. E., Calpentyn, 2,066. Manuel v. Naina ... 65 

Appeal. 

1. — Appeal^^Interlocittory order — Stay of proceedings pending 
appeal from interlocaUory order — Postponement — Absence of material 
witnesses. 

It is only where the justice of the case requires the immediate 
settlement of the points raised in an interlocutory order, that the 
proceedings should be stayed pending appeal therefrom. 

"Where it is necessary for plaintiff to prove express malice in an 
action for defamation, and three of his witnesses on this point are 
shown by affidavit to be absent on process served, the court should 
allow him a postponement, notwithstanding that he is in a position 
to prove aliunde the publication of the defamatory matter. 

D. C, Galle, 10,965. Jayewardene v. Cripps ••• 128 

2. — Appeal out of time — Laches — Mortgage — Covenant to redeem 
within fixed period. 

Where it was sought to appeal against an error of law in a judg- 
ment pronounced six and a half years before^ against which an appeal 



Pao«. 
had prevlonslj' been lodged and withdrawn, and there was no fraud 
or other good ground alleged, the Supreme Court rejected the appeal. 
Though in general agreements for the redemption of mortgaged pro- 
perty within a time certain are invalid, yet such agreementi are in 
some exceptional cases upheld. 

D. C, Colombo, 81,586. ... .- ••• 186 

See Principal and subett, 1. 
Proctor, 5. 

Provisional judgment, 6. 
Petition of appeal, 1, 2. 

Appeal to the Queen. 

See Evidenqe, 6. 

Appearance. 

See Practice, 2. 

Arbitration. 

Arbiiration — Award — Death of party before award. 

The death of one of the parties to a reference, before award, 
revokes the submission in toto, if there is no provision to the contrary 
in the instrument of submission. 

D. C, JafEna, 1,019, Thilippo v. Domingo. ... 77 

Arrack, 

1. — Arrack f unlawful seizure of-^Ordinance No. 10 of 1844, 
9ect8. 84, 59 and 61. 

The 61st section of Ordinance No. 10 of 1844 makes penal the 
abuse of power and authority by persons having such ; and persons 
are therefore not punishable under this provision, that have acted 
Texatiously and without possessing any right whatever. 

P. C, Galle, 4,740. Janchy v. Silva ... ... 101 

2. — Arrack Ordinance No, 10 of 1844, sect. 4:0-^Effe€t of 
license on day of issue^— Divisibility of day. 

Defendant drew toddy on a certain day, and subsequently on the 
same day obtained a license in the form H. required by section 40 
of Ordinance No. 10 of 1844. 

Heldf that he had been rightly convicted of unlawfully drawing 
toddy in breach of that section. 

P. C, Ealutara, 7,996. Cokay v. Fernando ... 125 

3. — Arrackr^Ordinance No. 10 o/1844, sects. 82, 87 — Vehicle 
cf third party, confiscation of. 

Defendants were charged with possessing 16 gallons 6f arrack 
trithout ft license, and were convicted and fined and the arrack, and 



6 



Pjlqe. 



also the boat in which it was (which belonged to a party not 
defendant) declared forfeited. 

Hddy that though possibly the boat may have been intended for 
the illicit removal of the arrack, such intention alone would not render 
it liable to confiscation without evidence of the removal therein; and 
the Queen's Advocate not supporting the forfeiture, it was set aside. 

P. C. Matura, 1,718, Don Hiorms v. Hengo ... 90 

Arrest in mesne process. 

1. — Arrest in mesne process — Medifatio fiigm — Evidence hy 
affidavit — Seeurity for contingent and untaxed costs. 

Where the affidavit, on which warrant of arrest was prayed for, 
merely stated that deponent " doth verily believe, and hath good 
grounds for believing, that the plaintiff intends to leave the jurisdic- 
tion of the court," without setting out facts indicative of such intention^ 

Heldj that the affidavit was insufficient ; 

Held also, that a plaintifiE could not be arrested, at instance of 
defendant, in order to compel him to give security for contingent 
and untaxed costs. 

D. C, Galle, 10,888. Hushison y. Whiteside ... 14 

2. — Arrest in meme process — Mcditatio fugcs. 

To authorise a warrant of arrest against a defendant as in 
meditations fugcBf there must be a debt due, or some enormous perso- 
nal wrong done, to the plaintiff by the defendant; and in the case of 
debt the plaintiff must aver that he verily believes, and also show by 
the oath or affidavit of a third person that he has good reason for 
believing, that the defendant intends to abscond or \o leave th« 
jurisdiction of the court. 

The requisites for such warrant further discussed. 

D. C, Kandy, 25,440. Halyhurton v. Broughton ... 119 

Arrest 

Sea^ Murder. 

Arrest of Judgment 

Arrest of judgment^'Description in indictment as *^ hulloch^^-^ 
Proof of property. 

Where, on indictment for stealing a '^ bullock/' it was proved 
that the animal stolen was a Ml, 

Heldy this was no sufficient ground for arrest of judgment. But 
the fact that the animal was not proved to belong to the person laid 
as owner, nor to be in his possession, is a good ground for arrest 
of judgment. 

D. C; Colombo, 11;202. Kuda Appu v. Baba Appu .,. S 



Assault 

Assault — Trespass to land — Claim of right. 

Where upon a charge of aesault defendant pleaded not gnilty, 
and both parties claimed the land on which the assault took place ; 
and the police court referred the parties to a civil action in the 
first instance ; 

Held, that the order was wrong. The police court should have 
heard the complainant's evidence; after which the defendant would 
have been entitled to comment on the effect of that evidence and also 
to show that the assault was committed under an asserted authority, 
or pursuant to a claim of right of property ; because where title to 
property comes in question, the summary jurisdiction of justices of the 
peace is ousted, where the claim of title appears to be made hond fide, 

P. C, Matela, 250. Kaloo Banda v. Ooloo Banda ... 84 

Assault and robbery. 

See Indictkent, 3. 

Assessors^ 

See DistRiCT Cocjet, 2* 

Batlioaloa. 

See Su6CEssiON. 

Thesavalamai, 1* 

Beena marriage. 

See Kaitdyan law, 2, 3, 4. 

' Maintenance. 

Bond. 

Bond — Consideration — Specialty or simple contract-^JExceptio 
non numeratcB pecunice. 

Bonds in Ceylon stand on the same footing as simple contracts 
in England, and want or failure of consideration thereon may be 
proved by other evidence. Though the instrument cannot be contra- 
dicted hf parol evidence, such evidence may be adduced to show 
tinder what circumstances the instrument was entered into. Further, 
by the Roman Dutch law, a plaintifE suing within two years of the 
date of a bond must prove the passing of consideration if it be 
denied, unless the defendant have renounced the heneficium non 
numeraUB pecunice. 

D. C, Galle, H,502. Don Cornalis v. Manuel Perera... 161 

See Executor, 4. 

MoRTOAaE^ 2, 



Page. 

Book debt. 

See Costs, 4. 

Boundaries. 

Boundaries, disputed — Survey/. 

It is very desirable that where boundaries are in question 
parties should agree to a survey being made in presence of all the 
witnesses, but a court cannot compel an unwilling party to join in 
baying such survey made. 

D. C, Galle, 15,977. Meera Lebhe v. Sinne Lehhe ... 51 

Buddhist ecclesiastical law. 

1. — Buddhist ecclesiastical law — Amerapoora and Siamese sects 
^—Ejectment. 

Plaintiff, a priest of the I!iiolkeri galle branch of the Siamese 
sect of Buddhist priests, was entitled to the incumbency of a temple, 
to which, with plaintiff's consent, defendant, a priest of the Wihelle 
branch of the same sect, had been conducted, and which he had 
possessed and improved for many years. 

Held, that plaintiff was not entitled to recover in ejectment. 

D. C, Tangalle, 1,154. Somangalle Terunanse v. 

Sonnothe Terunanse . . ... ... 158 

2. — Buddhist priests — Amerapoora and Siamese sects — Gift as 
Sangike. 

J. made a gift of a garden, for the purpose of its being enjoyed 
(under the superiority of R, T., a priest of the Siamese sect) as 
sangike property by all priests resorting there. R, T. built a temple 
on the land in which he officiated till his death. He left two 
pupils, plaintiff and defendant, and the action was to restrain defend- 
ant (who had after ordination under R. T. gone over to the Amera- 
poora sect) from officiating in the temple. 

Held, reversing the decree of the district court, that the gift 
was for the sole benefit of the Siamese sect, and that it would be 
contra formam doni to permit a priest of the Amerapoora sect to 
hold the property. 

D. C, Galle, 15,092. Dammadase v. Sohita ... 42 

8'. — Buddhist priest — Inheritance from father. 
Although a priest, if he has lay brothers and sisters, can have 
no claim to his father's land by inheritance, yet if he be the only 
child he inherits in preference to collaterals. The rule that a priest 
taking the robe renounces all wealth is not universal, as he may 
take by. gift, bequest or purchase, and inherits from brothers and 
sisters. 

D. C, Ratnapoora, 6,436. Kande v. Kiry Naidc & another 61 



Page. 

Carrier. 

Carrier --Conviying goods for hire "a# a public business*' -^ 
Necessity for license — Ordinance No. 3 of 1848, sect, 6, [^No. 14 of 
1865, sec. 16.] 

Section 6 of Ordinance No. 3 of 1848 made punishable any 
person who without a license used hia carriage for the convejance 
of goods for hire as a public business. To hire one's carriage for 
a single job constitutes no breach of the Ordinance. 

P. C, Colombo^ 11,096. Oibson v. Silva... ... 105 

Champerty. 

Champerty — Bond fide loan — Illegal contract. 

Where plaintiff had lent defendant money for a law suit agreeing 
that they should divide the subject of suit if successful, and plaintiff 
appealed i^gainst a conditional judgment in his favor in a suit to 
recover the loan, 

Held, that as neither party pleaded the illegality of the con- 
sideration, and plaintiff appeared to have lent the money bond fide, 
the Supreme Court would not set the transaction aside. 

D. C, Ratnapoora, 4,939. Wattoohamy y. Dingyhamy.,. 32 

Commission to examine. 

See Evidence, 2, 3. 

Examination of parties, I. 

Compounding offence. 

Compounding offence. 

After the offenders have been prosecuted and convicted, no 
charge of con»pounding the offence can be supported. 

D. C, Kumagalle, 121. The Queen v. Kauralle ... 120 

Consideration. 

Consideration on deed of sale — Evidence — Contradicting written 
contract. 

Where a deed of sale expressed clearly the receipt of con- 
sideration, 

Held, that plaintiff could not show non-payment of consideration 
in contradiction of the deed. 

C. R., Negombo, 164. Lieme t. Lisme ... ... 20 

See Bond. 

Provisional JUpaiCEKT; 5. 
Stamp^ 4. 



10 



Paob. 



Contempi of Court. 

1. — Contempt of Court — Plaintiff giving process server false 
information as to defendants whereabouts. 

PlaintifE, ivhen requested by the process server to point out bis 
defendant, said be bad gone to tbe coast, knowing tbat this was false. 
The district court found plaintiff guilty of a contempt. 

Heldj tbat tbe plaintiff baying been under no legal obligation 
to point out tbe defendant, could not be punished as for a contempt 
because be bad giyen false information as to the defendant's where^ 
abouts, it also not appearing that senrice of tbe process was pre- 
Tented by such false information. 

D. C, Colombo, 5^ The (^een y. Sidemberem ... lOT 

2.*^Contempt of Court — Jnjunction'^Writ of sequestration — 
Intermeddling mth property sequestered. 

Where tbe district court issued a writ of sequestration directing 
tbe fiscal to sequester certain property and to notice parties in 
possesion of such property to reserre and retain tbe same ; and 
appellant, who was in possession of a bouse included in tbe writ, put 
a door and window to it and lived therein,^ and was punished for 
this act as for a contempt of court: 

Heldy that no contempt had be^ proved an^ tbat the ecmviction 
must be set aside. 

D. C, Caltura,, 10,028. Me D. P. 0. Sineweratns .... lift 

^.'^ConUmpt of Court — Writ of possession — Subsequent dis- 
turbance by defendant — Practice — Ord%nance 12 of 1848 [No. 12 of 
1862, iV^o. 11 0/1868 e/c.j 

Where plaintiff obtained a decree for land and was put in quiet 
possession by the fiscal in April 1845, and in July 1846 a criminal 
complaint as. for a contempt was filed by plaintiff charging that " the- 
defendant has been and is hitherto^' withholding and retaining 
jKMMessioii of part of the land, 

Beldy tb^t this was not properly a ground for the summary 
proceedings of contempt. 

The district court may proceed without the interference of the- 
Queen's Advocate in all casea of contempt committed before it or 
against the ej^ecutipn of its process, the Ordinance No. 12 of 1843; 
being inapplicable to such cases. 

When a party baa onoe been put into quiet ppssession under a 
decree by the fiscal, and defendant commits a subsequent trespass,. 
tiie general practice ia to institute a new action, in which tbe only 
jissues will be tbe putting into possession under tbe decree, and the 
defendant's subsequent trespass, on proof of which issues in plaintiff's. 
iiXor the court would award exemplary damages against the defendant. 

IX C, Galle, 8,827. ({ueen v. Abraham ... ... 7% 



li 



I^JJikt 



4, — dontempt of Courts ubarrant of arrest for -^ Specification of 
X>ffenc€ — R, d 0. 1888, sect. ii. (Forms^,) 

Where a person was detained by the fiscal by virtue of a 
Warrant under the hand of a district judge, directing the fiscal to 
take into his custody the said person " charged with contempt of 
court :" 

Held, that, such detention was unlawful. As a general rule, in 
all cases of imprisonment on warrant, the cause of commitment must 
iappear on the face df the warrant. In a charge of contempt of 
court there should be a specification of the fact ot facts constitu- 
ting the species of contempt intended, in order that the offence 
may appear to the judges on a kabeas eorpue. The form of war-^ 
rant of arrest for contempt, given in the R, & O., sect. 2, Forms, 
is in accohiance with this view. 

re Gabriel Perera ivi •*• ... tt 



See Stamp, 3. 

Contract 

l.-'^ontraeiy Ute^cU-^Purchasing of officei'^ifaxitn, Em turpi 
raM«d nofi oriiwr actio. 

Where plaintiff sued to recover from defendant a sum of money 
paid for thA pi^ocurement to the plaintiff of a place imder Govern- 
ment, de&ndant having failed to procure such place: 

Held, that the contract being illegal, and plaintiff in pari 
delicto with the defendant, he could not recover. 

D. C.^ Batticaloa, 11^288; Sedospacfy 7, Nicholas ... lid 

See BoNii. 

Champertt. 

JUBGMEWT, Si, 

Stamp, 4. 

Contribution J action foti 

See CoSTS) 2* 

Costs. 

l.-^Cosis, tiahility for-^Minor suing by next ffiifid. 
Where a minor sues by his next friend he is not liable in costii^ 
but the next friend is. The minor is liable if after attaining 
majority he have taken the condtlct of the suit upon himself; 

D* C.^ Jaffna; ^^^ . Caderase» t* Cadersn and anotheir* 6d 



li 



PaQK. 



^."^CoiiB, lidbility for, in solidum — Action for contribution — 
Prescription — Ordinance No, 8 of 1834, sects. 5, 6. 

Where plaintiff and defendant were condemned in costs, and 
plaintiff paid the whole costs and three years after sued defendant 
to recover half of the amount so paid, 

Held, that the court was bound by the decision reported in 
Morgan's Digest, par. 545, to the effect that parties condemned gene- 
rally in costs are liable singuli in solidum, and that therefore pay- 
ment of the whole by plaintiff was compulsory. 

Held also, that plaintiff's claim was not prescribed as an action 
on an unwritten promise, under sect. 5 of Ordinance No. 8 of 1834. 

D. C, Galle, 8,262. Weireman v. Jayesondra ... 17 

Z*^-Tnple costs '•^District Court, 

The Supreme Court finds no warrant in the Dutch law for 
district courts awarding triple costs. 

D, C, Colombo, 8,931. Silvav.Juan ... ... 4 

A.-^OostSf prescription against right to levy for — Booh debt or 
account — Maxim, Certum est quod cerium reddi potest. 

Where plaintiff was condemned in costs in August 1840, and 
defendant in November 1848 moved to issue writ to recover them, 
plaintiff contended that the right was prescribed in the three years as 
% '* book account." 

Held, that costs formed part of the sentence, and formed there- 
fore no book debt between plaintiff and defendant but a judgment 
debt^ which had not been prescribed. 

Held also, that the delay in taxation did not affect this que8tion,a8 
costs were given by the judgment, and certum est quod certum reddi potest, 
D. 0., Chilaw and Putlam, 6,666. Jayeuardene v. 

Seniweratne.^m ... .»• ... 17 

b,^^ Costs, exorbitant^-Supreme Court reviewing taxation of 
district court. 

On complaints of exorbitant charges in bills of costs, the Supreme 
Court always exercises great vigilance, as the charge affects the conduct 
of the proctors, who are not in the habit of objecting to each other's 
high charges, of which the pai^ics know nothing until execution issues. 

D, C, Galle, 11,008. Seneweratne v. Louis ... US 

See Administration, 7. 
Advocate. 

Arrest in mesne process. 1« 
Evidence, 8. 
Exaggeration or claim. 
Judgment, 5. 
Stat of proceedhigs. 



18 



PAGk. 



Court of Requests^ 

Court of J^iqtiesta, jurisdiction of-^ Abatement of cause of damage 
— Ordinance No. 10 o/1848, sett, 5 [iS^o. 11 o/ 1868, sect. 81.] 

In an action to recover damages done to plaintiffs premises by 
defendant's trees, a court of requests has no power (under the 
Ordinance No. 10 of 1848) to require the trees in question to be 
cut down. 

0. R., Matura, 2,849. Altendorff ▼. Janst ... 147 

See Nonsuit. 
Practice, 1. 

B£Ht. 

Crown, liability of the. 

See Iksolvsnct, 1> 
Partition, 3. 

Crown land. 

l.-^Croton land-^ Summary proceedings to recover — Ordinance 
No. 12 0/ 1840— " ProftaW* claim or pretence of title:' 

In what cases the summary proceedings under the Ordinance 
No. 12 of 1840 are applicable, is pointed out, 

D. C, Negombo, 11,388. Buller v. Sadrie Mendis ..* 134 

2. — Crown land, possession of^ without tight'^Proeeedinjsi to 
recover — Ordinance No, 12 of 1840, sect. 1 — Onus probandi-^ 
** Probable claim,*' 

» 

In a proceeding under Ordinance No^ 12 ctf 1840 to recover 
Crown land unlawfully taken possession of by the defendant, the • 

burden is on the plaintifE to show primd facie that (1) the defendant 
had entered or taken possession without any probable claim or pre- 
tence of title, and that (2) the defendant had not cultivated, planted 
or otherwise improved and otherwise held uninterrupted possession 
of such land for five years. 

D. C, Kandy, 6,108. The Queen v. Hah^oo Maha- 

mcuioo ... ..« ... •.• 129 

5. — Crown land — Presumption in favor of Crown — Ordinance 
No. 12 O/1840, sect. 6. 

The presumption in sect. 6 of Ordinance No. 12 of 1840 only 
arises in cases to which the Crown is a party, and therefore, in a 
case between private parties, when the plaintifE admitted that he held 
neither sannas nor grant of any kind, and that no taxes or servicea 
had been paid or rendered for the same, 



u 

ffetd, thai the plaintiff Was Wrongly non-Auite^. 
Quaere, whether, comparing them with the finfc part of the 
cUuae, the words in sect. 6, " luid not to be the property of any 
person claiming the same against the Cix>wn|" haVid not cVept into the 
Ordinance per incuriam, 

D. C, Kumegalle, 10,277. Mulkaduwawe v. Bang 

£itenu ••> ••» ••• ••• 25 

ihmagesn 

Damages — Vnlawfut imprieanment-^Acquiescefua, 

Where the defendant was not justified in keeping plaintitf in the 

stocks all night, but plaintiff had refused to oome out when desired 

by defendant, 

Heldy that plaintiff Was not entitled to damages. 

D. C, Colombo, 9,371. Fernando v. Coulihard «.» ««> 6 

See Animal. 

Defloration. 
Proctor, 6. 
Tattaharoo. 

Oeatti of party. 

See Arbitration. 
Execution, L 
Partt, 1, 2. 

Defamation^ 

l.^Defamation^Pteading^S. 4t 0., 8M July 1842, 4^. !-*• 
IncansUtent pleaa^-^uHifieatian at truth — Kandyan lauf-^Castti 
ome8U8, 

Where an action is brought in a court other than that of thil 
district in whidi the .cause of action arose, on account of the judgtf 
of the latbir court being a party to the action, the <3ase is to be 
governed by the law of the district where the cause of action arose. 
Where such lair is the Kandyan law, «nd it is silent on the subject^ 
the case, must be goyemed, not hj the English law, but by the rules 
of natural equity and right, and the court in applying these will 
take as its guide the principles of equity tt administered in the courts 
in England. 

In an action for de&mation, the pleas of the general issue 
and of justification, though inconsistent, may foe pleaded under rule 
1 of B. and O. of 5th July 1842. 

ki such An Action it is sufficient to give the substance only of 
the oral statements on which the defamatory matter is justified^ 



15 



Paoi. 



Tbe simple plea of truth is no justification of a libel. To be a 
justification it most be stated and shown that the truth was uttered 
without malice and for a lawful purpose. 

D. 0.> Ck>lombo, 5,560. Pertra v. Morrii ... 92 

2. — D$famaium^^Slander^MaHekm9 inUni — Kandj^n Pro- 
vinceSf law of. 

By the Roman I>utch law, a malicious intent ia necessarj to 
constitute a verbal injurj. 

D. C.y Kandj, 22,24d. Lakeman y. Bain ... 160 



S. — D^amaHon-^PfiviUgtd communieaiUm-^LetUr ab^ui one 
wiember written by another to Committee of Cluk 

PlaintifE a member of a dub claimed damage? for a libel con- 
tained in a letter written by defendant, another member, to the 
Committee ol the Club, in which he called plaintiff a liar. This 
letter was written upon the oommittee demanding of defendant an 
explanation of his conduct int posting on the walla of the dub a 
placard declaring plaintiff to be a liar. 

MeUij reversing the nonsuit entered below, that the letter in 
question waa not a privileged communication,, and that, without 
entering into the truth of the libdlous matter, the defendant was not 
justified in giving that matter such publication, and that plaintiff 
was therefore entitled to damages. 

D. C^ Kandy^ 25,990. Pareone v. /&% ... 52 

Default 

See JeixiiiSNT 1, 2, «^ 

Defloration. 

Deporatio% aeHonfbt damafee fvt. 

In ordsx to maintain an action for defloration it is not necessary 
that plaintiff should make oath of previous virginity, nor need the 
libd allege it. 

The oath of defendant, denying prosuse to marry, is not admissi- 
bla here^ because not admissible in the same f oorm <tf action in 
England [until 9 and 10 V., c. 95.] 

D. C.> Colombo, 85^8001 Dime t. Perera ... ... 14 

Demurrer. 

l.-*-2>Mn»fT#r^ feneweL 

Since the new rulee of the &ih July 1842 it baa not been the 
practice of the distiict ooort of Oolombo to allow general demurrers, 
ezeepting to the suftdency of the libel in general terms without 
showing specially the nature of the objection. 

D, C, Kandy, 16,016. Wi9e v. Ibrahim Sahib ... » 



i 



1^ 



PJlGI. 



^s-^^Dimurrer over^rtited — Leave to plead over. 
Where the court below had over-ruled a demurrer to an answer 
and given leave to the party demurring to plead to the merits, ac- 
cording to the practice of the court. 

Held, that the practice of the court was a sufficient ground, and 
that the rules of pleading in this colony having in view an explicit 
statement of all facts of the case which are material to a just judg- 
ment on the merits, it would be contrary to those rules to give judg- 
nxent in the present stage of the case, two valid defences being 
disclosed on the record. 

D. C, Kandy, 19^630; MahamadoY, AsBena Marikar,.. 83^ 

8. — Demurrer to libel — Leave to amend — Payment of coete-^ 
Jt, ^ O.of bth July 1842, sect. 4. 

Where a district court upon demurrer held the libel bad,, giving 
BO costs of demurrer^ and permitted plaintiff to amand within 8 days^ 
without directing payment of costs consequent upon amendment, 

Heldy that the terms imposed were warranted by sect. 4 of th» 
Rules of Practice of 5th July 1842, and were in the discretion of 
the judge. 

I>. C, Galle, 12,030. Si^ru Lihhe v. MeeraLehhe ... 71 

See Ej'ectment, 1. 

District Court. 

1. — District Court — Ultra vires — Res judicata^ avoidance of. 

The district court, upholding a plea of res- judicata, yet held 
there were circumstances entitling the plaintiff to relief from it, and 
ordered the filing of an amended answer. This order was affirmed 
by a judge on circuit, and the cause came for trial before another 
district judge, who upheld the plea of res judicata and nonsuited 
plaintiff 

Held, that the question of res judicata was not now open,, and 
that the. nonsuit was wrong. 

B. C, Galtura, 13,252. NatcMaY. Casy^Lehhe ... 152 

2. — District Court — Power to commit administrator to ffool in 
default of filing account — Absence of assessors — Irregularity, 

A district court has no power to order that an administrator *'be 
knprisoned, if he does not file a satisfactory account within a given 
time, in default to be committed to gaol.'' No assessors having beea 
present when this order was made, it was set aside as irregular. 

D. C, Trincomalie, 17,542. Be Teywane ^. l^$> 

See Costs, 8. 

JUDGMEKT, 1, 5L 



17 

Pagi. 

Donation. 

1. — Donation by parent to child in potestate — Roman Dutch law 
— Local custfun to tht contrary » 

Bj tbe Roman Dutch law a parent cannot legally make a dona- 
tion to his minor child who is still under his tutelage, but a person 
contending for such a power may prove a local custom superseding 
the written law. 

D. C, Jaffna, 4,347. Sidembren v. AyenpulU ... 114 

2. — Donation — Necessity for acceptance appearing on dted-^ 
Marriage^ date of- — Registration, 

The acceptance of a donation may be proved any way, and need 
not be in writing, nor appear on the face of the instrument. 

A marriage among natives is not constituted by registration per 
«€,and it may admit of doubt whether in any case the marriage 
dates from the registration, 

D. C, Tangalle, 1,174. TillekeratneT. Tennekoon ... 155 

3. — Donation on condition of rendering services — Inheritance of 
donated land by heirs. 

Where a donation is made subject to the rendering of service 
by the donee to the donor, the custom is for the donee to send one or 
more servants to wait upon the donor, to supply provisions and 
medicine, and procure burial according to his ability, the condition 
of the party and value of the land; and the services not being ex- 
pressed to be performed by the donee personally, his heirs although 
not named in the deed, take by law on his death an interest in the 
condition and may perform it. 

D. C, Kornegalle, 12,121. Kttday. Dingo •.. 159 

See Mortmain laws. 

Double costs. 

See Judgment, 5. 

Ejectment. 

1. — Ejectment — Form of libel — Demurrer founded on priscrip' 
Hon — Ordinance No, 21 o/ 1844. 

The fictitious action of ejectment is unknown to the law of thii 
Island. A libel is not demurrable by reason of the Ordinance No. 21 
of 1844, but the objection should be pleaded in bar, as under an 
Ordinance for the limitation of actions. 

D. C, Galle, 11,864. Bastian v. Siman ... ... 64 



18 

2. — Ejectment — Description of subject matter in libel — Pleading, 

Where the libel set forth that plaintiffs were '* seised and 
possessed as of their own property of, &c." 

lielcff that this averment left it uncertain whether plaintiffs 
claimed right of property or of possession only, and that libel must 
be amended. 

Held also, that ** Maha Bandara watte*' was an insufficient des- 
cription of a land from which ejectment of the defendants was 
prayed. 

D. C, Amblangodde, 4,497. Babachy v. Leonia 4.. iS 

See Agreement. 

Buddhist ecclesiastical law, 1^ 
Service tenures. 

Euidence. 

1. — Evidence — Witness , competency of — Objection after exami- 
nation. 

It is too late to question the competency of any witness after 
the party has permitted the examination to proceed. ^ 

C. R., Colombo, 12,807. Middleton v. Jansz ... 118 

2. — Evidence — Commission to examine witnesses abroad — 
Materiality — Affidavit oj. 

Observation on the procedure to obtain a commission for the 
examination of witnesses abroad. 

D. C, Kandy, 19,362. Anstruther v. AraJbin ... 76 

3. — Evidence — Commission to examine witnesses — Ordinance No. 
8 0/1846, sect, 7 — Pleadings — GostSy division of. 

Observations on the object and form of pleadings and on the 
procedure to be adopted in issuing commissions for the examination 
of witnesses abroad. 

Where any novel point arises, and precedents are conflicting, it 
is the invariable practice of the Supreme Ck>urt in appeal to divide 
the costs, 

D. C, Kandy, 19,362. Admors, of Mackenzie v. Arabin 66 

4. — Evidence — Counterpart documents executed contemporaneous- 
ly — Duplicate originals. 

Where a bond was executed in triplicate, one copy given to the 
obligee, one attached to the notary's protocol, and one filed in the 
district court (though such filing was not required by law:) 

Held, that upon an indictment for perjury, where the signature 
to the bond was in question^ the copy filed in the district court might 



19 



IPaqKi 



Ibe produced in evidence without accounting for the absence of either 
of the other copies* 

The Qiieen ▼. Juanis ... ..% •.. 181 

b. "-^Evidence — Husband and wife — Marriage not registered 
under Regulation 9 of IS22 lOrdinance No. 6 of 1847, No. 13 of 
1863] — Evidence of wife. 

In a charge of murder, the prisoner's wife was examined for the 
prosecution. She was married according to Sinhalese custom, but 
the marriage had not been registered under Hegulation 9 of 1822. 

Heldf upon motion in arrest of judgment, that such marriago 
was invalid only for the purposes specified in sect* 3 of the Procla- 
mation, and that the woman's evidence was inadmissible, and the 
conviction must be set aside. 

The Queen v. Dingy Appu ♦.* .*. ... 188 

6. — Evidenee^^Statement of prisoner on oath — Admissibility at 
irial— Ordinance Ifo, 15 of 1843, sect. 23 [Ordinance No. 11 of 1*868, 
sect, 143] — Appeal to Queen in Council — postponement of sentence. 

Upon the trial of an indictment for theft, the prosecution read 
in evidence the deposition of the prisoner made on oath at a time 
when no person had been charged with the crime. This having been 
objected to, the prosecution put in the prisoner's statement (made to 
the justice after he was charged) in which he referred to his deposi- 
tion as containing what he had to say in his defence. The evidence 
was left to the jury, who convicted the prisoner. 

Held, upon a case reserved, that by the English law the prison* 
er^s deposition was admissible ; and that when by the reading of the 
prisoner's subsequent statement the objection was removed, the 
deposition need not again have been read to the jury. 

Held also, that under sect. 23 of Ordinance No. 15 of 1843^ 
witnesses were only compellable to answer questions that were legally 
demandable, and not such as would tend to criminate them. 

The points raised having been fully argued in court and solemn- 
ly determined, the court unanimously refused to postpone the 
sentence on the prisoner pending appeal to Her Majesty in Privy • 
Council. 

The Queen v. Sinne Lebbe ••• ... ..« 144 

7. — Evidence^" Receipted account particulars — Delivery of receipt. 

Where plaintifE sued for goods sold and delivered, which defen- 
dant pleaded he had bought in discharge of a debt due to him from 
plaintifE; and at the trial the account particulars produced by plain- 
tiflE bore the indorsement "received payment" signed by the plaintifE | 
whereupon the court below gave judgment for defendant » 



20 

Page* 

Beld, tHat, tbere haying been no delivery of the receipt and no 
consideration therefor, the receipt did not estop plaiutifiF, nor warrant 
the judgment for the defendant. 

e. R., Nuwera Eliya, 897. Don v. Perera ... 121 

8. — Evidence — Rebutting evidence — Bight of reply. 

Where defendant called evidence to contradict his receipt pro- 
duced by plaintifE, plaintiff was^entitled to call evidence in rebuttal, 
without giving defendant the right of reply. 

D. C, Galle, 15,779. Tamhy Sailm v. De Silva ... 54 

9. — Evidence — Large number of ivitnesses, 

A couvt is not bound to hear a long list of witnesses when 
satisfied their story is false, but it ought to examine a sufficient 
number to preclude the possibility of their having been bought over 
by the other side. 

P. C, Jaffna, 9,136. Armogam v. Wayrewen ... 107 

See Account stated. 

AkREST in mesne PR0C£a9. 1. 

Consideration. 
Judgment, 3, 

K ANDY an law, 1. 

Witness, 2. 

Exaggeration of claim. 

Exaggeration of claim — Uecovery according to tith — Secundum 
prohatct-^Ooste, 

Though a plaintiff claims more than he is entitled to, he must 
recover " according to his title" ; and should not be non-suited for 
proving lesfr than he claimed, though in gross instance* he may be 
deprived of costs. 

D. C, Colombo, 36,718. Pottooma Natchia t. Sinnachy 3$ 

Examination of parties. 

1. — Examination of parties— Discretion of court — Commission 
— /?. ^ 0. lS33y8eet. i, rr. 29, ^l-— Ordinance No. a o/1846 sect, 7, 
It i& in the discretion of the court to permit or refuse the ex- 
amination by one party of the other, whether the application be 
made under B. & O. af 1st October 183S, sects. 1, rr, 29, 31 or 
under sect. 7 of Ordinance No. 3 of 1846, which last enables the court 
to issue a commission for such examination. 

D. C, Jaffna, 14,036. Moorgappa Chetty v. Oomara^ 

iamy ... ... ., ... 7B 



21 



Paqi. 



2. — Examination of party to ««< — Attendance in court — Moorish 
female— R. d O. 1838, sect, i, rule 29. 

Th« district court has power, upon the application of a party to 
a suit, and in the exercise of its discretion, to order the attendance 
in court of an adverse party for examination vivd voce, although such 
adverse party he a Moorish female, and as such averse to appear- 
ing in puhlic. 

D. C, Jaffna, 1,894. Sacfoona v. MaKamadoo ... 85 

8. — Examination offartiee — i?. ^ 0. 1833, eect. i, rr. 29, 81 — 
Ordinance No. 12 of 1843, eect. 14. [Ordinance No, 9 of 1852, 
sect, 14.] 

The mutual examination of parties to a suit may be allowed at 
any time by the court, if it thinks fit, with all the latitude of cross- 
examination. 

D. C, Chilaw, 14,526. Bawa Markar v. Meera Saiboo 117 

4. — Examination of parties before issue joined — R. ^ 0. 1833, 
eect, i, rr. 29, Z\— Ordinance No, 12 of 1843, sect, 14, [Ordinance 
No. 9 of 1852, sect. 3.] 

The court may at any time it sees fit allow the mutual exami- 
nation of parties with all the latitude of cross-examination. 

D. C, Kandy, 20,044. .„ ... ... 137 

Exceptio non numeratcB pecunice. 

See Bond. 

Execution. 

1. — Execution by survivor of two or more plaintiffs. 

If after judgment and before execution one of the plaintiffs 
dies, survivors make take out execution in the name of all, or stating 
death of one plaintiff may take out execution in the name of the 
survivors. 

D. C, Manaar, 2,054. Aumker Lehbe v. Mamel Tamby 36 

2, — Execution sale, proceeds of — Contending claimant — Prefer- 
ence and concurrence. 

Proceeds of an execution sale, when in custodia legis and not 
paid over to th9 creditor who took out execution, forms a fund for 
the benefit of all creditors, and not only of that one who effected the 
sale in execution; and such proceeds cannot be paid over till prefer- 
ence or concurrence of claims has been determined. 

D. C, Jaffna, 4,011 & 10,939. Buller v. Racket 

See Abatem£nt. 
Practice, 11, 



••• 



23 



^AQt, 



Executor. 

1. — Executor de son tort — Liability beyond assete received. 

By the Dutch law persons other than the heirs who meddle 

with the property of a deceased person are not liable for more than 

their intromissions. 

D» C, Qalle, 14,879. Doa Nicholas v. Juatina ... 58 

2. — Executory sole, practice on death of — Eight to administration. 
Where appointment of executor fails by death of sole executor 
before probate, the will should be proved as otherwise, and adminis- 
tration cum testamento annexe granted to residuary legatee or person 
having greatest interest under the will. 

D. C, Batnapura, 85. In re Pahalawette. ... 32 

S.^-^Exectitor, contract by — Co-executors '■^Joinder as plaintiffs. 
Where an executor has enrered into a contract in his own name, 
And not expressly as agent also for his co-executor, or on behalf of 
the estate, the other executor need not be joined as plaintiff in an 
action upon the contract. 

D. C, Galle, 14,S19. Allitna Vmma v. Silva ... 123 

4. — Executor, action against, on testator's bond — Administration, 
Plaintiff, widow of a usufructuary mortgagee, sued the execu- 
tor of the mortgagor on the mortgage bond, alleging continuous 
possession of the land mortgaged from date of bond. At the trial it 
appeared that the mortgagee's estate had been administered and 
closed by his surviving brother, who had made no mention of the 
present debt in his inventory. The district judge absolved the 
defendant, apparently believing the debt satisfied from its omission 
in the inventory and plaintiff's waiting two years after mortgagee's 
estate closed to bring this action. 

In appeal, new trial ordered. Omission from inventory may be 
administrator's fault, as plaintiff alleges having got the bond at close 
of estate. Plaintiff has made out a primd facie case to call for 
the defence. 

D. C, CJolombo, 11,176. Livera v. Domingo Peris ... 80 

Executor de son tort. 

See Executor, ]. 
Party, 2. 

Ex parte trial. 

Ex parte hearing — R, ^ 0, 17 th June 1844, rule i-^Defendant* s 
presence — Admission of debt during party's examination. 

Where defendant in his examination as a party admits the debt 
sued on, the plaintiff should have judgment without further proof « 



it 



Paoi. 



Wheneyer under rule 4 ^ plaintiff is required to adduce further 
evidence, the defendant has a right to be present and to cross-examine 
plaintiff's witnesses. For the purpose of leading such evidence plain- 
tiff has a right to expect some early day to be named, and the case 
should not to be set down on the trial roll. 

D. C, Kandj, 19,642. Hamilton t. Ron ... 78 

See PsAcriCB, 9. 

false accusation. 

False accusation — Ordinance No. 15 o/* 184d, sect 18 [^Ordinance 
No. 11 0/1868, sect. 166]— /"a/w affidavit. 

Where upon a charge of " wilfully making a false accusation 
against one Calingoorale for cattle stealing before the justice of the 
peace," it appeared that the false information Was contained in an 
k&davit, 

Held, that the offence was not punishable under sect. 18 of 
Ordinance No. 15 of 1843. 

P. C, Kaigalle, 1,145. Qaeen v. Punchyraale ... 80 

false case. 

False case^ Dismissal without evidence. 

A judge has no right to dismiss, without evidence or examina^ 
tion of parties, a case which he suspects to be false. 

C. E., Jaffna, 2,607. Ihrakim v. Awokker ... 99 

false imprisonment 

False imprisonment — Police Court, jurisdiction of. 
It is clearly competent to a police court to try a charge of false 
imprisonment. 

P. C, Galle, 12,488. Batdhy Hamy v. €asy Lebhe ... 165 

felong. 

See Minor. 

fiscal. 

1. — FiscaVs sale — Schedule of Udeaty necessity for^ before seimfe 
— Ordinance No. 1 of 1842. 

Upon writ of execution issued in the Northern Province, the 
writ-holder must produce to the fiscal a schedule of the Udear for 
the land proposed to be levied on, before the fiscal can be required 
to seize in execution of the writ {Per Carr and Stare, J. J., 
dissentiente Oliphant, C. J.) 

D. C, Jaffna^ 2,599. Tovssaint v. Veerapatran ... 166 



Page. 
2. — Schedule for fiscaVs sale of land, custom regarding. 
Observation ou ihe points to be established before it can be 
beld that a fiscal cannot sell land in execution without a schedule, 
there being no provision on the point in the fiscal regulation. 

D. C, Jaffna, 2,699. Toussaint v. Chettiar •.. 149 

Forfeiture. 

See Principal and surety, 1, 
Regookizances. 

Fraud. 

Fraud, pleading of — Presumption against fraud. 
Where plaintiff charges fraud and irregularities in the conduct 
of a fiscaFs officer in the conduct of a sale in execution, he must set 
out the particulars of the fraud and of the irregularities complained of. 

D. C, Colombo, 13,135. Fereray, Perera ... 113 

See Partition, 1. 

Gems. 

See Tattamaroo. 

Guarantee. 

See Stamp, 4. 

Handwriting. 

See Witness, 2. 

Heirs. 

See Party, 1, 2. 

Highway. 

Highway^^Prescription — Presumption of lost grant — Survey^ 
margin al notes on. 

The public highway cannot be prescribed for by a private 
person by virtue of any length of possession, and the court will not 
presume a lost grant, as no grant can divest the public of their right 
to a highway. 

D. C, Colombo, 128. The Queen y. Cowasjee Eduljee... 105 

Hindoo temple. 

Hindoo tempk^Disputed title — Onus prohandi. 

Where plaintiff prayed to be restored to the poaseaaioii of a 
temple as lawful incumbent, which right defendant alleged to be in 
himself, and plaintiff joined issue, 

Held, that the plaintiff should first call evidence. 

D. C, Jaffna, 6,123. JRamalinger v Cadiramer. ••• 52 



25 



Pagi. 



Husband and wife. 

See Evidence, 5. 
Res judicata. 
Thxeulvalame, 1. 

Huwanderam. 

Huwanderam^^Eights of Vidahn and Mayoraal. 

Where there is a Vidahn Aratchy as well as a Mayoraal in a 
village, the hawanderam perquisite divides in di£Eerent proportions 
between them. Where a villaj|;e has only a Mayoraal (the plaintiff) , 
he is not entitled to take the whole without shewing that he perform- 
ed the duties of both offices. 

D. C, Matura, 17,581. Dondricko v. Siman ... 44 

Illegal contract 

See Contract, 1. 
Champerty. 

Imprisonment unlawful. 

See Damages, 1* 

Inconsistent pleas. 

See Defamation, 1. 

Indictment 

1. — Indictment — Description of person — Ordinary name — " Oey** 
name. 

In laying the property of things stolen it is sufficient to give the 
ordinary name of the owner, without stating his ** gey" name, and 
the court will not narrow the English rule on this point. 

The Queen v. Waiike ... ... ••• 157 

2. — Indictment — Variance — Amendment — R, d 0. Qth Dec, 1845. 

In an indictment against a notary for fraudulently omitting to 
Beal and sign a deed of sale executed before him, the instrument was 
described as ^' notarial" before setting out its purport. The evidence 
showing that the deed was incomplete, the court over-ruled a motion 
in arrest of judgment, holding that though the rules of 6th December 
1845 admitted only such objections as are recognised in England, it 
did not declare all such objections tenable in Ceylon ; and the court 
would always on such technical objections see whether the accused 
bad been prejudiced by the matter objected to. 

No, 6, The (^ueen v. Harmanis de Boyta ••• •.. 155 



26 



Pa«k« 



8. — Indictment — Assault and robbery — Conviction of assault only. 

Held (Per Oliphant, C. J., and Stark, J., dissentiente Carr, J.), 
wbere a prisoner had been tried upon the usual indictment for 
robbery, which contained a Bubstantiye charge of assault, and con- 
Ticted of assault onlj, that it was competent to the jury so to 
convict him. 

The Queen v. Kappa Kando ... ... ... 179 

See Arrest of judgment. 

Inheritance. 

See Buddhist ecclesiastical law, 3. 

DOXATION, 8. 

Kandtan law, 2, S, 4, 5. 

Injunction. 

1, — Injunction-^^Practice in district court — Filing libel. 

The district court can only grant an injunction after libel duly 
filed. The Supreme Court set aside for irregularity an injunction 
issued by a district judge after he had himself received the libel out 
of due course in chambers. 

I>. C, Ratnapoora. 6,508^ Pattale v. Kanhanewe ... 44 

^.^^Injunction-^Necessity for commencing proceedings before issue 
f^InjuncUon against administrator selling immoveable property. 

A mere assertion in an affidavit that a party is entitled to land, 
without further proceedings, will not justify a court in issuing an 
injunction to prevent an administrator selling such land. In cases 
where irremediable damage is to be apprehended if the party were to 
adopt the regular course of proceedings, the court may issue an in- 
junction without such proceedings. 

D. C, Ratnapoora, 107. Re 6. Dingerehamy .... IIG 

S.-^lnjunction pendente lite to removi obstruction to road — In 
itatu quo. 

In an action to have an obstruction to a private carriage way 
removed, the right to the road being in issu^, the district court had 
granted an injunction against defendant fior the removal oi the 
obstruction pendente lite* 

Held, that injunctions are usually granted to preserve property, 
pending a trial, and to leave matters in their present state until the 
rights of parties are decided ;. and in the present case, if the injunc- 
tion were allowed to stand, and defendant eventually auoceeded,. he 
could not be placed in statu que; and that the injunction must there- 
fore be dissolved. 

D. C, Galle, 12,G71. Barton v. Percra ... ... 89 



27 



Plait 



In soUdum liability* 

See Costs, 2. 
Judgment^ 6. 

/nsoluency. 

1. — Lisolvency-^OrcUnance JVb. 6 of 1835, #ec^ 41— [Orrfmanc^ 
No. 7 of 1853.] 

The Crown, not being expressly mentioned in Ordinance No. 6 
of 1885, is not bound thereby, though it may avail itself of its pro- 
visions; and a debtor to the crown is not released by proceedings 
under that Ordinance. 

The 41st clause of the Ordinance entitles the debtor to discharge 
from the debt for which he has been confined ; and such debt being 
here one to the Crown, he cannot obtain that release, nor can he, in 
this suit, ask to be discharged from liability to other creditors not 
parties to the suit. 

D. C, Kandy, 21,663. Selby v. Fernando ... it 

2. — Insolvency — Amgnee liable for appraiser's expenses — Ordi- 
nance No. 6 of 1885 ^Ordinance No. 7 of 1853 J 

Under the [repealed] Ordinance No. 6 of 1835, the assignee in 
insolvency, and not the petitioning creditor, was liable for the ex- 
penses of appraising the insolvent s property. 

D. C, Colombo, 6, 1 1 9. Me Francis Hudson * . . 1 Od 

3. — Insolvency — -Order on assignee to pay money to appraisers"^ 
Separate action to recover such money. 

Where the district court ordered the assignees of an insolvent 
estate to pay to £he appraisers of the estate their expenses and, the 
assignees failing to pay, the appraisers sued them for the expenses : 

Held, that the action was maintainable, and plaintiffs were not 
restricted to any summary mode of procedure. 

D. C, Colombo, 8,161. Jumeauon v. Thompson *.. lOd 

Interest 

1 — Interesi^^Paient ambiguity as to rate^ 

Where a bond carried '^ two per cent" interest, and the district 
court decreed that rate per mensem, 

Held, that the Supreme Court could not presume from the patent 
ambiguity that either ''per annum'' or ''per mensem" was meant, and 
that plaintifE should recover the legal rate of interest. 

D. C, Manaar, 4,824. Mirondet. Markoe •>. 44 

2. — Interest equal to principal. 

Although, when interest is in arrear, only a sum equal to the 
principal can be recovered as interest, this rule does not obtain when 



2ii 



Tkct. 



the interest is not in arrear, in which latter ca^se the amount of 
interest already paid may exceed many times the principal, and the 
plaintiff be still entitled to recover a sum equal to principal, as 
interest. 

C. K., Jaffna, 275. Sedemhranader v. Sangerapulle ..• 19 

8. — Interest eonceeding principal — Usufructuary mortgage — Profits, 
A plaintiff suing on a usufructuary mortgage cannot recover a 

larger sum than the principal, whether as interest nominatim, or as 

profits of the mortgaged property not enjoyed. 

D. C, Chilaw and Putlam, 12,616. Seneworatne v. Don 

Bastian ••• ••• ... ... 154 

Intervention, 

1, — Intervention. 

A third party considering that his interest will be affected by a 
pending suit has a right to intervene in that suit. Such intervention 
may be lodged at any stage of the case— even after judgment, if an 
appeal lies — provided the proceedings are not deranged by it. 

D. C, Matura, 18,321. Siman y, Siman,.. ... 56 

2, — Intervention--^ Roman Dutch law — H, 4r 0. of 1st October 
1833, sect. 1, r. 32. 

A person wishing to intervene must obtain the leave of court 
after showing a probable interest, and cannot (by the R. D. Law; set 
up a different right from the plaintiffs and defendants, though the 
R. & O. allow greater laxity in favor of intervention. An interve- 
nient must take up the suit at the stage in which he finds it, and 
having by his intervention become a party, is bound by the judgment. 

D. C, Chilaw, 13,115. Felis v. Siman ... ... 64 

8. — Intervenient — Nonsuit. 

An intervenient, who intervenes to justify the title of the 
defendant, cannot be nonsuited. 

D. C, CJolombo, 8,563. Silva v. Perera ... ... 6 

See Stamp, 1. 

Joint and several liability. 

See Costs, 2. 
Judgment, 6. 

Judgment 

1. — Judgment by default^ setting aside -^District Court setting 
aside its own final judgment. 

Where defendant appeared with a proctor and showed cause 
against judgment by default being entered against him, 



29 

Beldy thai; he was thereby precluded from setting up the only 
reason for revoking the judgment, viz. his having been prevented, by 
accident or misfortune or by not having received notice of the pro- 
ceedings, from appearing in due time. 

D. C, Colombo, 85,668. Sultan Saibo v. Sinne PulU 5 

2.— Judgment by default-^R. jr 0., bth July 1842, r. 9— Motion 
for judgment by default. 

A rule nisi is not necessary for obtaining judgment by de&iult, 
which may be obtained on motion, of which ^' the court must be 
satisfied that the party in default has had proper notice." This notice 
does not require the assent of the court before it be served. 

D. C, Colombo, 2,084. Arkadie v. Schubert ... 72 

8. — Judgment by default — Title to land in iseue-^Evidence for 
plaintiff — Barring defendant. 

The B. & O. empower the district court to receive evidence for 
plaintifiE on his motion for judgment by default, and the Supreme 
Court has decided that such evidence should always be required 
when the title to land is in issue. 

A defendant in default is actually barred, and no rule is neces- 
sary to bar him, but rather for judi^ment by default. 

D. C., Jaffna, 6,229. Sidemberanader v. Sidemberanader 58 

4. — Judgment on admission- ^Confession of agent — Authority to 
bind principal. 

Observations on the authority of a general agent, managing 
property in this country, to receive process and to confess judgment 
against his principal. 

D. C, Colombo, 4,118. The Bank of Ceylon v. Arabin 102 

5. — Judgment, final — Power of a court to alter — Dovbls costs* 
The district court has no power to alter its final decree in the 

cause, nor can it, where it imposes a penalty for contempt, remit such 

penalty on a subsequent day. 

It is illegal to award double costs, aa a fine is the proper mode 

of pecuniary punishment, and the money is payable to the Queen 

and not to a private party at the discretion of the court, unless 

otherwise enacted by Ordinance. 

D. C, Kurunagala, 9,015. Kirri Manika v. Namherale ^t 

6. — Judgment, liability of defendants upon — Joint and several 
eontrttet. 

Where a plaintiff obtained judgment for a sum of money against 
two defendants as heirs of the deceased obligor^ 



so 



Piait. 



Held, that he could only recover under it according to the legal 
liabilities of the partiea. 

Although parties have bound themselyes jointly and severally 
for the whole debt, the creditor cannot in the first instance sue any 
one of them for the whole debt, but he must first diacuss each debtor 
for his proportionate share, and may recover the shares of those who 
are unable to pay &om the other debtors. 

C. R., Mallagam, 591. VyravipuUe v. Vdylher ... 116 

See Nbw trial. 
n0n-joinb£r. 

Petition of appeal, 3. 

PUACTICB, 11. 

Jurisdiction. 

See Court of Requests. 
Falsi imprisonment. 
Police Court. 
Recoqnizancis. 
Sent. 
Survey, 1, 2. 

Justice of the Peace. 

See Recognizances. 

Kandyan law. 

1. — Adoption — Kandyan law — Evidence, 

That defendant and the deceased addressed each other as ^'father** 
and ''son'' is not conclusive evidence of 'adoption. Though there 
are no prescribed forms of adoption imder iKandyan law, yet strict 
proof of public declaration of adoption and of intention to institute 
as heir is required. 

D. C, Colombo, 8,569. Wedda v. Balia ... 



••« 



2. — Deega marriage — Succession to father'e eeiate-^Kandyan lauf. 

A deega married daughter does not forfeit, in favor of brothers 
and asters of the half blood, her right to inherit from her father. 
Difference between Saffragam and IJdderalte customs on the point. 

D. C, Kandy, 1,338. Mooio Menikav. Tikm Meniha 1 

8.— itontfyafi law — Beena and deega marriageS'^Widow marry '^ 
ing out her damgkier in deega. 

A Kandyan widow may marry out her daughter in deega, upon 
which such daughter will forfeit her right to inherit her father's lands. 

D. C, Kandy, 19;931. Ukkoo Ramy v. J/ipu . . 166 



SI 

Paqi. 
4. — Kahdyan law — Inheritance, 

The only child of a Kandjan bj his first wife, although giren 
out in de^a, is entitled to a half of her father's lands, the other 
half devolying on the children of the second bed« 

D. C, BaduUa, 14,311. Menika t. Kiri Banda ... 54 

5. — Kandyan law — Inheritance — Per stirpes cr per capita. 
Application of tlie rule of per stirpes or per capita to inheritance 
under tibe Kandyan law considered. 

D. C, Matella, 8,574, and D. C, Kandy (north) 1,883 

(page 1) considered. 
D. a, Kandy, 20,898. Ukkua v. Tikiry ... ... 160 

See Defamation, 1, 2, 
Mohammedan law. 
Pbovisional judgment, 1. 
Res judicata. 

Lex oommissoria. 

See Appeal, 2. 

Maintenance. 

Maintenance — Ordinance No. 4 of 1841, sect. 8 — Beena marriage. 

Every man is liable under the 8rd clause of the Ordinance No. 4 
of 1841,^ who being able wholly or in part to maintain his family, 
leaves his wife or child, legitimate or otherwise, without maintenance 
or suppc»rt, whereby they become chargeable to others; and there is 
no exception in the case of a beena marriage when they are thrown 
upon others for support. 

P. €., Nuwera Eliya, 3,827. Rang Manika v. Punchi 

Banda ... ... ••• .•• 61 

See Champertt. 

Majority. 

Majority — Mohammedan and Roman Dutch law. 
^ According to Mohammedan law, majority is attained after the 
expiration, or at the completion, of the 16th year; and by the Dutch 
law the parental power ceases by. tacit or direct emancipation, when 
the ohild with the knowledge of the parent takes up residence else- 
where and openly exercises any trade or calling. 

D. C, Galle, 11,23a. ... ... ... 183 

Malicious injury. 

1. — Malicious injury — Ordinance JVo. 6 of 1846, sect. 17 — 
Claim of right. 

Where defendants, chaged with destroying a fence placed across 
a pathy justified their act by claiming a right of way, 



M 

Page. 

ffeldf that they could not be convicted under the Mallcioua 
Injuries Ordinance^ 1846, without evidence taken on their plea. 

P. C, Jaffna, 7,322. Grafiaen v. Gander ... 102 

2. — Malicious injury — Ordinance No, 6 of 1846, sect 3— /S^n- 
tence — Discretion of court. 

Held per Curiam (dubitanie Starke, J.) that the sentence on 
prisoners convicted under clause 3 of the Malicious Injuries Ordi- 
nance, 1846 must include corporal punishment with transportation 
or imprisonment. 

Per Starke, J. : Where an ordinance declares an offender 
liable to two or more punishments, such liability is in the nature of 
a maximum punishment, and it is in the discretion of the court to 
award one of the punishments only. 

The Queen v. Abe ... ... ... 50 

Martial law. 

See Proclamation, 1. 

Master and pupil. 

Master and pupil — Reasonable correction* 

Where a police court had convicted a schoolmaster of assault 
and battery on a pupil, but found that the " conduct of the complai- 
nant, on his own showing, was very disorderly on the occasion in 
question and quite subversive of discipline which must be maintained 
in well regulated schools, and that it would have been dereliction of 
duty on the part of defendant had he allowed the complainant to 
pass with impunity :'* 

RelA (setting aside the conviction) that a schoolmaster was under 
the circumstances justified in using such reasonable correction as was 
necessary for the maintenance of due discipline. 

P. C, Colombo, 7,672. Vanderstraaten v. Lister ••« 99 

Master and servant 

Master and servant — Ordinance No, 5 o/ 1 84 1 , sect, 7 [ Ordinance 
No, II of 1865, sect. 11'] — Peon of district court — ^^ Menial or 
domestic servant.'^ 

A peon on the establishment of the district court is not punish- 
able, under sect. 7, Ordinance No. 5 of 1841, for absenting himself 
from duty without permission, not being a ^* menial or domestic servant," 

P. C; Batnapura, 1;376. Megnort v» Allis Pulls ••• 112 



63 

Page. 

Maxims* 

Cerium est quod cerium reddi potest. 
See C0ST8, 4. 

Ex turpi causa nan oritur actio. 
See Contract, 1, 

Interest reipublicce iii finis sit litium* 
See Nonsuit. 

Mayoraal. 

See UUWANDERAM. 

Minor. 

Minor of 7 or 8 years old — Mischievous discretion — Felony. 

Within the age of 7 years no infant can be found guilty o£ 
felony, and between 7 and 14 he is presumed to be innocent in the 
absence of strong evidence of mischievous discretion. The first 
prisoner (a boy of 7 or 8 years old) having been concerned with the 
two other prisoners, the Supreme Court set aside the conviction and 
Bentence on him. 

D. C, Tangalle, 130. The Queen v. Dowan ... 59j 

See Costs, 1. 
Will, 1. 

Mohammedan law. 

Mohammedan law — Kandyan provinces. 

The Moors resident in the Kandyan provinces are governed by 
the Mohanmiedan law. 

D. C, Kandy; 23,519. Saiboo Tamhy v. Ahmet ... 163 

See Majority. 

Moorish parties^ 

See Administration, 1. 

Examination of parties, 2. 
Mohammedan law. 

Mortgage. 

1. — Mortgagey iistifrtictuary — Possession of a divided half by 
each of two mortgagees — Payment, 

Where two mortgagees each leut an equal sum to two mortga^ 



34 

pAaE, 
gorsy taking as security a piece of land to possess as tlie mortgagees 
wished; and the mortgagees possessed each a divided half ; and, on 
one of the mortgagees receiving payment of his advance, ke put the 
mortgagors in possession of the specific half possessed by him, but 
the remaining mortgagee entered upon the half wo givoi up, claiming 
right so to do, 

Held, that he had no right to occupy more than the half he 
elected to possess. 

D. C. Chikw and Putlam, 7,521. fialu Appu v. Saibo 15 

^.'-^Mortgage bond — Possession in lieu of interest — PrescHption, 
PlaintifiE as mortgagee had possessed in lieu of interest (under 
Lis bond) a share of a field, mortgaged as security ; 

Heldj that the bond was not prescribed [under Ordinance No« 8 

of 1834:.J 

C. R*, Galle, 526. Aheyewardme t. Madoma ... 25 

Sea Appeal, 2. 
Pawn. 

Mortmain laws. 

Mortmain laws — Proclamation of l^th September 1819 — Ordi^ 
Stance No. 2 of 1840 [disallowed,'] 

The gift of propel*ty ad pios usus is uot prohibited in the 
Maritime Provinces, the Statutes of Mortmain not extending to the 
eolonies. 

Where such gift is by deed to a particular church, the priest 
managing such church and its property is entitled to sue on such deed. 

D. C, Batticaloa, 9,528. Godinho v. Kcning ... 152 

Murder. 

Murder^ Resistance to arrest— ^Pnvate person arresting — Ordi- 
nance No. 15 of 1843, sect. 11 [Ordinance No. 11 of 1868, sect. 147.] 

Power of private persons to arrest on suspicion of crimes dis- 
cussed. 

The Queen y. Ama Lehbe •.« ... ... 157 

New trial. 

New trial by consent — Contradictory judgments in a suit by 
ene court. 

Where plaintiff got judgment, and x>ending appeal the evidence 
taken and the judgment were abstracted from the record, and plaintiff 
cooseHtcd to- a new trial in which he was non^suitcd. 



35 



Page. 



Held, that snch proceedingg were tantamonnt to a new trial bj 
consent of both parties, and that a court of appeal would not dis- 
turb the fieocmd judgment on the ground of there having been a 
previous judgment of the same court in the same cause. 

D. C, Kandy, 11,266. Vkhi Ettena v. Omar Lebhe 12 

Next frknd. 

See Costs, 1. 

Non-Joinder. 

Non-joinder of partieM—'Amendment — Judgment for shares of 
land proved. 

If at the trial it appears that proper parties are omitted, it is 
discretionary with the court either to nonsuit or give leave to amend, 
but it is the practice in this country to give the plaintiff judgment 
for such portion only as he may prove himself entitled to^ 

D. 0«, Galle, 11,303. Juanis v. Simm ..• ..• 104 

Nonsuit 

Nonsuit on account of plaintijfs absence — Subsequent action for 
eame cause — Maxim, Interest reipublicse ut finis sit litium. 

The facts that the plaintiff has twice already brought an 
identical action, and been twice absent on the day of trial, and his 
0uit accordingly twice dismissed, do not afford sufficient ground for 
a third 'dismissal when plaintiff is ready and willing to go to trial. 

The maxim Interest reipublicce ut finis sit litium commented 
upon. 

C. S«, Bentotte, 1,671. Mendis v. Himmappooa «.. 88 

See ExAaoERATiON of claim. 
Intervention, 3. 
Postponement, 2. 

Offices, purchasing of. 

See Contract, L 

Onus probandL 

See CaowN lan!>, 2. 
Hindoo temple. 
Pabdt, 2. 
Practice, 8. 



36 

Ordinances. 



Paqe. 



No. 9 of 1822, [repealed.] 
See Evidence, 5. 

No. 8 of 1834, [repealed.] 
See Mortgage, 2. 
Possession, 1, 
Prescription, 1. 

No. 8 of 1834, sects. 5, 6, [repealed.] 
See Costs, 2. 

Principal and Surety, 2. 



No. 14 of 1840, sect 20. 
See Paddy, 1. 

No. 4 of 1841, sect. 8. 

See Maintenance. 

Vagrant. 

No. 5 of 1841, sect. 7, [repealed ] 
See Master and Servant. 

No. 1 of 1842. 
See Fiscal, 1, 



No. 8 of 1834, sects. 6, 7, [repealed.] No. 10 of 1848, sect. 5, [repealed.] 



See Prescription, 4. 

No, 5 of 1835, [repealed.] 
See Succession. 

No. 6 of 1835, [repealed.] 
See Insolvency, 2. 

No. 6 of 1835, sect. 41, [repealed.] 
See Insolvency, 1. 

• 

No. 5 of 1837, [repealed.] 
See Plaint. 

No. 2 of 1840, [disallowed.] 
See Mortmain Laws. 

No. 7. of 1840, sect. 21. 

See Principal and Agent, 3. 

No. 12 of 1840. 

See Crown Land^ 1. 

No. 12 of 1840, sect. 1. 
See Crown Land, 2. 

No. 12 of 1840, sect. 6. 
See Crown Land, 3. 



See Court of Requests. 

No. 11 of 1843, sect. 12, [repealed.] 
See Vexatious Prosecution. 

No. 11 of 1843, sect. 14, [repealed.) 
See Recognizance. 

No. 12 of 1843, [repealed.] 
See Contempt of Court, 8. 

No. 12 of 1843, sect. 14, [repealed.^ 
See Eicamination of Parties, 8, 4. 

No. 14 of 1843. 

See Queen's Advocate. 

No. 15 of 1848, [repealed.] 
See Eecognizance. 

No. 15 of 1843, sect, 11, [repealed.^ 
See Murder. « 

No. 15 of 1843, sect. 18, [repealed,] 
See False Accusation. 

No. 15 of 1843, sect. 23, [repealed.] 
See Evidence, 6. 



No. 14 of 1840, sect. 14. 
See Paddy, 2. 



No. 10 of 1844, sects. 32^ 37. 
See Arrack; 3« 



Z7 

Ordinances. 



Page. 



No. 10 of 1844, sect. 40. 
See Arrack, 2. 



No. 10 of 1844, sects. 34, 59, 61. 
See Arrack^ 1. 

No. 11 of 1844, sect 7, [repealed.] 
See Eecogniza&ce. 

No. 17 of 1844, sect. 25, [repealed.] 
See Pawm 

No. 21 of 1844. 
See £2jectment, 1. 

No. 21 of 1844, sects. 7, 1 9, [repealed.] 
See Paitition, 1, 2, 8. 

No. 9 of 1845, sect. 11, [repealed.] 
See Tolls, 2. 



No. 3 of 1846, sect. 7. 
See Evidence, 3. 

Examination of parties, 1. 

No. 5 of 1846, sect. 6^;[repealed.j 
See Police Court. 

No. 6 of 1846, sect. 8. 
See Malicious Injury, 2. 

No. 6 of 1846, sect. 17. 
See Malicious Injury, 1. 

No. 3 of 1848, sect. 6, [repealed.] 
See Carrier. 

No. 12 of 1848, sect. 5. 
See Proctor, 1. 

No. 19 of 1852, [repealed.] 
See Stamp, 2. 



Paddy. 

l.—Paddtf--Ordifuince No. 14 o/1840, teet 20 — Limitation^ 
The 20th clause of Ordinance No. 14 of 1840 applies only to 
prosecutions under the Ordinance and not to a civil action. 
C. B., Batticaloey 5,223. Armogam y. Aitiar 

2. — Paddy — Ordinance No. 14 •/ 1840, €ect. 14 — Notice of 
aMng — Burden of proving aheence of. 

Defendant was charged with cutting and thrashing a chena 
without notice to the renter, in breach of sect. 14, Ordinance No. 14 
of 1840. After evidence for the prosecution, the court below* 
dismissed the case, holding it tiot incumbent on defendant to prove 
Botice, imtil the complainant had given ^* something like proof of 
cutting without notice." 

Heldj that all the complainant had to prove under the plea of 
not guilty was the cutting and thrashing by defendant, and that it 
was for the defendant to prove compliance with the ordinance by 
giving notice, the general rule of evidence being, that the onne lies 
on the person who has to support his case by proof of a fact which 
lies more peculiarly within his own knowledge, or of which he is 
supposed to be cognizant. 

P. C, Satnapoora; 816. BaUhamy v. Sinho Appu 



60 



7& 



38 



Page. 



Paraueni tenant. 

See Service tenures. 

Parties. 

See Abatement. 
Executor, 3, 
non-joindeb. 
Partition, 1. 
Practice, 1. 

Partition. 

1. — Partition suit — Ordinance No. 21 cf 1844 — Omission in 
application of names oj parties entitled^^Fraud. 

The mere omifision of the name cf one party entitled to land 
which is the subject of an application for partition will not render 
the proceedings invalid or justify the cancellation of an order of sale 
made therein ; but if it be shown that the party applying had maid 
fide suppressed the name of a share-holder well known to him in 
order to deceive the court; or that the party applying is himself no 
owner, this would justify such cancellation. The application being 
fraudulent; the whole proceeding would be void and ncyt merely 
voidable. 

D. C, Galle, 75. Silva v. Silva ... ... 145 

2, — Partition sutt^^ Disputed title — Ordinance No. 21 «/ 1844, 
sects. 7, 19 {^Ordinance No. 10 of 1863] — Separate action to establish 
title — Partition off of one co-otoner^s share. 

Under the Ordinance No. 21 of 1844, a party applying for parti- 
tion was not entitled to have his own share partitioned off, without 
partitioning the whole land among all the parties entitled. 

The 10th, 11th; and 12th sections making no provision for the 
case of disputed ownership and not contemplating that event, the 
parties must first settle their respective rights by separate action, 
the proceedings in the partition suit standing owex in the mean 
time. 

D. C, Galle, 134. Don Janis r. Jando •»• ... 140 

3. — Partition suit — Ascertainment cf skares-^Summary proceed- 
ings — Ordinance No. 21 o/ 1844 — Crotvn not hound hy Ordinance. 

The proceedings for the partition of lands under the Ordinance 
No. 21 of 18^4 are intended to be summary, and it is irregular to 
require the parties to proceed as in ordinary civil actionfi. 

The sluires of the respective parties must be ascertained by the 
court and not left to the commissioner, who has only to allot sharea 
iu proportion to the previously ascertained righto o£ tbt parties* 



39 



Page. 



Hie Queen nuy avail heraeU of the pnovkions o£ an Act of 
Parliament or an Ordinance^ thongii she is not bound by such as do 
not expresf^y mention her. 

Ofasermtions on the oonatmclion of the proTisions relating to 
the partition and ode of lands. 

D. O, Galley 152. BuUer t. Koelman ... ... 141 

Partners. 

See PsnKaPAL akd aqekt, 2. 

Party. 

1. — Party to shUj death of-^Mahing heirs defendanU — Practice 
'^^EevivoTj hill of. 

The practice of the Supreme Court has been, upon the death of 
a party to a suit, to allow his heir or legal representative to be substi- 
tuted in his place by an order of court, upon application made to it 
for that purpose either by motion or by petition, without any bill 
of reyivor being filed. 

D. C, CJolombo, 783. Philip v. Bastion ... ... 81 

2,-^Party to suitj death of — Reviving suit against legal represen- 
tative — Executrix de son tort. 

It is not necessary to revive a suit against the heir or legal 
representative of a deceased party, nor that a bill of revivor, or 
petition setting forth ths facts, should be filed ; but the application 
may be by motion. There must, however, be evidence, apart from 
the mere statement of the proctor moving, that the party is dead, 
and that the person cited is the widow and has done acts which (in 
the court's opinion) make her an executrix de son tort. 

D. C, Kaltura, 12,925. Rodngo v. Dombalahamif ... 83 

Patent ambiguity. 

See iMmKBar, 1. 

Pauper. 

1. — Pauper^ appeal hy — Practice. 

A petition of uppeal informd pauperis cannot be received unless 
the appellant has previously obtained leave from the district court 
on petition so to appeal, which should be reported on (as regards 
good cause of appeal) by some other proctor than appeared for 
appellant at trial. 

D« C*, Celfoxubo; 14;8S8, Tims v. Pamel ... ... 88 



40 



PAaB, 



2.*-^ Appeal by pauper — Report of proctor other than pauper*8--^ 
Practice, 

The Supreme Court will not receive the appeal of a pauper 
unless a proctor, other than the pauper's proctor, have certified to 
his having good ground of appeal. 

D. C, Tangalle, 1,508* Nankamy v. Dinekehamy ... 118 

3. — Pauper suit — Proctor reporting, afterwards retained for 
plain tiff-^Practice. 

A proctor selected to report on a pauper's cause of action should 
always be independent of the suit, and where he is afterwards retain- 
ed to conduct the pauper's suit, the court should on the motion pf 
the opposite partjr appoint anpther proctor to report on the said 
cause of action, 

D. Cm Trincomalee, 7,725. Rawooter v. Nethersahib ... 53 

4,— /'orwad pauptris, application to sue iry-^Refsrence to proctor 
in rotation — Proctor not engaged in the suit — E* ^ 0, 1833, 
sect, i, r, 43. 

Where an application to sue in formd pauperis is referred to a 
proctor under the 42rd rule of sect. 1 of the General Rules and 
Orders of 1st October 1833, a proctor should be selected who is not 
engaged in the case, nor interested in the success of either party. 

D. C, Negombo, 10,256, Peris v. Fernando ..• 20 

See Proctob, 7. 

Pawn. 

Pawn, or pledge — Security for purchase money-^Ordinance No. 
17 0/1844, sect. 25 [^Ordinance No. 16 qf 1865, sec. 66, repealed by 
Ordinance No. 8 o/1871, sec. 8.] 

Plaintiff bought goods of defendant, and for security for the 
payment of the purchase money deposited certain jewels and gold. 
5?laintiff having paid the money now sought to recover the jewels. 
It appearing from plaintiff's examination as party that he had not 
informed the police of the transaction in terms of sect. 25 of Ordi- 
nance No. 17 of 1844, the court below refused to hear evidence and 
nonsuited plaintiff. 

Held, that the transaction was not a " pawn" within the mean- 
ing of the section, and plaintiff was not debarred from recovering. 

0. R., Galle, 2,194. Sammin v. Meera Cany ... 150 

Petition of appeal. 

1. — Petition of appeal — Qualified signature of proctor. 
Where a proctor appended to his signature on the appeal petition 
the words " drawn by me on the statement of the appd^ant," 



11 

Faoi. 
Thd Supremd Court gent the cue back for a new petition at the 
proctor's own costy declaring that if a proctor couki not conacien- 
tionalj sign the petition, he should advise his client to have his 
petition tidcen down by the secretary. 

D. C.J Ratnapoora, 5;811» Appu Naide v. A\idoo LMe 85 

i.'^Petition of appeal — Otu proctor for two advene parties. 

It is the duty of every proctor engaged to draw a petition of 
appeal to peruse the proceedings carefully and not contradict them 
in his petition. 

Where plaintifPs and intervenient's claims are adverse, it is dis- 
reputable that the plaintiffs proctor should draw the intervenient's 
petition of appeaL 

D. C, Colombo^ 4,408. Punchifhami v. Kattady Bale, . 103 

8. — Time for filing petition oj appeal-^Date of delivering judg* 
ment — English reckoning. 

The judgment of a district court must bear date the day of its 
delivery, and the petition of appeal must be lodged within twenty . 
days of it^ excluding the days of delivering the judgment and of 
filmg the petition : the rules adopting the English method of 
reckoning. 

D. 0.; Galle, 14;882. Diae v. Dias ... ... 152 

See Stakp, 2, 8. 

Plaint 

Flaint'^tatement of section of Ordinance contravened — Smug- 
gling—Ordinance No. 5 of 18S7 (Ordinance No. 18 0/1852.] 

Where a prosecution is founded on a clause of an Ordinance, 
the charge should follow all the material words of the clause, which 
should aLso be distinctly specified. 

P. a, Galle, 14,948. Gun v. Sinho Baha ... 122 

Pleading. 

See Defamatiok, 1. 
Ejectment, 1» 2. 
evidekce, 8. 

FlUUD, 1. 

Partition, !• 
Plaint. 



41 

Paok. 

Polioe Court. 

Police Court, jurisdiciion to abate fiutsance-^Ordtnance Ifo, 5 0/ 
1846, sect 6 lOrdinance No. 11 of 1868, sect. 98.] 

The police court has no jurisdiction to order the removal of the 
branches of a neighbour's tree ^hicb overhang the icomplainant's 
house. The 6th section of Oi*dinance No. 5 of 1846 applies only to 
common or public nuisances, or when tho offence is made punishable 
criminally. 

P. C, Galle, 13,946. Oedoema Lebbe r, Tixmbjf 8axbo$... J2l 

See False imprisonmekt. 

Possession. 

1. — Possession^ adverse preicriptive-^Ordinance Ifo. 8 o/18S4, 
Though there are English decisions to the effect that the posses- 
sion of a joint tenant, co-parcener, or tenant in common is not ad- 
verse to his co^holders, yet Ordinance No. 8. of 1884 has defined what 
it considers adverse possession, under which fall the above joint 
interests. 

# D. C, Ck>lombo, 6,587. Daniel Appu r. Sultan Marikar 9 

Soe MOBTGAGE, 1, 2. 

Possessory action* 

1. — Possessory action. 

Observation on the nature of the Dutch law remedy of a 
possessory action. 

D. C, Manaar, 4,687. Sleyma Lebbe v. Lebie Tamby... lOS 

2. — Trespass to land — Possessory action — Title, 

Where the libel alleged £60 damages accrued to plaintiff from 
defendant's ouster of him, and prayed not for restoration to posses- 
sion, but for such other relief as to the court should seem meet, 

Held that this not a mere possessory action, but an action of 
trespass, to which the defendant may pl^ad his tiUe. 

Observations on the nature of possessory actions, and on the law 
applicable thereto. 

D. C, Ratnapoora, 6,504. Eiry Mentha v. Kiry Meniha 62 

Postponement 

l, -^Postponement — Proctor, Ulnees of. 

Illness of a party's proctor is in the district court of Colombo a 
good ground for postponement. Where the district j^dge refused 
to postpone, on the groimd that ** there were proctors present on 



Pagk. 
both sidefi," hvtt the 2nd defenchnt's proctor swore he was not pre- 
pared to conduct Ist defendant'ff ease (the most important) ; 
The Sapreme Court sent the case back for a new trial. 

D. C, Batnapoora, 6,241. Appu Homy v. Mtidelehamy 86 

5t,'-^Po8iponement'^-'Ab9ence of material untneBs-^Striking oJfcoBB 
•^Nonsuit, 

Where a postponement is applied for on affidavit of the absence 
of a material witness, it should be allowed, unless the court see 
reason to call for a fuller affidavit. If a plaintiff, when required by 
the court to proceed, refuses to do so^ he may be rightly nonsuited. 

D. C, ColombOi 8,282. Aserappa v. Rodrigue ... I OS 

t.'^Ahsence of party at tried — Postponement — Illness of proctor. 

A party employing a proctor need not atfend at the trial. If 
the proctor's absence be owing to illness (to the knowledge of the 
oourtj it is good ground for postponement on paying costs of the day. 

D. C, Batnapoora^ 8j582. Cornells Soyza v. Jeronis Silva 1 6 

See AmAL, I. 
Evidence, 6. 
Paoctos, 2; 
Stamp, 5, 
Witness, 1« 

Pmotioe. 

1. — Practice'^Mlyoinder in Court of Requests of plaintiff having 
no interest. 

Even in a court of jrequests a defendant may take and prove the 
plea that persons have beeh joined as* plaintiffs who have no interest 
in the subject of suit.. 

0. B., OolowbOf 6,988. Thomson v. Lambe Ratnals d Co. 147 

2.'-^Praetice^»Appearanee of defendant in suit before summons 
served. 

A defendant is always entitled to appear to the action before 
receipt of summons, and to geit rid of the suit as soon as possible. 

D. C, Colombo, 12,977. Brair v. Prins... ... 112 

S.'^Practiee^^Replioationj necessity for^^Objection to its absence 
taJten in appeal. 

Wh^ve appellant's ootmsd took the preliminary objection that 
parties had gone to trial' without a replication, 

JB^ thtfi tfh^objectibii caiDate too laite-, and plaintiff was allow* 



u 

ed to filfi replication nunc pro tunc to thd amended answer, and, the 
4e^ence not being made out by the evidence led, judgment was 
iSbt^red for plaintiff as prayed. 

D. C, Colombo, 10,442, Fernando v. Fernando ... 81 

4. — Practice — Time to file answer, extension of — Consent of 
plaintif-^E. ^ 0., hih Jvly 1842, rule 4. 

lender the 4th rule of the B. & O. of 5th July 1842 the consent 
of the opposite party is not necessary before a party can obtain 
further time to plead. In practice one or two extensions should be 
granted on cause shown, or on affidavit of merits. If further ex- 
tensions are applied for, the court may order notice to the opposite 
party. 

D. 0., Jaffna, 1,227. Valayudery. Cadergatner ... 89 

h.'-^Practice — Rule nisi-^B, 4r 0. of 1883, sect, i, r. ZZ'-^MaJdng 
f%ile absolute. 

If rule 83 of sect, i of the B. & O. of 1888 is acted upon, a 
l>i;le should in no case he made absolute on the returnable day, but 
the party respondent should have the additional four days' time 
^vhether he appears and moves for it or not, and rule should be 
made absolute on or after the fourth day. 

D. C, Kandy, 20,757. Supermani&m y, Telenis Appu..* 110 

6. — Practice — Bale nisir^Time to show canse^-^Motion to make 
absolute. 

Where a party has to show cause against a rule nisi on a parti- 
cular day, he should have the whole day for the purpose, so that the 
rule cannot be made absolute till the next day, and then only on 
^notion to make it absolute. 

p. 0., Kandy, 20,757. Supermanien v. Theodoris Appu 107 

7, — Practice — B. d 0. 17th June 1844, r. 7, and 6th December 
1845 — Withdrawing case from trial roll — Cause shown. 

On the day of trial, plaintiff (who had set the cause down for 
hearing, but not given notice of trial) moved to withdraw it from 
the trial roll, but showed no cause, as required by £. &, O. of 6th 
Pecember 1845. 

Beldy that he had been lightly nonsuited, under B. & O. 17th 
June 1844, r. 7. 

D. C, Galle, 13,927. Noncho Hamy y. Aberan ... 15ft 

• 

8. — Practice — Closing case-^OnvtB proband!. 
The court should call upon plaintiff to state that he has closed 
his Cise, and should make a minute of the statement. 

Wherq detendams claimed the whole ol a land through their 



45 



Page. 



father who inherited from Migue!, and alleged that their' father^a 
'' sisters (to whom plaintiffs are admitted heirs) had their portions 
from other lands, and so we haye always possessed," 

Held, that the enus was on defendants to prove this arrange- 
ment and their f ather^s adyerro possession. 

D. C, Colomho, 2,098. Silva t. AIwim ... ... M 

9. — Practice — Interlocuiarff judgment — Plainttf waiving defend- 
ants who have pleaded — Right of Court to demand further evidence-^- 
ILdO. 17th June 1844, r. 4. 

Plaintiff sued seven defendants in ejectment and obtained 
interlocntorj judgment bj default against all bat the 2nd and 7th 
defendants, who pleaded. At the trial, after examination oQparties, 
the plaintiff moved for final judgment against the defendants in de> 
fault, waiving the 2nd and 7th. The court absolved the 2nd and 
7th defendants from the instance, and called for evidence as against 
the others. 

Held, that the court below had no right to sever plaintiff's 
motion, which should have been dealt with as a whole. 

Held also, that plaintiff was not entitled to have his motion 
allowed, it being an evasion of rule 4 of B. & O, 17 th June 1814, 
and calculated to deprive the defendants in default of their right to 
have final judgment given against them only after a due investiga- 
tion into the merits at a trial of the case. 

D. C, Colombo, 13,407, Aaeerappa y, Perera ... 176 

10. — Practice — Judgment, revival of — Sequestration, motion to 
dissolve — Legitima persona standi in judicio. 

A judgment that is superannuated must be revived whether or 
not execution has been taken out under it in the interval. 

A person [claiming under^ deceased defendant whose property 
is under sequestration] cannot move for the dissolution of the 
sequestration without having himself substituted in the room of the 
late defendant, as he has otherwise no legitima persona standi in 
judicio, 

D. C, Kandy 17,313 ... ... ... 138 

11. — Practice-Superannuated judgment — Issus of execuHon-^ 
Ssquestrationf continuance of — Superannuation of writ 

Defendant, as holder of a money judgment, issued his writ and 
fldzed certain land of his judgment debtor's in July 1844. The 
same land was in December 1844 seized by plaintiff on a mortgage 
judgment. The land was in April 1845 privately conveyed to 

Jlaintiff. In 1848 defendant sought to sell the land in execution of 
is judgment, when it wm claimed by plaintiff under his convey* 



I 



46 



Paqe. 



ance and the sale stayed. Plaintiff brought the present action to 
have the seiztire dissolved. 

There was a levy made on defendant's writ on 4th October 1845, 
after which it was extended and reissued ; on 24th March 1846 the 
fiscal reported opposition to a proposed sale in execution of the writ. 
On 21st November 1846 there was a further levy, and the writ was 
reissued ^* for service/' and again reissued on 4th February 1847. 
The present opposition was reported on 28th October 1848. 

Held, that upon a casus omissus arising in the rules of proce- 
dure recourse must be had to the Roman Dutch law to which they } 
were assimilated. 

The rules containing no provision in this behalf, the Boman 
Dutch law rule that letters of execution prescribe if not executed * 
within a year of their issue must be applied. 

Held, thai in the above state of the facts defendant's writ had 
not been prescribed; that his seizure still remained on the land; that 
he was entitled to sell the land in execution of his writ ; and the 
court should proceed to determine claims of preference and concur* 
rence to the proceeds realized. 

D. C, Batticaloa, 10,936. Slema Lebhe v. Poker ... 169 

See Administration, 7, 
Contempt op Coubt, 8. 
Nonsuit. 
Party, 1, 2. 
Pauper, 
Peoctor, 
Secubitt in appeal. 

Preference and canottrrenoe. 

See Execution, 2. 

Prescription. 

1. — Prescription — Ordinance No, 8 oflSSi^-^-Adverseposseesion, 
Plaintiff mortgaged the house in question to G. in 1826 (M, his . 
father-in-law being his surety) and left Colombo in 1880. In 1831 
M. paid the mortgage debt and took possession of the house and title 
deeds, and in May 1834 after edictile citation obtained certificate of 
quiet possession, he stating that he had then been in the exclusive 
and uninterrupted possession of the house, as his purchased property, 
for about 6 years. M. died in 1839 appointing as his executrix bis 
wife Mrs. M., of whose will defendant is the executor. 

When the house was seized in 1839 by fiscal under writ against 
plaintiff, Mr& M.^imed it as deceased M.'8' property by ** cert^eate 
of Provincial Court ^ Colombo and long pofiM8tt<»i." But whea 



47 



Page. 



she applied in 1840 for injunction to stay the sale she swore it 
belonged to M. ''as the defendant verilj believeth by ptirchase.** 

The plaintiff returned to Colombo in 1850 the date of the pre- 
sent action. He swore that un leaving Colombo he had left his wife 
and children in M.'s charge, who (by a rerbal arrangement) was 
to redeem the mortgage, receive rents, and pay balances to plaintiff's 
wife, that he was on bad terms with M. when he left. R. was the 
only witness to the verbal arrangement, and he was also a son-in-law 
of M. and surety in solidum with M. on the mortgage to G. ; and his 
evidence was otherwise open to suspicion* 

Held (by Oliphakt, C. J., and Stark, J.) affirming the decree 
of the district courts that defendant had made out a title by 
prescription ; 

Dissentiente Cars, J., who thought there was a total want of 
bona fides on M.'s part^ and acts of M. and his wife had been disclosed 
from which the '' acknowledgment of a right existing in another 
person might fairly and naturally be inferred," which by the Ordi- 
nance preduded prescription. 

D. C.^ Colombo, 12,508. Koster y. Drieberg ... ZS 

2. — Prescription — DtsahUity^^BegMn against predecessors during 
heirs* disability. 

Prescription once begun runs notwithstanding subsequent disa- 
bility, so that on death of a person, in whose life it began to run, 
the heir must enter within the residue of the term although he 
laboured under disability at his ancestor's death. 

D. C, Kandy, 28,466. Muttu v, Menika... ... 58 

8,— Prescnpiiofi— Z?t**wr5ance of possession — Unsuccessful action. 
Where the possession under which a party claims has been in- 
effectively contested by an unsuccessful action, prescription is 
interrupted* The mere commencement of an action is sufficient for 
this purpose. 

D. C, Eurunegala, 12,911. Medanhara Unanse v. 

Hahgomua Unanse ••• ... ... «>4 

A.'^Prescription-'^Acknoivledgment or admission^^ Ordinance No. 
8 of 1834, sects. 6 and 7 lOrdinance No. 22 of 1871, sect. 9.] 

In an action against an administratrix for goods sold and 
delivered more than three years before to her intestate, she demur- 
red on the ground that the action was prescribed, and plaintiff only 
proved a part payment by the intestate thirteen months after the 
debt accrued. 

Heldj that the action was prescribed. 

D, C., Jaffna, 2,672, Toussaint v. Vander Gucht ... 189 



iS 



Page. 



b.'-^Prescription^Former iuit — Interruption, 
A former suit having been filed in time is of no avail to the 
plainti£E in the present suit, which is a fresh action, and not a 
revival or continuance of the old one, and the defendant also 
having made no admission in the former suit o.f plaintiff's rights 
the present plea of prescription was upheld. 

D. C, Kalutava, 18,080. Marikar LeUe r. SUma LM$ 63 

See Costs, 2, 4. 
Ejectment, 1. 
Highway. 
Mortgage, 2. 
Paddt, 1. 
p9ikcipal and surety, 2. 

Principal and Agent 

l.'^Agenfs authority to sue — ^Lis pendens. 

In an action by C. (as agent and attorney of A. who traded in 
Ceylon as " P. & Co.") against defendant to recover the value of 
two bills sold by that firm to defendant, defendant pleaded in abate- 
ment pendency of an action for the same claim by Lambe as factor 
of P. & Co. The district court held that Lambe was personally 
liable on contracts entered into in the course of his business, his 
principal being undisclosed, and that Lambe could also sued upon 
such c )ntracts ; and that therefore the plea in abatement was good 
and defendant must be absolved. 

/n ap;)ea2 by plaintiff on the grounds (1) that the court had 
rejected evidence to show the true position of Lambe towards P. & 
Co., and (2) that a broker could not sue in his own name. 

Held, that plaintiff should have intervened in the former suit, 
when the relative rights of parties might have been settled without 
harassing defendant with a second action. 

Held also, that Lambe could not be considered as a factor or as 
having authority to sue in his own name. 

Ordered, that the two actions be consolidated, and plaintiff 
should pay costs of the former action. 

D. C, Colombo, 88,134. ColUer v. Teagappa Chetty ••• 27 

2.^^Agent — Suing in own name — Partners not joined* 

The libel was entitled Suppramanian Ckeity, Ageni of Na. 
Satappa Chetty v. Sophia. 

Held, that plaintiff here sued in his own name, and that the ' 
words above was matter of des^iption, and surplusage, and that 
plaintiff could sue in his own name, though he had partners. 

D. C, Colombo, 9,145. Suppramanian v. Sophia ... tS 



49 

Paoi. 

3. — Principal and agent — Ordinance No. 7 of 1840, secL 21-— 
" Lawfully authorized'^ — Writing — Reference to instruments not at- 
tached by tape and seal, but alluded to. 

Where a party executes an instrument bj his agent '' lawfully 
authorized," the authority to such agent need not be in writing 
tinder sect. 21 of the Ordinance of Frauds and Perjuries. 

The court is very averse from making reference in this country 
to any document not virtually incorporated with a notarial deed by 
tape and seal of the notary, although such reference may be allowed 
by the English law. 

D. C, Kandy, 24,146. Grey 4r Co. v. Arabin ... 168 

See JCDGUENT, 4. 

Principal and surety. 

1. — Sureties in appeal — Forfeiture of recognizances-^Principal 
and surety. 

The two appellants became sureties for the accused Janis " call- 
ing the sentence of the police court into review, and abiding by the 
decision of the Supreme Court." The sentence having been affirmed 
a notice was served upon Janis to appear on 30th May and hear the 
sentence in review. He did not appear, and the appellants were 
ordered to produce him on 1st June. On that day their motion for 
an extension of time was refused and the penalty on their bond 
declared forfeited. 

Held, that Janis not having been called upon to surrender him* 
self, nor been informed that the sentence had been affirmed, he was 
not obliged ; and the sureties' obligation being accessory to his, they 
also were not liable ; and the order refusing reasonable time and 
declaring the bond forJEeited was irregular and must be set aside. 

P. C, (ralle, 2,254r» Queen v. Coroenerogey Janis ... 78 

2. — Principal and surety — One of two sureties paying off whole 
debt — Action against principal — Prescription^^Ordinance No 8 of 
1834, sect. 5 [Ordinance No. 22 of 1871, sect. 8.] 

Plaintiff, one of two sureties who had not renounced the bene- 
fidum divisionis, paid the whole debt and now sued the principal to 
recover the amount so paid. 

Held, that he could recover, notwithstanding that he could not 
have been compelled to pay the whole debt. 

Seld also^ following Weiretnan v« Jayesondra (ante p. 17), that 



50 

Page. 

plaintiff's action was not ban-ed by sect. 5 of Ordinance No. 8 of 

1834. 

D. C, Galle, 13,525. Aasen Saiho v. Ludovici ... 154 

Private person arresting. 

See MuRDEB. 

Privileged communication. 

See Defamation, 3. 

Proclamation. 

1. — Proclamation of 2nd March, 1815 — Martial law — Charter 
of 1833. 

The defendant was charged with a breach of sect. 8 of the 
Proclamation of 2nd March 1815, which rendered liable to the penal- 
ties of martial law all relatives of the late King of Kandy, that 
returned to this Island without permission. The defendant was 
conyicted by the district court, which held that the Charter of 1833, 
abolishing all subordinate courts, had vested exclusive criminal 
jurisdiction in the district court, which thus could entertain the charge. 

Heldf setting aside the conviction and sentence, that offenders 
against sect. 8 should be tried by some proceeding under martial law; 
that the charter did not and could not abolish courts martial ; that no 
enactment had em[>owered the district court to administer martial 
law} and further that tbie evidence did not support the charge, 

D. Cv, Kandy, 6,521. Queen v. Kistnappa Nayakar •«• 45 

2.— Proclamation of 2^rd Sept. 1799io 
See Succession. 

^.---Proclamation of ISth Sept. 1819. 
See MoRTUAiN laws. 

Proctor^ 

1. — Proctor— Ordinance No. 12 of 1848, sect. 5— Certificate 
io practise. 

Under sect. 5 of Ordinance No. 12 of 1848 a proctor cannot 
obtain any taxation of any costs, or maintain any suit to recover costs, 
for any work done as proctor while ^rithout the necessary certificate, 
and he is liable to be prosecuted by the Q. A. for the prescribed fine. 

In the matter of the application of JiJ. T. Oerlits and Will. 

Vanden Driesen .•» .». ... ,., 57 



51 



Pagz. 



2 — JProctoY who is witness for his client^-** Keeping out of 
hearing^-^R. ^ 0. 1833, sect, i, nde 27. 

The rules of practice are not in the diacretion of the difltrici; 
courts to observe or not, but are liable to legal construction; and 
clause 27 of sect. 1 of the General Rules and Orders of Ist October 
1833 ought of necessity to be construed to exempt a proctor in the 
cause, and medical and scientific witnesses called to give their 
opinions on the evidence of others, from being '' kept out of hearing," 
such cases being exceptions under the general law of evidence and 
not abrogated by the rules. 

D. C. Colombo, 42,877. Oorloff v. Ebert... ... 72 

8. — Proctor who is also witness — Remaining in Court, 

If the proctor in the cause is a witness, he will generally be 
allowed to remain in court, his assistance being necessary for the 
proper conduct of the cause; but this is matter for the discretion 
of the judge. 

C, E., Badulla, 1,902. Manikralle v. Dingiry Menika 58 

4. — Proctor and client — Proctor abandoning cUent^s case, 
A proctor is not justified in abandoning the conduct of his 
client's case after merely giving a general notice that he was leaviug 
the district and calling on persons having claims against him to 
prefer the same. 

D. C, Chilaw, 11,148. Doiiwe v. Jayewardene ..- 155 

5. — Proctor — Practice — Proctor stiing in person in his own Court 
'-^Appeal out of time — H, & 0, 1833, sect, viii, r, 5. 

It is a general rule that all proctors, attorntes and solicitors are 
privileged to sue and be sued in their respective courts in person. 
If a district court finds upon inquiry that the omission to file petition 
of appeal in time was due neither to the negligence nor delay of the 
appellant, the matter should be referred to the Supreme Court to 
decide on the allowance or rejection of the appeal, according to the 
5th rule of section viii of the R. & O. 

D. C, Kandy, 18,649. Silva v. Coppe Tamhy •.. 66 

6 . — Proctor — Professional neg ligence — Damages, 
A proctor is liable in damages to his client who has suffered loss 
through the proctor^s culpable want of care and diligence in ascer- 
taining the real facts of the case, in which he was employed by the 
plaintiff, and in preparing the pleadings, evidence and appeal, 

D. C, Colombo, 34,826. Candappa v. Vaderstraaten.., -2^ 



62 



Paox. 



7. — Poctor^S^port on application to me in forma pauperis— 
gross negligence. 

Where a court on 2nd September condemned the appellant, a 
proctor, (who had reported that plaintifiE, a pauper, had a good cause 
of action) in the coats of a suit in which he did not appear, on the 
ground of gross negligence in recommending the action; and it 
appeared that the appellant had no opportunity of showing cause nor 
notice of the order against him till over six months after it was made; 

Held, reversing the order of the court below, that appellant was 
not precluded by not having appealed against the order of 2nd Sep.^ 
as he could not be presumed to have had notice of that order ; 

JHeld also, that the gross negligence was not made out. 

D. C, JafEna, 4,517. Sidavy v. Sinny ... ... 16 

See Advocate, 
Pauper. 

Petition of appeal, 1, 2. 
Postponement, 1, 3. 
Security in appeal. 

Profits.. 

See Interest, 3. 

Promissory note. 

Promissory note, presentment of — Days of grace — Roman Dutch 
Jaw, 

Under the Roman Dutch law no days of grace are recognised in 
the negociation of promissory notes. 

Randall y, Haupt (1 Menzies' Cape Reports, 79) approved 
qtwad hoc, 

D. C, Colombo, 16,732. Oerard v. Fulton ... 124 

See Provisional judgment, 5. 

Provisional judgment 

1. — Provisional judgment — Kandi^an Provinces, 
Provisional judgment is matter of substantive law and not of 
practice. As part of the law of Holland it was introduced into the 
Maritime Provinces, but it cannot be enforced in the Eandyan 
Provinces. 

D. C, Kandy, 23,468. Ossena Saibov, Dawoodoo Saiho 112 
2.'^Provisional judgment — Private notice to shew cause against-^ 

" Admit or deny signature^^ — Summons, 

Action on a promissory note, with prayer for namptissement. 

The usual summons issued^ without calling upon defendant to admit 



53 



Paob. 



or deny signature. After appearance entered, plaintiff's proctor 
served private notice on defendant that on a daj named he would 
moye for provisional judgment. 

Heldy that this notice was insufficient to bring defendant before 
the court for the purpose, inasmuch as. being intended to supply a 
defect in the original summons, it should have been served in as 
solemn a way as the summons; and that the notice was also informal 
for not calling upon defendant to admit or deny his signature. 

D. C, Colombo, 2,303. Dorahjee t. Meera Lebhe ... 75 

8. — Trovisional pidgment — Account stated — Variance between 
Itbel and summons — Alteration of instrument — Stamp — Affidavit in 
support of answer. 

The libel claimed £259 12s, as a sum acknowledged to be due 
to plaintifE by defendant upon account stated, and called upon defen- 
dant to admit or deny signature '' to the account hereunto annexed, 
maked Lr. A., and to show cause why he should not be condemned pro- 
visionally to pay to the plaintiff the said sum of £259 I2s. with 
legal interest thereon from the institution of this suit till payment 
in full." The summons required defendant to f^nswer the claim »2 
plaintiff for the sum of £259 12s, due upon an account dated 
10th August ] 842. 

Held, that this was not a material variance such as would preju- 
dice defendant, especially as the answer, admitting signature, did not 
object to the cause of action or the variance, but pleaded that one 
item in the account was wrongly included therein. 

Held also, that a vitium (whether blot, tearing of the paper, 
erasure or interlineation) must be of such a considerable nature as 
to impress the mind of the judge with a suspicion of the important 
parts of the document, before namptissement would be refused ; and 
that consequently, where the alteration was the correction of an 
error in the summing up of the credit side of the account, this was 
not a material error and would not deprive plaintiff of the provi- 
sional decree. 

Held also, that an account so signed by the defendant is not an 
obligation and requires no stamp. 

Held also, that as evidence by affidavit was inadmissible to 
procure provisional judgment it should not be allowed in opposition 
thereto. 

D. C, Colombo, 36,701. Tambapulle v. Sanawiere ... 21 

4. — Provisional Judgment — Counter proof hy defendant — Time 
to adduce. 

When^ upon a motion for provisional judgment, the defendant 



54 

Paqi. 

wishes to adduce counter proof to the plaiutiflTs, he should be alloiv- 
ed a further day for the purpose. 

D. C, Colombo, 8,652. IJmoor Catta v. Coonjie Mu8a 88 

^.--^Pravisional jndffment — ProntMOfy notB-^Recdpt of €fily 
part consideration. 

Where provisional sentence was claimed on a promissorj note 
and it was resisted on the ground of non-receipt of ihe consideration 
in full, and it appeared that the wheat, for the price of which the 
note had been given, had all been. delivered to the defendant who 
had removed only part ; 

Held (following GolUson 4r Co. v. Ekoteen^ 1 Menzie, 46) that 
delivery of part of the consideration was sufficient to support the 
whole note, and that no defenco to the prayer for provisional 
sentence had been shown. 

D. C, Kandy, 27,660a MeeyapuUe v. Soyza ... 57 

g. — Provisional judgment — Interlocutor^/ order. 
An appeal from a decree of provisional judgment may be prose- 
cuted without giving security, as from an interlocutory order. 

D. C, Colombo, 87,269. Edidjee v, Ismail Lebbe ... 6 

Punishment 

Punishment — Flogging with the rattan. 

Flogging with the rattan is not a legal punishment. 

D. C, Ratnapoora, 4,654. Pinna v. Kirry Binda ... 69 

See Malicious injury, 2. 
Master and pupil. 
Thbft, 2. 

Queen's Advocate. 

Queen^s Advocate, action by — Ordinance No, 14 of 184S— 
Discretion. 

Where, in an ordinary suit by the Q. A. for the recovery of a 
Crown debt> the defendants (excepting the first) made default, and 
plaintiff moved for judgment against them, the district judge dis- 
allowed the motion, holding that the Q. A. was bound to proceed 
under the Ordinance No. 14 of 1843, which prescribed seizure of the 
debtor's property by the Government Agent as the first step in such 
a proceeding. 

Seld^ that the Ordinance did not take away the Q. A/s Common 



55 



Page. 



Law remedy against tlie debtor and that proceeding under the 
Ordinance was discretionary with him. 

D. C, Kandy, 16,417, BulUr v. Perera ... ... II 

Recognizance. 

Beccgnizance, power of justice to take-^Ordinance No, 15 of 
1843, sect. 36 {^Ordinance No. 11 0/I868, wc^ 1%^"]— Recognizance 
to appear when noticed — Forfeiture — Notice to appear, form and 
service of— ^Ordinance No, 11 0/ 1844, sect. 7 [^Ordinance No. 6 of 
1855, sectn 10] — Review by Supreme Court-^'Ordinance No, 11 of 
1848, sect. 14 [Ordinance No. 7 of 1874 sect. 6.] 

The Supreme Court has power, under Ordinance No 11 of 1843, 
sect. 14, to review the proceedings of a police court in recovering the 
amount of a forfeited recognizance. 

The cognizor was charged with theft on oath before a justice, 
who, without recording any depositions, took of him and two sureties 
a recognizance ^' to appear and answer to any information, indictment, 
or sufficient complaint which shall be presented against him in any 
competent court for Midland Circuit upon receiving notice of the 
time and place of holding such court at Colombo (which place is 
hereby elected by him for that purpose.)'' 

Meld, that no bail could be required by a justice except as 
provided for by Ordinance No. 15 of 1843, and that the bond in the 
present case, having been taken before any examinations had been 
recovered, was void. 

Held however, {diasentiente Carr, J.,) that in a proceeding to 
recover the penalty on the bond a police court could not inquire 
whether the recognizance had been rightly taken, its duty beingf 
only to take proof of the forfeiture thereof 

A notice dated 7th August 1851, was on 12th August left at the 
cognisoi's last known place of abode in Colombo, requiring him to 
appear before the Supreme Court at Colombo *^ forthwith" on pain 
of forfeiting his recognizance. 

Held, that though the service of this notice was sufficient, it was 
wholly insufficient in form; that there had therefore been no forfei- 
ture proved; and that the order of the police court requiring th^ 
cognizor and his sureties to pay the penalty of the bond into court 
was irregular and must bo set aside. 

P, C, Colombo, . The Queen v. J^rice ... 171 

See Principal and surety, 1. 

Registration of marriage. 

See Donation, 2, 



56 

pAai. 

Bent 

Bent — Use and occupation — House htiilt on another^ s ' land-^ 
Court of Requests, jurisdiction of. 

A person who builds a house on another's land with the owner's 
permission is not liable to pay rent to a purchaser of the land from 
the owner, and even if ejected^ would be entitled to remore the 
materials of the hou^e. 

C, R., Kurnagalle, 727. Perera v. Singo Naide •.. 114 

Replication. 

See Practice^ 8. 

Res judicata. 

Res judicata — Husband and wife — Kandyan Law, 
Where the defendant's father had sued the plaintiff's husband 
(Selappoo) in a former suit to recover the land now in dispute, and 
Selappoo relying on his own right apart from his wife had failed 
and judgment had been entered for the present defendant for the 
lands ; 

Held, that the plaintiff (who now relied on her own independent 
right) was not barred by the previous action, and was entitled to 
recover, having made out a prescriptive title as against the defendant. 

D. C, Kandy, j~j^ Kiri Ettena v. Heteregedere Appu 33 

See Absolution. 

District Court, 1, 

Revivor^ biff of. 

See Partt, 1. 

Right of reply. 

See Evidence, 8. 

Robbery^ 

See Indictment, 8. 

Rule nisL 

See Practice, 5, 6. 



S7 

Rules and Orders. 



Pa«i. 



183S, 0ect. i, r. 27. 
See Proctor, 2. 



1833, sect. ^ rr. 29, 31. 

See Examination of parties 1|3) 4. 

1633, sect, i, r. 82. 
See Interv^ition, 2% 

1888, sect, i, r. 33. 
See Practice, 5, t. 

1833, sect, i, r^ 43, 
See Paaper, 4. 

1833, sect, ii, (Forms.) 
. See Contempt of court, 4. 

1833, sect, iv, r, 7. 
See Administration, 4 

1833, sect, viii, r. 5« 
See Proctor, d. 



5th Jalj, 1842. 
See Judgment, 2. 

6th July, 1842, r. 1, 
See Defamation, 1* 

dth July, 1842. r. 4. 
See Demurrer, 8. 
Practice, 4. 

17th June, 1844, r. 4. 
See Ex parte hearing. 
Practice, 9. 

17th June, 1844, r. 7. 
See Practice, 7. 

6th December, 1845 [Ordinanoa 
No. 12 of 1852.] 
See Indictment, 2. 
Practice, 7, 



Schedule of Udear. 

See Fiscal, 1, 2, 

Scienter. 

See Akikai;. 

Second action. 

See Nonsuit. 

Secundum probata* 

See ExAOOERATlON Of CLACK. 
NoN-lOINDEfi. 

Security in appeal 

SecufiUf bond in appeal^^^AwAoriiy of prodor to eign'^Pmetie^^ 
Where a proctor's proxy did not authorise him to sign the aeeu* 
rity bond in appeal on behalf his client, 
Heldy that it was bad, being so signed. 
S^mii*^ from tbeprActice of the House of Lords »nd Privy 



S8 

Pagi* 
Gonncil, that a petition of appeal to the Sapreme Gooit should be 
signed by a proctor of that court. 

But it is not practicable so to confine the bumneBS of appeals, 
owing to the state of outstation courts as regards proctors. 

D. C; Amblangoddey 4,280« Carloe y. Ouappcowe ... 8 

Security for costs. 

See Stat of pkoc£Sdiho8, 3. 

Seduction. 

See DEFLoiunos. 

Sentence. 

See Malicious injubt, 2. 

Separate suit. 

See Administration, 2. 
Partition, 2. 
Testauentabt suit. 

Sequestration. 

See Contempt op court, 2. 
Practice, 10, 11. 

Service tenures. 

Service tenures — Peraveni tenantt and tenants at will — Aliena^ 
iion — Ejectment, 

Where lands are held in paraveni subject to services, the 
tenants maj alienate them, but they still remain subject to the per- 
formance ox the services. A plaintiff suing in ejectment should aver 
that the defendants are tenants at will 

D. C, Ratnapoora, 5,636. Bamaike Nilleme v. Mudianse 159 

Ship. 

Ship J liability to keep in repair^^Owner and hirer. 
Under the Roman Dutch law, the owner of a ship which he has 
let to another is bound to keep it in good repair : on his failing to do 
00, the hirer may execute repairs, deducting their value from the rent 
agreed upon, or may abandon the property let. 

D. C, JafEna, S;271. Ribery v. Sanmogum ••• 148 

Slander* 

See Defamation, 2. 

Smuggling. 

Ses Plaint. 



59 



l^xat* 



Specialty. 

See Bond. 

Specific performance. 

specific performance-^ Agreement for ealt of land-^ Recital and 
reference to other docnments. 

In an action for specific performance of an agreement by defen* 
dant to convey certain land to plaintiff, the following was proved to 
be the agreement executed befor^ a notary and witnesses : " Don 
Gomelis Ameresekere (the plainttff) having agreed with me by let- 
ters bearing date the 9th inst., with respect to the garden Pahale Am- 
begahawatte, otherwise called fiandarewatte, I have received tho 
sum herein mentioned (£450)." 

Held, that the plaintiff had not shown any concluded agreement, 
and was not entitled to judgment. 

D. C, Colombo, 4,821. Ameresekere v. Jayetoardene ... 162 

Stamp. 

1. — Stamp — Pleadinge of intervenients — Value of land in die^ 
pfite. 

Where intervenients come into a suit, the value of stamps on 
their pleadings must be regulated by the value stated in the claimi 
unless this be disputed as excessive, 

D, C,,Kandy, 26,719. Selbyy, Juanis. •., ... 182 

2.—Stamp^0rdinance No, 19 of 1852 lOrdinance Ko. 23 
of 1S7 1, "] — Petition of appeal — Stamping after filing. 

The appellate court rejected a petition of appeal because it was 
not stamped in terms of the Ordinance No. 19 of 1852, and could 
not aftei'wards be stamped. The Supreme Court had no power to 
grant to any party the indulgence of filing a fresh petition after the 
time prescribed by the Ordinance had elapsed. 

C. R., Pt. Pedroe, 1,269. Alwar v. Valiuppen, ••• 61 

8. — Stamp — Petition of appeal against committal for contempt. 
Petitions of appeal in cases of contempt of court are not required 

to bear any stamp, such proceedings being in the form of those in 

criminal cases, which need bear no stamp. 

£e JBastian, ... ... ,.• ... 110. 

4. — Stamp — Docftments to establish contract req%dring to be in 
writing under the Ordinance of Frauds — Ouarantee-^Coimderation 
ex facie. 

Plaintiff, the holder of a note made by S., who was about to 
leave the Island, contemplated arresting S. in mesne process, but do- 



eo 

Paox* 

feiflted upon defendant's promising to pay the debt. Plaintiff brought 
this action to recover the amount of the note, and at the trial tender- 
ed certain letters of defendant's in eridence to prore the guarantee. 
These were objected to as unstamped. 

Held, that the guarantee, not showing on the face of it the con- 
sideration for which it was given, was not binding on defendant. 
Further, the letters could not be held sufficient to establish a con* 
tract which was not in itself binding on the parties or required a 
stamp, 

D. C, Badulla, 18,871. Meera Saibo t. Falconer, . . 177 

5. — Stamp on Dowry deedr^Postponement to promre stamping. 

Where on production of a deed at the trial it is found insuffi- 

cientlj stamped, the case may be allowed to stand over to get the 

deed duly stamped, but if the cause come on for hearing again without 

this being done, the defendant should be absolved from the instance. 

D. 0., Jaffna, 420. Candappa v. Nagamany ••• ••• 80 

6. — Stamps Objection^ when to he taken. 
An objection to the stamp must be made before the paper is 
read in evidence, 

G. R., Ghavakachcheri, 4,171. Caeinader v. Morger ... 68 

See Pbovisional Judgmbkt, 8. 

Stay of proceedings. 

1. — Stay of proceedings f oiject of-^Identity of subject matter'^ 
Texatiousnees* 

Observations on the object, and scope of the remedy of staying 
proceedings in an action until the payment of costs previously de- 
creed against the plaintiff. 

D. G., Galle, 15,108. Candoe Umma v. Saripadien ... 122 

2. — Stay of proceedings till payment of costs of former action. 

The court should not stay the proceedings in a second action 
until payment of the costs of a former action for the same subject- 
matter, unless such second action appears to be vexatious. 

D, C., Batticaloa, 11,446. Cungecandepody v. Falen ... 118 

8, — Staying proceedings until security for costs given — Notice of 
motion. 

Notice of motion to stay proceedings until plaintiff finds secu- 
rity for costs must be given to the plaintiff. 

Where plaintiff resided and had property in the Island (though 
not in the district in which the case was pending) and it was not 
alleged that he intended leaving the Island^ 



61 



PAai. 



Hddy tHat this was not Bufficient reaion for calling upon plain- 
tijEE to find such'securitj. 

D. *C., Negombo, 10,948. Comalis Appu v. Carroll ••• 15 

^ See Appeal, 1. 

Succession. 

Successiony laws ofjOmong natives of BatUcaloa — Ordinance No. 5 
of 1885 {r«pealed^ and proclamation of 23rd Sept., 1799. 

The laws and customs of Tamils of Batticaloa, regarding rights 
of succession to property, were neyer interfered with by the Dutch 
courts, and must stiU goyem cases arising among those natives* The 
special customs of the Moquas and Wanniahe have also been recog- 
nised by the Supremo Court in session at Jaffna. 

D. C, Batticaloa, 8,988. Chinnetamhjf y. Wennye ... IS 

8ee Inheritance. 

Kandtan lav, 2, 8, 4, 5. 

Summary proceedings. 

See Crown lan», 1, 2. 
Partition, 8. 

Superannuated Judgment 

See PracticK) 11. 

Superannuated writ 

See Practice, 11. 

Surety. 

See Principal and surety. 

Survey. 

1, — Survey, power of court to order — Proceeding where eurvey 
is necessary, 

A court has no powet to order sunreys, or to dismiss a party's 
case because he cannot pay the expenses of a survey ordered by 
court. If plaintiff is unprovided with a survey, where one is necessary 
for the understanding of his case, defendant must be absolved, or 
plaintiff allowed time to produce one on payment of all costs. 

D. C.y Negombo, 7,658. Simon y. Batteleapatera ... 16 

2. — Cancelling private survey-^Power of Court to order. 

A xsourt has no power to cftncel, obliterate or alter any priyatt 



63 



Paoi. 



map or Bunrej by a party of his own land, merely beeauM it ia in- 
correct ; though the court may reject it as proof. 

D. C.f Colombo, 9,247. Fernando ▼. Bodrigo 5 

See Boundaries. 
Highway. 

Tatto-maroo* 

Tatto-maroo cultivator — Right to gems found on land-^Damagee* 
Where all the parties entitled to cultivate in tacto-maroo were 
engaged in searching for gems on the land, one party cannot recover 
damages from the other for injury to the land unfitting it for culti- 
vation. 

Joint proprietors are presumably entitled to share in the value 
of any gem found on the land. 

D. C, Ratnapoora, 6,294. Naidehamy v. Kalvhamy ••• S7 

Testamentary suit 

Testamentary mit — Irregular proceedings^ Separate action. 

An administrator having filed an inventory of the intestate's pro* 
perty as it stood at the time of her death sixteen years before (after 
which he had himself possessed such property as her husband,) one 
of the heirs applied that he be ordered to file an inventory of the 
present property too. To this application the administrator answered, 
and the applicant replied, and after argument the court decided for 
the administrator. 

Held, that the entire proceeding was irregular and must be set 
aside. 

D. C, Colombo, 216. Re Atkinson^ Vandersmagt v. Sansoni..* 149 

Theft, 

1.^^ Theft — Fair claim of right hy the acctued. 
Where, upon a charge of theft, there is any fair claim of pro- 
perty or right in the prisoner to the subject of the theft, or if it be 
brought into doubt at all, the court will acquit the prisoner. 

P. C., Negombo, 9,340. Ohristiansx v. Fernando ... 126 

2.— 2%«/l — Cattle stealing — Unlawfully receiving stolen cattle^* 
Corporal punishment. 

The practice of the Supreme Court for some years past has been 
not to inflict corporal punishment where the prisoner is acquitted of 
the first count for stealing cattle, and convicted only on the second 
count for receiving, 

D. C; Matura, 7,887. Wellehinde ▼. Don Andris ... 69 



68 



Paqk. 



Thesavalamai. 

1. — Thesavalamai-^Batticaloa customary law — Dowry property^ 
alienation of by husband. 

ObBervatioDs on the similarity existing between the Thesavalamai 
and the customary law obtaining at Batticaloa. 

D. C, Batticaloa, 10,443. ••• ... ... 135 

2 .-^ITiesavalamai — Roman Dutch law — Surviving spouse — UsU" 
fiiictuary alienating or encumbering subject of the usufruct. 

Under the Thesavalamai, children cannot claim the profits from 
the estate of their deceased father until after the mother's death. 

By the Roman Datch law, a usufructuary attempting to alienate 
the property does not forfeit his usufruct. 

D. C, JafiEna, 1,601. Casinader v. Raymond ... 188 

Time. 

Time for doing an act under rtdes of court, calculation of. 

Where an act is required by the rules and practice of the courts 
to be done within a particular number of days, the period shall be 
reckoned exclusively of the first day and inclusively of the last day ; 
except when such last day falls on a Sunday or public holiday, in 
which case the time is extended to the following day. 

D. C, Colombo, 4,7 62* Ahamado Lebbe v. Sultan Marikar 7 

See Petition of appeal, 8. 

PfiACTICE, 4, 6. 

Title. 

See Crown land, 1, 2, 
Hindoo temple. 
Judgment, 8. 
Partition, 2. 
Possessory action, 2. 

Tolls. 

1. — Tolls — When payable — "/« respect of* bridges and ferries^ 
If a person crosses or passes over any bridge or ferry, he is lia* 
ble to pay toll " in respect of" it, and cannot evade the toll by stop- 
ping at the collector's house on the other side of the river and not pass* 
mg through the bar placed there. 

P. C, Caltura, 13,712. Ferera ▼. Fcnseha ••• 61 

2.— Tolls— Ordinance No. 9 o/1845, sect. 2 ^Ordinance No.-U 
of 1867, sect. 4.] 

Sect. 2 of Ordinance No. 9 of 1845 levies the toll upon the 
vehicle drawn by a horse, and not upon the horse. I£ therefore toll 
have been pa^d on such a vehicle it may return free, drawn by the 
same horse. But if die horse return alone, it is liable to pay, no toll 



64 

liaTing previonslj been exacted for h^a passage. It toUowa, that no 
previous payment of toll for a horse can operate as an exemption 
from any portirm of the toll demandable upon a Tehicle drawn by 
such horse^ although the horse itself might pass toll free under 
sect. 6. 

P, C, Colombo, 6,095, Doe v. Voor$, •.. ... 91 

Trespass. 

See Assault. 

P0fiS£8S0Bt ACTIOIff, 2% 

Ultra vires. 

Bee District Court, 1. 

Use and occupation. 

See Rent. 

Usufruct. 

See THESAYALAMil, 2. 

Usufructuary mortgage. 

See Interest, 3. 

MOBTQAOE, 1, 2. 

Vagrant 

Vagrants Ordtnance, No. 4 of 1841, eeci. 8, tuheect Z'^-^Deeer* 
Hon of wife and children — Continuance of offence. 

Desertion is a continuing offence and must be considered as re« 
peated every day that it continues to exist, and the plaint should lay 
the offence on a date within a month of filing it, in order to take the 
case out of sect. 22 of the Vagrants Ordinance^ 1841 « 

P. C, Qalle, 8,421. Bahahamy v. Juan ... ... 110 

Variance. 

See Inndictmet, 2. 

Vexatious action* 

See Stat of fboceedikos, 1. 

Vexatious prosecution. 

Vexatious prosecution — Ordinance Ifo. 11 of 1848 sect. IS 
[Ordi/MLnoe No. 11 </ 1868, sect. \0%']r^Fine. 

Each of the complainants, who have jointly brought a false, 
frivolous or vexatious charge, may be fined £1 under aect. 12 o£ 
Ordinance No. 11 of 1848. 

P. a, Cbavakaeheheri, U,S23. Arm^fom r. BUrnr 

heremadtt •#« «<• < «<« •«• M 



«5 

Will 

l.-^Will^PrAat&^Proof in solemn and ecmtMn form^^cn^ 

Bent of minors to probate. 

Minors cazmol loonjpent to probate in common form, and the court 
should appoint A guardian and allow a caveat to be entered and the 
nirill proved in Bolemn form, if the court doubts the validity of the 
instrument, even though isonsent of parties be seemingly givea to 
probate in common form. 

D. C„ Matara, 834. In re Thomas Araichy «.. 63 

2. — Willy Joint 4>r mutual^^English and Roman Dutch law. 

A mutual will is unknown to the English law, but is allowed by 
Dutch law to married persons. Such a will, though on one paper, con* ^ 
tains two distinct wills, each of which may be proved separately as such. 

D. C, Negombo, 10,866. Fernando v. Fo'nseka «•• 21 

Withdrawing ease from trial roll. 

See Practice, 7. 

Witness. 

1. — Witness, examination of, as to writing^^Discretion of court 
as to recall and postponement. 

'* A witness cannot properly be asked on cross-examination 
whether he had written such a thing; the proper course is to put the 
writing into his haiids, and ask him whether it is his writing." 

The district court has full power to call for further evidence at 
any stage of the trial, and to postpone the trial for the purpose; and 
to put questions to witnesses for the prosecution to explain objections 
taken by counsel for the prisoners. 

D. C, Matelle, 4,138^ Zohu Banda v. Sirimalralle ».. 10 

2. — Witness, attesting^^Evidence of handwriting. 
The hopeless illness of an attesting witness is not a sufficient 
ground for admitting evidence of his handwriting. Where a notary 
is dead, proving his handwriting would not suffice, but an attesting 
witness would have to be called. 

D. C, Colombo, 32,837.«— 2>on David r. Ederemanesingem Si 
See Evidence, 1, 9. 
Proctor, 2, 3. 

Writ of possession. 

See CoNTBMPT Of court, 3. 

Writing. 

See PrincipaIi and agent, 8. 
Stamp, 4. 
Witness, 1» 



■ ^ 



D. C, Colombo, } -rrr jj »>• *' Supfcme Court 

No. 3,569. ( ^'^^'' ""' ^^^•^- SlinuteB," 

' 1843, 

Carr, J.,— -Remanded for the case to be beard de novo. 
The defendant has not satisfactorily made out his case, as the ^^* 

facts deposed to by his witnesses are not conclusive. For 
instance, though the defendant and the deceased respectively 
addressing each other as ^^ father" and ** son" is one of the 
strongest facts proved, yet such expressions amongst Kandyans 
of the same caste are not uncommon between any old and young 
persons living together^ or intimately known to each other. 

There are *no prescribed forms of adoption under the 
Kandyan law, which are, nevertheless, very strict in requiring 
clear proof of the adoption being openly declared, and recog- 
nized in such a manner as can leave no doubt of the adopting 
party's intention, that the child adopted should thereby succeed 
as an heir to the estate of the adopting parent. Thus, it has 
been held, though a child may have been reared in a family, 
and contracted marriage, and dwelt with his wife in the house 
of his patron, and cultivated his lands, yet such circumstances 
alone would not be construed into a regular adoption, unless it 
could be also shewn that, by agreement with the natural parents 
of the child on its removal, or by subsequent declarations smd 
acts of the adopting party, a clear intention was manifested by 
him to adopt the child as his own son, and to make him an heir 
to his estate. 



^No' ^Tii' I ^^^^ Mentha v. Tikeri Mentha. June 24. 

Per Curiam, (Oliphant, C. J., Carr, J., and Stark, J.) :— 
Decree modified by it being decreed that the plaintiffs are entitled 
to recover one-half of the lands in dispute^ and that both parties 
do pay their own costs in this case. 

The late father of the second and third plaintiffs and first 
defendants having left issue by two marriages, his estate should 
be divided into two equal portions, and the defendant being the 
only child by one marriage, is entitled to a moiety of her 
parent's estate, and would not forfeit such right by her 
deega marriage in favour of her brothers or sisters of the 
half blood. 



" Supreme Court There appears to have existed a difference between ttd 

1 ftj*Q^'" /S^o^ra^fam and Udderatte customs on this last point, as by the 
lo4,>. Saffragam customs a deega daughter of the half blood would 

~" never forfeit by any deega marriage her right to inherit a share 

of her father's estate in favour of her brother and sisters of the 
half blood \ whereas the old Udderatte customs made a dis- 
tinction in such cases as to the rights of the daughter when she 
had been married in deega by her father, and where she married 
in deega subsequent to his decease. Yet, this distinction never 
extended to the mother's estate ; and even in respect to the 
father's estate, it does not, from the cases cited at the bar, ap- 
pear to have been adhered to or acknowledged latterly by the 
Kandyan Chiefs, (who have been examined in the Supreme 
Court aa assessors^ and as witnesses to the customs), the more 
liberal custom having generally prevailed, viz :-— that the daughters 
of the half blood do not forfeit, by any deega marriage, their 
right to inherit iheir parent's estate in favour of their brothers 
or sisters of the half blood. 



J«Iy 12. No. 4,0n ind°ro,»3d. } ^''^^''^ ^' ^' ^' ^^'^''• 

Per Curiam^ (Oliph4nt, C*. J., Carr, J., and Stark, J.)/— . 
On the 15th February 1842, the district court made an 
order in the case No. 4,011 for the payment of the amount 
of deposit under the writ 2,225, to the estate oi Verwyk* Mr. 
Modder opposed this application, both as proctor for the plain- 
tiffs, and also as Deputy Queen's Advocate. Cn the 17th 
February 1842^ Mr. Modder, as Deputy Queen^s Advocate, made 
an application in the case No. 10,9^, that the amount de- 
posited, being the proceeds sale of 8rd defendant's property, 
might be paid to the Crown in pari satisfaction of the judgment 
of the Idth February in the Crown's favour, which was refused 
QQ the ground that the district court had already made an order 
on the 15th February for the payment in favour of Verwyk's 
estate^ but this order the Supreme Court has, on this appeal 
beard on circuit, set aside, because there was another applicant 
and the claims had not been investigated and the priority ascer- 
tained. The case now cornea before this court on the appeal by 
the attorneys of Vander Spaar, (who are the real plaintiffs ia 
both cases,) against the order of the 15th February, and thia 
court ia of opinion that a aufficient claim was put in against tb^ 



1 • 

3 

sum in deposit, because the same was still in ctisfodia legie, and " Supreme Court 
not paid over to the creditor, who took out execution. Th« Minutes/* 
Dutch law appears conclusive on this subject. Thus in Peter 1843. 

PeckiuB on Arrest, p. 464, § § 2, 8 and 4, it is stated :— "" 

'' This matter is treated here at large, and appears merely 
to have created the distinction between judicial pledge, id est, 
pignora proetorioy which is granted without previous proceedings 
at law, for the securing of a thing in litigation, de qxUhtis num 
2, from which our common arrest and attachment does not differ 
much, nor from pledge, hoc est, pignora jndicialia, seized by 
virtue of execution on judgments; this dietinction, however, 
does not determine the case by our daily practice, because it is 
a general rule amongst us that arrest gives no preference with- 
out any distinction, even in pignora judieialia, and arrest in 
execution, which gives to no one a right, as long as the effectual 
execution does not follow it, that is to say, as the executed 
property or the proceeds produced therefrom, have not been 
actually delivered over to the hands of the creditor ; because as 
long as there is something remaining, it is understood that pre- 
ference and concurrence take place, and that every one may 
always for that purpose interpose his claim, as the execution 
being made for every one, each retains his right. For which 
purpose also the publications of sale by execution are made ia 
order that every one may prefer his claim if he has any. See 
Instructions of the Court, art. 176 and 177. This had beeu 
adjudged in revision by the Supreme Court on the 27th Feb. 
1652, on a certain petition presented by Aelbrecht Erasmus 
Heeman against the superintendent of the dams and dykes o£ 
the great dykes of Adsmeer, plaintiff, in arrest in execution 
on the moveable goods of Gerrit Tresveld, sheriff of Aelsmeer, 
against the delivery of the proceeds of the goods sold, and the 
prayer for injunction granted against the payment of the pro- 
ceeds in execution : in which case it has been distinctly ad- 
judged that as the plaintiff has not opposed the sale or execu- 
tion, which he approved as being well and rightly done, but 
only prosecuted his right to the proceeds produced of the goods 
floldy he was admissible, as long as the same were not paid orer. 
For which purpose, in some towns, are particular statutes that 
the sheriffs are bound not to pay over to the triumphant, the 
proceeds sale in execution which they receive, but to bring the 
flame into the court to be distributed there after inquiring into 
the matter. See Statutes of/ Ley den art. 197 in fine. Eo 
etiam spectare videtur decisio Anton. Fabri ad tit. Cod. de exeait, 
reijud, lib. 7. tit. 20, defin. 5, ubi refert quod jttdicati actio non 
habeat privilegium taciti pignoris ;. atque ideo non aliter condemn 



f' Supreme Court nati honapignori capi poBsini qnam si condemnato intra sfaiutum 
Minutes," tempvs non saiisfacientiy hoc ipsum judex staluatJ* 
1^^3« The court further refers on this point to the following 

' passage from Peter Vroman's Treatise de Foro Competently B. 

1, c. 3, pp. 122 and 123 :— 

*^ At Utrecht, attachment by execution gives right of pre- 
ference. Vide Consultation of Utrecht : voL ii. cons. 134. But 
with us this has not been adopted in practice. According to 
the common rule, arrest gives no priority or preference. 
Therefore with us, in regard to preference, there is no distinc- 
tion made between arrests which are granted without previous 
proceedings at law for securing a litigious cause, and arrests in 
execution ; .because even in regard to the last, he that obtains 
execution first does not amongst us acquire any right over all 
others, as long as the property seized, or the proceeds produced 
therefrom, has not in fact been delivered over to him, up to 
which time every one is at liberty to interpose his claim, be- 
cause until such time, it is considered that preference and 
concurrence have place, and that the execution was made on 
behalf of all and every of the creditors, saving to each, however, 
his right ; as has been adjudged on the 27th February 1862 by 
the Supreme Court in revision, on the petition presented by 
Augustus Erasmus Heerman against the inspectors of the dams 
and dykes of the great Dam of Aelsmeer, plaintiff in arrest in 
execution, and the prayer for injunction against the payment of 
the proceeds in execution granted.'' 

The order of the 15th day of February 1842 must there- 
fore be set aside, and the amount deposited be paid to all 
claimants according to their legal priorities. Each party to 
bear their own costs, excepting such costs as may have been 
paused by the new libel not having been filed in time, which 
^ust he borne by plaintiffs. 



P. C, Colombo, ] «.? KL 

July 12. No! 8,981. I ^^^'''•T.JWw. 



Per Curiam : — The Supreme Court have not been able to 
find that the district courts have any authority, by the Dutch law, 
tQ award triple costs.. 



B, C, Colombo, V jp ^j ri ui j " Supreme Court 

No 9 371 f ^^'^^'^^ ^- Coulthard. Alinutes/' 

' ' ' ^ 1843. 

Carr, J., — Set aside and plaintiff's claim for damages dis- — 

missed but both parties are to pay their own costs in this suit. Augt. 24. 

The defendant was clearly justified in seizing the plaintiff 
and detaining him in custody until the crowd had dispersed, 
but as the plaintiff is not proved to have been guilty of any 
violence, nor charged with any serious offence, nor appear even 
to be known to the defendant, this court considers that the 
defendant ought not to have left the plaintiff locked up in the 
stocks to pass the whole night there in the open air, though 
the plaintiff, having obstinately refused to come out, when 
desired, is not entitled to any claim for damages. 

If the defendant had adduced only evidence that he had 
revisited the stocks on the same night after the crowd had dis- 
persed, in order to release the plaintiff and had then found that 
the plaintiff had broken the stocks and forcibly released himself, 
or that defendant not having done so was owing to his having 
received information on that night of the plaintiff's escape, this 
court would have adjudged to the defendant his full costs in 
this action. 



Carr, J., — ^Afiirmed, except as to the order therein for 
defendant's survey to be cancelled, which is set aside. 

A court has no power to cancel, obliterate or alter any 
private map or survey which a party may have had made of his 
land, merely on account of the respective boundaries of the 
portions which he holds separately and in common, not being 
correctly defined thereon ; though the court can reject any such 
survey, in proof, or record its opinion upon the general evidence, 
shewing its incorrectness. 



Oliphant, C. J., — On the 20th day of January 1843 judg- 
ment was given by default in plaintiff's favour, and appeal was 
entered in due time; but on the 25th, a motion was made under 
(h^ 38th rule of court, on behalf of the d<^feudant, that the 



6 

" Supreme Court judgment should be set aside, and the defendant be allowed to 
Minutes" put in his answer. The district court, on the let July 1843^ 
1843. refused the application on the ground that it had no power to 

• set aside its own final judgment. 

If it were necessary to the Supreme Court in this case to 
decide this point, it would reserve it for the consideration of 
the judges collectively. But the Supreme Court considers that 
the application was rightly rejected, as the defendant in this 
case was not in a condition to take th"^ benefit of the rule, in- 
asmuch as he never could show that he was prevented from 
appearing in due time by accident or misfortune, or by not 
having received information of the proceedings, inasmuch as he 
did appear and was represented by his proctor during the whole 
proceedings. There is nothing, so far as appears, to havfe pre- 
vented him, before his departure for the coast, to have furnished 
his proctor with full instructions, not only, for answer, but for 
the conduct of the case until its determination ; and he might 
have commimicated with him in the course of a few days even 
whilst absent, and obtained time to take any particular step if 
required. If it was necessary to proceed to the coast to obtain 
information to defend the suit, the defendant should before his 
departure have applied to the court for the time on the above 
mentioned ground. But he leaves the island, and he leaves also 
his case to his proctor, without instructing him how to proceed 
in the very next stage of the case. Can he complain if the 
plaintiff, who instituted the suit in March 1842, presses for and 
obtains judgment in January 1843? He has no equity that 
this court can discover, to induce it to reverse the order of th^ 
district court of the 1st day of July 1843, which is therefore 
afiirmed with costs. 



%^o:8%r°'} ^^l^^-P^rera. 



Oi^iPBANT, C. J., — An intervenient, who intervenes to justify 
the title of the defendant, caiinot be non-suited* 



*• Supreme Court D. 0., Colombo, i r, , ,. , i r ic 

Minutes," ^q' 37 ^^9^ ' / Eduljee v. Imatl Lebbe. 



1844. 



— " Carr, J., — ^The appeal in this case should be allowed tvith- 

out security, under the exception in favor of interlocutory^ 
orders contained ip the 9rd clause of section vii* of the rules of 
court* 



The question appears settled by the Dutch law authorities "Supreme Court 
quoted, that provisional sentences and decrees not being defini- Minutes," 
tive, though they have sometimes the force of definitive sentences, 1844. 

are still typically ( ondgen tlyk) comprehended under, or come with- 
in, the denomination of interlocutary sentences; and the court 
doea not consider itself justified in putting a limited construction 
on the general exception in favor of all interlocutory orders in 
the above rule, so as to exclude any sentences that are of an 
interlocutory class or nature. As an instance that the court has 
hitherto considered the terms " interlocutory orders" and "inter- 
locutory decrees" as often used synonymously, being both 
comprehended under the general Latin term of sententia inter- 
hcutoria, and the Dutch word " interloqtieerenf" the court may 
here refer to the practice on judgments over-ruling pleas or 
demurrers, and condemning the defendant to answer, which are 
called " interlocutory decrees." (Van Leeuwen p. 628). They 
affect the principal question, and have the force of a definitive 
sentence on the point of defence raised in the plea of demurrer* 
Yet appeals from such interlocutory orders or sentences have 
always been allowed without security. 

On behalf of the respondent, the court has had strongly 
pressed upon its consideration that execution may issue under a 
provisional sentence of namptissement, wherein it materially 
differs from an interlocutory order which ought to be enforced 
by attachment for contempt ; but the court views the process 
to enforce the sentence of namptissement as only interlocutory : 
like a sequestration, it deposits the sum which is in dispute be- 
tween the parties, provisionally, with the plaintiff, upon his 
giving sufficient security, instead of its remaining in the hands 
of the defendant, pending, and subject to, the final issue of 
the cause. 



«■ 



^ No' 4 7^2*^^' I ^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^' ^^^^^^ Marikar. April 1^- 

Stark, J., — ^In all cases in which by the rules and practice 
of the courts^ any act is required to be done within a particular 
number of days, the same shall be reckoned exclusively of the 
first day, and inclusively of the last day, unless the last day 
shall happen to fall on a Sunday or public holiday, in which 
case the time shaU be reckoned exclusively of that day also.. 



8 



" Supreme Court 
Minutes," 



inutes," D. C , Amblangodde, \ /y j ^ n^ 

1844. No 4,280 ) ^^'"''^ ^' Ossappoowe. 

May 27. p^r Curiam, (Oliphant, C. J., Carr, J., and Stark J.) :— 

We all agree that the security bond is bad. The proxy 
does not authorize the proctor to \irhotii it is given, to 
sign the security bond in appeal. The Chief Justice, and 
Senior Puisne Justice, (the second Puisne Justice dissenting), 
are of opinion, from the analogy of the practice in the House of 
Lords and Privy Council, and from the address and nature of 
the petition in appeal, that, strictly speaking, it is business 
which ought to be done by a proctor of the Supreme Court. 
But the whole court is of opinion that in the present state of 
the out>station courts as regards proctors, it is not practicable 
to confine this business to proctors of the Supreme Court, and 
that it is expedient to construe the late rules of court (l2th 
December, 1843) on the subject, according to the plain and 
literal meaning of the words, namely, that appeal petitions may 
be prepared and signed by any proctor whatever. 



XT '* fiiynA i Ibrahim v. SaUfo Lehhe. 
July 12. No. 9,794. ) 



Carr, J., — Any admission of a balance, or acknowledg- 
ment, made by one party to another that a sum of money is 
due to the latter, is sufficient prima facie evidence to entitle 
the plaintifip to recover that sum on an account stated ; and it 
is not necessary to give evidence of the several items constituting 
the account. If the account be stated also verballyj the witnesses 
present should be summoned to prove the same ; but if iu 
writing, then the same should be produced, and the defendant's 
signature proved. 



July 25. ""tut^') ^^^mr^BalaAppu. 

Carp, J., — Case remanded— the word "ox," plural "oxen** 
(species boSy) is defined in Johnson's, Walker's, and Sheridan's 
Dictionary to be " the general name for black cattle,* — a castrated 



18U. 



tuU.'* And the name o£ ox or bullock is commonly used in this " Supreme Court 
colony as the general name of horned cattle distinguished from ^^^^^^ 
buflEaloes." 

Upon an indictment for stealing a bullock, it was objected 
in arrest of judgment that this description applied only to ^'a 
young bull/' but that the evidence proved that the animal stolen 
was a bull. On the point, being reserved for the collective court, 
th& judges were of opinion that the indictment was sufficiently 
proved as to the description of the animal stolen ; but the judg- 
ment was arrested on another objection, viz : that the animal 
.was proved not to belong to the person laid in the indictment 
as the oWner, nor to be in his possession, but to belong to 
another individual. 



^No' ^6 016 } ^'^^^^'"^ ^^^ ^- ^^^aAm Sahib, * Wy 30. 

A 

Carr, J., — Since the new rules of the 5th July 1842, it ' 
has not been the practice of the district court of Colombo to allow 
general demurrers, excepting to the sufficincy of the libel in 
general terms, without shewing specially the nature of the objec- ^ 

tion. Although the practice of English pleading is to allow 
demurrers in such general terms, yet, as the party demurring 
must enter the exceptions intended to be insisted on in argument 
in the margin of the demurrer books he delivers to the judges, 
(Arch. Pr. Yol. 2, p, 9), there really exists little difference therein . 
from the shorter course prescribed by the new rules. 



No! 6,687^ ^' } ^^*^ ^^^" ^* /S'M/toii Marikar ^^^^ g^ 

Carr, J., — It is correctly stated by the district judge that 
there are precedents holding that the possession of joint-tenant,, . 
coparcener, or tenant in common, is not an adverse possession ; but 
those decisions are unfortunately founded wholly on the general 
Jftvv, {Fairclaim t. Skackleton, 5 Burr. 2604, and Roscoe, Civ, 
Hvi^. rp, 329,) independent of the express provisions of the 
Ordinance 1 But the Ordinance of Prescription, No. 8 of 1884^ 
has not simply, declared that a possession of ten years adverse- 
to or' independent of that of the claimant shall give a prescript' 
^Y.e title^ .leaving it to the court to decide what is in lia.w aa«. 



10 

'femme Court tArtnb poatemon, but in the parenilieu in ihe 2iid tkoie ai 

wrato^" ^ ^libe OrdiiiftDoe it is also d^claxvd what shaB be eonndefed audi 

f?f^ ji^ adrene poaonouion under that OnUnsnoe. And upon ftll 

*" Tasent caaas thia eonii haa uniformly held tfaat, imdar that 

pareothena, there can be no exception drawn in farar «f the 

poaMaaion of one co-heir, joint>tenant, or tenant in eommcm not 

being adverae to the othdr from the tenure of their eatetea 

alone : and looking to the eril ariaing from the extrame aab- 

^riaion of land in thia colony nnder the eziating law ol 

anoeearion, it may be reaaonably preamned that the Legialatiira 

intended to annid all distinctiona in law be t w een the poaaamUm 

tU aach persona and others. 



*^*^* ^'No,^U?' } Loku Banda r. SitimalraUe. 

Garb, J., — ^The district court haa certainly fallen into a 
great blunder in examining the notary and two atteating wit- 
iieaaea to the deed without ever putting it into their haoda for 
tbem to identify—'^ A witness cannot properly be aaked on 
^ croBS-examination whether he had written auch a thing ; th^ 
** poper course is to put the writing into Ua handa^ and aak 
</ liim whether it is his writing." Ohmm's case, 2 B. 4 B. 299. 
As to the power of the court to recall the witnesaea^ the diatrict 
court under the 28th rule, seqt, 4, and sect viii* of the mlea ol 
dxe 6th July 1842, haa full power to call for any farther evi- 
dence during the trial it may think neceamryy and alao to ana* 
pend its decision for it; and eren in a criminal case, where the 
proaecutor'a counsel cloeed his case, and the counsel for the 
defendant had taken an objection to the eridenoe, the judge 
may make any further enquiriea of the witneaaea he thiaka filg 
in order to answer the objection. Mem9umt9 ea$e B. 4 E. iBt* 



Casb, J.i^The proctor, Mr. Tan Haght, la diaaUovoit 
hia ooata en both petitiona of appeaL It ia tha duty oj^ 
everr proetor to carefully peruse the pioceadtoga on bebg 
eaajaeyed to draw any petition of appeal or other plead- 
Ing. The til^taff in her libel and fepBo^oa haa vHioi 
Aol only ou her elaim by inheritance hom adoptioi]^ but alao 



11 

«r ptMDflpdT^ rigbt to Iba buds in dispute from fitMO jmm ^' SqmBM Oouft 
potMrion tbereofy aiaee ihf verbal tranter on heat marmge, bol UmtUm , " 
an Uie appeal petidon drawn bj Mr. Van Hagbt, it is alleged 1B44« 

Mudeliliainy had interrupted possession of the lands in dispute '"" 

-np to hie death three years ago. 

The isterreaieat'e daim mordoYer being advene to the 
flaintiCs» Mr. Van Haght ought never to have allowed hineelJE 
to be employed to draw the petition of the intervenienti an^ 
iliia e6utt erlil aot ■aotiaw any euch disreputable proeeeding. 



^'^fS^l] BuUer, Q. A. y. Perera D^. 3. 

The Quaeu'e Advocite, as plaintiffs, sued the defendants 
tot Che ittooveij of a joint and several debt due to the crewau 
On the failwe of the defendants (save the first) to file anawert 
piain^ff seoved lor judgment against them. The D. J. die* 
allowed the motion in these terms ; — 

*^ TbeOfdinanoeNa 14 of 1848 directed a oexiain ooipve of 
ptefimiaaijr pieoee^nga being reeorted to, previous to the oidir 
t0fj pgpeieeding being reeorted to, which preliminary prooeedr 
ings have not been adopted in the pree^iit case. The 8fd daojie 
of the Ordinance after enumerating the steps to be taken^ wy$ 
that mxy tether pcooeedinge which may he had therein^ shall 
be aecming to auch genml rules of practice aa now are of 
Wiwfter HBmj be framed by the judges of the Supreme Court* 
Ko new rules have been ficamed since the passing of the abov^ 
Ovdinanee in lieu ef the 6th section of the B. ^ O. of the 1st 
October 18S8 entitled Be/ m im e Jwrisdictiany which section was 
revokad on the 21et December 1842: So the district judg« 
i^pnAends that the geineml ni4$ to be resorted to, after ti^ 
peeliminmy stepe required by the Ordinance shall have been 
§one througby are those made Cor the Ordinary CivU JwriMeUum* 
It has been contended by the D. Q. A. that it is discret^oniny 
£or ihe Gk>vemment Agent to proceed under the Ordinance or 
noty but the district judge cannot concur in ibis view, for the 
Commissary General, the Surveyor General or any other public 
officers, may have entered into oontracts-on behalf of the crown, 
yet they could not in such case avail themselvM of the Ordi- 
nanne^ unleaiat the dieoretion ol the Govemme^ Agent, which 
ttm district jndei does not believe could have been the inten-; 
tion of the liigislatuie. The express provision made in the 
OnUnaaoe Ko. 12 of 1844 that all suits at the instonce of tha 



/^fidpremeConrt crown tfball be instituted in the name of the Queen's Adroc&tVi 
JCinotefly" makes no difference iii the que&tion, for the district judge is of 
.1844. opinion that sach poWers had been preYiooaly vested in the 

**^ Queen's Adrocate." 

On appeal, the order was set aside and interlocutory 
judgment entered against all. the defendants excepting the first 
(according* to the 4th section of the general rule of court of tbft 
.17th June 1844,) 

• . Cabr, J,,-^This action can clearly be maintained by th^ 
Queen's Advocate without having recourse to the remedy given 
under the Ordinance, which does not take away the remedy at 
common law ; (Com. Dig. tit. Action upon Stattite, C ; Saunders 
Pleading, 830 ;) and the Queen's Advocate may, therefore, sue 
under the Ordinance or not, as the circumstances of each case 
require. 

'• It often happens that a crown debtor previously conceals 
or makes away with all his property ; and if the view of the 
district judge were correct, the debtor would thereby success* 
-fully evade and estop the cro^vn's prosecuting him iix the deUl 
due to it. 

The Supreme Court considers moreover that it is discre- 
•ijionary for the Government Agent to proceed under the Ordi* 
nance, and not imperative on him (but he is subject of course 
to the order of Government thereon as on any other point of 
duty.) 

* The object of the legislature in authorising the Govern* 
talent Agent or his Assistant or Deputy to act, not only upon 
his own knowledge, but also on notice to him given of any debt 
having accrued due to Her Majesty, was obviously to include 
(amongst others) the very case suggested by the district judge, 
as it was preferable in conceding such summary powers to con- 
line the- exercise of them as far as practicable to one channel,* 
and to vest such extensive discretion in the principal executive* 
officer of the district, and those acting on liis behalf or authority,; 
rather than vest tlie same generally in the respective ofBcers o£ 
the various subordinate departments of the revenue. 






Plaintiff obtained judgment and defendant afjpealed, btft" 
before the case was heard in appeal, it was found thatthe^ 
evidence taken in the case and the judgment pronounced there^* 
oa by the district court had been abstracted from the reccfrd -^ 



in 

'%liefetlpo'n plaintiff moved for and obtained a fehciring of the " Supreme Cotirt 
•es^, vritb defendant's consent. Plaintiff was however non- Minutes" 
-united at the close of trial. 1844. 

On appeal, affirmed as follows, per Curiam^ (Oliphant, C. J.j -* 

"^rr and Stark, J. J.) !— 

After the abstraction of the evidence and judgment, tfad 
plaintiff moved the district court that the case may be re-fixed 
to hear evidence de novo, in which the defendant acquiesced, 
-land on the -day of trial both parties appeared, and evidence was 
adduced on both sides and judgment given. The court holds 
that such proceedings are tantamount to a new trial of the cas6 
with the consent of both parties, and will not disturb the judg- 
ment on the ground of judgment having already been given. 



No' 4 497 °^ ^' J ^^^<^<^y v« LeofUs^ Bee. Ift 

Per CttnaTO:-— The libel states that the plaintiffs were "seised 
'imd possessed as of their own property" of &c. These words 
are obscure, and lea^e the defendants in uncertainty whether 
tile plaintiffs set out right of property or possession only. This 
part of the libel must therefore be altered. The libel is also 
defective in not stating that the defendants ejected the plaintiffs 
frotti-the owiita. 

The court is further of opinion that the description " Maha 
Bandara watte" as explained by the assessors is not sufficiently 
definite and that the Owittes are not sufficiently described. The 
libel prays that the defendants be expelled and the plaintiffs 
placed in possession and there is not sufficient description to 
enable the fiscal to execute the decree of the court if it should 
be in favour of plaintiffs ; costs to stand over. 



No! 8 933 ^^ i Chinnetambtf v. Wennye, 

Per Curiam : — By the Ordinance No. 5 of 1 8 35 the Proclama 
tion of 23rd September 1799 is declared to be in force, in so far 
as ' that the Administration-o€ -justice and police within the 
' settlements then under the British dominion, and known by the 
*'■ designation of the Maritime Provinces^ should be exercised by 



Dec< 25. 



14 

^MapnmB Court ^ ftll conrU ac^ordiiig to the iaw« and iartilutioiui that luhMttl 
Minntes/' 'under the ancient Govenuiient of the United Ploviooee,' a&4 
JL&44. < these laws and institutions are hj the flaid Ordinaoce to oo^r 

— 'tinueinforoe^ subject/ &c. 

The Supreme Court has eTery reason to beliere that Hbj^ 
the kws and customs of the Tamib residing in Battioaloa, re* 
carding the rights of succession of property^ were ae^fr intet'- 
iered with by the courts of judicature under the Dutch i^vero^ 
meat ; and the special cuitoms of the Moquas an4 Wanmaif 
were recognized in a case at the Isat sessiona holder at Jaffnai 
without its erea being contended that thej weve abrogated* 



D«.28. ^Nolw 1 ^«'««'«^W^'«*^. 



Per Curiam : — The Supreme Court is of opimon dial A^ 
affidavit of Mr. Vanderspaar, which was the only one put in, 
is insufficient, inasmuch as it only stated ** that he doth rerily 
^* believe, and hath good grounds for believing, that the p^dntiff 
^' isiteudfl to leave the jurisdiction of the oourt,'*<^wher8Aa it 
ought to have set forth &cts indicative of such intenticm* 

The court is furthw of opinion that no authoritj hfM beeil 
cited^ and that no authority can be cited, to warrant the arratt 
ot a plaintiff, at the instance of a defendant, for the purpoee o| 
obliging him to give security for contingent and untaJMid 



i 



iw Aft ^'m'SSJI^' !• Diat^.Perera. 
1^ Dec. 9(X No. 35,800. j 

Per Curiam :— The court is of opimon that in an actioni 
of defloration, it does not appear, from the authorities dted that 
the plaintiff must make oath of previous virginity in order 

K to maintain the action, nor that the same must be alleged ia 

i theJibeL 

\ In the form in whidi this libel ia dn^wn, in which damageil^ 

i^re claimed for breach of promise of marriage, no oath could he 
admitted ^locprding to .the Engliab law of eriden^, and ooa- 
oetjiiently cannot he admitted in this island* 



It 



D. C.f Ch&w and Putlam, 
No. 7,521. 



} Calu Appu r. Saibq* 



Fir CSmam : — ^Two defendants each lent an equal mim to 
tlie plaiiitiffs, who received it in different amounts, and mortgaged 
the& tespectire premises in securitj. The bond* expressed that 
ihetsediton are to possess the lands as thej wished. Thej possess- 
ed by each taking a half, and possessing it separately. One o{ 
the creditors being in want of money received the sum advanced 
by him from the debtors, and put tne plaintiffs in possession ef 
the half. The other creditor entered and cultivated the half 
so given up, and maintained his right to to do. The Supreme 
Court is of opinion that he had no right to occtipy more than 
the half which he elected to possess, He advanced half the 
money, and he had a right to possess half the premises ; and the 
other creditor has a right to give up the possession of his share, 
OQ being paid his money, when he pleased. The judgment is 
therefore affirmed with costs. 



i«r< 



Per Cwriam :— -Set aside. Costs to stand over. Notice of 
amotion for a stay of proceedings until the ^intiff finds security 
for costs^ must be given to the plaintiff. It is not clear that the 
plftintiff , a native (S this island, residing in it, possessed of property 
tiithin ik, and having no intention to remove therefrom, can be 
Wlod on to find security for costs, on these grounds only, 
(«>c) that he does not live within the district in which the 
action is pending, and has no property therein. The plaintiff 
may have good grounds, and should have had time given him to 
ahow cause against such security being demanded. 



%a?;Sr^} Sim»y.BaiteUapaUra. 

Per Outiam :*-*The court has no power to cxrder surveys : 
i| ii is necessary for the proper understanding of a case, on thfi 
my of trial, that the plaintiff should have a chart or diagrai% 
aad a surveyor to explain the same as his witness^ and be aoi 
■o provided, the defendant will ^ther he absolved from tha 
iDstance^ or the plaintiff allowed another day to prove hia case, 
on payment of all ooetai Bat the court has no power to interfere 
by dismissing a case, because a party cannot pay the coots of 
survey ordered by ' the court. 



" Supreme Court 

Alinutes," 

1844. 



"Supreme Court 

H^inntes," 

1845. 

Feb. 4. 



April 14. 



1845. ' ... 

•— Oliphant, C. J., — If a suitor employe a prot^or, it is not 

July 9. expected that the suitor shall be present at the trial, and the ill- 

ness of the pro€tor, if known to the court at the time, is a good 
cause for postponing the trial on payment of the. costs of 
the day. 



WyU. .\C^.J^,^-.| SiOa^y .. Sinny. 



No. 4>517 

Per Cunam : — In this case the district court of Tenmoratchy. 
and Patchelapalle condemned the appellant, a proctor of that 
court, (who had reported that the plaintiff, a pauper, had a good 
cause of action,) to pay all the costs of this suit, excepting those ol 
one defendant, on the ground that, '' had he made the slightest 
** enquiry from the witnesses, or the most cursory examination o£ 
*^ the documents upon which the plaintiff founded her claim, he 
" would never have reported favorably for the plaintiff." ' At 
the time when the decree was made, (2nd September 1844,) the 
appellant was not proctor for the plaintiff, the latter having^ 
given a proxy to Mr. Williamsz on the 3 1st March, 1843^ 
Neither was the appellant in court or residing at Chavagacherrj, 
nor does he appear to have had any notice to attend the court 
when the judgment against him was pronounced ; nor, Sb far as 
appears on the proceedings, had he any notice of the judgment 
until the 27th of March 1845, and after the case had been 
transferred to the district court of Jaffna. On the next day, he 
showed cause why he should ' not pay the costs, but the district 
court of Jaffna held, that as he had not appealed against the 
judgment of the district court of Tenmoratchy and Patchela^ 
pallej it could not interfere, and that full effect should be ^veir 
to the judgment. The appellant appealed and the whole case 
was reserved for the consideration of Supreme Court at general 
sessions ; and the opinion of the Supreme Court was that there 
was nothing in any document filed which should have satisfied 
the appellant that the plaintiff had no good cause of action, and 
that it was impossible to conclude that the Avitnesses told the 
appellant the same story they did in court, and generally that 
there was not such gross negligence on the part of the appellant 
as to render him liable for the costs. And the court further- 
found that, at the time when judgment was given by the court 



If 

6 J Tervmoratchy and Patchelapalle, the appellant was not em- •* Supreme Court 
ployed in the case, and was not presumed to be in court or to M mutes, 

know anything of the judgment, and that therefore the judg- 1845. 

ment was not binding on him, and so far as regards him it 
should be reversed. 



* N 6 fififi I Jayewardenev, SeniiJderatnei July 11* 

In this case, the D. J. dismissed plaintiff's case and cast 
him in costs by decree dated the 26th August 1840. Defendant 
took no step for the recovery of the costs awarded by that 
judgment, until the 29th of November 1843, when, on the 
application of the defendant's proctor, it was ordered by the 
district court that the plaintiff do shew cause why a writ should 
not issue. The plaintiff contendsd that the debt had prescribed, 
it being, as he called it, a ^' book account," and the application 
for execution not having been made until after the lapse of 
three years. The district court ordered that execution should 
issue. 

On appeal, jo^r(7« nam: Affirmed. In^e Cens^ira Forenaie 
part 2, lib. 1, ch. 81. p. 142, it is laid down as one of thd 
t-equisites of a sentence — " ut aumptnum et expensarum condemn 
" ncUionem, aut compensationem continecU, Regular iter enim victus 
" victori in expensas judicia arbitno taxandas, et moderandas, 
" condemnari debtJ* It is also stated in Van Leeuwen's Institutes 
that the costs are part of the sentence, p. 631 et aeq. This is, 
therefore, no book debt between the plaintiff and the defendant, 
but a judgment debt which has not prescribed. With regard 
to the costs not having been taxed until after three years after 
the sentence, this does not affect the case, for the costs wer^ 
given by the judgment and the rule certam est quod certum 
reddi potest here applies. 



No' 8 262* I Weireman Vi Jayesondrak July 24, 

Per Curiam^ — The parties in this case brought an action 
jointly against one Theodoris de Silva Ameresinhe Aratchy in 
the district court of Galle, 3,879, and it was decreed therein, 
'^ that the case be dismissed, the plaintiffs paying the costs.'' A 
writ of execution was issued upon that judgment against both 



18 

" Suprome' Court the plaintiffs and one of them paid the whole costs, and after 
Hinutes, ' the lapse of three years, brought the present action to recover 
1845. iialf the amount so paid by him, from his co-plaintiff, the 

present defendant. The defendant pleaded the 5th and 6th 
clauses of the Ordinance No. 8 of 1834 in bar of the plaintiff's 
claim, and issue was joined on their applicability to the case. 
The district court held the plea of the defendant good, and the 
case having been bi ought before the Supreme Court on circuity 
by appeal, it was reserved for the opinion of the judges collec- 
tively, and argued before them at the general sessions. 

It has been urged before this court on the part of the res- 
pondent that the appellant was not in the former case liable to pay 
the whole of the costs, and that each of the co-plaintiffs in that 
case was by that judgment bound to pay only his share of those 
costs and no more. (Voet. lib. 4. tit. 1. s. 24.) ; that the pay- 
ment upon which the present action is founded was voluntary, 
and that therefore the case comes under the 5th clause of the 
Ordinance as either a " contract relating to moveable property,*' 
or " money lent without bond &c. ;" that monies and debts of 
this kind class under the head of " moveable property,** (Van. 
Leeuwen's Comm. p. 102., Swinburne On Wills, vol S, pp. 928, 
936) ; but it might even fall under the head of *' money 
lent," as the distinctions of " money paid," " laid out and ex- 
pended," ** had and received," are creatures of the English law, 
by which they would all class under the head muiimm ; that 
the appellant as the negotiomm gesior of the respondent, his co- 
plaintiff in the former case, paid money for him, and the trans- 
actions ought to be looked upon as a mutuum, (Yinnius Inst, 
lib. 8. tit. 17. p. 627) ; that there is a case similar in some 
respects to the present, and in which such a transaction has been, 
even by the English law, looked upon as a case of money lent, 
(Wade V. Wilson^ 1 East, 195) ; that the Ordinance, like the 
English Statutes of Limitation, which Imve been emphatically 
termed " Statutes of Repose" (2nd Chitty on Staty p. 697, in 
note,) ought to be liberally and beneficially expounded, and 
therefore ought to be considered to include cases of " money 
paid," " laid out and expended" &c., ('2nd Chitty on Stat, p. 
702, Blanchard on Limitations, p. 87) ; that the appellant had 
no cession of action, and has not therefore the same rights as 
the judgment creditor ; that without this cession he has proprio 
nomine an action pro mandati or pro socio ; (Yinnius lib. 8, tit. 
17. p. 627, Voet lib. 46. tit. 2, sect. 7, Pothier on OhligationSy 
vol. 1. p. 166 ;) and the judgment not being the basis of the 
present action, but only collateral evidence in support of it^ th« 
prescription of a judgment would not apply. 



19 

But tbis court is of opinion that altliougli tLe Dutcli law " Supreme Court 
may be as stated by the learned counsel for the respondent, yet Minutes, 
this court is bound by its decision of the 28th December 1837, 1845. 

in the Ambiangodde case No. 1,676,* and by the practice having 
been invariably such as stated therein. It is now established 
that when parties are condemned in cosfls generally, they are all 
liable singuli in solidnm, and it follows, therefore, that this was 
not a voluntary but a compulsory payment. The court is further 
of opinion that an argument cannot be maintained, as indeed 
none was offered, that the case comes under the 6th sec, and the 
only question has been whether it comes under the 5th. As the 
payment is held to have been a compulsory one, this action 
cannot be said to be for the recovery of "money lent." Neither 
is it found upon an unwritten " promise contract, bargain, or 
agreement relating to moveable property," and the only ques- 
tion which remains for consideration is whether it is an action " for 
any moveable property." The words " moveable property" 
must be construed in the limited sense of corporeal property, 
exclusive of choses in action. For, otherwise, after the words 
" moveable property" should have been inserted the words 
" except as aforesaid," to shew' that the 5th section was not re- 
pugnant to the two immediately preceding it, and which provide 
different terras of limitation for the moveables (taken in the wide 
sense of the word) therein mentioned. Neither can " moveables'* 
have been intended to comprehend money; for then there would 
have been no occasion to add the words "or to recover money 
lent." The court has no reason to suppose that under the 
term " moveable property," it was meant to include either actions 
to which a plaintiff had a right by cession or which he was 
entitled to bring eo nomine. 

Set aside and plaintiff to recover from the defendant the 
sum of £Q 158. Sfc?. and interest. 



n' 27^ } Sedemhranader Y, Sanger apnlle, c^ o 

Oliphant, C. J., — The country law either follows or concurs 
with the Dutch law in so far as, when interest is in arrear, and 
such arrear exceeds the principal, no more interest is allowed 
than the amount of the principal, that is to say, the principal 
must be paid, and a sum equal thereto as interest, but no mora. 



* See Morgan's Digest p. 203, par 54$, 



*' Supreme Court (It may be difficult to say upon what grounds such a rule was 
iMinutes," established ; it is unknown to the English law.) But when 
1845. interest is not in arrear, no such principle as has been recog- 

nized by the commissioner, obtains in the Dutch law, nor in the 
country law ; at least, the caso has never been attempted to be 
argued. Neither is therg any equity, so far as the judge can 
perceive before whom this case comes, in the principle. On the 
contrary, it is equity that every man should receive back the 
whole amount of the money he has lent, and a reasonable com- 
pensation for its use. Upon the principle adopted by the com- 
missioner, one who has lent say £100 at ten per cent for ten 
years, and who has regularly been paid £10 a year as interest, 
would not be entitled to demand his £100 at the end of the 
tenth year, because he had been paid that sum in the shape of 
interest. He has, thus, lent £100 for ten years, and is paid 
back by instalments of £10 a year, getting no compensation 
whatever for the use of his money. Is this equity? The same 
reasoning holds if interest should be paid far 30 years, in which 
time the lender would have received three times the amount of 
bis principal, as in the case in dispute. The lender is the party 
ynronged if he does not get £10 every year, and his principal 
when he calls up the bond. The defendants being absolved 
from the instance on this point, it is ordered that the judgment 
of the Court of Requests of Jaffna be set aside, and the case be 
decided on the general merits thereof. 



C. R., Neeombo, ) r - r-^ 

Sep. 23, No. 164. } L,eme y. Liem*. 

Oliphant, C. J., — The deed of sale expresses that the con- 
sideration had been received, and such expression is clear ar-d 
unambiguous. By the English law of evidence, made the law 
in this colony, the plaintiff is estopped from shewing that na 
money was paid. Phillips On Evid, ch. 7, sec: 4, edit. 1848, 
p. 351, vol, 2, 



Qot 31. 'j^^' 10 256 ^ I ^^^^^ ^' Fernando. 



Carr, J.,^-r-The proceedings in this case are remanded back to 
the district court to refer the petition to sue an appeal in formd 
j)auperi8 to the proctor in rotation, as described by the 43rd cl, 
^f the 1st sec, gf the General Rules and Orders of the Ist Qctobeir 



1S33. SucK reference ought to be always made to some proctor " Supreme Court 
who has no interest in the event of the suit, and who can act Minutes," 
independently between the parties. It is a public duty that he 1845. 

has to perform, and one which is imposed on him under the rules 
of court, to ensure the more effectual administration of justice 
between the parties, as whenever one party is improperly allow- 
ed to sue informd pauperis, he gains an undue advantage over 
the opposite party, and the litigants are thereby placed upon 
unequal terms. The proctor, therefore, who has been retained 
for the appellant throughout the case, ought never to be called 
on to discharge this duty, inasmuch as his services are retained 
in favor of his own client, and he may be compelled on such a 
reference to act against his own client, whilst he has also himself 
a personal interest in canning on the appeal, because, if the 
decree of the district court be thereupon reversed, he may recover 
his full costs from the opposite party, which he might despair of 
getting, otherwise from his client being a pauper. 



^•m •' S!^^' \ Fernando v. Fonseka. O'^t- 31. 

No. 10,866. ) 

Carr, J,, — According to the English law there cannot be a 
joint or mutual will, an instrument of such a nature being un- 
known to the testamentary law of that country. Williams On 
Executors y p. 9. But by the Dutch-Roman law married persons 
are accustomed to make a joint last will, which is called ^^ a 
mutual testament," and which, although contained in one paper, 
is held as two distinct wills, wherein each disposes of her 
property. Vander Linden, p. 129. Van Leeuwen, p. 223. The 
will of the deceased therefore ought to be proved. Case re- 
manded. District Court to grant probate upon will being 
established by evidence, or on failure thereof, to grant adminis^ 
tration. 



D. C, Colombo, ) rr I ij cf 

No ^6 701 f Tamoapulle v. Sanawiere, 

Per Curiam : — Opposition has been made to provisional 
judgment being granted in this case upon several grounds, the 
first of which is that the libel and summons were not so framed 
awB to entitle the plaintiff to proyisional judgment.. 



22 

Supreme Court The libel states in substance that the action arises upon 

Aiinutes," promises of the defendant unperformed, and narrates that the 
1845. defendant on a certain day accounted with the plaintiff for 

— moneys then due by him to the plaintiff ; that a balance o£ 

Dec. 6. £259 12«. was found due, which the defendant promised to 

/ pay on request ; that the defendant has not paid though re- 
quested ; and prays condemnation in the sum« The libel than 
calls on the defendant to confess or deny his signature " to the 
account hereunto annexed, marked Lr. A, and to show cause 
why he should not be condemned provisionally to pay to the 
plaintiff the said sum of £259 128. with legal interest thereon 
from the institution of this suit until payment in full." 

The summons requires the defendant to appear and answer 
to the cl&im of the plaintiff for the sum of £259 12«. due 
upon an account dated 10th August 1842. 

The answer makes no objection to the libel as being 
informal, or as not stating the cause of action <» with sufficient 
precision ; nor does it object that the summons is at variance 
with the libel as regards the cause of action, but pleads that the 
first item in the account due by the defendant was included in 
another account, made by the plaintiff, defendant, and other 
parties, their partners, and which he, the defendant, has settled, 
and that it was by mistake included in the account between 
the plaintiff and the defendant. The plaintiff in his replication 
denies the answer. The defendant admits his handwriting, and 
puts in an affidavit of a third party supporting his answer. 

The rule of court which relates to the form of libels, simply 
requires that the libel shall ptate the cause of action or complaint, 
as shortly as the nature of the case will admit, and the relief 
or remedy which the plaintiff seeks. Certainly the plaintiff 
has not strictly complied with the rule. He has not content- 
ed himself with stating that the defendant was indebted to 
him, accounted with him, and admitted a balance, and prayed 
that he, the defendant, might be condemned to pay the same ; 
but has unnecessarily stated that the defendant promised to pay 
the balance, and has stated such promise to be his cause o£ 
action. At the same time, the defendant may have made 
such promise, and such promise is, if proved, only additional 
evidence of the defendant's liability upon a prior obligation. 

The court will not turn a plaintiff round because his 
pleader uses words in the commencement of his libel which have a 
technical meaning in English pleading, but which convey no 
precise meaning to any person unacquainted with that mode 
of pleading. The court will reject as surplusage all that is 
said in the libel wiiicb has an aspect towards the £ngli«di 



23 

action of assumpsit, and let the libel stand upon the liability " Supreme Court 
of the defendant to pay that which was found and admitted Minutes/' 
to be due from him on an account taken. And in this view 1845. 

of the case no objection can be made to the summons which "" 

agrees with the essential part of the libel. The court comes 
to this conclusion the more readily, as the answer shows that 
the confusion in the libel has wrought no injury to the de- 
fendant in any way. As to that part of the libel which prays 
for provisional condemnation, the court is of opinion that the 
''said sum of £259 12«." must be takon to relate to that 
very sum mentioned in the former part of the libel which 
upon taki)ig the account was found to be due from the 
defendant to the plaintiff, and that the account Lr. A. is to be 
one and the same accounting, as the defendant does not deny in 
his answer that it is so. The court, therefore, holds that the 
first objection is not valid. 

2.^ — The next objection is that the account rendered and 
signed by the defendant is not a liquid instrument. Figures are 
erased and others substituted, in which case provision ought not 
to be granted. Wassenaar Jud, Pract p. 129 ; Sande^ bk. i.^ 
tit. 8, def. 3 ; Mascardus Const 1261. 

The court, on comparing all the authorities which treat of 
this point, comes to the conclusion that a vitium or defect^ 
whether blot, tearing of the paper, erasure, interlineation or the 
like, must be of considerable consequence, and impress the mind 
of the judge with a suspicion with reference to the important 
parts of the document. In the account in question, there are 
two erasures, neither of which occur in the debit side of the account 
embracing the items which express the causes of the debit ; not 
in the credit side of the account containing the items of dis^ 
charge, but a palpable error calculi had been made in the sum* 
ming up of the credit side, and which necessarily occasioned a 
corresponding error in the balance. These two errors were 
corrected, the figures, which correct addition and subtraction 
required, being written over the erroneous ones. Is this a defect 
of great consequence ? Does it impress the mind o£ the judge 
that the defendant is called upon to pay anything more than he 
admitted to be due ? Does it lay the plaintiff under any imputa- 
tion of fraud 7 Will it subserve the ends of equity (on which 
the whole system of provisional judgment is based) to turn the 
plaintiff round for miscomputation which can injure no one ? 
The court thinks not, and that the error is not material. The 
court is further opinion that the document contains the causd 
debiti, as expressed in every item of the debit side of the account. 

It may be further said that the writing is not in the form 



H 

"SapremeCoart and terms commonly employed in an obligatory instrument, and 

Mmutes, may therefore have been made as a memorandum for private usa 

1845. only, but, as h is produced by the creditor therein, it must be 

"~ ' presumed to have been intended to have been delivered; and 

moreover, by the answer it is admitted to be an account stated 

between the plaintiff and the defendant. 

3. — It is further objected that this document is an obliga- 
tion and cannot be received in evidence, not being duly stamped ; 
and that, if no obligation, provision cannot be granted. 

The court is of opinion that the document in question 
cannot be called an obligation, it is an admission of what is dud 
by the debtor at a certain date, upon a former obligation or 
obligations existing between himself and his creditor. The items 
in the accounts show a diversity of obligations : some may have 
been written contracts, other verbal agreements. But a mutual 
obligation lay on both parties to perform these obligations, 
totally independent of this document, which was not meant to 
abrogate them, and come in their place ; but is merely an admis- 
sion by the defendant that, at the date, the parties stood in such 
a position as to debit and credit upon their respective obligations. 
There is no word in the stamp act requiring a stamp on an 
account stated, nor an any document similar to the present. 
This account therefore does not require a stamp, and so is ad- 
missible evidence. But it is said a provisional claim can only 
be founded on an obligation, or on a merchant's accounts. Tha 
text books hold no such doctrine, unless where, sometimes, 
the word * obligation' is solely used as being the class on which 
provisions are most usually granted ; but it is clear that any 
other instrument signed by the debtor is sufficient. The ap- 
pendix to the Law Dictionary expressly uses the words — 
" an acknowledgment of the party." A receipt signed by the 
creditor is sufficient to prevent provision. A receipt is an 
admission of money paid. Surely an admission of money due 
should fall under the same rule. 

4. — The only remaining point for consideration is tbe 
effect of the affidavit of a third party which asserts that the 
large item in the account and which makes the whole balance 
against the defendant has been settled by another adjustment ot 
agreement, and should not figure in the account at all. 

The writers on Roman Dutch law are much divided 
on the admissibility of such evidence, and amongst those against 
it is Voet. The weight of authorities seem nearly equally 
balanced. Perhaps the sounder principle is to permit no other 
species of evidence in opposition to a provisional judgment, 
which is not allowed in support of it ] and^ if we consider the 



25 

facility with which affidavits can be procured in this island, *^ Supreme Court 
in support of any falsehood however gross, expediency demands Minutes," 
the rejection of parol testimony ; and the court, feeling itself 1845. 

at libei-ty under the authorities to reject affidavits altogether, • 

will do BO, at least when not more conclusive, and supported by 
stronger concurrent, circumstances, which carry a conviction of 
their truth to the mind, than occura in the present instance. 



N ' 'i-^fi^' I Abeyewardene y, Madvma. Dec. 23. 

Carr, J., — If the plaintiffs bond gives him a mortgage of 
a share of a field in lieu of interest, and the plaintiff has, 
thereunder possessed such share ever since, the bond is not pres- 
cribed, and the plaintiff may, notwithstanding the lapse of time, 
recover thereon in a suit in the district court, if he be advised to 
institute the same. 



N ' 10 277 ' I ^Julkadoowaive v. Hang Eitena, Dec. 24, 

Per Cvriam — In this case one individual claims chena 
land, situate Avithin the Kandyan Provinces, from another 
individual. The district court non>suited the plaintiff who 
admitted thi/t he neither held sannas, nor grant of any kind, 
and that no taxes or services had been paid or rendered for the 
same, conceiving that he was bound so to do under the 6th cL 
of the Ordinance No. 12 of 1840. 

l!he court is of opinion that the words in that clause '* all 
chenas &c. in the Kandyan Provinces shall be deemed to belong 
to the crown, and not to be the property of any private persem 
claiming the same against ihe crown," refer only to suits in which 
the crown is a party ; and such not being the case in the present 
action, the judgment must be set aside, and the case remanded 
to the district court to be proceeded with, — 

The Chief Justice doubting however, because, although 
the above reading is the most plain and obvious meaning of the 
words in question, still they will bea|- another more in accord- 
ance with the other parts of the 6th cl., viz : that '^ claiming the 
same against the crown'' need not be confined to suits in which 
the croM'n is a party, inasmuch as all lands in the Kandyiu 
Proviuces belonged to the King, uiiloss a grant or services were 



26 

^^SopremeCotiTt pToved, and therefore, in all cases there must be a virtual claim 
Minutes/' against the crown, the original proprietor of all lands. And be- 
1845. -cause, if the words are not taken in this last acceptation, chenas 

** in the Maritime Provinces are generally in all suitS| at all times, 

in all places, to be presumed the property of the crown, and, in 
the Kandyan Provinces, are to be deemed to belong to the crown 
only in a suit between the crown and a private party, which it 
can hardly be supposed was intended by the Legislature ; and 
further, in reference to the 11th section, it might happen that, 
a chena land in the Kandyan Provinces might, in a suit between 
two private parties, be decided upon a ten years prescriptive 
title to belong to one of them, and a headman present in court, 
and who heard evidence of an encroachment, would be liable to 
a fine, if he did not inform the Government Ag^t of suofa 
encroachment. In all probability, the worda '^ and not to be the 
property of any private person claiming the same against the 
crown" have crept into the Ordinance per incurtom. If we 
reject them, the whole of the parts of the 6jth d. are brought 
into accordance with each other. 

Judgment set aside and case remanded to be proceeded with. 



"""Cts?"^ '"no.'s'^S"'} Oandappar.Vanderetraaten. 
1846. 

-« Stark, J., — The Supreme Court having perused the record 

Aug. 16. in connected case No. 31,585 and .the evidence taken in the 

present case, is clearly of opinion, on the main question which 
arises here, that there has been on the part of the defendant, a 
culpable want of care and diligence in ascertaining the real 
facts of the case, in which he was employed by the plaintiff, 
and in preparing the evidence, pleadings, and appeal. 

It is of the greatest consequence to the character of the 
profession, the safety of the p^irties, and the due administration 
of justice to require of and ^m all proctors proper care in the 
business entrusted to them by their cHents, and more especially 
in cases where the clients are ignorant and illiterate ; and to 
afford full redress to injured parties, where any proctor is defi- 
cient in requiidte care. In respect, however, this is the first 
case of the kind here, the damages are modified. 

Plaintiff appellant to recover from defendant respondmit 
SIX pence as damages and all costs of suit including those in 
appeal. 



27 

n r« r^i/v,^v^ ) EdtnuTid OblUer, agent and attorney of '• Supreme Cbmrt 
tS"^' ^^f± t -ff- ^' Alhrecht, trading in Ceylon as C. Minutes/* 
no. 30,134. j ^^ Par/ir« and Co. v. Teagappa Chetty. 1S47- 

GoIli^'aftaboTe described, sought to recover from defendant Karch 25. 
£286. 19». Id, being balance remaining due to Parlett & Co., 
for the price and value of two Bengal Groi^emment bills of 
exchange sold and delivered by that fi^rm to defendant, on the 
22nd March 1841. The defendant pleaded in abatement another 
action (No. 3^,125) pending against him for the same claim, at 
the instance of F. Lambe, as the then foctor of CD. Parlett 
& Go. At the trial plaintiff admitted that the cause of action in 
the both cases was the same. 

It appeared that Lambe was for some time manager for C. 
D. Parlett & Co. The partners then were Albrecht in England, 
ftnd Parlett in Ceylon. When Parlett was temporally absent 
from the Island, Lambe did the business by procuration. After 
Parlett's death in March 1840, Albrecht, then in England, sent 
a power to Lambe authorizing him to wind up the a&irs of the 
£rm, and giving him the general superintendence and manage- 
ment of the new business to be carried on in Ceylon by Albrecht 
on his own account, as C. D. Parlett & Co.. The powei^ 
authorised Lambe {inter aiia) '^ to commence, prosecute, defend, 
discontinue, compromise and settle any actions suits or other 
legal proceedings," relating to the now firm, and to '^ use the 
,name of the said Henry James Albrecht for these purposes." 
Under this power Lambe acted, and in negotiating bills and 
managing odier transactions, Lambe signed C. D. Parlett & 
Co. Albrecht who came to Ceylon in January 1841 was present 
en 22nd March 1841 along with Lambe at the sale of the bills 
of exchange in question, which was for the behoof solely of C. 
D. P. & Co. and waa so entered in their books. The bills bord 
the endorsation C. D. Parlett & Co. 

On the 14th April thereafter, Lambe instituted, in his own 
individuaVname, the suit No. 33,125 against the present deft ; 
lio maation was made by Lambe in the Ubel of his constituents, 
C. D. P. & Co, although the proctor's original authority to 
institute that suit was a letter signed C. D. Parlett & Co, in the 
handwriting of Lambe. On the 11th May 1841, Lambe ceased 
to conduct, and Albrecht took the sole management of, the 
businesB. A letter was put in evidence dated 24th February,. 
1842 signed C. D. Parlett & Oo, addressed to the proctor who 
instituted the suit No. 33,125 ; it was in the handwriting of 
Thompson, the then agent of the firm, and after referring to this 
and other cases, proceeded : '* For these suits we request to 



2ft 

*' Supreme Coixrt receive fiom you a written acknowledgement that you consiflec 
Minutes/' youreelf as proceeding solely on our account, and that you under- 
1847. take to pay over to us such sums as you may receiive in respect 

of them." It did not appear what reply, if any, was made to 
this letter. Another letter was ofEered in evidence by plaintiff 
from Lambe to Albrecht, relating to the capacity in which 
Lambe acted for the firm ; but the I). J. rejected the evidence, 
on the ground that it was a private letter, and that Lambe and 
Albrecht might be colluding against the defendant. 

Judgment of the D, C. (29th July 1845,) " The defendant 
has pleaded in abatement that another suit was pending for the 
same cause when this action was commenced, wherein Frederick 
Lambe the then factor of C. D. P. & Co. was plaintiff. Upon thia 
plea issue is taken. It is admitted by plaintiff, (Collier,) that the 
cause of action is the same ; but it is contended, that although 
Lambe, the plaintiff in the former suit, was in the employ of the 
firm, it was not in such situation as to entitle him to maintain an 
action in his own name, as he has done ; and that, consequently 
the firm is not to be debarred from maintaining this action. 

" This must be held a good plea if Lambe did, when he com* 
menced the action, stand in such a relation to the firm as to 
entitle him to inaintain actions, in which the firm was concerned, 
in his own name. The point, therefore, for consideration is, 
whether Lambe did stand in such relation, and in order to 
ascertain this, let us see, first, whether he stood in such a relative 
position as to be {personally liable upon contracts entered into 
with him for the benefit of the firm. 

'^ It is quite clear that a party is personally responsible i£ 
be does not disclose the fact of his agency. (Story's Agency p. 
228.) But here ix, may be said that an agency was diRclosed as 
the bills were endorsed C. D. Parlett & Co. It is true that thia 
does disclose the fact of Lambe being an agent, but is it die* 
closed to whom he was such agent? — ^it being a well known fact 
that C. D. Parlett had been dead some years. But if « contract 
is entered into by an agent who is known to be such, and acting 
in that character, but the name of the principal is not disclosed, 
the same principle applies, and the agent is held responsible ; 
and until such disclosure, it cannot be supposed that the con- 
tracting party would have entered into a contract, exonerating 
the agent, and trusting to an unknown principal, who might be 
insolvent or incapable of binding himself (Stofy's Agency p. 229.) 

^^ I think therefore Lambe did stand in such a position as 
to make him personally liable upon contracts entered into by 
him on behalf of the said firm. 

** The next point then comes, whether he could sue in his 



9f) 

own unme. Now, in'-lependentlj of the principle that be who ** Supreme Court 
can be sued cad also sue, ou the same subject ; consideriDg that Minutes," 
the contract in this case, if such it may be called, was made 18*I7. 

with Ijambe for C. D. P. & Co., and that the name of Parlett is 
fictitious ; that the name of the real party concerned, namely 
Albrecht, does not appear throughout the transaction ; and more- 
over that he was not generally known to be the principal of the 
fii*ni, and did not usually reside in the island, I think that 
liambe could well institute the action No. 83,125, and that the 
plea pleaded in this suit must be held good. It is accordingly 
decreed that the defendant be absolved from the instance with 
costs. Assessors concur .'^ 

From this decision the plaintiff appealed on two grounds : 
(1) that the court below i ejected evidence whereby the true 
position of Lambe with rj. D. Parlett & Co. would have appeared, 
and (2) that a broker was not by law permitted to sue in his 
own name, and without reference to the name of his principal. 

Carr, C. J., — it is considered and adjudged that the decree 
of the D. C. of Colombo of the 29th July 1848, be amended by 
the plea being over-ruled with costs, and by its being ordered 
that the present suit, and the suit. No. 33, 1 25, be consolidated, 
when the court can, at the trial thereof, decide on the respective 
liabilities of the parties to pay the costs in such suit. 

The S. C. thinks that the plaintiff ought to have inter^ 
vened in the former suit, and that the relative rights of the 
parties could have been fully and well settled by the court \i\ioa 
the plaintiff's intervention therein, in lieu of his harassing the 
defendant with this separate suit ; so far, therefore, as the suit 
may appear to have wrongly occasioned further litigation and 
expense, the plaintiff should be made, on the iinal decree, to bear 
the costs thereof. The S. C* does not consider, on the facts 
disclosed, that Lambe can be considered as a factor, or as having 
any right in himself to institute the first action in his own name, 
nor can the 8. C. say how far the same was ratified by the letter 
from the plaintiff's attorney to Mr. Beling, (the proctor) with- 
out knomng what answer was sent to it. 

The whole case must be viewed in the nature of a bill of 
interpleader {Drinkwaterv. OoodxciUy Cowp. R. 251, 255), which 
is stated to be similar in some measure to the tertlus interveniens 
of the Civil Law, (Mad, 239,) and wherein the separate 
claimants can be compelled by the court to interplead, so that 
the court may adjudge to whom the debt is due, and the third 
persons applying for relief be indemnified and protected against 
their separate actions, if they have commenced the same," \_Mnrray9 
Reports, pp. 92—98.] 



no 

"Supreme Court D. C, Colombo, \ r- / ^ \ r^ • » - 
Uinutes," j^^ 1 1 TTg f Xir^a (mflfott?) v. Domingo Pens. 

1847. • » • J 

M h~ 25 ^^^ ^^ ^^^ instituted against defendant as executor of 

Bastian Fernando Lekame deceased, to recover the sum of £b, 
12«. 6(/. alleged to have been borrowed and received by the said 
B. F. Lekame, from the plaintiff's late husband, on a bond dated 
the 5th May 1832. The land mortgaged by the bond was to be 
possessed by mortgigee in lieu of interest ; and the bond con - 
tained a mutual stipulation not to foreclose, or redeem the 
mortgage till after the lapse of 5 years. It was alleged that the 
mortgagee entered into possession of the land on the executioa 
of the bond, and that after his death, which happened about two 
years subsequently, his widow, the plaintiff, continued, and was 
at the institution of the suit, in possession under the mortgage. 

The defendant denied the execution of the bond, and 
pleaded the 3rd cl. of the Prescriptive Ordinance, No. 8 of 1834* 

It appeared at the trial, from the examination of the plaintiff, 
that her husband's brother, who was living, was administrator 
of the deceased's estate, that the estate had been long wound up, 
and the accounts of the administrator closed. On this admission^ 
defendant moved that plaintiff be nonsuited, as the administra- 
tor was the proper party to bring the action ; but the D. J, 
over ruled this objection, and refused the motion. It also ap- 
peared, from the inv^itory of the estate lodged in court by the 
administrator, that the sum sued for in this action was not in- 
cluded therein, nor was there any reference whatever made to it* 
The plaintiff proved the bond and adduced evidence pf possessicMi 
of land as alleged* 

The D. J. pronounced the following judgement (19th October 
1846) :. '' The inventory file in the testamentary case No, 405, 
makes no allusion whatever to the mortgage in question, which 
the court presumed it would have done, had the amoimt been 
still really due at the time. The estate of plaintiff's late husband 
was closed in April 1848 in the late D. C. of Negombo, and she 
commenced this action in 1845. The evidence adduced being 
unsatisfactory, and the testimony of the witnesses as to the 
plaintiff's possession not altogether to be depended on, it ia 
decreed, the assessors concurring, that this case be disousaed.- 
Defendant is absolved from the instance with costs." 

The plaintiff appealed. 

Cabb, a. C. J.,— It is considered and adjudged that the 

decree of D. C. of Colombo be set aside . and the case remanded 

^ for re-hearing on further evidence, with liberty to the partieia to 



31 



amend their present lists of witnesses, and for the D. C. to gire 
judgment de novo. Costs to abide result. 

It has been urged bj appellant's counsel that on^ussiona 
in the inventories of administrators, are not unfrequent, and do 
not, accordingly, deserve the weight attached by the D. C. to the 
omission ; but in the present instance, the accounts of the 
administrator at least ought to have mentioned somewhere in 
them the mortgage, as the administrator has closed his accounts, 
and the plaintiff who is the widow of the intestate, alleged that 
the administrator delivered it (the land or mortgage) over to her 
at tha closing of the estate. The administrator ought therefore to 
be mad^ a witness, and examined to explain this omission. The 
plaintiff appears moreover to have made out a primd facie case 
to call for the defence, and the evidence in reply". — [^Murrai^s 
ReporU, pp. 84, 87.] 



tt 



Supreme Oooft 
Minntes," 
1847. 



D. C, Colombo, ) 
No. 10,442. f 



Fernando v. Fei*nando» 



March dO. 



Carr, a. C. J., — A preliminary objection was taken by the 
appellant's counsel, that the parties proceeded to trial and 
examined witnesses without any replication. The objection how- 
ever comes too late from the defendants. On reference to 
Mitford's Eq. plead, pp. 252 and 257, and Mad Ch, Pr. vol. 2, 
pp. 451 and 453, it is said, — '* A further answer is in every 
respect similar to, and indeed is considered as forming part of, 
the first answer ;" and '^ where hj mistake a replication had not 
been filed, and yet witnesses had been examined, the court per- 
mitted the replication to be filed nunc pro tunc." Blagdeu v. 
Cramlinglon, 16 Nov. 1787. Mosely 296. 

Plaintiff is herely allowed to file his replication nunc pro 
tunc to the amended answer. 

As regards the merits of the case, the defendants having 
admitted the delivery of the cattle and pleaded a sale thereof, 
which they have failed to prove, and plaintiff is entitled to have 
his cattle restored to him hj the defendants, or to recover their 
full value. 

Decree of the court below is amended and defendant ad- 
judged to return the cattle in question or else to pay them full 
value £18 15^. as claimed* 



32 

** Supreme Court D. C, Eatnapura, ) r t> u i ^i. 
Minutes," No 85. ! ^'' ^' Pahalawette. 

1847. 
7- Carr, A. C. J., — The practice in these caaoBi where the 

April 17. appointment of executor fails bj the sole executor appointed in 

the will dying before probate, is to require the will to b3 simi- 
larly proved as though probate were takeu of it hy the executors, 
and to grant administration with the will annexed to the residu- 
ary legatee or person es titled to the greatest interest under the 
will, who is preferred to the next of kin, and the representa ive 
of the residuary legatee has in such cases the same rig it to 
administratioD.' 

As the next of kin however has a prima focie ri '^t, the 
burthen of proof lies on the party claiming deriv. tively from a 
residuary legatee. See Williams' Executor 285. 
Case remanded for proof of will &c. 



D. C. Ratnapoora, I T,r ^. t /%• t 

\ 4. ^)^Q I Wattoohamy v. Dmgyhamy. 

Temple, J., — In law the instrument upon which the plain- 
tiff founds his action is illegal, and the conf ideration of it is 
ivhat the English Law calls champerty^ i. e. a bargain betweea 
the plaintiff and the defendant to divide the land sued for 
between them if they prevail at law. Whereupon the cham- 
pertor (or the plaintiff in the case) is to supply fimds to carry- 
on the other party's suit. If the defendant had, in this case, 
raised an objection to the transaction, or had appealed against 
the decision of the district court, this court would have declared 
the whole transaction illegal. But as it is, the plaintiff appeals 
against the judgment of the district court as incorrect on account 
of its being conditional and not decisive, and the defendant has 
not appealed against the decision at all, nor has any question 
been raised against the validity of the transaction. Under 
these circumstances, and considering that from anything which 
appears to the contrary the plaintiff hand fide lent the money, 
without having any improper or oppressive object in view, the 
Supreme Court does not feel justified in setting the whole 
transaction aside. The plaintiff, however, cannot be permitted 
to recover the land, but only the money which he lent to the 
defendant, with legal interost. 



83 



D. C, Kandy, I 

•j^j 2,690 > ICirty Ettena v. Heteregedere Appti. 

^''' 19;i72) 

The following is the judgment of the Supreme Court: — 
In a former* case, No. 69, the defendant's father sued the 
husband' of the present plaintifE, during coverture, for the 
lands which were the subject of the present action. In that 
suit the plaintiff's husband, (Selappoo) in his defence, set up a 
claim to the lands in bis own right, and independent of his 
wife, the present plaintiff. Selappoo failed in his defence, and 
the lands were decreed to the plaintiff in that case. In the 
present action, the plaintiff rested her claim entirely in her own 
right, and independent of her husband. The defendant pleads", 
tbe former judgment in case No. 69, with other grounds Oi 
defence. The district court found that the plaintiff had 
established a title by prescription ; but that the former judg- 
ment was binding against the present plaintiff, on the ground 
that, as she mig^t have been a party to that suit, the record 
was consequently in evidence against her, and iu support of this 
quoted Starkie^^60. 

By the Kandyan law, there is no permanent community of 
goods between husband and wife, and their respective estates 
remain distinct from eacb other. The husband in the former 
suit claimed the land as bis own, independent of his wife, and 
tbe title of the wife was in no way put in issue. The Supreme 
Court, therefore, considers that the present plaintiff is not bound 
by tbe judgment against her husband, and that she can maintain 
this action ; we agree with the court below that plaintiff has 
proved a prescriptive title. The judgment of the district court 
is set aside and the plaintiff decreed entitled to the lands. 



"/Supreme Court 

Minutes,'* 

1847. 

Dec. 14. 



D. C, Colombo, 
No. 36,718, 



> Pottooma Natchia v. Sinnachy, 



Carr, C. J., — The plaintiff claims his own share only, and 
although he demands in his libel more than he appears to be 
entitled to, he must recover upon it " according to his title." 
His being, therefore, entitled to less than claimed in the libel 
does not render it necessary for him to amend the latter, nor 
form any ground for non-suit, although it may subject him in 
gross instances to pay costs. In Doe d. Burgess v. Purvis^ 1 
Burr. 326, Lord Mansfield said,— " This is an exceedingly 
" plain case. The rule is undoubtedly right that the plaintiff 



" Supreme Court 

Minutes," 

1848. 

May 30. 



^^ Supreme Court <^ must recoTer according to his title. Here, she has demanded 
Minutes/' « hsM^ and she appears entitled to a third, and so much she 
1848. «t ought to recover." And this is so, whether the action be 

brought for an undivided, or a several and divided portion ; for 
the whole or a part. In Abbett v. Skinner, 1 Siderf. 229, where 
the declaration was for the fourth part of a fifth part, and the 
true title was only to one-third of one-fourth of a fifth-part, 
(which was only a third part of what was demanded), yet it was 
resolved that the verdict should be taken according to the title, 
and so if a plaintifiE demands in his libel 40 acres^ he may re- 
cover 20 if entitled to no more. 



^'No! 82 fe^' } ^^^ ^^^^^ ^- Edermanesingem, 

Cahr, C J., — The illness of an attesting witness, although 
he lies without hope of recovery, is not a sufficient ground for 
letting in evidence of his handwriting. Harrison v. Blcuiea, 8 
^'^m^^. 457. Even if the notary had been dead, it would not 
rave been sufficient to prove his handwriting, but one of the 
two attesting witnesses ought to have been called. CunUffe v. 
Sefton, 2 East 188, McCrew v. Gentry, 8 Camp. 282. 



No* 2 098^ ' I ^^^^^ *°^ others v. Alwis and others. 

The decree of the district court was reversed, and the case 
remanded for re-hearing, and judgment de novo, 

Carr, C. J., — The court is the more inclined to grant 
this iiidulgence, from its former order having been partially 
Tiiisiuntierstood ; as it certainly held therein that the plaintiffs 
:iist be taken to have closed their case from their conduct, 
li.cugli tbe more usual and the preferable course is to call upon 
t}.*e ! Liii.tifi; to state that he has closed his case, and fur the 
ju<ijj:(^ t.., make a minute of the plaintiff having done so, in his 
notes of the trial. The court also in the above order strictly 
confined its opinion to the points of practice, and was not called 
on, in any way, to express its view of the merits of the plaintiffs* 
case as it then stood, and certainly did not do so ; but being now 
called upon to state its opinion on the same, it must observe, 
that if the plaintiffs* case rested at present solely on their being 



admitted to be the heirs of the two daughters of Miguel Diss, ' Supreme Court 
the original proprietor, who died some time ago and does not MmnteA. 
appear on the pleadings to be the last person seised, the court lo4>5 

would now require the plaintiffs to adduce further evidence of ^ 

title before it ejected the defendants ; but as the defendants 
admit that Miguel Dias was entitled to one-fourth of the garden 
in dispute, and they claim the whole of that as haying been 
possessed and inherited from him by their father Dines Dias, 
and add that his " »sters'' (to whom the plaintiffs are the ad- 
mitted heirs) '< had their portions from other lands, and so wo 
have always possessed," the onus is clearly thrown on the d6« 
fendants to commence with their eyidence, and proye the division 
or advene possession by which their father thus acquired a right 
to his fiber's share in their paternal property. Nothing is more 
common in this country than for the eldest son of -i nitive 
family to continue in the possession of the paternal estate, 
allowing his brothers and sisters their shares as required ; and 
if he or his children set up an exclusive right .-igaiust the 
brother's or sister*s claim by inheritance to such estate, by virtue 
of an alleged division or partition between them or an adverse 
posBession, giving a title by prescription, he or those claiming 
under him, ought clearly to be called upon to prove the same 
in the first instance ; and any other course would in the opinion 
of this court be fraught with the most dangerous coosequences 
to existing rights of the natives in their family estates. 



Carr, 0. J.,— The proceedings are remanded back to require 
a fresh petition of appeal to be filed at the proctor's cost. The 
Supreme Court cannot receive any qualified signature of a proctor 
to the contents of a petition of appeal in the form a Jo^.te I in this 
instance, "drawn by me on the statement of the appall? i a.'* 
If a proctor conriders that he cannot conscientiou.slj, or with 
due regard to his professional character and respectability, sign 
a petition of appeal in the usual form, he should inform his 
client thereof, and that he was at liberty to get his grounds of 
appeal taken down by the secretary, 



*' Supreme Court D. C, Manaar, ) ^ 7 r rr T^r 1 m ^l 
Minutes," No! 2,051. } ^"^'^'"^ ^'^^^ ""• '^^'''^'^ ^'''^^' 

104:^. Oliphant, C. J., — If after judgment and before execution 

Dec 6 ^^® ^^ ^^^ ^^ more plaintiffs dies, the survivors may take out 

* ' execution in the names of all the plaintiffs ; or, if they please, 

may suggest the death of one of them on the record, and take 
out execution in the name of the survivors. 



" Supreme Court D. C, Colombo.) « c r- 

XZtes," No! 9,145. } Suppramaman y. Sophia. 

^ In this case, plaintiff's libel was headed as follows : 

Dec 7 Suppramanian Chett^, Agent ofNa. Satappa Chetty v. Sophia dc. 

Temple, J., — Case remanded. The Supreme Court con- 
siders that the plaintiff in this case does sue on his own behalf, 
and that the calling himself agent in the heading of the libel is but 
description and surplusage, and the Supreme Court further con- 
siders that though he has partners, he may sue in his own name. 
2 Williams* Executors^ 1,470 and cases there cited. 
Lloyd V. Archboldy 2 Taunton 324, 
Skinner v. Storks^ 4 B. & A. 437, 
Kell V. Namby, 10 B. & C. 21, 
Garrel v. Handley, 4 B. & C. (j^Q, 

" 'XnTe?"^ ""no: 6,24^'"' } ^^'^^ ^^^ ^ ^"^''^*-^- 

1852. Carr, J., — At the trial an application was made to post- 

pone the case on account of the first defendant's proctor being 
unable to attend through illness (which is always considered a 
sufficient cause for postponement in the district court of Colombo) ; 
but the motion was disallowed on the ground that, " there were 
proctoi 3. jr resent on both sides." The defendants, however, had 
severed in their answers, and appeared by different proctors. 
The affidavit also of the second defendant's proctor shews that 
he was quite unprepared to conduct the case of the first defend- 
ant, which was the most material in the cause. Under these circum- 
stauces, the appellants counsel has strongly lurged the justice of 
granting a new trial, and the Supreme Court has been the more 
inclined to allow it, from its considering that the witnesses of 
the plaintiff have not been fully examined, and that the proof 
of the plaintiff's deed is open to great suspicions, as it is not in 
ficcor dance with the Kandyan habits, that an old infirm lady 
of good family, and possessing property, would undertake a 
journey of some distance for such a purpose, without female 
'. It f^n dance. 



Dec. 29. 



?>-: 



D. C, Ratnapoora, I xr -j i. rr i i, '* Supreme Court 

No! 6,294. f N<^^dehamyy.Kaluhamy. ^nutee" 

1852. 

This case was remanded with liberty to the parties to file "" 

a survey of the premises indicating also the situation of the pit ^^* ^' 

from which the " great sapphire" was said to have been taken. 

Cabe, J., — The Supreme Court cannot view this case in 
the same light that the district court has done. It is clear that 
the parties have all been employed in searching for gems on the 
premises, and if the action were merely to recover damages for 
the waste done thereby to the field, in rendering it less fit for 
future cultivation, the Supreme Court would not interfere with 
the present judgment, looking to the evidence, that all the 
parties had been concerned in the digging of the pits. But this 
suit obviously has wholly originated from a different cause, 
viz. that a large sapphire of very unusual size has been found 
on the premises, which has been secreted and withheld from the 
other parties,' and evidence as to its value even has been sup- 
pressed. If this gem be a large sapphire of good colour, and 
without blemish, it must, from its great size, be of very consider- 
able, nay of immense value. The plaintiff's 8th witness deposes 
to its being as large as a pomegranate, or mandarin orange ; and 
the 9th witness says it is larger at one end than another,— larger 
than a fowl's eg'g. It is therefore not surprising that this suit 
should have originated, if the parties consider that they are 
joint proprietors of the land, where this unusual gem has been 
discovered, and are equally entitled to share in its value ; but 
at present the court cannot decide on the respective rights of 
the parties. The spot where the gem was found is not clearly 
pointed out, nor are the rights of the parties to such portion of 
the field, well ascertained. For instance, it seems the Mallaka 
and Gamegey families hold in tatto-maroo, but the plaintiff and 
first defendant are of the Mallaka family, and the second and 
third defendants are of the Gamegey family. Again, the old 
suits are between two of the Mallaka family. The tenure in 
tatto-maroo, moreover, gives only the right to cultivate the soil, 
and where separate portions are held in turn by parties in 
tatto-maroo, it is usuaUy owing to one portion being of larger 
extent, or more productive thui the other. Presuming, how- 
ever, that the parties are joint proprietors of the land, and hold 
in tatto-maroo, there is no proof of their right to gems found in 
the soil, having been transferred to each other by any notarial 
writing, or agreement between them. Moreover, it Is stated at 
the bar, that it can be shewn into whose hands this large gem 
passed ; if so, such persons (in whatever station they may be^ 



It 



Supreme Court can be^examined as witnesses. And the rule of evidence also is 

Miontes/' that " omnia premmuntur in odium spolioUoris" and where a 

1852. person of humble life found a large gem, a)id gave it to a 

— jeweller, who refused to deliver it back, or to produce it, the 

jury were told to presume, and give the value of a gem of the 

highest value of that size. Armory v. Delamerie^ 1 Str. 505. 

As to the royalty, it will be time enough to decide that 
right when Government comes forward to assert such a claim. 



" Supreme Court D. C, Colombo, ) «. . t> 7 
Minutes," No! U,888. } ^'^"^ ^' ^"^^^ 



1858. 
"T Per Curiam. — Defendant's petition of appeal cannot be 

April 9. received, unless he be allowed to appeal as a pauper in due 
course, when it may still be admitted. 

It has been decided in a. collective case at the second 
General Sessions of 1880 that a petition of appeal by a pauper 
cannot be entertained before the petitioner has made application 
to appeal in forma pauperis, which must be received and decided 
upon in the same way as those to sue or defend. Although a 
party may have a good ground to institute or defend an action 
as a pauper in the district court, it does not follow that he has 
a good cause for appeal, and the court ought to be satisfied 
thereof by the report of some other proctor than the one who 
has acted for the pauper, who might possibly favour an appeal 
for the mere chance of getting costs. 



D. C, Colombo, \ tr ^ n t 

May 23. No! 12,508. f J^oster y. Dr,eberg. 



This was an action for declaration of title to certain im- 
movable property, which the defendant, as executor of Mrs. 
Muller, claimed. 

It appeared that plaintiff, having mortgaged the property 
in question to one Mrs. Groos in 1826 left Colombo in 1880. 
In 1881 his surety under the bond, Muller (the husband of Mrs. 
Muller), pud the debt to Mrs. Groos and took possession 
of the title deeds of the property and of the property itself. 
He died in possession in 1889, having appointed his widow his 
executrix. He died in 1846, maldng defendant her executor. 
On defendant advertising the property for sale, plaintiff raised 
this action* 

Defendant pleaded prescription. 

The District Judge found for defendant. 



fit* 

On appeal, Dias for plaintifE appellant, Morgan for defend- "* Supreme Court 
ant respondent, the Supreme Court affirmed the decree ^f the Minutes/' 
court below. 1S53. 

The following is the judgment of the court :— * 

Oliphamt, C. J. and Stark, J : — Libel states that plain- 
ti£E is the owner and possessed of the premises, that defendant 
as executor of Mrs. Muller did in 1848 advertize premises to be 
sold and prays that premises be declared to be his. 

Answer states that testatrix was the owner and possessed 
of the premises until her death, when defendant entered as 
executor and claims prescription in testatrix. 

Replication states that testatrix was never owner of the 
premises and as such never possefrsed them and plaintifiE says 
premises are his by purchase and he mortgaged them 1826 
to Mrs. Groos for fifty two poimds and ten shillings 
and the husband of the testatrix was his security in the mort- 
gage bond. That in January 1831, the said husband as such 
security paid the debt. That about this time plaintiff went 
to Jafma leaving his &mily in the care of testatrix and husband, 
and in consideration thereof and on account of the interest of 
the money paid by the husband, plaintiff permitted him to 
possess the premises till plaintiff should have repaid the debt, 
which he is now ready to pay to the executor, that after the 
husband's death the testatrix continued in possession but not 
quiet nor uninterrupted nor by a title adverse and independent 
of the plaintiff and therefore there there is no prescription. 

Bejoinder states that title was adverse and independent 
&c., and therefore that there is prescription. 

Defendant is examined.-^Testratrix was mother4n*law of 
plaintiff. 1 advertized the house for sale, hence this suit. 
Admits the deed of sale marked A to Roster of the premises in 
question by one De Neys in 1825 — also the bond marked B 
dated 9th December 1826 from Koster to Mrs. Groos for £52 
lOtf. for which Muller and Beneaux are securities in solidum — 
admits also document C which is a pass dated 17th April 1880 
(Dgned by the Colonial Secretary for Roster to go to the Malabar 
coast. 

Muller died in 1889 and appointed his widow his executrix. 
He left two daughters, Mrs. Roster and Mrs. Beneaux. 

Testratrix possessed the property under the will during her 
life. The release marked G is from Beneaux and wife to the testa- 
trix of Mrs. Beneaux's paternal share of inheritance, in consider- 
ation of having made over to them premises in the Main street 
Pettah, but which seemed to be four times as extensive as the 
premises mortgaged and therefore not the premises in dispute. 



40 

'^Supreme Court In 1839 execution was issued from Jaffna against Roster's 

Minutes." property and the premises were seized. This the testatrix opposed 
1853. }yj letter F in which the premises are claimed by Mrs. Koster 

as belonging to the estate of her husband, she obtained injunc- 
tion to stay sale, and instituted the case No. 39,309 against the 
creditor who issued the writ, who was a widow woman at Jaffna 
and judgment was given in favor of Mr. Muller in default in 
April 1844. Testatrix died October 1846, this action instituted 
7th June 1S50. 

Plaintiff examined. — In 1830 left Colombo, put his wife 
a^d children under MuUer's care, returned to Colombo 1950. 
We parted in bad terms, when I left iji 1830, I left the house 
in charge of Muller, he to receive the rents paying certain inter- 
est, to give the rest to my family, this was verbal, Reneaux 
alone present. Whilst I was absent, I received nothing On ac- 
count of the house nor any acknowledgment of title. I owed 
Mrs. Schondorft about £43 for board, Mrs. Schondorft re-issued 
her writ against me after I returned to Colombo in 1831. 
Muller redeemed the mortgage at my request. I did not pay 
him nor did he give'me the title deeds I found them in a box &c. 

Reneaux says — Koster left the house in charge of Muller 
telling him to pay the interest out of the rents and give the 
rest to his family. Plaintiff told Muller to redeem the mort- 
gage if he could, and said he said he would. Then he admits 
that he swore that the house in dispute belonged to Muller in 
certain proceedings undermentioned, Mr. Stork produces edic- 
tile citation in May 1834 and application for certificate of quiet 
* possession andjcertificate was granted in January 1835. 

In the matter of proving the will of Mrs. Muller, Reneaux 
opposes and states that the premises in question belonged to the 
joint estate of Muller and his wife and applied for an injunction 
to prevent the sale of them and swore to the truth of the appli- 
cation (after this, Reneaux's evidence must be deemed worthless) 
and the plaintiff's admission that he was on bad terms with 
Muller at the time that he left for Jaffna is very unfavorable 
to his story as to his leaving the house in charge of his father- 
in-law and making a verbal arrangement at which Reneaux 
alone was present as to how the father-in-law was to apply the 
rent. 

The only act done by Muller from which acknowledgment 
of plaintiff's title could be inferred is his having paid off the 
mortgage in question but inasmuch as he was personally res- 
ponsible as securitv, he might have done so only to divert him- 
self of responsibility to the mortgagee. He took no transfer, 
there is simply a receipt endorsed on the bond and all his subse- 



41 

quent acts are clearly adverse to the plaintifTs claim ami a«isert- ^' Supreme Court 
ing title in himself. Minutes, • 

Cark, J., (dissenting) — I am of opinion that prescriptive pos- 1853. 

session has not been acquired by the defendant. 

The words of the Ordinance in defining the requisite posses^ 

sion are, if possession was accompanied by payment &c. *'or by 

'^ any other act by the possessor, from which an acknowledgment 

^' of a right existing in another person would fairly and naturally 

*' be inferred." 

Now the facts of the case, so far as they bear upon the 
point in question, are these. 

The property was purchased by the plainti£E Koster, his 
title deed of date 9th November 1825 being filed of record with 
his possession of titles, and was mortgaged by him to Mrs. Groos 
9th December 1826; at that date, Koster was unthuhtsd owTier, 
lie also continued to be so and at some subsequent time (but 
the date is not specified), on the hypothecation of the titles to 
Hesse, 28th May 1827, he declared himself the proprietor, and 
consented to Mrs. Thielman mortgaging the same and borrow- 
ing the sum therein mentioned. On the back of the deed which 
contains this declaration and consent to on the part of Koster, is 
the payment by the defendant MuUer to Hesse of the principal 
sum in the bond and the interest from 28th February 1830 to 
22nd January 1831, the date of the receipt. 

In April 1830 Koster went off to Jaffna, leaving his wife 
and children in Colombo where the propertv is situated, *' quite 
unprotected," according to the statement of the MuUers in their 
joint will of 2nd June 1 836, but according to Koster's statement, 
when examined as plaintiff in the district court, " under the 
protection'^ of Muller who was the wife's father, with whom, 
Koster further says, he left the house in charge by a verbal 
arrangement, to receive the rent, and after paying certain inter- 
est to give the rest to the family. 

There is reason to believe therefore that at his leaving 
Colombo in 1830 and up to 22nd January 1831, the date of 
Muller*8 payment of the bond, Koster was still acknowledged 
owner and in the constructive possession of the premises, and he 
gives an account of the origin of Muller'a possession which is 
perfectly credible, and at this stage at least, is uncontradicted. 

But now follow acts on the part of Muller to set up a title 
in himself. 

On the 31st May 1834 Muller appeared before the district 
court for an edictile citation and certificate of quiet possession, 

and in his application he stated that he was in the exclusive and 



42 

•** Sapreme Conrt uniniermpted f^Bseusion of the. property and Iiad been so for 

Minntes,^' about six years, the word six being written oyer nine whick id 

1858. erased; and that the same was Iob purchased porperty^ no date 

^ or deed of purchase however being specified or referred to nor 

any ayerment of bondfides. The value of the property is also 

stated at an inconsiderable snm by Muller in his proxy to Drie- 

berg at ihis time with £80, though the same property had been 

valued by the Surveyor Generars Department in 1825 at double 

that amount, and was bought by Roster that year at £67 10#. 

Muller's ground of claim was alleged purohaser : But in 
1889, when the property was seized by the fiscal, Mrs. Muller, 
then widow of Muller, wrote the fiscal claiming the house as 
belonging to the estate of her deceased husband " whose title 
'* (she mds) is a certificate of the late Provincial Court of 
" CSolombo and long possesion." And yet again on 17th Decem- 
ber 1840, when she applied for injunction to stay the sale of the 
property, she claimed die house as her late husband's '^ as the 
'' deponent verily believeth hy purchas^^ and set forth a joint 
possession of herself and her husband for ft period of about 
12 years. 

Moreover in her proxy to Drieberg to remove the fiscal's 
seizure 8th July 1848, this same property which had been stated 
. by Muller at half its real value, Mrs. Muller now when a title 
is supposed established in her states, is worth £800, which is 
double the value stated by Koster in his libel in the present 
action. 

Koster returned to Colombo in 1850; and the present 
action was raised 7th June that year. 

On the whole, therefore, I find in the circumstances of the 
case,, a total want of bond fides on the part of Muller, and acts 
done by him and his widow from which on the circumstances 
an acknowledgment of a right existing in another person njay 
fairly and naturally be inferred, which according to the 
Ordinance precludes prescriptive possession. 



Sep. 13. No! 15*092. } ^^^<^^<*^^ '^^ Sobita. 



Action to restrain defendant from ofiiciating in a certain 
temple. It appeared that one Dona Jebona gifted the land in 
1816 '' for the purpose of enjoying the produce thereof as San- 
gite (common property) by all priests resorting there from the 
four cardinal points and under the superiority of Groddegamma 



43 

Bttddhe Rakkitte Teroonanae," who in 18Sd built a temple ''Soprem* Court 
thereon, and officiated thereiii till his death, he being of the ^L^" " 
Stamese sect. Boih plaintiff and defendant were his pupils, but 1853. 

the latter though ordained as of his master's sect went over '~' 

about two years before aetion was brought to the Amerapoora sect. 
Much eridsnoe was taken as to the fact of pupilage of the par- 
ties and the court pronounced the following judgment : — 

*' I am of opinion that the plaintiff has no standing in 
court, and that there is nothing whatever to justify this court 
in granting the prayer of the libel. 

It is unnecessary to enter into the question which has been 
raised as to whether a priest seceding from the Siam to the 
Amerapoora sect would thereby forfeit his right to th^ incum- 
bency of a temple wherein religious rites were celebrated ac- 
cording to the Siam sect. This does not come legitimately be- 
fore the court looks at the deed upon which plaintiff fotmds his 
right and finds no mention whatever made therein of any tem- 
ple. It appears to be simply a gift of a certain garden in favor 
of priests &om all quarters of the globe with a view to their 
enjoying the produce of the fruit bearing trees standing 
thereon. 

According to the dear and manifest intention of the donor, 
such was to be the application of the produce and the priest 
appointed to take charge of the garden, I consider to have been 
so appointed simply in the light of a superintendent. 

The prayer, of the libel if granted would appear to be di- 
rectly opposed to the spirit and intention of the donor. As far 
as I understand, that intention was to devote this garden for the 
refreshment of all priests who might choose to resort theret«.\ 
and to adjudge a controul over the property in favor of one eecc 
to the exclusion of another would be, as I conceive, to defeac 
the clear intention of the donor. 

The building has been put up since that gift was made, 
and there is nothing before the court to justify it in decreeing 
that the plaintiff has acquired a prescriptive right thereto. 

The plaintiff is accordingly non-suited, parties bearing their 
own costs." 

The plaintiff appealed against the judgment. 

W. Morgan for appellant, E. Morgan tor r^spondanl. 

The Supreme Court delivered the following judginent. 

Set aside with costs, and it is decreed that the plaintiff 
being of the Siam sect, and pupil of the lateGroddegamma Buddhe 
Bakkitte Teroonanse, is entitled to succeed to hU right a.. 
superior of the temple and panaata in question with the lauds 
•i>elonging thereto,— and ho is accordingly decreed to be quieted 



44 

^'Supreme Court in the possession thereof and the defendant must pay the cost^ 

Minutes/' of this suit. The Supreme Court is of opinion that under the 

1858. deed of donation filed, the priests of the Siam sect only were 

— entitled to enjoy the premises, and that it would b» '* contra 

formam doni" for priests of Amerapoora sect to liold the same. 

Whatever right therefore the defendant might have had as a 

pupil of the late Goddegamma Buddhe Rakkitte Teroonanse he 

forfeited it by seceding from the Siam to the Amerapoora sect, 

and the plaintifE succeeded thereto, as his pupil of the Siam secti 



Oct. 21. ^"no.^'sO?'*'*' i ^""«'' ^- ^'"'^•«"<'"''- 



Per Curiam : — Set aside for irregularity. A district court 
has no power to grant injunction unless after libel delivered to 
the secretary of the court, which rule appears not to have been 
complied with in this case. The judge appears to have recei- 
ved the libel himself in chambers and to have granted an in- 
junction before the libel was duly filed. 



^ ^« I^' C., Mannar.) ,^. , t.^ i 

Oct. 29- ^^[ 4 324. f Mironde v. Markoe. 



In an action on a bond which carried '' two per cent" with- 
out more, the district judge decreed two per cent per mensem. 

On appeal, per Curiam : — The Supreme Court concurs with 
the judgxnent of the district court on the merits of the case. 
But as the bond specifies that the interest is to be at the rate of 
two per cent without adding whether per mensem or annum, the 
court cannot intend on this patent ambiguity either one or the 
other. The judgment is therefore altered into ^' that the de- 
fendant do pay to the plaintiff the sum of £6 with the legal 
interest due thereon, viz., nine per cent." 



Oct. 29. • •> ..yrft^*}- Dondricko y. Siman, 

Per Curiam : — Set aside and a new trial had. This is a 
question between a Mayoraal and a Yidahn Aratchy as to their 
relative rights in the Huwanderam perquisites — and it appears 

from the evidence, that in Tillages where there is a Vidahn 



4h 

Aratcbj as well as a Majoraal, the lluwanderam perquisite divides '" Supreme Court 
in different proportions between them. In the village in ques^ MinuteB,*' 
tion however, there has been till lately a Mayoraal only, and he 1843. 

hat drawn the whole. This circumstance which is the ground — 

of the decree of the district court does not settle the point in 
dispute, in-as-mUch as, 1st, it does not determine whether the 
appointment of the 1st defendant as Yidahu Aratchy had the 
effect of bestowing the right upon him to such officer's share of 
the perquisite, and 2ndly, it does not appear that the plaintiff 
as Mayoraal performed the duties of Vidahn Aratchy entitling 
him to the whole, for otherwise his exaction of the Vidahn 
Aratchy's share may, to that extent^ be a local usurpation 
on the part of the plaintiff. 



No! 6,32h ' j ^"^^'^ '^' ^^^^'^^PP^ Nayakar. Nor. 8. 

The information charged the prisoner with having entered 
the Kandyan Proviuces without a written permission for that 
purpose, he being a relation by affinity of the late Rajah Sri 
Wickrame Hajah Singha. 2nd count — that he being a male 
person of the Malabar caste, who was expelled from the Kandyan 
Provinces in 1815, unlawfully returned thereto without a writ- 
ten permission. 

The charge was laid under the (3rd sec. of the proclama- 
tion of 2nd March 1818.) 

After hearing evidence, the district court gave the following 
judgment: — 

*' The prisoner stands charged under the provisions of the 
3rd section of the proclamation of the 2nd March 1815, which 
still continues in force. It declares '^ That all male persons 
being, or pretending to be relations of the late Rajah Sri Wick- 
rame Rajah Singha either by affinity or blood, and whether in 
the ascending, descending or collateral line, are hereby declared 
enemies to the Government of the Kandyan Provinces and ex- 
cluded and prohibited from entering those Provinces on any 
pretence whatever, without a written permission for that purpose 
by the authority of the British Government under the pains and 
penalties of martial law, which is hereby declared to be in force 
for that purpose, and all male persons of the Malabar caste now 
expelled from the said provinces are under the Fame penalties 
prohibited from returning except with the permission being 
mentioned." By the charter of the 18th February 1833, abolish- 
ing all subordinate courts thf'n existing within the colony, excln- 



4fi 

^' Supreme Court sive jurisdiction in all crimiQal matteirs^ aave certain exceptions. 
Minutes," is under the ith and 25th sections, vested under the district 
1853. court, which has therefore succeeded to all the functions, 

whether judicial or otherwise, preriously exercised by all other 
courts both in the maritime and central provinces of this island. 
Now under this proclamation the offence with which the prisoner 
is charged being declared criminal, this court is consequently, in 
its opinion, to all intents and purposes, fully competent to enter- 
tain the case. 

" The charge is, not only by the evidence adduced for the 
prosecution, but by the prisoner's own admission, fully proved. 

^' It is ordered that the prisoner do enter into recognizances 
himself in £100, and two sureties in £50 each, to quit the 
Kandyan Provinces forthwith — in default to be imprisoned, such 
imprisonment not to exceed twelve calender months on the whole." 

Against this judgment an appeal was taken. Morgan for 
appellant, and the D, Q. A, for respondent. 

The court delivered the following judgment : — 

On the 2nd March 1845) a proclamation was issued by the 
Governor proclaiming that it was agreed and established by 
the said Governor, acting on the part of his sovereign on 
the one part, and the A<Mgars, Dissaves and other principal 
chiefs of the Kandyan Provinces on behalf of the inhabitants 
on the other, amongst other things by cl. 3. 

^' That all male persons being or pretending to be relations 
of the late Rajah Sri Wickrame Rajah Singha either by affinity 
or blood, and whether in the ascending, descending or collateral 
line, are hereby declared enemies to the Government of the 
Kandyan Provinces and excluded and prohibited from entering 
those provinces on any pretence whatever without a written 
permission for that purpose by the authority of the British 
Government, under the pains and penalties of martial law which 
is hereby declared to be in force for that purpose, and all male 
persons of the Malabar caste now expelled from the said provin- 
ces are under the same penalties j»'ohibited from returning ex- 
cept with the permission before mentioned.** 

But no court is specified where persons ojSending against 
the said 3rd clause are to be tried, but as the infliction of the 
pains and penalties of martial law is the punishment provided, 
and as it has not been shewn that any court has the powdr of 
inflicting such pains and penalties, the Supreme Court con- 
cludes that offending parties were to be tried by some {nroceed^ 
ing under martial law. The Charter of 1833 recites the oourts 
existing at its date which were by the said charter abolished, 
but necessarily makes no mention of courts martial which coo!^ 



47 

not thereby be abolished, as thej are continued from year to ^' Supreme Court 
year by Acts of Parliament— neither has it been shown that Minutes," 
any court named in the charter, and to which the district courts 1853. 

succeeded by the charter, had power to inflict the pains and — 

penalties of martial law. 

2. — ^Neither by the charter nor by any ordinance is power 
given to district courts to inflict the pains and penalties of 
martial law. 

3. — There is no evidence to establish the second count 
whatever and the proof does not sustain the allegation on the 
first count that defendant is related by affinity to l£e late King. 

Conviction and sentence set aside. 



No* 21*663' I '^*% '^' ^^rnandok • Dec. 3. 

Per Ctinom,*— The order of the district court is affirmed 
with costs. The defendant is in gaol under an execution issued 
in this case for the payment of a crown debt, and he seeks to 
obtain his discharge therefrom under the provisions of the 
Insolvent Ordinance No. 6 of 1835. His counsel (Mr. Adv. 
Hichard Morgan) has raised two points for the consideration of 
the court. Ist.— That the defendant is entitled to be discharged 
under the Insolvent Act from this execution for the crown's 
debt. 2nd. — That if he is not so entitled to be released from 
such execution, he can nevertheless apply in this suit, to take 
the benefit of the Insolvent Ordinance against the claims of 
other creditors. 

On the first point the court considers, that the crown not 
being expressly named in the Insolvent Ordinance, is not bound 
thereby, although it may (if it think fit) avail itself of the pro- 
visions of that Ordinance, and a previous collective decision has 
been cited in support of this view. The court decides accord- 
ingly that the defendant is not entitled to be discharged from 
this execution for the crown's debt under the Insolvent 
Ordinance. 

On the second point, it seems clear that the proceedings 
contemplated by that Ordinance are for the release of prisoners 
confined for any debt, from which they can be discharged, or 
take the benefit of the Ordinance ; as the 4 1st clause declares 
that ''the prisoner shall be immediately discharged from custody, 
** and shall be no more liable to arrest for the debt for which 
'^ he or she shall have been so in execution." The court must 
conform to the Ordinance in this respect, and cannot grant a 



48 

** Supreme Court discharge in any other form, or qualified manner, as save and 
Minutes," excepting certain debts specified therein. The present proceed- 
1853. ijjgg moreover can never be viewed as wholly separate and dis- 

tinct from the original suit of the crown, as contended for, 
because the application made by the defendant is for his dis- 
charge from the execution in that suit, and the district court 
thereon is called upon to make an order for that purpose, which 
this court considers it ought not to be in this case any more, 
than if it were applied to, to make such order on any proceed- 
ing wherein the prisoner was in custody for not paying any 
fine, penalty, forfeiture or recognizance under the Fine Ordi- 
nance No. 11 of 1844 or on any criminal process, from which 
they could not be discharged under the Insolvent Ordinance. 

It does not appear that the defendant is also detained in 
execution at the suit of any private creditors, but if he was so, 
there is nothing to preclude him from obtaining now the benefit 
of the Insolvent Onlinance in any auch suit, as it would not 
extend to the debt of the crown, which being no party thereto 
could not be a£Eected by such proceedings, even if the cro>m*s 
debt were named in the statement of debts by the prisoner. 



D c 23 ^' ^*» C^^®°^^Oj \ I^ r® Warren deceased. O'Halloran v. 

No, 1,046, J Reyne and others. 

Per Curiam : — The order of the district court is set aside, 
and the administration granted to Mr. O'Halloran is revoked 
without costs. 

The deceased Captain Warren was the paymaster of the 
Ceylon Rifie Begiment and died in Colombo on the 23rd Decem- 
ber 1851, and administration of his estate was applied for on 
the 29th December 1851 by Mr. 0*Halloran and granted to him 
on the ISth January 1852 under the 7th Rule of the General 
Rules and Orders of Court, which authorizes the district court to 
grant administration to the Secretary of the Court, or suchother 
person as the District Judge shall appoint, when there is no 
will nor widow nor next of kin appearing on citation; and Mr. 
0*Halloran was properly selected, for the reasons stated by the 
district judge, to act as administrator under such circumstances 
in the colony, provided that the court did not in such grant of 
administration to him not being the heir or next of kin, contra- 
vene the provisions of the Act of Parliament of the 6th Geo. 
IV. c. 61 which after reciting previous acts, and that the trans- 
mission to regimental agents of the effects of officers and soldiers 



41» 

dying in service had been found highly beneficial in securing an 'Supreme Court 

early distribution of such efEects amongst the relations at small Minutes, 

expense, and many sums were thereby saved to the relations l^t^o. 

which would otherwise be from their small amount wholly lost, ^ L^ 

and that it was expedient to render the provisions relating to ^^* 

such matters more e£Eectual. It was thereby enacted that all 

officers and persons authorized under the articles of war are to 

take care of or collect the effects of officers or soldiers dying in 

service out of the United Kingdom, and to ask, demand, and 

receive the same, and commence actions and suits for the 

recovery thereof without taking out letters of administration in 

like manner and in every respect, as if they had been appointed 

executors or had taken out letters of administration of such 

effects; and no registrar of any court in the East Indies or in any 

colony shall in any manner interpose in relation to any such 

effects, unless required or authorized so to do by any such officer 

or persons under the provisions of the act. By the 3nd clause 

of the act also, effects remitted are not to be deemed assets so 

as to render administration necessary unless there be other effects 

of the deceased in the province which require it. 

By the 30th article of sec. 1 of the articles of war, when 
any officer shall die in the service, the major of the regiment 
shall immediately- secure all the effects of the deceased within 
the colony, and shall within one month after the death of the 
officer, with the assistance of two other officers not under the 
rank of captain to be appointed by the commanding officer of the 
regiment, make any inventory thereof, and after payment of the 
regimental debts and quarters, place the balance in the hands of 
the paymaster to be by him paid to the heirs or legal represen- 
tatives of such deceased officer, if present at head quarters, upon 
the production however, if the amount be £50 or upwards, of 
the probate of the will, or of letters of administration ; and a 
report thereof, with a copy of the inventory and an account of 
the debts and credits, shall be sent to the secretary at war, and 
if there be no heir present, then the inventory and the said 
account shall be sent to the secretary at war, and the paymaster 
shall credit the balance in the next regimental pay list. It ap- 
pears to us that the provisions of the act were fully intended to 
exclude official administrators from interposing, unless required 
as above. And the court can under our rules regard the ap- 
pointment of Mr. O'Halloran as administrator instead of the 
secretary of the court in no other light. Moreover, if any 
letters of administration in this colony were required to be 
granted by the district court, they should have been limited to 
domand and receive over the balance in the hands of the pay- 



..(» 



*' Supreme Court master and to administor the same, and pay the remaining debts 
Mmutes," Qf ^he deceased; and if letters of administration were not re- 
looo. quired to be granted here, then a considerable expense would be 

saved to the estate in repect of the costs for stamps, appraise- 
ment, inventory, collection and remittance of the effects by 
conforming to the provisions of the act. Upon these grounds, 
the Supreme Court considers that the letters of administration 
have been improperly granted to Mr. O'Halloran and must be 
revoked as being contrary to the provisions of the Act of Parlia- 
ment and the articles of war; but it does so reluctantly, look- 
ing to the peculiar circumstances of Mr. 0*Halloran's position, 
who appears to have acted throughout from friendly motives 
towards the deceased, and to have incurred considerable expense 
and trouble in this grant of administration to him. Whilst on the 
other hand, the appellants appear to have been very remiss (as 
they possessed full power under the Act of Parliament to de- 
mand, sue for, and recover the effects of the deceased) in not 
taking any step to urge their claim against this administration 
until ten month after his death. Nor has it ever been shewn 
in these proceedings what was the date of their appointment by 
Lt. Col. Braybrooke, or that they had done anything to secure 
the effects of the deceased, or made any inventory thereof as 
required. 

Dec. 23. The Queen v. Abe and another. 

The prisoners in this case were convicted of arson, but 
sentence was reserved pending the consideration by the collective 
court of the question to what punishment the prisoners were 
liable under cl. 3 of the Ordinance No. 6 of 1846. 

The Queen's Advocate for the crown was heard. 
Per Curiam: {St&rke, J.^ dubitante): — 

The sentence on the prisoners must under the Ordinance 
include corporal punishment with transportation or imprisonment. 

Starke, J., — I consider that where an Ordinance declares 
that a party guilty of an offence shall be liable to two or 
more pimishments named, such liability is in the nature of a 
maximum of punishment, and it is in the discretion of the 
court according to the circumstances of the case, to award 
one of the punishments only; and that an award of both, 
or all the punishments in all cases, is not imperative, and 
would it was conceived be against the object and purpose of the 
provisions of the due distribution of pnnisbmont acoordinL^ to 
thp nature of the trinie or offence. 



C. k.. Poiut PeJroe. 1 , . , . ,. " Supreme Court 

No. 1,269. i ^^^'''"'' ''• Valtnppen, Minutes, 



\^ *S c A'?^ !• Meera Lehbe v. Sinne Lebbe. 
iMo. J 5,97/ j 

P^r Curiam, — It is very desirable in all cases where boun- 
daries of land are in dispute between the parties, that they should 
acquiesce in having a joint survey made in the presence of the 
parties and their respective witnesses, but the court cannot 
compel an unwilling party to join in any such survey or com - 
mission. 



1854/ 



Per Curiam, — The petition of appeal must be rejected as — 

by the 12th cl. of the Ordinance No, 19 of 1852, the required ^®^- ^• 

stamps cannot be annexed to it. And the order of the Supreme 
Court of the 18th day of October 1853 must be cancelled 
quia improvide emanavit. The petitions presented are not good 
useful or available in law or equity under the 5th clause of 
the above Ordinance, owing to their not being duly stamped and 
the court has no power to grant to any party the indulgence of 
filing a fresh petition after the time prescribed by the oidinanoe 
has elapped. 



May 12. 



D. C, Ratnapoora, ) l^ -, /- xr j j i.T- 

f^ a Aoa c Aanae v. Airy Naide and another. , _ 

ISo. 6,436. j ^ June 5. 

Ter CuriaMy — The decree of the district court is set aside 
and the case remanded back to be proceeded with and judgment 
to be given ds novo. The costs are to abide the result. 

Although a priest, if he has lay brothers and sisters, can 
have no claim to his father's land, but by special gift or bequest, 
yet if he be the only child, the Supreme Court has held that he 
has a right to inherit his father's lands in preference to collateral 
heirs. The rule is not general that a priest cannot acquire or 
inherit land, and that to take the robe is to resign all worldly 
wealth, as has been stated, because a priest may at all times 
acquire land from any one by gift, beqijest or purchase, and 
may inherit his brother's or sister's estate. 



:y2 



*^ Supreme Court D. C, Jaffna, 1 n ;• n ^^ 

Minutes," Xo G 123 J R^inalmger v. Cadiramer 

1845. 

"" Fer Cimam, — The decree of the district court is set aside 

June 21. y^ith costs and the case remanded back to be proceeded with. 

The plaintiff states in his libel that his late father erected 
the temple, that he succeeded him as priest and prays to be 
restored to the office of priest. This the first defendant denies 
in bis answer and alleges that he is owner of the temple which 
the plaintiff denies in the replication. The principal question 
therefore in issue is whether plaintiff or defendant is owner of 
the temple and the plaintiff should first call evidence. 



Ju.ie 29. ^-jf^; f^^ll' \ Parson v. Selln,. 

This was a case of libel between two members of an insti- 
tution called the Ceylon With. Selby, the defendant, affixed to 
the walls of that club a placard in which he declared that 
Parsons (the plaintiff) was a liar. Thereupon the committee 
of the club, at the instance of Parsons, called upon Selby to 
explain his conduct. He replied as follows : — 

'' I accuse Parsons of being a liar, in having denied that he 
was present when a certain letter which appeared in the Colombo 
Observer signed X Y Z was written, and in having stated that 
he was not fully aware of the contents of that letter, until he 
saw it in the said newspaper, whereas, in truth and fact, he was 
present when the said letter was written and was fully cognizant 
of its contents," 

At the close of the enquiry which followed this letter, the 
committee were unable to arrive at a decision. 

Parsons now came into court and based his action for 
damages upon the above letter. 

Defendant pleaded (1) not guilty, (2) justification, in that 
he had written the letter in question only in reply t.o the 
secretary of the committee, and (3) truth, viz that plaintiff 
is a liar. 

The learned district judge found that plaintiff and defend- 
ant were equally concerned in the writing and publishing of the 
letter signed X T Z, and that plaintiff was wrong in denying 
the part he had taken in the transaction. The district judge 
non- suited plaintiff with costs. 






On appeal, tlio Supreme Court (CAhii, C. J. and Tkmim k, '• Suj umihm'c ml 
J.) set aside the decree of the court below and entered judg- MinutoH." 

ment for plaintiff to recover from the defendant one poUTKl i«Sf)4. 

sterling as damages and his costs in the district court, but each 
party to bear their own costs of appeal. 

The Supreme Court considers that the defendant has failed 
to prove that the defendant's letter to the secretary of the 
Kandy Club was a privileged communication, the defendant 
having originated the statement repeated in that letter which 
formed the ground of this action ; see Smith v. Mathews^ 1 M. 
Rob. 151 and Griffiths v. Lewis, 7 Q. B. 61, and without enter- 
ing upon the question whether truth has been proved or not, 
which this court would have some difficulty in deciding upon 
the conflicting evidence adduced, the Supreme Court considers 
that the defendant could not in this case, arising as it does in 
Kandy, justify the publication on which the action is brought, 
upon the ground of bare truth, as the court must also look to 
see whether the publication was warranted by the occasion and the 
mode and circumstances; which in its view it certainly was not. 



D. C, Trincomalee, ) „ m xr ^r i i 

No. 7 725. \ RawooterM.JSi ether sahib, June 29. 

Per Curiam : — If a party is improperly allowed to sue as 
a pauper, he gains thereby an undue advantage in the suit over 
the opposite party, and the court is bound to guard against the 
same; any proctor therefore selected to report on a pauper having 
a cause of action, should always be independent of the suit, and 
never be liable to favor the application in the hoj)es of 'having 
the conduct of the pauper's case. 

Wherever therefore the same proctor is subse(juently re- 
tained by the pauper on the application being allowed, the coui t 
should on the motion of the opposite party refer it to another 
proctor to report whether the pauper has a good cause of action 
or not in the suit. 



'■hj' ao At*ai Mnttaw, Menika, June 29, 

No. 23,466. 1 

Per Oiiriam, — When prescription once begins to run, it 
continues to do so, notwithstanding any subsequent disability, 
so that on the death of a person in whose life, the time first 
began to run, his heir must enter within the residue of the 
ten years, although he laboured under a disability at the death of 
his ancestor. Gotterell v, Dutton, 4 Taunton 826, and 1 Chitty 
Gen. Prac. 754. 



:.4 

=' Supreme Cuui I I). C. (iaile, ( „, , ., ., ,. .,., 

Minutes, No. li>,/ <9. ) 

1854. 
— This case was remanded for a new trial in these terms: — 

July 5. The Supreme Court considers that plaintiff did begin, but 

rested his case upon the admissions of the defendant in the 
answer and examination and the written documents adduced. 

The receipt, being only a prima facie acknowledgment that 
the money was paid, was liable to be contradicted and explained. 
Gf'aves v. Ket/f 3 B. and Ad. 818. And the defendant having 
adduced evidence for that purpose, the plaintiff was clearly 
entitled to call evidence to rebut the same without defendant's 
having a right to reply. 



July 5. "\V' ,l^f^''"^' i ,\fendav.h-inBamla. 

xSo. 14,311. } 



Per Giiriairiy — Plaintiff is entitled to recover one half of 
her father's lands, as being the only child by his first marriage, 
although given out in deega by him, and the other half of the 
father's lands devolves on the children by his second marriage. 
The above rule of inheritence has been acted on in several cased, 
following a collective decision on the point. D. C. Kandy, 
No. !^0,898. I). ('. Matale, No. 3,574. 1). C. Kandy North, 

No. }.y»:r^. 



I , .(^ 1). C, Kurunegala, 1 3/edankara Unanse v. Ilahgomua 

"' ^" No. 12,911, ./ Unanse. 

Per Curiam (Carr, C. J. and Temple, J.) : — 
It has been urged by the appellant's counsel that the 
defendant (appt.) had upon the evidence a prescriptive title to 
tlie temple in dispute from adverse possession thereof by his 
preceptor and himself for 10 years previous to the bringing of 
this case, — which was a new action and not a continuance of 
the former one — but the decisions of this court mentioned in 
*Sir Charles Marshall's Digest, tit Prescription^ pai*a. 3 and 9, 
shew that the possession required by the Ordinance must be 
undisturbed and uninterrupted and by adverse title, viz " un- 
accompanied by payment of rent or produce or performance of 
Hervice or duty or by any other act by the possessor from which 
an at'knowleH^ment of a ripht i^xistinp: in another {»erson W(»ul(i 



.>.t 



fairlj and naturally be inferred." And this court has accord- " Su|>iemo Court 
ingly held, where the possession under which a party claims a Minutes," 
prescriptive title has ineffectively been "contested," that this 1854. 

contest would nevertheless be an interruption or disturbance to — 

defeat the claim of prescription. Thus a claim before, and 
award by, a gansabawe, which was not submitted to, or the 
commencement of an action in the usual way have been held 
sufficient to bar a title by prescription. The case of S7niih v. 
Bowzer, 3 T. R. 662 and 3 Burge 23, have been cited for the 
appellant, and an actual entry also would be necessary to dis- 
turb the possession and to prevent the operation of the Statute 
of Limitation. Dougl. 485, n. 1 and 1 Sauud. 319 e. But 
this court under the Koman Dutch law adheres to the former 
decisions, as constructive or civil interruption is effected by 
litis contestatio or by vocatio in fas, and even by a complaint or 
protestation duly made, when on account of the absence of the 
adversary a litis contestatio cannot be interposed. 3 Hurge 24, 
25, 26. Voetlib. 41, tit. 3, n. 19,20,21. And it is essential 
to a title by prescription that the party claiming should have 
for ten years previous to the bringing of the action held the 
peaceable and continued possession without any interruption by 
the true owner, without any acknowledgment by him in posses- 
sion of that person being the owner, and without any suit having 
been instituted against him. 3 Burge 26, \M)ot 33. 3. 0. 



N •' 14 ^^^ * Raterale Unanse v. Coomboore Appu, 'July 31. 

. The Supreme Court is of opinion that the deed from plain- 
tiff to defendant dated 19th September 184G is revocable 
according to Kandyan law, by which " all deeds of gift whether 
conditional or unconditional are revocable by the donor in his 
life time." 

Maf^hall 320. Armour 179. 

Kandy, Nos. 22,404 and 21,344— 25th March, 1850. 

Kandy, No. 23,886-— 12th September, 1851. 

:\Iatale, No. 4,271— 20th August, 1844. 

Kaiidv, No. 24,318— 31st July, 1854. 



of*. 

-Supreme Court 1). C, Colombo, { , QporaP Aihian Pprpra deceased 

Minutes," Xo. 1,056. 1 ^^ ^^ "^ *^ ^^ ^ aeceaseu. 

1854. 

— ' Cark, C. J., — The application is rejected. The secre- 

Augt. 61, ^^^y jg jjqIj authoHzed to file an application for adminis- 
tration as is required, when the next of kin apply for 
the same. The course which the secretary should pursue is 
clearly laid down in the 7 th clause of the rules of court, sect. 4 
viz. to file an affidavit of death without any application what- 
ever for administration. Upon the return to the citation and 
commission, if no next of kin appear, the court may then con- 
sider whether it will grant administration to the secretary or to 
any one else. This does not require the intervention of any 
proctor, and is the practice pursued in the district court o£ 
Colombo. 



D. C, Jaffna, ") ^ - ,. « , . . , ., , 

Nov. 7. 1 00 > Caderasen, guardian of his minor children 

^^' «; >«,., \ V. Caderen and another. 

o,/ol J 

Per Curiam^ — The interlocutory order of the district court 
is sot aside without costs, with liberty to the plaintiffs to repeat 
their application should they see fit. 

An infant who sues by a next friend is not liable for costs, 
nor can his property be seized in execution for their payment, 
because he cannot while under age disavow the suit. But if 
the infants, (the 2nd and 3rd plaintiff) have attained their 
majority, which does not appear, and have since thought proper 
to proceed in the cause they will then be liable for costs. The 
property however of the 1st plaintiff (the next friend) is liable 
Beames on Costs, p. 103 and 107. 



D, C, Matiira, 1 ^. ^v. 

Dec. 8. ^^ 18 321 ' I ^^"^^^^^ ^' Siman, 



Per Cnriam, — The principle of the law of intervention is that 
if any third party consider his interest will be affected by a cause 
which is depending, he is not bound to leave the care of his 
interest to either of the litigants, but has a right to intervene, 
or be mavle a party to the cause and take on himself the defence 
of his own rights, provided he does not disturb the order of the 
]U(X'e(.'dii'.«2R, nor .stop the progress of the case. The intervenient 
nmy vym\o in ;jI hhv sla^e of tho cause mni even after jiidprmrnt. 



57 

if an appeal can be allowed against such judgment. It is im- " Supreme Court 
material in what state the cause is in, if at the time of the Minutes," 
intervention the proceedings are not deranged by it. Members 1oD4. 

of Orphan Board v. VanReenen, 1 Knapps Privy Council Reports 
p. 91-2. Chilaw No. 18,115 in appeal. Voet, 5, 1, 87. Gail 
p. 125. 

No.' 27^66o! j ^^y^P^^^^ V. Soyza, 

This was an action on a pro. note. On plaintiff moving for 
provisional judgment, defendant denied receipt of the considera- 
tion in full. After examination of the defendant, the learned 
D. J. allowed plaintiff's motion. 

On appeal, per Curiam, — 

The order of the district court of Kandy of the 25th day of 
September 1854 is affimied with costs. The Supreme Court in- 
fers from the examination that the wheat (for the value of which 
the note was granted) had been delivered to the defendant, but 
that they had not removed all the wheat at once, and that there 
was part still in the store to be removed by them. The defendant 
admit also a delivery of part. In Collison ^ Co, v. Ehqteen, Men- 
zies B. p. 46, it was held that on a note given for the sale of goods 
a delivery of part was a sufficient consideration given by the 
plaintiffs to support the whole note, and the note was valid and 
binding on defendant, and that the mere fact of the failure of 
the plaintiffs to deliver a part of the goods without any liquid 
evidence instanter to prove that this non-delivery was a default 
of the plaintiffs, was not a defence against provisional sentence, 
which therefore the court gave with costs. 

Application of E, T, Oerlits and William 
Vanden Drieson of Badulla Proctors. 

On reading the petitions of E. T. Gerlits and William 
Vanden Drieson, and the letter of the district judge of Badulla, 
it is ordered that the certificates be granted to the said petitioners. 

The petitioners are informed that under the 5th cl. of the 
Ordinance No. 12 of 1848 they are incapable of obtaining any tax- 
ations of any bill of costs due to them or of maintaining any 
action or suit for the recovery of any fee, reward or disbursement 
for or in respect of any business, matter or thing, done by them 
as proctors, whilst they shall have been without such cert&cates, 
and they are liable to be prosecuted by the Queen's Advocate 
for the fine therein named. 



58 



"Supreme Court D. C, Galle, ) n ^ xr- t: ? - r «* v. 
Minutes," No. 14,879. \ ^^^ ^tcholas v. Justtna. 



1854. 

"" P^r Curiam, — The Supreme Court does not decide the 

Dec. 23. cage q^ the plea ot res judicata, but on the merits. But by the 

Dutch law, persons other than the heirs who meddle with the 
property of a deceased person are not liable for more than 
their intromissions. See Freyhaua v. Cramer, Knapps R. 115 
and Herher fa Dutch Execut or* s Guide, p. 118, and the court is of 
opinion that the defendant in this case is only liable to the ^ 
extent of property or assets of the estate, that has come to her 
hands, or been possessed by her, and not duly paid over to 
the creditors having a right thereto. Nothing of the kind 
liaving been proved against her, the judgment is affirmed. 



" Supreme Court ^' No. l^S!^' } ManikralU v. Dingiry Menika. 
Minutes," 
1855. Per Curiam, — ^If the proctor in the cause is a witness, he 

— will generally be suffered to remain, his assistance being neces- 

Jany. 9. gary to the proper conduct of the cause {Pomeroy v. Baddeley, 

R. and M. 430) ; but this is matter for the discretion of the 
judge. . 



Jany. 22. ^^^'^ Jaffna, | Sidemheranader v. Sidember.anader. 

« 
Per Curiam, — The 7th clause of the rules dated 2nd July 
1842, modified by the 4th clause of the rules of the 17th June 
1844, empowers the district court to receive evidence on the 
part of a plaintiff on motions for judgment by defauU, which 
the Supreme Court has decided should always be required in 
cases where the title to land is in issue. 

The Supreme Court further observes that by the 1st clause 
of the rules dated 2nd July 1842, a defendant in default of an- 
swering is actually barred, and no rule is necessary for him to 
shew cause why he should not be barred. Being thus in 
default, the rule should rafter be served on him to shew cause 
why judgment should not be given against him for his default. 



bit 



D, C, Tangalle, ) 
No. 130. > 



TJie Queen v. Do wan and others. 



Per Ouriam, — The conviction and sentence as refipects the^ 
1st prisoner is set aside. The district court has fouad that the 
1st prisoner is only about seven or eight years old. Within the- 
age of seven years, no infant can be guilty of felony, and be- 
tween the age of seven and fourteen he is presumed to be 
innocent, unless this presumption is rebutted by strong evidence 
of mischievous discretion; and being concerned as he was with 
the two other prisoners, the Supreme Court presumes that he 
acted imder their influence. 



'^Supreme Court 

Minutes/' 

1855. 

Jany. 30.- 



D. C;, Matura, I 

No. 7,387. f 



Wellehinde v. Don Andris, 



The judgment of the court below was affirmed as to the- 
conviction of the prisoner on the 2nd charge for receiving the 
bull knowing it to be stolen ; and as to so much of the sentence 
as adjudged him to be imprisoned^ for the period of one year to 
hard labour; but the sentence was set aside as to the prisoner's 
receiving twenty lashes* 

Per Curiam: — The practice of the Supreme Court for some 
years past is not to inflict corporal punishment, where the 
prisoner is acquitted of the first count for stealing cattle, and 
convicted only on the second count for receiving. 

Although the offence is also very common in the Matura 
district and complaints thereof are numerous, the Chief Justice 
was assured by the late district judge Mr. Livera, who had 
great experience in the district and knowledge of the native 
evidence, that in most of the charges for cattle stealing, the 
viritnesses were false, and that he would not rjgly on the evidence 
adduced. And the Chief Justice concurs in this opinion from 
his own knowledge of such cases in the Southern province, and 
thinks the evidence therein should be relied on with great 
cautiofi. 



'^0. ^fiT^''''^'] ^'"""^ ^- ^'"^"^ ^"^^• 



Per Citnam,—- Flogging with the rattan is not a legal 
punishment. 



March 8. 



<;o 



"Supreme Court D.C., Jaffna, ) n^ * n i 
Minutes," No. 6,459. / ^^"^'^ ""' ^''^'^• 



1855. 
March 13. 



The whole proceeding in execution since the death of the 
late defendant tinder the writ re-issued against him is quashed. 
Parties bearing their own costs thereof. The suit having be- 
come abated by the defendant's death, no further steps in exe- 
cution could be taken, without first making the heirs or legal 
representatives of the deceased defendant, parties to the suit, 
when the writ should have been re-issued against them. 

The minutes of all the proceedings in the case should be 
entered briefly and consecutively by the secretary of the court 
by themselves; and the written motions also filed separately and 
not be jumbled with the minutes thereof. 



D. C, Manaar, 
No. 5,073. 



> In re Wopoe Marcavr, deceased. 



Per Curiam, — It is the wish of the widow that administra- 
tion should not be granted to her, but to the appellant ; she 
therefore waives her preferent right; and it is desirable to grant 
administration jointly to her and the appellant, because as a 
moorish woman, the widow would not appear or act in public, 
except through an agent. 



*r 1 «/% C. R., Battlcaloe, 1 ._ .^, 

March 20. j^J g 223. J -^"'»<'fl'«»> v- ^tttar. 



Per Curiam^ — The 20th clause of the Ordinance No. 14 of 
1840 applies only to prosecutions under the ordinance and not 
to a civil action. 



March 27. 



C. R., Nuwera Eliya, 
No. 196. 



} 



KeriMenika v. Ukkorale 



Per Curiam, — ^Although the 2nd defendant was absolved 
from the instance in the former suit No. 114, he can be again 
sued by the same party or by those in the same interest, upon 
the same subject matter. 



r.i 



An absolution from the instance of a defendant, is equiva*- '' Supreme Court 
lent to tbe plaintiff being non-suited, and is no bar to a subse- Minutes/' 
quent action between tbe same parties, wbiob a dismissal of tbe 1855, 

case would be. 



Per Curiam, — ^Every man is liable under the 8rd clause of 
the Ordinance No. 4 of 1841, wbo being able wholly or in part, 
to maintain bis family, leaves bis wife or his child, legitimate 
or otherwise, without maintenance or support, whereby they 
shall become chargeable to, or require to be supported by, others ; 
and there is no exception in the case of a been a marriage 
when they are thrown upon others for support. The defend- 
ant, moreover, may be found guilty as respects the child, 
although the complainant may fail to prove her liability to 
fiupport herself. 



^*No.?3?l2!l PereraY.Fonseka. J«°« 1^ 

Per Curiamj — The tolls by the Ordinance " shall be levied 
in respect of the bridges and ferries specified therein, and if a 
person crosses or passes over any bridge or ferry, he is liable 
to pay the toll for it, and cannot be free from or evade the 
same by stopping at the toll collectors house at the other side 
of the river, and not passing though the bar placed there. 

Some of tbe clauses in the Ordinance are taken from the 
English Turnpike Acts, in which the general provisions are 
different, as such Acts authorize the appointed toll collector to 
demand and take at tbe several toll gates and turnpikes, or side 
hars and claims, the tolls mentioned in the Acts before any 
horses, cattle or carriage whatsoever shall be permitted to pass 
through such toll gate. 



r,2 

1855. ' ' 

— Per Curiam, — The interlocutory order is affirmed. Aff 

July 3. ^y^Q Yiih^l alleges damage of £60 done to the plaintiff by the 

defendant ousting him, and prays not to be restored to posses- 
sion, but for such other relief as to the court shall seem meet, 
it is not merely a possessory action, but an action of trespass, 
to which the defendant may plead hia title. 

The possessory action is founded on the right under the 
Boman Dutch law of the person in possession of any property 
for more than a year and a day to hold the same imtil any one 
else has legally taken over the property in possession; and there- 
fore as the Kandyan law is silent on to such right of possession, 
the Maritime law should be now the law for the determination 
of such matter or question in the Kandyan provinces under the 
5th clause of the Ordinance No. 5 of 1852. 



Augt. 18. ^\^^' ^^080^*' } ^^''^'^'^^ ^^^^^ ^' ^^^^^ ^^^*^- 

Per Curiam, — The plea of prescription must clearly be 
allowed in this case and the plaintiffs claim dismissed* Th^ 
former suit having been £led within time is of no avail to the 
plaintiff in the present suit, which is a fresh action, and not a 
revival or continuance of the old one. Defendant also have 
made no admission in favour of the plaintiff's claim in the old 
suit. 



Sep. 7. D.^^, ^3^'*' } la re Thomas Aratchy, deceased. 

Per C7unam.«— Minors cannot consent to probate in common 
form. 1 William's Exec, 191, and the district court should 
appoint a guardian for them to litigate the will and enter a 
caveat for that purpose. The court is bound to protect the 
interests of minors and to require wills in this colony, where 
fraud is so prevalent amongst both relatives and executors, to 
be proved in solenm form, if the court doubts the validity of 
the instrument as a will, even though the consent of the parties 
may be seemingly given to the probate in common form. In 
re Tolcher, 8 Add. 17. 



68 



C R., Chavakachcheri, 1 rt - j r* *' Supreme Court 

No 4 171 f ^^^^^^^ V- forger. Minutes," 

' ' * ' 1855. 

Per Curiam^'^Aa objection to the stamp must be made — 

"before the paper is read in evidence. Fox v. Wagner, 7 A. and ^^** ^' 

E. 116. 



D. C, JafiEna, ) In re Deogopulle and wife Annama, and their n f 1 9 
No. 7,855. J son NicholaspuUe, deceased. ^^^* ^'^' 

Per Cunam,— The Supreme Court considers that the pro- 
ceedings should be quashed in so &.r as administration has been 
granted to the estates of Deogopulle and his wife Annama^ the 
father-in-law and mother of the applicant. But the grant of 
administration to the applicant to the estate of her husband is 
affirmed. 

Administration can only be given to one estate under one 
grant of letters of administration, since it would lead to con- 
fusion to mix up together estates to which difEerent people are 
interested in different degrees. 



No 11^2^ ^^' f Armogamy, Sidemherenader, Nov. 6. 

Per Curiam, — The Supreme Court considers that the com- 
plainants may -be severally fined £1 each under the 12th clause 
of the Ordinance No. 11 of 1843; and that it would be contrary 
to the obvious intention of the legislature therein to hold them 
liable only to pay one fine of £1, as well as the reasonable 
expences of the witnesses. 

It would also be inconsistent with the provision in the 
same clause for enforcing payment of the expences of the wit- 
nesses against " any party" and not " any party or parties" ad- 
judged to pay the same, which shows their separate liability 
although several are concerned in the offence, each may be 
separately guilty for his own act or participation therein, as in 
libel or forgery; (Cowp, 612) and the clause has been introduced 
for the suppression of wrong and for the public good, but if the 
construction contended for by the defendant's counsel were to 
prevail, then the greater the number of offenders, the less would 
be the punishment. 



"THE SUPREME COURT TUESDAY MINUTES." 



64 



D. C, Galle, I 
No. 11,864. J 



Bastian v. Siman, 



Oliphant, C. J., — In this case the plainUffd complain that 

tbey have been ousted from their lands by the defendants. 

The fictitious action of ejectment is unknown to our law. 

Prior to its introduction in England, the remedy in a case of 

this nature was a writ of right. The pleadings were very 

simple, and the court sees no reason why they should be other- 

^se in the courts of this colony. The rule of court on the 

subject requires that the libel shall state the cause of action or 

complaint as shortly as the nature of the case will admit. The 

libel in the present case is obscure, involved, uncertain, and 

most unskilfully drawn. According to what we find in Bkck- 

8tone*s Comm, vol. 3, chap. 10, and in the appendix No. 5 and 6 

in the same volume, the libel should have been drawn in the 

following fashion, allowing for certain differences in the law 

and practice of the mother country and the colony. 

After setting forth the names of all the plaintiffs, duly 
assisted by their husbands and guardians by name, the libel 
might only have set fforth the lands and premises, as set forth 
in the libel, that the plaintiffs were seized thereof as of fee and 
right by taking the rents, issues, produce and profits thereof ; 
that on such a day they were ousted by the defendants ; and 
further (to meet the local law) it should set forth that they have 
a title by prescription, (in the usual way.) The libel does not 
seem demurrable by reason of the Ordinance No. 21 of 1844. 
The defendant may plead that Ordinance in bar, as he would 
an Ordinance for the limitation of actions. 



'* Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes,'^ 

1846. 

Feb. 24. 



D. C, Chilaw, \ ,> i- e- 

No l.S 11.5 } -P^^'*^' ^^^^^• 



No. 13,115. 

Oliphant, C. J., — By the Roman Dutch,, law it should 
seem, 1st. — That a person wishing to intervene naust obtain the 
leave of the court so to <lo, upon showing a probable interest. 
2nd.- That an intervenient cannot set up a separate right, different 
from the plaintiffs or defendants. Voet 5, 1, 37 and 38. But 
it may be a question whether the 32nd rule of court does not 
admit of greater laxity in favor of intervention, upon which the 
judge will not give any opinion in the present case. The rule, 
however, does not appear to interfere with Roman Dutch law, 
which requires that the intervenient shall take up and go on 
with the suit in the stage in which he finds it when he comes 



Feb. 24. 



«a. 



** Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes/' 

1846. 



into court. The Supreme Court, therefore, directs that th^ 
trial be Bet down for an early day, and thai the interyenients 
(\?ho before that time shall have been allowed by the district 
court to intervene) be allowed at the trial, if they think fit, to 
argue in any manner they please. By doing so, however, they 
will be bound by the judgment, because they have become 
parties, and they will observe they are too late to file a list of 
witnesses and documents, and so will be deprived of the advan- 
tage of evidence : such being the case, the intervenients will do 
wisely to withdraw from the suit by leave of the court, and ao 
can bring their action at a future period, and they must pay 
all costs occasioned by their intervention in both courts. 



May 12. 



N^ 19 124 » ^furugappa v. Chritina. 

Carr, J., — The Supreme Court has decided in a case re* 
served for collective decision, (Chiliiw No. 4,416, 24th October 
1838, see Morgan's Digest p. 252) that, by the settled piactice 
here, an administrator is at liberty to alienate, and consequently 
to eni'umber the whole estate entrusted to him, the remedy for 
the heirs being against the administrator and his securities for 
malversation; ajid this court has subsequently refused, judicially 
sitting, to deviate from that established practice, many titles to 
estates being now dependent upon the validity of transfers thus 
ma<le by a<lmini8trators. The decree of the district court, 
moreover, appears to go the length that immoveable property of 
an intestate is not liable to l»e sold under an execution by a 
.creditor, wlio has obtained judsrmeut against the administratrix 
for a debt eontracted by her in that cnpacity, because she had 
specially mortgaged the land as administratrix to the creditor 
for payment of that debt, which is clearly erroneous. 



May 19. 



C. R., Calpentyn, I »- » »' • 
No! 2,066. } ^""*"''' ''• ^ ''""': 

Carr, J., — Where the owner of a vicious animal has notice 
of its having done an injury or being accustomed to do mischief, 
he is bound to secure it at all events, and is liable for damages 
to a party subsequently injured, if the mode he has adopted to 
secure it proves to be insufficient. Blackman v. Simmons 3 C. 
and P. 188: /?, v. Higgins, 1 Lord Raym: 484; B. N. P. 76. 



tff. 



Minutes." 
1846, 



In this caae, it is alleged that both the animals were known " Snprcme Court 
to be butting bufialoes, and that the police vidahn had ordered Tuesday 

their owner to tie them up, or else to cut their horns and yoke 
them to another, which plaintiff did with his l)uffaloe, but the 
defendant neglected to comply with the headman's directions 
and allowed his buffaloe to remain loose, when it gored the 
tied buffaloe of the plaintiff. If these facts be proved, the 
plaintiff Would be entitled to judgment. Case remanded. 



^"No! 18*649: } ^^"^ ^- ^"P^ ^'^*^- 

Carr, J., — It is a general rule that all proctors, attomies 
and solicitors, are privileged to sue and be sued in their respec- 
tive courts in person. Arch. Foi-ms, 467; and Arch. Plead. 279; 
2 Chitty on Plead, 29; Grant's Chonc, Voet, lib. 3, tii, 3; and 
a proctor of the district court is not obliged to employ another 
proctor or advocate to conduct his suit therein, or to sign his 
petition of appeal, his own signature with the addition " proctor 
of the district court" being a sufficient compliance with the rule. 
In the petition filed, the applicant signed it twice, viz. as party 
and as proctor. Where the district court finds a petition not 
duly signed, it certainly must decline to receive it, pursuant to 
the 2nd clause of the rule of the 12th December 1843; but if 
the district court should be satisfied upon proof taken by it, 
either mero motu, or by order of the Supreme Court, that the 
omission to file a proper petition and give security within the 
limited time, was not imputable to any negligence or delay on 
the part of the applicant, in that case it is necessary for the 
matter to be referred to the Supreme ''-ourt to decide on the 
allowance or rejection of the appeal according to the 5th rule 
of section viii. 



May 26. 



D. C, Kandy, ) 
No. 19,862. f 



Administrators of the Rt, Hon. Jos, Alex. 
Stewart Mackenzie v. Arabin. 



Carr, J., — The order of the district court rejecting the 
application of the defendant for a commission to examine certain 
witnesses in England and Scotland, and also to examine the first 
plaintiff Philip Anstruther Esq. now in Europe, be affirmed, ex- 
cept as to costs, but the pleadings are remanded back to the 
district court with liberty to the parties to amend their plead> 
ings within such time and on such terms as the district court 



June 13. 



<;; 



Hinutee/* 
1846. 



" Siwrem« Court may on motion appoint, and to examine respectivelj such of 
Tuesday i\^q parties as are resident in the Island, or the proctor in the 

case, as they may be advised to do; and the defendant may 
renew or make such further application for a commission afore- 
said as he may thereon be advised to be necessary for his de- 
fence, and he may be entitled to upon fuller affidavits stating 
generally the points to which the witnesses are to testify or the 
1st plaintiff is to be examined, so as that the court may be 
enabled to judge both from the pleadings and such affidavits, 
whether the witnesses be or be not material, and whether the 
examination of the said 1st plaintiff would conduce to the pur- 
poses of justice. And it is further ordered that the order of the 
district court of the 26th May ultimo fixing this cause for trial 
on the 22nd instant be set aside, and both parties are adjudged 
to bear their own costs on the above orders, and on this appeal. 

Under a recent Ordinance (No. 11 of 1845) for amending 
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, this court is required to 
shortly state the grounds of its decision when it proceeds on 
any other reasons than the court below, moreover as the present 
application involves some new points of practice, the court feels 
itself bound to more fully record its reasons than in an ordinary 
case. 

The Supreme Court is of opinion that the pleadings in this 
case do not sufiiciently disclose the real facts of the case. The 
counsel on both sides appear to have endeavoured to have 
stated as little as they possibly could of the real facts in their 
respectively pleadings, in order to throw the burden of proof as 
far as possible on the opposite party, and the consequence is 
that the pleadings are confused, and the parties have taken issue 
not upon the real facts; whilst the court is even left to be in- 
formed from the affidavit of Mr. McChristie, and the statements 
made at the bar, that the defendant was let into possession on 
the 3rd July 1843, pending a negotiation for purchase from Mr. 
Stewart Mackenzie. 

The answer of the defendant does not state any title in 
himself or a third person. The defendant denies only therein 
that the plaintiffs are administrators, because there is a will 
proved in the prerogative court of Canterbury, without setting 
forth whether such will is executed to pass immoveable property 
in this colony or not; denies that the premises mentioned in the 
libel were ever granted or conveyed to, or possessed by Mr. 
Stewart Mackenzie as the owner thereof, and states that defend- 
ant was put into possession on the 3rd April 1843 by one Jas. 
Stewart in whom no title is alleged, and upon conditions most 
vaguely stated, and it concludes with a general denial of all the 



<:8 



c^er facts stated in the libel. In short, tlie whole answer 
shews that the defence is to put the plaintiffs on proof of their 
title without entering on the question of the defendant's own 
title, and looking to the facts disclosed in Mr. McChrihtie's 
aiEdavit and stated at the bar, this court cannot in any way 
favour such a defence apparently made with the solo view of 
defeating if possible, or at all events of delaying, justice. 

The practice of the District and Supreme Courts in thi* 
colony in civil suits is moreover as far as possible to enforce a 
full disclosure of the real facts upon the pleadings, or else by 
examination of the parties or proctors whose statements (see 10th 
rule) then become part of the pleadings, and for that purpose 
a mutual examination of the parties or projjtors is allowed with 
all the latitude of cross-examination, so as to narrow the points 
for proof before going to evidence. Therefore previous to 
granting any application for a commission to examine witnesses 
at a distance or out of the colony which must be attended with 
much delay, the court ought to feel satisfied, which it does not 
in this case, that the party applying for such commission has 
acted conformably to the above practice, and is not premature 
in seeking for such commission. 

The Supreme Court entertain no doubt that it has a dis- 
cretionary power in granting such commissions, and that the 
evidence required should appear on the pleadings and affidavits 
to be material and useful to the party applying for it and the 
application not made for -oppressive or unjust purpose, or to 
delay justice. See 2 Phill. Evidence 885. 

The new evidence Ordinance No. 3 of 1846 simply declares 
that it shall be lawful for the court to issue these commissions, 
but the old 26th rule of sect. I of the General Rules and Orders 
has been strongly relied on by the plaintiffs counsel to shew 
that Mr. Lock's affidavit is not sufficient, as he is not a party in 
the cause, whereas by that rule it is required that " the party 
" moving shall declare in open court (subect to punishment 
"as hereinafter provided by rule 29, if he shall attempt to 
" deceive the court) that he considers the evidence of such 
" witness material." 

I£ the court were satisfied that it was precluded by this 
rule in granting such commissions without the parties declara- 
tion, in any case where the commission was clearly necessary 
and the party was out of the colony, it would of course, 
in analogy to the practice of the courts of law in England, 
previous to the late statute empowering them to grant such 
commissions without consent, require the opposite party to 
admit the facts or in case of a refusal the court would put off 



"Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes," 

1^46. 



OH 

" Supreme Court the trial from time to time to allow the party to comply with 

ruBBday the rule; {Fnrly v. Newnham, I Doug. 419), but the court can- 

Mmutes, qq^ consider itself so precluded. 

^"^"* A case has been cited in the Colombo district court wherein 

Mr. Langslow had allowed the agent of the plaintiff to make 

the statement for the {)laintiff required by 2nd rule of sect. I, 

but this court is not inclined to follow that precedent. It views 

the rules as framed for the general guidance of the court and 

not to embrace every special case (see Rule 47 of sect. I.) and 

that the absence of the party out of the colony is a " casus 

omissus,*^ to which the rule in question does not extend, but for 

which the court is bound to provide by acting in such manner 

as may be most in comformity with the spirit and intention of 

that rule. 

The court has no hesitation in saying therefore that in this 
case where the party is out of the colony, the proctor is the most 
proper and fit person to supply the declaration of the party himself 
required by the above rule, because the proctor ought always 
to be fully informed of the real facts and merits of the case, and 
the court has a double hold on him, viz., its own summary 
power of punishing a practitioner for want of integrity and 
deception, independent of the oharge of perjury. Whereas it 
has only the latter hold on the agent, and although in the instance 
of Mr. Armitage cited, and in the present case of Mr. Lock, the 
affidavits are of course beyond suspicion, yet the court must 
consider that the general practice of taking any agent's affidavit 
in such cases might in this colony open a door to fraud for dis- 
honest parties to avail themselves of, especially with the powers 
they possess of limiting the authority given to such agents 
both as to time and other respects. The court moreover in 
holding that an affidavit of the proctor of the defendant ought 
to have been made in this case, acts in accordance with the 
English practice, which requires that on an application for a 
commission to examine witnesses abroad, the party himself or 
his attorney at least should make the necessary affidavit in all 
■uch cases. Honham v. Leighy 5 Price 444, 2 Arch. K. B. p. 29. 
Although the common affidavits cited from Tidd and 
Chitty*s Forms, state only, that the evidence is material, without 
Bpecifiying the points to which it is intended to examine the 
witnesses, and which is the form of the affidavit in England 
usually made to delay a trial upon the absence of a material 
witness, 2 Sim, 485, Arch, Forms 557, yet if the witness is 
abroad, or if from the nature of the application, it may be 
suspected that it is made merely for the purp<»0 of delay, the 
above general form will not in general be gu^Bci^Qt, but the 



70 



CoUrtA UBiiallj require that the affidavit shall state the cause of 
action, and the evidence expected from the witness, in order 
that they maj judge if it he material. 2 Arch, K. B. 239, 
Bur, 1513, I W. Bl. 570. In this colony also by rule 9 
of the General Rules of the 17th June 18 4, it is provided that 
in every affidavit for founding a motion for postponement of 
trial for absence of a material witness, ^' it shall be necessary to 
^' state that the witness is not kept away by collusion and also 
" the points to w^hich such witness is to testify, so that the court 
'^ may be able to judge whether the witness be or be not 
'' material," and if such full affidavit be required for even a 
short postponement, d fortiori it ought to be required on a 
motion for a commission to examine witnesses in Europe, which 
may delay the cause for many months. 

Referring to the latter cases of Grinnell v. Cobbold^ 4 Sim 
546. — Baddeley v. Gilmore 1, M & W. — Lousada v. T'empler, 2 
Buss. 561. — King of Spain v. Mendizabal, 5 Sim. 596. S. C. 2 
Kuss. 541. — Lloyd V. Key, 3 DowL, P. C, a similar practice appears 
now to prevail with the courts in exercise of their discretionary 
powers in granting commissions abroad as the affidavit must 
state the nature of the evidence expected from the witnesses, 
unless the same is obvious on the pleadings, in order to enable 
the court to judge whether the evidence sought to be obtained 
under the commission will on the pleadings in the cause be 
material and likely to be useful to the party at the trial. In 
considering how far the affidavit should shew the evidence to be 
material the court has been moreover much influenced by a case 
not referred to at the bar, viz. Woodhead v. Boyd, 6 Price 101. 
As in following English cases from analogy, for the purpose of 
laying down any new practice here, this court would certainly 
prefer adopting a practice which old experienced judges had 
declared " it would be useful to require" if unfettered by pre- 
cedent. On the above grounds, the Supreme Court considers the 
two affidavits of Mr. Lock to be insufficient to support the present 
application made on the behalf of the defendant for a commis<* 
sion to examine the witnesses in England and Scotland. 

The court does not however consider that the answer of 
Mrs. S. Mackenzie in Chancery (" in which the defendant may 
** admit every fact, and yet couple the admissions with circum- 
'^ stances, that will prevent the plain tifiE from using the answer 
" at law," Noble v. Garland, 19 Ves 874) can preclude the 
defendant from examining her as a witness under a commission, 
if her evidence be shewn to be necessary ; nor can the omission 
of the defendant to examine Captain Stewart de bene esse pre- 
vious to his leaving Ceylon, notwithstanding the notice of his 



u 



Supreme Court 
Tuesday 
Minutes." 
1846. 



71 

" SupreiBB Court intended departui'e having been given to the d^endant aa de- 
Tuesday posed to iu Mr. McChristie's affidavit, see Grinnell v. Cohbold^ 
Minutes," 4. ^-^^^ 54^5^ j,,jj, ^j^^ affidavit left by Captain Stewart of them- 

^"^"* selves de[)rive the def*»ndant of his right to examine Captain 

Stewart as a witness under a commission, if his evidence be 
shewn to be material. 

What has been stated in respect to this application for the 
examination of witnesses must apj)ly equally to that part, which 
extends to the examination of the 1st pl^^intiff, because from the 
provisions of the 29th and 31st rules of sect. I. of the general 
rules and orders of court, it is clear that the court must be 
satisfied that such examination would conduce to the purposes 
of justice before allowing the same. 

As to the order for fixing the trial on the 22nd instant, it of 
course cannot stand consistently with the directions hereinbefore 
given on the first order being affirmed. 

In regard to costs, as the parties have allowed both orders 
to be appealed from iu one petition of appeal and each party 
has succeeded in part under that [letition (viz, in reserving one 
of the said orders) the cost should be divided; but a less tech- 
nical and better reason is, that as this is in several respects a novel 
' application in this colony and the precedents are conflicting, and 
apt to mislead (see (^'heminant v. D La Cour, 1 Mad. 211), it is 
not a case for costs; and it is the invariable practice of the 
Supreme Court on such appeals to divide the costs. 

N ' 1 2 0^0 1 ^^^^^ Lthbe v. Meera Lehhe. 

SrARK, J., — The order of the district court is affirmed, costs 
in appeal to stand over. 

In this case, the defendant demurred to the libel, and the 
district court finding the demurrer sufficient as regards the libel 
being inconsistent and repugnant respecting the time from which 
rent is a claimed, but insufficient on the other points of the 
demurrer, adjudged the demurrer sufficient, each party to bear 
their own costs consequent on the demurrer, and at the same 
time directed the plaintiff, on his motion, to amend the libel 
within eight days. 

Appeal has been taken by the defendant against this judg- 
ment on the followinir grounds, namely, — 

Istly, that the demurrer was sufficient on a poiwt considei- 
ed otherwise by the district court. 

2ndly that the costs of the demurrer should have been 
given or at least should abide the ultimate result of the cafie, and 



July 7. 



8r^7, that leare to amend should not be allowed without *^ Supreme Court 
payment of costs occasioned in consequence of the amendment. Tuesday 

This last ground was the only one argued at the hearing of the Minutes," 
appeal. Now in reference to that, it appears that by the 4th lo46. 

fiection of the rules of court 2nd July 1842, either party may ~~ 

by motion to the court and once or oftener as he may have 
occasion, obtain an order to amend his pleadings on cause shewn 
to the satisfaction of the court and upon such terms as the 
court shall impose. Here the terms imposed were that the libel 
should be amended within eight dajs, and there is nothing in 
the rule, or on the face of the record to shew that the court did 
not exercise a sound discretion in the order which it gave. 



- 'no! tmt^' } ^""^"^ ^' Schubert. j^^ 21 

Tekflk, J.,«— The 9th clause of the general rules and 
orders of the July 2nd 1842 sets out the way in which the 
judgment by default laay be obtained, and in so doing does 
away with the necessity of a rule nisi to obtain it by declaring 
that the party may at once make a motion for such judgment, 
find the district court ie authorized to grant it on such motion, 
provided the party against whom the judgment would operate 
has had due notice of the motion being intended to be made. 
This notice does not require the assent of the court before it be 
served, and all that is required is that, on the hearing of the 
motion for judgment, '^ the court must be satisfied that the 
party in default has had proper notice." In this case the res- 
pondents, who were in default, had had proper notice of the 
motion of the plaintiffs proctor of the 17th instant and made 
no o^^sitioB to it and ^e plaintiff was therefore entitled to 
have judgment. 



^'No! 2^77!°' I Oorhff Y. Ebert. July 21. 

Templs, J.,— In this ease the cause was called on iot 
hearing in the court below on the 18th of. Jikly instant and 
thereupon the advocate for the defendant moved that ^^ all the 
plaintiffii to witnesses be kept out of hearing during the trial." 

The advocate for the plaintiff objected to one of his client's 
witnesses being sent out ^b he, the witness, was proctor 'tor the 



78 

Suprome Court plaintiff in the canie and the adrocate required hia 

Tuesdajr^ during the trial. 

184^"' The district ooort allowed the motion of the defendant's 

^ ' counsel on the grounds that the 27th clause of the -firat section 

'^. of the General Rules and Orders of the 1st of October 1883 

makes no exception nor leaves it discretionary with the district 

court to permit the presence of any witness on the oppoMte 

party objection to it. 

From this order the plaintiff has appealed. The Supreme 
Court is of opinion that the order of the district court allowing 
the motion should be set aside. 

The rules of practice are not in the discretion of the dis- 
trict courts to observe them or not, but, like all legislatire 
enactments and written instruments, are subject to le^d con- 
struction, and the clause in question ought from neceirity to be 
construed to exempt a proctor in the cause and medical and 
other witnesses called to give their opinion in fjuestions of 
science, upon facts stated by others. These are exce|itions under 
the general law of evidence and are not abrogated by the rules 
of practice and those rules are to be viewed '^ as framed for the 
general guidance of the district court, and not to embrace ev«y 
special case." 

It is therefore considered and adjudged that the order o£ 
the district court of Colombo of the Idth July instant, in ao far 
as it directs the plaintiffs proctor to be ^' kept out of hearing" 
be set aside with costs. 



July 21, P- C^» ^^ J Q^^een r. Coroenerogey JdfUa. 



Tehple, J., — The order of the police court directing the 
amount of the recognizance entered into by the appellants 
as sureties for Coroenerogey Janis in the case No. 2,254 of the 
said court to be paid into court, be set aside for irregularity. 

The &ct8 of this ca% are these :— 

On the 15th April 1846 Janis was convicted for keeping 
a house for the purpose of common and promiscuous gaming and 
sentenced by the police court to fine and imprisonment; but he 
was *' allowed to be at large on his calling this sent^ce intob 
*' review within the prescribed time and abide in that respect 
'' the decision of the Supreme Court under recognizance of 
'* twenty pounds sterling, that is himself in ten pounds, and two 
'* poun(ii atid two secureties in the like turn/* 



7i 

Janifl ** called the Bentenoe into review'' and the present '* Supreme Court 
appellants became his sureties in the sum of &ve pounds each Tuesday 
and entered into a recognizance, the condition of which is aa^ i q^** * 

follows, to wit : *®*^' 

" The condition of this recognizance is such that the above 
*' bounded Goroeneregej Janis shall within the prescribed time 
** call the sentence into review and abide m that respect thd 
** decision of the honlile the Supreme Court. Then this recog- 
** nizance shall be void or else remain in full force." 

The sentence of the police court was affirmed by the 
Supreme Court, and on the 27th May the following notice was 
issued by the police court to Janis. 

'' To the police office of Dangedere. 

'' Summon the abovenamed defendant to appear before the 
** police court of Galle at 10 o'clock on the morning of the 80th 
** instant to hear the order of review made on the above case, 
** and in default the recognizance entered into by you will be 
'' forfeited.** This notice or summons was servea on Janis, but 
he did not appear on tibe day therein appointed and the appel- 
lants were thereupon summoned on that day to produce on the 
first of June the body of Janis and were informed that in default 
thereof their recognizance would be forfeited. 

The sureties appeared on the first of June and pleaded that 
in consequence of Janis having had notice of the result of the 
appeal before the sureties, they were unable to produce him in 
court on that day; and they therefore prayed for time to do so. 
This prayer was refused and the penalty on the . bond declared 
forfeited, and this <Hrder is the subject of the present appeaL 
Janis surrendered himself on the 4th June. 

In these circumstances the main question for the considera- 
tion of this court in this case is, whether Janb forfeited his 
bond; for as the obligation of the sureties is accessary to that 
of their principal, if the principal is not obliged, neither are the 
sureties. Then was Janis called upon to surrender himself ? 
By the notice above quoted he certainly was not; nor was he 
even informed by that notice that the sentence of the police 
court had been affirmed and it does not appear that any other 
notice was ever issued to Janis. This notice was not sufficient 
to justify the police court in calling upon the appellants to pro- 
duce Janis within so short a time and in refusing to grant uiem 
resonable time for that purpose and declaring that penalty of 
their bond forfeited. 



70 

"8.^«e^Court P. C^Bagapoor., ^ ^^^^ ^^ ^^, ^^ 

Minutes/' 
1846, Temple, J., — In this case the defendant was cliarged by 

"^ the complainant, as a Government grain renter, with cutting 

Augt. 1. j^jj^ thrashing a chena without giving notice to the com- 
plainant, as such renter, as required by the Ordinance No. 14 
of 1840 clause 14. 

The defendants pleaded *^ not guilty," and the court below 
after hearing the evidence for the prosecution, dismissed the 
complainant on the ground that it was not incumbent on the 
defendant to prove that he had given the required notice until 
the complainant should have given " some thing like proof of 
cutting without notice. " The Supreme Court is of opinion that 
under the plea of not guilty, all that the complainant had to 
prove, and which he did prove, was that the defendant had cut 
and thrashed his crop ; and it was incumbent on the defendant 
to prove that he had complied with the Ordinance by giving the 
notice thereby required. It is a general rule of evidence, that 
the burthen of proof lies on the person who has to support hi« 
case by proof of a fact which lies more peculiarly within hia 
own knowledge or of which he is supposed to be cognizant. 
See Phillips and Amos on Evidence page 829. 

The proceedings in this case must therefore be quashed 
and the complainant is left at liberty to proceed anew. 



D. C. CA)lombo« I «> »• mM V »f 

Augt. 18. j^Q 2 808 I ^^^^^ ▼• -Mwra Ld>he. 



Temple^ J., — This is an action on a promissory" note with 
a prayer for a provisional judgment in the libel. The usual 
summons was issued through the fiscal to the defendant to 
appear and answer, without calling upon him to admit or deny 
his signature. The defendant entered his appearance ; and sub 
sequent to this and before he put in his answer, the plaintifiPs 
proctor served a notice on the defendant (not a summon through 
the fiscal) informing him that on a certain day he would move 
for a provisional judgment on the libel. 

The Su))reme Court is of opinion that this notice was in- 
sufficient to bring the defendant before the court for such, a 
pur{->c)se. The defendant should have been called upon by a 
summons served through the fiscal, inasmuch as it was to 
supply what might, and in practice always does, form part of 
original summons to appear, and as it was to answer to an 



70 



essential part of the libel, it should haye been served in as solemn 
a waj as the summons to answer the other part of the libel. 
This notice is also informal because it does not call upon the 
defendant to admit or deny his signature to the promissory note 
(^Van Leeuwen p. 629). With respect to the erasure in the 
promissory note, the Supreme Court is of opinion that that 
erasure is not material enough to stay namptissement. 

It is: therefore considered and adjudged that the judgment 
of the district court of Colombo of the twenty first day of July 
ultimo be set .aside with costs. 



ti 



No! S!&. } ^"^^^^^ V- ^'•«^«'- 

TfiHPLE, J.y — There being an appeal on the merits of this 
case against the final decision of the district court of Kandy, 
this court sitting in Colombo could not give any judgment 
which would clash with any judgment which might be given by 
it on bearing, in Kandy, the appeal from the final decision, and 
could not grant the commission sought to be obtained unless 
both the appeal should, by consent of the parties, be heard at 
once in Colombo* But as both parties wished that this inter- 
locutory appeal should, if possible, be now decided, and as the 
opinion of the eourt is against the granting of the commission, 
the court entertains the case, and determines the same on the 
following ground. 

The subject of the appeal now before the court, is an 
application on behalf of the defendant for a commission 
to examine witnesses in Great Britain. But before consi- 
dering the present application, the court must notice the 
former proceedings in this case upon a similar application, 
which was likewise heard in appeal before this court. This 
court in refusing that application, strongly remarked on the 
insufiiciency of the pleadings in the cause, in as much as they 
did not disclose the real facts of the case; and considering that 
the practice of pleading in this colony is more in accordance 
with the rules of equity pleading requinng the fullest disclosure, 
the court should feel satisfied that the party applying for a 
commission had first, in as full a way as he possibly could,, 
brought out on the pleading the real facts of the case. The 
court was then of opinion that the pleadings did not sufficiently 
disclose the real facts, and the application was thereupon dis- 
missed with liberty to the parties to amend their pleadings, and 
to examine such parties as were resident in the island or their 
proctors in the case. The defendant was further permitted to 



Supreme Court 
Tuesday 
Minutes." 
1846. 



Augt. 22. 



77 

'* Supreme Court renew or make Ruch further application for a commission as h« 
Tuesday misrht thereon be advised wis necessary ttr her defence and he 
i"T«** might be ent^^itled to upon fuller affidavits, stating generally the 

• points to which the wituesses were to testify. So that the court 

mi<^ht be enabled to judge both from the pleadings and such 
affidavits whether the witnesses were material or not. Now no 
alteration has taken place in the pleadings, no examination has 
been had of any of the parties, or their proctors, and the court 
is unable to feel satisfied that the party applying for this com- 
mission has first, in as full a way aa he could, or even in any 
way, brought out, as he might have done upon the pleadingB, 
the real facts of the case. 

Th affidavit on which this application is moved is certainly 
more full than that upon which the former application was 
made. But it does not satisfy the court that the evidence 
sought by the present application is material and indispensable 
to this case as it stands upon the present pleadings. The affi- 
davit is also insufficient when made by a proctor who preludes 
the whole of it by stating that " he has received all his instruc- 
'' tions from Mr. Lock through his counsel here and that be has 
'^ neither directly or indirectly had aAy communication with the 
** defendant," his client. The name of pha,t counsel is not 
mentioned but if it had been, can a proctor whose duty it usually 
is to give instructions to his counsel, make a satisfactory affi* 
davit when he in the commencement states that the instructions 
(and as the court understands it the instructions upon which his 
affidavit is framed) are derived from, an unnamed person and 
that person a counsel in the cause. Thin may admit of expla- 
nation, but none is given and in its absence Mr. Smith the 
proctor shews his incompitency to make this affidavit. 

It is therefore considered and adjudged that the judgment 
of the district court of Kandy of the thirty first day of July 
last discharging with costs, ''the rule nisi calling upon the 
" plaintiffs to shew cause why a commission should not issue to 
*' examine certain witnesses in Great Britain and why the trial 
'* of this i-ase should not be stayed until such examination takes 
*^ place" be affirmed with costs. 



Sept 1. ^'^^' J*^' I Thilippo V. Domingo. 



Temple, J., — ♦ ♦ ♦ The award made by the arbitrators 
is void on other grounds. One of the parties to the submiasioa 
bond viz. the 2nd defendant, died before this award w|is mads, 
and this occurrence reroked the submission in toto (Watson on 



I 



Arbitmtion, p. 29, 27), and tktre 1» no proTision in that ^^ Supreme Court 
instrument that the death of anj one «£ the parties should not TueiMiay 

Qperate as a revocation. 



No* U 0^ I ^^>o*V^PP^ Ohetty ▼. Oomanuamy. 

Cabb, C. J.y — No sufficient causes shewn upon the applica- 
tion for the examination of the plaintiff. It is clearly dis- 
cretionary with the CDurt to refuse such examination, if it con- 
sidered that it would not conduce to the purposes of justice, 
whether the application be made under the 29th and 31st rules 
of section 1 of the General Rules and Orders of court, or under 
the 7th clause of the Ordinance No. 8 of 1846, which last 
enables the court to issue a commission for such examination. 



MinuteSf/ 



1846. 



Oct 2. 



D. C, Kandy, ) 
No. 19,642./ 



Hamilton v. Ro89, 



Gakb, G. J.,— *The interlocutory order of the district court 
is reversed. The plaintiff is clearly entitled to examine the 
defendant and upon the defendant's admigsion of the debt on 
Buch examination, the plaintiff ought to get judgment without 
farther proof. 

Looking to the practice of the English Courts upon inter- 
locutory juc^^ents by de&ult, 2 Arch, K. B. P. Chap. 3, 4, — 
4 Taunt. 487, and to the old rule 24 of section 1, whereby on 
any material witness of the defendant being absent, that plain- 
tiff was ''at liberty to proceed exparte to the hearing and 
decision of the case unless &c,^ the Supreme Court considers 
that whenever the plaintiff is required to adduce further evidence 
under the 4th rulci the defendant should not be precluded from 
being present thereat, nor from cross-examining the witnesses 
adduced by the plaintiff. Although the proceeding would be 
exparte so &r as that the plaintiff's case could be alone gone 
into, and on its being closed the defendant could not be allowed 
to enter into a defence, to exclude the defendant from court or 
to prevent him from employing counsel to watch the further 
proceedings would be paitially to deprive him also of fair means 
of appeal, which he has undoubtedly a right to, upon any 
irrc^gulaiity in taking such further evidence; but even if the prac- 
tice were correctly atated by the district court, the defendant 



Oct. 9. 



70 

" Supreme Court being thus made to suffer from his own default, affords no 

^uesd^^ reason why the plaintiff should on that account also suffer by 

ifijjR^' losing his right to summon and examine the defendant; such a 

^ ' course (if sanctioned) would be to allow the defendant to reap 

"^ a benefit from his own wrong. 

The district court proceeds further to " judicially" notice 
that the defendant was an applicant at the time for the previ- 
lege of cessio banorum, but such an application having been 
made, ought not in its present stage to affect or hinder in any 
way the proceedings of a creditor in his suit for obtaining judg* 
ment for the debt due to him. 

The Supreme Court must also obserre that where further 
evidence is required under the 4th rule, it should be ti^ken at 
the time, or on a day to be appointed by the judge, and that 
the plaintiff had a right to expect some early day to have been 
specially named for that purpose and not to have had the case 
set down on the trial roll, which would delay it for months 
unless advanced by a subsequent motion at the plaintiffs own 
costs. 



Oct. 20. ^'no! S?'. } ^^'^ ^- ^*«»*«^ 



The criminal complaint filed in the district court was 
dismissed in these terms : — 

Cabr, C. J., — The Supreme Court ofcourse ooncurs with 
the district court tlmt the Ordinance No. 12 of 1843 does not 
apply to contempts of court, and that the district court may 
proceed without t^p interference of the Queen's Advocate in all 
cases of contempt committed before it or against the execution 
of its process. 

But the Supreme Court considers that the alleged distur- 
bance of the defendant is not properly a ground tor the summarv 
proceedings of contempt, because the plaintiff appears, by his 
affidavit and the fiscal's return, to have been put into quiet 
possession pursuant to the decree in his favor in April 1845, 
and this complaint is not made until the 28th July 1846^ and 
then only upon vague general assertion, that '' the defendant 
has been and is hitherto" withholding and retaining forcible 
possession of the northern part of the garden. 

If this disturbance commenced immediately on. such posses- 
sion being given by the fiscal then in the neglect of the plaintiff 
to bring it to the immediate notice of the district court, would 
in itself afford sufficient ground for dismissing this oomplaintj 



so 

and leaving the party to resort to a new action. But the * Supreme Court 
Supreme Court finds on enquiry that the general practico in Minutes, ' 
Colombo, where a party has once been put into quiet possession loo4. 

under a decree by the fiscal, and a subnequent tit^spass occurs, 
is to seek redress by instituting a new action, in which the 
plaintiff has only to plead his having been put into possession 
under the former decree, and the defendants subsequent dis- 
turbance; and the defendant must join issue on these points, 
and would not be allowed to enter into further proof of hip 
claim set up in the former suit ; upon judgment being given against 
the defendant, the court would award exemplary damages for 
such renewed disturbance. 



D. C, Jaffna, ) >-, , »r 

No. 4 240. ] Gandappa v Nagamanny, 

Carr, C. J., — The suit has been instituted upon the dowry 
deed in question, and where the form of the pleadings is such 
that at the trial it is necessary (as in this instance) to produce 
the deed, and on its production it is found insufficiently stamped, 
the case may be allowed to stand over to get the deed duly stamped, 
but if the plaintiffs do not do it, the defendants should be ab- 
solved from the instance, ou the cause being set down for further 
bearing. 

If the Supreme Court was to aanotion in such a case, the 
proceedings being remanded back for further trial, in order that 
the plaintiffs might give evidence of long possession and amend 
their pleadings thereon by putting in issue a prescriptive title, 
the practice would tend only to encourage the filing of such deeds, 
and to defeat the laws for the due protection of the revenue on 
stamps; and it is obvious^ that if this be a genuine deed and it 
confer a title on several lands amounting in value to Rds. 376, 
which are now possessed by the plaintiffs and their daughters 
in dower, it is the interest of all to contribute the £4 10«. to 
get it duly stamped and not to risk for the future their title to 
proof of possession alone. 



'__*' _ . ^^ ' V Ciiioffn V l^tm.rhtirnnl/i UCt. SI. 



N ' 1 145 I Qm^^^ V. Punchy raalc. 



The judgment in this case was reversed and the prisoner 
acquitted. 

Carr, C, J., — The conviction cannot be supported, as the 
charge is alleged to be " for wilfully making a false accusation 
against one Calingooralle for cattle stealing before the justice of 



^1 

" Supreme Court the peace" and from the note of the magistrate it would appear 

Minntes," that the false information was in the affidavit before the justice 

1854. of the peace for an-est, but the above offence is not punishable 

"^ under the 18th clause of the Ordinance No. 15 of 1843. 



D. C, Colombo, j rji j- » i.-^^ 



Oct. 27. No. 783. J 



Carb, C. j., — The interlocutory order of the district court 
must be amended by the motion being ordered to stand over, 
upon the objection taken by the two heirs of the defendant now 
before the court, and the plaintiff is required to cite the four 
other sons, whom these two heirs affirm to be their coheirs and 
to have been jointly with them in possession of the land in dis- 
pute since their father's death. And if any of the other sons on 
being so cited should admit their being coheirs, the district court 
must thereon order such of them to be co-defendants in this 
suit with the two heirs now cited, but if any of them should 
renounce, or disclaim, and it should appear also to the district 
court that they have been unnecessarily cited owing to the ob- 
jection made by the said two heirs being vexatious, or con- 
taining false statements, the district court should thereon ad- 
judge the said two heirs to pay all the costs incurred upon any 
such wrong citation. 

The practice of the Supreme Court has been upon the 
death of a party to a suit, to allow his heir or legal re- 
presentative to be substituted by an order of court, upon 
application made to it for that purpose either by motion or 
petition, without any bill of revivor being filed. (See L. B. 
3rd May and 9th October 1834 and 19th September 1836. Also 
Negombo appeal 2874 decided on 14th December 1836.) The 
acting chief justice is inclined to consider that a petition is the 
preferable course for any application to the district court of this 
nature, as it is clearly the general course for all exparte applica- 
tion to the court, where no cause is depending, or where the 
person applying is not a party to a cause; — the heir therefore 
applying to be substituted should strictly in his view proceed 
by petition, and uniformity of practice alone would render it 
accordingly expedient to require the opposite party to adopt a 
similar course, but as the practice has hitherto allowed such 
applications to be made by motion, the Supreme Court cannot 
reject the present application upon the ground of the plaintiffs 
proctor ha-ving made it by motion upon affirmation of the party, 
and not by petition. 



R2 

As to the necessity of summoning all the other sons, it * Supreme Court 
inust depend on their having excepted or interfered with the Minutes." 

estate of their deceased father, and on that point the court has 1854. 

now conflicting affidavits adduced before it. It is clear how- 
ever that the two heirs cited before the court are liable to be 
made defendants to this suit, and the district court should pro- 
ceed to ascertain if their objection be valid, by citing their 
alleged co-heirs, and making such order thereon inf respect to 
who should be joined as co-defendants in this suit, and][by 
whom the costs of the further proceedings on this objection 
should be borne, as it may see fit. 

The costs of this appeal are to borne by both parties, but 
the costs of the motion in the district court are to abide the 
directions of the district court upon the further proceedings 
thereon . 



D. C, Kurunairala, ) r^* • i^ •? xr r 7 

No. 9 015? ( '^ Mantka v. NamberaU. Oct. 30. 

Carr, C. J., — The interlocutory order||of the district court 
is reversed, as the district court has no power to alter its final 
decree in the cause, nor can it, where it imposes any punish- 
ment for contempt, remit the same on a subsequent day, unless 
the sentence be conditional, as any commitment until the 
prisoner comply with some order passed, or until further order 
of the court. Although there is an instance mentioned in Sir 
€bs. Marshall's notes where the Supreme Court has sanctioned a 
district court awarding double costs under the 29th rule of 
section 1, the collective court has subsequently held the practice 
wrong, as a fine is the proper mode of pecuniary punishment, 
and a fine must be payable to the Queen, and not to a private 
party at the discretion of the court, unless it be empowered to 
do so under an Ordinance, or Legislative Act. Under these 
circumstances, the Supreme Court thinks the payment of double 
costs ought not to be enforced, and unless the plaintiff will enter 
a consent on the record to forego all claim thereto, the Supreme 
Court will allow the defendant to appeal from that part of the 
decree awarding them, notwithstanding the lapse of time, and 
the plaintiff will have to bear his own costs thereon. . 



83 

•Fuprtmf Court D. C, Kandy, 1 nr i ^ a m -i 

Tu^^'a TV 19 fi^O I Mohamado v, Assena Mankaf. 

. M niites," ^ ^ ? • I 

2^46^ Stark, J., — This was an action on a loase between plaintiffs 

and defendant to recover from the latter the second year's rent 

Dor. 8. pn,jable like the first, by advance. The defendant . emitted the 

1 ase and his payment of the first year's rent in advance, but 
denied being liable for the amount now claimed, as it had been 
agreed by and between the parties that the second yeiir's rent 
phould be paid at the lapse of the said second year, and also 
because he had not used or occupied the premises for the full 
second year. On this the plaintiffs demurred, alleging that the 
defendant having in the first part of his answer admitted the 
deed of lease filed by the plaintiffs he is bound by the provisions 
of the same, and is precluded from pleading any agreement 
or understanding other than or independent of the agreement 
set forth in the said deed. 

The district court allowed, the demurrer with costs, and 
further ordered the defendant to file another plea or answer to 
the libel. Against this further order the plaintiffs aj)pe il, and 
contend that judgment: for them on the demurrer should be 
final and d* finitive. In setting forth the grounds of the decree, 
the district judge says that " by the strict rules of English 
** pleading the plaintiffs might have been entitled to judgment, 
" but it has b^en the practice of this court to allow a party to 
^* put in a better plea or to amend his pleadings, and the court 
*' sees no reason for departing from this practice in the pre- 
'• sent case." 

The Supremo Court consider? the practice of the court a 
sufficient ground, and moreover is of opinion that the rules of 
pleading in this colony, having in view an explicit statement of 
all facts of the case which are material to a just judgment on 
the merits, it would not be agreeable to those rules to give final 
judgment in this case in the present staire of the proceedings, 
two grounds of defence being stated, one that it has been agreed 
by and between the parties that the rent in question should not 
V)e payable in advance, the other that the premises have not 
been used or occupied for the full terra. 



Pec 1.") \^ ' o^\ ' I KaJoo Banda v. Goloo Banda, 

SiATrC, J, — In tills case the defendant wps charged with 
assault ic..'\ striking th^ complainant with a stick an 1 hands at 
the fi'el ' >^t1' voile. lie ploaded not gi^iUy, and without 
«=xaminino; anv witnesses on oithcr pi<lo. iudirment was triven 



84 

for tlie defendant on tbe ground set forth in tlie remarks of the '* Supreme Court 
police magistrate, which are to the following effect :•- -* Parties luesday 

present, each party claims the field in which the alleged assault Minutes, 
is said to have occurred, then^fore as it is not possible to know io4D. 

who was the intruding party, they are directed to settle that 
matter by a civil suit — the present charge to stand over till the 
right to the said field be decided.' 

This course of proceeding is not agreeable to the rules 
and orders, nor to the course adopted in England in analogous 
cases. 

By the rules and orders for police courts sec. 8, it is pro- 
Tided that ' on the day of hearing, the police magistrate shall 
enquire into the charge or complaint and shall cause the clerk 
to read the same as entered in the record book and shall call 
on the defendant to plead to the same and shall hear such legal 
evidence as the prosecutor may produce in support thereof; and 
the said police magistrate shall then hear any statement which 
, the defendant may make relevant to the charge or cause of 
complaint and his witnesses if any in support thereof or for the 
defence.' And according to the practice in England, besides 
protesting against and commenting on the validity or effect of 
the evidence tendered against him, the accused may defend 
himself by proving not only that he is within some proviso or 
exception which excuses or qualifies the fact charged, but also 
that the act complained of was done under an asserted authori- 
ty, or pursuant to a claim of right of property ; for when the 
title to property comes in question, the exercise of a summary 
jurisdiction by justices of the peace is ousted, — a principle 
which is not in general founded upon any legislative provision, 
but is a qualification which the law itself raises in the execu- 
tion of penal statutes and is always implied in their construc- 
tion. From the cases decided on the point it would seem that 
without entering into the substantial merits of the title set up, 
it is sufficient, to stop the summary interference of a magistrate 
by conviction, that even a colour of title appears to be in ques- 
tion and that the act was really done under an assertion of that 
supposed title, however weak the claim may appear to be. The 
rule however, it is admitted, ought not to be so extended as to 
enable an offender to arrest the summary jurisdiction of the 
justice by a mere fictitious pretence of title. An assertion of 
right therefore is not to be regarded where it evidently appears 
that no colour or pretext for it exists, as where the party's own 
showing or other manifest circumstances prove the claim to be 
wholly groundless. 

In the present case tliere is nothing before tho court to 



85 

*' Supreme Court shew the nature of the assault charged, nor the nature of the 

Tuesday claim alleged in defence to the accusation. The police magis- 

oi c^ trate shuuld proceed with the case on the principles above set 

J.o4:D. forth; but having regard also to the character and circumstances 

of the assault charged, according as the same come out in 

evidence. 

It is considered and adjudged that the judgment of the 
police court of Matela of the 24th September 1846, should be 
set aside, and the same is set aside accordingly, and the case to 
proceed in due course. 



Dec. 22. D. C, Jaffna, 1 « ^ »^ r ^ 

No 1 894 S ^^9<^^^^ ^' Mahamadoo, 



No. 1,894 

In this case the district judge on the application of the 
defendant ordered the attendance in court of plaintiff's wife 
(who was the 2nd plaintiff), for examination. 

Against this order the plaintiff appealed. 

Stare, J. affirmed the decision of the district court in thes^ 
terms : — 

The 29th clause of the 1 st sec. of the General Rules and 
Orders of the 1st October 1883 provides that any party to a 
suit or his advocate or proctor on his behalf shall be allowed to 
examine any adverse party at any stage of the suit, if the dis- 
trict judge shall consider that it would conduce to the purposed 
of justice; and by the Ordinance No. 12 of 1843 se3. 14, it id 
enacted that every party to a civil suit before a district court 
shall be liable to be summoned and examined viva vo(*s in open 
court or by interrogatory to be issued by such court, but net 
upon oath, if such court shall consider that any such examina'- 
tion shall be necessary. 

In the present case the district court has been of opinion 
that the application for the personal attendance of the second 
plaintiff for viva voes examination should be allowed under 
the circumstances of the case and thereby determining that the 
ends of justice required such personal attendance ; and the 
Supreme Court sees no reason to dissent from the decision of 
that court. 

The circumstance of the second plaintiff being a Maho- 
medan fenaale cannot be allowed to operate as a ground of ex- 
emption from the examination ordered ; for whatever may be 
tJie feelings of repugnance or other sentiments entertained against 



m; 



appearance in public, the Supreme Court does not feel at liberty ''Supreme Court 

le special Tuesday 



to yield to these without consent of parties or some specia 
legislative enactment on the subject. In support of the present 
appeal, a judgment has been referred to (Jaffna 2136) where 
the appellant supposes the privilege claimed was allowed, but 
the decision there given can form no proper authority, it being 
probable that the attendance of the party there was dispensed 
with on other grounds than her being a moorish female. 



Minutes," 
1846. 



Minutes, 
1847. 

Jan. 1«3. 



In re Gabriel Perera, a proctor. 

The deputy Queen's Advocate (Mr. Selby) for Gabriel " Supreme Court 
Perera moved that a mandamus in the nature of writ of habeas Tuesday 
corpus be issued, directed to the fiscal of the Western Province, 
to bring before the court the body of the said Gabriel Perera 
and to return the cause of his imprisonment. 

The application was founded on an affidavit of Gabriel 
Perera, deposing that he was illegally imprisoned under a warrant 
of arrest, of which the following is a copy:— 

Warrant of Arrest for Contempt. 

" Criminal Jurisdiction. 

In the District Court of 7 Korles, 

" To the Fiscal of the Western Province. 

" Take into custody the body of Mr. Gabriel Perera, proctor 
of the district court of Kornegalle, now at Colombo, charged 
with contempt of court, and send him before me forthwith. 

" Given under my hand this 24th day of December 1846." 

(Signed) " E. H. Smedlet, D. J.*' 

Mr. Stark, J. granted the application for mandamus^ 
making it returnable the following day at 12 o'clock. 

Ob the following day (13th January 1847) the defendant 
was brought before the court, the fiscal returning at the same 
time the warrant of commitment above set forth, as the cause of 
the defendant's imprisonment. 

Stark, J., — This is an application for a mandate in the 
nature of a writ of habeas coiyus to bring up the body of 
Gabriel Perera now in the custody X)f the fiscal of the Western 
Province and to discharge him therefrom; and the ground of 
the application is that he is detained illegally and without suffi- 
cient warrant. 



.s7 



*' Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes," 

1847. 



The warrant of arrest is in these words: — (set forth above.) 

It is a general rule thai, in all cases of imi-risonment on 
warrant, the cause of commitment shall appear on the face of 
the warrant. What shall be deemed sufficient cause to satisfy 
this rule must be ascertained by reference to the great principles 
which secure the liberty of the subject. For though there are 
in the English books various decisions and dicta on points ana- 
logous to the present, yet they are neither so uniform nor so 
settled as to afford a certain guide in the determination of the 
present case. This much, however, is clear from them, that 
the whole tendency of modern cases is (as might indeed be ex- 
pected) in favour of liberty, and in maintenance of the princi- 
ple that the liberty of the subject shall not be taken away or 
abridged, but for some certain and good cause shewn. So, 
though commitments for high treason in general are considered 
sufficient as a commitment for treasonable practices, yet a 
charge of felony generally is not enough: the warrant must con- 
tain the special nature of felony, as for murder, burglary and 
the like; and the reason assigned is not only that a charge of 
felony generally wants certainty, but also that it may appear 
to the judges on a habeas corpus whether it be felony or not. 
The present case is of the same description and the warrant is 
open to both the objections now stated. It charges the prisoner 
with contempt of court, but this charge or appellation compre- 
hends under it a great variety of offences of different degrees of 
criminality and requiring in different cases a different course 
of proceeding. Under the general charge of contempt of court 
therefore, the cause of commitment does not appear without a 
specification on the fact or facts constituting the species of con- 
tempt intended ; and whether the prisoner is rightly charged 
with any species of contempt of court whatever cannot be ascer- 
tained from the prtsent warrant. In these circumstances to 
allow the warrant, would be against law and at variance with 
the principles of justice and the constitution. 

The court feels the less difficulty in coming to this con- 
clusion considering the terms of the liules and Orders for the 
guidance of parties in cases of contempt of court and the form 
of warrant of arrest for contempt, though the same be not 
binding by way of authority. 

The court is of opinion that the warrant of arrest in this 
case isi insufficient and accordingly that in respect of the same 
the prisoner be discharged out of custody forthwith. 



88 



!. K., Beototte, ) %m j- ir* 
N 1 67 1 I* ^^^^^ ^- Himmappooa. 



Stark, J., — In th's case the plaintiff complains that the 
suit brought bj him in the court of requests has been improper- 
ly dismissed. 

The commissioner says that ' on examination of the court 
records, he finds that plaintiff has twice already, brought this or 
an identical action, that he has twice been absent on the day of 
trial, and that the case has already been twice dismissed.* 
Nothing here stated however affords a sufficient ground for the 
judgment giveii. 

Interest reipublicoB ut tit ftnis litium is a good maxim ; it 
flows out of the very nature of society, for unless there is an 
end to litigation, rights would for ever remain uncertain and no 
maH would ever enjoy that security of person and property^ 
without some degree of which society could not subsist, and it 
may be added in proportion to the enjoyment of which in any 
society civilization advances, or has opportunity to advance. 

Accordingly it is a rule of law, that a solemn judgment on 
any matter standing pro veritate accipitur. But this effect 
cannot attach to a judgment given without a hearing of the case, 
which appears tn be the predicament in which the subject mat- 
ter of the present suit is placed^ If the judgments in the pre- 
vious cases were in* respect of the absence of the plaintiff, and 
so of the nature of nonsuits without evidence taken in the calise^ 
they do not amount to res judicata, which is properly defined a 
legal judgment on the same point between the same j^iarties, on 
the same grounds or mecUa concludendi after argument or oon^ 
fession. 



Carb, 0. J., — The Supreme Court has decided that it is 
not necessary to revive a suit against the heir or legal repre- 
sentative of a deceased party, that a bill of revivor or petition 
setting forth the &cts, should be filed, although they are clearly - 
the preferable course; but the application for an order to revive 
may be also made by motion; yet such a motion ought to be 
supported by the afiirmation of the party or affidavit, and not 
rest simply on the statement of the proctor in the written motion 
that the party was dead, and the person to be cited was the 
widow, and had done acts which made her an executrix de 
son tort, — Affirmed. 



a 



Stxpreme Court 
Tuesday 
Minutes," 
1847. 

jany. 19. 



March 9. 



80 

" Supreme Court D. C, Galle, ) „ , r, 

Tuesday No. 12,671. ^ ^*''''^'* ""• ^^'^^' 

liioutes/' 

1"^'' This was an appeal from the judgment of the court beloW, 

~ which, on the plaintiff's motion, granted an injunction for 

April 27. ^]jg removal, pendente litey of an obstruction put up by the 

defendant to a carriage way, the right to erect which formed 

the subject of the suit between the parties. 

Temple, J., — It is considered and adjudged that the inter- 
locutory order of the district court of Galle of the 12th day of 
March 1847 be reversed with costs. 

This is an action brought to remove a wall which is stated 
to have been built by the defendant so as to obstruct a private 
carriage way to the plaintiff's house, leaving only a foot path ; 
and after the filing of the libel, the plaintiff moved for an in- 
junction to the defendant to remove the wall, pendente lite^ and 
the court below granted it; but the Supreme C'ourt is of opinion 
that that injunction should be dissolved. Injunctions are usually 
granted to preserve property, pending a trial, to restrain parties 
and leave matters in their present state, until the rights of the 
parties are decided. But to allow the injunction prayed for in 
this case, would be to grant, in a summary manner, and without 
a trial, the chief part of the prayer in the plaintiff's libel, name- 
ly, the removal of the obstruction complained of ; and if the 
defendant succeeded in the end, she could not be placed in 
Btatu quo. 



Hay 4. 



*N ' 1 227 ' I y^l^^y^der V. Cadergamer. 

This was a suit for the recovery of certain lands. The de- 
fendants failed to file their answer in due titne and a rule was 
taken on 8th December 1845 to shew cause on 19th December 
why judgment should not be passed against them. The rule 
was subsequently extended twice to the 29th March 1847; on 
that day the defendants appeared and obtained leave to file 
answer within eight clays on paying the costs incurred by their 
previous default. Access to certain papers was stated by the 
defendants to be necessary to enable them to prepare their 
answer, and on 9th April 1847, they moved for a further ex- 
tension of eight days on the ground that they had not received 
the copies of the papers applied for. The district judge refused 
to grant this motion " unless by the consent of the opposite 
party." 



00 

The (defendants appealed and the Supreme Court (Temple, "Supreme Court 
J.) on 4th May 1847 reversed the decision:— Tuesday 

It is considored and adjudged that the interlocutory Minutes," 

degree of the district court of Jaffna of the 9th of April 1847 1*^47. 

be set aside, and the case remanded to the district court for the 
defendants to file their answer within such time as the district 
court shall appoint. 

The Supreme Court does not consider that under the 4th 
clause of the rules of court of 2nd July 1842 the consent of the 
opposite party is necessary, before a party can obtain further 
time to plead. In practice one or two extensions should be 
granted on sufficient cause shewn to the satisfaction of the court 
or on affidavit of merits. If further extensions are applied for, 
the court, if it see fit, may require that the opposite party 
should have notice of the proposed application. 



No. 1 ,7 18.** } ^^^ Thamis v. Htngo.. May 1 1 . 

This was a prosecution at the instance of an arrack renter 
lor breach of the 82nd and 37th clauses of the Ordinance No. 
10 of 1844 for possessing a large quantity of arrack without a 
license. 

The police macristrate, after evidence led, fined the defend- 
ants in £5 and confiscated the arrack seized, as well as a paddy 
boat in whicb it was found, with its other cargo. 

The owner of the boat and cargo, who was not a defendant, 
nor, according to the evidence, in \ny way implicated in the 
matter, brought the police magistrate's decision in review, 
in so far as it confiscated his paddy boat and such of its contents 
as belong to him, on the ground that the boat was not employed 
in the removal of the arrack. 

TEMrLE, J., — I am opinion that the sentence of the police 
court of Matura of the 16th day of February 1847 should be 
corrected by setting aside so much thereof as doth declare the 
boat and its contents (except the ai rack) forfeited, and the said 
sentence is hereby corrected accordingly. 

The prosecution in this case is ' for breach of the 82nd 
and 87th clauses of the Ordinance No, 10 of 1844 in possessing 
sixteen gallons and two and three quarter quarts of arrack 
without a license'; and the case though not otherwise cogniza- 
ble by a police court, was entertained in the court below under 



1*1 

'' Supreme Court the provisionB of the 7th cUuse of the Ordinance No. 2 of 1845* 
Tuesday Xhe arrack in question was seized while being put into a boat, 
^1 Q^^'' and the police magistrate having found the first four defendants 

guilty under the d7th clause, sentenced them to pay a fine of J&5; 
'"' and declared the arrack and the boat and its cargo forfeited. 

The owner of the boat has brought this case under review, and 
prays for the release of the boat on the ground that it was not 
employed in removing the arrack. Possibly it had been intend- 
ed to use the boat in removing the arrack, but that intention 
would not make the boat liable to confiscation unless there were 
evidence that the boat had been so used. The police court 
however having decided this case upon evidence, the Supreme 
Court felt reluctant to interfere with its judgment, and called 
upon the Queen's Advocate to appear and support it, but that 
officer gives up the boat and of course the cargo also, which 
was clearly not liable to forfeiture. 



"'^"- ^•iJ;:?^'"'} ^-v.Foo«. 



This was a complaint <' for a breach of the llib clause of 
the OrdiuAnce No. 9 of 1845, in having on the 28rd day of 
April 1847 wilfully demanded and taken an additional sum of 
six pence for a pony belonging to the complainant for which 
toll was previously paid in the morning of the said 23rd day of 
April 1847 while crossing the bridge of boats at Grandpass." 

On appeal, Mr. Temple, J.,— The Supreme C!ourt is of 
opinion that the judgment of the police court of Colombo of the 
8rd day of May 1847 should be set aside and the same is hereby 
set aside accoraingly. 

The charge as explained by the evidence is against a toll 
keeper for demanding the full toll upon a carriage returning 
with a horse which had pa88e4 through the toll on the morning 
of the same day, and had then paid the usual toll upon a single 
horse, such horse being then led out for the purpose of return-^ 
ing with the carriage. 

The 2nd clause of the Ordinance No. 9 of 1845, under 
which this toll was demanded, levies the toll upon the vehicle 
drawn by the horse and not upon the horse drawing the vehicle. 
The vehicle then only is free, and the horse, no toll having been 
paid upon him, is not free from return, except he should return 
with the same vehicle. Such being tjie construction to be, put 
on this Ordinance, it foUowjB that no previous pi^yment of toll 
for a horse can operate as an exemption from, any portion of the 






toll demandable upon a vehicle drawn bj such horse, although ** Sapreme Court 
the horse itself might pass t(»ll free under the 6th cL Chitiy's Tuesday 

Btim's Justice, 22nd Ed. tit. Highways, aeo. 9 p. 244 and cases Minutes," 
therein cited. ^^'^'• 



"'^No* 3 360"^^' } ^^^^ ^' ^^'^ ^"^ Smedley, June 6. 

Temple, J.,-^This is an action of libel for writing and 
publishing a certain defamatory letter set forth in the declara- 
tion. It is brought against two parties, but it is with the de« 
fendant Morris only that the court has now any concern. In 
answer to the declaration this defendant has pleaded 1st, the 
general issue of not guilty, and 2ndly, a justification from the 
trul^ of the alleged libel. To this answer the plaintiff has 
filed ^ demurrer stating many grounds for demurring ; but he 
lias relied in argument on twenty one only of the objections 
taken; but before entering upon a consideration of the demurrer 
and the other points which arise in this case, there is a pre- 
liminary question to be decided of vast importance and one, 
which as far as the court is at present advised, still remains an 
undecided one,-— namely, by what law this case is to be govern- 
ed. Whether by the law prevailing at Komegalle, the place 
where the cause of action arose, or by the Dutch law, such being 
the law prevailing in the district of Colombo where this action 
was instituted, it having been thus instituted as one of the 
defendants is the district judge of Komegalle, and Colombo being 
one of the next adjoining districts. But though this case was 
properly removed from the district of Komegalle to that of 
Colombo, the court is of opinion that the law of the former place 
must still prevail and that the case must be decided according 
to the Kandyan law, if any such there be relating to slander » 
but upon this subject the Kandyan law is perfectly silent. 
What bw then is to be had recourse to to supply the deficiency of 
the Kandyan law in this respect? It has been argued for de- 
fendant that the English law is to be called in as the law of the 

conquering country. But the court 
Olark^9 Col, Law p. 6. considers that the laws of ■ Eng- 

Blankard v. Galdy, land cannot prevail in any con- 
2 Scdkeld,^l2. Chitty*8, quered country until so declared 

Prsrog. p. 30. by the conqueror or his successors; 

whichhas never been done as re- 
gards the Kf^dyan districts; and that whenever the Kandyan 
law is silent upon any particular subjects, such subjects are to 



•* Supreme Court be decided according to the rules of natural equity and rigbt, 

Tuesday This case then is to be thus decided and by such rules. In 

Minutes/' deciding what are the rules of natural equity and right, the 

1847. court will not interpret them according to any arbitrary ideas 

•~ upon the subject, but will take as its guide and apply as far as 

they are applicable to this case and the circumstances of the 

Kandyan districts, the principles of equity as administered in 

the courts in England and will do so for two reasons. 

1st. — Because that system is founded upon principles of 
natural equity and universal justice more than any other system 
with which the court is acquainted. 

2nd. — Because by so doing the court will be following a 
guide which more nearly than any other approaches the Dutch 
law which prevails in the other parts of the island, and thus 
bring about so far an uniformity of law and practice through- 
out the island. We then come to the consideration of the 
demurrer itself and the various grounds which it sets forth. 
The first ground of demurrer stated is that the pleas of the 
general issue and justification from truth are inconsistent with 
r^ . TIT //. each other, the one denying malice, 

A Tj J A1J ano A^d the Other bemcf a simple plea 

4. B. and Ala. 603. £4.^1.1 -^x- -^ X ^ 

TTf . r ot truth admitting it, and cannot 

I airman X, Ives j. ^\ /^ 1 u^ £ _^ 

'S /? d AW 64fi under the General Ruie of court 

of 5th July 1842 sect. I. be pleaded 
together, inasmuch as that rule directs ^^ that every answer shall ad- 
mit or deny or confess and avoid all the material facts alleged bj 
the plaintifiEand shall clearly and concisely state and set forth the 
same." Now admitting the consistency of the plea, the court thinks 
the most liberal construction should be given to the rule in ques- 
tion, as has always been the case in the construction of our rules 
of court. And when it is considered that such inconsistent pleas, 
when allowed by the Statute 4, Ann. C. 16 in all English courts 

o^ t nj J of record, the courts of equity in Ene- 

Stephen on Plead 1 j 4.u u * -J -^i.- Jt^ 

oAfi land, though not corning withm the 

^' ' statute because they were not courts of 

Gibson v. Whitehead record, have decided that a defendant 

before Leach V. C, may there also plead double, because 

cited in Mad, Ch. the same latitude should be allowed in 

Vr, 229. Lube. 348. a court of equity as in a court of law ; 

and when it is considered that the 
form and procedure of our courts (except viva voce evidence) 
approximate most to Chancery proceedings ; and the rule being 
only directory and not posi^vely forbidding any double plead- 
ing, the court holds that under this rule two inconsistent 
pleas even may be pleaded. 



94 



But the answer of the defendant should be considei^ed in 

the nature of an answer in equity (in which there is always con- 

»^ !<.• i> Tit T iiA' tained a general traverse) and as 

c'^ > Til 1- such It should rully state all the 

^ ^ circumstances ot the case. It was 

stated by the plaintiff's advocate that equity pleadings must not 
be inconsistent, and in support of his position referred the court 
to Story's Equity Pleadingy sec. 653 and 656. But we find 
on looking into the accompanying sections that his reference 
related to pleas on equity and not to answers, the former not 
being an answer to the bill but resting on some new fact or 
point founded on matter stated in the plea and which precludes 
the necessity of answering such part of the bill as the plea 
refers to. For these two reasons the court holds that defendant's 
answer to he good in this respect. 

The next (the 2nd) objection to the answer is, that the date 
of the complaint made against the plaintiff to the district judge 
of Kornegalle by Madere Armogam and Welleyan Chetty is not 
stated. It only stating that it was made ^^ on or about the 
month of October then next ensuing at Kornegalle." Now 
there does not appear to be any ambiguity l)y which the plain- 
tiff can be misled in any way from the day of the month not 
b«ing st'ited, every thing is st ited which can inform him what 
the complaint was. The date of his employment by Welleyan 
Chetty is stated, the dates and times of plaintiffs alleged wrong- 
ful acts are stated and the court thinks he was sufficiently told as 
to the time when the complaint was made to the district judge. 

The 3rd objection is '^ that the complaints of Madare 
Armogam and Welleyan Chetty are not transcribed and 
detailed." 

The court does not think it n^^cessary that they should be ; 

for, considering as it does that the pleadings in this country 

ought to be more in the nature of pleadings in equity than at 

law and it not being usually allowed in an answer in equity to 

1 ^ /' Ch ^®^ forth deeds &c. in so many words but 

Practi^ p. 1S5. ^ ^'""^ T"""^^ *^^ substance (and if the 
'^ answer does more than this it may be ex- 

cepted to) the court considers that this answer in this respect 
is good. It clearly tells the plaintiff what the complaints were. 

. The 4th and 5th objections are that the complaint of 
Domingo Ramenaden is not stated to be true and that the date 
of it is Dot given, it only stating in or alxmt the month of 
February in 1846. For the reasons already stated the court 
thinks date is sufEciently stated and no further particularity 
would put the plaintiff in a better position. 



"Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes,'* 

1«47. 



95 



^'Bupieme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes," 

1847. 



The defendants belief iu the truth of this complaint id 
stated in the answer where defendant states " that he did com- 
pose and publish and cause and procure to be composed and 
published so much of the supposed libellous matter in the 
declaration mentioned as charges aga'nst the said plaintiff that 
complaints had been l(»dged against him with the district judge 
of Kornegalle which he 1st defendant believed would be sub- 
stantiated." 

The 6th objection is ^^ that Jayetilleke's guilty knowledge 
does not appear " The court does not see the necessity of the 
guilty knowledge of Jayetilleke appearing, if it af>pears and ia 
stated that the plaintiff against whom the alleged libel is written 
knew that the accusation of Jayetilleke was f alse4 

The 7th objection is '^ that it does not appeal" that Jaye* 
tilleke knew the witnesses to be false." This for the reasona 
above explained is not necessary. The answer states that 
Jayetilleke made a malicious complaint and it will be Fufficient 
Iq this case if it appears that the plaintiff knew the witnessed 
who supported it to be false. 

The 8th objection is that it is immaterial that the Govern- 
ment Agent did not believe the witnesses, and the court thinks 
BO too, and holds this objection such as it is to be a good one. 

It i& next objected that it does not appear with sufficient 
clearness in what proceedings plaintiff took a part. This ob- 
jection is taken becauae the word "proceeding*' is used instead of 
the word proceedings in the plural. Perhaps the latter would 
have been grammatically more correct \ but it is evident that 
the proceeding referred to is '' the said charge so maliciously 
and designedly brought." 

The 10th objection is that the date and place of plaintiffs 
participation does not appear. Now the answer states that the 
"plaintiff did on divers dates (which are mentioned) at Korne- 
galle permit and suffer Jayetilleke and many of his witnesses to 
meet in the premises of the said plaintiff/' and this statement 
the court thinks sufficient* 

The 1 1th objection is that the place where the plaintiff 
permitted the witnesses to assemble is not stated. This the 
court thinks is stated when the answet states that the plaintiff 
did at Kornegalle suffer and permit the said Jayetilleke and 
many of his witnesses to meet in the premises of the said 
plaintiff." 

The objection which follows next is that " it is immaterial 
that plaintiff aided Jayetilleke iu the manner alleged, because it is 
not stated that plaintiff knew the prosecution to be false." This 
is an essential statement and the court holds the objection good. 



96 

The 13th objection is that " it is not stated that Jayetilleke " Supreme Court 
belonged to the conspiracy spoken of among the witnesses. Tuesday 

The answer states that plaintiff suffered Jayetilleke and many Minutes. ' 
of the witnesses to meet and assemble in the premises of the 1847. 

plaintiff where they unlawfully and maliciously conspired against 
the said John Paulus Casy Chetty." This appears to the court 
to connect Jayetilleke with the conspiracy. The word " they" re- 
ferring as strongly as words can to Jayetilleke as well as the 
witnesses. 

The 14th objection is that " even supposing Jayetilleke did 
belong to the conspiracy, the plaintiff's guilty knowledge is not 
shewn." Plaintiff's guilty knowledge should be shewn and this 
objection is therefore held good. 

The objection next following in order is that ^' the date 
and place of the receipt of the £12 by the plaintiff is not stated." 
Here the date (15th October) is stated, but the place is not 
sufficiently specified, and the objection is held good. 

The 16th objection is that ''it is not stated that plaintiff 
knew why the money (the £12) was given to him." The answer 
states thJkt the money was paid to the plaintiff by the said 
Jayetilleke and the others of the party conspiring against the 
said John Paulus Casy Chetty " for the purpose of paying" the 
said sum &c. to the Editor of the Colombo Observer newspaper 
to induce the said editor to take the part of Jayetilleke and the 
others against said John Paulus Casy Chetty. This the court 
thinks clearly sets forth not only that the plaintiff knew the 
purpose for which the money was given to him, but that plaintiff 
was to be the party who was to induce the editor to take the 
part required of him. 

The 17th objection is that '' it does not appear that Mr. 
Clay was guilty of any swindling transaction." Now though 
tbe leaving a place with a debt unpaid is not necessarily a 
swindling transaction, the absconding from a place to '' evade 
paying a debt" is a swindling one. The answer states that 
plaintiff " wilfully" permitted Clay to " abscond and evade" the 
jurisdiction without recovering the debt, which the plaintiff 
could have done, and that Clay '' being so permitted and suffer- 
ed evaded and absconded" and left the island without paying 
the debt which he was able to do. Now reading the whole of 
this sentence together it states with sufficient clearness that Clay 
left the island knowing the debt was due and for the purpose of 
evading its payment. 

The 18th objection is that the "fraudulent means whereby 
the debt was incurred are not stated." This is not necessary, 
the fraud being in the evasion. 



97 



" Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes," 

1347. 



The 19th objection is that ^^ only one swindling transaction 
is mentioned." This is a \erj frivolous objection, but it certain- 
ly ifi one and it can be amended with the rest of the answer. 

The 20th objection is that the " plaintiff's guilty and cor- 
rupt motive in ficreening Clay does not appear." The court does 
not see how it can appear, — the defendant cannot investigate the 
plantifffi heart to learn the motives which actuated him. 

The last objection taken is that '^ the simple plea of truth 
is no justification. Truth to be a justification must state and 
shew that it wad uttered without malice and for a lawful pur- 
pose." This is a sound objection. It is not in accordance with 
any idea which can be found of natural equity, that simple 
truth which parades before the world delinquencies which may 
have been for years forgotten aiul which is only raked up for 
purposes of malice shall justify it« publication. 

The court has now gooe through all objections rai-sed in argu- 
ment upon this demurrer and h^s given them the most serious 
attention, and although many of them may have been held good if 
it had been guided by the special and technical rules of pleading 
which prevail in England, (and they have been supported entirely 
by English common law authorities and the court will say most 
ably supported,) still our rules of court are framed for a far 
different kind of pleading, one far more simple and far better 
adapted to the circumstances of this country, and it may also be 
said to our local bar where a plaintiff can, as he has done in 
this case by retaining three advocates, monopolize the talent of 
the bar and secure the services of all the advocates who usually 
practice in the courts of Colombo. The court must repudiate, 
and it does now most strongly, a system of pleading (which is 
becoming too prevalent) and which in the present state of the 
island, instead of assisting the administration of justice, will 
become an engine of the greatest oppression. If however the 
judgment in this case does not give satisfaction to the parties, 
the court hopes that, as it is a most important case and one in- 
volving points hitherto undecided, it will be reheard in appeal 
before the collective court. 

This is not a case of final judgment ; in its present state this 
demurrer is in the nature of exceptions to a bill in equity where 
the defendant .is allowed to answer over if necessary. The cases 
in which final judgment shotdd be given on the allowance of a 
demurrer are where there is a demurrer to the libel or declara- 
tion and the defendant having admitted all the facts in it join 
issue upon some point of law. 

It is therefore considered and adjudged, that the judgment 
of the district court of Colombo of the 27th day of April 1847, 



9'S 

I>e set aside and that the case be remanded to the said court with *' Supreme Court 
liberty to the 1st defendant, to amend bis answer within fourteen Tuesday 

days after this order shaU have been received by the court 5[??»' 

below, and that as to costs of this demurrer in the district court lo47. 

r«u«*i. > T J ftoA that they should stand over, not to 

. Ghitty s Index p. 932. , / -^^.u u i * v 

At d 9 II ^^ cause, but to be 

Q Y (1 T 79 ' decided at the hearing of the case 

n . I »• r ' and the costs of this appeal to follow 

Daniel v. Bishop, ^, i. £ *i, j 

■I a T> • IK the cost ot the demurrer. 

13 Price 15. 



No' S 652 I tJ'mooT Catia v. Coonjie Jflusa, July 10. 

Carr, J., — The order of the district court is set aside and 
the case is remanded back to the district court to allow a day 
to the defendant to summon his witnesses to prove the plaintiffs 
signature to the acknowledgment filed by the defendant ;' and 
both parties are to bear their own costs on the ordet of the dis- 
trict court and on this appeal. 

When the plaintiff seeks for provisional sentence on the 
lx)nd, or other instrument to which defendant does not acknow • 
ledge his signature, a further day is always allowed to the plain- 
tiff to adduce the witnesses to prove the signatufre of the defend- 
ant thereto, and a similar' indulgence ought to be allowed to the 
defendant to enable him to protre an instrument adduced by him 
as counter proof against the plaintiffs claim for provisional 
sentence upon its being denied by the plaintiff. 

The practice at the Cape of Good Hope as stated at the bar 
is for the couit^ there, to always grant this indulgence to the 
defendant. And the refusal of it here would frequently entail 
great injustice or inconvenience and expense^ for instance, the 
witnesses might be resident at such a distance that it would be 
impossible for them to appear on the day of showing cause, 
or if the plaintiff then acknowledged his signature, an unneces- 
sary expense to the defendant as well as much inconvenience to 
the witnesses would be incurred by the latter being summoned 
to attend before the plaintiff had denied his signature. 

The passage cited from VanLeeuwen p. 375 namely "what- 
ever he (defendant) can allege against it, must immediately 
appear" has reference to there being no unnecessary delay, and 
also to the short and simple nature of the proof then allowed, 
such as the evidence of the attesting witnesses to prove the 
plaintiff's signature to the instrument that is produced in court 
for the defence, and denied by the plaintiff. 



-09 

" Supreme Court C. R., JafEna, i /» r . a t i 

Tuesday No. 2,607. ( ^^''^^''^ ""' Awokker. 

Minutes/' 

■^^^' • . . The commissioner suspected that this suit had been insti- 

tuted on false grounds and dismissed it without hearing evi- 
dence. 

The plaintiff appealed and Garr C. J, set aside the decision 
in these terms : — 

The commissioner may 'possihly have well founded sus- 
picions as to the truth of the plaintiff's demand, but he cannot 
prejudge the case thereon, without recording the examination 
of the parties or taking any evidence. The case is remanded 
back to hear the evidence and give judgment de novo. 



Sept. 28. '*T*' 7^672 ^ I y^t^derstraaten y. Lister, 



Stark, J., — This is an application in the nature of an 
appeal against a judgment of the police court of Colombo finding 
the defendant guilty on a charge of assault and battery and 
sentencing him to pay a fine of twenty shillings. 

The grounds of appeal are various, but the main question 
raised is as to the powers and authority of the defendant, as head 
master of the Model School of the Colombo Academy, in " cor- 
recting misconduct and maintaining discipline" in the school. 

The complainant was a scholar in the model school, and 
punished for disorderly conduct; and the police niagistrate re^ 
cords as his opinion on the evidence, that *^ the conduct of the 
complainant, on his own showing, was very disorderly on the 
occasion in question, and quite subversive of discipline that 
must be maintained in well regulated schools, and that it would 
have been dereliction of duty on the part of defendant had he 
allowed the complainant to pass with impunity." The Supreme 
Court concurs in this opinion, but with this observation that 
the complainant was chargeable not \^th a single or ^ecific act 
only, as the police magistrate supposes, but with a coure of 
disorderly conduct, and that the defendant was called on to 
maintain his authority against its continued resistance, amounting 
it would appear almost to defiance.. 

The maintenance of authority and discipline in a school 
are essential to its existence. And though no doubt, these may 
in many cases be maintained, and, when they so can, are best 



100 

maintained bj moral means, the exhibition by the master of ^^ Supreme Court 
the kindly affections and all those moral qualities and personal Tuesday 

habits, which growing up in return in the scholar^ are at once Minutes, 
the most favourable for the inculcation of instruction and the lo47. 

most valuable in after life, yet there are occasions on which, "~ 

there can also be no doubt, other means must be employed ; and 
the law allows whatever is necessary to attain the ends it 
sanctions. 

Accordingly, not only may a father as respects his child, 
but likewise a master may as respects his apprentice, justify 
reasouable chastisement for correction; and it has been laid 
down that if a master, on correcting his apprentice, happens to 
occasion his death, the chastisement not being in itself excessive 
nor with an instrument either improper for correction or likely 
to endanger life or limb, it shall be deemed homicide by mis- 
adventure only, which is a misfortune but no felony. In like 
manner, the master of a ship may justify the punishment of a 
sailor. But a school master is more favourably regarded than 
either the master of an apprentice or the master of a ship, he 
having in fact the powers and duties of both combined ; for he 
has the instruction and the improvement of the individual in 
his charge like the master with his apprentice, and he must 
maintain due order, discipline and subordination in the school 
like the master of a ship with his crew. 

Whether in the present case where, as the evidence shows, 
the complainant was guilty of disorderly conduct in the first 
instance calling for correction, disorderly conduct in resisting 
the correction, and continued disorderly conduct in at length 
defying the master's authority and threating to leave the school 
and bring the case before the courts, — the defendant took the 
best possible course to maintain his authority in the school and 
to secure due discipline and subordination, the court is not here 
called on to determine. The court only finds that on the occasion 
in question it was necessary to correct misconduct and to main- 
tain' discipline and authority in the school, and that in the 
circumstances the measures adopted by the coifiplainant for that 
purpose were not illegal. Indeed in all likelihood judging from 
the evidence, and the testimony of the Reverend principal of 
the Academy, they were absolutely necessary and required for 
the good of the school. 

On these grounds it is considered and adjudged that the 
judgment of the police court of Colombo or the 3nd day of 
September 1847 beaetasideandthesame is set aside accordingly. 

Note, — This case appears to he the first of the kind which 
bas been brought before the police court of Colombo. The Supreme 



101 

'' Supreme Court Court hopes it will also be the last; and that both master and 

Tuesday scholar in the Colombo Academy will bear in mind their 

fftlT?' mutual relation to each other so interesting and important, — 

^^^'* the master that he has the character, habits and much of the 

future fortune of his pupil in his charge, the other that he is 

the pupil. And as to what the characteristic qualities of a 

hopeful scholar are we may find them from Socrates and Plato, 

that he should love learning, be willing to hear, and be ever 

bent on winning praise by well doing. 



0«*-^- ^SZI^O} -Tanchy y. Sa.a. 



Stark, J., — The defendants are charged with having 
forcibly and unlawfully seized and taken from the prosecutor 
on the 27th July 1847 a leaguer of arrack containing 153 
gallons of arrack while the prosecutor was removing it in a 
bullock cart from the distillery No . 72 at Uikcadoa, upon a 
permit from the arrack renter, marked 98 and dated the 20th July 
last, to the custom house at Dodandoa to be shipped to Madras, 
in breach of the 61st clause of the Ordinance No. 10 of 1844. 

By the clause of the Ordinance here referred to, it is enact- 
ed that every officer of police and peace officer whatsoever, and 
every person acting in the aid of any such officer, and every 
other person who shall, under pretence of performing any duty 
or exercising any authority imposed upon or vested in him by 
this Ordinance, use unnecessary violence or wantonly do any 
injury or give uncalled for and vexatious annoyance, shall be 
guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine not ex^ 
ceeding five pounds or to imprisonment with or without hard 
labour for any period net exceeding three months. 

The Supreme Court is of opinion that the offence herd 
intended is abuse of power and accordingly that the words 
'* pretence of performing a duty" &e. must be restrained to the 
excess which is made penal, and does not extend to the case of a 
person guilty of vexatious conduct but having no power to do 
the act in which such vexatious conduct is used. In the present 
case it is admitted that the defendants were not authorized to 
demand production of a permit for the arrack is question. 
Their conduct in the matter therefore, whatever it might be, 
could not fall within the purview of the clause founded on, as 
respects the 34th clause where authority to demand a permit is 



|)ointed out; nor as respects the 5dth clause wliich appears to ^* Supreme Court 
<^ntemplate only the case of forfeited spirits &c. contained in Tuesday 
|)rivate premises, and aot as here on the public road. Minutes,' 



No 7 S2^ / ('^^^'^o-^n V. Gander and others. 

Stark, J., — The judgment of the police court of Jaffna is 
set aside. 

If the defendants had a right of way to the temple, as 
alleged, they could justify, in trespass, their abating the nuisance 
by removal of any fence, wall, or other obstruction wrongfully 
placed across the way, by the complainant; and they cannot 
therefore be convicted under the Ordinance for unlawfully 
breaking down the fence without any evidence taken in their 
plea. 



j> 



" Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes/ 

1848. 

Jan. 25. 



D. C, Colombo, 
No. 4,118. 



[ The Bank of Ceylon v. Arahin. 



Feb. 15. 



. Carr, C. J., — In this case the Bank of Ceylon have brought 
an action against one Arabin who resides in France to recover 
£21,404 18*. Id. and have obtained an order from the district 
court that the service of all process in the case be made to F. 
Lock for and on behalf of the defendant, he being the agent in 
this country of the defendant. 

Whereupon on the receipt of the usual summons, Lock 
appeared by his proctor in the district court and admitted the 
claim on which a writ of execution issued. When this came 
to the knowledge of the defendant, he denied the authority of 
Lock to confess this judgment and sent out authority to one 
Armand to take the necessary steps for setting aside the judg- 
ment admitted by Lock. Accordingly on 28th September 1847, 
Armand on behalf of defendant moved for a rule on plaintiff to 
shew cause why the judgment confessed by Lock and the writ 
of execution obtained thereon should not be set aside. On the 
18th October 1847 the plaintiff shewed cause, when the district 
court gave the judgment now in appeal. 

The question for the consideration of this court is — 

1. — Whether this judgment confessed by Lock is null and 
void or not. 

2, — Whether if it be a nullity, the decree of the district 
court in appeal in this case can be upheld. 



105 



** Supreme Court 

Fuesday 

Minutes," 

1848. 



As for the first jxiint it depends entirely upon the extent 
of power given to Lock by the defendant Arabin From the 
documents filed and from the affidavit of Lock, it appears that he 
was only the general agent of defendant for the management of 
certain property. Lock in his examination states he never had 
any other power beyond mere letters of instructions which are 
before the court. Now it is a general principle of law that a prin- 
cipal is only bound by such acts of his agent as fall within the 
scope of the usual business confided to him, and it cannot be con- 
tended in the absence of any special power upon the subject that 
a special act like the present fell within the scope of the usual 
business confided to Lock. This court therefore considers that 
Lock had no power to confess the judgment in question, and that 
such judgmput is therefore a nullity, and that consequently there 
is no judgment in the case against the defendant. 

The judgment confessed by Lock being a nullity, the court 
comes to the consideration of the 2nd point, viz., whether the 
judgment being a nullity, the decree of the district court can 
be upheld. 4' 

The Supreme Court considers that the decree of the district 
court upon the rule in question cannot be maintained, inasmuch 
as the district court cannot open a judgment which is null and 
therefore not in existence, and the judgment upon which the 
writ of execution issued having been declared void the seques- 
tration cannot stand. 

So far indeed from Lock having had power to confess 
judgment in this case, the Supreme Court considers, upon the 
authority of Smith v. Hibernian Mine Company^ reported in 
1st Schoales and Lefroy page 288, that Lock was not in a 
situation to have been ordered to receive even process in this 
case, and if not a fortiori he could not confess judgment. 

As to the costs, the Supreme Court considers they should 
be borne by the plaintiff. 

It is therefore decreed that the judgment of the district 
court dated respectively the 20th May 1847 and the 22nd 
October 1847 be set aside with costs. 



D. C, Colombo, 1 
Feb. 29. No^ 3^282. f 



Aserappa v. Rodrigue, 



This is an appeal against the order of the district court 
dated 15th December 18^7 for refusing to postpone a case on 
an afRdavit that a material witness was absent. The plaintiff 
refusing to proceed, the case was struck off with costs which 



104 



the district judge deqlared, when on tLe next day the plaintiff *^ Supreme Court 
moyed to re-enter the caae, to be a final disposal of the case. w?^^^^,i 

The Supreme Ck>urt considers that with the afSdarit of the « o^o^'' 

materiality of the witness Ibefore it, the district court should io4o. 

not have Irefused to postpone the hearing of the case merely "^ 

because there weire other witnesses to the saine point. 

If the district court suspected the application was made for 
delay, it could have called for a fuller affidavit or have permit- 
ted the absent witness to be examined before judgment if 
necessary. The Supreme Court therefore thinks the motion for the 
postponement should have been allowed. As to the final dis> 
missal of the caee, the Supreme Court considers that if a party 
refuses to proceed with the trial when ordered by the court, the 
court very properly lionsnits him, which the district court has 
declared to be the effect of the dismissal of the case on the 15th 
December. 

With reference to the affidavits that the district judge 
declared he would not postpone cases because the advocates 
were employed in the Supreme Court, this court has no right 
to expect uie district court invariably to do so, as it would 
oftoB have the effect of doung the diitrict court for want o£ 
business to proceed with, but it feels that with such a limited 
number of advocates as there are practinng in Colombo the 
district court ought upon such oocasiicms and in difficult and 
important cases, which can hardly be conducted by the proctors, 
to yield to circumstances and allow a po6t]^ement. 

It is therefore conmdered and adjudged that the judgment 
of the district oourt be set aside. Costs to be costs in the oause. 



D. C, Galle, 
No. 11,308 



.} 



Juamt a^d others v. Simon and others 



Temple, J. — ^It is very difficult in this country where lands 
so much subdivided, to get all the parties before the court. 

" If at the hearing of a cause it appears that the proper 
pardes are omitted, it is discretionary with the court either to 
Bon-Buit, or give leave for amendment, by adding the necessary 
parties;** 1. Harriion^s Chameerjf Practice 76; but it is in this 
country the practice from the often^impoesibiUty of joining all the 
parties to give judgment for such portion only, as the plaintiff 
may prove himself entitled to. 



March 7. 



105 



*.^ Supreme Court D. C, Colombo, ) .«» >^ ri ' ti^j j- 

Tuesday No. 123. ) ^^^ ^^^ ^* ^^^°V^^ Eduljee. 



Tuesday 

Minutes," 
1848. 

March 18. 



Temple, J. — The fir^t point which has been raised for 
consideration in this case is, whether the marginal notes on 
the survey can be received in evidence. This court considers 
these notes as only explanatory of the survey and therefore 
forming part of it. 

The points then for consideration are, 

1st. — Whether the verandah in question forms part of the 

highway? 

2nd. — If it does, can defendant prescribe for it? 

3rd,— lias defendant obstructed it? 

This last is admitted in efiEect by the defendant. 

Now as to the first point it appears that the verandah has 
not been included in any of the title deeds or surveys of the 
defendant's house since 1784, although in some of the later ones 
it is dotted off. In all of these deeds the wall of the house has 
been described as the limit, having for its northern boundary 
the high road. This is in itself conclusive that the portion 
occupied by the verandah forms part of the high road, but it 
is further confirmed by the facts that the verandahs in the street 
will be without a right line continued from the wall of the 
burial ground to the belfry, these being two ancient buildings. 
If then it forms part of the highway the obstruction of it is a 
public nuisance, which in no case can be prescribed for. 

Another ground of objection relied on by the defendant is, 
that from the length of his possession of the verandah, a grant 
ought, both by Engligh and Dutch law, to be presumed. The 
Supreme Court however considers that such presumption can- 
not exist, as no grant can be made to divest the public of their 
right to a highway. 



Augt. tr>. 



P. C, Colombo. 
■ No. 11,096. 



} 



Oibson V. Silva, 



Oliphant, C. J. — The judgment and sentence of the police 
court are set aside. The question in this case is, did 
the defendant use a carriage for the conveyance for hire 
as a public business of any goods, or did he use a carriage 
for the conveyance for hire, pro hac vice, of any goods. 
If *• as a public business" the defendant ought to have had 
a licence, if pro hac vice none was required. A certain 



loO 



obacurity may have crept into the ordiuance bj reason of 
the words " as a public business" being only understood and 
not expressed after the words " for the conveyance for hire" in the 
8rd line of the 6th section. If these words are not to be sup- 
plied in the 6th sectioD, then the intention of the Ordinance, as 
declared in the 2nd section, is completely altered , and every 
one hiring out his cart for a job, as to bring a load of bricks or 
t^move earth from the foundation of a house, would be obliged 
to have licence, whereas the wordi used in the 2nd section are 
those constituting the definition of a common carrier in the 
English law. The defendant was a contractor with the superin- 
tendent of police to do a pskiticular job, and he was not at the 
service of every individual who pleased to call upon him to 
carry for them, which is the case under certain ^estric^ions 
with those who convey for hire as a public business, they being 
in fact carriers, and incurring the liabilities and responsibilities 
of that calling. Upon this ground the case is decided, but surely 
it is very questionable whether goods were carried. Can rubbish 
removed to be shut out of the way or burnt be called goods ? 
Cah a person carrying away a nuisance for which he receives a 
remuneration for bis trouble be called a carrier ? The court 
inclines to think these questions must be answered in the 
negative, but it serves no purpose to consider this point. The 
court is clear upon the other question. 



Supreme Court 
Tuesday 
Minutes," 
1848. 



D. C, Manaar, \ 
No. 4,687. f 



Sleyma Lehhe Vr Lebhe Tamhy, 



Temple, J. — This is an action not to try right of property in 
the land in question, but to be restored to the possession of it. It 
is an action peculiar to the Dutch law by which a party, who has 
been interrupted in his possession, may be restored to it if he 
makes his complaint within a year, to be reckoned from the day 
of his having been turned out of such possession, but if he 
leaves the party who has turned him out in possession for a 
year, he loses his own right of possession, whatever such right 
may have been and he then retains only his right of action for 
the property. In the viva voce examination of the plaintiff it 
should have been kept in view that it was the right to possession, 
and not the title to the property, which was in dispute ; and 
those questions only should have been asked which bear upon 
that point. But the questions which were permitted to be asked 
had reference to the question of title and ought not to have been 
allowed. 



Got. 14. 



107 

"Supreme Court PC Ja^^l Armoffom & n^^er v. Wayr^. A odi«. 
Minutes," ' * ' 

184& TsMPLE^ J. — Judgment and lentence set ludde and case re- 

— maaded to hear defendants' other witnesses, or such pordon of 

^^' ' * them as the magistrste may see fit. 

^ The police magistrate is not bound to hear a long lint of 

witnesses when satisfied that the prosecution^ or defence,, aa it 
may be, is false, but considering it possible that the first 
witnesses called upon whom reliance is placed may have been 
bought over by the opposite side^ it is advisable tliat the court 
should have as much evidence as will preclude all 
doubt. 



Xov. 21. ^'^^^ Ka°^7, I SupermaniinY. Thiodoris Appu. 

Tekple, J. — When a rule nisi requires cause to be shewn 
upon a named day, as in the present case, the opponent sfaould 
have the whole of that day, and therefore the rule cannot be 
made absolute until on or after the next day, and then or on 
Boms day afterwards a motion must be made to make it absolute 
or it would never be so. 8 Chitty, General Practice 576» 



Dec. 6. D. a,^Colombo, | ^^^ q^^ ^ Sidemberem. 



Tbkplb, J. — The judgment of the district court is set aside* 

The accused brought an action against two defendants^ oi 
whom the first defendant was arrested in mesne prooess-and being 
unable to give the required security, was committed to g^sol on 
the 20th December 1847. 

On the 2nd day of June 1848 the plaintiff (present accuaed) 
issued a sununoas upon the first defendant to appear and answer, 
he still being in gaol, the fiscal's officer to whom this summons 
was intrupteo by the fiscal for service called upon the acOTaed 
to point out first defendant fth^r being no order on. accused to 
point him out) when the accused said he had gon^ to the coast. 
It is for this Adse information that the district Qourt baa found 
accused gupty of contempt-^-hence the presetit appeal. 

In order to establii^ the charge of contempt aga^ist the 
accused and appellant, it must be shewn that it was the duty of 



lO.S 



Tuei 
MinutesV 
1848. 



the accused to have pointed out to the fiscaVs officer the abode *' Sugreme Court 
of the party named in the summons. A contempt of court 
commonly consists in a party not doing what he is commanded 
to do by the court. But it is not to be deduced from this that 
a request made by a ministerial officer of the court is to be con- 
aidei^ in the light of a command emanating from the court 
itself. In this case it was the duty of the fiscal to serve the « 
summons upon the defendant and he might in so doing seek the 
assistance of the party upon whose motion the summons issued, 
but such party was under no legal obligation to afford him the 
required assistance and consequently the refusing to give infor- 
mation or even the giving false information would not be a 
contempt of the authority of the court out of which the pro* 
cess issued. 

The attachment moreover against the accused for contempt 
should have been refused, it not appearing that the party sougbt 
for could not be served with the summons in consequence of the 
false information given by the accused, hut on the contrary the 
party accused was at the time in the custody of the fiscal who 
could therefore have served the summons irrespective of any 
information received from the accused. It does not moreover 
appear that the party against whom the process issued, suffered 
any injury from the conduct of the accused. It was an un- 
necessary summons merely calling upon him to do that which 
be ought long before to have done of his own accord, namely, 
to appear and answer the plaintiff's claim and the service of it 
upon him would not have released him from gaol whieh could 
only have been effected by his either giving security or pressing 
on the suit and obtaining a judgment in his favor and neither 
would the non-service of the summons upon him have the effect 
of prolonging hia imprisonment. 

The Supreme Court for these reasons does not consider the 
accused guilty of a contempt. 



D G Colombo ) In the matter of the bankruptcy of jPniNcif 
' No 6 119 ' C Hudson and others. 

* ' ' ) William Tkcmpsofij appellant. 



TsiCFLEy J.-^Tbe order of the district court ia affirmed. 
The question for consideration is whether the district court 
could order the assignees to pay the appraisers their usual 



It has been contended that these expenses are to be paid 



Dec. 29. 



1848. 



Iri9 

"Supreme Court by the petitioning creditor and not by the assignees and that 
Tuesday this order was improperly made, because no notice of the intend- 

i^io^' ed application to the court had been served npon the assignees. 

The Supreme Court considers that the district court could 
make this order for payment of the appraiser's expenses upon 
the assignees. 

There is nothing express in our local Ordinance as in the 
English bankruptcy act (which has been referred to in argument) 
to make the petitioning creditor liable for all costs and expenses 
incurred up to the appointment of the assignees. 

The petitioning creditor is called upon to give security to 
indemnify the alleged bankrupt, should the act of bankruptcy 
&c. not be sufficiently proved and to make a further deposit to 
defray the costs of the proceedings, until the seizure of the 
bankrupt's effects. 

The petitioning creditor appeals to be released upon the 
fact of the bankruptcy being established, when the court issues 
an order for the appraisement of the bankrupt's effects which 
are handed over to the assignees upon their appointment, a 
provisional assignee being appointed in the mean time by the 
district court, should circumstances require. The assignees 
being entrusted with the management and disposal of the bank- 
rupt's property, the court, can make an order upon them for the 
payment of the appraisers. 



X) C C ] h 1 Jnmeanx and another v. Thompson and 
N ' S 1 n ' C others, assignees of the bankrupt estate 

' ' ) of Francis Hudson and others. 

Temple, J. — The order of the district court is affirmed. 
The district court made an order upon the assignees of the 
bankrupt's estate to pay to the appraisers a sum of money due 
to them for appraising the property of the bankrupt, this sum 
the assignees have refused to pay and the appraisers have in 
consequence brought the present action. 

The question for consideration is whether this action can 
be maintained, or whether the plaintiffs are confined only to a 
more summary mode of obtaining payment. 

From a perusal of all the numerous authorities which have 
been referred to in argument, the Supreme Court considers that 
an action is maintainable upon an order such as the present one 
which is in the nature of a final judgment being for the payment 
of an amount, which had a foundation prior to the order, and 



110. 

not merely arising out of the decree. Bj this order a legal " Supreme Court 
obligation has arisen upon the assignees to pay, which obligation Tuesday 

is a sufficient foundation for this action. 

Cases cited : Emerson v. • Lockbyy 2 H, BlacksL 242, 
Smith V. Wholly, 2 B. ^ P. 422, Fry v. Molaten, 4 Taunt. 
Jr. 705, Rome V. Green, 2 Coup. 474, Carpenter (ft Torw, 3 
Barn & Aid. 52, In re Dillon, 2 Schoales & Lef. 110, Hartoss 
V. Jakes, 2 M. & Sel. 438. 



Minutes, 
1848. 



Petition of Bastian prisoner in the gaol of Galle, 
Oliphant, C. J. — The Supreme Court is of opinion that 
petitions of appeal in cases of contempt of court are not 
required to beiir any stamp, as the proceedings are in such 
cases of the form of those in criminal cases and such petitions 
have invariably been admitted without stamp. 



" Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes," 

1849. 

Way 19. 



P. C, Galle, ) x> JL 1 r 

N 8 42 1 I ■Sooahamy v. Juan. 



Temple, J. — The plaint is improperly drawn. The desertion 
charged, though it may have commenced six months ago, is a 
continuing offence and must be considered as repeated every 
day that it continues to exist. In the plaint the offence should 
be stated as existing on some date within one month previous 
to the day of lodging the complamt in order to bring the case 
out of the operation of the 22nd clause of the Vagrant Ordinance. 



July 24. 



D. C, Kandy, 
No. 20,757 



' I Supermanien v. Telenis Appu, administrator. Augt. 7. 



Temple, J. — The order of the district court of Kandy is 
set aside. 

The Supreme Court has already decided in this case on 
2l8t November 1848 that a rule nisi should not be made 
absolute until after the day on which cause is required to be 
shewn, and then only upon a motion made for that purpose. 

The district court of Kandy appears to have put an in- 
correct construction upon the 83rd clause of the first section of 



Ill 

** Stipfetne Court ttie rules in making a rule absolute on tlie return day, unless 

Tuesday the opponent appears and moves for four days further time. 

^^ fi°^'" If this section is acted upon (which in some respects is 

1849* different from the mode of applying for a rule msi which pre- 

*^ vails in Euglish practice and is now generally adopted in this 

oountry) the Supreme Court considers that in no case should 

the rule be made absolute at once, but that if a party do not 

shew cause in the first instance, he should be allowed the four 

days provided by the rule, whether he appears and moves to 

that ^ect or not, and that the rule should not be made absolute 

until on or after the fourth day. 



^^- ^' ^*1^' 1^18* \ ^^^^ ^' ^*^ Ukkoova. 



In this case the Supreme Court sees with astonishment 
that an advocate (Mr. Edema) has not only done the business 
proper to an advocate, but also that proper to a proctor, though 
he certainly does not charge the fees for the latter, and the 
court sees with equal estonidiment that the district judge 
sanctions such mode of doing business ih direct contravention 
of the 1st clause of the rule of court of 25th November 1835, 
which provides that no advocate shall be allowed to practise as 
m proctor. The Supreme Court trusts that such a course will 
not be pursued in future. However irregular Mr. Edema's 
conduct may have been, being an advocate he is entitled to the 
fees for the work performed by him in that capacity. 

In considering the bill of costs and the taxation of the 
district court, the 1st item retaining fee, one guinea, is 
allowed on evidence being given that it was paid. 

The 2nd item, considtation before advising defence, one 
guinea is disallowed, this evidently was only a conference with a 
client, which had Mr. Edema been a proctor would have been 
allowed to the extent of £7 according to the table of fees for 
proctors. 

The 9rd item, advising defence, must also be disallowed 
altogether as payable by the plaintiff, but will be allowed to 
Mr. Edema as payable by the defendant, provided a vrritten 
statement of the defendant's case be produced, in which Mr. 
Edema's opinion is requested whether the defendant have a 
good defence, with Mr. Edema's opinion advising the same sub- 
joined, and then only to the extent of one guinea. 

The 4th item, perusing signing and settling pleading, one 



r 



H2 

E'bm imut be allowed the work haying been aetuallj done by *^ Supreme Court 
• Edema, and euch being advocate's work* Tuesday 

The 5th item consultation upon evidence preparatory to ^I o^i^** * 
trial, one gninea, must be disallciwed as when an advocate is lo49. 

paid a fee for consultation, it is understood that there must be 
smother advocate with whom to consult. 

The 6th item breef fee on trial two guineas, must be 
allowed and therefore the bill, as now settled will stand thus. 
[And the bill is given.] 



Tehplr, J ,— The Supreme Court does not consider that 
m peon on the establishment of a district court is punishable 
under the 7th clause of tlie Ordinance No, A of 1841 for 
absenting himself from bis duties without })ermi8sion. A 
menial or domestic servant being one who Uves under his 
toaster's roof* 



Carr, C. J.,— The Supreme Court has in a collective case 
in 1835 decided that the right of UHmptissement is not a matter 
of practice but of law — and th?it as forming part of the law of 
Holland at the time of the cession of the Maritime Provincee^ it 
had been introduced into and might still be enforced within them, 
but at the same tin^e the judges expressed a doubt as to whether 
this law existed in the Kandjan provinces. See Marsh. Dig. p. 
4^4. No case having since occurred in which the correctness of 
these ofiinions have been questioned, the Supreme Court sees no 
ground to deviate from them or to hold that this law can be 
enfmrced in the present csae. 



*^-Saprome Court 
Tuesday 
Minutes/' 
1850. 

Augt. 31. 



8«pt. 17. 



Garr, C. J., — ^The defendants were clearly entitled to 
Appear gratia without being served with a summons. See Fdl 
r. CMfntl Oolleg4, 2 Bro. CXC. 278 and WtUtm- r. Tkrel/all, X 



Sept. 34* 



11& 



•'Binmnie Court Sim. and St. 187. In the former eaee the Lord Cniauxuxm, 
ToeecUy obsenredy-^*' I have no notion that a party made a defendant 

^^aKfT' ^ ^^^ court, may not appear gratia^ and get rid of the suit as 

ISoO. HQQQ „ jj^ can.'' 



KoT. 26. 



No-Ws-' } Seneweratner. Louis, 

CaBB, C. J., — That the order of the district court of Galle. 
of the 5th day of November 1850 is set aside, and it is ordered 
that the bill of costS; which is complained of, be taxed by the 
registrar, and his report therein be transmitted to the district 
court. On complaints of exorbitant charges in bills of costfl^ 
the Supreme Court always, exerei^s great vigilance as the charge, 
affects, the conduct of the proctf)rSf Moreover, ignorant parties, are 
■0 littble to be misled tber^iQ, from the proctors not objecting to 
eacb other's high charge^ an4 there&>r§ often know nothing. 
sJbout the. hill of costs until exeq^tipn issues for reoovorjt 
thereof. 



« Supreme Court D, C.. Battiealoa, 1 « » , nr. » • 
Wsday ^^^[ n 283 [ ^^^^^V ^' -^»«*o'«« 
IlinuttSi*' • » • ' 



^^ Caimi, p. J.,— The. money is alleged in the lib^ to, 

Vab 11 hBHWj^ 1)eeo paid for t^e. procurement of a place under Govem- 

■i ' " ment^ an^ the eont^^;tl. iei an illegal one — rso that plaintiff 

heixkg ijfX pctri delicti qannot. recover the money back from 

%he 4^f€tndani in this, action on the ground of the de- 



^o!fnfr,2f^f, 32J, PvwjRlM, 464, 



t«b. 19. \a'Sfm!^'}' 'P<?-«:« ^- 4^«'««*» "P<^«^ 



CIabr, C. J.,— The order of the district court of Colombo of > 
tho ^%h day of December 1850 is set aside with costs and the 
plaintiff ^ip ordered to amend the libel by setting out the parti* 
crilars of the firaud, and* also stating in wl^t respects the. 



114 



defendant, as an officer of the fiscal, had acted irregularly and 
contrary to the advertisement of sale. 

It is an intendment in law that a person is innocent of a 
fraud, and a public officer is presumed to do his duty, therefore 
the party insisting Upon the contrary ought to state it fully in 
the pleading ; moreover evidence should be admitted to prove 
only such grounds of fraud as are stated in the libel, 6 Pr. 240, 
J 8 Vefc 802, Ba^. Ch. 480. 



a 



Supreme Ooori 
Tuesday 
Minutes/' 
1851. 



C R., Kumagallei 
No. 727. 



I P^rira t. Sin^ Naid$, 



Carr, C. J.y — ^The plaintiff h&ii no right to recover 
rent from the defendant for the use and occupation of the 
house in question, as it was btiilt by him with leave 
of the owner, and the claim in the libel and the decree 
in the case No. 10,900 in the district court do not extend 
to the house which by the Eandyan law the defendant might 
Btill possess as having been built by him, although the 
owner recovered possession of the garden, and even on being 
ejected, he wotild still bie entitled to remove the materials. See 
Armour 2d6. The parties must be referred to the district court 
to settle their mutual claim^ ad the court of requests has no 
jurisdiction thierein, because the rights ih future of the parties 
clearly will be bound by the judgment, even if th^ title to the 
portion of land on which the house stands be not still involved; 
with the right of way to the house. Opon the plaintiff bringing 
his suit in the district court, his title ought to be most anxiously 
and strictly scrutinized, as it appears that he claims by purchase 
firom the former owner, who recovered the garden from the 
defendant in a suit, wherein the plaintiff acted as proctor. Wood 
V. DonneSf 18 Ves. 120; Bellew v. JRussetl, 1 Ball and B. 96 1 
Wright V. Profid, 18 Ves. 188. 



Feb. 19: 



i>. 



'i& 4^Ut! \ '**'>*'^ ^' AyenpulU. 



^XXFLE, J.,—- 6y the Boman Dutch law parents cannot 
legally make a donation in favour of children who are still 
minors and under their tutelage, but from the statement of t^e 
asseseors that such donations are made, it should be open for 



Feb. 36. 



• 

115 



<'6m»m«C6iirt ilie pkintiff, aiioiild he be ao achrifled, to thow aft the Immii^ of 
.TP**^*3^.. the caee that there exists a local customary law snperiedii^ ihit 

Roman Dutch law upon the subject. Vander Uaden 214, 
OiotiuB 2M, Voet B. 29 p. 5, a. 6, 1 Domat IM. 



Minutes, 
1851. 



If arch 26. 



Ti r r^u^wm. ) ^° ^® matter of the goodi abd diattela idf 

No! % 02?! [ ^ ^^^ ^^ Danl'haip OaneukMSinem' 
* J TQtMf deceased. 

Templb, J.,— In this case the appellant haa been attached and 
fined for an alleged contempt. Great delay having taken place oh 
the part of the administratrix in settling the^ estate the respondent 
one of the heirs moved the district court and therefore the fiscal 
was directed bj the court in the following terms^— '' To neizm 
and sequester the houses, lands &c., and to retain and secure the 
same and also that jou do prohibit resthiin and prevent any 
person or persons from proceeding on or erecting any hoiise or 
other buildings in and upon any oi the garden &e.f and to give 
due notice in writing or otherwise to all persons in whose posses- 
sion or power such property of the estate shall or may be, 
requiring them to reserve and retain the same, and all issue% 
rents profits and intereat according therefrom and to abide the 
order of t^is court*'* — no mention being made of Any person ttr 
persops whom the liscal was thus to pronlbii and restrain. 

From the fiscars return it appears t}iat he had prohibited 
the respondent who had erected a hoiise in one of the gardens 
named in the order froin proceeding on with any further worka 
therein till further orders, but he had heard that siDce such 
prohibition the respondent had carried on certain additional worka 
to the house he had erected by putting up a door and window 
shutters to it, and making the fioor of clay and residiDg in it. 
j^or this alleged contempt the appellant Grebe has b^eu attaclied 
and fined upon the motion ol the respondent ^AIwib, the heir 
of the He ceased.) Hence the ph'sent appeal The Supreme 
Court does not consider that the offence can be conKidered 
in the light of a contempt of court. The order is not 
an injunction from the court on the appellant enjoining hia 
from doing certain acts the disobedience of which would be 
a contempt of court, but an order to the fiscal to sequester 
certain property and further to require the persons in whose 
posReHion such property may be to reserve and retain the same 
Ac. It cannot therefore under such circumstances be consider- 
ed a contempt to have put a door and windows to a house #faiGh 
he waa thua directed to take care <tf . 



hi 



^* JBUpraiba CoHtii 



TevplIi J.»^-*The second defendant as the heireri of the 1847; 

deoeMed wife appeab np6n the ground that she ought not to he _*^ 

condemned to pay the whole deht but only one moiety. The judg« ^ 

ment does not entitle the plaintiff to recover the whole amount 
from second defendant. It complies with the prayer of the plaint 
and gives judgment for plaintiff against the defendants generally; 
The plaintiff therefore can only recover the debt in such a waj^ 
«8 he is by law entitled tlx llie law upon the subject being as 
follows ^' although it has been agreed that every one of the 
debtors should be bound for the whole debt, yet it is neverthe- 
leM divided amc»ng them, and the creditor cannot immediatelr 
sue anyone of them for the whole debt, but before he demands 
from one the portions due by the others he ought to discuss 
every one for his own portion, and he may afterwards recover 
the portions of those who are not able to pay from the other 
remaining debtors." Domat p. 890, Bk. 8, Tit. 8, 8. 1 Art. 8; 
Grotiue p. 291. B. 8, C. 8, sec. 8. 



?In the matter of the goods and cliattle§ of 
the estate of the late Oame Eiiegew 
w. in7 / '^^^^re Hamy deceased. Kanetteg^ ^7 1*- 

1 Appoowa and Oame Etiegey Appoa v. 

/ Megiil ManUmanea Pulle. 



No. 107. 



Temple, J., — ^The order of the district court of the 26th 
dajf^ of March 1851 is set aside, and it is ordered that the 
iieveral writs of injunction dated respectively 80th October 1850 
and 8th November ld50 be dissolv^, and it is further ordered 
that the administrator Megal Maselemanea Pulle to the estate 
of the late Game Ettegey Dingere Hamy do not sell any of the 
lands or houses belonging to the Said estate without permissioii 
first asked and obtained from the district court of Ratnapura. 

It appeahi that on the 80th October 1850 and on the 8th 
November 1850 Kanettegey Appoowa and Oame Ett^ey Appoa 
madd application to the district court and obtained injtmctioiMi 
to restrain the administrator from selling certain lands which 
th^ alleged in their several applications supported by iheir own 
affidavits belonged to them respectively. 

The district court grimted these injunetions snd eubasquent- 
ly en the 25th March the adminittrator moved the eonri %e 



117 



^Supremf Cou'^ rliB<»olve theso injunctions, this motion was vefosed, and hence 



Tllc "i.. 



J. to . i '..^ . *>• ■» Ci )" i. [ , 



**'^^' '^ I' A^. ;j'*..ia; u.a £.)!• tho iiijuDctions had in addition to 

*°*'** uIm I. ..>.t :-. .sjti.l.)ns that the Ian i was theirs commeaced pro- 

"^ ceediiijs to estabLii^h their rights, tho district court could 

theu hikve restrained ihe administrator from advertizing the lands 
for sale until the right was decided, but a mere assertion of 
ownership though upon oath is not sufficient to warrant the 
granting an injunction at all, xnore particularly an injunctioA 
like the present. 

The Supreme Court would further remark that it is not in 
all cases necessary that proceedings should be commenced before 
an injunction can issue. For the district court can grant an 
injunction to prevent any irremediable mischief which might 
ensue before the party applying could prevent the same in its 
regular course. The Supreme Court feels the truth of the 
district judge's remarks as to the Mray in which admitustraton 
often dishonestly act under the presumed authority of the court 
and reconimends, as a check to such proceedings, that in granting 
letters of administration the administrator should be forbidden 
to sell any of the property without the permisaibn of the district 
oourt. 



1 

iWpt, 23. ^\^'> f? eoT* \ Bawa Marhar ▼ Meera Saihoo. 

No. 14,52o. J 

Temple, J., — The order of the district court of Chilaw of 
the 8th day of September 1851 be set aside. 

The Supreme Court has already by a collective decision 
dated 20th March 1848 decided '^ that looking to the general 
and extensive posvers given under the 29 th and Slat rules of 
oourt seo. 1 and the 14th clause of the Ordinance No. 12 of 
1B43» the mutual exaniination of the parties to a suit may be 
allowed at any time by the court if it thinks fit with all the 
latitude of cross examination.'' 

The Supreme Court considers that in this case the required 
examination should be granted as tending to make the defendant 
better satifi&ed wijth the ultimate decision of the case if it should 
be against him* 



ut. 



p. C, Batticaloa, 
No. 11,446. 



> Cwngeecmdipodj r. Palen. 



u 



TBMn.e, J., — The conrt should not stay proceediag^ on a 
second petition hj a paupei; uutil the costs are paid of a nonBuit 
tti a prior case £or the ^ime cause unless his conduct appears 
TexatiouQ, which under the circumstances it does not appear to 
liaTe been. See Archbold Q. B. P. 1,124 ; 1 Harrison's Digest 
ijHbt, HuUon ▼. Colboy, 1 Tidds. Practice 94. 



Supreme €o«irt 
Tuesday 
Hinutea,'* 
1851. 

Sept; St3,^ 



|.«M** 



D. Q.y Tangalle, I 
No. 1,506. j 



Nanhcmy ▼. Dinekehamy* 



TmrLVy J., — The appeal petition is rejected. It is the set- 
tled practice of •the Suj>reme Court under a recent collective. 
decision not to allov any pauper appeals unleFS on a report of there 
being a good cause for appeal by scipe other proctor than the 
one ezpployed in the suit on the pauper side. It is obvious tha<i! 
a pauper roay have good grounds to institute or defend an. 
action in the court below, yet have no cause for appeal, whilst; 
the proctor who has acted for hiip naay be biased in favor of his., 
client's cause. 



9* R., Colombo, 
No. 12,807. 



! 



MiddUton V. Jansjg, 



Carr, C. J,, — It is too late to question the competency 
of any witness after the party has permitted the examination to 
proceed, as- the court will not afterwards allow the objection to 
be insisted on, because tlie testimony turns out unfavourable; 
and even the -discharge of the witness from the box is 6»id to 
preclude further objection. Rose. Ev. 116, Felltngknm v. 
Sparrow, 9 Dow. P. C. 14L Dewdne^f v. Palmer, 4 M. and 
W. 664. 



Oct. 14; 



MiantM," ' 

^^ * Stabk, J.,-— The order of the diatiict court of KaDdj of the 

Feb. 9. i7th day of January 1852 be eet aaide with coses. 

To authoriae a warrant of arrert against a defendant at is 
tnedUaitong fiigaf there must be a debt due or eome enormous 
personal wrong done to the plaintiff by the defendant; and in 
the case of debt the pUintiff must iiver that he does verily 
believe, and also show by the oath or a^davit of a third person, 
that he has good ground tor beHeving, that the defendant intends 
to abscond or to leave the jurisdiction of the court. 

In the present case the ground .if belief as contained in the 
affidavit of Ensi^rn Anderson is that, on a day not specified, at a 
conversiition — the detaila or purport of yirhicn are also not 8i)eci* 
fied. — in annwer to a question asked, in vords which the 
deponent doth not remember and cannot swear to, — from a 
person to the deponent unknown, the defendant said '' in the 
Severn." 

The" Supreme Court is of opinion that there is here no 
ground whatever shewn by the plaintiff for his belief and that 
the application for the expression quoted both as regards time, 
place and person, as well as its meaning, are matters wholly o{ 
guess and groundless conjecture. 

Moreover it does not appear that the defendant is perspnatt/ 
known to the deponent, he is not once named in the body of the 
affidavit, or said to be known to the deponent who is not a 
permanent resident here, and consequently Ensitrn Anderson the 
de|ionent may be in a total and complete mistake as to the one, 
as he is by his own account ignorant of the other, of the incU- 
viduals who had the conversiition together in the druggists 
shop, on the occasion referred to. 

Further, the Supreme Court is not satisfied that this is a case 
in which a warrai^t of arrest against the defendant as in medita" 
Uone fiigcB could legally i£«iie, because— 1, there is no avermeot 
• of any debt due to the plaintiff by iha defendant* aud 2| this is 

liot a case of such eoonaous personal wrong done ta die pUiutiff 
by the defendant aa to tender the arrest of the dftCendmii 
nece^iary for t(» purposes of justioe. ThwiP •» action fior 
words spoken of the plaintiff as it b alleged and concludes for 
pecuniary damages. No indictment would lie on the words, 
nor any punishment of the person as for a crime, and with re- 
gard to the conclusion for damages^ it is impossible to sav at 
this stsfs ol the proceedings what^ if any, may be awarded, or 



120 



f^ t)i6 oilier hand whetlier the case 108,7 not fail and be dis«> 
missed with costs. 

The liberty of the subject is a precious right which should 
be preserved and protected with jealous care, and not interfered 
with but on clear grounds which do not exist in this case. 

The Supreme Court has still further to remark a discre-^ 
pancj in the affidavit affecting the identity of the deponent in 
the event of a prosecution against him: he is called in the pre- 
amble " Edward Anderson" he signs " E. A. Anderson," 



"Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes/' 

1852. 



D. C, Kurnagalle^ 
No* 121. 



} 



The Queen v. Kauralie. 



Carr, C. J., — ^The conviction and sentence of the district 
court of Kumagalle of the 12th day of February 1852 are set 
aside and the prisoners are acquitted. The court thinks that after 
the offenders have been prosecuted and convicted^ any charge for 
compounding the offence could not be supported, JRex v. Stone 
4 Garr 380 where it is said in the note " the offence against the 
public is not the taking of money, &c. from a thief, but the 
letting such a thief escape without punishment," and see 1 Russ. 
on Grimes by Greaves p. X82 (n. h.h.) and although the evidence 
may shew that the prisoners were present on the spot and there 
abetted the prosecutor in compoxmding the offence it fails to 
establish a conspiracy between them and the offenders* 



March llv 



D.C.,Badulla, 
No. 121. 



} 



In the matter oi the goods and chatties of 
Mootoo Banda^ deceased. 



Cabr, C. J.,-^It is ordered that the proceedings be reman- 
ded back for the appellant to give security in appeal. 

The decree gntnting letters of administration to a party 
establishes the status of such party, and has often been held on 
appeal to be of a definitive, and not an interlocutdcy natiixe; 
and any aD^eration of such de<erea in regard to costs oi^ in any 
other respect cannot be effected by appeal grounded Up<^n an 
uiterlocutory motion at fhe trial, on which no separate order is 
made distinct from the decree. 

Whenever a district court wishes to reserve to itself the 
further consideration of costs, it should expressly retain to itself 
in the decree a power to give further directions as to such costs. 



March 16. 



121 



*' Supreme Court P. C, Galle, \ 

No. 13,946. I 



Tueaday 

HinnteBy" 

1852. 

March 25. 



Oedoema Lebh^ v. Tamhy Saihoe, 



Cabr, C. J., — The police court has no jurisdiction in tlie 
matter, as ind^>endent of the decision of the district court, 
it can issue no order for any boughs of a tree over hanging the 
complainant's house to be cut as being an annoycmce to the 
prejudice of the complainant. 

The 6th clause of the Ordinance No. 5 of 1846 applies 
only to common or public nuisances, or when the offence is 
made punishable criminally, but annoyances to the prejudice of 
particular persons only are not punishable by public prosecu- 
tion as common nuisances, but are left to be redressed by 
private actions of the parties aggrieved by them; .Bums J. tit. 
*' nuisance" s. v. The Supreme Court cannot of course say 
how the right of the complainant may stand after the decree of 
the district court without seeing it, but ordinlarily when trees 
are allowed to hang over ^ neighbour's ground, in such a case he 
may cut off the over hangibg boughs. Ynn Leeuwen p« 20^ 

8.19. 



Augt. 31. ' ''j^ ggy ^ ' J Don V, Bastian Perera. 

Stark, J., — This is a suit brought to recover £2 14*. 
M. for beef sold and delivered by plaintiff to defendant on the 
6th August and 28th December 1851, and to the plaint the 
defendant pleads that he did not buy on credit^ but as plaintiff 
owed him money he bought beef, for that &c. 

In support qt his demand the plaintiff puts in a biU of 
particulars, but this being receipted thus '^ received payment J. 
H. Don August 2nd 1852," the court has at once igiven judg- 
ment for defendant. 

It is clear however the receipt in this case cannot stand as 
evidence of payment so as to estop the plaintiff, or warrant a 
judgment for the defendant, there having been no delivery of 
the receipt to the defendant nor any consideration given therefor. 
Indeed the defendant does not rest on it, and his plea appears 
to be at entire variance with it. See Taylor on fividence 
sections 205, 816 &c. 



122 



P. C, Galle 
No. 14 



lie, J 
,943. I 



Oi$n V* Sinh4> Baba. ' 



>» 






» 



» 



» 



Stabk, J., — ^THe charge in tlus case is ** for smuggling 
tbe following goods viz. two boxes of tea and six boxes of 
tojs from the steamer 3£alta lying in the harbour of Galle on 
the morning of the 18th August 1852, in breach of the 
Ordinance No. 5 of 18S7." 

There the clause founded on is not mentioned, nor the 
character or description of the smuggling intended specified. 
But it has been repeatedly held by the Supreme Court that 
where a prosecution is founded on a clause of an ordinance the 
charge should follow all the material words of the clause, wldch 
ahould also be distinctly stated. See the following cases, 

Mallagam Request Court No. 230 — 14th June 1850. 

Negombo Police Court „ 5,774 — l?th 

Jaffna Police Court ,^ 14,840— 

Negombo Police Court „ 5,293^ — 
«nd the collective cases from Matara No. 8,427, 30th June 1852* 

In the present case the charge does not specify the clause 
of the ordinance, and in none of the clauses referred to by the 
police magistrate, namely sections 8, 59 and 73, does the term 
used in the charge at all occur. 

From the want of a specific charge also, it is doubtful on 
the merits whether the case against the defendants amounts ta 
more than mere suspicion. For if the goods were not contra, 
band, and this does not appear to be alleged, but goods which might 
have been lawfully imported paying duty, how, previous to> 
importation, as in this case, can the smuggling by evasion of the 
duty be satisfactorily determined, and accordingly it may be 
questioned whether to satisfy the term ^'landing" in the 73rd 
elause, mere unshipqiept is sufficient. 

Under all these circumstances and following the cases 
eited, the Supreme Court is of opinion that the judgment of the 
said police court of the 17th day of August 1852 should be set 
aside and the same is set aside a^eordingly* 



*' Supreme Court 

Tuesday 

Minutes," 

1852. 

Sept. 23. 



D. C, Galle, } 
No. 15,108. ) 



Candoe Umma v. Saripadien, 



Stabk, J., — This is an appeal against an interlocutory 
order of the district court that proceedings in the present case 
do stay until the first plaintiff has paid the costs in the suit 



Sept. 28'* 



1852. 



12S 

^'Supreme Court No. 14,122— in which latter suit she waa sole defencbmt anct 
Tuesday ^^ decree went for the present first defendant, then plaintiff^ 
1 Q^Ro"*^ with damages and costs. 

The stoy of proceedings till costs are paid may operate, 
and often does operate, as a security for the payment of sach 
eosts, hut a great object in view also is to prevent the vexa- 
tious acctunulation of costa upon a party touching a matter 
which has'^been or might have been fully heard and determined. 

The present case howerey does not fall within the scope 
and purview of the rule, aa here there ie no such accumulation 
of costs on the same p&rty, the costs in question being due by 
the first plaintiff in a suit which was brought against her by 
the preeent first defendant. Nor is there any ground so far as 
appears to consider the present action at her instance with 
others as vexatious. 

The stay of proceedings in this case would ako operate 
injuriously as respects the co-plaintiffs who are not liable in the 
costs in question. 

It is also by no means quite certain that the lands im 
question in the two suits are one and the same. Order of the 
court below set asidev 



Oct. 1^. V*^ 14 9?9 I '^^^i^^ Ummay^ Silva. 



Carr, G. J., — The Supreme Court cannot find any special 
clause or power in the will to the «iffect stated in the 
petition of appeal, but as the contract wiiii the defendant was 
made by the pkintiff (executrix of the estate of Sekady Markar 
solely and the rent payment thereunder is reserved to her alone, 
she must be consklered as having made the contract on her own 
account and intending to administer these assets without her 
co-executor. The action therefore must be brought by her 
alone, as the contract is incapable of being adopted by the co- 
executor, the plaintiff not having contracted both on her own 
account and as agent of the co^'efeectttor, or generally on account 
of the estate with the view to the ia t crf erence of the co-executor, 
in case he should choose to take a part in the management of il^ 
see Heath v. Chilton 12 M. and W. 603, 18 Law J. 225l 



Cabb, C. J., — The order of tbe district court is set asid^, 185^2. 

"but the costs are to abide the result of the action. — 

The cottrt intimated it» opinion upon the hearing of the ^ * ^' 

arguments of counsel, that as the proof which is wanting to 
shew the^ HalnlitjT ofTthe defendant tapaj the amoimt of the 
note, forms:) an essential part of the- plaintifib' case and is not 
eridenee to> be adduced on the defendant's side, the plaintiff is 
Bot eirtitled to the provisional sentence- elairaed ; as he ought to 
shew thereon a clear primd facie right to hi» demand, the case 
of Randall v. Haupt decided by the Supreme Court at the Cape 
of Good Hope, which has been cited bj the defendant's counsel 
and a copy whereof is annexed to this judgment, appears to be 
in point and in support of this view. The court however haa 
delayed the judgment until it could confer with the chief justice 
on the Dutch law, who coneura m this refusal of provisional 
ientencev 



Randall v. Haupt, 

The plaintiffs in this case claimed provisional sentence 
against the defendant on a promissory note made by one Mitchell 
in favor of the def entjUoit and by him endorsed to Randall and 
produced the bill whidi was dated 3rd October 1843 payable 
six months after date i. e, 3rd April 1844. Produced also a 
notarial protest for non-payment by Mitchell's trustees (he 
having become insolvent and his estate placed under sequestra- 
tion) when presented to them on the 6th of April and of the 
due intimation of such dishonor to defendant on the same day. 

It was admitted that the &th April was Good Friday. 

The attorney gpneral for defendant pleaded want of due 
negociation in respect that the bill had not been presented on 
the 3rd. 

Mr. Ebden in answer maintained that tbe insolvency of 
Mitchell, the maker of the note, relieved the holder from the- 
necessity of presenting the bill to Mitchell or his trustees for 
payment when* due. Secondly^ that presentnLent on the 6th 
April was due presentment. Thirdly, the presentment had been 
made within the days of grace. Fourthly^ he tendered an affi- 
davit to show that verbal intimation of the dishonor had been 
given to djefendant tempestim and that h^ had undertaken to 
pay the note. 



Minutes, 
1852. 



125 

*' Supreme Court The court ( Meuzies and Musgrave J. J. ) refused to 

Tuesday allow the affidavit to be produced and quoad ultra ordered the 

case to stand oyer until the first provisional day in next term, 
in order that the bench might be full. 

PosTEA, Ist August, 1844. 

After hearing Mr. Ebden. 

The chief justice stated that he eonctzrred in the deciaioB 
of the court, refu»ng to allow the affidavit to be produced. 

Mr. Ebden then proceeded to argue in support of the 2nd 
and 8rd propositions maintained by him. On the Srd point 
quoted Wissee Becht. p. 66. 

The attorney general contro quoted Chitty on bills p. 264^ 
2nd ed. Yander Linden's Just, 6&0. Thomson on bills p. 806 
and maintained that if there were any days of grace in thi» 
colony, they must be the days of grace recognized by the laws 
o^ Amsterdam being six day?, in which case the presentment q£ 
the note would have been made too early, and therefore bad, - 
consequently, in that case there would not have been such due 
negociation as would render the endorse liable. 

The court held that there are no days of grace recognized 
in the law of this colony — ^and that presentment three days after 
the note became due, was not due presentn^ent and, consequent- 
ly that there was no evidence before the court of any facts 
which would render the defendant as endorser liable^ and there- 
fore refused provisional sentence with cost« 



Nov. 16. 



Garr, C. J., — The 40th clause of the Ordinance certainly 
states that the license shall be in force "on and from the day*' on 
which it shall be granted, but the same clause previously 
provides that it shall not be lawful for any person to- 
draw or cause to be drawn any toddy " imless he shall first 
have obtained a license" and the whole clause must be con- 
strued together. It is true that the law does not in general 
allow of the fraction of a day, yet it admits the day to be 
divided in cases where it is necessary to distinguish, or 
to answer the ends of justice ; — Com. Pigt. Cocke v. Sholl^ 
5 T. R. 255 The Supreme Court therefore considers that the 
license subsequently obtained on the evening of the same day 
will not legalize the drawing of the toddy in the morning there 



126 



of previously to such license being issued, and that any other ** Supreme Court 
decision would tend only to promote fraud on the revenue by Tuesday^ 

not giving a due construction to the whole provisions of this I'i'^*' 

dause. ^^^^• 



N 9^1*0^ ^' I Ohristiansz v. Femanclo and five others. jjov. 23- 

Trmple, J.,— -The judgment of the police court of the 
26th day of October, 1852 should be set aside and the same 
is set aside accordingly, and the defendant is acquitted, upon a 
charge of theft. ** If there be any fair claim of property or 
right in the prisoner, or if it be brought into doubt at all, the 
court will direct an acquittal — 2 East P. C. 659.'' In this case 
the coconuts were taken from a garden, which belonged jointly 
to the prisoner and his brother — any division thereof that may 
have subsequently been agreed on between theni, could not in 
law be binding, and debar the prisoner, as a joint owner from 
disputing it, and asserting his right to a share in the whole, un- 
less such division was efiEected by a notarial deed, and ah adverse 
title of ten years exclusive possession of the divided portion ia 
dispute could be shewn. 



W*-^«MWM^^ 



.^^«i^j^».^a^M ii>aii 



a^M^t^^mm^m-^^^^^m^^m 



SUPBEME COURT COLLECTIVE MINUTES. 



1846-1852, 



»■■■»! W^W^^ 



tm M i u tm^i^rt^^^mm 



D. C. Galle, \ r J ry • '' Supreme Coui-f 

No. 10,965! f J<^yewardeneT. Grijpps. CGllective, 

Morgan for appellant, Selby for respondent. 1'846 ' 

Per Carr, A. C. J., Stark, J., Temple, J., — The district . ' 

court is vested with a discretionary power of ordering the at- *^ 9g 

tendance of a party to be examined or not as it may consider 

the examination to be necessary and looking to the reasons given 

by the plaintiff for requiring the defendants' examination in this- 

case on the renewed motion and before this court, there appears 

no sufficient ground for the same. 

This court is moreover of opinion that the appeal from that 
interlocutory order did not preclude the district court from 
proceeding on to trial, as fixed for the next day, although the 
general rules and orders require the transmission of records in 
appeal with as little delay as possible. ^ 

Voet says Lib. 49 Tit. 1. c. 8 " non cnim apud nos per ap- 
pellationem ab interlocutoria impeditur ulterior cognitio judi- 
cis inferioris circa causam principalem, pendente super»interlocu- 
toris appellatione" — and in courts of Equity in England the 
general rule is that an appeal does not stay proceedings without * 

a special ground and order ; — Gwynne v. Lethbridge, 14 Ves.. 
585, Hngnenin v. Basley, 15 Ves. 180 and seq,. 16. Ves. 213 and 
216. Wood V. Milner, 1 Jac. and W. 636 and King of Spain 
f. Jlfac^ac?aT 4 Rubs. 560. 

But with a view to maintain a uniformity in the practice 
of the courts on this matter, the Supreme Court is of opinion 
that the principle which appears to be laid down in Sir Charles 
Marshall's notes p. 1 3 should be adhered to, namely, that where 
the justice of the case requires the immediate settlement of the 
point or points raised in any interlocutory order, the proceedings 
should be stayed to allow a judgment on the appeal therefrom. 

The present decree however cannot be supported, as it is 
not only founded on an erroneous view of the law of evidence 
— See Phil. Ev. 2nd vol., p. 299 — but because the district 
court ought to have allowed the plaintiff's motion for a post- 
ponement of the hearing, upon his affirmation that three of his 
material witnesses to prove malice were absent, inasmuch as 
without express evidence of this nature, the plaintiff could not 
safely proceed to trial, although he should succeed in giving 
sufficieDt secondary evidence of the letter in question which he 
was entitled to do. 

Both appeals having. been brought on at. the same time,, and 
the question raised in them being in some measure of unusual 
occurrence in the district courts, ,the costs of the appeals are 
ordered to be costs in the cause. 



129 

iMective Wr.' it i Aft^' f ^^ Chuen v. Haheboo Mdhomadbo. 

w^' Cabb, C, J., Staiuc, J.,, and ^EikrjpE, J.»:-^5fIie cQurt is of 

Dec 23 of^imbn.thftt thin oa^e should gp back for fufth^ it^vesttgation, 

tb^. citown liaring safficiently ^I'oved its right to tba land to 
rteaire tlie dtSendafiit to risbut it by i9oinB evidence Either, 

Iflt.— Of bis baving a probable okim or pretence of titlis 
16 the land, or else, 

2iid.-«*0f bis having cultivated,^ plant^ or otherwise im* 
proved orb^^possessipo, thereof for Uie. period of five years. 

In, the argutn^t of this case, the Depuly Queien.'s Adyocata 
reUed much upoi^ ^' the prjerogative. right, pn, an in^ormatioa q£ 
intrusion, of puttdx^ the def endajat on ^wipg his title i^<4ally/^ 
tibitty Prer. p. 88S— but it appears to be unnacessaiy for the 
court to decide that importisuit question^ of how far this prero- 
gative right extends to, and can be enforced: in the old Kandyan 
districts, because it is clear that this Ordinance has praspribcri 
a difEerent modQ of .proceeding in sumttiarily .x>roceeding under it 
for obibaiaipg the possession of Crown land, encroached on* 

Looking to the provisions of the Ordinance .respecting the 
informatiou; and , the affidavit in support . thereof,, it would ;seein 
that both nee4 ocily; charge a. person^ or persons, withihaving 
Without probable cLaim, or "pretence of Utle en^eted ^po^^or 
ta^en possession of any land belonging to l^r Majesty^ Her 
heirs aijid succes9Qrs,,apdtn^ref ore that th^ CrpMrn need adduce 
evidence only to that effect, ap accoraipg to the genecai rule 
the complainant is required to.p^ove only material and; necea- 
sar;^ avennenf in the Ubel or ii^formatipi:^ and^ any. ma^er of 
jurisdiction should come trom t^O: def e,ndant'***biit the -legidii^ 
ture in this Ordinance, has thought proper to specially di^m^ 
respecting these informfitions for pet|<y encro8,clunetitSy. that ^* in 
ca^e pu the hea^i^^ thereof, it shall be made ito apjpear bf t^ 
e^tainination of the ,pf rty orparties,. or otixer sufficient eyi^eiiQe 
to the satisfaction ot the district coUrt/' (Ord« 12 of 1840, cL-l«) 

Ist-^that the, party hak4; ^tered. or taken possession, 
without any probiEL|}le claim or pretence of title, 

2iiclly-^tHat such parley h^d np{b cultivated, planted or 
otherwise improved an4 hela uninterrupted poss^ioii of wash 
land for the peripd of fivjs.y^^ orupwardsi ''the|i«nct^pt 
otlierwise/' the diMrict court may order the defendant to, deliyer 
up,possession> Now as the dts^ic^ oourt is authorized to pro- 
ceed in fbe absence of ^he defendanjl^ and; in si^ch ey^t it la 
not declared that lees evidence "would, sumcc^ the .oou^t u|; of 
opinion that as the district court can give no judgpiient in fa|ror 



wo 



MinuteB/' 
1846. 



of thtt Crown witjiottt suffiei^t evidence had before it upon the '* Supreme CouK 
abofi two p6int^ it IoUoWb neeeesitrily that th^ onui prohandi CoUeciiTe 
in tlkeM irumtiarir proceedings lies on th6 Ch>wiii to adduce 
ptimdfaeie evidence on both thesd poitits. 

In tke present case thd court i^ of opinion that the Crown 
lias adduced such evidence and that although not free from 
diaerepkncy add objectioia, ted liable to b^ wholly rebutted also 
hj proof on the defendant's part, the evidence, as it stands, 
sufficiently proves the land to belong to Her Majesty and to 
hare nojb been cultivated or possessed for fite years, so as to 
call on the defendant to rebut such proof, and on his failure to 
do so, to Adjudge the defendant to deliver up td Her Majesty 
the peaceable possession of the said land. 

The evidence of the LeSame that he possesses a Govern* 
uent paddy field to which this land is an appurtenance might 
be especially noticed on this point, and his not having taken 
the produce of his land for twenty years, (though claimed by 
him), and its not having been cultivated for that period, tend 
to shew that it must be considered as chena or waste land, 
which under the 6th clauBd belongs to the Crown until the 
ocmtrary be proved. 

Then as tp the possession for five years and upwards. It 
is in evidence that the Lekame never gave the land to Pitchie 
(the alleged vendor to defendant) oi^ to the defendant; that 
Pitchie built « hut thereon about three years before the 
•deiendaat, that he never lived in it, and it stood only for a 
year; that the defendant built his house 6 or 7 months ago, and 
that at the time the defendant was building thei hduse, it was 
waste land, and the KoriaUe then told him that it was Crown 
land. As to the coffee bushes existing here shd there on the 
Umid^ they may have been sbwn by the i>ir^ or put in wheti 
the hut was built by Pitchie and abandoned therewith; and 
without any proof of their being planted, IkyAt age, culture, or 
egoluaive possession of the produce thereof, the court cannot 
ooDsider t£eih a sufilcient evidence of the gard^ having been 
flaated^ improved or cultivated Bor the period of five years 
within the Ordinance. 

The only rsmaining point is the defendant having '' a pre- 
tence of title'' under the deed B filed; as held by the district 
^ttdge^-^but whetlier he has- or not, still remains to be proved 
in the opinion of this court. 

No evidence htts b^en taken yet in support of the deed 
itself and although l^e Deputy QueenV Adtocate his for th6 
•ake of argument (to get the opini(^ of the <^Urt as to the 
effect of sttch deed being produced iaad. proved in evidence) 



■131 

Supreme Court admitted it, the court considers such a deed being proved. 

Collective ^vhen viewed as it ought to be with all the other facts and 

' Minutes," circumstances in evidence before the court, ought not to be in 

■ 1^^^- itself held " a probable claim or pretence of title" within the 

true meaning and construction of this Ordinance without some 
further proof of title by the defendant. 

^' Probable j^ is that which has more of evidence for than 
* against it; which is more likely to be true and substantial, tbaa 
false and unfounded; and a majority of the judges think that 
^ *^ probable" appears in this sentence to be equally applicable 
to " claim," as to " pretence of title" because the latter cannot 
be construed in its bad sense. It is a general rule' that where 
the title to property comes in question, the exercise of a sum- 
mary jurisdiction by a justice of* peace is ousted, see Burns J. 
vol. 1 p. 833 title " conviction," but it is also held that this 
rule ought not to be so extended as to enable an offender t» 
arrest the summary jurisdiction by a mere fictitious pretence of 
•title or an assertion of right, where the party's own shewing, or 
other manifest circumstances, proved the claim to be ground- 
less. The whole sentence ought moreover to be taken together 
and judged by its context, and then the words "probable 
-claim or pretence of title/' will amount closely to " coloura- 
ble title/' 

- In Hunt V. Andrews, 3 Barn: and C. 346, which was an 
action for a penalty — Chief Justice Abbott said " it has been 
"held however in an action brought to recover a penalty, it 
" is sufficient for the defendant to shew that he was acting 
" under the appointment of a person who has a reasonable 
" ground of title to the Manor, for that is what I understand 
" by the words, colourable tiile.^' So in a similar case, Rushworth 
V. Craven MacUll, R. 422 Baron Graham said, "but the court 
" requires the party to shew some colourable title, that is, as I 
" understand it, some prima foLcie evidence affording a fair pre- 
" sumption of title in the person claiming it," and in the first 
mentioned case the court held that proof of a deed of purchase 
' I'eciting prior deeds of conveyance (which were not produced 
with it) did not shew a colourable title, when viewed with 
evidence of title from the opposite party repudiating such colour- 
able title, and having a tendency also to prove that the party 
claiming a right ought to have known and must have known 
that he had no title whatever. 

In the present stage of this case, the court can in justice to 
the defendant express no final opinion whether he has or has 
not bond fide a colourable title. It considers the case to have 
been wrongly stopped, and that the district court should have 



132 

called on the defendant for bia defence, and the judgment is ** Supreme Court 

accordingly set aside, and the case remanded back for further - .?iv .^^^?. 
° -^ Mmutes,'* 

1846. 



investigation. 



D. C, Batticaloa, I ^^j- i n* v ^ 

-Ki \\ KCiSi ( Oodtnho V. Mrs. Koning^ 

Buller for the appellant. 

Carr, C. J., Stark, J., and Temple, J. — The Supremo 
Court is of opinion that according to the prevailing law and 
usage of this colony, deeds in this form " ad pios usus^^ are 
valid, and that the plaintiff as the " Roman Catholic Mission- 
ary at Batticaloa and the manager of the Church and property 
thereof," can maintain this action on such deed, if duly proved. 

The statutes of Mortmain do not extend to the colonies of 
Great Britain, see 2 Burge C. L. 458, Attorney General v. Stewart 
2 Ms. 143, and the Dutch laws restricting donations of this 
description, (Voet. Lib. 18, tit. 1 and 11, 2 Burge C. L, 465 
Van Leeuwen p. 266) do not appear to have been acted on or 
enforced by the English Government in this island (see Reg. 4 
of 1806.) By the Kandyan proclamation all donations and 
bequests of land however to the use of any temple " whether 
vihare, dewale or otherwise" are restrained without license 
from the Governor, and from the recital it appears, that it was 
theretofore customary for such donations to be made with the 
consent and license of the Sovereign's authority. But the Ordi- 
nance (commonly called the Mortmain Ordinance) No. 2 of 
1840 for extending throughout the island these provisions and 
to restrain gifts or dispositions of lands for religious or charita- 
ble purposes,'' was disallowed by Her Majesty. 

From Viner's Abridgment Tit. "Grant" (A) 4, it seems that 
in ancient times a grant "Deo et Ecclesiae," was pood, or if a man 
gives " lauds per dedi et concessi ecclesiae de D" — " this goes 
to the person and his successors, and this construction now pre- 
vails in wills where the intention only of the devisor is regarded 
and it will therefore suffice in wills, if by the description the 
meaning and intention of the devisor is apparent, thus a devise 
** Ecclesiae sancti Andreoe de H" would be a good donation by 
will to the corporation of the person of the said Church; and his 
successors, for such description was sufficient in a " will to ex- 
press the person of the Church and his successors, because 
though not named in the devise, yet he was comprehended in 
it." Powell on Devises vol. 1 p. 338, 10 Co. R. R. 57, 6. In 
the Dutch Civil law, the technical distinction of the English law 



133 

*^HWF%m^pwi in coastruing deeis and coutrluits differently from will% i« bxat 
OoU^tiTB recognized, but the intention is preferred, Vand: p. 192 ; a 
i^fi** deed therefore is not avoided by any misnomer of the donee^ 

lo4p. provided the intention appear sufficiently clear and certain. 

The decree of the court below must be set aside and the 
plea oyerruled with costs, and the defendant is ordered to answeir 
within such time after this cMrder shall have been notified to her 
as the district court may appoint. 



D. C, Kandj, 1 
No. 17,813. / 

Per Curiam : — The interlocutory order is affirmed. Tlie 
Supreme Court is of opinion that Indeevellegodde Unnanse 
cannot, until he be substituted in the place of the late de- 
fendant by an order of the district court, maintain any 
motion to set aside the present sequestration as irr^gtdarljr 
issued or en£6rced, because he has no '^ persona standi" in the 
cause to do so. 

Upon enquiry the Supreme Court finds that it has been 
wrongly stated at the bar, that it is the prevailing practice ii^ 
the district court of Colombo not to revive a judgment unless 
executioicx has not been taken out under it for a year. 

An^ Biioh practice would be irregular. Vand: p. 423 in 
speating of '' citations to hear such execution deci^ed^'says 
^'ti^is takes place 1st when the decree or sentence of which 
fhe execution is sought has bepome jsuperannuated 4^0.'' An4 
2hdly when the party condemned is dead, or by being placed 
under ciiratorship has lost the '^egitima persona standi in 
judicio." In this case the decree, before it can be put in execu* 
tion, must be declared executable against the heir or curator,--- 
and see also Vand: p. 428, Grant C. P., vol. 1, p. 161, White ▼. 
Saywardy 2 Ves. 462, 1 Mer 154 — and the Supreme Court there^ 
fore sees no ground to dissent from its former order requiring 
this case to be revived. 



«* Supreme Court D; C, Galle, \ 
aS' No. 11.238.1 

1847. p^^ Curiam. — The decfee of the district court of Gralle 

ol the 31 at day of July, 1845, is set aside and the case is 
remande4 back for hearing on evidence, and to giV'e judgpcieut 
de novo. 

According to the Moorish law, the age p£ majtoritj is at- 
tained after the expiration or at the completion of the 16th 



lf>4 



jew. Hedaja 8 vol. p. 482^ Macna^hten's M. L. ch: 8 p. 62, 
and bj t&e Dutch law the parental power oeaaes by tacit or 
indirect emaDcipation,. when the children with the preyious 
knowledge of the parent take up r^udence elsewhere and ex- 
ercise openly any trade or ddUng, Vand: 96; Yoet: lib. 1 tit. 
7. 12, 

A4 the plaintifE appears to be 19 years of age, and is 
openly carrying on trade in a separate house of his brodier on 
lus own account, with the knowledge of his parents, the court 
thinks ^tfaat he must be deemed to be no longer under the 
parental powe^^ and that, although he has continued to reside 
with his patents, that circumstance abne affords in thk island 
no reasonable presumption to the contrary in the case of a 
74>ung moorman, who has already attained his full age of 
majoril^ according to his own laws, and is trading sepanttely 
oil his own account, because the custom of the Moors and natives 
in this colony is for the whole family to continue thus to reside 
toother in .the same house until the marriage of the children—* 
and even afterwards. 



" Supreme Court 

Collective 

Minutes/' 

1^47. 



Morgan for appellants. 

J*er Curiam: — The Supreuie Court is clearly of (pinion 
tliat this is not a case for the sumoaary proceeding under. 
t£e Ordinance No. 12 of 1840, and that the district court 
ought not to have made any order thereon against the^ 
defendants to deliver up possession of the lands m^pntionefl 
in the information, because the proof of the long cultivation 
thereof by the defendants, and the payment of the tax of 
one-tenth for the same according to the rate payable on 
private lands, and also the old deeds adduced in their favour, 
sufficiently shew such primd facie title in the defendants, as 
amount to ''a probable claim or pretence of title" under 
the Ordinance. The district judge, moreover, ought not 
thereon to have proceeded to decide under these summai^ 
prqceedingSi whether upon the true construction, of an old 
deed apparently genuine, and where possession has accom** 
panied it, the original grant was absolute or conditional only; 
and whether any condition contained therein had been since 
duly fulfilled or not by the grantees. 

$€i aside. 



"^"Ctive"^ No.G. t The Queen V. Harrmnis de Soyza. 

Minutes," 
l^^'^' Wilmot for prisoners. * 

-. . The Acting Queen's Advocate for the crown. 

Per Curiam: — The motion in arrest of judgment is over- 
ruled, as the indictment is sufficiently supported by the 
evidence adduced. It appears that the words " notarial in- 
strument" occur before the purport of the instrument is set 
out, and being matter of inducement, the record would have 
in England been ordered to have been amended by striking 
out th(B word " notarial," see 2 Euss 0- P, 798 — 9 and note 
(9), and whenever such amendment is allowed, the Supreme 
Court would reject the words as surplusage; as although the 
court has by its rule of the Gth of December, 1845, ordered 
that no objection shall lie to the form of any information in 
any case where such objection would not be allowed by the law 
of England upon any indictment, it has never gone on to further 
declare that all objections, which are valid by the law or prac- 
tice of England shall be equally allowed here. On the con- 
trary, the Supreme Court has always mainly on such technical 
objections to see whether the information stated the .ofEence 
with sufficient clearness and certainty for the prisoner to know 
the crime with which he was charged and to be able to make 
his defence to it; and in this case the information can leave no 
doubt as to the nature of the instrument, viz : that it purported 
to be a deed of sale of the garden mentioned therein, but was 
incomplete for want of the due attestation of a notary, the gist 
of the offence laid therein being that the prisoner in his office 
of notary had fraudulently omitted to seal and sign such 
deed of sale^ 



+- ^^ i). C, Batticaloa, I 

^*"'"- No. 10,448. } 



Po'r Curiam: — The decree in this case is set aside and the 
case remanded back for further enquiry and for give judgment 
de novo. 

It is very probable, for the reasons ably stated by the 
district judge, that the parties in framing the instrument did 
not intend to restrict the first and second defendants from dis- 
posing of the garden by mortgage or sale only, but if the court 
were bound to look to the deed alone, it would not possibly 
hold that the legal effect of the express prohibition thcreia 



13G 



against inor<^g;agiag or B&Uing; extended ako to debar the donees 
from making any gift^ exchange, or other alienation of the said 
garden. On the oon^ary, the Supreme CSourt would be inclined 
to consider that in an ordinary grant, the condition would 
be wholly void as annexed to an absolute gift — but afi the 
document on the face of it is a gift or dowry, another indepen* 
dent question must necessarily arise thereon, which may affect 
the transfer of this garden between the defendants, viz : whether 
by the general customary law of dowry prevailing at Batticaloa, 
the husband cannot even with the consent of his wife give 
away the whole of her dowry property to the sister of the 
husband, and also if a married couple die childless, the dowry 
property does not by such law devolve on the ^donors or tbeit 
heirs. This court has on a previous occasioni in reference to 
the wife's property had to notice the analogy between the 
Thesawalame or customary laws of the Tamils atJafiEna, and 
^he xnstoms prevailing at Batticaloa, and has referred the 
case htkck accordingly for inquiry as to tixQ latter (appeal 
No. 2,942 Batticaloa, 11th November, 1835, and.Str C. Mar- 
shalVs Digest, pages 266 and 94, and 222,) and believing, as 
the Supreme Court does, that the decision of the dbtrict court 
lias met the real justice of the case, it is only desirous to have 
such decree established on its proper legal grounds. 



'^ Supreme Court 

Collective 

Minutes," 

1847. 



D. C, Colombo,) 
- No. 81,535. 3 

Per Curiami-^The acting chief justice having consulted 
the other judges, it is ordered that the petition of the second 
defendant praying for leave to appeal in the above case from 
the judgment of the court below be rejected. 

The judgment of the district court, sought to be appealed 
from in this case, was pronounced on the 30th April, 1841, and 
an appeal was lodged against it by the defendant, but that 
appeal was withdrawn by the defendant's proctor on the 31st 
December in that year, and the present application was not 
n^e until after tha lapse of more than six years and a half after 
the withdniwal of that appiiaL The only.giound on which this 
application is levndedis a miatake in law in the judgment, and 
it is not alleged that there haa been any fraud in die case, or 
that any evidence haa been discovered since it was decided, and 
the plaintifE, who was a purchaser, completed the transfer of 
the property in question after the action, was brought. 



Dec. 29. 



137 



*' Supreme Court 

Collective 

Minutes.' 

liB47. 



f9 



It may alio be urged that although the general law is as 
stated in the opinion of the advocate for the petitioners^ vet 
there are cases shewing that agreements restricting redemption 
to time certain are good, if between members of the same 
familjy as the mortgagor might thus intend to benefit the 
mortgagee } see Bonham v. Newcomb, 2 Vent. S64, 1 Powell, 
Mortg. 128. 

The Supreme Court has also to record that it is not satisfied 
as to the petitioner's poverty and the other alleged, excuses 
tor clelav* 



Minutes," 



No. 20,044. 



\ 



1848. 
March 20. 



JPer Curiam I'^The interlocutory decree is afiirmcd, but 
^vithout costs, as the practice in the Colombo district court 
has been to disallow such examination previous to issue being 
joined, which may have led to the objection being raised in 
the present suit. 

The Supreme Court is of opinion that, looking to the 
general and extensive powers given under the 29th and Slat 
rules of court sec. 1 and the 14th clause of the Ordinance No. 
12 of 1843, the mutual examination of the psirties may be 
allowed at any time by the court, if it thinks fit, with all the 
latitude of cross-examination, and that the practice ought not 
to be restricted to after issue having been joined. 

The court is confirmed in this view by reference to the 
report of the commissioner, Mr. Cameron, who in his 4th re- 
commendation suggests that ''the pleadings shall conmst of 
an oral altercation between the parties in open court," «nd in 
his 6th recommendation, '' that each party shall be subject to 
cross-examination by him in pleading, and as to those relating 
to evidence" and in the reasons alleged for such recommenda- 
tion he observes ** the pleading, if it is to be of any use at 
all, must take place in his (the district judge's) presence. 
The parties must be examined by him, and crof»-examined by 
each other." And Lord Goderick remarks thereon in his 
despatch accompanying the charter, " 1 entirely concur in the 
0th recommendation respecting the mutual examination of the 
litigant parties by each other. In our own courts, the principle 
is admitted, although the method by which effect is given to 
that principle is so circuitous and costly, as to have deprived 
it of much of its real value. Suitors in our common law 
tribucaU can examine each other only by commencing new 



1S8 

suits for that purpose in the Court of Equity, If the object " Supreme Court 
itself be desirable, I can discover no reasons why it should not Collective 
be e£Eected in the direct and simple form which Mr. Cameron 
bas proposed/' Thus bills of discovery of facts resting in the 
knowledge of the person against whom the bill is exhibited , 
or of deeds, writing, or other things in his custody or power, 
are used commonly to enable the plaintifiE to prosecute or 
defend an action at law which may either be pending or in- 
tended.— ^i</: Plead: 83^ 52, and 5 Mad: 18. 



Minutes/' 
1848. 



D. C, Jaffna, 
No. 1,601 



-.] 



Casinader r. Raymond, 



Carr, a. C. J., Stark, J., and Temple, J. — The decree is 
reversed and the plaintiBPs case is dismissed with costs. The 
decision in the former case merely annuls the fraudulent sale of 
the one-third to which the plaintiffs are heirs, but is silent as 
to the relative rights of the plaintiffs and their mother. Under 
the Thesawalame, the plaintiffs could net claim the profits till 
their mother's death, and by the Roman Dutch law the better 
opinion is that the usufructuary does not forfeit his usufruct by 
attempting to alienate the property; although there is one case 
to the contrary, where a father having the guardianship of his 
children and a usufruct in their estate, mortgaged it. " But it 
bas been observed that this decision rests on the particular 
circumstances of the case, and is not sanctioned by any text 
of the civil law, or by any municipal law of Holland." Van 
Zeeimen 142, 3 Burge. 157, Voet, Lib. 7, tit, 4, n. 4. 



March 20. 



Queen v. Dingy Appv. 



17 June. 



This was a case of murder. Upon motion in arrest of 
judgment, — per Curiam: — The court are unanimously of opinion 
that the evidence of Lokuhamy, one of the witnesses examined 
£or the prosecution in this case, was inadmissible: she being 
the wife of the prisoner, according to the custom of the 
Sinhalese, though their marriage has not been registered 
as required by Regulation 9 of 1822 : and that the 
want of registration does not render such marriage generally 



131 

^'Supreme Court invalid, but onlj makes it ine£Eectnal for the purpose mea*- 

Oollective tioned in the drd clause of that regulation. 

Minutes," /pj^^ motion in arrest of judgment is therefore sustained bj 

^^^' the court, and it is ordered, on the motion of the advocate 

( WUmot) for the prisoner, that the fiscal of the southern province 

do discharge the said Dingy Appu from his custody. 



Oct. 11. I>-jC-. B^^"ll»' j. Sanger v. Bahe. 



Pel' Curiam*. — In this case the applicant represents that 
she is the only child by the first marriage of the deceased, and 
prays tliat letters of administration be granted to the seoond 
wife o£ deceased, and if she refuse to take out the same that 
they be granted to her, the applicant. 

The widow of the deceased denies that the applicant is 
(laupfbter of deceased and the court orders letters to be granted 
to the widow and adds " issue being joined on the point of the 
applicant being the daughter of the deceased, parties to pro- 
ceed thereon." 

A motion is then made that the case be set doim for trial; 
nnd the cause coming on before a dilFerent judge who held that 
administration having already been granted to the widow the 
point as to the applicant's parentage could not be tried in tiiese 
proceedings, an appeal was taken. 

This court agrees with the judgment of the court below of 
the 5th July 1847 that letters of administration having been 
granted to the widow, the applicant must resort to a separate 
action to establish her relationship to the deceased. The order 
of the district court is therefore off,rmcd. 



No' 2*67^' I TavifiBaxni v. Yandtr QuchU 

Per Curiam: — This action is against the defendant as tbe 
administratrix of her late husband's estate for goods sold to 
him during his life. The defendant has demurred to the 
action on the ground that it is prescribed by the Ordinance 
No. 8 of 1834. 

It appears that the debt became due on the 22nd July 1844 
and that a part payment was made by defendant's late Husband on 



Ibe 29tli August 1S45, more than twelve months after the cause "Supreme Court 
of action had accrued. The deceased husband died on the 17th £?^^®^*^^,f 
iJanuary 1846, a demand was made by the plaintiff on the 4th fojl?' 

June 1846 which letter of demand was acknowledged by the i-o^o* 

defendant on the 22nd September 1846 ; and the action was 
instituted on the 26th June 1847. 

The point for the consideration of the court is, whether 
the payment having been made more than one year after the 
debt became due, the action can be maintained ? The 6th 
clause of the Ordinance No. 8 of 1834 enacts ^* that no action 
for goods sold and delivered shall be maintainable unless the 
same be brought within one year after the debt shall have 
-become due except (as provided by the 7th clause) the creditor 
can prove any written promise, acknowledgment, or admission 
made, or act done by the alleged debtor within the term thereby 
prescribed for bringing the action and from which the court 
shall be convinced that the debt has not been satisfied." 

These clauses are express in their terms and leave no 
doubt as to the intention of the legislature that no action is 
maintainable except in accordance with its provisions so clearly 
expressed. In this case the action was not commenced till 
nearly three years after the debt became due, and there is no 
admission of the debt either express or implied, within the term 
prescribed to bring it within the operation of the 7th clause. 
The plea of the defendant must therefore be allowed. 



^'S'' 9^}^' \ Don Janis v. Jando and others. 
No. 134. j 

Per Cttnam:— The order of the district court is affirmed. 
This is an application on the 28th February 1846 for parti- 
tion of a garden under the Ordinance No. 21 of 1844, the 
applicant stating that he was entitled to half, and that other 
joint owners named therein were entitled to the other half in 
the proportions stated in the application. 

The commission required by the Ordinance issued on the 
9th December. On the 14th December four owners — who are 
stated in the original application to be entitled to one-eighth 
only— appear and file an opposition wholly denying the appli- 
cant's claim and asserting exclusive title in themselves. 

On the 15th December the commissioners report is filed 
which finds the parties entitled in the proportion alleged by the 



"Supreme Court applicant, viz., the applicant, in one-half and the opponent in 
Collective gmall shares amounting together to about one-eighth. 

m^S** ^^ *^® ^*^ ^*^ ^^^^ *^® ^^^ ^^ hearing the opponents 

^ ordered the proceedings to lie over until the respective rights 

of the parties should be decided by some competent court. 

On the 12th May a motion vfB.s made to rescind the last 
order and was disallowed ; and on the 15th of that month an 
appeal was filed from the order of the 6tb. 

The point made in appeal is on the judgment in case 
No. 74, which is referred to on the appeal. 

On the objection that the partition ought to be limits 
only to the share of the applicant, and not affect other joiot^ 
owners desirous to still hold in common, it is only necessary 
to refer to the preamble of the ordinance and the provisions o£ 
the 10th clause that the commissioners are required " to divide 
the property and to allot the owners the shares to be held by 
each severally,'' and the l^th section enacts that the expenses 
of such partition shall be recovered in the following manner 
** from each owner a share of the costs of partition proportioned to 
the share of such owner in the said property.'' And the 15th 
section allows of sale of the whole common estate '' for the 
benefit of all the parties interested therein." 

The court is of opinion that the 10th, 11th and 12th sees, 
of the Ordinance make no provision for the case of disputed 
ownerships nor contemplated such an event; and if such a case 
arises the parties must settle their rights by an action at law, 
' and the proceedings under the order must stand over in the 
meantime. 



TVT '' -I ^o ^' !• BnlUr V. Koelman and others. 
No. 152. J 

Per Curiam: — The order of the district court is affirmed. 
The Supreme Court is of opinion that the application in writing, 
and the proceedings thereunder contemplated by the Ordinance, 
are of a special and summary nature; unless therefore the 
information £led in this case can be viewed in that light, it 
must be quashed as an irregular mode of application not being 
consistent with the other provisions of the ordinance, and the 
opponents cannot under such circumstances be called on to 
plead to the same, nor the parties be I'equired to proceed to trial 
thereon in the ordinary course of proceeding in civil actions. 

In considering the various provisions of the Ordinance it 
must be observed that the first six clauses relate to wills : the 



U'2 



lHOf dth, 9th and 10th olausea regulate the partition o£ estates 
amongst heirs by executors: the 10th and four following clauses 
relate to the partition of land held in common; and the 15th 
claufle provides in particular cases for the sale thereof instead 
of partition. It has been argued that this latter clause for sale 
must be looked at by the court as distinct from the other clauses 
relating to partition ; but the court considers that it is only 
incidental thereto, and should be read as connected therewith, 
the preamble thereof shewing in what cases this provision of 
sale is intended to be exercised, viz. where ^^ a partition would 
be injurious or impossible." Although the ordinance appears 
from the similarity of language in some of its provisions for 
partition to h^ve been drafted partly from the English Acts on 
the same subject, yet those acts, and the proceedings of the 
English Ck>urts of Equity for effecting a partition are far more 
careful of the rights of all parties interested than the present 
Ordinance, for instance, the act of the 82 Hen. viii. chap. 32, 
sec. 2 provided that no partition or severance to be made there- 
under should be prejudicial or hurtful to any persons, or their 
heirs or successors, who were not parties to such partition. The 
act of Wm«UII. chap. 81, after declaring in what manner a 
writ of partition might be awarded contained a proviso, that if 
any party shoidd within a year after judgment shew good and 
probable matter in bar of the partition, the court might set 
aside its judgment and admit him to appear and plead, when 
the cause should proceed according to the due course of law, 
as if no such judgment had been given. The partition at law 
moreover operated by the judgment of the court of law, and 
delivering up of possession in pursuance of it, which concluded 
all the parties to it, but a partition in equity proceeds upon 
conveyances to be executed by the parties, and requires there- 
fore all owners to be parties to it, to render such partition 
e£Eectual (1 Mad, 828); and since the writ of partition has been 
abolished by the Act 8 Wm. IV. chap. 27, sec. 86 the bill 
in equity is the only mode of efEecting such a division in 
England. 

The plaintiff must thereon state on the record his own 
and the defendant's title, and unless they appear to be admitted, 
or clear on the pleadings, the court first ascertains either by 
reference to the master, or directing an issue, the respective 
proportions and rights of the parties (which is never done by the 
commissioners) and when they are fully ascertained, a partition 
is directed, and the commissioners make the division in those 
ascertained proportions. (See Agar v. Fairfax, 17 Ves. 538. — 
Calmady v, Galmady 2 Ves. 570. — Wilson v. Cook note 1. 



a 



Supreme Court 
Collective 
Minutes,** 
1848. 



143 

'* Stipreme Court Mad. Ch. 329.) In the first, Sir W. Grant obflerved " it seems 

Collective to me to have been soundlj objected, ihat it is impossible ia 

Minutes,*' the present situation to issue a commission; as then it must be 

1848. referred to the commissioners, first, to ascertain their interests, 

and the proportions in which they are entitled, and then to make 

the allotment. The former was never done by commissioners. 

The court is to ascertain the proportions and rights of the parties, 

and when that is done then the duty of the commissioner 

begins to make the division in those ascertained proportidns," 

17 Ves. 548. 

In construing the clauses of the OrcUnance for partition 
and sale, the proceedings of a Court of Equity on partition 
appear to form the safest guide from analogy, to the rehitive 
duties of the court and the commissioners where, the Ordinance 
is silent thereon. And on the 15th clause, the following further 
rules of construction may be noticed. 

JFhrst — The application "for sale must be made by one or 
more owners, and no one else is competent to do so, the court 
therefore is not authorized to make any order of sale, where 
the right of ownership is denied, until the title of the parties 
is first ascertained. 

Second. — The application is of a summary nature, as on 
default of the other owner not appearing, and shewing valid 
objection on a day named in the summons, the court may order 
a sale. 

TMrd. — Such a summary proceeding is obviously ill 
calculated to enable the court to justly define the respective 
rights and proportions of the parties to landed property, where 
they are in dispute: although it may be very convenient arid 
well adapted for the simple enquiry as to whether a sale was 
desirable and ought to be ordered on account of a partition being 
injurious, or impossible in the particular case ; the rights and 
proportions of parties being admitted or first ascertained. 

Fourth, — The commissioner to be appointed under the 
order of sale, is not required or empowered by the Ordinance to 
ascertain the right or proportion of the parties, but on the con- 
trary he is to pay the amount realized into court for the persons 
entitled to the same, and it is to be paid over to them under the 
order of the court in the proportions to which they are entitled. 

Fifth. — In the absence of any express directions in the 
Ordinance, as to hoAv the respective rights or proportions of the 
owner should be ascertained when tbcy are disputed on these 
summary applications, the Supreme Court considers, that the 
proper course is for such contested claims to be tried in an 
incidental suit, and the proceedings on the application to be 



Ui 

Btajed^ m like manner as directed bj the 18th Rule of sec. 1 ^^ Supreme Court 
on daims upon sequeatration. Cpllectiye 

The only two other points that it is necessary to notice are^ ?2itf '" 

let.— Whether the Crown can avail itself of the proTidons of Ivi^* 

this Ordinance ? "~ 

Although mentioned in the district court, this objection has 
not been relied on by the respondent's counsel in his arguments 
on the appeal, and it is clear that the Queen may avail herself 
of the provisions of an Act of Parliament or Ordinance, though 
ahe is not bound by such as do not particularly and exi^essly 
mention her. {CMtty Prerogative 382, 11 Cr. 68, 6. 

2ndly.-<— It has been urged that the Supreme Court may 
make rules, (although not expressly empowered to do so under 
this Ordinance) for regulating the proceedings thereunder in 
conformity with the course taken by the Queen's Advocate in 
this case, but the judges are of opinion that they posses^ no 
such power. 

The Qiieen v. Sinne Lebbe and another. !)•*> ^^ 

Per Curiam: — The prisoner in this case was examined on 
affirmation by a justice of the peace touching a certain theft at a 
time when neither he nor any other person was under suspicion, 
hut when the justice was merely taking information. At his trial 
for the robbery in question, his examination abovementioned was 
tendered in evidence on the part of the prosecution, and object* 
ed to by his counsel as being taken on his affirmation. The 
judge admitted the evidence but reserved the point. The jury 
found him guilty and the matter came on before the collective 
court. The prisoner's counsel contended that statements on 
oath are inadmissible as given under constraint, except where a 
pa^ty is a witness against another charged, but that in this case 
no person was charged, and cited Eex v. Lewie, Buss: p. 857. 
Jiex ▼. Daws, Buss: 856. He further contended that under the 
Ordinance No. 15 of 1848 sect. 23, the prisoner was not at 
liberty to refuse answering questions even though having a 
tendency to criminate himself. 

On behalf of the Crown it was argued that the examina- 
^n even on oath of a person not in custody, and not under 
suspicion is always admissible, and cited Starkie on Evidence 
vol. ly 198.-rl Philips 404, Rex v. Tuthy, 5 Car. and Payne and 
Rex V. Hayward HighfieWe case — Moody's Cr. Ca. And that 
supposing the court should be against him, yet that the prisoner 
having made another statement which was put in and which 
referred to his former statement as being what he had to say, 



Hb 

** Sopremt Court the objection was thereby cured and Buch former statement 

Goffectire rendered unobjectionable, ; 

1^^** Mr. Advocate Morgan in reply, after supporting his f oiin^ 

lo49; arguments contended that as the statement taken on affirihation 

was not read a second time to the jury after it became un^ 

exceptionable, it must be regarded as not having been fbad 

at all. 

This court in considering the admissibility of evidence are 
constrained by the Ordinance to follow with certain exceptions 
the law of England. On referring to all the cases of which 
they are aware, the judges have to come to the conclusion tliat 
at this day in English courts the examination in question Ik 
admissible. The cases down to this year are collected and 
comniehted on in Taylor on Evidence, section 649 et seq. 

With regard tp the Ordinance No. 15 of 1848, the couJrt 
construes the words relied upon to signify that where an answeir 
is demandable it must be given, and that they were never 
intended to form any exception to the general rules of evidence'. 
And lastly that if the examination should have been found in- 
admissible by reason of tl» affirmatioU;^ yet having l)een read to 
the jurv subject to an objection, as soon as that objection was re- 
moved it becatne valid evidence and required not to be read bgain. 
The prisoner will therefore be brought up for sentence. ^ 

[On the S9th December Mr. Morgan, counsel for the 
prisoners, moved for leave to appeal to Her Majesty in Coundil, 
un'd^r the provisions of the 52nd clause of the Charter, against 
the determination of the judges collectively, and prayed that 
until such leave be granted or refused by Her Maje&ty, the 
sentence to be pronounced by the court upon the prisoners 
may be postponed. 

The judges unanimously declared that the m6tion could 
li6t be sustained as the objections talcen on behalf of {he 
priitoers had been fully argued in court and solemnly 
determined. 

The prisoners were accordingly seijitenced. Vide ColtecUv^ 
Mmxttes, 29th December, 1848.] 



Dec. 20. P'^' 75!^^'} 'S'l^v^ ▼• Silva and others.. 

Bahtian de Siha and another — Claitnants. 

Per Curiam:: — It is ordered wilth the consent. of tte advo- 
cates of the respective parties that the order of the Htl^ day of 
August 1846 be set aside, and that the sale of the land under 



146 

the order of the 15th April 1846 be affirmed, afid the amouut ^^Hupre^Qourt 
realiaed by such sale be paid inta the district ciurt* on behalf ^}^^^yfl 
of all persons interested therein. And it is further ordered i^jla*^ 

that the 9aid amount shall be paid over under the order of the -^oio^ 

district court to the applicant^ and other parties entitled to the 
Bi^me in the proportions in which they may be respectiyely 
entitled thereto, after deduction of such sum as the distri<?t . 
oQurt ^hall allow in satisfaction of the ezpeiipes incurred by the 
coonmissionera in and about the said sale and conveyance. 

The 10th and 15th clauses of the Ordioanee require the 
application to describe the names apd residenoeE^ of all p$>rtiea 
interes^d therein ''so far as the sq^me shall be known to su(^ 
o^ner,, or owners*/* the simple omission therefore of any owner's 
name in the application will not in itself render invalid idl 
Bi^haequent proceedings thereunder^ nor justify the district 
court in cancelling a^ order of sale thereon '' quia im|»rovide 
emanavit ;" but if the court had proof before it of the appli- 
cant having acted maid fide in such omission, and that -he was 
not an owner, or that he had intentionally suppressed the name 
of some other owner who was well-known to him at the time» 
with the view of deceiving the court, this would be a good 
ground for the district court's cancelling any order of sale 
f pi^udulently obtained on such a false application, as the court 
can only act on the application o| an owner, and also according 
to the civil law where fraud forms the ground work of tbk 
transaction '^s ipso jure ^ullus e|^ Cumque id quod n^ilkisci 
est, nullum posait effecti^Qa proch^oere" (Voet lib*.iy* tU. 8, 
Gap. 8) the order of sale aiiid all proceedii^gs under it might 
in such ci^e therefore be treated as void by operatioii of law 
and.^ot merely as vpidoble^ iqider the gaoeral swiim, that no 
one shaU take adventage pf his own fraud or wroikg. 

Ill t^ present case i^ is dear that the parties ought to have 
appealed from the ordttr o£ the 11th August 1846, as 4a 'iAi» 
absoAce of all proof of fraud the district oonvt ought not to • 
have proceeded to discharge the application, and thereby in- 
directly to cancel its previous order of sale of the 15th April 
1846, and accordingly it is the interest of all pai^ties concerned 
that an appeal should be &ow allowed from thif order of the 
11th August 1846, and that the said order should be hereby 
set fV^idOf and the sa^e of the land be confirqaied under the order 
of the 15th April 1846, a,s afor^^d. 



^mm 



147 



<'6iipr«mtt Court C. R., Ck>lombo,l 

No. 6,988. f 



Collective 
Minntefl^" 

1849. 

AufQfit 28. 



Thomaofi and others t. Lambs RatnaU 
A Co. 



Ter Ouriainx-^ln this case twenty one plaintifiEs, styled co- 
partners of the coxnpanj called the Cai^o Boat ana Wharf 
ImproTement Company, stand upon the record as plaintiffs, 
claiming from the defendants £4 18^. for landing and housing 
at their request certain goods from a certain ship in the roads. 

The defendants objected, first, that there was a non-joinder 
of plaintilEs, but as this was waived by the defendant's counsel 
it is unnecessary to make further mention of it. Secondly, that 
four of the plaintifEs in the action are not co-partners of the 
oomipany, aind therefore are not properly on the record. Below 
these objections or pleas the court caused the following words 
to be entered '* plea over-ruled/* 

With regard to the irregularity alleged to have been com- 
mitted by the court in over-ruling the plea of mis-joinder, this 
court is of opinion that such plea should have been entertained. 
The court of requests did in fact by over-ruling this plea, pre- 
vent the defendants from shewing, whether successfully or not, 
that four of the plaintiffs had no joint interest with the others 
in the suit, and that they had no claim against the defendants 
in respect of the matter for which the action was brought. 
Now it is material to a defendant that persons be not joined as 
plaintiffs who do not pretend to have any claim against him, 
and whose names may have been placed on the record without 
their sanction, because if the defendant is successful in the suit 
and his costs be awarded to him, be may get into trouble and 
further litigation in endeavouring to recover them from parties 
who arc in £&ct not liable to pay them ; but besides, it carries 
inreasonableness on the face of it, that defendant even in a 
court of requests should not be allowed to shew that he is being 
sued JEuid called upon for his defence by parties some of whom 
have no right to sue him or call for any defence. The court is 
of opinion that on this ground the judgment should be set aside. 



C. R., Matura, 



No! 2,849^*' } ^^*^^Jf ^- «^««^^- 



Per Curiam: — In this case the plaintiff complains that 
trees growing on defendants land injure plaintiff's premises by 
the fidling of branches and fruits, and the court adjudged that 
these trees be cut down, and also adjudged damages to plaintiff 
with the costs of suit. 



H8 



Mintttes," 
1849. 



The queition for the consideration of the collective court '' Suprefie Court 
is whether the court of requests has not exceeded its jurisdic> Collective 
tion in requiring the trees to he cut down ? The Supreme 
Court is of opinion that it has. The Ordinance No. 10 of 1848 
sect. 5 confines the jurisdiction to " all actions, plaints and 
suits for the pajment and recovery of any debts, demands, 
damages or matter not exceeding £5 in value, except. the matter 
in question shall relate to the title of any lands or tenements, 
or to anything whereby rights in future may be found.'' 

The plaintiff prayed and the court granted the prayer^ 
that besides damages and nuisance should be abased; and this 
court is of opinion that under the words '' for the payment and 
recovery of any debts, demands, damages or matter," the abate- 
nent of nuisance cannot be comprehended, that therefore the 
court of requests has exceeded its jurisdiction, and the judg- 
ment must be set aside, with the exception of the damages 
and costs. 



N ' ^ 271 I ^'^^ry ^' Sanmogum and another. 

Per Curiam : — The court is of opinion that there is nothing 
in the agreement b^ween the parties from which it can be 
inferred whose duty it was keep the vessel in repair and the 
court must therefore look to the law on the point. 

A suggestion was made at the bar that it is the custom 
in the Northern parts of the Island for the hirer of a vessel to 
see to the repairs, but no such custom was attempted to be 
proved, and the court cannot take notice of a mere suggestion 
of counsel at the hearing in appeal. 

The Roman-Dutch law is decisive of the question in furor 
of the respondent^— (rfohiutf in his '^ Introduction" Book III, 
chapter 19 section 12, has the following, " on the other hand 
the lessee has a right to the use of the article or to compensa* 
tion for whatever appertains to him therein, consequently he 
may legally compel the lessor to keep the property leased in 
good ordctr, so that it may be applied to its common purposes, 
this the lessor must do at his own expence, and should he 
n^lect to do so the lessee may deduct the repairs from the 
amount of his rent, or he may abandon the use of what has 
been hired to him," and herewith agrees Domat Yol. I. Book L 
tit. 4, sect 8. Articles 1 and 1.— Story on Bailments sect. 888. 
The decree of the district court is therefore affirmed. 



Augt. 28, 



149 
'«8apr©ifit Court D. C, Jaffna, ^^ T^^^^i^* * rK.**:^^ 

^^^' Ptt C^n<im::^Be(orer deciding tliift case it it awessary that 

"^ tita Sit^6iB« Court be Stilly informed in resttect of ttte- custom 

r^tive to aeiiedtil^ of orders on transfers of landed* property^ 
Th6 infonnation requii'ed is ytr«<— Whetlier by tlte custom a 
purd^tser is bound to take conreyance of lands sold to bim, 
to which tbere is no other objection, except that it is not accom- 
panied by the Udeyar's schedule ? 

Secend,-^la it the custom of notaries to pass transfers of 
lands wi^ottl the-^duction of suc^h scheduler 

Third. — Has it b'^en the invariable o^ustom for the fiscal 
ff oAi time immemorial not to sell' lands taken in execution 
Mrititeut the production of a ^Schedule ? 

Fcwrifi, — ^Has it been ^e invariable custom of the fiscal 
from time immemorial not to seize lands in execution without 
the production of a schedule, and if not from time immemorial 
in the two last mentioned cases when did such custom com- 
mence? 

Fifth, — To what local limits is the custom of requiring 
schedules confined ? . 

As the regulations for the guiding of the fiscal make no. 
sating of the icustom in question, and mre therefore in the 
creditor^ fisYor on the point under consideration, the court can 
only apply to the fiscal for proof of the custom, and the regis- 
trar is directed to ir^d such application. 



ttmmm 



In re Mkry Elizabeth Atkm$0n, late wife of Joseph 8an»oni^ 
*No 216 i ^a»^^*wa5»l v. San^ni, 

Per Curiam :^ln this testamentary suit letters of adminia* 
tratipn ef the goods of tjie deceased were granted to her surviving 
spbitse. B^ore the adiiiinistratbys accounts are paissed, what is 
called an application is made to the court by th^ son-in-l^w of 
the administratbr' on behalf of His wife, the daught^ pf the 
administrator and deceased, setting forth that at t^e decease 
6t the intestate tl(e Wid administrator did not perform his duty 
a^ flwrvivnig spouse by making . division of the property, but 
kept possession of the whole for the space of sixteen years, and 
has now only rendered a statement of the intestate's property at 
the time of her death, and praying that the administrator may 



150 



be ordered to ^make^ two iuTentories, one of the property 
(meaning thereby the whole property at the time of the intes- 
tator's death) and another of the whole property as now held 
by the surviving spouse, "thereby to enable the intestate children 
to make their choice and to enable the court to decide the 
shares to which the said children are respectively entitled. 

To this application the administrator puts in an answer, 
and the plaintiff replies thereto, and the case having been set 
down for argument judgment is given by which the court louupl 
in substance that a surviving spouse is only bound to render an 
inventory of the estate as it exists at the time of the death of 
the predeceasing spouse. 

' The court is of opinion' that' in a testamentary suit, it /is 
not competent for a party having some interest therein to ^sten 
upon another party interested therein, or connected therewith, 
and by a proceeding analagous to a suit but not a suit, to call 
upon such party to perform an act with which the last^ men- 
tioned party has nothing to do. in the capacity in wluch he 
appears in the testamentary suit, and that consequently a 
judgment given in such irregular proceeding is also irregular, 
and as irregular must be set aside. Each party must pay 
bis own costs. 



<( 



SnpremeCeurt 
OoUectiTt 
Minute 9}'* 
1849, 



^*No 3 194 [ ^^^^ ^' Meera Cany. ' 

Per Cunam :-r-The plaintiff bought, as appears from the 
Btatemenls in this and the connected case No. 3,136, certain 
goods from the defendant^ imd being tumble \p. ]pskj for them 
deposited with the defendant certain jewels ai|d gold as a 
security for the due payment. The plaintiff paid for the goods, 
as- appears from. the, connected case, but the defendant failing tQ 
return the jewels and gold which nad been deposited with hioi, 
the plainU^ brought the present suit to recover then^. 

It appeared from the exaounation of the plaintiff that- the 
deposit was :not made in conformity, witji the Ordinance No. 17 
of lS44,«sectioQ 20; The con\missioner of court of r^9[uests ' 
non-suited the.plaintift and did not hear any evidence. 

* The point reserved for the collective division is whether 
the clause of the Ordinance in question ^plies to the present 
case, if jpw^ls. depj^ted as spcnrity for the du^ payn^ent oi 
goods piirc^ed; or yhetb'er fl^/tqrin '^ to |»wn!' is not to be 
coiuitrued' according to its conunon aoceptaition as a delivery. o{ 
goods or chattels to ano);her as^a security for. money borrowed. ; 



151 

^'Supreiiie Court The following authorities are referred to l 

CoUectiTe Sir Wm, Jones 117 and see p. 86. — '< A bailment of goods of 

Minates," |^ debtor to his creditor to be kept till the debt is discharged. 
1849. Pignora aecq>tum where a thing is bailed by a debtor to his 

'^ creditor in pledge, or as a security for the debt.'^ 

Lord Holt. — '' When goods or chattels are delirered to 
another as a pawn, to be security for money borrowed of him 
by the bailor, and thb is called in Latin Vixdium and in English 
a pawn or pledge. 

Po<Ai«r-— defines. a pawn or pledge to be "a contract by 
which a debtor gives to his creditor a thing to detain as a secu- 
rity for his debt, which the creditor is bound to return when 
the debt is paid.^ 

Domaf.— Pawn is *' an appropriation of the thbg given » 
for the security of an engagement.** 

A pledge or mortgage for payment of money lent. 

Storjf see p. 2i6.-— ''The foregoing definitions "says Story" 
are in terms limited to cases, where a thing is given as a mere 
security for a debt; but a pawn may well be given as a security 
for any other engagement. In the common law it may be 
defined to be a bailment of personal property as a security for 
some debt or engagement.^' 

Johnson's ^/ct.-^Pawn. Something given to pledge as a 
security for money borrowed, or promise made. 

To pawn. To pledge, to give in pledge. It is now seldom 
used but of pledges given for money. 

Hallifajn 80.— -Pignus is the delivery of a thing to a 
creditor as a security for money lent on condition of returning 
it to the owner after payment of the debt. 

In England a moveable chattel delivered as a security for 
money lent is called a pawn. 

Code Napoleon p. 560. — ^Pledging is a contract by which a 
debtor places a thing in the hands of the creditor as security 
for his debt. 

Pledging of a moveable b called pawning. Pledging of 
an immoveable is called hypothec. 

Beference was also made to 2 Raymond p. ^\%.*^Viner 
' vol. 16 p. ^^Z.-^Belfs Institute pi 57 and Storjf on Bailments 
section 286 and 800. The court is of opinion tnat the ordinary 
and familiar signification and import of the word *' pawn** at 
the present day is a deposit for money lent, and does not 
comprehend every deposit in security. *' Words of a statute'* 
says Dwarris p. 573 '' are to be talcen in their ordinfury and 
familiar signifii^ation'* and import, and regard is to be had to 
their general and popular use, for jus et norma io^uendi is 



152 



g^T^i^ned l^.uMgfy.iuld the meluung of words -spoken or itiAiten ^' l^ipre'me'Cotrt 
ought to be allowed as it has constantly been taken loqtiendum CollecUve 
egtutmlguay ... ■■ ^ ^i^^o*" 

The, judgment is therefore set aside, aB the evidence should l«>4:y. 

hare been- heard. *" 



*N *' rJ^'^*^ \ ^^^* ^» bioLB and' others. 



Per CwHami — On reading the endorsement of the regis- « Supreme Court 
trar i>u th^ . petition of appeal, we consider that the appeal Collective 
caniiot be' entertained^ the petition of appeal *not having been Minutes/' 
lodged in iSbe registry within twenty days after the date of the 1850. 

judjgntoUt exclusive of the day on which the judgment was -^ 

grreti, and of the day of filing the petition. The words of the Bee. 21. 
Ordinance seem of thettiflelvefl sufficiently clear to put it beyond 
a question that the judjgHient i^ould be dated as of the day on 
'^Mch it was given or pronounced^ and the time run from that 
day ; and on reference to the English practice, it iB found to be 
the same, and the conclusion is, thtft the Ordinance meant what 
it has expressed, and that it was intended to follow the English' 
construction. — 3 BrowrCM 0, (X, Smith v. C/ay. — Taylor on 
Evidence 1,09a. 

■ -I- n il iiBi , r 

N**' 13 252 * I ^"'^^^^ * another v. Casy Lehbe & amotter. Ceo. 24. - 

Per Curiamir-^ln thjs case tjhe plaintiff claims ^ planting 
share in a ^ardeU) against lier brothers the defendants; and 
stating Jihat in a prior. sjuit agwist them for it No. 12,983, the 
court had only adjudged one-seventh to her. 

l*he defendants by answer plead re$ judieata^ 

The district judge (Mr. Smedley) thinking, the decree 
No. 12,983 b&d been erroneous^ and that: platatiff from poverty • 
had not adduced evideiioe or -appeal^ 'Wrote ar l^ter to the 
judges for their advice aa to the conyseito^be pursued. The 
judges declinefd to give, any opinion, and aftei'wards the district 
judge on the c^use being heard, stated that the matter really - 
Wan ree judicaia^ but, considering the hardahip* he over-ruled 
the objection, and ordered the defendants to file an amended 
answer to the merits. 

On appeal this order was ajirmed by Mr. Justice Stark 
on circuit. - . > i. 

On the ease coming to hearing again on the amended 



*»'■> 
«>«> 



''Supreme Court pleadiugs oa the merits/ the then actbu; district jadge (Mr. 
ft^^?*^y* • (*»ke) 4ecidei ' il -» dleaarW m ju&ata, mA tm^s^^ 
f^^^^: plaifttiff^ ' ^- . ' . ' : 

This decision was appealed from, and the Supreme Court is 
of opinioii ihM* ii mual be 'set aside (and h is hereby set aside), 
and the case must be proceeded with. For although the dtstncfr 
court maj be quite correct m holdmg^ the case as res judicata, 
jet it was ultra vires of the district court to non-suit the plain- 
tiff, inasmuch as a decision of lha»t court^ affirmed on appeal, 
and not brought before the judges sitting botlecttvelj for error, 
had decided«~ whether right or wrcBig ,tlpj| court cannot now 
consider — that althotlgh the ease waa Pf$ judieata, yet there 
were circumstances which overcame: that obj^tioa and gave thi* 
plftintiff' .a right to peifer a. new claim en the sailie meritaw 
Each party to bear their own costs; 



Dec. 24, 



N ' 1*5*927 I ^^^^ Hamy v. Aberan and others. 

Per Curiam: — This case teas reserved on a point of prac- 
tice under, the rules as Stated belbwi 

On ihe ICfthJuue the pramtifts set down the cause for 
hearing on the 4th. September, 

On the 18th August the plaintiffs applied, by motion in 
writin^g filed, to tirithdraw the case from the tiial roll, whidi 
the court rejected als no cause "Was shewn. 

On the 4th September the cause was called on for hearing, 
the plaintiA reniowed or tnade a ffesh motion to draw the. <bise 
f rom^tlw trial roll/ which Witts also rejected, as no cause was 
shewn uftdfer the liile o^ 6t& Dedem/ber f 846, and the plaintiffs 
were thereon non-suited. (Ste rule 1 7th June 1944, Sec. 7.) 

On appeal it is iirged that tbe court could not nc^n-suit the 
plaintiffs, but only strike the caie off the trial roll, as the . 
plaia^ffs had not given filotice <A trial punmant to the 9th sec^ 
of tb&ruka 5th July 18^2, and they cite a judgment of the 
Chief Juilie» whiek kf in tlfer ooniiecti^ea0e.' 

On reference to that etttse^ it appears that the defendant 
waa absent, wlier«as in thiii case he was pfesent: Th6 objection 
that notice <of trial wiM not given could only be made by de-' . 
f endiuit for whose bsnefil it waa provideid; The {Plaintiffs ootdd 
not urge the want of it as a reason for withdrawing the case, 
and the district eonrt propef ly rejei^ted tire 'application. The 
decree of the district court is therefore affirmecL 



}k. 



15* 



WLere.tbo partj wlio.hae aot down the cause n^Iects- to " Sfrprerte Oourf 
give notice of trial to the other partj who u not ^ennt on tiM Coliective 
day of triftl, the caiuie will be struck off, and the party neglact- i^^,*" ' 

ing to give notice will pay the costs pf the day ; and it. will be 
the fault of the other fafrty jf further delay tak« place aa he 
.may Ect down the cause hiroself.' 



1850. 



'u' I'o uE } ^3««n>S(ii5o v.XiK^t'/ct.ofliciAlftdministrator. 
no. 18,529. I 

Ptr Ouriavi:-^'Ehe^Supnnei Ooart, foHowiug the decieiOB " Supreme Court 
io Aft-eoUeotire oue of .GiUe No. 8,862^ 24tfa July 1845, holds mi u^' »' 
that the.dabt is not .pceicrilxd ; and further that the ehjectkni 1851 ' 

token, by the appeUant's owinsd at the bearing before the _ ' 

.colleotira courts— ^at half the debt mity is racovenble fntdl the Jaay. 3. 
principal dobtor'a ^estate, insBmuchas the plaintiff waa only boand 
na. surety for half the debt,^ the iiMficiuia divwimUt not bein^ 
TenpoBoed — is ttntenable. ; 7be law appearing to be,' that wher« 
4 auffil^ Xhoagfa not bouAd to ^a^ the whole debt, ilaeB m^ he is 
entitled io-. recover the wbtieiroBi the principal debtor. Qrettu* 
/aid. by Heriert p. 297 and t£e authorities cited there. Domat, 
vol. I. p. 402. 



D. C.V Chilaw: & PutJam, ) 
No. 1S,$16. J 



tiL-eratne v. Don Battian. 



Per (7urtatn:-— The plaintiff claims ia this case on a morC- 
gi^ bond for £8 15»., and nnder it the m^rtg^tgee jstm to 
poaieas ifi &eu tH intereet the profits of the garden m^rtg^ed/. 

The defence lailc:l, mid ilie district ,a9urt baa adjudged the 
defendants to pay the £8 lie. together witk^ sum ctf;^24 
sterling for profits of the gai'iKa as cUnned .by.t^_plaLQti^. 
- , ^ The SuiJi-eme Court ia of opinion, that ptj.arFearp of iRter^sjt 
which exceed the principal can be recovered, wIrathet!,«uoh 
^ears arisO frQio prolitH of land not. enj()yed,,or frcon nmo^Ay 
stipulated to be pivid as ictci'est Atid,aUowcd to fall into . mroai^ 
In either case the fraud ia tLesante Upon the rule of. Jaw reli^i 
tiii^ting- the ^r^j||«,.of the f,rtQcii>nl. falling ijo ai-rear.ta the 
Mnoi^'^c^.^prin^Qlj^L and,..tlier0 i^ soothing in > the «utl)prU#- 
citea by, the coiitiigel for the respondent (3 Surge 197) to the 
contrary... ^ ..... 

"The deciwt>n bo far ss regards the sum of £25 storling, 



155 



*' Snpreme Gotitt awarded, to plaintiff as profits^ is tber^ore set aside, and t1i« 
OoUe^vs Bumol £8 Us. ed. beiiig equal to theamdimt 6f the principal 
~°'{*?*> is giron in lieu thereof. 



1851. 



Jan. 3. K * ll*148'i ^^^^^ y. JayeWardene. 



Ter Ctiriam: — ^Both by the Ronuin-Dutcb law and by thd 
English law, a proctor cannot abandon the conduct o£ a 
client's suit under the circumstances in which the respondent 
ihas abandoned them as disclosed by this case. The leipondent 
'gires no reason ito the client lor abandoottxg the cases, but 
oontente himself wi^ pleading >ihat he gsre a general notice 
that he ^wato about to leare the district, and calling on persons 
wholaad clums against him to prefier them for Bettlement. 

It is also the practice o^ the courts of law in England, that 
a party cannot change his attorney withotit leare of the court. ^ 
Twort y. Dayrell 18 Ves. 195. And the ease of Merikie^ ▼. 
Bodrigues, 1 Price 92, shows that an attorney haying Mit«rei 
appearance for a client^ mi»y not strike it out without leat^e of 
the court* Vosi^oL I, tab. $, Tit. S, a 22.—Oaa Lib. 1^ 
sec. 1 and 2, 'Obs. 45. And the cases cited m Hot. DiffeH tit. 
*' attorney"— ilrcA. Frac. p. 71. Hie late case of NithoU t, 
Wilson, Law- Journal Reports Ezch. 1843, Jan. 7. 2€. establishes 
'^he principle that had been already recognised in Harris r. 
Osborne, that an attorney retained to prosecute or defend a 
^cause enters into special contract to carry it on to its termination. 

Decree set aside and defendant a}^>eUant absolved irooi 
•the instance widi costs. 



^1^0 T 17^^^' } ^»^^*^'"«*«< ^- Tennekoon and otfcew^ 

Per Curiam : — ^The decree of the district cofflTis affirmed^ 
It was urged for the appellant, 

Firstly, — Thi^ the deed, the matter of dispute in this case^ 
is not Talid inasmuch 4is no acceptance by tbe donee has been 
proved. Vanderlinden 215. Orotius Int. 285. SandeB, K, 5, 
Tit. 1, Def. 1. VoetZ%. 5. 11; and that such acceptance being 
part of the gift must appear on ^he deed, 2 Burge p. 143^ and by. 
Ordinance of 1834 must be in writing. 

Secondly. -^\i the deed be good, yet that the donor had no 
power to make the same, being a married woman, inasmuch as 
cohabitation followed upon registration, and the registration 
being prioi* to the marriage in church (although cohabltatiou 



156 



might not have been proved until after tbe Churcb cei-iemony,) 
the registration followed by cohabitation, however remote 
afterwards is to be taken as the date of the marriage. 

As to the first point, the court is of opLuion that any proof 
-of the will to accept on the part of the donee, although no form 
he used, will be sufficient to sustain the grant. Here the donee 
has accepted the deed of gift— which was all he could accept — 
as proved by his producing, it. This the court considers suffi- 
<;ient proof of acceptance^ Were it not 8p to be considered, 
•nine-tenths of gifts made by .country notaries would be in- 
^operative. There is no necessity that the acceptance must 
4ippear on the face of the deed. Neither does the Ordinance of 
1834 in any way ap|ily to tbe Cfiae. 

As to the second point, the court agrees with the district 
court on the facts, being of opinion that no credible evidenc.<! 
mras adduced to prove tibat oohabitataon tool: place before the 
'ceriemony in Qrarch, whilst the same is strongly negatived by 
%he ante-nuptial contract to which the appellant is a party; and 
the ooi^rt is of opinion that I'egistration does not make a 
marriage between natives p€t SS' giving effect to it from the 
-date of the registry, and it may admit of doubt whether in any 
-case the marriage dates from the registration, by virtue of the 
Tegistration. Thus if a marriage ceremony be performed either 
in Ohurch Qr elsewhere, it should seem that the marriage dates 
from the day of the ceremony, and the registration is requisite 
•evidenoe to make it valid* 

Bat the court is clearly of .opinion that if between the 
Tegistration and a subsequent ceremony there be no cohabita^ 
tion, the ceremony is a marriage properly evidenced and not to 
he rendered ia^alid by subsequent cohaHtation to the marriage. 



'' Supreme (Joart 

Collective^' 

Minutes, 

185L 



Per Curiam:— ^The plaintiff is decreed to be entitled to 
Recover the whole of the land in dispute with co^. 

In this case the original prdprietor of the lands in dispute 
died intestate, leaving a window, and two daughters minors. 
Of whom the eldest married m beena, and was ti^i) mother of 
the plaintiff^ Ibut the youqgest was mairried put i^ 4e€M by her 
mother; and subsequently qold hs^t of the lands to the dgfcpdant 
liy a deed, under which he claiius such moiety* 



Jan. 4» 



^* StipMttoe Court 
1851. 



»> 



15^ 



The Supf^me Court is o£ opinipn t1iat*tlic taiot\i€a* Wiii 
enikled ta give her said datlghter 'Jiway* in deegii after t^ deatli 
of ber father, aqd that ttpon Vemg ^ married out in deega thu 
daughter was d«barr^d from fntiei^titng any portion df her 
fathei^s lands, the Whole of Which deVolved oft Her sister 
nmrried in beena.,»**.iirmowr p.p. 24, 114, 117, 118^ 



Hay 28. j^ Qft^en T. Ama LMe. 

Per {7«nafin:~-'|'he 'judge iili»> heard the t^a^ r^pdrt^d Id 
the judges that before the jti^'«kimiaed up, it was objected 
by the prisoner's oonfisel that the ertee could not attiotint to 
knurder, ixMunnucfa as (he pexlK>ti8 ondeaVoliriog to apprdiend 
the prisoner were not acting under legal authority ; that the 
7th clause of the Ordinance N^* Ih ot 1^48 gare no autfaoritj) 
AS it did not appear tlifit Mr. Morris who verbally appointed 
Coopej^ 1?amby as contftuble was fiseal, nor did it clearly ap])aar 
that there was any headQaan or other oflicer present authorized 
to act ; that neither did the 20th clause give anthority^ because 
by that cUuse private prisons are ixdy eippewered to apprehend 
^criminals where the orin^ has bedn vacently eottimitted which 
in this instance wai not t^ eaife. 

The judge chaxg«d the jtuy if they helieMi ^ avideuce 
lis given to find a verdict of guilty b£ alttlrder iaiid niat he- wouid 
reserve the point abevementioned. . 

!rlie Supreme Court sitting c(^lectiv4dyy haying read the 
evidence, heard counsd for the down and wei^bed the whole 
case, are of opinion that the ol>jectioiM taken by the <H>upisel 
for the prisoner are inapplicable to' the case and must be over- 
ruled, and that the verdict of the jury is correct, inasmuch as 
bythellth clause of the- said Oidi nance under the circum- 
tftances as detailed in evidence Coopey Tamby and hia coni* 
panions acting as private persona Imd authority to airf e^' the' 
prisoner. 



flie Qiieen v. tP^aitee and anotlier. 

P^r Cnrkifn z-^TUb qneHSioii reiferV^d' herS^ \4 ^tether 
tlie prop^^ in ti dwelling hou»B allfej^e^ tb tie' broken is 
mAd^Mf laid iti (ififrtaitr peMW nataied' respectively -Sbpoo- 
Miiwyi Bhigery Metftk^ aid itirl l*a'nika and the pfipeHy 



the othet^ b&YtDg ti ," ge^" uame. Appoohaiuj .gnje that he ia " iSupreine Ct^Brt 

alifraja spofetSt to Hb Amyoobamy an^ never by hiH_"gej!" nspjp,, Goliective 

it 18 the riaioe.by whicB his ,Deigh1>ours call Lim. Min«t«,**. 

T&ii ooDtt win nqt namW Ihe Bngltab practice on th« i^ij. 

point, wBlcb. ia to BUffiain an indictment laying prop^ty iu a , ' 
pei'son by the name by which be is gebeiully known. The;. 
(xwyictioD ther^fp^ $tandd good.. 



D, C, TaD-aMe, I SvmangelU fenman«e t, Solinotlu TVj'ii- Hag 2» 
No. 1,154. j" Baurn. ^ 

Rantimg Appu aocl others — Intervenient. 

Ptf C«ri<m '/-t'^^j.^^^1^ ot pht .^istrjut court of Tan^ 
gaile of the 3rd September 1849 ia a£rmed. with costs. The 
district coijft lu«^tw.iG^^TS4.jn4^IW)(Agwii*t :th«. plaintiff on 
the BvitJe^ce a(Ui^d.hy..tb»,.t:>anJ^ .aa^. tI)e.,eolIectiTB ooutC ' 
aces no su^jeuf cau^ to.4#^t'fi(Mn »i4cl>.dearai.'- 

Th« evidence 9ftb<^.5^ifitbi. awl. 7t])^witneBwt9.caU0dior: 
the plaiotifE on tba^^fv^^^ ,.b^a^^,ap(>flar&.b>.b« entUled to 
much weight; andaa,th9.7tVwi(n9iiitis;the Jbigh privtt of the . 
Amerajxiora Beet, and tbe iiait'ioiiibatilllf ireape^lTely.-tO AMkoti- 
gallc and Wihelle, which are butj) of t^.@tun«Mt,.biBfavidMiae : 
may be rcr£erred to as diBiutci:^^!^: ^ad ind«peudettt„in the 
matter of dilute, and he deposei i' I Itolt^ fo CaaAxatatpooA.. 
sect, and am chief priest. Ther$ ^iftSwo Aif^al teota in-th* 
district (Taogalle) viz; AmerHjtnijn. »Bd ^wt jK>cifitifl%..thtB.. 
latter is divided^into two sei^ts >i^j;Wi]wl)e :and. UolkviigsUc,. 
the priests of thew.Kcts have s^WlM teafl^- A |wieat..of . 
the Wihelle sect may by consent occult « temple bekuaging to . . 
the Mollierigalla Feet, but the former cannot be ousted, nuleio. , . 
tluit he imft been excommunicated for flome. crineL or other,, but 
he casDOt be oiuM^fot «]wrci«qg any rights in jt." IIsAdda ^ 
fuiiher "altboi^gji tbe tenaplenigbt .originaUy have belonged.' 
to the priest of oD(]Be«^ diS^fe^t/K^n tli«r sect of the cesidnit. 
priest, the latter cannot be gostjed, and the produce of the, . 
temple property cannot be withheld from him if the temple and 
property be Sangeeka,'' which the temple in question is proved'to 
be ; an^ the witoeaa on tfaate pcunti i> b^j cortohorated by tha 
5th and 6th witoesaes who are priests of the Siam sect. 

Admitting eves thei^pre. tha;t Godfla{»Jti&.Ten^i:ta^i^4 fnd 
his pupils (IJaaeroepo.kene.'aDd }iie ptaintlff had. a. right to tbs. ., 
temple'ntider the .dee^ !l,'80d .anct, 1,818, still, the. defeq4wit'., 
was clearly' with their ponsent inducted .to .th& templer<^<i^ ^l^ v/ 
for many' yea^ /^een the resident priest .thereof an^ officiate. . 



-^^m-rv-m-r- 



159 

^'•Supreme Court therein, and he is' moreover proved bj the plainttfifB 1st iritnessr 
Collective (dh i\^ gfg^ hearing) and others to have repaired the temple 

Tii^t*' and kept the temple property in order arid enjoyfed the produce. 

j-ool.- Whilst the proof of the plaintiff having during the same periodr 

exercised any act as owner of the temple property is not only 
very conflicting, -but as appears from the testimony of his 7th 
witness such acts on the plaintiffs part would be contrary to 
the buddhist tenets, as the witness says '* the produce of one 
temple which is Sangeeka cannot be removed from that tempfe 
and consumed by a priest of another temple, it must be lef4> 
%o the resident pnest for his support.'^ 

June 11. ^'^^' Sir^^^' } ^''^^ *"^ ^^^^ ^- ^**^^- 

Per Ouriam: — ^The decree of the district court is reversed^ 
with oosts, but with liberty to the defendant to file an answer 
within twenty days after tiiiB order baviiig been iiotiiBed to biiiiy 
upon hii paynMnt of the costi of the demurrer. 

The consideration or conditioh of the deed of gift is *' to* 
render ' alb and every necessary assistance till my death, and 
after my death, to cause my remlons to be butted according to 
the cnstom of the country/' Noir the custom on sttch gifts 
is for the donee to send one or moris servants to wait upon the 
donor^ and to supply provisions and inedicineSy and procure diiler ' 
burial according to nis ability, the eonditioh of th^ party an<!^ 
the value Of the land; (see Marih. DigtBt. p. 821 par. 46) and 
such serrioes not being required tp be rendered nersonally by. 
the donee himself; his heirSj althoifghf not namea in the deea, 
take by law on his death an interest in the condition and may 
perform it. 

Whether the servicer have been cc^ntinued to be duly 
rendered ' to and accepted by the donor during her life, or 
whether she ever ezpreiisly revoked* the deed of gift and re- 
sumed possesion, are queiAiotis for evidence upon such points 
being raised in defence by the answer. 

N ^5^636^ ' I Si3»M:UcB Nilleme v. Mudianse & another. 

Per Ouriam :^-The diecree of tlte district court i^ affirmed 
with tiostit ; but without prejtidic)9 to the plainti'ff^s right to 
institiite a fresh action against the defendants as mere tenants at 
will, if the plaiiitiff be advised that he can prove the' lands to 
be held by the defendant* under isuch inferior tenure. 



160 



No. 20,898. > ^*^*"** 



Tikiryi 



'Ber Ourianu-^The decree of the^ district court- should be- 
leversedy as we consider tihat the decision of the collective 
court in the Matelle case No. 8,574 ought tp be follow- 
ed, and that the point was fully considered and decided in it, 
and also in another case from the late district court of Kandy, 
^orth) No. 1,833 heard at the same general session. 

The Digest of Sir Charles Marshall, Tit. « Kandy" par. 
68, has been referred to, as favoring rather the rule of division 
per capita than p<r stirpes. The portion of the Digest was not 
published until after the above collective decision ; and the 
judges would certainl;^ incline to such a rule of division as being, 
most consonant to natural justice, if they could view it as an 
open question, and consider the result of the various conflicting 
decisions fully justified such opinion, which they cannot do. 

The rule that a deega daughter inherita. exclusively when 
she is the only issue, and a mpiety, if she is sole child of the 
first marriage, although there may be several children of a 
second marriage^, may be referred to as strongly in favour of 
the rule of division per. stirpes. 

There seems to have been a difference on the point between 
die Udderatte and Saffragam customs, and much difference iu. 
practice has occurred, which renders some legislative provision 
desirable. Under all the circumstances,, the parties will bear^ 
their own costs ia appe^. 

^No^SJe!} ^^^^^^''^^^^ 

Per Curiam: — The Roman law held a malicious intent essen- 
tial to constitute a verbal injury. Cod. lib. 9, tit. 35 de injuriis 
L. 5, and the Dutch law seem to have adopted this prqiciple 
generally, VceiMh, 47, tit. W), c. 20. 



Minutes," 
185L 



It does not appear on the plaintiff's pleading in this action ^* Supreme Court- 
that the defendants hold the lands as tenants at will, and not Collective 
as tenants in paraveni subject to the performance of the services; 
in which latter case the lands would be alienable by the tenants, 
although they would continue liable thereon to the same 
services. (See Marsh, Dig. 297,800; and Armour 266,) And 
tiie plaintiffs counsel admits, the claim to be general, and that 
he is not prepared to aver that the def endant0 are not tenants 
i|i paraveni* 



June 11. 



June 1§. 



in 



*' Supreme Court 

Collective 

Minutes/' 

1861. 



It does not appear to the court lookipg at the evidence in 
this case that the defendant was actuated by malice. By the 
English law the matter complained of would be regarded as a 
confidential communication and as such privileged. The law 
as laid down by Parke B. in Cockaigne v. Hodgkesson, 5 Car. 
and P. 548, seems also to be consistent with natural equity, 
<* That where a writer is acting on any duty, legal or moral, 
towards the person to whom he writes, or where he has by hia 
situation to protect the interest of that person : that which be 
writes under such circumstances iii a privileged communication, 
and no action will lie for what is thus written, unless the writer 
be actuated by malice." In such a case therefore as the pre* 
sent, malice in the defendant is essential to maintain the action, 
both by the Roman -Dutch law and the English, and the court 
is of opinion in ibatural Equity also. And it therefore becomes 
unnecessary to consider which of these laws is applicable to 
the Kandyan provinces, more especially as the judges have 
submitted for the consideration of the Government a proposition 
to declare what shall in future be the law in these provinces. 



June 18. 



D. e., ftalle, 
No. U.502 



2 J 



Don Corjielis v. Manuel Perera, 



Per Curiam :— The decree of the district court is reversed, 
and case remanded back to the court below to hear the evi- 
dence to prove the want of consideration alleged in the answer, 
and the plaintiff's evidence in reply, and to give judgment 
de novo. The costs are to abide the result. 

The bond in question cannot properly be viewed in the 
light of an English deed or specialty, because the seal of the 
grantor is not essential in this colony to the validity of such 
a bond, and if added, may be regarded as mere surplusage. 
The distinction between specialties and simple contract are 
unknown here, and the bond in question can have no greater 
force than the latter, in which by the English law* of evidence 
the want or failure of consideration may be proved *on the 
defence. The case of Hendrick v. Abbott^ 2 Scott N. R. 183-r- 
1 Man. and G. 791, Har. Dig. 7,061, may be specially referred 
to, where in an action on a promissory note in which the 
consideration was expressed to be for commission due to the 
plaintiff for business transacted for the defendant, it was pleaded 
that the real consideration for the note was services to be 
theieafter rendered by the plaintiff, and which had never been 



162 



performed ; and the court held that " evidence in support of 
this plea waa admissible, and ought to have been received by 
the judge at the trial." 

So moreover parol evidence is admissible in equity to shew 
under what circumstances a bond was executed : " the instru- 
ment is not to be contradicted, but parol evidence may be 
given why it was executed, and what was the intention of the 
parties in executing it" — 1 Ball and B. 14 ; and in Nichol v. 
Vaughan, 1 Clark and Fin. 49--Har. Dig. 1,890. Where a 
bond was on the face of it a simple money bond, l3Ut was given as 
^n indemnity, the court held that it must be taken to be a 
simple money bond, -unless impeached by evidence which showed 
that it was " partly for indemnity, and that the burden of 
proving it to be an indemnity bond lay tipon the party im- 
peaching the bond." 

By the Roman-Dutch law also, if the debtor admitted the 
bond and denied that the money had been counted .and paid, 
the creditor must prove such payment, if within two years, 
unless the debtor had released him from doing so, by having 
renounced in the bond the ' beneficium non numeratcB, pecunicB' 
which is inserted in this bond — but the debtor would be still 
entitled thereon to adduce proof, that the money was really not 
counted and paid to him — See Van L, 376 and Marsh. Dig. 45L 



" Supreme Court 

Collective 

Minutes." 

1851. 



D. C , Colombo, 
No; 4,821. 



} 



AmereseJcere v. Jayewardene, 



Per Ouriam : — This action is brought to compel the defeti- 
dant specifically . to perform an agreement entered into by him 
with the plaintiffs for the purchase of land. 

The libel states that the amount of purchase money was 
to be £450, and that the defendant executed before a notary 
and two witnesses a document binding in law as against him, 
the defendant. 

Defendant denies generally, and in particular, that no con- 
tract was made binding in law as against him. 

A treaty of letters respecting the purchase was carried on 
between the parties, but there is no letter from the defendant 
cloaing the plaintiffs' final offer. 

The district court found that the document signed before 
the notary and witnesses, is what is to be considered as an 
agreement between the parties, and bound the defendant. The 
document founded on purports to be a receipt and not an agree - 



Bee. 19; 



163 

'' Supreme Cotnt ment de preBenti, biit refers to au agreement on the following 
Collective terms :— 

^*8^^' ' " ^°° Cornalis Amereaekere (the plaintiff; having agreed 

lool, ^j^jj jj^^ ljy letters bearing date the 9th inst., inth respect to 

the garden Pahale AmbegahaWatte othertrise called Bandare- 
tfatte, I have received the slim herein mentioned (£450)/' 

It was contended for the plaintiffs that this receipt bein^ 
signed and witnessed as by law required to pass real property- 
did — taken in conjunction with the agre^incblt to which it referi 
—'bind the defendant. 

Without deciding the general qu^tion of the validity or 
invalidity of agreements not notarial referred to by a notarial 
deed but not annexed to it by tapie and seal or otherwise, the 
court is decidedly of opinion that in this case the referenoe ill 
much too vague, and that there is also no concluded agreemexft 
to which to refer; nor can it be any where found, but only 
inferred, what was the amount of purchase money which ^b^ 
defendant had to receive. 

The court is therefore of opinion that the decree of the 
district court of Colombo 'must be set aside, and it is ordered 
that the defendant be absolved from the instance, but under all 
the circumstances of the case, the parties «re decteed to bea^ 
their own costs. 



Dec. 19. ^'no! nfill'} '^'^^"^ ^"^'^y ^- ^*'^"'- 



Per Cttriam :— In this case the decree of the court below 
should be Was set aside and the ease remanded back to re-hear 
the case with Moorish assessors, and to give judgment de Imvo 
according to the laWs of inheritance and custotns prevailing 
amongst the Moors in the colony^ 

The Kandyan laws are silent on the point, and the caae^ 
cited since the accession are chiefly in favour of the Moors 
enjoying the privilege of being governed by their own laws 
and customs of inheritance and marriage, which are founded 
on their religion* The costs are to abide the result. 



^ o- D. C, Kandy, \ Qrey i Co. of Bombay v. Arahin of Nicd 
i^ec. 01. ^^^ 24,146. i in Piedmont. 

Per Curiam : — The first question presented in this case 
is,— was Locke a person " lawfully authorized*' by the defen- 
dant to sign the a^jreement for him. 



164 



The court is of opinion that he was so* The Ordinance " Supreme Coni^ 



No. 7 of 1840 does not require the agent to be authorized in 
Vriting, but uses the words " lawfully authorized" alone, leaving 
it for parties to discover, courts to decide, what shall be 
" lawful authorization." 

The notarial agreement in this case, as also the prior 
memorandum of iagreement therein referred to, Were both made 
at Colombo and must be governed by the law in force between 
the contracting parties there, and this law is the Roman-Dutch 
law, and which law, so far as We can discover, fio where requires 
such an authority as the one under consideration, to be in 
writing. It cannot with certainty be said that Mr. Loclce was 
the defendant's procurator cum libera administratione; neither is 
it material for the plaintilEs to have proved him so to have been. 
Mr. Thompson swears that he was defendant's procurator or 
agent for this particiilar business. He says " 1 know Mr; Locke 
to be the agent of Captain Arabin for this particular purpose," 
and it is satisfactorily proved that the defendant not only never 
disputed, but clearly ratified, the acts of his agent by paying 
part of the purchase money &c. If we regard the English law 
on tlfls point, we find the words " lawfully authorized" Used in 
the Statute of Frauds are not held to import an authorization 
in writing. The eourt therefore is clearly of opinion that Mr. 
Locke was an agent lal¥fully authorized to sign for the defen- 
dant the agreement in question^ 

We now come to the validity of the agreements. On the 
lasBumption that Mr. Locke was the lawful agent, no objection 
has been raised to the agreement of 1847 so far as regards the 
iBSi acres, the excess of the land agreed thereby to be sold for 
£4 10>. per acre; and the only questions which remain are, ^> 
Is the agreement of 1847 effectual to charge the ownership of 
the 583 acres therein mentioned, taken without reference to 
the memorandum of agreement of 1848? Or if not, is it lawful 
to refer to the mexaorandum of 1843 and thus raise up an 
agreement binding in law from the memorandum and the 
agreement taken conjointly? 

The court is very averse from making reference to any 
dbcument, we mean any not virtually incorporated with the 
notarial deed by seal and tape of the notary, for although the 
allowing of such reference by the English law in England may 
work equitably and beneficially in that country, we think it 
would work most prejudicially in this island and open a wide 
door to fraud and forgery. For it must be remembered that 
laws must be made and expounded here with reference to the 
mass of the people, and not to the handful of Europeans scatter^ 



Collective 
Minutes," 

1851. 



1(55 

** Suprtme Court ed thinly amongst them. It need not be pointed out to those 

Collective acquainted with the deceitful habits of the natives, the advan- 

Minutes, ^^gg "^iiich would be taken of changing the whole tenor of deeds 

•^v^l* to which reference might be made, and on which there woul4 

be no check by any copy to be found in the notary's protocol 

or the district court. 

But in this case the court thinks that there is no necessity 
to refer to the memorandum of agreement supposing that could 
be done. The court considers that in the notarial deed there 
is an acknowledgment made by both parties, duly signed and 
attested as by law required, that a purchase and sale of land 
had taken place between them and further that the terms of the 
contract sufficiently appear therein without further reference. 

The decree of the district court of Kandy is therefore re* 
versed with costs, and judgment must be entered for the 
plaintiffs for the amoUht of their claim. 



bee. 31. 'U*' 194.00 \ IBatchy tiamy \, Casy Lebbe. 

% Per Cunam :— The charge in this case was for unlaw- 

fully detaining the prosecutrix's son, and the point reserved 
is, — whether the complaint is within the jurisiiiction of the 
police court? This is of opinion that it is so, an unlawful 
detaining of the person being in the nature and within the 
legal signification of a false imprisonment, to which police 
courts are clearly competent. 

The order of the Supreme Court reserving the point is 
in the usual form, affirming the judgment subject to the re- 
servation mentioned. There has been no judgment however 
in the case, nor indeed any evidence whatever of the charge, 
or of any lawful detaining of the prosecutrix's son. The 
sentence or order of the police court for the delivery of the 
child to the prosecutrix was therefore irregular, and must be 
set aside, not only because of the want of evidence, but also 
for this reason that police courts are courts of criminal 
jurisdiction, instituted for the hearing, determining and dis- 
posing of crimes and offences punishable by law and have no 
power to make such an order as has been passed in this case. 

The order of the 25th June 1851 is therefore set aside 
for irregularity and of jurisdiction. 



lt)0 



p. C, Trincomalie, ) la re Teywane, widow of Super deceased, " Supreme Court 
No. 17,542. J Coneper, administrator. -. " . 



Per Curiam : — In this case the point reserved was whether 
the district court had power to make an order *'that an adminis- 
trator was to be im prison ied, if he did not file a satisfactory 
account within a given time, in default to be committed to 
gaol." The administrator had filed his account but there 
were objections to it. 

This court — although, of opinion that the district court had 
XJ9 power to make such order — finds no assessors were present 
and therefore the order of the district court is set aside entirely 
p,& being irregularly made. 



Collective 

Minutes," 

1851. 



N *' 2 ''99 1 T<yu88aint v. Veerapatran, 

Carr and Stark, J. J. (dissentiente Oliphant, C. J.) :— hi 
this case the fiscal returned a writ of execution issued by the 
plaintiffs against the defendant's property unexecuted, on 
the ground that the plaintiff had failed to bring a schedule 
from the Udear. 

The plaintiffs thereon made a motion to compel the fiscal 
to execute the writ, no such schedule being required by the 
general rules respecting the duties of fiscals, but the district 
court refused the motion as the court did not see any reason 
for interfering with the practice adopted by the fiscal; and from 
this order the plaintiffs have appealed. 

The collective court has called for information from the 
fiscal as to the existence of the custom of requiring schedules, 
and the continuance of the practice in the fiscal's office respect- 
ing it. And from the report of the fiscal, with the statements 
annexed thereto, it appears that schedules have been granted 
since 1806, and that from 1820 to the present time lands have 
neither been seized nor sold in execution without a schedule; 
and any definitive information respecting the practice in the 
fiscal's department prior to 1820 would, he adds, be difficult to 
obtain. The practice in the fiscal's office of requiring schedules 
therefore has existed for thirty years, and no origin being 
assigned thereto, it may be inferred to have been in existence 
at the earliest period of the custom: a duration or period very 
different from " the two or three years" only which the appel- 



it 



" Supreme Court 

Collective 

Minutes,' 

1852. 

Jany. 3. 



'^Supreme Court lants, iti their first opposition to tbe demand ^ for a scheduk^ 
Collective appear to have supposed it to exist. 

?ftR9^' Admitting that the schedule is required, the next question 

^ is. as to the mode and time of obtaining it. The fiscal, in his. 

"^ first report of the 5th January 1849, has stated an alteration in 

the practice of his office in this respect since the Ordinance 
No. i of 1842, in order to make it accord with the provisions of 
that Ordinance; and he has urged strong reasons in support of 
such alteration, and that the party himself should procure the 
schedule, as he, and not the fiscal, should proceed against the^ 
Udear for refusal or neglect according to the provisions of the 
Ordinance. 

The General Rules, not having expressly required the 
party to procure the schedule, have been relied upon in favour 
of the appellants;, but their total silence on the subject does, 
not exempt the party from acting in compliance with any 
. existing custom, and it is not contended that a schedule and 
publication are not required on a sale or deed of transfer of the. 
land, although the general rules are equally silent thereon. 
The party, moreover, is bound to point out the land to the- 
fiscal, and a necessity of a schedule in so doing is party ad-. 
mitted by the plaintiffs having voluntarily produced the schedule,, 
which they got in their mortgage for the fiscals use. 

Under these circumstances, as the practice and usage m. 
the fiscal's ofiice appear to be in conformity with the custom as. 
far as it can be ascertained, and also of the Ordinance No. 1 of, 
1842, this court will not interfere therewith. 

Oliphant, C. J. — I am sorry that I cannot concur in the- 
judgment in this case. I am strongly inclined to think that 
the second witness S. V. S. Ayer is correct| when he states, 
that the practice of granting schedules commenced at the time- 
that stamps for deeds were first introduced in 1806. 

1 can find no trace of schedules being granted by the 
Udear in the Thesavalamai, nor in the Regulation No. 18 of 
1806. I find in that regulation that the Thombo Registers were* 
to be given back to the School-masters — (who had them in the 
meantime I know not.) 

In the Thesavalamai sect. 7, we read that since Blom'H- 
time, no sale of land whatever has taken place, until the in- 
tention of such as wish to sell the. same has been published on. 
three successive Sundays at thjB Church to which they belong, 
that all interested might have notice. 

But there is no mention made either in the Thesavalamai 
or in the regulation, of any schedule to be granted by any person^ 



168^ 



One Bhoald suppose that if a schedule ^ere to be granted 
ri^;ardiiig the ownership of the land, that such would be done 
hj the Schoolmaster as holder of the Thombo. But he is not 
required to do so. 

It is observable the Thesavalamai evidently does not 
contemplate sales bj process of law but such as were merely 
voluntary. 

I know not whether the publication in practice at Jaffna 
ii% according to the orders of Blom, by publication on three 
successive Sundays at Church, or according to the rules- of- 
oourt for the fiscal, or whether both modes are in use. 

If the former mode be only used, I know not whether the 
XJdear or any other person certifies that publication has been 
only made. 

Why should the Udear have anything to do with the 
matter,- if he be not the Thombo-holder, and even if he be, of 
what use is his schednle?-even in the case of voluntary sale it 
is surely not to be supposed that his dictum, as to who was 
proprietor of the land can confer the slightest title upon any one. 
la the schedule of any use to any human being except the 
XJdear? But supposing that some good reason should exist 
why land should not be transferred in any case, whether by the 
notary or by the fiscal without a schedule, what reason exists 
why the schedule should be produced to the fiscal at the time 
o£ the seizure? 

The fiscal can get into no trouble by seizing land without 
schedule, the parties can- make their opposition equally well, 
whether there be schedule or not; and one cannot see, until 
better informed, why a schedule, if really necessary for the safe 
trapsfer of property, shoufd not be produced to the fiscal before 
he gives conveyance or at the earliest «n the day of sale. 

I am strongly of opinion that, unless some new light can 
be thrown on the subject^ there is no ancient custom of the 
people of the country other than that mentioned in the Thesa- 
valamai before Blom-s order, and that the obtaining of schedules 
from Udears^ if it did not arise in 1806 as before mentioned, 
comes in place most likely of a Dutch regulation, requiring the 
Schoolmaster to give schedule and was substituted by the English, 
and that the observation of it in the fiscal's ofiice is simply a 
practice arising in that office perhaps about the year 1820, and 
cannot be called a custom. 

The Ordinance No 1 of 1842 affects the question in no 
way, as it only regulates what is to be done when parties 
apply for a schedule. 

Is it the custom when a European sells his cocoanut 



ti 



Supreme Court- 
Collective'*' 
Minutes, 
1852. 



169 

<^ Supreme Court estate, which he has by grant from Goyemment, that, if tfad 

CoUectiye purohamr insist upon it, the Udear must get * his £5 for the 

'i^ A*^^'** schedule^ oy does the custom in farour of the UdeMr run onlj 

*^«2* against thcf Tamils^ or how otherwise? 

"^ In my opinion no custom is sufficiently proredy and if it 

were, there is no evideinoe to shew the use of such custom, and 

it appefuiB to ine to be l)ad. I think therefore that lihe jadg-* 

ment oi the district court should be reversed. 



•Mki 



Jtny. 3. -^jj;; ?p*S''''' } ^^"^ ^^^ ""' ^^^^^* 



Per Curiam .'-—This was an aotiom brought to bavd 
certain land released from sequestration. It appears that the 
liind in questicm was on Ist July 1844 sequestered under 
a writ at the instance of the defendant in the case No. 9,803^ 
and chat the saine land was subsequently in December 1844 
sequesterc'd under a writ at the instance oft he plaintiff. 

Jn 1845 the fiscal put up the property for sale under tfad 
plaintiff's writ, wl^en three persoiis alleging themselves to be 
creditors of the owner o{ the land came forward and opposed 
the saley which was in oonneqttence stajred. 

Directly a&er this ip April 1845, a private transfer (D) 
was inade of the land by t^e owner to the plaintiff, he paying 
£7b which was to be received in full satisfaction o£ his debt, 
which, esclusive of cost^, f^mounted to 46? 10<; and he further 
iindertoqic to pay, in consideration of the tranter to himself, 
the sum of £45 lbs, to the three persons who had opposed the 
saile: such being the amoimt of their claim, over and above the 
amount of his own claim. 

In 184$ defendant ignorant of this private arrangement 
applied to the fiscal to have the land told in satisfaction of his 
writ, when plaintiff opposed and set up his title, and the sale 
stayed. Hence the present action. 

The land was specially mortgaged to the plaintiff> the . 
defendant having only a - simple del^bond from the original 
o^ner, which was o| prior d^te. 

The defendant contends lit that the land, while under 
sequestration under his writ could not be privately sold to the 
plaintiff, and that therefore the transfer to the plaintiff i^ould 
be set aside; and 2ndly that admitting that plaintiff had a 
preferent claim, iptill the other three' creditors have no preference 
even though t^y bad ja^ <^i|xui bi^ 9i which theve as ^ 
Evidence. 



170 

The plaintiff contend* Ist that the defendant; had lost his " Supreme Court 
Tightaby delay; 2ndly that the plaintiff had no notice of t)je ^,^^®^^^ 
land being sequestered by the defendant; and 3rdly that no ix>fi9^* 

fraud is alleged or proyed against him. ' 

The assessors thought there was collusion between /the 
plaintiff atid the WanniaH. The district judge, on the other 
hand, thought there was no proof of fraud on the part of the 
plaintiff, and that the defendant had lost his right to annul the 
. sale, by his own negligence, he having, it is said, taken no 
steps for the execution of his writ from July 1844 till Augtt^t 
.1848, when, on going to have the land advertised for sale, the 
plaintiff opposed and brought the presetit action. 

Judgment therefore went for the plaiptiff, releasing the 
land from sequestration, parties paying their own costs. 

Both parties here appealed against this judgment^ the ^ 

plaintiff for his costs, and the defendant on the merits. 

. The above is the abridgment of the case by the judge who 
beard it' in appeal, and is cotisistent apparently with the 
facts. 

The maia c[uei^ion is whether there has been such laches 
on the part of the defendant in prosecuting his writ of execu- 
tion as shall have the effect of destroying his right under it. 

The Ordinances and the rules of court regulating proceed- 
ings in execution evidently follow the Dutch law, so far as . 
practicable in this Island. Cens. For, pt 2, 4, 1. 83. 19V and 
when these are silent oz^ any matter having reference thereto, it 
^is to that law that courts must resort. 

The 35th clause sect. 1 of the rules for the district courts 

• in ordinary civil jurisdiction provides that if no execution shall 

'be taken out within 12 monthsr after judgment, a rule ou the 

adverse party to shew cause against it must be obtained before 

-it shall issue. But nothing is provided regarding delay in 

executing writs, either by ordinance or rule. We must there* 

^f ore have recourse to the Dutch law, and that law provides that 

•if the Letters of Bs^ecution be not executed within one year, 

tbefy prescribe, and new letters must be taken out. VanLeeuwen 

Oomm. 5. 2^. 8. Cens. For, pt 2. L. 1; 38. 7. 

It does not appear, however, that these authorities can 
apply to the present case, because though the writ was not 
actually executed within one year from its date, yet it has been 
in operation in the fiscal's hands, and on the 4th October 1845 
the fiscal reports to the court that, by virtue of the writ, he 
"had levied without sale of the property surplus of the writ 
No. 10,011, the sum of £20 4«. Sd; and he requested that the 
writ may be returned for the recovery of the balance. The 



171 



a fi 



Supreme Court writ was extended accordingly, and on the 24th March 184£, 
.^ll®ctive the fiscal reported opposition to a sale then about being made 
ift^*9** by him under the writ. 

"^ The opposition here referred to was afterwards adjusted, 

~~" and on the 21st November 1846 the fiscal reported a further 

levy by sale. 

On the 26th November 1846 the writ was re-issued ** for 
service/' and again re-issued for the same purpose on the 4th 
February 1847. 

At length on the 28th October 1848, the fiscal reports the 
present opposition. 

It thus appears that the writ was in active operation froxa 
time to time from its date ; and that no such laches as supposed 
by the district judge can be imputed to the defendant. This 
court is therefore of opinion that the defendant is entitled to 
have his sequestration proceeded -with upon such lands as were 
seized in 1844, subject of course to all preferent claims when 
duly established, as the plaintiffs mortgage and the otty holder's 
claim &c. 

The judgment of district court is set aside, and case 
remanded to the district court to ascertain whiit lands were 
• seized under the defendants writ in 1844. 



<Jun. 30. !*• C^ Colom bo, \ q„^.^. p„-^. 



Per Curiam : — The majority of the court having ex- 
dressed its opinion that it has jurisdiotion to entertain this case 
in review, tlie court proceeds now to consider the validity of the 
objections made by the counsel for the sureties to the order 
of the police court. 

1st. — As to the objection that the bond is void being tak^ 
at a time when the justice had no power to take it. 

The circumstances are that on the 8th March 1851 Price 
was brought before the justice charged on oath with theft ^c. 
No depositions were then taken nor was anything done save 
that the recognizance B. was taken '^ to appear and answer to 
'^ any information, indictment or sufficient complaint- which 
^' shall be presented against him in any competent court for 
" Midland Circuit upon receiving notice of the time and place 
" of holding such court at Colombo," and he was told to appear 
on the 15th of the same month and he appeared on divers days 
afterwards and the examination was closed on the 10th of May 
and it is argued that the justice had no power of taking the 



172 

Recognizance inasmuch as when taken the accused was only " Sapreme Court 
* charged on oath and no depositions of witnesses nor the exami- Collective 
nation of the accused taken. i^^^i*' 

The court is unanimously of opinion that on that account looz, 

the recognizdnce was void, that the justice had no power to 
take it — that he could not at that time take bail to appear at 
trial or bail for any other appearance. 

The court is of opinion that the Ordinance No. 15 of 1843 
points out how and when persons shall be bailed and in doing 
•BO intends to follow the English law then existing and for that 
purpose repealed the regulation No. 5 of 1827 by which persons 
'were permitted to be bailed in certain cases to appear before 
the justice for further examination, which the English law 
did not but which has now been altered by the Metropolitan Act 
and the Act II and 12 Victoria, and in repealing that regulation 
and providing a form of proceeding in which remanding for * 

\further examination and l^ail are provided for, no mention is 
made for taking bail for appearance on further examination. 
We conclude that no such indulgence was extended and that, 
'whatever the law w^s prior to this time, henceforth it was to 
be found in this Ordinance and therefore that no bail could be 
taken for appearance before the justice for any purpose, and 
that bail could not be taken to appear at the trial upon a 
charge up6n oath before examination were taken, nor in any 
ivay except as specified in that Ordinance, and we construe the 
provisions of that Ordinance to enact that depositions must be 
taken and the examination of the party accused taken before 
these preliminaries were gone through, and therefore we hold 
the bail bond void. But it has been urged on behalf of the 
Crown that if this be so the court is precluded from looking 
into the proceedings of the justice inasmuch as it was no part 
of the duty of the police court to look into such proceedings, 
but to receive proof of the forfeiture of the recognizance which 
might have been taken irregularly, and the court sustains this 
view of the case (dtssentiente the senior puisne justice) — for 
although it has been very liberal in construing irregularities in 
favor of the reviewant, yet it has never gone so far as it is 
asked to go in this case. Whatever irregularity the justice 
might have committed in taking the recognizance or in taking 
it at all was not for the police court to enter into, its duty 
being to take proof of the forfeiture of the recognizance and 
proceed thereon. The court is therefore of opinion that in 
this respect there is no irregularity of proceeding. 

2nd. — As to the alleged irregularity that the examination 
was unduly delayed, we think the same argument holds good 



178 

''SnpreraeOonrt and that it was not tlie duty of the police court to consider tkia 
Collective matter in tiiking proof of the ferfcitnre. 

Minutes,** gr(j^ — It is objected that no notice of trial or to surrender 

1852. their priacipal or no due notice was giveu to the sureties. We 

do not find that by the conditions of the recognizance any such 

notice was stipulated for and that no such notice could be 

required. 

4th. — It is objected that the notice of trial as stipulated 
for in the recognizance was not given. The condition of thQ 
recognizance that ** Price shall appear and answer to any infor- 
'^ mation, indictment, or sufficient complaint which shall be 
'* presented against him in any competent court for Midland 
" Circuit upon receiving notice of the time and place of hold- 
** ing of such court at Colombo (which place is hereby elected 
" by him for that purpose.)'' 

To save trouble in searching for the party on bail to g^Te 

him notice of the time and place of his trial he is to name a 

certain place where service is to be made and which need not 

be personal but may be left at the place named. The justice Was 

content with a very indefinite place and it may be very difficult 

to say what constituted good service. We think leaving A« 

notice at the party's last place of abode would be good service^ 

and of course personal service would be good. Now a notice 

was left for him at his last place of abode and the question is 

did such notice comply with the condition of the recognizance? 

We think not. It must be admitted that it was not requisite 

to serve him with any indictment &c., but it was requisite that 

he should receive notice of the time and place of holding a 

court where he was to appear and answer and &c. Has be 

received such notice, that is, was such notice served? Tho 

notice is headed. The Queen v. William Nicholas Price for 

fraud and theft; is addressed to Price and proceeds thusi 

" You are hereby directed to appear before the Supreme Court 

" at Colombo forthwith on pain of forfeiting your recognizance 

" in the above case." It is dated the 7th August and served 

on the 12th on the same month. Before this time officers ha<} 

been looking for Price whom they could not find but this is 

the only legal service. It was said that he had left the Island| 

but of this there is no conclusive legal proof if it were of any 

consequence. This notice was served by functionaries who 

believed that Price had left the Island sometime before service 

for the purpose of fulfilling the condition of the recognizance) 

and the court considers with these functionaries that notice 

must be served in order to forfeit the recognizance, but suck 

notice did not give Price notice of the time of holding the 



17i 

court tbe usual words indieating the timo to wit— ^'^ ttie '^.Supreme Court 

day of next at 9 o'clock in the morning" where Collective 

Bdracbed out of the printed form and the word " forthwith" Minutes," 

iuaerted instead thereof. The party for whose use the notice loOJ, 

is given is left in unpertainty as to what is the time specified "^ 

for his appearance. He finds his appearance to be forthwith 

but when it is served it is already the 12th August, ^ve days 

after its date which is the 7th August, he might suppose the 

unspecified time when he ought to appear is long since passed. 

Can it be said that parties are to be condemned to pay J&2,000 

or any other sum because one of them could not ascertain when 

the word " forthwith" taken in connection with the date of 

the notice and the time of the service thereof required him to 

ftppearT The parties were entitled to a clear, unambiguous 

notice of the time of appearance before their recognizance can 

be forfeited. We cannot look at this case (assuming that 

Price left the Island before the sei'vice) otherwise than if he 

were still here. He and his sureties are entitled to say, " we 

abide by our bond." The court is of opinion that the cog- 

jxitot and his sureties have been ordered to pay into the police 

court the amount of the recognizance without proof of the 

forfeiture. The court holds there is no evidence whatever of " 

the forfeiture, and following former decisions as to what is 

irregularity in proceedings in the inferior courts where there is 

no cause of action, holds that the proceedings are irregular 

and should be set 'aside and the same are hereby set aside 

accordingly. 

There was another point taken by the, counsel for the 
appellant, namely that the police court exceeded its jurisdic-' 
tion in entertaining this case, and the second puisne justice is 
disposed to concur in the same view, considering that the police 
court in dealing with forfeited recognizances taken by justices 
as in this case must be limited by the analogy of its ordinary 
juirisdiction and could not therefore deal with a recognizance 
to'so great an amount as the present. But the point not having 
been pressed by counsel at the hearing, the court givea> no 
opinion thereon. 

^m!4^5^T' } ^<>«w«*'w* V- JSaitoPoketsinga* Jtine 30. 

The defendant was the owner of certain p-emises in Jafifna 
which he agreed to sell to defendant, who thereupon got into 

^ The facts of the case are taken over fron» the Legal 
MisceUar^^ 1862.— En. 



r75 

"Siipreme Court possession. No transfer was made conveying property to de- 
Collective fendant. On the 29th October 1849 defendant gave notice to 
T^b^' plaintiff to quit the premises and to have his things removed, 

100^. adding that if he did not do so within a stated time, he the 

"^ plaintiff would remove the things to some other place until the 

defendant should require the same. On the 1st November the 
defendant entered the house by force and removed the things- 
for which plaintiff brought trespass. Defendant justified, 
pleading property and notice to quit. The district court of 
Jaffna held that the trespass was proved— that plaintiff was in 
possession of the house at that time of the trespass, on the 
understanding that the house was to be transferred to him^ 
atld that being in such possession the defendant was not justified 
in the steps taken to dispossess the plaintiff. Judgment for 
r plaintiff, damages £9 9^. Against this judgment the defendant 

appealed and the case came on before the senior puisne justice 
(Carr) who reserved the same for collective hearing, under the 
following order: — 

" That the decree of the district court of Jaffna of the- 
llth day of June 1851 be reserved and the plaintiff's claim be 
dismissed with costs ; subject to the opinion of the judges 
collectively, whether the defendant was entitled to resume 
possession of the premises, and to remove the furniture of the 
plaintiff therefrom after the notice or letter requesting him to 
quit the house and premises marked C. 

" The English law is clearly in favor of defendant's right 
to act, as he has done; and the only question is whether tmder 
the Roman Dutch law the -defendant was still, bound to have 
resorted to an action to recover possession of the premises, of 
which he was the lawful proprietor. In the event of the 
judges being of the latter opinion, the consideration of the cost* 
to be paid in this suit is also reserved for their opinion," 

At the hearing before the judges collectively the Deputy 
Queen's advocate appeared for the appellant and B. Morgan 
for respondent. 

Per Curiam: — The collective court is of opinion that both 
tinder the English and Dutch law the defendant was entitled 
to resume possession of the premises in question and to re- 
move the furniture of the plaintiff therefrom after the notice 
demanding possession given by him, and the decree of the 
district court of 11th June 1851 is therefore reversed and the 
plaintiff's claim is dismissed with costs. 



Eipremd Cdnri 



IT'C 

Plaintiff brought ejectment against defendants to oust tbem 1852. 

from a land called Belingabawatte situate at Cotancliina in j ^ 
Ck>lombo. The 1, S, 5 and 6 defendants were in default and ^^'^ ^* 
interlocutory ju<^;ments were granted against them without 
any order calling for evidence. No rule was served on the 4th. 
The 2nd and 7th defendants pleaded to the libel, and the case . 
came on for trial on their plea. When the trial came on, the 
plaintiff moved to waive the 2nd, 4th, and 7th, defendants and 
that the judgment be made final against the 1st, drd, 5th, 
and 6th. T^ court at once absolved the 2nd and 7th, but 
took time to consider the motioa as respects llie 1st, Srd, 5th,. 
and 6th defendants^ The next day, the court made order 
calling for evidence against these d^endants. This order was 
i^^>ealed from on the grounds that the court having already 
granted interlocutory judgment against them^ could not call 
for evidence, and that the court should not have reversed 
the motion, but either have granted or rejected it altogether. 
The appeal came on before Stark, J, who reserved the same 
for collective hearing, making the following order :-— 

^' It is considered and adjudged that the orders of the 
district court of Colookbo of the 81st day of July and the first 
day of August 1851 respectively be affirmed, subject to the 
opinion of the judges collectively on the following points, 
whether the district court did right in over-ruling the plaintiff's ^ 
motion for final judgment and ordering him to adduce further 
proof in support of his daun, and if flo whether any or what 
direction should be given in regard to ihe final, judgment in . 
the.case, and also whether die district court did right in sever- 
ing the proceedings on the part of the plaintiff on Slst July 
and giving judgment of ab<K>lvitnr against the defendant* 
waived, while it also (Mrdeied further evidence in support of 
the claim. 

^' This is an action to recover possession of a gavden. There 
were several defendants, some of whom entered appearance and 
pleaded, and against others in default interlocutory judgment 
was entered. The case was fiaced for trial, and on the <&y of 
trial, Slst July 1851, tiie plaintiff and 2ud defendant were ex- 
amined and the 2nd defendant was in course of examination 



* The facts are taken over from the ImmI MiefMamf, 1852, 



177 

m 

"Supreme Court when the plaintiff waived those defendants who had pleaded and 

Collective mored for filial judgment against the others. " The defendant 

tftjwf* ' ^^^ ^^ he«ix waived were absolved from the instance with 

I5a^. costs, but the phuntifiPs motion for final .judgment was. (after 

tiihe taken for consideration) over ruled and further proof in. 

support of his claim ordered — the district court relying oil' 

the rules of practice 17th June 1844 clause 4, which indeed 

provide for a case where among several defendants, aa here, 

some are in default and some pleaded, but there is no power 

ezpresFhr ghren to call for further evidence, a /' trial of the 

cause" being there only as it would appear in contemplation. 

The plaintiff alff> complains of his proceeding on Slst July 

being severed and its parts separately considered by the district' 

court " • 

' Per Ouriam: — In this case the collective court considers 
that the plaintiff was not entitled under the rules of practice 
of the 17th June 1844 sec. 4 to move at the trial to withdraw 
his case against or waive three of the defendants who were not 
in default in order to obtain a final judgment thereon against 
the remaining five defendants, against whom interlocutory 
judgment had b^en entered, as this court considers that such 
motion was evasive of the rule, and that the district court ought 
not also to have severed such motion and assented to a part 
thereof when it was virtually to preclude the court from doing 
justice to the remaining defendants who would thereby lose the 
benefit which they were entitled to tmder the said rule of court 
of final judgment being given upon the merits for or against 
the defendants as justice should require and without reference 
to the defaults of some of them which had been committed. 

Considering that all parties and the district judge appear 
to have been clearly acting under what the Supreme Court 
considers a misapprehension of the above rule, the Supreme 
Court is of (pinion that the best course is to place the parties 
in statu quo — and to reverse the orders, upon the plaintiff 
paying the .costs thereof and of this appeal. 



Junt 30. ^-jjj^-' 1^7?*' } ^«^« ^^^0 ▼• Falconer, 



This was an action upon a promissory note, given to 
plaintiff by one Shand. Shand being about to leave the jurisdic- 
tion, plaintiff contemplated taking steps to arrest hini, when the 
defendant interfered, and upon his undertaking plaintiff drop- 
ped proceedings against Shaud« Plaintiff then demanded pay- 



178 

ment of the promiisoxj note from the defendant, and the latter ^'SapremeOoart 
. wrote to plaintiff the following lettera « Hr. Sbuid having left ^^^^^t*^ 
the district I have to report what 1 told you Terbally last .week ?^' 

that I shall be prepared toitdjnst your claims against him"--- loO^. 

'' I am this day in receipt of yonr's of 2l8t— all that I can do "^ 

, for you is to settle the promiciaory note*-^as to costs of suit or 
«aiy thing else I can do nothing'' '^ I have seen your men with 
the receipt which I don't want.— -If jroii will send me the 
promissory note t shall give you an order for the amount on 
Colombo." When these letters were tendered in evidence in 
the court below, it was objected for the defendant^ that they 
were inadmissible for want of stamps. The district judge over- 
ruled the objection and gave judgment for the plaintiJSE. From 
this defendant appealed, and the judse on circiiit nmde the 
following order, reserving the case for the opinion of the col- I 

lective court :— 

'^ Affirmed subject to the opinion of the collective court 
Whether the letters tendered in evidence require a stamp. If 
the collective court are of opinion that a stamp is requisite, then 
the judgment is to be set aside and the case remanded to the 
district court for the purpose of admitting them to be stamped 
and to proceed to judgment de novo. Should the opinion of 
the collective court not disturb the affirmation of the judge, 
the plaintiff is to be entitled to his costs, otherwise the cost% 
to stand over.'^ 

Per Curiam: — In this case the question reserved for the 
consideration of the collective court viz., whether the letters 
tendered in evidence require a stamp, disposes of the rest of^tha 
case, the court being of opinion that no stamp is requisite^^upon 
such letters, because by the Ordinance No. 9 of 1840, clause 21, 
no promise contract bargain or agreement, unless it be in 
\yriting and signed by the party making the same, shall be of 
force or aVail in law to charge any person with the debt, 
de&ult or miscarriage of another, and as the consideration does 
hot sufficiently appear on the face of> nor can be necessarily 
collected from, the letters themselves, they are not in law bind- 
ing upon the defendant as any guarantee or promise in writing 
to answer for the payment of the debt, default or miscarriage 
of Mr. Shahd — See Smith's Mere. Law p. 412, 417, nor if ten- 
dered only as an admission or acknoveledgement of any antece- 
dent parol contract or agreement between the [parties to the 
same effect (which was not binding in itself) could they bo 
held sufficient evidence in law to establish the same or require 
a stamp. See TiUe^ on Siampe p. 24, 25. HeechivQ v. WeU- 
iro(?^• 8 M. and W. 411. 



^.: 



179 



"Supreme Court 

Collective 

Minutes," 

1852. 

^Dec. 16. 



r 



The (tueen r. Kappa Kando^ et. et. 

The i^>e6iBl Terdict returned by the jtur in this case 
against the above prisoners at Kandy on 80th Angost last, 
was reserved by Carr, J. for the deoinon of the judges of the 
Supreme C!ourt collcfctively. 

!Fhe point reserved was trhetlicir a jvety having found a 
prisoner guilty of assault, who was tried for robbery on the 
usual indictment for robbery %hich contains a substantive 
'charge of assault, the conviction is good. 

Oliphant, C. J, and Stark, J.— We are of opinion (<&- 
sentiente Carr, J.) that, as there is no distinction drawn in 
this island between' felonies and ^isdcfmeanours, it is competent 
to find a prisoner guilty of assatilt under the form of indictment 
aforesaid just as he may be found guilty t)f)ioU8ebreakiBg ^en 
indicted for housebrealung and theft. 

Gabr, J.— In this case, I must/dffier in t>pinion from 

my brother judges, as I consider that the cdurt is bound to 

follow the practice and precedents, which have been ado|pted 

and prevailed in puch <fases with the sanction of the judges 

for so many years. 

It is not in iny opinion a mere question of law. The 
Tharter does not empower the judges to make new laws, but it 
expressly directs them by the 5l8t clause to Inake such general 
• rules and orders touching the foiln and manner of proceeding 
at criminal sessions, the practice and pleadings in all suits and 
matters, both civil and criminal, ^he only rules for criminal 
pleading made are Ist that the libels shall be prepalred, allowed 
aud signed by the Queen's Advocate, or his deputy, or by his 
direction; and 2ndly (the rule of the 6th December 1845^ 
that no objection shall lie to the form of an information where 
the objection would not be allowed by the law of England, and 
^o disallc^ objections from the omission to state the venUe, des- 
cription and residence of the accused, or time and place, and to 
allow of property being laid alternately in two persons, or of 
both or one of them. The provisions of this latter rule appear 
to me to tacitly acknowledge and recognize the English forms 
of procedure to prevail here; or else the greater part of it 
would be superfluous and uncalled for under Dutch law. 
Every practitioner in the court, moreover; knows that the 
informations have been mainly drafted from the English prece* 
dents, and that Archbold's Pleading and Evidence in criminal 
cases is our usual text book. Neither the Queen's Advocate 
nor the Kegistrar also can adduce any instance of a prisoner 
having been convicted in this court for assault upon a count 



180 



1 ^' Supreme C^mit 



iffv robbery, and the practice has always been to insert in ^^Sup] 
informations for robbery a second and distinct count for Collective 

assault. ^Ift^o*'*' 

Admitting that by the strict rule of pleading, the charge lo»^» 

of assault in this cou«t is " a diYiAible averment," why intro- "" 

duce that technicality iu a case where we have hitherto avoided 
it. pur having adopteci the English practice of allowing 
verdicts of manslaughter ^ jbe found in charges of murder, or 
t)f theft pn bm^lary, forms mo^ precedent in this case, because 
on the other 'hand, in cases of murder, manslaughter and other 
offences including an assault, we have never allowed a verdict 
or conviction for assault. Abundant instances can also be 
shewn on each circuit where separate counts iot assault have 
heen added in informations for these offences. There is the 
less reason moreover to resort now to this change in our prac- 
tice, when England has recently adopted the very opposite 
course: under the Criminal Justice Improvement Act of the 
14th and 15th Vict. Cap. 100, it is no longer competent for the 
jury on the trial of prisoners for offences whibh include an 
assault to convict the prisoner of the common assault, and it 
has substituted two other provisions, viz. that, in all cases of 
felony and misdemeanour, the prisoner may be found guilty of 
an attempt to commit the same; 2ndly, that in charges of 
robbery, the prisoner may be found guilty of assault with in- 
tent to rob. Under the new Ordinance lately passed, both these 
new enactments have been introduced here without any pro- 
vision that the prisoner on informations for offences which 
include an assault, could not be found guilty of common assault; 
an omission arising obviously from the enactment in 1 Yict^ 
c. 85 sec. 1 1 not having been extended to this colony, and the 
practice hitherto never having prevailed it it; bat I must confess 
my surprise that the Queen's Advocate should, after intro- 
ducing that Ordinance, press for a conviction in this case, or 
seek now to change on old practice, when it is consistent with 
the present law of England. 

It appears to me more desirable to adhere to the course of 
procedure hitherto adopted in cases like the present ; because it 
can only tend to embrcMS a judge on circuit, if he cannot rely 
upon the practice and precedents of the court as his guide on 
objections to criminal pleadings, especially when there are 
no settled rules (except the two referred to), or forms of 
criminal pleadings in the court. Collective decisions on the 
subject are of very rare occurrence; and as to resorting to Dutch 
or Kandyan law on forms of criminal pleading, they would 
admit of changes ad libitum, and are briefly inapplicable. 




__ .181 

^*mprun«Ct>tut With an ignorant population, I think the leas complicated 

0>llectiTe ^anj changes are the better, and that it is preferable to retain 
Minutes, ' ^]^q 2nd <;ount for assault in these cases as being the more simple 
1^52. ^j^^ intelligent mode of proC4&edlng, bath to the minds of & 

"~ native prisoner and jurj^ aoicfl Itaye dt^^Jrs been averse to any 

c^nge in whtiance ia- efie old forms o^ informations, and have 
adhered mjself MOSt strictlj te, thi|y|f ^!irM, %hen I was Queen's 
Advocate, because I know that su^ changes te^ ^^Ij to per- 
plex the native }«torB vho idf used to an<^' t^d^stao^i the 
Accustomed forms. 



Dec. 24. ^^ ^^* ^* Jtmi^. 

^ ^ Tli»>pd^ re«efv^ if( this oitse Was in sUhstaxuse, whether 

whett three cof^icji |^f ft b(md are made oontemporaneouslj— onq 
,of whlcii ii git e|| i^ the i^Uigee, asiother remains in th^ 
msMrffk |)fdtoool, v>nd another is filed in the district coutt 
(aldlough $uch filing is not required by law), — and an infor- 
mation is preferred against the obligor in the bond for perjury, 
in that he charged the notary who drew the bond with afiSxing 
his (the obligors) name to it, without his knowledge or con- 
sent, and in such information the term bond is used generally, — 
the copy filed in the district court can be given in evidence 
without notice to produce, or accounting for the absence of, the 
copy delivered to the obligee,— and whether the copy from the 
' district court having been given in evidence did not afford 

dtoqI only as to the duplicate of a bond and not as to the 
W^vA itself. 

^ * Per Curiam, — -This being A question strictly of evidence 

is to be decided by English law. By that law, it has been laid 
down without a contradictory decldon: ^' That if there are 
^ two contemporary writings, the counterparts of each other, 
<< one which is delivered to the opposite party, and the other 
<' produced, as they may both be considered originals and they 
'^ have equal claims to authenticity, the one which is produced 
" may be received in evidence without notice to produce the 
" one which was delivered :" By Lord EUenborough, PhUpson 
V. Chacej 2 Camp. 110) and no 'case has been cited which 
militates against this doctrine. The three copies made in this 
case are sworn to have been made contemporaneously and mu^t 
be considered as contemporaneous documents, and every one 
of them primary evidence. The copy produced was proved to 
have been signed by the accused and to have been an original 



^ 



triplicate of a bond- laid in the indictment touching which the- ^* BxEptemtpov^ 

accttiled committed perjury. The conviction therefore is good. CoUectiva 

, ^'' ^ ^ Minutes," 

1852. 

Dec. 24^ 



""no: ^^l: } . '^*% - •^«-- 



The point reserved in this case was whether intervenienta 
who come into the suit on the nde of the defendant to dlefend 
the titles- of properties sold bj them to him are to provide 
stamps on their pleadings of the respective values of the lands 
sold by each, or of the value of the whole land as stated in 
the libel. 

Per Ouriami — ^The amount in the claim has hitherto, 
mnless disputed as excessive, been held invariably to regulate 
the stamps on all proceedings in the suit, and we think thi» 
practice should not be departed from. The order of the district 
eourt therefore is affirmed. 













s ^ 

^ 



y 



^- 







h 



