
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



HL anau e 



CEV 




HARVARD LAW LIBRARY 



Received J€^«^ ^ fH % 



k 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 






THE 



SUPREME C0UllTHEP()HT8 



"Reports of @a$c$ 9cci6c^ 



THE SUPREME COURT OF CEYLON . 



WITH A ^ 



G^ DICIEST, 3Sa 



CDITBD BT 



CHAS. M. FERNANDO, HERMANN A. LOOS, 

AND 

H. A. JAYEWARDENE, 
o 

ADVOCATES. 

Volume II.-1893. 

Printkd at the ** Ceylon Independent" Press. -'- i 



1804. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




/, /fol 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DIGEST. 



VOLUME II.— (1893.) 



ABATEMENT OF RENT. Page 

Set Landlord and Tenant, i. 
ACTIO PERSONALIS MORITUR CUM PERSONA. 

See Tort. 
ADJUSTMENT OP DECREE. 

See Judgment, i. 
ADMINISTRATION. 

Administrator — Right to be Hued' hij creditor of deceased 
intestate — Cluipters XXXVIII and L F, Civil Procedure 
Code — Judicial settlement. 

The right of suing the administrator of a deceased intestate accrues 
to the creditors of the deceased immediately upon the grant of letters of 
administration. 

The Civil Procedure Code nowhere prohibits a creditor from suing an 
adiiiinis rator or execuior of a deceased, till one year has expired from the 
dac of probate or grant of Letters of Administration. 

Observations by WITHERS, J., upon the object and effect of the judicial 
settlement of an estate under Chapter LV of the Civil Procedure Code. 

D. C, Colombo, No. 3,085. Perera v. Fernando. . . 54 
ADMIRALTY. 

AdmxralUj — CoUision — Foreign vessel^ action against — 
Admiralty Jurisdiction of tlie Suj)re)ne Court of 
Ceylon — Vice- Ad mi rally Act of 1863 — Ordinance No. 2 
of 1891. 

The Supreme Court of Ceylon in its Admiralty Jurisdiction has the 
same powers as the High Court of England in its Admiralty Jurisdiction, and 
must have the same regard as that Court to international law and the 
comity of nations. 

Hence, the Supreme Court of Ceylon in its Admiralty Jurisdiction 
can entertain a claim for damages against a Foreign Vessel lying in the 
harbours of Ceylon for injuries caused by her to a British ship on the 
High Seas. 

The procedure to be followed in the exercise of such jurisdiction 
is the procedure enacted by the Vice-Admiralty Act of 1863. 

*'TheGelderland" ... ... — — ^3 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( a ) 



Page 



AFFIDAVIT, MAKING FALSE STATEMENT IN. 

See Criminal Law, 4. 
AGREEMENT. 

Agreement by a rmtker to give lier daughter in marriage 
— How to he cmvttrued and hoivfar binding. 

Plaintiff in his libel averred that he proposed and ag^reed to and with 
defendant that he should marry defendant's daughter and that defendant's 
daughter being then a minor, defendant, who according to custom had 
control and authority over hfir to enable her to give her in marriage, agreed 
that her daughter should marry plaintiff within a reasonable time. 

Plaintiff further averred that the defendant failed to perform her part 
of the agreement in that she proposed that her daughter should marry another 
man* 

Hdd^ that the agreement on defendant's part amounted simply to one 
that plaintiff would have her consent to marry her daughter, and, as such, was 
a valid agreement for breach of which plaintiff was entitled to damages. 

//"W. further that the fact that defendant proposed that her daughter 
should mjirry another, did not constitute a breach by her of her _ part of 
the agreement. 

D. C, Batticaloa, No, 24,194. Pammodarampillai v, 
Pangaramuttupillai ... ... ... ... 53 

ALTERATION OF CHARGE. 

See Criminial Law, 5. 
AMENDMENT. 

Set Pleadings, i, 
APPEALABLE ORDER. 

i. — ApjmilOrble ord^r — Recognised Agent — Proxy — Cor- 
poration Aggregate — Seal--Rerogn iacd Agent— Civil 
Procedure Code, Sects, 765, 24, 27, and 470 — Ot^inancc 
No. 22 of 1866. 

The plaintiff compa-y having obtained an interim injunction against 
the defendant company, the latter purported to present a petition to the 
Court applying for a discharge of the injunction. The petition purported 
to be signed by F. L., proctor for the petitioning company, and one 
J. K. After argument the District Judge made order disallowing the 
apolication as made by F. L.. as proctor of the Company, on the ground 
that the Company hka no status to make such an application through F. L. 

. Held, (i) that this was an appealable order. (2) that as the appli- 
cation and proxy had not been taken off the Court's file, and the petition 
of appeal was signed by F. L., the requirements of section 755 of the 
Civil Procedure Code as to signing of the petition of appeal had been 
complied with. 

A Joint Stock Co. is a corporation aggregate, which cannot appear 
in an action, and is consequently outside the provisions of section 24 of 
the Civil Procedure Code. 

Except as provided by special enactment a corporation aggregate, 
can only appear to an action by an Attorney made under its seal, or by 
Attorney appointed in writing by an Agent, and empowered under the 
Company's seal to bring an action, or defend one (See O. B. C. r. Corbet, 
4 S. C. C, 158). 

D, C, Colombo, No. 3,762. The Sewing Machine Case ... 27 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



2— Judgment— AppealalU Order— Civil Procedure Code^ 
Sects. 508^ and 754 — Courts Ordituuice^ section 39. 

The plaintiff^ a Nindagama proprietor, sued the defendants -as 
para wen i tenants of the Nindagama for services alleged to be due but 
not performed by them. The defendants filed answer objecting, as a matter 
of law, that the plaint disclosed no cause of action. The District Judge 
upheld the claim, and decreed a sum of Rs. 121.25 ^^ ^^^ plaintiff, reserving 
for further adjudication the proportion payable by each. The defendants 
appealed. 

Ifeld, (WiTHEBS. J. dissenting) that the order was an appealable one. 
D. C, Kegalla, No. 224. Siatu v. Saduwa ... ..• 123 

S^See Revision. 
ARRACK. 
Arrack — Possession — Removal — "-4 gallon or thereahouts^^^ 
Ordinance No. 10 of 1844, section 8S. 

Section 33 of Ordinance lo of 1844 enacts that **no spirit distilled 
from the produce of the cocoanut or other description of palm, or of the 
sugar cane, in any quantity exceeding two quarts, shall be removed 
without a permit accompanying the same "; — 

Helti, that, under this section, it. was not an offence to be in posses- 
sion of more than two quarts of arrack without a permit. 

The accused was charged with "having been in possession of one 
gallon of arrack or thereabouts without a permit. 

Held, that the charge was bod, inasmuch as a gallon or thereabouts 
may be less than two quarts. 

P. C, Kandy, No. 17,130. Dissanayekb v. Appuhami ... 151 
BOLTING HORSE, ACCIDENT CAUSED BY. 

See Negligence 
BONA FIDE BELIEF OF ACCUSED THAT THE PRO- 
PERTY IS HIS OWN. 

See Criminal Law, 6. 
BURDEN OF PROOF OF NEGLIGENCE. 

See Negligence. 
CHARGE. 

1—CJiarge — Warrant of Commitment — Jurisdiction of 

Police Court— Escape or rescue under sections 219 and 
220 of tlie Ceylmi Penal Code. 

The charge in a prosecution before a Police Court for escape or rescue 
under sections 219 and 220 of the Ceylon Penal Code must disclose the 
nature of the offence for which the prisoner escaping or rescued had been 
taken into custody, it being competent to a Police Magistrate to try such 
a charge where the escape or rescue was from custody in which the pri- 
soner was lawfully detained for an offence with which he was charged, or 
of which he had been conviced, only when such offence was itself cognis- 
able by a Police Court. ,. , . 1 

The warrant of commitment in the present case not disclosing the 
Maeistate's jurisdiction to ly the charge on which the prisoners had 
been convicted, the Supreme Court held that, even if warrants of coip- 
mitment were open to amendment, the present one could not be cured 
in consequence of the defective nature of the charge in the case. 

P. C, BaduUa, No. 10,944. Rambukpotha v. Menica ... 73 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( »▼ ) 



ALTERATION OP. 

See Criminal Law, 5. 
CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE. 
Section 18. 

See Kandyan Law. 
Sections 24 and 37. 

Sec Appealable Okf)er, i. 
Section 55 

See Plaint, 2. 
Section 92. 

See Plaint, 2. 
Section 93. 

See Pleadings, i. 
Section 232. 

See Decree-holdek. 
Section 243. 

See DBCKEfci-HOLnEK. 
Sectiom 246 and 247, 

See Decree-holder. 
Section 247. 

See Minor. 
Section 298 and 306. 

See Writ Agaim.st Person. 
Section 326. 

See Execution of Decree. 

Section 337. 

See Decree. 
Section 345. 

See Cross-Decrees. 
Section 349. 

See Judgment, i. 
Section 352. 

See Decree-holder. 
Section 356. 

See Plaint, 2. 
Section 372. 

See Criminal Law, 4. 
Sections 406 and. 407. 

See Plaint. 
Section 470. 

See Appsalable Order, i. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( V ) 

Section 4S1. 
See Minor. 

Section 508. 

See Appealablf Order, 3. 

Section 682, 
See Minor. 

Seetion 764, 

See Appealable Order. 2. 

Seditm 766, 
See Plaint, 2. 

Section 797. 

See Criminal Law, 4. 

Section 800. 

See Exec ution of Decree. 

Chapters XXXVIII and LV. 

Hce Administrator. 
CLAIM BY MINOR TO PROPERTY SEIZED IN EXECUTION. 

See Minor. 
COLLISION. 

Set- Admiralty. 
CONTEMPT OF COURT. 

See Criminal Law, 2. 

—Criminal Law, 4. 

Execution ok Decree. 

CORPORATION AGGREGATE. 

See Appealable Order, i. 
COVENANT TO PAY RENT, BREACH OF. 

See Lease, i. 
COVENANT FOR QUIET POSSESSION, BREACH OF. 

See Lease, 2. 
CRIMINAL LAW. 

1. — Itinerating Police" Court - Ordinance No. 12 of 1890 — 
Evidence — Dislwnestly retaining stolen property. 

Ordinance No. 12 of 1890 enacts that a Police Court " lawfully 
established in any division shall be holden by and before the Police 
Magistrate appointed thereto, at any convenient spot, within the limits 
of such division ": — Memhh per Lawrie, a. c. j.. that it is desirable 
that, in the case of Police Courts held at different places, as 
permitted by this Ordinance, the Police Magistrate shou'd state, as a 
matter of record, that the place at which he holds his Court is within his 
division, and that it is at a convenient spot for the trial, and that he 
had given due notice that he would sit there. 

Observations on the inconvenience and hardships to which suitors 
and witnesses having to attend the Police Court, lo which the present 
case belongs, are exposed. 

On a charge, under section 394 of the Ceylon Penal Code, 
of dishonestly retaining stolen property, knowing or having reason 10 
believe the same to be stolen, it is necessary that the prosecution should 
prove facts from which it could reasonably be inferred that the possession 
by the accused was dishonest. 

Ad. P. C, Colombo, No. 472, Perera v, Harmanis ... 33 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



2, — Contempt of Court — Jurisdiction — Penal Code, 
Sect, 223. 

Accused were convicted, by the Commissioner of the Court of 
Requests of Kurunegalle, of contempt of Court, in that they interrupted 
the business of the Court by conducting, close to it, a noisy procession. 

ffeldf that the conviction was wrong, inasmuch as the commissioner was 
not competent to try an alleged offence of contempt not committed in 
the presence qf his Court, and not committed in the course of any 
act or proceeding in his Court and declared by any law to be punishable 
as contempt of Court. 

If the conduct of accused amounted to an offence at all, it< was that de- 
scribed by Section 223 of the Penal Code, and triable only by another and 
competent, court. Moreover, the charge should have specified the judicial 
proceeding in which the Court was engaged when interrupted. 

1,646, 

C. R, Kurunegalle, No. In the matter of a charge 

1,492. 
of contempt of Court against Perera and others. ... 39 

S. — Oi'dinance No. 14 of 1878, Sections 5 and, 7 — Repeal — 
Weights and Measures — Striker — Pf^nal Code, 
Sect. 289. 

Section 5 of the Weights and Measures Ordinance No. 14 of 187^ 
specially provides against the use of a measuring striker which is not 
round and straight and of the same diameter from end to end. 

Hffld, that this section has not been affected by the repeal of section 
7 of the same Ordinance, which makes the use of a striker not in con- 
formity with the terms of this section, an offence punishable with fine or 
mprisonment, and that the provision of this section now comes within 
the provision of section 289 of the Penal Code, which enacts as follows : — 

^•Whoever wilfully neglects or omits to perform any duty imposed 
upon him by, or wilfully disobeys or infringes, any provision of any 
Ordinance or statute heretofore or hereafter to be enacted, for which 
neglect, omission, disobedience or infringement, no punishment is or shall 
be, by this Code, or any other Ordinance or statute otherwise specially 
provided, shall be punished with a fine." 

P. C. Hatton, No. 12,940. Harman r. Muttiah and 
others. ... ... ... ... ... 44 

4 — Cfmfempt of Court — making of false statement in 
ajfldarit of servics of process — Penal Code, Sect. 
22s— Civil Procedure Code, Sects. S72 and 797. 

The making of a false statement of fact in an affidavit is not a 
contempt of Court, but the making of a false statement of fact by an 
Officer charged with the execution of process in his affidavit of service of 
process is an offence, which is punisnable. as contempt of Court, under 
Sect. 372 ol the Civil Procedure Code. 

D. C. Criminal, Negombo, No. 1,030. The Queen v. 

' Fern.\sdo ... ... ... ... ... 46 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( ^ ) 

S. — Crimmal Trenpass^Charge — Misckief-^Peptal Gode^ 
Sects. 457 and 408, 

Accused was charged with Criminal trespass in that he ''entered 
upon land in the possession of H. A. with intent to commit an offence/' 

Held^ that ' in such a charge it is essential that the offence intended 
to be committed by the accused after entry should be stated, and that 
the above charge was bad for want of such statement. The evidence^ 
shewing that accused entered upon the land to intimidate, insult and 
annoy the Compiainani. The Supreme Court, however, altered the cbar^ 
accordingly, and convicted accused thereupon. 

Ad. P, C. Colombo, No. 490. Andree i\ Coorav ... 49 

6.— Mischief— Petuil Code, Sect. 409— Bond fide belief of 
tJis (weii4^ that tlie property in Jus own. 

The accused really believing that they had a right of way over the 
prosecutor's land, cut down a portion of a fence which he had put up to 
prevent their entering his land in order to assert their supposed right of way. 

1/M, That the accused were not guilty of mischief, as no person can 
be convicted of mischief who deals injuriously with property in the bonA fide 
belief that it is his own. 

P. C, Panadura, No. 8,999. Fernando v. Bemappu .. 66 

7. — Resistance to arrest — Police — Penal Code^ Sects. 
156 and 219 — Cnminal Procedure Code^ Sect. 34. 

A Police officer has no power under Section 34 of the Criminal 
Procedure Code to arrest, withouta warrant, parties engaged in committing an 
aflfray, as defined in section 156 of the Penal Code. 

P. C. Panadure, No. 9,148, Jayen v. Alloesinno. ... 78 

8 — Offence punishable irith ifnprisonnfcnt or fine — 
Iniprisotunent in default of payment of such fine — Penal 
Code, Sects. 63 ami 454. 

Section 454 of the Penal Code enacts that "whoever commits forgery 
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description which may 
extend to five years, or with fine, or with both." 

Hcld^ that the offence being punishable with a fine alone, the term 
of imprisionment, in default of payment of such, fine, should be regulated 
by section 63 of the Penal Code. 

D. C, Criminal, Matara, No. 9,007. The Queen r. Babun 12S 
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE. 
Section 34. 

Sir Ckimfnal Law. 7. 
Chapter V. 

8fe Gaming, 3. 
CRIMINAL TRESPASS. 

:Ste Criminal Law, 5. 
CROSS DECREES. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( viii ) 

Cross decrees set off— Civil Procfedure Code, Sect. 46. 

A decree obtained against the husband alone, cannot be set off against 
a decree obtained by the husband and wife against the decree holder. 

A decree obtained apfainst a person as administrator, cannot be set 
off against a decree obtained by him personally. 

D. C. Matara, No. 35,936. Missy Nona and her hus- 
band V. Jayasooria and another ... ... 79 

CROWN GRANT. 

Crown Grant —Presuiaptioh of title — Hebuttahle — Sect, 6 

of Ordinance No, 12 of 1840, 

The statutory presumption created hy sepion 6 of Ordinance 12 of 
1840, that all " C5henas and other lands which can only be cultivated after 
intervals of several years, shall be deemed to be forest or waste lands" 
and therefore the property of the Crown, is a rebuiuble presumption. 

Lewis t?. Kiri Apoo 5 S. C. C. 194 followed. 

Per Withers, J. — The presumption of title thus created attaches 
lo the land after it has passed from the Crown to a private subject. 

D. C. Matara, No. 230. Weeresekere v, Seelwvanka. 12 

DECREE. 

Decree — Execution for part of Debt — Waiver—Civil Procedure 

Code, Sect. 337. 

A judgment creditor may not issue execution for a part of the debt, 
unless he waives his right to recover the rest, and each of sicveral joint 
judgment creditors may not issue separate writs to recover a fractional 
share of the debt due to them jointly. 

D. C. Matara, No. 34,620. Ibrahim v. Tillekeratne. ... 67 
DECREE, EXECUTION OF. 
Execution of decree — Refusal to yield up ftoHsession— 

Contempt of Cou^t — Civil Procedure Cffde, Sects. 

326, afid 800. 

Refusal to yield possession of lands under a decree of Court does 
not amount to a contempt of Court. 

D. C. Criminal, Chilaw, No. 26,193. Fernando v. 
Fernando. ... ... ... ... 145 

DECREE-HOLDER, ACTION BY. 

Decree-holder — Sale in fxecution — Unsatisfied decree — 
Necessary averments in j)laint^Civil jfrocedure Code, 
Sfct. 247. 

In an action by the decree-holder under section 247 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, to nave it declared that certain properties are liable to be 
sold in satisfaction of the decree in his favour, it must be alleged and proved 
that at the date of the institution of the action the decree was unsatisfied. 

D. C. Kalutara, No. 640. Perera r. Aberan. ... 119 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( ix ) 
DEPENDANT. AS PLAINTIFF'S WITNESS. 
Defendant as plaintiff's mtness^Tnferested jtarty — 
Adverse witness— 17 and 18 Vict. Cap, 125, Sect. 22. 

The evidence of a defendant called by the plaintiff as his witness, is 
not conclusive against the plaintiff. 

Such evidence is no more than the evidence of an interested party, 
which may be contradicted by the evidence of other witnesses. 

D. C, Galle, No. 1,178. Siman t\ Nando. ... ... 153 

DESTRUCTION OF THING LENT OR HIRED. 

See Loan. 
DISHONESTLY RETAINING STOLEN PROPERTY. 

See CriMINAF. l.AW. i. 
EJECTMENT. 

EjecUnent — Mortgage — Sale hg Mort^/a^jor — Svbsequent 

sale under Mortgage decree. 

A. mortgaged a land to W. and subsequently sold it to S, for the 
purpose of paying off some mortgages that had existed before that of \Vs. 
W. subsequently sold it urjer a mortgage decree, and having bought it 
himself obtained a Fiscal's conveyance. 

Hefd^ that W. had no right to ejects, as at the time of W.'s pur- 
chase A. had no right, title, or interest for the Fiscal to seize or convey. 

D. C, Galle, No. 676. Weeratne v. Silva. 24 

ENTRY IN CHECKROLL. 

See Labourer. 
EXCLUSION OF LIGHT AND AIR. 

See Mandatory Injunction. 
EXECUTION FOR PART OF DEBT. 

See Decree. 
EXEMPTION FROM PAYMENT OF TOLL. 

See Toll. 
FISHING. 

Fishing in tlie high seas — Disturbance ofHghtof-^Dam- 
ages. 

A party enclosing a shoal of fish within a net in the high seaa, al- 
though he has not actually captured them, has sufficient possession of them 
to entitle him to maintain trespass against one who forcibly prevents 
him from drawing his net and securing the said shoal of fish. . 

C. R., Trincomalie, No. 723. Arunakam v. Tampaiya. ... 57 
FRAUDULENT CONVEYANCE. 

FrauduleHf Conveyance — Deed Jwld void iti one suit — 

Validity. 

A deed held to be fraudulent in a suit does not iptto Jacto become void 
as against those who were no parties to the suit. 

D. C, Galle, No. 1,084. Francina v. Nicholas ... 85 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



C X ) 

GAMING. 
l.—Oaming— Ordinance No. 17 of 1889— Effect of Stake. 

The essence of the offence of ^[amingr, as defined by the Ordinance No. 
1 7 of 1889, is the existence of a stake, for which the parties game : 
the Ordinance does not prohibit an assemblage of people from playing games of 
chance, provided there be no stake. 

P. C, Anuradhapura, No. 15,032. Puhaitamby v. Carolis 62 

2.^0amm(j- Sfake^ Ordinance No. 17 of 1889. 
Under Ordinance No. 17 of 1889, the playing of games of chance is lawful, 
provided there be no stake. 

Obser\ations by Lawrie, .\.C.J., on the history of the gaming laws 
of Ceylon. 

P. C, Panadure, No. 8,816. Perera v. Sadirappu 75 

3.— Gaming— 'Ordinance No. 17 of 1889, sections 7, 8 and 
20— Criminal Procedvre Code. Chap. V.-^Instnimefits 
for gaming — Arrest of fcccused— Presumption under 
the Ordinance. 

If instruments for gaming are seized in a house, admittedly a private 
house, it is incumbent on the prosecuiion to prove that the house was 
a common gaming place. 

The discovery by Police witnesses of instruments for gaming inside 
the house, and the escape therefrom of persons seen therein, do not consti- 
tute a presumption under the Gaming Ordinance. Such presunaption can 
only arise when persons, or instruments for gaming, are found in a place 
visited by the Police Magistrate himself under section 8, by a Police Ofticer; 
under a warrant in terms of section 7. 

A Police Magistrate can visit a house or issue his warrant to a Police 
officer only in the circumstances mentioned in the 7th and 8th sections. 

Add, P. C, Colombo, No. 4,821. Jonklaas v. Perera 95 

GUARDIAN, MORTGAGE BY 

See Mortgage, i. 
GUARDIAN AD LITEM. 

See Minor. 
HEIRS, LIABILITY OF 

2. — Adiating an inheritance — Widotv and children of 
deceased debtor — Executor de son tort — Liability of lieirs. 

Observations on the alleganda ct probanda necessary to render an heir 
in possession of the deceased's estate liable for the debts of the deceased, and 
the extent of such liability. 

D. C, Kandy. No. 90,200, VI. S. C. C. 13. followed. 

D. C*, Chilaw, No. 472, Chetty ?•. Ettana ... .. no 

2. — Deceased debtor — Heirs in possession — Executor de son 
tort. 

Where on the death of the debtor, the next of kin enter into possession 
of his estate, and by active steps, take the benefit therefrom, they become 
liable for the debts of the deceased to the extent of the benefit. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xi ) 

Per Browne, j.— An heir is liable to the extent of the property of the 
deceased which has come into his possession, and a decree could be entered 
against the estate of the deceased. 

D. C, Negombo, No. 559, Pulle i\ Pulle '... ... 105 

INJUNCTION. 

Stf Mandatorv Injinction. 
INTERRUPTION OF TENANT'S ENJOYMENT OF LEASED 
PREMISES. 
Set Landlord and Tenant 2. 
ITINERATING POLICE COURT. 

Stc Criminal Law, i. 
JOURNEYMAN ARTIFICER. 

Jfturnet/nian Artificer — Mdchine-mler — Ordinance 
No, 11 of l86o^ SWfitmn 3, 6, 7 am! 11— Chat^e^ Alter- 
ation of. 

A Machine-ruler, who has entered into a contract of monthly service, 
i*a "Journeyman Artificer"' within the meaning of Ordinance No. 1 1 of I?65. 

P. C, Colombo, No, 26,803. Cave i\ William... ... 157 

JUDGMENT. 

i. — Judgment — Reviral of— Adjustment — Certificate un- 
der section 349 Civil Procedure Code. 

Under section 349 of the Civil Procedure Code, " if any money payable 
under a decree is paid out of Court, or the decree is otherwise adjusted 
in whole or in part to the satisfaction of the decree-holder, he shall 
certify Such payment or adjustment to the Court whose duty it is to 
execute the decree. The judgment debtor may also by petition inform 
the Court of such payment or adjustment, and apply to the Court to 
issue a notice to the decree holder to show cause, on a day to be 
fixed by the Court, M*hy such payment or adjustment should not be 
recorded as certified." 

Held, that, notwithstanding the revival of judgment, the Court may 
record a< certified on the petition of the judgment debtor any adjustment 
or pa3rment made before such revival. 

D. C, Kalutara, No. 39,788. Silva v. Podisinno, ... 18 

See Appealable Ordep, 3. 

JUDGMENT BY DEFAULT. 

Judgtnent by default — Notice^ want of— Setting aside 

judgment— Claim in reconventirm. 

A jtid^ent by default, havine been set aside, the second defendant 
was allowed to defend the action on the grounds that he had no notice of the 
proceedings, and that he disclosed the substantial defence of pajrment. 

The second defendant pleaded payment, and also made a claim in 
reconvention for damages, accrued since issue of summons in plaintiffs 
action by reason of alleged illegal acts done by the plaintiff. 

Held, that the defence of payment and counter claim could not be 
pleaded together. 

D. C. Galle, No. 54,611. Cornelis v. De Silva. ... 83 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xii ) 

JUDICIAL SETTLEMENT. 

See Administration. 
KANDYAN LAW. 

Kandyan Law — Illegitimate children — Acquired property 
^ —Widow, riyht of— Civil Procedure God^, Sect. 18. 

According to the Kandyan Law, the illegitimate children of a deceased 
succeed to his acquired property provided there be no legitimate children, 
and no widow surviving. 

If there be both legitimate and illegitimate children, the acquired 
property is divided between them. 

D, C, Kandy, No. 6,473. Mahatmaya v. Banda. ... 142 

LABOURER. 

Labourer — Ordinance No. 11 of 1866, and No. IS of 
1889 — Entry in checkroll — Notice to quit. 

In a prosecution under section 1 1 of Ordinance No. 1 1 of I865, of a labourer » 
for quitting prosecutor's service without leave or reasonable cause or previous 
warning, although there was no evidence that the name of the accused 
had been entered in the check roll of the estate, there was evidence 
that he had received rice from the prosecutor, who was the Superinten- 
dent of the estate, and it appeared that the accused had given notice to rhe 
prosecutor that he would quit the prosecutor's service and leave the estate 
on the ground that his wages were due and unpaid for over sixty days from 
the expiration of the nionths, during which such wages hnd been earned. 

Held, that this was sufficient evidence of the fact that accused retjarded 
himself as a labourer on the estate within the meaning of the Ordinance. 

P, C, Nuwara Eliya, No, 7,563. Walker v. Palaniyandi, 63 

LACHES 

Sec Mandatory Injuncton. 
LANDLORD AND TENANT. 

1. — Landlorxl and tenant — Misdencription of property 
leased — AhcUement of Rent-^Roman-Dntch Law — Res- 
tituo in integrum — Notahlis Error. 

Per Lawrie. a. C. J.— -In the absence of fraud on the part of the 
lessor, when lands are leased, and there is no dispute as to the lessee 
having received the whole estate, which he meant to take on lease, he is 
not entitled to abate the rent from the price on account of a mere error 
in setting forth the property by way of description, and consisUng of so 
many acres, or yielding such an amount of rental. 

The remedy of rextituo In ««/<?<//•« wis available in all rases w here the 
contract can be shewn to have proceeded in total misconcepticni. 

P<fr Withers, j.— Where the lessor has made out the property to be 
much larger than it is actually found to be. i. ^., where the misdescription 
in regard to the quantity is a notable one, the lessee is entitled to have 
the rent reduced in proportion to the small extent of ground. 

D. C, Colombo, No. 2,533. Stork v. Orchard. (The 
Comillah Estate case.) ... ••• ••• ^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xi« ) 

2,^ Landlord and Tenant — Liability of landlotrl to put 
tenant in jtossession of premises let — Inten^ipti^n by 
landlord or strangers of TenanVs enjoyrtient of the 
2)remises, 

Per WiTHEKS, J. — In an action for rent by landlord against tenant 
it is a good defence that the landlord did not implement the contract of 
letting by putting the tenant in possession of the property let, and if the 
tenant had advanced money iJjr-way of rent for the use of the premises 
of which the landlord had failed to put him in possession, he might recover 
ihe money so paid as money had and received by the landlord for the use 
of the tenant. 

Interruption by the landlord, or any one under him. of the tenant's 
enjoyment of the premises let, is no answer to a claim for rent due and 
payable before such interruption, but it is ground for a tenant's claim to 
nave the contract of lease cancelled and for recovery of damages consequent 
on the interruption. 

Interruption of a tenant by strangers after the tenant has been put in 
possession by the landlord is no answer to a claim for rent, unless such 
interruption was followed by eviction in due course of law, and it is then 
only an answer to a claim for rent that has become due after such in- 
terruption. 

Such interruption is no grounJ for a cbim to damages or cancelhi- 
ion of the lease, unless it was followed by eviction in law and due notice 
had been given to the landlord, in the proceedings terminating in execution, 
to warrant and defend the defendant's title. 

D. C, Chilaw, No. 433, Saibo v. Appuhami ... 126 

LAST WILL. 

Last } Vill — Incidental p roof—Incon venience — Probate. 

A Court may, in iis discretion, allow a Will to be proved incidentally 
in the course of an action; but it would be highly inconvenient to do so. 

Where a Will is sought to be so proved the Court would be well- 
advised if it adjourns the case, to enable the parties to prove the Will in 
independent proceedings. 

D. C, Negombo, No. 16,443. Fernando v. Fernando ... 150 
LEASE. 

i. — Lease— Covenant to pay rent^^Breach of ^Forfeiture 

afid Re-entry-^ Equitable relief. 

A Court has power, in the exercise of its equitable jurisdiction, to grant 
relief — where the circumstances warrant such relief—to a lessee against 
a clause of forfeiture and re-entry for breach of covenant to pay rent. 

The firms of nn indenture of lease can only be altered by an indepen- 
dent contract satisfying the statute of Frauds. 

Per Lawrie, a. c.j. — In equity the construction put on a clause of 
forfeiture of a lease on nonpayment of rent is that it is a mere security 
for the payment of rent, and as the breach of that covenant is capable of 
a just compensation, a Court of equity may award the compensation and 
abstain from enforcing the forfeiture. 

D. C, Kandy, No. 5,470. Sandford v. Don Peter ... 35 • 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xiv ) 

^, — Lease — Breach of coveymnt for quiet possession— Action 
against lessor — Damages. 

Plaintiffs, and 5th defendant, grot a lease from the first four defendants. 
At the date of lease, the land demised was under lease to lessees, of whom 
the 5th defendant was one. These lessees having refused to give up 
pofsession, the plaintiffs sued for damages consequent on the breach of 
covenant for quiet possession. 

Held^ (per BURNSIDE, c j. and Withers, j.) that some co tenants 
cannot sue a landlord for the breach of a covenant to let them into pre- 
mises at a day fixed under a demise for a term of years, when one of them 
has been let in, and enjoys the benefits of the lease made jointly to him 
and those whom he has tortiously excluded from the premises. 

Per Lawrie, j.— If under a lease the lessor impliedly contracts to give 
the lessee possession at the commencement of the term, and if he fails to 
do so by reason of a previous tenant wrongfully holding over, the lessee 
may recover damages, and is not driven to bring ejectment against the 
previous tenants. 

D. C, Matara, No. 240. Subehami v, Basnayeke . . 44 

LIABILITY OF LANDLORD TO PUT TENANT IN POS- 
SESSION OF PREMISES LET 

Sec Landlord and Tenant, 2. 
LOAN 

Loan — Hire — Destruction of thing lent or hired — Liability 
of bailee. 

Where a person borrows or hires a thing, he is bound to return it, 
unless he is prevented from doing so by something for which he was not 
responsible. 

In an action for damages for non-return of a bull loaned to the defend- 
ant, he pleaded that it was killed by a leopard while in his possession. 

Heldf a bad plea, unless it could be shown that the defendant had 
taken the utmost care of the animal, or that it was at ^e time of the ac* 
cident under the care of the plaintiff^s servant. 

C. R,, Chavakachcheri, No. 7,444. Velayadan v. Geddes 140 
MANDATORY INJUNCTION. 

Mandatory injunction — Erection of Wall — Exclusion of 
light and air — Prescription — Laches, 

In an action for an injunction restraining the defendant from erecting 
buildings, so as to prevent free access of light and air to plaintiff's house, 
and also for a mandatory injunction ordering: the defendant to remove a 
building already erected. 

/^(p'*^, that the plaintiff was entitled to an order restraining the defendant 
from constructing any further building so as to prevent free access of light 
and air to plaintiff's house. 

Held^ also, that the plaintiff was not entitled to a mandatory in- 
junction ordering the defendant to remove the building already constructed, 
she having been guilty of laches in having allowed 3 or 4 yean to elapse 
before applying for such remedy. 

D. C, Trincomalie, No. 197. Pillai v. Tambf ... 59 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( XV ) 

MARRIAGE, AGREEMENT TO GIVE IN. 

See Agreement, i. 

MINOR. 

Minor — Ouardian ad litem — Claim to property seized in 

execution — Sects. 24 7^ 481 and 682 of tlie Civil Pntcednre 

Code. 

A claim to property seized by the Fiscal in execution of a decree 
was made. or. behalf of a minor, by his uncle, who however had not 
been appointed his guardian The claim was reported by the Fiscal to 
the Court, which after investigation, disallowed it. 

He1<t^ that the minor was not a party to such investigation, and was 
not entitled to institute an action under section 247 of the Civil Procedure 
Code to have the seizure released. 

Semble^ Per LaWRIE, a. C. J,— (i) Where the mother of a minor, 
without being appointed his guardian ad litems files a plaint on behalf 
of the minof, and is afterwards appointed such guardian, the date of such 
appointment is the date of the institution of *he case. 

(2.) The order of a District Judge allowing a party to sue as guardian 
ad litrm must disclose his jurisdiction to make such order. 

D. C, Kegalle, No. 160. Deen v. Pulle ... ... 81 

MISCHIEF. 

See Criminal Law, 6. 
MISDESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY. 

See Landlord and Tenant, i. 
MORTGAGE OF PROPERTY BY GUARDIAN. 

Mortgage by guardian — Liability o/gtui9^ian — Liability 
0/ Minors — Ratification — Knowledge and Acquiescence. 

The first defendant acting in good faith, but without authority, as 
guardian of the other defendants, who were minors, mortgaged with the 
plaintiff certain property belonging to the latter. The plaintiff claimed a 
money judgment against all the defendants and a mortgage decree against 
the immoveable property. 

Beld^ that plaintiffs action failed (<i) against the first defendant 
because he did not bind himtelf as principal and (h) against the other 
defendants because the first defendant was not authorized to incur debt on 
their behalf, and there was no proof that they ratified the mortgage when 
they came of age. 

D. C, Matara, No. 35,918. Bastian v. Andris ... 114 

MORTGAGED PROPERTY, SEIZURE OP 
Claim in Execution — Seizure of mortgaged property — 

Claimant's Lien—Ciml Procedure Code, Sects. 282, 

248, 246 and 852. 

The plaintiff against whom an order under Section 244 had been 
passed, brought his action as mortgagee of certain timber, without possess- 
ion, to have it declared that the said timber was not liable to seizure and sale 
under defendant's writ. 

It was argued on behalf of the plaintiff appellant that, as mortgagee 
of the timber he was entitled to his prayer. For the defendant it was 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xm ) 

contended that no binding contract or mort^af^c over the timber was made 
out, but taking that as proved, it was further contended that the right 
under the contract was not a right that could defeat execution under 
defendant's writ. 

flfld^ that it never was the law before the Civil Procedure Code that 
mortgaged property could not be seized and sold under a wiit o( p' fa 
for the lev}' of a money judgment, and that the law is still unaltered. 

f/eld^ also, that if a claimant has goods of the debtor under a writ of 
lien, the judgment creditor must first satisfy the lien before he takes the 
property m execution. 

//r///, also, that an unsuccessful claimant has no right, under the 
circumstances to bring an action under section 247. 

Observations by Browne, J. on the current of authorities. 

D. C, Ratnapura, No. 225. Wijewardene v, Maitland 90 

NEGLIGENCE. 

Negligence — Bolting Jujrse — Burden of proof— Evidence. 

The mere happening of an accident does not throw on the 
defendant the onus of disproving negligence, nor does the mere fact of a 
horse bolting raise a prima facie presumption of negligence. 

D. C, Galle, No. 1,391. Silva ik Pate ... .., 71 

NONSUMMARY CHARGE. 
See Preliminary Inquiry. 
OBSTRUCTION OF PERSON EXECUTING THE LAWFUL 
ORDER OF A PUBLIC SERVANT. 

Obstntction of person executing the Inwfvl order of a 
public se?%*ant — Penal God£^ Sect, 18S, 

In order to support a conviction under Sect. 183 of the Penal Code 
for obstructing a person executing the lawful order of a public ser\'ant, 
the order must be one which it was competent to the public servant to 
make. 

P. C, Chilaw, No. 5,225. Telesinghe v. Anthony ... 129 
ORDINANCES. 
No. 12 of 1840, Section 6. 

Sec Crown Grant. 
No. 10 of 1844, Section S3. 

See Arrack. 
.Vo. 11 of 1866, Sections 3, 6, 7 and 11. 

See Journeyman Artificer. 
No. 11 of 1865, Section 11. 

Sec Labodrer. 
No. 16 of 1865, Section 16. 

See Tom-tom. 
No. 22 of 1866, 

See Appealable Order, 1. 
No. 14 of 1867, Section 7, 

See Toll. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xvii ) 



Xo. 14 of 187 S, Serf torn -5 and 7. 

Sff Criminfal Law, 3. 
No. 1 of 18H9, Sent ion 39. 

Sftf Appealable Order. 2. 
No. 2 of 1889. 

Sfe CrvrL Procedire Code. 
.Y/>. 13 of 1889. 

Sf*tt Labourer. 
.V/>, 12 of 1890. 

Str CRrMFNAL LaW, 1. 

Xo. 2 of 1891. 

f'ef Admfraltv. 
OVERHANGING BRANCHES. 

Sre SeRVITCDE. 

PENAL CODE. 

$Sprtion 63. 

*r Crfmlnal Law, 8. 
Section 166. 

Sri Criminal Law, 7. 
Sedion 183. 

8fe OBSTRnmoN. 
Section 219. 

Sfe Charge, f. Cri.mimal Law, 7. 
Section 220. 

Sfifi Charge, i. 
Section 223. 

See Criminal Law. 2. 4. 
Section 289. 

*Ser Criminal Law. 3. 
Section 294. 

See Criminal Law. i. 
Section 408. 

See Criminal Law. 5. 
Section 409. 

See Criminal Law, 6. 
Section 427. 

Sue Criminal Law, 5. 
Section 454. 

S?e Criminal Law, 8. 
Chapter IV. 

S-e Criminal Law, 3. 

PLAINT, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xviii ) 

7. — Defect we plaint — Fresh action— Pe nod of prescript i(m 
and limitation — Civil Procedure Code^ Sects. 247^ 406 
and 407. 

On a plea of non-joinder an action under Seel. 247 of the Civil 
Procedure Code was withdrawn and a fresh action brought. 

Held, that Sect. 407 of the Civil Procedure Code applied, and that 
the plaintiff was bound by the period of limitation of fourteen days as 
recited in Sect. 247, as if the first action had not been brought. 

D. C.-, Chilaw, No. 215. Fernando i\ Jamel. . . 88 

2. — Plaint — Prolixity — St mi tnons — Issue and Service — 

Irregulctrity — Waiver — Civil Proredure Code^ Sections, 

55, 92, S56 and 756, 

Where a plaint is so prolix and embarrassing as to be oppressive, it 
is the duty of the defendant, who is summoned to answer it, to apply to 
the Court, at the earliest opportunity, to have the plaint taken off the file. 

Where the defendants appeared in obedience to summons and applied 
for, and obtained, 14 days' lime to file answer, and on the day before the 
answer was due moved to have the plaint taken off the file as embarrassing 
and unintelligible. 

J7eW, that the motion was made too la'.e, and that the defendants 
having obtained time to file answer must be considered 10 have waived 
all objections to the plaint and the summons. 

Per Withers and Browne, j.j. Issue of summons unauthorized by 
the Judge's signature and entry of date is irregular. 

Per Withers, j. — Where summons has not been duly served in ac- 
cordance with the provisions of section 55 of the Civil Procedure Code, 
the defendant is not bound to appear and no judgment by default can be 
entered against him. If he appears he cures the irregularity. 

Per Browne, j.— Notice of appeal under section 756 of the Civil 
Procedure Code must be served by the Fiscal. 

D. C, Negorabo, No. 1,195, Senanayeke v, Appu ... 135 

PLEADINGS, AMENDMENT OF. 

Pleadings — A mcndment — Notice — Postponement — Costs 
— Civil Procedure Code, section 93. 

On the day of trial the Court, in the presence of the parties, allowed 
the plaint to be amended by the addition of certain words. The amendment 
not being a material one in that it did not alter the issues in the case :— 

Held, that the defendant was not entitled to a postponement of the case. 

Per Withers, j. — An order allowing an amendment should direct the 

delivery of the amended pleading within a given time to the opposite party. 

D. C, Kegalla, 153. The Attorney-General v, Appuhamy 15 
POSSESSION OF ARRACK. 

See Arrack. 
PRELIMINARY INQUIRY. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xix ) 

PreUminanj inquiry— Xon-itufNfnari/ rhart/r — Dinrharge 
by Police Magiatratr — ApperiL 

A Magistrate holding a preliminary inquiry into a non-sumraary charge 
has the discretion of deciding whether there are sufficient grounds for 
committing the accused for trial. 

It is the duty of the Magistrate in such a case to ascertain whether 
there are grounds for putting the accused to the ignominy and expense 
of a trial ; and the Magistrate would fail in his duty, if he send up a caae 
for trial where he considered the prosecution was utterly unreliable, and that 
there was no possibility of a conviction. 

P. C, Negombo. i6,ioi, Mendis /*. Appuhami ... 148 

PRESUMPTION OF TITLE. 

Ste Crow.n Grant. 
PROBATE. 

See Last Will. 
PROXY. 

Ste Al»FEALAULE ORDER, I. 

RATIFICATION BY MINOR. 

See Mortgage by Guardian. 
RECOGNISED AGENT. 

Si'e Apvealable Ordek, I. 
RE-ENTRY. 

Sm Lease, i. 
REFUSAL TO YIELD UP POSSESSION. 

Set Execution of Decree. 
REMOVAL OF ARRACK. 

See Arrack. 
RESTITUO IN INTEGRUM. 

See Landlord and Tenant, i. 
REVISION. 

Rcviaiim —Appealable onkr — Dcrrrv nigncd by Judge after 
lip has become ^^ fa net us ojficio,''' 

An order ending thus— *'It is ordered that the libel be rejected as it 
has not been amended as directed bv the Court. The plaintiff will pay 
the defendant his costs of the action ' — is an order con.plete in itself and 
not requiring to be followed by a formal order, and is a final order against 
which an appeal lies. 

A person, who has ceased to hold office as District Judge, has no power 
to sign the formal decree consequent on a judgment delivered by him when 
in office. 

As a gcnerAl rule, the Supreme Court will not, except in very ex- 
ceptional cases, review an order from which an appeal might have been, 
but has not been, taken. 

D. C, Kegalle, No. 335, Davidson r. Silva ... ... 10 

REVIVAL OF JUDGMENT. 

See Jhdgme.nt. I. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( XX ) 

SbRVITUDE. 

Servitude — OverhanginghranclteH^CO'Owners^Injunriion 
Damages. 

An owner of a land, over which a tree overhangs, has the right to a 
decree ordering such tree to be cut down, although such owner be tenant in 
commo with defendants of the lands supporting the tree. 

Semble, P^r Withers, j.— The joint owner of an oveihanging tree has 
no right to cut it down himself except with the consent of his co-owners. 

C. R., Trincomalie, 873, Malar v. Kirithatkandu ... 97 

SET- OFF. 

f^e Cross-Dfcreis. 
STAKE. 

See Gaming. 
STRIKER. 

See Criminal Law, 3. 
SUPREME COURT, ADMIRALTY JURISDICTION OF. 

See Admiralty. 
THESAWALAME. 

The Tlmawalame^ Contract of jnnrhase and sale — 
Cvstom — Formalities — Pffblication and Uduyar's 
Schedule — Pre-emption — Pleadings— 'Transfer in fraud 
of creditor. 

Publication and Udayar's schedules are not requisites essentiaUo the 
validity of a contract for the purchase or sale of land in the pro%nnce of 
Jaffna. 

//r///, \hat these formalities were designed to protect the right of 
third parties \o pre-emption. 

Htld also, that where plaintiff had not in his plaint questioned the 

validity of the form of execution of a deed, it was not necessary for 
defendant to prop up by averment each detail of due execution. 

C. R., Kayts, No. 1,015, Katte Kechu v. Narany ... 98 
TOLL. 

Ordinance No. 14 of 1867 — Exemption from payment of 
toll. 

A certificate signed by a District Kngineer ''that the accompanying 
conveyance of A B is employed this day (January 14.) and until December 
31, 1x93, in the service of the Public VVoiks Department, Chilaw, within 
10 miles of the toll station of .Madampe" is not a suflficieiii certificate of 
exemption from payment of toll under Seel. 7 of Ordinance 14 of 1867. 

P. C, Chilaw, No. 5,361, Murugasen r. Perera ... 79 
TOMTOM. 

Tom-tom^ Imitjng of—Attrgntions and proof— Licence — 
Ordiiifirice No. 16 of ISOo, .section 90. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xxi ) 

tn a proscrulion under section Qo of Ordinance l6 of tJ^ftj, it is not 
incumbent on the complainant to allege and prove that bealinfir a tom-tom 
was calculated to fricfhtcn horses, or that it was done by night so as lo 
disturb the lepose of the inhabitants. It is enough to allege and prove 
that the accused, not beinp under Military Regulations, beat a tom-tom, 
within a town, without a licence. 

M. C, Colombo, No. 7,707, Van Houten v. Soota ... 160 
TORT. 

Torf —Actio jTPrsonah'fi moritur ntm persona — 3 and 4 

Will IV, C. 4i^ — Wrong done hy deceased — Liabilihj of 

legal rep reaen tat ire. 

Per Lawkie. J.— The law in Ceylon in regard to the liability of ihe 
lejjal representative of a deceased for any wrong committed by him in his 
life time is governed by the Act 3, Will l\\, C. 4^. The legal represent- 
ative must, however, under the Act be sued within six months of his liking 
upon himself the administration of the estate. 

D. C, Galle, No. 1,014, Weerasiri v, Sanchihamy ... 6 

UDAYAR S SCHEDULE. 

See Thesawalame. 

WAIVER OF IRREGULARITIES. 

See Plaint, 2. 

WARRANT OF COMMITMENT. 

See Charge, i. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

See Criminal Law. 3. 

WRIT AGAINST PERSON. 

Writ againat pernon — Rupeefi ftro hundred — Partial 

remvery — Action for realisation of mortgage — Form of 

Wnt — More than one judgment debtor — Sejuirate Writ — 

Ciril PrtHTdure Code, SectiofiA 298 and 396. 

On the return to a Writ of Execution against property, in satisfaction 
of a decree awarding a sura of Ks. 2oo and over, that property of a judgment 
debtor has been levied as a part of the sum so decreed, and that the Fistal 
can find no further properly of the debtor out of which to levy the unsatisfied 
balance, the Court may issue a warrant for the arrest of ihcljud»<eraent-debtor. 

D. C, Colombo, 2,670, De Silva r. Sella Umma. 153 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TABLE OF CASES REPORTED. 



Andree v. Cooray. 

490, Ad. P. C, Colombo 
Arunakam v. Tampaiya. 

723, C. R., Trincomalie 
Attorney-General r. Appuhami. 

153, D. C, Kegalle 
Bastian v. Andris. 

35,918, D. C, Matara... 
Cave r. William. (Cave's case) 

26.803, P. C, Colombo 
Chetty V. Ettana. 

472, D. C, Chilaw 
Cornells v. De Silva. 

5^,611, D. C, Galle 
Davidson v. Silva. 

335, D. C, Kegalle ... 
Dcen V. Pulle. 

160, D. C, Kegalle 
De Silva i\ Sella Umma. 

2.670, D. C, Colombo 
Dissanayeke v. Appuhami. 

17,130, P. C, Kandy 
Fernando i-. Bemappu. 

8,999, P. C Panadure 

Fernando v. Fernando. 

26,193, D. C, Crim. Chilaw 
Fernando v. Fernando. 

16,443, D. C, Negombo 
Fernando v. Jamel. 

215, D. C, Chilaw 

Francina v. Nicholas. 

1,084, ^' C., Galle ... 
Harman v. Muttiah. 

12,940, P. C, Hatton 
Ibrahim r. Tillekeratne. 

34,620, D. C, Matara 



Page. 

49 

57 
15 

157 
III 

3« 
10 
81 

55 

151 

66 

145 

88 

«5 
44 
67 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xxiii ) 

In the matter of a charge of contempt of Court against Perera 
and others. 
1,646 

, r. R., Kurunegalle ... • ... ... 39 

1492 

J ay en v. Alloesinno. 

9,148, P. C, Panadure ... 78 

Jonklaas v, Perera. 

4,821, Add. P. C, Colombo ... ... 95 

Kattekachu v. Narany. 

1,015, C. R., K.iyts .. ... 9S 

Mahatmaya v Banda. 

6,473, D. C, Kandy, .. ... ... 142 

Mala- V. Kirithatkandu. 

873, C. R., Trincomalie ... 97 

Mend is r. Appuhami. 

16,101, P. C, Ne^oniho ... ... ... 14S 

Missy Nona v. Jayesooria. 

35'93^n ^- <-•> Matara... ... 79 

Murugasen v. Perera. 

5,361, P. C, Ohilaw ... ... ... 76 

Pammodarampillai v. Pangmuttupillai. 

24,194, D. C, Batticaloa ... 51 

Perera r. Aberan. 

640, D. C, Kalutara ... ... ... 119 

Perera r. Fernando. 

3,085, D. C, Colombo... ... 54 

Perera v. Harmanis. 

472, Add. P. C, Colombo ... ... ... 33 

Perera v. Sadirappu. 

8,816, P. C, Panadure ... 75 

Pillai V. Tambi. 

197, D. C, Trincomalie ... .. ... 59 

Puhaitamby v. Carolis. 

15,032, P. C, Annuradhapura ... 62 

Pidle V. Pulle. 

559, D. C. Negombo ... ... ... 105 

Rambukpotha v. Menica. 

10,944, P. C, Badulla ... 73 

Saibo V. Appuhami 

433, I>. C, Chilaw ... ... .. 126 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



( xxiv ) 

Sandford r. Don Peter. 

5,470, D. C, Kandy ... ... 35 

Senanayeke i'. Appu. 

1,195, D. C, NegomHo ... ... ... 135 

Siatu I?. Saduwa. 

224, D. C, Kegalle ... ... 123 

Silva r. Pate. 

1,391, D. C, Galle ... ... ... 71 

Silva V. Podi Sinno. 

39,788, 1). C, Kalntara ... i^ 

Simon v. Nando. 

1,178, D. r., Galle ... .. ... 153 

Singer Manufacturing Company v. Sewing Machine Company. 

3,762, D. C, Colombo ... 27 

Stork V. Orchard. 

c. 2,533, ^- ^•' Colombo ... .. ... I 

Subehami v. Basnayeke. 

240, D. C, Matara ... ... 4^ 

Telesinghe v. Anthony. 

5,225, D. C, Chilaw ... ... ... 129 

The Comillah Estate case. 

c. 2,533, D. C, Colombo ... i 

The Gclderland. 

The Gelderland ... ... ... 130 

The Queen r. Babun 

9,007, D. C, Crim. Matara ... ^28 

The Queen r. Fernando. 

1,030, D. C, Crim. Negombo ... ... 4^ 

The Shewing Machine case. 

3,762, D. C, Colombo ... 27 

VanHouten v. Soota. 

7,707, M. C, Colombo ... ... ... 160 

Velayadan v. Geddes. 

7,444, C. R., Chavakacheri ... H^^ 

Walker v. Palaniandi. _ 

7,563, p. C, N'Eliya ... 63 

Wecraratna v. Silva. 

676, D. C, Galle ... ... 24 

Weerasiri v. Sanchihami. 

1,014, D. C, Galle ... ... — 69 

Weeresekere v. Seelawanka. 

230, D. C, Matara . . ... 12 

Wijewardene v. Maitland 

225, D. C, Ratnapura ... •:. ••. 9° 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE 



Supreme Court Reports 

BEING 

Reports of Cases decided 

BY THE 

SUPREME COURT OF CETLON. 



Edited by Chas. M. Fernando, Advocate, 



Before La^vrie^ a. c. j. and Withers^ j. 

May 9 and i6, 1893. 

STORK V' ORCHARD and anethcr, 

[Hie Comillah Estate Case."] 

[No. C. 2,533 D. Cf, Colombo.] 

Landlord mnd Tenant — Misdesoription of p7y>perit/ leased--^ 

Akatement 0/ I^U — Roman Dutch La'^^ReitiiiUio in 

integrum — Notahilis error. — 

Per Lawrie. a. c. J« — I" the absence of fraud on the part of the lessor, 
when lands are leased and there is no dispute as to the lessee having received 
the whole estate, which he meant to take on lease, he is not entitled to 
abate the rent from the price on account of a mere error in setting forth the 
property by way of description, as consisting of so many acres, or yielding 
such an amount of rental. 

The remedy ot Jir4UHfio tn integrum is available in all cases where the 
contract can be shewn to have proceeded in total misronception. 

Per Withers J.— Where the lessor has made out the property to be much 
larger than it is actually found o be — « r., where the misdescription in regard 
to the quantity is a notable one, the lessee is entitled to have the rent reduced 
in proportion to the small extent of ground. 

The following judgment, delivered by the learned District 
Judge [Browne] on October 17, iSga, fully set out the facts 
of the case: — 



B X 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



i THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol, U. 

Stork In this action plaintiff sues the defendants to recover 

Orchard, from them Rs, 1,500 arrears of rent for the period from ist 

The^Comtl- J""^> ^^9^» ^^ *^^ 2^^^ February, 1892, due on a lease by 

LAH Estate him to them of the Comillah Estate, which he and they 
Case.1 

entered into on the 7th March, 1890, and he prays also a 

cancellation of the lease. The defendants deny that they 
have committed any breach of the lease, for that, at the 
execution of the lease, plaintiff represented to them that the 
extent of tea under cultivation was eighty acres, and the rent 
was by them calculated on the faith of such representation, 
whereas the true acreage was under 48 acres, and that they 
on discovery of the discrepancy claimed refund of past over- 
payments and reduction of future instalments of rent to the 
amount of Rs. 200 a quarter. The plaintiff, in reply denied 
that he had made any such representation but that before 
the agreement for the lease he had put the defendants on 
enquiry as to the areas within the estate of tea, cocoanut 
and paddy cultivation, and that they had inspected the estate 
and satisfied themselves thereof before the agreement of lease 
had been entered into. About the middle of January, 1890, 
the estate in question was advertised for sale or lease, and 
whether with or without the plaintiff's authority, it was 
therein described as of certain acreage in these different culti- 
vations among which was 80 acres of tea. Negotiations for 
its lease were entered into at first between plaintiff and second 
defendant (who has not given any evidence thereof,)- and 
afterwards between plaintiff and ist defendant. Both of these 
gentlemen have been examined, and in many respects in' their 
recollections of what then passed as to acreage, they are 
entirely at variance with one another, 1st defendant asserts 
that in at least two interviews plaintiff informed him there 
were fully 80 acres of tea on the estate, while plaintiff asserts 
that, when ist defendant once questioned him, he said he 
had no survey and could not give him the acreage. So far 
as it is necessary to come to a conclusion thereon, my finding 
is that acreages were mentioned and were given approximately, 
but without any assurance of their certainty or accuracy. It 
is but only reasonable to assume as probable that the tea 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



June xo, *g3.] thb suwema court riports. 3 

planter would desire this information and that the intending Stork 
lessor would inform him but without any positive pledge thereof. Orchard. 
In the conflict of recollection I am guided to this conclution, r^* "TT 
chiefly by the two letters of that time, A and B, of 27th lah Estate 
February and ist March. When these were written the lease ^^^^'^ 
had actually been partially drafted, and the parties had con- 
ferred over its terms in the Notary's Office. There was 
nothing then in it respecting acreage. But ist defendant, on 
his return home, wrote to the Notary, "There is one thing 
I want you to put in the lease deed, a clause with the 
acreage stated something like the foUov^ing: — 
Cocoanutsso many acres cultivated 
Tea do do 

Paddy do do," 

He did not quote therein any figures as having b^n 
given to him by the plain tifi*. And after conferring with plaintiff 
Mr. Staples, the Notary, in reply, wrote •*Dr, Stork has given 
me the approximate extent of the several plantations on the 
estate, as he is not in possession of a general plan shewing 
the exact extent of each plantation. The extents given, he 
assures me, are as nearly accurate as possible." There is no 
reference here to any previous express disclaimer of knowledge 
or responsibility or to the incident of which plaintifl* has 
deposed of ist defendant asking, and being given, these figures 
purely to assist him to strike the average of cost of manu- 
factinre. I do not feel I can rely on the recollection of 
either gentleman as being thoroughly accurate. But to my 
thinking the rights and liabilities of the parties have to be de- 
cided upon the application of the law bearing on the question 
to the agreement of lease itself and to the representation con- 
tained therein ; for the result of the correspondence A & B 
was that thereafter, at first defendant's instance and plaintifl s 
consent, the premises demised by that agreement were therein 
described to be "all that cocoanut and tea plantation comprising 
twelve alk>tments— now forming one property called and known 
as the ComiUah Estate, containing in extent 310 acres more or 
less, and consisting of about i8o acres under cocoanut cul- 
tivation, 8q acrep mider tea, about 20 acres of paddy land, abput 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4. THE tUFUBMS COURT RBP0RT8. [Vol. ii. 

STORK 15 teres reserve forest, and about 15 acres chena 
Orchard, land," of which the several 12 allotments with th«c 
[Thb"comil. ^^^"^ metes attd bouods, were then particularized. This 
LAa Estate i^ a representation by the plaintiff, who, as the |ist de« 
^^^'^ fendant has already been informed, has laasured the notary 
that it is as nearly as accurate as possible— and as to this there 
is no question of inaccuracy of . recollection. What is the effect 
of such a representation, even when the first defendant has 
been at pains himself to visit the estate and inform himself 
of all particulars thereof ? Plaintiff might have declined to state 
any particulars at all when he received letter A or to do more 
than lease the estate- as a corpus ; or he might have in reply 
and in the agreement given particulars to the best of his know- 
ledge, but have stipulated that the lessor was not to be res- 
potisibie for the quantity stated. But he has sufiisred the repre- 
seniation to appear on the face of .the agreement as. an absolute 
Statement by himself, and under the law as laid down in Voet 
xix, 2.26, with which must be read xviii. 1.7* is clear that he 
having represented the extent of this cultivation to be much 
greater than what was in fact delivered to the lessee to ehjoy, 
the rent must b^ dimitrished in proportion to the deficiency in 
quantity, which I hold to have been 30 acres out of So, as I do 
not consider it clearly proved that defendants are responsible 
for any abandonment. That the plaintift is not relieved from 
his responsibility for the statement by the 1st defendant's in- 
spection of the land will be seen from Smith vs. Land and 
House Property Corporation, 51 Law Times 718, when a sale 
rescinded by reason of a description having been given of the 
property which it would not bear, although the purchaser's 
ag^nt had before purchase inspected the property and reported 
unfavourably upoil it. As to the time firom which the defen- 
dants are entitled to have a {reduction of their rent made, I 
hold upon the evidence that they were put upon inquiry when 
at the end of their first year's working they surmised by the 
loss sustained that the acreage must be deficient, and they 
then made prompt ascertainment of the fact by survey and 
' claim for refund and reduction^ Though in the absence of all 
averment or proof ef fravd on the enroneoua representation, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



June 10, '93.] THE lUFRBMB COURT RBPORTtc 5 

tb^ cannot recover damages from plaintiff, they are yet entitled SToit 

to a refund or (in this case) a credit for all overpayments and OacHAan. 

against thfe contention iu the 4th] parafraph of the replication^ [THE^Mn. 

I hold they are entitled to be credited with a refund of excess lau £statb 

payments in the past, and were entitled to withhold paymenl '^ 

of rent so long as the payments already made covered what 

would be due lor rent oomputed 00 the reduced rental. The 

amount of reduction would be 3/8 of so much of the rent ae 

may be calculated to have been paid by them for the tea por* 

tioa of the estate. The gross yield of the other productive 

parts of the estate has been proved to be 30,000 coccnuts (^ 

Ra. fij^Rs, 810 and4 bushels paddy. Apportioning Rs. 600 aa^ 

the rental therefore for all save the tea land, would leave 

R9.i,|oo as the rental for the tea land, and 3/8 thereof would re* 

duce the rental by Rs. J33 a year, i e,f to one of Rs. i,475« The 

accounts between the parties would, therefore, stand thus : — 

Rent from 1st March, 1890 to s8th Feb. 189a. 

2 years at Rs. 1,475= Rs. 2,950 

Rent paid by defendants „ 3.000 

Overpaid by defendants Rs. 50 
At the institution of this action the defendants, therefore, 
had fiilly paid all the rent due by them, under this finding, 
and I cannot hold that they have forefeited their rights under 
the lease. 

I dismiss piaintifiTs action and enter judgment for defen- 
dants for Rs. 50 and costs of suit. 
The plaintiff appealed. 

Layardf A.'G. {Morgan mXh him) for plaintiff appellant, 
Domhor^ (Orenier vrith him) for defendant respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 
On May 16, 1893, the following judgments were delivered; — 
Lawrib, A. c. J. — I take the law to be that in the absence 
of fraud on the part of the lessor, where lands are leased 
and tljcre is no dispute as to the lessee having received the 
whole estate which he meant to take on lease, he is not 
entitled to abatement from the price on account of a mere 
error in setting forth the property by way of description, as 
QQRsistin^ o| so inany acres pr yielding such ai^ amount of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



6 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. U, 

Storic rental. On the other hand when the lessee does not get the 
Orchard, whole estate, he may either claim a deduction in respect of 
rTHK"coMiL- ^^^ part of the subject thus withheld whereever it is so dis- 
LAH Estate tinct that its value may be separated, or insist on the ground 
of error in essentialibua upon a restihitio in integrum. The 
latter remedy is available in all cases w^^ere the contract 
can be shewn to have proceeded in total misconception, and 
is available to the lessor equally with the lessee. I am of 
opinion that the lessees here got the whole estate which they 
meant to take on lease. They had seen it more than once, 
it lay within a ring fence ; they got all the land they expected 
to get. If there was an error in the description the doctrine 
of caveat emptor applies; but I think that there was not an 
error in essentialibvs, and the error in setting forth, by way 
of description, the manner in which the land was planted, the 
extent under one crop, the extent under another, the quantity 
of woodland, did not give them a right to abatement as to 
restitutio in integrum^ I would, therefore, give judgment for 
plantifF with costs. 

Withers, j. — By an indenture made between him and the 
defendants on the 9th day of March, 1890, the plantift demised 
and leased to the defendants what is described , in the plaint 
as **all that coconut and tea plantation called and known as 
Comillah Estate" for a term of 5 years from the ist of March, 
1890, at a yearly rent of Rs. 2,000 payable quarterly on the ist 
day of March, June, September and December in each and every 
year. The payment of rent as aforesaid was covenanted for by 
the defendants. There is a stipulation in the instrument of 
demise thar, if the rents thereby reserved shall be behind and un- 
paid for 30 days after any of the days or dates on which the same 
shall become due and payable, it shall be lawful for the lessor to 
cancel and determine the lease, and to re-enter and take posession 
of the ' premises, and to recover the arrears of rent. 

The plaintiff under this stipulation claims to recover the 
premises as well as arrears of rent which were behind and unpaid 
for thirty days on three successive quarters, i,e,, the" ist of Sep- 
tember, and then ist of December 1891, and the ist of March 
1892, the breach of Qopvenant to pay rent iq terms of the de- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



June lO, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. , ^ 

mise being plaintifTs cause of action. The answer to this claim Stork 
commences with an admission of the piaint]B*s legal right to have Orchard. 
what he is here suing for,*and is followed by what is intended as rTHE"coMiL- 
an equitable defence. The second paragraph of the answer lah Estate 
contains the case of the defence, the nature of which is not, to my 
mind, very clear. However I take it to be tiiis, — "You, the 
piaictiff represented that the estate you let to us for a term of 
years comprised within its boundaries a block of So acres in tea 
which induced us to offer to you the rent appearing in the ex- 
ecuted lease ; as a matter of fact, there was deficiency of more 
than 30 acres as regards the block of tea, and we are entitled to 
have the rent reduced proportionately, and when what we have 
overpaid you is set off against the reduced rents admittedly in 
arrear, it will be found that we owe you nothing on account of 
rent, and you are therefore not entitled to eject us." 

What is not quite clear to mcs is whether the defendants 
intend to allege in the second paragraph of their answer, that 
the calculation of rent was with the knowledge of the lessor 
principally and riiainly based on the extent of land under 
tea, and that the sum eventually offered, and accepted, was 
settled by and because of the representation that as much as 
80 acres of the land demised, was under tea. If this is 
what is meant by the defence, I will dispose of it at once 
by saying, as the learned District Judge finds, that the facts proved 
do not support the suggestion, to put it briefly, that the Comillah 
Estate was let and hired as a tea Estate and little or nothing 
more. If it is meant, as I should construe it, viz : "our offer 
of rent was as high as it was because of the representation 
that 80 acres were in tea, and we must have our rent reduced 
proportionately, as 30 acres and odd were not under tea " that 
is another matter. What was demised according to the instru- 
ment of demise was **all that coconut and tea plantation and 
estate comprising twelve allotments of land all lying contiguous 
to each other and now forming one property called and 
known as the Comillah Estate • . . containing in extent 
about 310 acres more or less and in the schedule hereto more 
particularly described,*' a schedule to which in compliance 
with the request of the defendants during the negotiations 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



i . THE SUPREl^B COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii 

Stork for the lease, the following particulars weire added, **and 
Okchard. consisting of about 180 acres under coconut cultivation, akotU 
I The^Comil- *^ ^^cres under te&, about do acres of paddy land, about 15 
i.AH Estate acres of reserved forest, and about 15 acres of chena land." 
It is admitted that the plaintiff's mi^r^r^seiatation as to 
the acreage under tea was quite innocent, sp that no question 
of deceit is here raised, It was contended, but I .think un- 
successfully, that as this was a lease qf premises ckI carpw, 
fraud must be alleged and proved s^ainst the lessor before 
tlie price oould be reduced on aecount of a diminished extent 
short of enormfs le^sia and the authority was cited of Voet 
Lib. xriii. Tit I S. 7. On the contrary, this very chapter of 
Voet is an authority for the statemfint that this contract of 
lease waa at least as much md qiiantUaiem as ad 0orptM and 
the discrepaiicy being a ^*na^hW one the price should be 
proportionately reduced — se« the same chapter. Purchase and 
sales, are there being discuesedi but letting and hiring was 
in this respect gpverned on the same principles. See the 
authority cited to us in Voet xix. 11. a6. <*If the lessor has 
m^de out the property to be much larger than it is actually 
found to be, the rent must also be reduced in proportion to 
the smaller e.xtent of ground." The vendee in the one case 
had his relict ^^der the ^tio empU and the lessee under the 
actio looatU I conceive then that in the drcumstances, the 
defendajits were entitled to a diminution of rent in vitvi of 
the deficiency of the acreage under tea; but the question 
remains, to what relief, if any, does this defence set up by 
the defendants entitle them ? It appears to me that the equi- 
table defence set up grows out of a right of counterclaim 
and exists only because pt the right in the defendants to 
claim a diminution of the rent past, present, and future, a 
reform of the instrument of demise as to the quantity of 
land under tea, and as to the amount of rent payable there- 
under in consequence of the diminution they prove themselves 
entitled to. They must^ in my opinion, successfully establish 
this affirmative demand, to justify the judgment herein, dis- 
missing the plaintiff's claim with costs. On the lease as it 
Stands unreformedi they have no defenoe to the claim for ra- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



June 17, *93.] thb suprei^e CouRt reports. ^ 

entry, or the payment of arrears of rent. .They dp not allege Stork 

their readiness to hold to the lease, with a rent diminished Orchard. 

by the amount found in their favor. It was, be it remembered, r j„j coMn,- 

open to the defendants, on. discovery of the difference of tA« Estate 

extent of land under. tea, to have brought an eicHo locati to 

have the lease reformed, the rent diminished proportionally^ 

and a declaration that the excess overpaid should go in 

reduction of the rents accrued due. They did' not do so; they 

held to the land, and refused to pay the arrears of rent; 

they tendered nothing in the way of rent ; th;y have brought 

nothing into Court in satisfaction of rent accrued due; and 

no doubt they justify this to themselves on the ground that, 

so far from their having anything to pay, they are entitled^ 

at the <bite of action brought to recover something fronv the 

plaintiff. To my mind, the only defence which could extip.^ 

goish plaintiff's right of action as herein instituted would be 

a cMOiter claim of the natore of the claim I have just indi* 

cHtod. I consider the defence a mutilated one, so to speaks 

and of iu> «vaii against plaintiff's legal rights. And for this 

reason, I wauM set aside the Judgment, and give plaintiff 

ju(%inent as prayed for with costs. 

My inclination would have heen to follow the law relating 
to the actio red?iilniaria et qHunU minoris for the rescision 
of contracts of sale or a diminntionof ' the price on account 
of defects (vitia) in the subject matter which did not avail 
the buyer who had every opportunity,, as these defendants 
bad befc^e lease executed, of discovering the defects before 
buying the article, if 1 cooki have found an authority for 
doing so, but according to Voet XXI I-II neither remedy ^ 
applied to the contract of letting and hiring. 1 cannot help . 
expressing an opinion that the learned Judge, in the Court 
below» has found his estimate of the diminished rent on an 
erroneous basis. We are not informed what the 30 odd acres 
consisted of— whether pf soil under jungle, or paddy or chena, 
or bare soil, but I take it, the difference would have to be 
found in the letting value of the estate with the soil of 30 
odd acres under jimgle or pad^y .or chena or bare soil, as 
the case may be, and 30 odd acres under tea* 

B a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



id tHE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. Voh ii,j 

Before Latvru, a. c. j. and Withers, j. 

June 2 and 6, i893, 

DAVIDSON v SILVA. 

[No. 335, D. C, Kegalla.] 

SivMon^AppealabU Ofxler — Decree signed by Judge after he 
has become ^'functus officio.'' 

An order ending thus— **It is ordered that the libel be rejected as it ha» 
not been amended as directed by the Court. The plaintiff will pay the d*fen- 
dftht Ms costs of the action "•^19 an order complete in itvtlf and not requiring 
to be followed by a formal decree, and is a 6nal oider against which an appeal 
lie*.' 

A periOD who hat ceaied to held office at District Judge has no power to 
s^ the formal decree consequent on a judgment delivered by him when in 
office. 

As • t general rule the^ Supreme Court will not. exi^ept ia very exce|»tionAk 
casetf reriew an order from which an appeal might have been, but has not been, 
taken. 

Plaintiff, all Asshtairt Government Agent, Hot being aWtf 
to ajgreir with* defendant as to the atnotint of compensation tcf 
be* allowed for cettaiif land of defetidant acquired by Govern* 
m^tlt uttdet tfce proyisions of «*The Lard Acquisition Orditiancr 
iBjSi'' filed in Court a libel of reference in tetms of section 
II of the Ordinance, and notices were thereupon ibMied, in' 
terms of section 14, first, on defendant, requiring him to state 
to the Court the amount which he claims as compensation* 
for his interest ill the land, and secondly, on both plaintiff and* 
defendant, requiring tlwnn to - appoint* assessors to aid the 
Jtidgc jn det^mining the amount of compensation. Defendant- 
appeared in Court and ncminated an assessor, but before one 
was nominated by plaintiff, one Natchiappa Clietty claiming 
to be a mortgagee of the land and to have appeared before 
the A5rslstant Government Agent at his inquiry under 
sectioii 8 of the Ordinarice for ascertainment of the value of' 
the land, moved to be added as a party to the case. Plain- 
tifTs proctor had no objection to this motion, and himself moved 
to amend the plaint in certain respects, and the District Judge 
made order that the plaint be returned to plaintiff for amendment 
as set out in the order, and it was accordingly returned. 
A'fi amended plaint was thereafter tendered, but the 
District Judge rejected it by an order conchiding thus— •^'It 19 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Jime i7f *g3*] '^^ suprsmb court rbports* it 

ordered that the libel be rejected ass it has not been amended as Davidson 
directed by the Court. The plaintiff will pay the defendant sn.vii. 
bis costs of the action.*' Before a formal decree was drawn 
-upjn ttrms of this cnrderf the Pistrict Judge, by reason of transfer 
to another statian, cea^ to hold office as such, and the formal 
decree bearing the 6»me date as fhe above order was in 
fact signed after the District Judge became functus officio 
and after the lapse of the appealable time from the date of 
such order. 

On the motion of Layardf A* O. for revision, the case 
was sent for by the Supreme Court, and with notice to defend* 
ant and Natchiappa the question of reviewing the proceedings was, 
on June 2, discussed* 

Layard.A.G. for plain tifl. 

Pereira for defendant and Natchiappa Chetty. 

.Cur. adv. vult. 

On June 6, the following judgment of the Court was 
delivered by 

Lawrie, A. c. J.— On carefully considering the proceedings 
in this Land Acquisition Case we have not ascertained what • it 
was that prevented the Assistant Government Agent from appeal- 
ing. against the order signed by Mr. Dunlop, the District Jud|;e 
of Kegalla, on the 30th of March. 

The order was complete in itself: it ended, ''It is ordec/ed 
that the libel be rejected as it has not been amended as directed 
by the Court. The plaintiff will pay the defendant his costs of 
the action." 

Under the mistaken notion that the order was imperfect, 
and that it required to be followed by a formal dfcree, one was 
prepared and was sent to Mr. Dunlop, and was signed by him 
in Colombo after he had ceased to be District Judge of Kegalle. 

If a formal deciee was necessary, Mr. Dunlop certainly 
could not sign it after he had ceased to hold the oiBce of District 
Judge. 

The decree to be found on the last page of the record must 
be disregarded as prononsctipto. 

But the signature of the 30th March remain?. We have 
,t3een asked to set it Jvside in revision^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



12 THE SUPREME COUET REPORTS.' [Vol. H. 

Davidson 1 cannot say that It seems other than a good and reasonable 

Sii«VA. order, but assuming that it is not right, it certainly is a final 

order against which an appeal lay, and we abide by the rule 

that except in very exceptional cases we shall not reviM where 

an appeal might have been, but has not been, taken. 

We are of opinion that we must refuse to interfere. 



Before Lawrie and With§r8^ j. j. 

Feburary lo and 14, 1893. 

WEERESEKERE i;. SEELAWANKA. 

[No, 230, D. C, Matara.] 

Crowii Crant—PremmptioYiof Title— Bebutiable— Sect. 6 
of Ordinance 12 of 1840: 

The statutory presumption created by section 6 of Ordinance 12 of 1S40 
that all '^Cfaenas ana other lands Which can only be cultivated, after intervals 
of several years, shall be deemed to be forest or laaste lands'* and theiefore 
the property of the Crown, is a rebuttable presumption (Lewis v. Kiriappu 5 
S. €. C. p. 194 followed.) 

Per Withers, j. — The presumption of title thus created attaches to the 
land after it has passed from the Crown to a private subject. 

The plaintiff in this action sought to eject the defendant 
the incumbent of a Vihara, from a certain chena called 
Wandurudenia on the strength of a Crown grant dat^d 
February 4, 1891, claiming for himself the benefit of the 
presumption created by Ordinance 12 of 1840 in favour of the 
Crown in respect of chenas or forest lands. The defendant at the 
hearing of the case produced two conveyances of 1829 and 
183a in favour of the Pansala and also proved cultivation by 
him of the land with cocoannts for 8 or 9 years previous to 
the institution of the action. 

The learned District Judge held that the presumption in 
favour of the Crown had not been sufficiently rebutted and gave 
judgment for the plaintift. 

The defendant appealed, 

Domhorst for defendant-appellant. 

The presumption on which the District Judge has founded his 
'jtidgmefnt has been sufficiently met. The presumption in favour 
of the CrQwn should »ot be extended to private parties/ Tfie 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



June 17, *93.] the suPRfiieK cot^itT reports. 13 

Ordinance is meant to apply only to particular casM. The land Wbere- 
is not forest land. It has been cultivated for the last 8 or 9 '^'^'^^ 
years with cocoanuts. Seilawamka 

Qrenier lot plaintifi-respondent. 

The presumption in £airour of the Crown has not been 
met and a grant by .the Crown is prima facie evidence of 
title in the Crown. (8 S.C. C. p. 58 5 S. C. C p. 194.) 

Damhorst in reply. 

. , Cur. adv. vult. 

On February 14, the following judgments were delivered : — 

Lawrib» j. — The presumption in favour of the Crown is 
(as has been often held by this Court) a rebuttable presump- 
tion, and here it seems to me the presiunption has been 
rebutted. 

J^trv/— The defendants hold a title to the land, a title not 
of recent date, not concocted to defeat the right of the Crown, 
but a title obtained between 60 and 70 years ago. 

I hold it proved that the land conveyed by the transfers! 
produced by the defendants is the same land as that now 
claimed by the plaintiff. 

Second — The defendants are now in possession, and so 
b^ as appears they and their predecessors in the incumbency 
of the Vihara have been in continuous possesion for the last 
sixty years. There is no trace of any one else possessing. 

Thirdly — Their possession might not avail against the 
Crown if it had been merely a possession ' by authority. 

The Ordinance seems to disregard quiet possesion as ■ a 
proof of title, presuming that to Chena even at the most regular 
intervals is not a possession from which ownership must foe 
presumed. 

Accepting that view still there have been acts of possession 
of a different kind, possession by planting cocoanut trees. 

It is true that these trees are planted only on the 
Eastern side next to the Pansala, but planting of a part 
•f the land is an overt act of possession of the whole. 

This is a case in which I think the presumption in 
favour of the Crown has been amply met i^ncl upset by the 
evidcQCQ ^ddw;^ by thf dcfenda&t. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



14 TH£ SUPRBMB COURT RBfORTS. [Vol. ii. 

Wbbre- I wouM dismiss the aetion« 

SIKEKE 

.{;. Withers, i.-~rUiuler oo>ttr of the Crown ^ant the plain. 

Smlawanra ^.g. ^j^jj^g ^ parcel of land called Waodunideoiaheoa from 
which he seeks to eject the dfiloadaitts. 

Tiie defendAQt .xlaims jttnder the Kahi^araa Wandumdeoia 
Paosal to whkh th^y say the land plaintiff seeks to eject 
them feom belongs* 

The Pansala is in possession of a la^il .of that name, 
was so at the date of the grant, and .has had a part of it in 
cocoanut cultivation 'for the last '8 or 9 years. 

This being so the plaintiff had to prove two things, viz, 
that the land in defendant^-s possession on the Pansala's behalf 
is within his grant ^nd that his title to the land is -superior 
to that of the Pansala's. 

I am far from satisfied that he has established the fact 
oi the identity of the land in the defendants* possession with 
that in his grant. But assuming it to be so, has he proved a 
superior title. He has recovered judgment on the ground that 
he land being once wholly and still partially chena land is 
to be deemed forest or waste land and as such property of 
the Crown. 

.1 think this Court can hardly go back on the proposition 
to be (bund implied, if not expressed in its decisions— but 
contested by Mr. Dornhorst with much plausibility, that the 
presumption attaches so to speak to the land after it has 
passed from the Crown to a private subject. 

In this case however the statutable presumption of the 
Ordinance la of 1840 is. surely and clearly rebutted by the 
partial cultivation of the land for the last 8 or 9 yeaxs with 
cocoanuts, the production of conveyances of ' 1839 . and 1832 
the Pansala of the land herein claimed fnDm it, the culti- 
vation subsequent to those conveyances at int-ervals fit least 
up to 1857 with grain and payment of title to Government 
as by private individuals, ^nd the .onus was shifted bapk 
upon the plaintiff, to satisfy the Court that apart f(om statu- 
table presumption the laad he seeks to take irem the Pansala 
did indeed and in fact beloog to tlie Gtowiu - 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



June 17, ^93.] THE SUt^fcEME COURf REPORfs. 1^. 

This omis he has not discharged and in my opinion the Weekk- 

jtidgment of the Court' below sheuld' be set aside and the y, 

plaintiflPs action dismissed with costs. • Seelawanka 



Before Laivrie' and Withers^ j. j. 

February 14 and 2t, 1893. 

THE ATTORN EY-GENERAL v. APPUHAMY and another 

[No. 15J, D. C. Kegalla.] 

Ptmdinffit^A7netidm&nt'^Ni>Hce-^^ostp^rmnent'-Co$t^^ 
Section 98 Civil Prooedure Cod^ 

On the day of trial the Court, in the presence of the ptrtles, allowed 
tbe*pfaifiitt to bt amended by the addition of ceruin words. The amendment 
rtot being a material one, in that it did not alter the issues in the case. 

J7r'rf that the defendant was riot entitled to a postponement of the case-' 

Per Withers^ j. — An order alhrwing an amendment should direct the detiref y 
«f tkt alMod^d pleadin^^ within a given time to the opposite party. 

On the day of hearing of an action brought by the Attorney- 
General on behalf of the Crown the defendant*s counsel drew the 
attention of the Judge of the Court below to an addition to the plaint 
inserted at the end of the first paragraph in these i^ords *'That the 
said Welikada Mukalana is a forest land '* and submitted that 
its presence was unauthorized as it had not been initialled by 
the Judge as required by section 95 of the Civil Code. The Court 
then initialled the additional matter. 

The counsel for the defence still contesting the legality of 
the amendment applied for an adjournment and the costs of the 
day . in order to plead over to the new matter if so advised. 

The learned Judge refused the, application and the defendant 
appealed. 

DomherRt l<x defendaot-appellaDt. 

Tb^ motion to amend wa* not made in Court and the 
amendment is oonsequently. irregular. The District Judge 
having allowed the amendment, ought to have granted appli^ 
cation of the defendant for a postponement and costs. 

BamcuitUhan^ S.-G. for the Crown* 

The only objection in tfae court below was that the amend- 
ment had not been initiaUed, The Judge saj-s that the amend. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



l6 THE. SUPREME CQtJRt RjaMRtS* / ' [Vol. H. 

The nicnt was not object^ to. Tbe defect arising from tbe want 
GENERAL of initials of the District Ju<^e was subsequently cured by the 

Cur. adv; vult. 

On February 21, the following judgments were delivered:— 

Lawrue, j.T^-On the day fixed for the trial Of this case the 
counsel for the defendant moved that the hearing be postponed. 
The cause shown by him was in the opinion of the District Judge 
infufficient cau^e and the motion was disallowed^ 

1 am of opinion that the District Judge was right. The 
reason given by the defendant'^ counsel for a postponement was 
not only insufficient but was triv^L 

Withers, J. — According to the petition of appeal to this 
Court the appeal was taken from an order of, the District 
Judge dated the 29th of July, 1892, refusing a postponement 
applied for at the hearing of the action. 

There is no record of ' a formal apfdication on defendant's 
behalf for an adjournment for^any particular reason or of a 
formal order therein. 

From what is recorded and from what counsel told us at 
the discussion of the appeal, I understand that defendaot's 
counsel in the Court below drew the learned Judge's attention 
to an addition to the plaint intioduced at the end of the first para- 
graph in these "words **<That the said Welikada Mukalana is a fbrest 
land,*' and submitted that its presence was unauthorized fbrthis 
reason If no other— that it had not been' initialled by the learned 
Judge as required by the 93rd section of the* Civil Prpcedure 
Code. . ' / * * ' 

After appatrently a discussion is to the propriety of this 
so called amendment, the learned Judge proceeded to cure the 
defect by^ putting Ms initials and the date of the day" (^-7-92) 
a(gainst this additional tmtter and as the parties were bekx^ 
Kim and * he had ihittaHed the amendment in their presence he 
held it to be in order, ' « 

Counsel still protesting against the Ifgatity of the so called 
amendment applied for an adjournment and the costs of the 
day in order to plead Over to the new matter if so advised. 

The learned Judge refused ttiis application and hence this 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



June 24, '93.J THE SUfkRtfM^ COURT ItfiMRfS. If 

appeal. The 

On the 30th of May, 1892, a day was fixed for the hearing: ^gInbiul 
of the action, viz., the aoth of July, i8o2. v- 

On the 5th of July, a motion in writing was put 10 for the 

Crown and application made for notice on the defendants and 
their Proctors to the effect that the Court would he moved 
on the nth July, 1^92, to amend the plaint by introducing 
in it at the end of the first paragraph the words previously 
recited. 

On the nth of July, the learned Judge allowed the mo- 
tioh having satisfied himself that the other side bad be^n 
suflBcientty secured with notice of the motion, who made the 
amendment by introducing the added matter and When it was 
made does not appear. 

There it was 00 the day of hearing but the matter was 
not iKrell added because of the absence of the Judga*8 sanction 
as certified by his initials, and it only became an amendment, 
properly speaking after the Judge had initialled it. 

I should have thought it scarcely open to question, that 
a Judge, in making an order on a motion of the' kind, whether 
opposed or not, allowing an amendtnent, would naturally direct the 
delivery of the amended pleading within a given time from the 
date of the order with directions limiting the time for the other 
party to meet it, if so advised, and make some order as to 
costs, for an amendment cannot be made at the expense of 
the opposite party who is entitled to be indemnified for all 
additional expense involved in such amendment. Why the amend- 
ment was ever appHed for, or why it was allowed, I am un- 
able to imagine. 

But after all is said and done the simple question for us to 
decide is whether the learned Judge exercised or not a proper 
discretion in refusing a postponement of the trial because of 
the amendment so made on the day of hearing. 

If the amendment had been a material one his order 
could not be justified for a moment. 

It was ho good reason to refuse a postponement because thf 
deiendants had had notice of the motion for leave to amend 
the ^int in the manner I m«ntion^«. ... . . 

a 3 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



tHE SUPREME COURT REPORtS, 



[Vol. ii. 



The 

ATTORNEY-t 

General 

V' 
APPUHAMT. 



They had no reason to suppose that the amendment had 
been made. 

But can the defendants be seriously said to have been pre- 
judiced by the order complained of ? The parties were or should 
have been prepared to go to trial on the 39th of July. 

Did this addition really change the aspect of the case 
or alter the patent issues in the action ? It was a statement 
that might have been taken out of a dictionary — it was partly 
explanatory^ partly argumentative, but quite immaterial seeing 
what the issues were. 

The course taken by the defendants' advisers was in the 
nature of a resort against the want of principle in the learned 
Judge's method of sanctioning amendments. It was a course 
taken at their own wish. 

I cannot say, I think, the judge was wrong in refusing a 
postponemetit, and in my opinion the order should be afRrmed, 
but ,1 would give no costs in appeal. 



Before Latvrie Xnd Witliers^ j. j. 

February 10 and 14, 1893. 

SILVA and another v. PODISINHO and another. 

[No. 39,788, D. C. Kalutara.] 

Judgment— 'Revival qf—Adjusiment'-Certificate under S^t. 349 
Civil Proceduf^ Code. 

Under section 349 of the Civil Procedure Code ** if any money payable 
under a decree is paid out of Court, or the decree is otherwise adjusted in 
whole or in part to the satisfaction of the decree-holder, he shall certify such 
payment or adjustment to the Court whose duty it is to execute the decree. 
The judgment-debtor may also by petition inform the Court of such payment 
or adjustment, and apply to the Court to issue a notice to the decree-holder 
to show cause, on a day to be fixed by the Court, why such payment or 
adjustment should not be recorded as certified. * 

ffeldf that n:;twithstanding the revival of a judgment, the Court may record 
as certified on the petition of the judgment-debtor any adjustment or payment 
made before such revival. 

The action was to recover a debt due on a mortgage 
bond, and judgment was entered on December 9, 1888, which 
the plaintiff allowed to lie dormant until its revival on June 
19, 1890. On November 3, 1892, the present plaintifls, who 
bad been substituted in place of the original plaintiff deceased, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



June 24, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. I9 

applied for and obtained leave to execute the revived judg- Silva 
ment, and while this order was out, the first defendant applied Podisiiicho. 
by way of summary procedure for an order recording as """" 
certified certain payments. 

The District Judge (De Livera) rejected this application 
on the ground that he could not go* behind the revived judg- 
ment of June 19, 1890. 

The first defendant appealed. 

Seneviratne for appellant. 

Revival of judgment does not imply an acknowledgment 
of the whole debt. The application for reviving judgment 
makes no mention of the payments made by appellant. The 
appellant is still entitled to a certificate imder § 349 of the 
Civil Procedure Code. 

Domh(h*8t for respondent. 

The operative judgment is the revived judgment. The 
defendant had notice of plaintiffs' application to revive judg- 
ment but he did not appear then and ask for a certificate; 
and he cannot now go behind the revived judgment in which 
he has actually acquiesced. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On February 14, 1893, the following judgment agreed to 
by Lawrie, j., was delivered : — 

Withers, j.— A very simple action to recover a money 
debt secured by a mortgage has swollen into outrageous pro- 
portions and it is almost impossible to pick one's way through 
the growth of petitions, affidavitS| orders, precepts, processes 
and other kinds of documentary matter with which it is 
encrusted. 

It is one thing to listen to discussions on orders com- 
plained of, and another thing to discover the orders and 
construct a consecutive history of the proceedings which . lead 
up to those (orders. 

On the 31st August, 1888, the rule issued to the defendants 
to show cause why a money and mortgage decree should not 
be entered up in default of appearance to simimpns served, was 
made absolute and on the loth day of December, 1888, a decree 
was formulated that plaintiff do recover from the defend^^ the 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ao THE SUPUBMS OQURT MPORTS. [VoU U. 

Sn.VA sum of ^s, 231 w^th interest thereoa at 25 par cent, per annum 

P<>eiJiiQiiq.: from tls^.a^nd September, 1885, till payment in full and costar 

' ^nd that the premises described in the plains as security 

therefor be declared specially bound an4 executable for the 

Mi4 ju^ni^nt debt, 

Ng e9^i(|ion appaara to have h^n taken out of that 
decree and on the nth February, 1890, the plaintiff moved lor a 
rule on the defendants to show cause v/\\y the judgment should 
not be revived and writ issued. 

Thai mile was not expressly motde absolute, but on 19th 
June, 1890, it was ordered that the judgment entered on the xoth 
D^eember, 18^, be revived and writ do ia^ue against the 

Plaintiffs* costs in rfie action were taxed at Rs, 78-50 
and on the 28th June, 1890, plaintilBf applied tor wxhs against 
person and prqperty of the defendants. What the writ went 
out for dees act appear and as far as I can make out no 
writs with returns to thcoi have travelled back to this fecord. 

A veturo to writ issued against property on the 4th of 
July, by the Deputy Fiscal of Kalutara is the sut^ect of 4 
minute of the otli July, 1890, which does not make much sense 
of the return. 

Writs were then issued on the 14th of July, 1890, for 
^rvice in the District of Galte, to which the return, according 
to a minute of 20th January, 1891, was that the d^ndants 
had neither paid the money nor surrendered property which 
being situate at Kalutara was not easily to be surrendered at 
Galle. 

On the 6th of February, 1891, writs were reissued 
somewhere or another, and the quaint return made to them on 
the* nth March, 1891, by the Deputy Fiscal was that the plain- 
tiffs was dead. 

On the 2ist of August, 189X, the substituted plaintilfe 
apptied by way of summary procedure to have their names 
entered d record in the room of the orginal plaintiff deceased, 
and for leave to proceed in the action and reissue the 
wfit and order was allowed to go, though it should have beea 
««tofin#<J- to that part of the application wdeft § 395 of t^e 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



June a4, *93.] the aupRBtfE covkt RiroitTs. zi 

Civil Procedurft Cbde (aee tkwt reported in IL c, l., r. 77) which Stlva 
relates to the entry of names in the room of the deceased Podcimoiio. 
idaialiff. 

On the Stfi of Sepleinber» 1891, one of the defendants 
appeared to the notice of the order nt»i» evidently with the 
intention of resisting that part of the application on behalf 
of the parties to be added which related to reissue of writ 
in execution of judgment, for the minute on his appearance 
is *' the ist respondent '* ( to the petition on summary proce- 
dure) says he paid Ra. 440** i.e. on account of judgment 
recovered and has got receipt'* signed by the judge *'I 
give defendant time to prove payment" signed by the judge. 
Of the validity of this order, the judge in the following month 
expressed a doubt in as much as the petitioners* names had 
not been entarred of record, but he left the order standing* 

On 4th October, 1891, the respondents to the petition 
under the said section 395 were advised unfortunately to resist the 
appbcatiflD of the petitioner to have their names altered in the 
record in plaoe of the deceased plaintiff, and though they 
gained a temporary success in the Court below they were 
Mltimately defeated in this Court and the order was made 
absolute, though I think it was only intended to make it ab 
sohKe as to the entry of the petitioners' nanoes on the record. 

Indeed it was competent to the petitioners as soon as their 
names were entered on the record to proceed with the action, 
ii unconchided. Nor could they do so till their names were 
duly entered. 

The formalities required by the judgment in appeal were 
executed and the order nisi of the 30th October, 1891, was 
declared absolute in conformity iiith the decree of this Court, 
and the terms of it are to be found on page 17. 

The successful appellant's costs below and im appeal were 
thereafter taxed at an aggregate of Rs. 141-75 and the substi- 
tuted plaintiffs ofk the 16th July, 1892, applied to have the amount 
added to the writ which on the 30th July, was accordingly 
issued. 1 suppose the writ went out for the amount of the 
judgmeiit with the new and old ^xM>ts on it, but I sannot 
6ik1 either writ How tbif wPt cai^e to bo is^u^ <m ^ yw» 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



dH THB SUPRtME COURT RBP0RT6, [Vol. ii| 

SrLVA motioQ, ivhen more than a year had elapsed since the last return 
PoDisiNGHo, to the writ on the nth March, 1891, I do not quite under* 
""^ stand. It was returned un-executed on the ist September, 189a, 
and allowed to re-issue on the 2nd September, 1892. 

Thereafter on the nth October, 189a, an application was 
made by way of summary procedure on behalf of the ist 
defendant to have the writ dated the 4th July, 1896, (sic) recalled 
and execution stayed, the affidavit in support of which is to 
be found at page 71, and in the affidavit appears the reason 
for the application, viz., that the writ had been irregularly 
issued without notice, more than a year having elapsed 
between the date of the decree and the last application for its 
execution. 

This was not a true ground but was apparently accepted. as 
such for on the 19th October, 1892, plaintiffs' proctor moved 
to have the writ recalled as having been irregularly issued, 
and the writ was returned on the a4th October, 1892. 

Then on the 3rd November, 1892, the Plaintiffs* Proctor moved 
by way of summary procedure for leave to execute the judgment, 
which was allowed, and while this order iivas out the ist defen- 
dant appplied by way of summary procedure for an order 
rcicording as certified certain payments or adjustments of items 
of money paid on account of judgment debt and costs taxed 
in this action. 

Order nisi was made on this application and the matters 
of the contestants petitions were eventually heard and 
determined with the effect that execution should be allowed 
for a balance sum excluding some of the items which 
had been admittedly parid, including the principal sum of Rs, 300 
which the learned judge refused to admit proof of on the 
ground that the judgment debtor could not go behind the 
revived judgment ot the 19th June, 1890, see page 27. It is 
from this order that the judgment debtor appeals* 

Mr. Dornhorst contended that the revived judgment was 
the operative judgment and because it was the judgment which 
is deemed to be satisfied after 10 years have elapsed from the 
date on which it was pronounced, the judgment debtor could 
not go behind it and attempt to show that the original judg- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



jnne 24, *93.] the suPRfiME court REI>ORts. ij 

ment of December, 1888, had been satisfied in part as that Sflva 
would be tantamount to allowing the debtor to plead, if the Podisingho. 
occasion had arisen, that the old and not the revived judgment """ 
had been satisfied, which would be an abuse of privilege. I am 
afraid I am not fully alive to the force of this contention not- 
withstanding the truth of the observation that the new judg- 
ment starts the period of limitation; but it seems to me 
it might work serious injustice, if a plaintiff, after letting a 
judgment lie dormant, could, by the mere step of reviving it, 
shut out all transactions in the nature of payments which 
take place in the interval. It is, of course, a matter for com- 
ment if a judgment-debtor does not come forward as soon as 
possible after the delivery of a writ in execution of judgment 
and ask for an order limiting the execution to a sum less 
than that which it carries on the face of it on account of 
payments made, error of computation, or some good reason. 

At the same time it is conceivable that the means of proof 
are not ready to hand at the date of delivery. On considera- 
tion I think the order appealed from should be set aside 
and the case remitted to the lower court for a day to be fixed 
f(x determining whether a payment of Rs. 300 in part satisfaction 
of the judgment should be recorded as certified. It is worthy 
of notice that on the day the appellant*s application was dis- 
cussed the plaintifis' proctor admitted all the payments men- 
tioned in the judgment debtors' affidavit except that of the 
said item of Rs. 300. The payments admitted were made 
according to the affidavit on three occasions including an item 
of Rs. 20 on the 25th day of March, 1889, ^i^d aggregating 
a sum of Rs. 140^ and as far as I can discover credit was 
never given for these payments till the application of the 26th 
October, 1892. In the application of the 2nd September, 
1892, the remarks made in the column, headed *' adjustment 
made if any" was no. 

It is true that in the application of the 26th October, 
1892, credit is not given for the item referred to in appellants* 
affidavit of Rs. 20. On the 23rd March, 1892, but the record 
(p. 27 a) states that plaintiffs* proctor admitted all the pay. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



14- thE SUPREikTE COURt kEl»ORtS. ' [Vol. U. 

81LVA ments mentioned in the aflSdavit except that of the item of 
PoDisiNGHo. Rs. 300 on the 23rd March, 1889. 

The appellant is entitled to his costs of appeal. 



Before Burmide^ c. j. Withers and Lawrie, j. j. 

January 24 and February 10, 1893. 

WEERARATNA v. SILVA. 

[No, 676, D. C, Galle,] 

Ejecimeni— Mortgage-Sale by mortgagor^SubHqtAent 9aU 
under mortgage decree. 

A mortgaged a land to W and subsequently sold it to S for the purpose 
of paying oH some mortgages that had existed before that of W. W subsequently 
sold It under a mortgage decree, and having bought it^ himself obtained 4 
Fiscal's conveyance. 

IJeld^ that W had no right to eject S as at the time of Ws purchase A 
had no, right, title or interest lor the Fiscal to seize or convey. 

This was an action in ejectment. The original owner of 
the land in dispute, one Alwis, mortgaged it on Octbber 18, 
1887, to plaintiff, which mortgage was duly registered. On 
this mortgage the plaintiff obtained the usual mortgage decree* 
sold the land under it and purchased it himself and obtained 
a Fiscal s conveyance therefor on November 11, 1890, which 
he registered on December 17, of the same year. 

Previous to the mortgage under which plaintiff claimed 
Alwis had mortgaged the same land by duly registered mort- 
gages to other persons, and on February 2, 1888, he 
transferred it to the defendant by duly executed conveyances 
dated February 24, 1888, and registered on March 19, 
of the same year arid paid off the mortgages that had 
Existed before that of the plaintiff, and the defendant entered 
into possession. Tlie plaintiff on the strength of the FiscaJ's 
conveyance sought to eject the defendant. 

The District Judge dismissed the plaintiff's action. 

The plaintifif appealed. 

Dornliornt for plaintiff-appellant. — Alwis' conveyance to 
defendant is subject to all prior encumbrances. He could not 
defeat his mortgagee's rights by transferring the property by 
private conveyance* It 4loe$ not make any difference that prior 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 1, '93.] THB SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



as 



mortgages have been paid off. 

Crenier for defendant-respondent. — The action is aho- 
gether misconceived. The defendant is not bound by the mortgage 
decree, he not having been a party to it. The proper course 
would have been to call upon the defendant to pay off the 
mortgage (Dicklande Case). My client stands in the shoes of 
he prior mortgagee, wliose debts have been paid off by the 
sale. 

Domhorst In reply. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On February 10, 1893, the following judgments were deli- 
vered: — 

BuRNSiDE, c. J. — No question of priority under the Regis- 
tration Ordinance arises in this case. That being so, it is 
clear to me that the plaintiff has no right to maintain this 
action, and the judgment of the District Judge should be 
affirmed with costs. 

The action is in ejectment. The defendant is in the Ac- 
tual possession, and the plaintiff has never had possession. The 
admitted facts are shortly these :— 

The original owner, one Alwis, mortgaged the land on 
October 18, 1887, and on the 21st the mortgage was registered. 
On this mortgage the plaintiff obtained the usual mortgage 
decree, sold the land under it and purchased it himself and 
obtained a Fiscal's conveyance therefor on November 11, 
1690, which he registered on Decen^ber- 17, of the same years • 

On this paper title the plaintiff rests his right of ^K:tioa 
to eject the defendant. 

Previous to the mortgage under which plaintiff claims, 
Alwis had mortgaged the same land by duly registered 
mortgages to other persons, and on February 2, 1888, he 
transferred it to the defendant by duly executed conveyances, 
dated February 24, 1888, and registered on March 19, 
of the same year, having paid off the mortgages that had 
existed before that of plaintiff, and the defendant entered into 
possesion and has remained in possession. 

This is the defendant's title. The District Judge has given 
judgment for the def«nd»nt, and the plaintiff appeals* 



Weera- 

kATNA 

8ILVA. 



» 4 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



26 



THB SUPREME COURT REPORTS, 



[Vol. 11. 



Weera* 

KATNA 

V' 
SlLVA. 



The judgment is undoubtedly right. The legal estate in the 
property is in the defendant. It was quite competent for 
Alwis to sell the property to the defendant who thereupon 
took title to it, and when the plaintiff purchased subsequent- 
ly Alwis had no right, title or interest for the Fiscal to 
seize or convey. 

It is not for us to point out any difference of position 
which the plaintiff might have occupied had the defendant 
been made a party to the mortgage suit against Alwis, or 
if there were a suit by plaintift to render his purchase under 
the mortgage decree available as against the land in. the 
plaintiff's possession. The action is in ejectment iq which 
the plaintiff must recover by strength of his title, and he has 
really no title against defendant. 

Lawrib, j. — I agree. 

Withers, j. — I confess I do not see what pretence of 
right the plaintiff has to eject the defendant. The action 
seems to me to be totally misconceived. Ihe property had 
already been sold by the owner to the defendant, when the 
plaintiff purchased it at a judicial sale. .» 

The judgment-debtor's estate had gone out of him, and 
there was nothing of his for the Fiscal to selU Plaintiffs title 
is surely a worthless piece of paper. 

Plaintiff may or may not have a claim to have the pro- 
perty sold in satisfaction of the late owner's mortgage debt 
to him, but that roust be determined in the usual hypothe- 
citry action. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July r, 93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORT^. 2*r 

Before Laivrie a. c j. and Withers, j. 
June 9 and 13, 1893. 

THE SINGER MASUFACTURINO COMPANY 

V. 

THE SEWING MACHINE COMPANY. 

[The Sewifig Machine Case.] 

[No. 3,762, D. C, Colombo.] 

Appealable Order-^Recojnised Agent — Proxy — Corporation 

Aggregate — Seal — Recognised Agent — Civil Procedure 

Code Sects. 756, 24, 27 and 470 — Ordinance 

No. 22 of 1866. 

The plaintiff Company having obtained an inter* m injunction against the 
defendant Company, the latter purported to present a petition to the Court 
applying for a dischirge of the injunction. The petition purported to be 
signed by F. L., proctor for the petitioning Company, and one j. K. After 
vgument the District judge made order disallowing the application as made by 
F. L, as proctor of the Company, on the ground that the Company bad no 
status to make such an application through F. L. 

Hfld, CO that this was an appealable order. (3) that as the application 
lod proxy had been uken off the Court's 6le, and the petition of appeal was 
signed by F. L. the requirements of Sect. 755 of the Civil Procedure Code as 
to signing of the petiti :n of appeal have been complied with. 

A /oint Stock Co. is m corporttion aggregate, which car.not appear in an action, 
and is consequently outside the provisions of Sect. 24 of the Civil Procedure 
Code. 

' Except as provided by special enactment, a corporation aggregate can only 
appear to an action by an Attorney made under its seal, or by Attorney 
appointed in writing by an agent, and empowered under the Company's seal 
10 bring ao action, or defend one (see O. B. C vs. Corbet, 4 S. C. C. p 158.) 

The plaintiffs, an American Company, carrying on business 
in Colombo, sought to restrain the defendants, a Joint Stock 
Company Registered and Incorporated in India and also carrying 
on business in Colombo, by a perpetual injunction from 
continuing to use and maintain on their premises in Colombo 
a sign board, which, they alleged, would deceive persons into 
the belief that the defendant Company are authorized Agents 
in Colombo of the plaintiff Company to self Sewing Machines, 
manufactured by the plaintiff Company. Soon after plaint was 
filed, plaintiff Company applied for and obtained, an interim in- 
junction against the defendant Company requiring them, their 
Agents and workmen to remove the sign board complained of. 
Oq March 9, the defendant Company purported to present 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^^ THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [VoL H. 

The a petition to the Court, applying for a difK^harge of the interim 

Manufac- injunction. The petition purported to be signed by F, Liesching, 

Company P^o^^or for the petitioning Company and one J. K. Hormusjee. 

V' After hearing counsel for the two Companies, the District 

Machine Judge (Browne) disallowed the application as made by Mr. 

Company. Ligsching as attorney of the Company, on the ground that 

the Company had no status to make such an application 

through Mr, Liesching. The defendant Company appealed from 

that order. 

L(^y^rdf A.- O, {y/\ih him Dor nhorst, Wer}4i, ?iVid DeSarqm) 
for respondents objected to the appeal being heard. The 
proctor signing a petition of appeal must be the proctor on 
the record. The District Judge having found that the de- 
fendant Company as regards the application referred to, was 
not properly represented by a proctor 'in Mr. Liesching, it 
cannot, be said that there is any proctor on the record, and 
the petition of ap|)eal in consequence cannot be received, 
as not satisfying the requirements under Sect. 775 of the Civil 
Procedure Code (Assauw v. Pestonjee i S. C. R, p. 221.) It 
is also urged that the order complained of is not an appeal- 
able order. 

Grenier (with him de Sampayo & Batva) for appellant. 

The preliminary objections taken by the Attorney General 
really affect the merits. The appeal is properly before the 
.Court, in that Mr. Liesching has signed the petition of 
appeal as proctor of the defendant Company and his 
name appears on the record as such proctor. Whether he 
could represent the defendant Company in law is the very 
question that is expressly raised in this appeal, which has not 
\ et been opened to the Court. (Withers,], We will hear your 
appeal.) Hormusjee as the recognised agent of the defendant 
Company was entitled to appoint a proctor to represent the 
defendant Company under Sec. 24 of the Civil Procedure Code, 
a Company being a **party to an action" within the meaning 
of this section. As a matter of fact the summons and injuc- 
tion were bcth served on Hormusjee as the recognised agent 
of the Company, and Hormusjee's affidavit establishes that he 
is in fact such recognised agent. Section 470 of the Civil Rro- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



jtti; I» '930 "^^^ SVPtiEliU COURT RSk)RTS. ^ 

cedure Code does not apply to an applkation UJke the present T^ 
one, but relates exclusively to two distinct stages in an action, Manufac- 
pUint and answer. ^'oul^^. 

Do7*nbarst for respondents. Chapter V of the Civil Proce- ^ v- 
^,,. ., , ^ Thb Sewing 

dure Code relating to recogmsed agents and proctors does not Machine 

apply to Joint Stocjc Companies, inasmuch as Company Law ' 

is governed by Ordinance 22 of 1866, except where provision is ex- 
pressly made by local law on the subject (O. B« C vs, Oorbet 
4, S. C. C. p 158.) Even if this chapter did apply, Hormu^)ee*s 
affidavit is insuflScient as it fails to set out that there is no 
pth^ person in Qeylon expressly authorised by the defendant 
Company to make such appearance and application on their 
behalf. There is, further, no proof of Hormusjee^s appoint- 
ment as agent at Colombo of the defendant Company. 

0)'enier in reply — Hormusjee's affidavit is sufficient proof 
of his sole agency for the defendant Company. The caae cite^ 
0. B. C. vs. Corbet, has no application at present, in that it 
was decided at a time when the law knew no such status as 
that of recognised agent, which was created by the Civijl 

Procedure Code. 

Cur. Adv. Vult. 

On June 13, 1893, the following judgment agreed to by 
Lawrie, a. c. j. was delivered: — « 

Withers, j. — This is an action by an American Company 
carrying on business in Colombo, against a Joint Stock Company 
registeted and incorporated in India and also carrying on 
Business in Colombo, in which it is sought to restrain the 
defendant Company by a perpetual injunction from continuing to 
use and maintain, on their premises in Colombo, a sign board 
Which, it is alleged, is calculated to deceive persons desirous 
of purchasing sewing machines manufactured by the plaintiff 
Company into the belief that the defendant Company are authorised 
Agentsof the plaintiff Company to sell such machines in Colpmbo, 
It appears that, soon after the plaint was filed, the plaintiff 
Company applied for, and obtained, an interim injunction against 
the defendant Company, requiring the Company its agents, and 
workmen, to i?emove the sign-board complained of. On March 9 
last, the defendant Company purported to present a petition to the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



5© tHE SUPREME COURT REtHDRtS. [Vol. li. 

The Court applying for a discharge of the interim injunction. This 

Manufac- petition purports to be signed by F. Liesching, Proctor for the 

Company Petitioning Company and one J. K. Hormusjee. After hearing 

V' Counsel for the two companies, the learned Distrtct Judge 

Machine disallowed the application as made by Mr. Liesching as Attorney 

C o mpa n y. ^£ ^j^^ Company, on the ground that the Company had no 

status to make such an application through Mr. Liesching. 

The Company appeal from that order. At the hearing 
of the appeal, a preliminary objection was taken to the 
appeal by Respondent's Counsel on the ground that the 
requirements of the 751st section of the Code have not been 
complied with. 

It was also urged that the order complained of was not 
an appealable order. 

As to the second point I may as well say at once that I think 
the order was an appealable one. The question before the Court 
was once and for all terminated by the decision of the Court, that 
the defendant Company as represented by Mr. Liesching has no 
loctAs standi. 

As regards the other point, the attention of appellants* 
Counsel was invited to the fact that the petition of appeal from 
the order complained of purports to be drawn and signed by a 
Proctor, and so fulfils the requirements of section 755 of the 
Civil Procedure Code. This difficulty was met in this way. 
This Court, it was urged, has laid it down that a petition 
of appeal must be signed by a Proctor on the record. The 
Judge having found that the Company, as regards the 
application referred to, was not properly represented by an 
Attorney in Mr. Liesching, it could not be said there was any 
Proctor on the record and' the petition of appeal in consequence 
could not be received. There is, however, herein filed of record, 
a proxy by which the defendant Company purports to empower 
Mr. Liesching to make the application to dissolve the injunction 
and to appeal from any order of the Court thereon. The learned 
Judge did not think fit to take the application and the proxy off 
• the Court's file. For the purpose then of this contention, I 
take it, we must consider the appointment of Mr. Liesching as 
Proctor, to be in force in view J>1 the provisions of section 27 of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Julyi/93«j THE SUPRBMB COURT REPORTS. 3I 

the Code. Hence thiB objection, likewise, in my opinion fails. Tho 

As to the merits, it was strenuously contended by Mr. Grenier j^ancfac- 
that the proxy which vouched the defendant Company's application qq^^p^^y 
to dissolve the injunction was a good proxy to Mr. Liesching for v* 

that purpose, because it was signed by Hormusjee (the person Machine 
before referred to) as the recognised Agent of the defendant Com- ^ ^ ^^^ ^ ^' 
pany. It was contended that both in law and in fact, Hormusjee 
was the recognised Agent of the Company, and as such Agent was 
empowered to appoint Mr. Liesching, the Company's Proctor, for 
the purpose of the application. For his capacity in law, Mr. 
Grenier relied on section 24 of the Civil Procedure Code, and for 
his capacity in fact he relied on the affidavit of Horrou^)ee to be 
found at page 71 of the record, and more particularly in the first 
paragraph thereof in which Hormusjee deposes as follows : — 

"I am the only Agent in Ceylon of the Sewing Machine Co., 
Ltd., the defendant in this case, and have been so since its forma- 
tion, and I am carrying on business for, and in the name of, the 
said Company which was formed about February 13, 1893, and 
whose Registered Office is at Bombay.*' 

It was contended on ihe other side that Chap. V of the Civil 
Procedure Code relating to recognised Agents and Proctors does 
not apply to Joint Stock Companies, inasmuch as Company Jaw is 
governed by Ordinance 22 of 1866, except where provision is ex- 
pressly made by local law on the subject, anc^nstances of such pro- 
visons in the Civil Procedure Code, to which I shall presently 
refer, were mentioned to us. 

It was also argued that, even if Chap. V of the Civil Proce- 
di^e Code did apply to this case, Hormusjee could not l>e consi. 
dered in law and fact the recognised Agent for the defendant 
Company for the purposes of this application^ inasmuch as it 
is nowhere stated in Hormusjee's affidavit that there was 
no person in Ceylon expressly authorized by the defendant 
Company to make such appearance and application herein 
as the law required or authorised to be made or dpne by a party 
to an action in the Court below — the absence or presence of such 
a ccH)dition of things being peculiarly within the knowledge oi • 
lt9nAtis^ee. Fur^bqr, thef^ is no proof of. t\\% s^id J» K, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



32 THE SUPREME COURT RF.PORTH. IVol. ii. 

The Hormu8Jee*s appointment as Agent, at Colonibo, of the defen- 
Maniifac dant Company. 

CoMPANv ^" ^y opinion, the contention of respondent's counsel must 

V' prevail. A Joint Stock Company is a corporation aggregate, 
Machine which cannot appear in an action, and is, consequently, outside 
Company, ^j^^ provisions of section 24 of the Civil Procedure Code. 

. Its very composition renders its appearance in person as an 
ordinary party to aft action, impossible. To obviate difficulties 
occasioned by its constitution, the law has provided, for instance, 
that a Joint Stock Company may be compelled to answer to in- 
terrogatwies by a member or officer of such Company — section 
97 of the Civil Procedure Code. The law thereby creates a 
mouth-piece for it. 

Section 470 of the Code creates a hand for it by allowing 
the plaint or answer to be subscribed on behalf of the 
Company by any member, Director, Secretary, Manager or 
other principal officer thereof, who is able to depose to the 

facts of the case. 

By section 471, it provides for a particular mode of service 
on the Company, and for compelling the Secretary or other 
principal officer of the Company to appear and answer any 
material question relating to the action, if so required, by 
sun mons or special order of the Court. 

By section 655 where an action has been instituted by a Com- 
pany it permits the principal officer of a Company to make affida- 
vit in support of the motion for the arrest of the defendant's 
person or the sequestration of his property before judgment. 

Even if section 24 ot 25 of the Civil Procedure Code does apply 
to the case of a Joint Stock Company, which I have taken leave to 
doubt, 1 think, J. K. Hormusjee^s affidavit is insufficient, on the 
positive side, as to his being th^ duly appointed Agent in 
Ceylon of the defendant Company, and on the negative sidei 
as to there being no other person in Ceylon competent to 
appear and make application for the Company in a civil 
suit. I take the hw to be, now as before, that, except as 
specially provided — and I know of no such provision — a 
corporation aggregate, lifie the Defendant Company, can bfiiy 
tpftix t9 ftp action by m Attorney upd^r its ^\ or 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 8, '93.] THB SUl»ft6ME COUrT REPORtS. J3 

(sec case cited in iv. Supreme Court Circular p. 158) by an JThe 

Attorney appointed in writing, by an Agent empowered Makhkac- 

under the Company's seal to bring an action or defend one. Jompanv 

For this reason I would affirm' the learned Judge's order _ v- 

•' The Sewing 

disallowing the application on behalf of the Company by Machine 

Mr. Liesching to dissolve the interim injanction granted to ^tl^ ^ ^' 

the Plaintiff Company. No costs. 



Before Lawne^ j. 

March 2 and 7, 1893. 

PERERA V. HARMANIS. 

[No. 472, Ad, P. C, Colombo.] 

Itinerating Police Court— Ordinance No. 12 of 1890^ 
Evidence — Dishofiestly retaining stolen property* 

Ordinance No. I a of 1890 enacts that a Police Court *Mawkilly esublithe<l 
in any division shall be holden bv and before the Police Magistrate appointed 
thereto, at any convenient spot within the liraits of such division*'— 

Sfmble per Lawrie, a. C. j^ that it is desirable that, in the case of Police 
Courts held at different places as permitted by this Ordinance, the Police Magistrate 
should state as a matter of reconi that the pbce at which he holds his Court 
is within his division, and that it is at a convenient spot for the trial, and 
that he had given due notice that he would sit there. 

Observations on the inconvenience and hardship to which suitors and wit- 
nesses having to attend the Police Court, to which the prestnt case betongs, 
are exposed. 

On a charge under section 394 of the Ceylon Penal Code of dishonestly 
retaining stolen property knowing or having reason to believe the! same to be 
stolen, It IS necessary that the prosecution should prove facts from which it could 
reasonably be inferred that the possession by the accu^ was dishonest. 

The facts sufficiently appear in the judgment. 

Domhorsty for accused-appellant. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On March 7, the ibllo^nng judgment i/vas delivered. 

Lawrie, j. — The proceedings are headed in the "Itiner- 
ant Police Court of Colombo " — a court which is unknown to 
me. However, on page 3 I find that the Court which tried 
the case was the Additional Police Court of Colombo held at 
Welisara on February 16, 1893. ^^ reference to a map 
I sec that there is a Welisara on the road from Colombo to 
Jaela^. It is possibly a small place, because I do not find it 
nientioned in any of the Government Itineraries, n may, 

» 5 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



34 TliE SUPREME CobRT REPORTS, [VoL 



U. 



Pekeka howerer, be a "convenient spot," and the Police Magistrate 
Harmanw. is permitted by 12 of 1890 to hold his Court at any •* convenient 
spot" within the limits of his division. 

I should like the Police Magistrate, in future, to state as 
a matter of record that the place he holds his court in is within 
his division, and that it is at a convenient spot for the trial, 
and that he had given due notice that he would sit there, 

I have observed in other cases which come before me 
from this Police Court that it is really '•itinerating"— here to- 
day and away to-mormw. The Magistrate is followed by com- 
plainants and accused and witnesses but not by counsel, for 
the time of counsel and proctors is too valuable to permit 
them to follow this peripatetic court, which sits when the Magis- 
trate pleases, in public places and in private houses, at any 
hour, from sunrise to sun^t, with, I should imagirie, im- 
mense inconvenience to ieveryone, particularly to the witnesses 
and to the accused, who are without legal advice. 

Here the Magistrate charged the accused with having on 
September, 22, 1892, dishonestly retained a stolen cow, the 
property of Haramaniis, knowing or having reason to believe 
the same to be stolen, an offence punnishdble under sectioh 
394 of the Penal Code. He convicted the accused in the same 
terms as the charge. Thechargfeand conviction arte bad in law, 
because the Magistrate had no jurisdiction to try the offence 
summanly, unless the value of the stolen property, dishonestly 
retained, was under Rs. 100. The value of the property is 
not stated in the complaint, nor in the charge, nor in the 
conviction. 

On the merits, there is no evidence of the accused's dishonesty 
or of his knowledge or of his having reason to believe the 
cow was stolen. 

Haramanis lost a cow on February, 1890. Two and a half 
years afterwards, on September 22, 1892, the cow was seized 
as a trespasser on another man*s land, and both the accused 
and Haramanis, claimed it as their own. 

Haramanis undoubtedly had npt been in possession for 
the 2^ }ears. The accused had been in possession for apart 
of that time. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Jdy 8, '93.] THB iUPRBME cotmr reports. 35 

It may be that the coir formerly belonged to Haramanis^ Perera 
but it was necessary to prove facts from which it would Harmanis. 
reasonably be inferred that the possession by the accused was 
dbhonest. I invite the attention of the Magistrate to the 
statements of the accused in the petition of appeaU I have 
not relied on these but they deserve attention. 

The accuied is acquitted and discharged* 



Before Lawrie a. c. j. and WitJiers, j. 

May 5 and I2» 1893. 

SANDFORD and another v. DON PETER. 

[No. 5,470 D. C, Kandy.] 

Leas^ — Covenant to pay rent — Breach of Forfeiture and 
Serenity — Equitable relief. 

A Court has power in the exercise of its equitable jurisdiction, to mot 
rtlirf— where the circunastances warrant such relief— to a lessee against a clause 
of ibrfieiture and re entry for breach of covenant to pay rent. 

The terms of an indenture of lease can only be altered by an independent 
cootraa satisfying the statute of Frauds. 

Per Lawrie, a. C. j.— In tquity the construction put on a elauie of for- 
feiture of a lease on non-payment of rent is that it is a mere security for 
the payment of rent, and as the breach of that covenant it capable of a jusc 
compensation, a Court of equity may award the compensation and abstain Irofa 
cnforcinj?: the forfeiture. 

The action was in ejectment. 

The facts sufiiciently appear in the judgments: — 

Layardj A. G. { Wendt with him) for defendant-appellant. 

Dornhorst for plaintiflfs-respondents. 

On May 12, the following judgments were delivered: — 

Lawrie, a. c. j. — The cause of action is the defendant's failure 
to pay rent for the months from April i, 1891, till 
February i, 1892. 

The action was instituted on February 16, 1892. The 
defendant admits the non-payment. The issue is whether 
the admitted non-payment was, or was not, due to the 
neglect or default on defendant's part. By the lease the 
rent was payable monthly on the 15th of each month. " 

The plaintiffs Qoasented \q thQ d^fendfiint paying rent 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



36 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii* 

Sandfoed quarterly instead of monthly, I take it such quarterly pay- 
Don Petee. ments were to be made not in advance, but at the end of 
each quarter. 

It is proved that the plaintifiis gave notice to the defen- 
dant's manager that they desired a resumption of the noonth* 
ly payments, but that notice was not given to the defendant 
himself. It is my opinion that the plainti& were bound to 
give special notice to the defendant that they intended to re- 
quire monthly payments and that, on failure to pay monthly, 
the clause of forfeiture and re-entry would be enforced. 

Until such notice was given the defendant was in time 
if he paid each quarter's rent within three months of the date 
it fell due. 

The rent for the first quarter of 189X was paid. The rent 
for the second quarter fell due on June 30. It was not then 
paid ; the forfeiture for non-payment was not exigible until 
the rent had been three months in arrear, viz :. on September 30. 

On September 74, 1891, within the three months, the 
defendants tendered the rent. They thereby purged their 
default ; they were no longer in arrear. 

The next quarter rent fell due on 30th September. The 
defendant was in arrear if he did not pay or tender before 
December 31. 

Unfortunately the defendant did not within that time 
tender the rent. He made the mistake of setting off a private 
debt alleged to be due by the 1st plaintiff to the firm of 
which the defendant is a [member, and he tendered only a 
balance. 

Thi^ position was untenable. The debt which the ist plain- 
tiff owed to a firm could not be set off against a debt due 
to both plaintiffs by the defendant. 

Undoubtedly on January i, 189a, the defendant was more 
than three months in arrear of the rent, and the clause in 
the lease forfeiting his interest and giving to the lessors power 
to re-enter became enforceable in strict law. 

But 9i,s a Court of £<}uity I tb^^k \ye are 1;>9U^4 t9 
interpose, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 8, '93.] THS supHfiiia coun erforts. 37 

lo equity the conttrnctiQB pat on a claote of for£titure SAMtxFOftu 
of a lease on non-payment of rent is that it is a mere seen- Don Peter 
rity for the payment of rent, and that as the breach of that 
coveoapt is capable of a just compenaation^ a Court of equity 
may award the compensation and abetain from enforcing the 
forfeiture. 

Appljring this principle and assert bg this equity jurisdie* 
tion I would give to the defendant an opportunity of fully 
purging his default by paying the rent due up to date. 

I would defer giving judgment on this appeal until the 
4th day of Julj% and if on or before that day the defendant 
pay to the plaintiffs the rent up to the end of March of this 
year with interest at 9 per cent on arrears* and also the 
costs of the cause, then I would set aside the judgment and 
dismiss this action ; but if the payment be not made then or 
m July, 1893, I would affirm the judgment with costs. 

Withers j.— I think there can be no doubt that the 
defendant has broken his covenant to pay rent at the time 
stipulated in the indenture of the lease whereby a right of 
re-entry has accrued to his landlords who in consequence bring 
this action in ejectment. 

Taking the last, and I think the best, point pressed upon 
us by the Attorney-General this state of things suggests two 
questions. (1) Has this court jurisdiction to relieve against 
what is called for feiture for non-payment of rent? (2) Is this 
a proper case for such relief? 

In the text books on Roman*Dutch Law I have not been 
able to lay my hand on any authority for such an equitable 
jurisdiction. At the same time I am under the impression that 
relief against ejectment for breach of such a covenant has been 
not unfrequently granted in our Courts. Although I must say 
that I have only been able to find one case since the argu- 
ment, and that is reported in Beven and Siebel's reports for 
1875 page 43- 

There this Court constituted by Sir Richard Cayley, c.j. 
and H. Dias, j. affirmed the Judgment of my brother I^awrie, c. j. 
inrho granted rf|;ef to ^ (essee against fgirfeitvire fgr {ion-payment 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



38 THE tUTOSMS COUW »ETORTi» [Vol. U. 

SAftrvFORD of T&nt in a cMe« whioh came before him in the Dtvtrict 
Don ^ETit. Court of Kandy. 

I am on the whole diipofled to think that we have jurisdic* 
tion to relieve, if in other respects the circumstances justify 
the exercise of this jurisdiction. Having regard to that pro- 
vision in the lease which gave liberty to the defendant to 
erect a certain daiss of building oa the parcel of land deniised 
to him, and to the fact that the defendant laid a considerable 
sum of money out in the erection of buildings, having regard to 
tl^e extension of time fropi monthly to quarterly payments, and 
the absence ot any notipe, after a course of dealing between 
the parties on the foqting of this indulgent ej^tension of time, 
that the right of re-entry ^ould be strictly insisted upon if the 
defendant did not resume punctual monthly payments in 
terms of his covenant, considering that the ist quarter's 
payment for 1891 was offered and accepted, that the 2nd 
quarter's payment was tendered within three months after it 
became due and was refused, and that the 3rd quarter's pay- 
ment less deducted sum, iu view of certain antecedent trans- 
actions by the defendant, without legal justification, but not 
without some show of reason, was offered within three months 
of i(s becoming due £(nd payable but refused, I am of opinion 
(which is not a very confident one) that this is a proper case 
for the relief proppsed by the Chief Justice. 

The agreement to extend the time from monthly to quarterly 
payments was not a binding agreement on the lessors, as the 
terms for the time of payment could not be altered without an 
independent contract satisfying the statute of Frauds* 

The agreement to take quarterly payment was nothing more 
than a voluntary forbearance by the lessor, and would not be 
an answer to this action, the actual acceptance of a quarterly 
payment amounting only to a waiver of breaches prior thereto. 
The contention pressed upon us by the Attorney-General in 
opening his appeal, that the plaint disclosed no cause of 
action in the present plaintififs, on the ground briefly 
put that the lessors sold only a reversion in the land 
after the expiration of the lease and not any interest in the 
lease itself, caonot, I think, be listened to for the simply rea^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



juiy^, *93-l "T^^E SUPREME COURT REPORTS. J^ 

son that the plaintifis distinctly stated the effect of the trans- SAifDPORD 
fers from two of the original lessors to the present pkintiAi Don Petcr 
to be, inter alia, an assignment of all the rights and benefits ""~ 
reserved by the said lease, and the defendant admitted the 
correctness of those statements. 

The 7th paragraph ot the answer on which the Attorney- 
Gend:al relied is a traverse of an inferential averment in 
pduugraph 9 of the plaint, and says merely that nothing in 
that paragraph entitles the plaintiffs to eject them. 

It does not sslj that as a matter of law the plaint didcloHed 
no right of action in the plalntifEs. 

I therefore agree in this order proposed by my brother 
LivitaEi c. J. 



Before WWierSj }. 

June 29 and July 5, 1893. 

In the matter of a charge of contempt of Court against 
Perera and others. 
1,646 

[No. , C. R., KURUNEGALLE.] 

Contempt of^ Court'-JUfHsdiction^Section i2S of the 
Penal Code. 

Accused were convicted by the Commissioner of the Court of Requests of 
Konincgallc of contempt of Court in that they interrupted the business of the 
Court by conducting, close to it, a noisy procetsion^JErcfM that the conriction 
was wrong, inasmuch as the Commissioner was not competent to try an 
alleged oftemse of contempt not committed in the pfeseoce of his Court ancl not 
committed in the course of any act or proceeding in his court and dedared by 
any law to be punishable at contempt of Court. 

If the conduct of accused amounted to an ofTence at all , it was that des 
cribed by section 223 of the Penal Cede, and triable only by another and 
competent Court. Moreover, the charge should have Specified the judicial 
proceeding in which the Court wds engaged when interrupted. 

The Commissioner having taken evidence that, on June 7, 
1893, when the Court was sitting, the appellants conducted 
along the public road close to the Court a procession com- 
posed of people shouting, beating tom-toms, discharging fire- 
arms, &c. and thus interrupted the business of the Court, 
found the appellants guilty, and passed sentence on them in 
these terms— '< The ist, and, 3rd, 4th and 6th accused are 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4o tHE SCF*REME COdRT llBt»ORTS. [Vol. il. 

In the matter gruihy, and are sentenced to pay a fine of Rs, lo each, or 
^contemprof i^ default of payment to-day, to rigorous imprisonment for 

•thers. In appoal, 

Pereira for appellants — A Conunissioner has no jurisdic- 
tion to try for contempts committed ex fcicie of the Court,, 
except where he is specially empowered to do so by the 
legislature. In such s^ case as the present, there is no special 
authority conferred on Commissioners. The Commissioner acted, 
apparently, under Chapter LXV of the Civil Procedure Code 
but he has not made out the conviction in the form referred 
to in section 797. The accused intended no contempt. They 
stopped the tom-toms when asked to do so, but were practi- 
cally powerless to stop the vociferations of the crowd. 

Cur. adv, vult. 

On July 3, the following judgment was delivered by 

Withers, j. — I feel bound to set aside this conviction, 
because I do not think that the Commissioner was competent 
to try an alleged offence of contempt which was not committed 
in the presence of his Court of Requests, and was not commit- 
ted in the course of any act or proceeding in his Court, and 
declared by any law to be punishable as contempt of Court. 

If. the conduct of the accused amounted to an offence at 
all, it was that described by section 223 of the Penal Code 
as intentionally causing an interruption to a public servant, 
while such public servant is sitting in a stage of a judicial 
proceeding. That offence could be tried only by another and 
competent Court. Moreover the charge should have specified the 
judicial proceeding in which the Commissioner was engaged at 
the time he was interrupted by the noisy procession near his 
Court in ^bich the accused took part. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 15, *93.] THB SUPREUB COURT REPOKTS. 

Before Bumside c. j. Lawrie and Withers^ j. j. 

January 24 And Feburary 28, 1893. 

SUBEHAMI and others v. BASNAYEKE and others. 

[No. 240, D.C., Matara.] 

Leaae — Breach of Covenant for quiet possession — Action 
against lessor — Damages, 

PlaiDtiifs and 5th defendant got a lease from the firit four defendants. At 
the date of lease, the land demised was under lease to lessees, of whom the 5th 
defendant was one. These lessees having refused to give up possession, the 
plaintiffs sued for damages consequent upon the breach of covenant for quiet 
possession. 

Held (per BuRNSIDE C. J. and WrTHERs J.) that some co-tenants cannot 
sue a landlord for the breach of a covenant to let them into premises at a day 
6xed under a demise for a term of years, when one of them has been let io, and 
enjoys the benefits of the lease made jointly to him and those whom he has 
lortiously excluded firom the premises. 

Per Lawkie, j.— If under a lease the lessor impliedly contracts to five the 
lessee possession at the commencement of the terra, and if he £iils to do so by 
reason of a preTions tenant wroogfiillj holding over, the lessee may recover 
damages, and is not driven to bring ejectment against the previous tenants. 

The plaintiffs and the 3th defendant got a lease from 
the first four defendants. At the date of the lease the land 
was demised to lessees, one of whom was the fifth defen- 
dant. The lessees then in possession, did not give up 
possession, and consequently plaintiffs did not get possession. 
The plaintiffs brought the present action to recover damages 
consequent on the failure of the defendants to let them into 
the premises demised. 

The plaintiffs appealed. 

SeneiHratne for plaintiffs. 

Domhorst{Wendt with him ) for ist, and, 3rd and 4th defen- 
dants. 

Oreni&r for 5th defendant. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

BuRNSiDE, c. J. — This action is altogether misconceived and 
assuming that there has been a breach of covenant for quiet en- 
joyment, which, I do not see my way to admit, the plaintiffs 
cannot recover ,even against the 5th and 6th defendants who 
must necessarily be dismissed from the suit. 

I think it best to affirm the judgment and leave the plain- 
tiffs to bring a fresh action in effect perhaps a little more 

B 6 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



42 . THE SUPAHMb COURT REt»QJ^TS. [Vol. U. 

expensive, but certainly more satisfactory than proceeding on 
SuBftHAMi encumbered by the debris of this, even if he undertake to 
Basnavekr. amend the pleadings. 

Lawrie, j. — The plaintiflFs and the 5th defendant got a 
lease from the hrst four defendants. At the date of lease the 
land demised was under an unexpired lease to lessees .of whom 
the 5th defendant was one. These lessees did not give up 
and consequently the plaintiffs did not get possession. The 
failure of the lessors to give possession entitled the lessees 
to damages. There are not many cases reported on this 
point, I refer however to I Lorenz p 191 and Ramanathan 
(1877) p. 117. 

I am of opinion that the wrongdoers in this case are the 
lessors and not the 5th defendant* He did no wrong. He had 
an existing lease under which he was in possession which he 
was entitled to hold to. By joining in the new lease he 
did not covenant to his co-lessees for entry or quiet 
possession. 

It was the duty of the lessors before granting the second 
lease to have made such arrangement with the 5th defen- 
dant, and the other lessees as would hvae enabled the lessors to 
give possession on the day of entry, 

o* Jt has been settled in a series of cases (cited by Woodfall 
p. 696) that if under a lease the lessor impliedly contracts to 
give the lessee possession at the commencement of the term, 
and if he fails to do so by reason of a previous tenant wrong- 
fully holding Qver, the lessee may recover damages and is 
not driven to bring ejectment against the previous tenant 
Coe V. Clay 5 Bing p. 440. Jinks v. Edwards 1 1 Exch p. 775, 
Ludwell v. Newman 6 T, R. p. 458. 

The present is a stronger case against the lessor than 
these. In the English cases the previous tenants were wrong- 
doers holding over without title. But here the previous 
lease still existed. The first four defendants in leasing to a 
second set of tenants knew what their obligation was and 
that they would be liable in damages if they failed to make 
such arrangement as would enable them to give the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 15, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 43 

Dew tenant possession on the first day of the new lease. Subkhami 

V 
I agree that the 6th defendant ought not to have been joined qas nayi ke. 

as defendant. I would amend the plaint by striking out the words 

"falsely" and "unlawfully" in the 5th paragraph. When so 

amended the allegations are in conformity with the facts proved. 

I would set aside the judgment, and dismiss tiie action 
as against the 6th defendant with costs, and give judgment 
against the, ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4 defendants for the damages 
prayed for up to August i, 1892, when the plaintiffs got 
possessicM), with costs against them. I find no costs due to or 
by the 5th defendant. 

Withers, j. — I think the judgment should be affirmed with 
costs and that 6th defendant is entitled to bis costs in appeal. 
The evidence is so far at variance with the plaint as to show 
that the present action cannot be maintained. 

It was the 5th defendant, a co-lessee with the plaintiff under 
a joint lease from the 4th defendant, who united with the 6th 
defendant in preventing the plaintiff from having the itte and 
enjoyment of the premises from the commencemeDt of their 
lea^ in August 1890. 

I fail to see how some co-tenants can sue a landlord for the 
breach of a covenant to let them into premises at a day fixed 
under a demise of a term of years, "When one of them has 
been let in and enjoys the benefits of the lease made jointly to 
him and those whom he has tortiously excluded from the 
premises. 

I think the action has been misconcieVed. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



44 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. U. 

Before Withers^ j. 

June 29 and July 3, 1893. 

[No. 12,940, P. C, Hatton.] 

HARMAN V. MUTTIAH and others. 

Ordinance 14 of J 878 — Sections 6 and 7 — Repeals-Weights 
and Measures — Striker — Section 289 Penal Code. 

. Sect. S of the Weights and Measures Ordinance No. 14 of 187S specially 
provides against the use of a measuring striker which is not round and straight, 
and of the same diameter from end to end. 

Held^ that this Section has not been affected by the repeal of Section 7 
of the same Ordinance, which makes the use of a striker not in conformity 
with the terms of this Section, an offence punishable with fine or imprisonment, 
and that the provision of this Section now comes within the provision of Section 
289 of the Penal Code which enacts as follows : — 

** Whoever wilfully neglects or omits to perform any duty imposed upon 
him. by, or wilfully disobeys or infringes any provision of any Ordinance or 
' 'statute heretofore, or hereafter to be enacted, for which neglect, omission, disobe- 
dience, or infringement, no punishment is or shall be, by this Code, or any 
other Ordinance or statute, othemvise specially provided, shall be punished 
with a fine. 

The facts material to this report appear in the judgment : — 

iJomhorst {Ch'enier and Wendt with him) for appellants. 

. No coimsel for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On July 3, the following judgment was delivered: — 

Withers, j. — The first offence of which the ist accused 

has been convicted in these proceedings as principal and the 

other accused as aiding and abetting is the o£fence of wilfully 

strking a measure of capacity with a stick not being round and 

straight and of the same diameter from end to end as required 

by Sect. 5 of Ordinance 14 of 1878, and Ordinance " to amend 

the Weights and Measures Ordinance 1876 ** in violation of 

the provisions of Sect. 289 of the Penal Code which enacts 

as follows: — 

" Whoever wilfully neglects or omits to perform any duty 

imposed upon him by, or wilfully disobeys or infringes any 

provision of any ordinance or statute heretofore, or hereafter 

to be enacted, for which neglect, omission, disobedience, or 

infringement, no punishment is or shall be, by this Code, or 

uy other ordinance or statute, otherwise specially provided, 

shall bt punished with a fine." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 15, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 45 

As to this conviction it was argued by appellants' counsel Hajuian 
that it was contrary to law and against the weight of evidence. Mitttiah. 

It was urged in the first place that considering the posi- 
tion in the Code of the 289th Sect, this section can only ap- 
ply to wilful infringement of provisions of Ordinances for which 
DO punishment has been ordained, which deal with matters 
of the same kind as those which are made punishable as 
offences in Chapter XIV of the Code; but, to my mind, the 
language of this 289th section is too wide to have that limitation 
put upon it, while its position is not so strange as at first 
sight ap{>ears. It is found at the end of a Chapter which 
declares various kinds of conduct on the border line of crimes 
proper to be offences and punishable as such It was then 
urged that this section cannot apply to the 5th section of 
Ordinance 14 of 1878 because this section should be regarded 
as attendant on a subsequent section of the same Ordinance, 
viz, the 7th section, which makes the use or possession under 
special circumstances of a striker not in conformity with the 
terms of the 5th section an offence punishable with fine or 
imprisonment, and as the 7th section has been repealed, the 5th 
section must be taken to have been repealed with it. In my 
opinion there is not such a vital connection between the two 
sections as this argument would imply. 

The repeal of the 7th section as a matter of fact, leaves 
untouched the 5th section of Ordinance 14 of 1878 which spe- 
cially provides against the use of a measuring striker which 
is not round and straight and of uniform diameter from end to end. 
No punishment being now provided in this Ordinance for non- 
compliance with this provision I think this provision comes 
within the purview of Sect. 189 of the Penal Code. 

As to this conviction being against the weight of evidence 
I have come to the conclusion that it is not so, though I am 
not surprised that it was so contended. There is much that 
is unsatisfactory about the evidence of one Shuni, the only 
witness for the prosecution, who deposes to having seen the 
ist accused use the grooved striker in levelling the rice measured 
for sale. But the very fact of such a striker being found on 
the occasion in question in the boutique where the accused 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



46 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

Harman ^ere employed in recording, measuring and delivering the rice sold 
MuTTiAH. by the ist accused to the coolies of Drayton Estate, and the fact 
of the deficiency in a quantity of rice sold by measure to one 
of the coolies confirm his testimony. 

I have given this part of the case my best consideration 
and I cannot say that the Magistrate has come to a wrong 
conclusion. 

Admit the wilful use by the ist accused of the grooved 
striker in levelling the rice and I think it cannot be gainsaid 
that all the other accused abetted the use of it, so I affirm 
the conviction pn this charge. 

The conviction on the 2nd charge of cheating must be 
quashed. The charge of cheating is not an alteration of the 
former charge. It is a charge of a new and distinct offence. 

A charge which changes the nature of an offence in the 
original charge cannot be said to be an alteration of that charge. 
Even the sustained charge was defective by the ommission of 
the word "wilfully,*' but I do not think the accused can be 
said to have been prejudiced by the ommission of that word 
in view of the circumstances disclosed by the case for the 
prosecution. The judgment contains this important word. 

** Wilfully " is not defined in our Code, but I think it may be 
taken to mean knowingly and with evil intent, and there is little 
doubt in my mind that the grooved striker was used by the 
ist accused on this occasion with intent to defraud, and (as I 
said before) that the other accused wilfully abetted him. 



Before LawHe^ j. 
June 22 and 27, 1893. 

THE QUEEN r. FERNANDO. 

' [No. 1,030, D, C, Crim,, Negombo.] 

Contempt of Court—making of false statement in affidant 

of sefvice of process— Penal Code Sectn. 223— Civil 

Procedure Code Sects, 372 and 797. 

The making of a false statement of fact in an affidavit is not a contempt 
of court, but the makings of a false statement of fact by an officer charged with 
the execution of process in his af&davit of service of process is an offence, 
which is punishable as contempt of court under Sect. 372 of the Civil Procedurt 
Code. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July tS, 93.] THE SUPRBME COURT REPORTS. 47 

The accused Davit F&rnando was convicted of having IhiQuein 
committed a contempt of court, in that he, on the i6th of Fernando. 
January, 1893, <^id make a false statement of fact in the affi- 
davit made by him on the 15th of January 1893, on the sum- 
mons on the defendant, in District Court Negombo, No. 1030, 
by falsely stating that he had served the said summons on the 
defendant^ when, in &ct, he had not served it. 

Setievirattie for accused-appellant. 

The conviction should recite the the materials on which it 
is founded (see Sect. 793 Civi Procedure Code). The material is 
given in the conviction do not disclose the offence of contempt 
of Court (Sect. 223 Penal Code). If the accused has committed 
any offence, it is the offence defined in Sect. 372 of the Civil 
Procedure Code, which is not contempt of Court, but only 
punishable as such, but in the materials recited in the convic- 
tion, there is nothing to show that the statement made in the 
affidavit was false. 

Diufty C. G. for the Crown. The definition of contempt of 

Court has been enlarged by Sect. 137, 713 and 717 of the 

Civil Procedure Code in a manner which would include the 

present case. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On June 27, the following judgment was delivered : — 
Lawrie, a. c. j. — ^This is an appeal against a conviction for 
contempt of Court. 

The District Judge stated in the conviction that the accused 
was Davit Fernando, of N egombo, and that he had committed 
a contempt of Court in that he, on the i6th day of January 
1893, did make a false statement of fact in the affidavit 
made by him on the i6th January, 1893, on the summons 
on the defendant in District Court, Negombo, case No. 1,030, 
by falsely stating that he had served the said summons on 
the defendant, when, in fact, he had not served it. 

This did not disclose the offence of contempt of Court. 

A contempt of Court is defined in section 223 of the 
Penal Code. It consists in intentionally offering any insult 
or causing any interruption to any public servant while 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



48 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. U. 

The Queen such public servant is sitting in any stage of a judicial 
Ebrhando. proceeding. 

This definition is enlarged by the 137, 713 and 717 and 
other sections of the Civil Procedure Code, but I have not 
been referred to any section of either Code which makes the 
making a felse statement of fact in an affidavit a contempt 
of Court, for, obsetVe, that in this conviction, it is not stated 
that the accused was an officer of the Court, nor that the 
afif.davit was presented when the District Judge was sitting. 

Further, it seems to me that the charge is defective in 
that it is not said the affidavit contained a statement which 
the accused knew or believed to be false or did not believe 
to be true. 

I am inclined to the opinion that the proper course would 
have been to have presented a complaint to the Police Magis- 
trate charging the accused under section 179 of the Penal Code. 
However, it was open to the District Judge to proceed under 
section 372 of the Civil Procedure Code, though under that 
section it was necessary to state that the affidavit was false 
to the knowledge of the accused, and the charge should have 
been, not for contempt, but for the separate offence of making 
a false affidavit, &c. which by section 372 is not said to be 
contempt of Court, but, to be an ofience punishable as such. 
V Another requirement of section 797, and of the form 134, 
is that the conviction shall recite the materials on which it is 
founded, and shall adjudicate upon the material facts of the 
accused's behaviour and language with so much of the 
surrounding circumstances as caused them to constitute the 
oflence of contempt of Court. 

The latter adjudication was, here, impossible because 
the act which constituted the offence was not done in facie 
curim. 

The materials on which the conviction was founded 
are said to be the affidavit of the defendant dated 2nd 
May 1893, and the evidence of the plaintiff taken on the 25th 
May 1893, the day before the accused was charged with this 
oftence. In my opinion neither of these materials was ad- 
missible evidence. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 22, '93.] THE SUPRBHfi COURT RBPORTS. H 

Jf the evidence of the defendant and of the plaintiff in THxQtnriiN 
District Court Case 1,030 was material in the summary trial RiafiANDo. 
of this offence, such evidence could only be given in Court 
inva voce in presence of the accused and subject to his right 
to cross-examine. These materials have no probative value aud 
are not evidence on which the District Coort could, coinvict 
and sentence. 

The Court had, however, other and better evidence before 
it than it recited in the conviction. 

The defendant in 1,030 was examined in the course of 
the summary trial of the accused and gave evidence that 
the accused did not serve the summons on him, and he was cross 
examined for the accused. ' 

I do not say that the District Judge would not have 
been justified in convicting on this defendant's evidence alone, 
though I think it would he a somewhat slender foundation for 
a conviction being oath against oath. 

But, as the District Judge himself records that he convicted 
on other evidence, which I have shown was inadmissible, I 
am unable to amend the conviction by striking out the reference 
to the inadmissible, and by inserting a reference to the admiss- 
ible, evidence. For all these reasons, I hold that the conviction 
must be set aside, and the accused acquitted. 



Before Jjuwrie^ a. c, j. 

July 7 and 13, 1893. 

ANDREE i;. COORAY. 

[No. 490, Ad, P. C, Colombo.] 

Cnnmtal TreMpoBs— Charge— Mischief Ceylon Penal Code, 
Sects. 427 and 408. 

Acctt«d was charged with criminal trespass in that be "entered upon 
land in the possession of H. A. with intent to commit an offence." 

Held, that in such a charge it is essential that the offence intended to 
be committed by the accused after, entry khould be suted, ahd that the above 
charge was bad for. want of such statement. The evidence shewing that 
accu^ entered upon the land to intimidate^ insult and'anitoy the complainant, 
the bupreme Court, however, akertd the charge accordingly* and convicted 

accused th#>r#iinAn ^ ' 



accused thereupon 
B 7 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



t THE SUPRfillB COtIRT KKt>ORtS, [Vol. il. 

Alfimt Plvcliing coconuts, mature or immature, and jack, from trees is not causing 

Iff such destruction of, or change in property as constitutes the offence of mischief. 

CoOiUY* 

The ficts of the case sufficiently appear in the judgment. 

Pereira for accused, appellant. 
> Dornhorst for complainant, respondent. 

On July I3> the following judgment was delivered by 

Lawrib, a, c. j. — The Police Magistrate has given leave 
to s^ppeal against the fxinviction and sentence. The charge 
framed by the Magistrate was that the accused '*did commit 
criminal trespass by entering upon land Kalupallalewatte, 
then in the possession oi Hugh Andree, with intent to commit 
an offence and that you have thereby commited an offence 
punishable under section 433 of the Ceylon Penal Code.'* 

This was a bad charge because it did not set forth what 
was the offence the accused intended to commit. 

Section 38 of the Penal Code enacts that the word "offence" 
\ in section 427 which defines Criminal Tresspass means, not 
only a thing punishable by the Penal Code» but also a thing 
punishable under any law other than the Code, with imprison- 
ment for a term of six months or upwards, whether with or 
without fine ; section 435 and the subsequent section of the Peoal 
Code show that the punishment of criminal hous^ trespass 
varies according as the accused is convicted of intending to 
commit one crime or another. 

I think it is essential that the charge should state what 
offence the complainant charged tke accused with intending to 
commit. If the intended prime was murder or any crime 
punishable by long imprisonment, the Police Magistrate would 
not have jurisdiction to try the charge of criminal trespass; 
apart from a question of jusisdiction the charge should give 
.the accused roasooably sufficient notice of the matter with 
which he is charged. 

In this respect I hold the charge of criminal trespass was 
defective. 

The second charge is *»that you did commit mischief to 
wit, by forcibly plucking and removing 75 king cocoanuts 
and eight green cocoanuts and two jack fruits, value Rs. 9, 
fruits of the trees standing on the land Kalupellalawatte 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 22, '93.] THR SUPREME COURT REPORtS. \ 

in the possession of Hugh ADdree, knowing it to be likely Andree 
that you would cause wrongful loss to the said Hugh Andree, Coorav. 
and have thereby committed an offence punishable under section 
409 of the Ceylon Penal Code." 

If this charges discloses and sets forth any offence, which 
I doubt, it certainly does not set forth the offence of mischief. 

Taking cocoanuts or jack from trees is not a destruction 
of property, or any snch change in the property, or in the 
situation thereof as destroys or diminishes its value or utility 
or affects it injuriously. Neither the tree nor the fruits Wer6 
destroyed, nor by the removal was the value or utility 
diminished, nor were they injuriously affected. The circums- 
tances with which the removal occurred did not reasonably 
give rise to the belief that the accused committed theft. I 
find in the evidence sufficient material upon Which tO amend 
the first count of the charge by deleting the words ••to com- 
mit an offence *' and by substituting the words'^ to intimidate, lA^Ult 
and annoy the said Hugh Andree." 

I find the accused guilty on the 1st count and sentence 
Urn to one month's rigorous imprisonment. I set aside the 
conviction on the second count and acquit the aoeuied of the 
ofeice of mitehi^. 



Bbforb Bumsid0^ c. j. 

Feburary 9 and 17, 1887. 

PAMMODARAMPILLAI v. PANGAMUTtUPILLAI 

[No. 24,194, D. C, Batticaloa.] 

Agreement by a mother to give herdfmgMerin marrii$gs — how 
to be con^tnied and how far binding^^- 

Plainiiflf in his libel averrsd tbstf he proposed and «^ed to and wttk 
defendant that he should ladrry defendant's daughter and that defendant's daughter 
being then a minor, defendant, who aecoroing to custom had control and 
authority over her to enable her to give her in marriage, agreed that her 
daughter should marrj' plaintiff within a reasonable time. Plaintiff further 
averred that defendant foiled to perform her part of the agreement in that 
she proposed that her daughter should marry another man. 

Hfhf, that the agreement on defendant's part amounted simply to one 
that plaintiff wtiuld have her consent to marry her daughter, and, as such, wu 
a valid agreement for breach of which plaintiff was entitled to damages. 

Htlfi, further that the fact that defendant proposed that her daughter 
should marry another man did n^ cottaUtUt^ a bftack by htr «f iMt ^MFI -if 
the agreement. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ft TUB SUPREMB COURT REPORTS. [VoL U. 

The defendant demurred to the plaintiff's claim siimmarised 
Pamhoda- above on three grounds, ist, because there was no allegation 

RAM PILL A I 

V' that the de£endant*s daughter was a consenting party to the 
MiiTTiJiTLLAi agreement between the plaintiff and the defendant, or that she 
was ever rea4y and wilting to marry the plaintiff, indly that 
the alleged custom enablidg a mother to have the power of 
donation in respect of her minor daughter, so as to entitle her 
to dispose of her in marriage without her consent was illegal 
and no contract founded on it could be enforced, and 3rdly 
that there was no allegation that the defendaiit was not 
ready and willing that the plaintiff should marry her minor 
daughter, or that the defendant in any way used her influence 
over her daughter to prevent her marrying the plaintiff, or 
that the marriage fell through owing to any act on the part 
of the djsfendant. 

The District Judge overruled the demurrer, and entered 
judgment for the plaintiff. 

The defendant appealed. 

Layard {Wiihern with him) for defendant, appelant. 

Ramanathan {{hrnhorat with him) for plaintiff, respondent. 
'^ : On February 17, 1887 the following judgment was delivered by 

BuRNSiDE, c. J. — This case, divested of all the irrelevant 
matters as to Tamil and European customs with regard to 
marriage and the right to donate a young girl in marriage, 
resolves itself into a simple question of contract. The plaintiff 
alleges that he agreed to marry the defendant's daughter and 
the defendant in consideration thereof, then agreed that her 
daughter should marry him, and he alleges that the defendant 
has refused to perform her part of the agreement in as much 
as she has agreed that her daughter should marry somebody 
else, and he claims damages. The defendant lias demurred to 
the plaintiff's libel on several grounds, ist that it is not 
alleged that the young lady herself was ready and willing to 
marry, and that any custom enabHng a mother to donate her 
daughter is illegal and no contract founded on such a custom 
can be enforced, 3rd that it is not alleged that it was in 
consequence of any act of the defendant that the plaintiff 
a>ttl4 not marry, the defendant's daughter. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JiUy 33, *93.] THR SUPRBItfi COURT RBFORTB. 53 

The learned District Judge has giveD us the very interest- Pammoda* 

RAMPILLAI 

ing resoit of his research into Homan Law, and the opinions of y. 

the eminent jurists on the point whether a contract can be ^tpT'^ppu Vai 
made for a third party without his consent so as to bind hinu — 
but I find no difficulty in saying that however interesting it liaa 
fiothing to do with the point before .us: It is idle now a days 
toiilsist that matrimony is merely a contract. In Ceylon the law 
does, not sanction the marriage of any' female without her 
consent. Mutual consent is of the very essence of Che matri- 
monial, ad well as of every, contract, and without it there can 
be no marriage. 

As I read it, the libel in no way controvences that principle. 
It simply alleges that in consideration that the plaintiff had 
agreed to marry the defendant's daughter, the defendant, her 
mother, agreed that she should marry him or in other words, 
that he would have the defendants consent to the marriage. I 
see nothing immoral or illegal or startling in such an agreement, 
there is much wordly visdom in it. The plaintiff sought to secure 
the consent of his tuture mother-in-law before he married her 
daughter, and if the plaintiff had alleged a sufficient breach, the 
libel would in my opinion have been as good as any other libel 
on contract, but I cannot find that the libel does allege any 
sufficient breach. It says the defendant refused and . neglected 
to perform her part of the agreement because she has proposed 
that her daughter should marry another young man. 

This does not seem to be a breach, ftoti constat, that the 
other young man will marry the young woman or that in 
that proposal the defendant had intended to withdraw her con- 
consent to the marriage with the plaintift, she might have 
agreed to consent to the marriage of her daughter with either 
of the young men and not broken her contract because her 
daughter elected to marry one and rejected the other, or it may 
be the other young man and not the plaintiff, will be the 
victim of defendant's perfidy. It was the duty of the plaintiff, 
upon the contract on which he has declared, to allege that 
by something the defendant has done, he has been prev(inted 
kom marrying the young lady who, he says, had agreed to marry 
him, or to show that he married her, notwithstaflding,. that the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



J4 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. if. 

Pammoda- defendant contrary to her agreement to consent had endea- 

y^ voured to prevent him, in either of which cases he would be 

MinriTPiLLAi ^'**^*1^ t^ such damages only as he had incurred by the de- 

fendant*s opposition. In the latter case it would be difficult 

to imagine what damage he could sustain beyond the pain 
which he could feel at being compelled to marry without his 
mother-in-law's consent, a source of anguish, however, which might 
be diminished even if he recovered damages against her. 

The libel is, therefore, in my opinion, bad for want of a 
sufficient allegation of breach of the contract declared on^ 
and the judgment of the District Court must be set aside 
and judgment entered for defendant on the demurrer with 
costs. 



Before Lawrie^ a. c. j. and Withers^ j. 

July 7 and ii, 1893. 

PERERA V. FERNANDO. 

[No. 3,085, D. C, Colombo.] 

Administrator — Right to be siwd by creditor 0/ deceased intes- 

tate-^Chapters XXXVUI and LV Civil PrtH-Mure Code--- 

Judicial settlement. 

The right of suing the administrator of a deceased inXestate accrues to 
tbe creditors of the deceased Immediately upon the f^nni of letters of ad* 
ministration. 

The Civil Procedure Code nowhere prohibits a creditor from suing an 
administrator or executor of a deceased, till one year has expired from the 
date of. probate or grant of letters of adiminist ration. 

Observations by Withers, j., upon the object and effect of the judicial 
settlement of an estate under Chapter LV, of the Ciril Procedure Coae. 

The facts material to this report sufficiently appear in the 
judgment of Withers, j. 

Wendt for plaintiff-appellant. 

Domhorst (VanLangenbei^g with him) for defendant-res- 
pondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On July II, the following judgments were delivered:— 
Lawrib, a, c. j. — When a debtor dies intestate those of 

his creditors whose cause of action survives await with anxiety 

the grant of tetters of administration. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 2a, ^93.] THE SUP«£|4B court EfiMJlTS* ^g 

The day after these are iasued the cradkors are entitled to Puieka 
sue the administrator in the same way as tbey would have Feknandq. 
sued the debtor had he lived. 

The plea that the law protects an administrator from actions 
to constitute and to enforce debts due by the intestate, that 
the law penrnts administrators to defy the creditors for a 
year is supported neither by common sense nor by common 
law. 

If there be indication m our Code of such a protection these 
sections shall be strictly construed, but none of them apply to 
this case 

I would set aside the judgment and would give judgment 
for the plaintiff with costs as suggested by my brother Withers. 

Withers, j. — For the "first time, I imagine, has been 
raised on behalf of an administrator, in resistance to an ad- 
mittedly just claim by a creditor against the estate of a deceased 
debtor, which is sought to be enforced by action, this very 
curious plea. 

** My year has not yet run out and you must not worry 
me with your claim until that year has expired,** 

Whether the plea was a serious one or not it has been 
seriously upheld by the court below. 

Mr. Dornhorst in support of the judgment contended that 
the provisions of our Civil Procedure Code with regard to 
testamentary matters read as a whole, constitute a law pro- 
hibiting a creditor from suing an administrator or executor 
for a debt due by the deceased till one year has expired 
horn the date of probate or grant of letters, or he argued at all 
events that a Court is competent and is required by these pro- 
>isiDos, if read aright, to stay all proceedings in an action of 
the kind pending the year of grace* 

I cannot hold with this contention for a single moment. 
I require to sete some law expressed in the clearest possible 
terms which destroys the creditors undoubted right to sue an 
administrator or executor within ^ year from the date of probate 
or grant of letters for a debt, which the deceased owed him . 
when he died. As this objection, howeveri has been takea 1 
feel bound to say a few words wit^ fi^gftfd tP tkf^ pnpvisiQiis 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



jg THE SUWUiME COURT RliPORTS. [Vol. U. 

Pekera of the Code which are supposed to legislate to this effect by 
Feri?ando. way of implication. 

Chapter XXXVIII of the Civil Procedure Code may be 

said to enact rules of procedure for the probate side of our 
District Court. 

It provides more particulary for the production and proof 
of wills, applications for probate and letters of administration, 
grants of probate and letters of administration revocation of 
probate or letters, the duties of executors and administrators 
compensation for service rendered by them, and the time when 
their accounts are to be filed. 

An executor or administrator has one year allowed him from 
the date of his grant to administer a dead man's estate, by or 
before which time he must file a true account of his adminis- 
tration. Chapter LV provides for compelling intermediate 
accounts before the year has expired and compelling final 
accounts, now called judicial settlements, after the year has 
expired, or after the revocation of grant or cessation of a grant- 
tees functions; an executor or administrator may on his part 
after his year is oiit apply for a judicial settlement of his 
accounts. The object of the judicial settlement is to bring 
the administration to a close and the effect of it is to conclude 
all parties cited to attend the proceedings and their privies 
in estate with regard to certain facts connected with the ad- 
ministration, 6f. ^., the correctness of items allowed to the 
accounting party for payments made by him {N. B.) to Creditors 
legatees, heirs, and next of kin also items allowed for nece8sar>' 
expenses incurred by him, and for services rendered by him, 
for interest charged against him, for money collected by him 
for* allowances made for decrease or increase of wasting or 
productive assets. 

Hence a judicial settlement, is of great advantage to an 
executor or administrator. It further enables him to prove and 
retain debts which the deceased incurred to him. 

It is further a mutual . advantage to the estate and the 
executor or administrator in that as regards mutual debts, that 
is, debts due from him to the estate or xfice versa^ the operation 
.oltbest^tuteof limitation is suspended t>etween the date of the 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



July 29, *93.J THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 5/ 

death of the deceased and that of the iirst judicial settlement Ferera 
—see Sect. 737 Civil Procedure Code. Fbrn^do. 

The counsel's contention really amounts to this — that a creditor 
whose debt an executor or administrator refuses to pay has no 
remedy open to him except to press for a judicial settlement, or 
defer his claim by action till a year from probate or grant has 
expired,' when meanwhile he may have lost his remedy by the 
statute of limitation. 

It is, as it ever was, the duty of an executor or adminis- 
trator to pay a creditor's admitted claim the moment it is 
demanded, if he has the wherewithal to pay it, and no 
preferential claim staitds in the way. 

Indeed, if he can do so, and does not do so within his 
year, he his liable by our Civil Procedure Code section 554 
to pay interest out of his own funds for all sums which he 
shall retain in his own hands after that period, unless he can 
show good and sufficient cause for such detention. 

I would set aside the judgment and give judgment to 
plaintiff against the administrator for the sum claimed, with 
costs to be levied against the administrator personally in the 
event of their being insufficient assets of the deceased C. Mathew 
out of which to levy them. 



Before Lawrie^ a. c. j. 

June I and 8, 1893. 

ARUNAKAM v. TAMPAIYA, 

[No. 723, C. R., Trincomalib.] 

Fishhig in the high seas — Disturbance of right to — Damages. 

A party enclosing a shoal of fish within a net in the high seas, although he 
has not actually captured them, has sufficient possession of them to entitle him 
to maintain trespass against one. who forcibly, prevents him from drawing his 
net and securing the said shoal of fish. 

The plaintiff had cast a net« in the high seas, and en- 
closed a shoal of fish, when the defendant forcibly and with 
intent to cause damage, assaulted the plaintiff and some of his 
men, and prevented the plaintiff from drawing his net, and 
securing the fish he had enclosed therein. Plaintiff also 

B 8 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



{$; .THE «art>llEME COU*T 1CEt»ORtS. [V'^ol. ti. 

Arunakam averrefl the Tarekoh of a custom Tegulating fishing, and prayed 
TAWpiwwX, for damages. 

Wendt for plaintiff-appellant. 

iUimpayo for defendant-respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On June 8th the following judgment was delivered by. 

Lawrie, a. c j.— In my opinion the case does not, turn on 
the alleged custom regulating fishing, but on the averment in 
the 3rd paragraph of the plaint that the plaintiffs net had 
been cast and a shoal of fish had 'been enclosed, when the 
def^hdkht unjustly and forcibly and with intent to cause plain, 
tiff wrongful loss and damage, assaulted the plaintiff and some 
of his men and prevented the plaintiff from drawing his net 
and securing the said shoal of fish to the pUinftiff 's damage of 
98 rupees. 

The law applicable is that laid down in Young vs. Hichens, 
6 Q. B. 606. 

If a fisherttian goes to fish in the High seas and another 
fisherman domes and fiAes be^de him and with tempting 
baits * *- '*' draws away the fish from the lines and nets of the 
fitit tottitr with ^a vii*w of catxihiiig them himself, damage may 
be tlohe, but there is no tort -or wrong, for the one had as 
much right to fish and to use fair and rectsbnable means to 
catch fish as the other. 

But if the rival fisherman layfe hold bf the nets of the 
first comer, or violently disturbs the water, and drives away 
the fish, and prevents the latter by force and violence firom 
exercising his occupation and calling, there is then a wrong 
done to him, and ^he is entitled to compensation in damages. 

In a caee teported in 2. Lorensz, p. 115, it was deci(ied 
that a fisherman, who had enclosed fish in a Madella, has 
^sufficient 't)ossess!6n to entitle him to maintain trespass against 
one who entered within the circle of the net and disturbed 
the fish. 

The decision in Vimferdtradten, p. 247, is to the ^ame eifect. 
Hefe the Idarned Commissidner h^s not given »ny opinion or 
judgment on the evidenoe on the diird and fotBtth tdsuee wb^her 
plaintiff h^ [enplds^ ^ny fiah wkhin his net, and ^wheUtor tfee 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



defendant wrongfully prevented the plaiotiC {pom (1lliBiiii|^ llife Arvkaham 
net and aecumg and laading Ihe fish* TAjufMivA. 

The evidence on this poini i& very covflMtiog. The plate* 
tiflf and several of his witnesses swear that the plaintifTs 
net was cast and bad eiK^osed a large shoal of fish, the 
defendants and their witnesses say thali the quarrel took 
place before the plaintiif had cast hie net« and tliab he« difl 
not either cast it or enclose any fish that day:* 

On carefully considering the evidence I hoU that tbe. 
plaintiff has not proved that he was prevented by the detsm- 
dant from drawing the net and seonritig any fish theneiti' and 
1 affimr) the judgment with costs^ 



Bbforb Lawriej a, c. j* and Withers^ j. 

July 7 and 11, 1893. 

PILLAl V. TAMBl, 

[No. 197, D* C, Tringomalie.]* 

Mendatory injunction — Erection of wall^Exclusion of light 

and air — Prencription — f:cichfis. 

In an action for an injunction restraining the defendant from erecting 
building, so as to prerent free acoets of> li^t and' air to plaintifif 'i> hoMfie^ and 
at«o for a nnandatory injunction ordering the defen^iant to, i^moye, a bi|ilf]ii|e . 
already erected. " ' " % 

Ifgid[ that the pUintifiF was- entitle to aa injuoctionMiostrakililP th» detedpmii 
from qoDstructing^ aqy furjtber building, so 03 to preyj^^ fr«e s^c^ss of hgb^ 
and air to plaintiff *s house. 

Held a*so that the plaintiff wa» not entitlbd" to » nmndatoi^ itafuiiciion 
ordering the delondani to remove thp building alr<^afly» oon^uctQ|d, ^e having . 
been guilty of laches in havini; allowed 3 or 4 years to elapse be/o^e applying 
for such rjnuedj-. * 

The facts sufficieotly appear ai- the judgment oiWvrasRSi j. 
Wmdt foe DjpfendBfiNappellaBfc. 
Dorr^trrst for Phuntiff>-respondent. 

Cur. ajdv., vultw 
On July II, the following judgmei^tis v^e. d||li,V9i:<*d : — 
Lawrie, a. c, j, — 1 agree to, the judgment p^opp^ed, by 
mx brptl^r \Vith^rs., 

Without a plan and without title deeds from wl)^l^, \jx^^ 
txMHNdaxi^ of th«> ptain|sira aindr d^ndw/^'s l|m4 <^ l?ft ^per- 
tained, I |kMVfl.Qi^ boeniablaj to ft^im % 9lQf^ i^a,.pf i|4nM^.^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. \U 

Ph*lai the plaintiff complaiiis. 

Tambi, I agree that we may enjoin the plaintiff to erect no ftirther 

building on the wall in question. 

I agree that we ought not to order the removal of any building 
existing at the commencement of this action. 

The learned District Judge thought he saw exactly what 
atterations were needed to restrict the building to its proper 
dimensions and site, but I do not understand his order. I 
should be sorry to be the Fiscal entrusted with the execution 
of this decree. 

Withers, j. — This is an action by the resident owner of 
a land separated by a wall and fence from a land occupied 
by the owner to recover damages, and to obtain injunctions 
mandatory and otherwise against the defendant on the following 
causes of action, the extension of the roof of a house built against the 
wall on the defendant's side of it so as to project over the 
plaintiflPs land and cause rain water falling on the projecting 
roof to drop upon her land and injure it. The act complain- 
ed of sounds in. damages in two Ways. The projecting 
roof is a trespass to plaintiflF's property and the water dripping 
from it into her land is another trespass to property. 

The other cause of action is the erection of certain 
buildings on the wall referred to, which the plaintiff 
alleges is owned by her, and the defendants in common 
so as to exclude from the plaintifTs house both light and air 

which would otherwise come to it. 

She docs not complain that anything done by the defen- 
dant has injured the party-wall .or is likely to injure it. 

No issue was settled, nor could one well have been as to this 
latter cause of action. Plaintiff does not say in her plaint that she 
has acquired an easement for the free access of light by grant or 
prescription, nor does she particularise what part of her house has 
su£fered from loss of light. 

It seems, however, that this obstruction of light and air 
complained of has been removed and properly removed by the 
defendant. 

As to the first cause of action the learned judge has 
preferred to believe the evidence led by the plaintiff. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Joly 99^ '93.] THB SUPRBMB COURT RBMRTS. 6X 

According to the plaintiff the defendant in 1889, or, according Pillai 
to another witness, in 1887 put up a new building against Tambt. 
the wall of partition raising the wall and apparently the new 
building with it, and so constructed the root on plaintiffs 
side of the wall, that the eaves projected over her land. Tliis 
is the continuing trespass for which she has brought her action 
in time, and for which she has recovered Rs. i b)* way Oj 
damages, an award from which she has not appealed. 

She has obtained an injunction restraining the defendant 
from building on the v^all, and a mandatory injunction order- 
ing the defendant to remove the new building so as to leave 
the wall of partition free, so that the roof shall not dis- 
charge rainwater on to the plaintiff's land, i asked Mr. Dornhorst 
if he could show me any authority for such an injunction as 
the latter one being granted in a case where a plaintiff has 
allowed 3 or 4 years to go by before coming to Court for 
relief. 

No doubt the Court can, and will where a plaintiff has 
neither acquiesced in the construction of a building injurious 
to his right of property, nor has been guilty of laches, grant 
a mandatory injunction, though the work complained of may 
have been completed before the filing of the BilK See Goodson 
V. Richardson, 43 L, J., Chan. 790, and Larant v. Hortpn, 59 
L. J., ch. 441. 

True it is that the plaintiff did not acquiesce in the mode 
of construction of this new building, but her laches in apply- 
ing to the Court for a remedy by injunction quite disentitle her to 
this mode of relief. That part of the judgment cannot there- 
fore stand. 

As to the wall itself the defendant to my mind has quite 
failed to prove that it was built within the liouts oi his land, 

I gather from the evidence that the wall stands on the 
limit line of the two adjoining lands, and a wall placed on 
the boundary line by either of two adjoining landowners be* 
comes property common to both of them by Roman Dutch 
Law— See Hubert Grotious, page 207 — which neither can in- 
jure or open without common assent, nH!ich more can neith^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Pn.bAr butbl on it so as to violate aoy cig^^ of hi^ neigbboiir Qither 
Tambi. in* the wall itself^ oc io the land, oq the other side o£ it. 

I would affirm that part of the order which enjoins the 
defendant not to construct any further building upon the party 
wall, vary the judgment by striking that part out of it which en- 
joins the defendant to remove the new building attached to the 
wall so as to leave the wall free and so as to prevent the 
roof of the new building firom projecting over the party-wall, 

i would give no costs in eitbier court. 



Before Lawrie^ a- c. j. 
July L3 and 15, 1893. 
PUHAITAMBT v. KAROLIS and others. 
[No. 15,032 P. C. Anuradhapura.] 
Oaming— Ordinance No. IK of 1889— Effect of flftoA^. 

The essence of the offence of gaming, as defined by the Ordinance No. 17 
of 16S9, is the existence of a stake for which the parties game; the Ordinance 
does not prohibit an assemblage of people to play gapies of chance, provided 
there be no stake. 

The accused appealed from a conviction on a cljarge of 
gaming under section 4 of Ordinance No. 17 of 1889, 

Domhorst for appellants. 

No council appeared for the respondents. 

Cui^ adv, vult. 
On July 15,, the following judgment was delivei:ed: — 

LAWitifiy k, c. j^— It seeing necessary to seinixid almost every 
PoHce Mttgietvate in the Island that the old law which made- 
gaming, or playing at any game (or pretended game) of chacce, 
has. t^<9en repealled. 

It is now lawful to play game» of chance- The legislature 
has chiuigod. it^ view of what is. unlawful E|n4 wor^y to be 
repeesBodand fuiipisbed. U no longer probijbiits games of ohaope but 
it pG9hibi|0 Rtaying a game; for a stake. In t}^ former law i^ did not 
msNttOP wh^tl^ ipoi^ was lost or wop ; nqw iA is of th^s essence q( 
thQQfiQS¥:e nptopl^thaA oioneyf shall belostor^iyon, buttliat mon^y 
shf#t^ st^k^d.Mere.^gai^iai^pja^ed^ As \ u^^d^rs^nd th^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Jtlly 29, *93.] THE SUPREME COimX RfiPOBTS* 

(NresenC Ordinance men may play even far motiey {nrovided it is 
not staked. They may play for money on credit, ad It wete. 

The essence of the offence as defined by the preselit Ordin- 
ance is the existence of a stcdce Ibr which the gamers geMe. 

Here there is no proof of gaming for a staJce. The accused 
are not prG^red to have broken the law which, as it now standSi, 
by no means prohibits an assemblitge of people to play games 
of chanfce, provided, as I said before, thote be tio stake. 

All the accused are acquitted* 

I must add that the Police Magistrate recorded evidence of 
previous convictions before he cobvicted-^a course wbidh he 
cannot but know is contrary to law. 

The procedure by which the seventh accused was convicted 
without trial, or charge, or plea, was an astonishing act of 
rapid injustice. He, too, is acquitted. 



Before Withers^ j. 
June 29 and July 6, 1893. 

WALKER 1;. PALANIYANDI. 

[No. 7,563, P. C, NuwARA Eliva.] 

Labouirr — Ordmanoes No, 11 0/ 1S6S and No. 18 of 1889 — 

Entry in CheekroUr^NoHee k> quit. 

In a DroMclition ubder SectioD ti of Ordinaiice Uo. 1 1 of 1965, of a 
Ubourer for quitting prosecutor's service without leave or reasonable cause 
or |)ii<evioiis wamrng , although there ww iSo cri<!cncc that the name of the 
accused had been entered in the Check-roll of the esute, there wma evtdtncfc 
that he had received rice from the prosecutor, who was. the superintendent 
x>f the estate, and it appeared that the aocuaed bad giyeh notice to the prote- 
cutor that he would quit the prosecutor's service and leave the estate on the 
gpoiiha that liis wagos w^re due and unpaid for over skty days from the ^pi- 
ration of fne month, during which such wages had been- earned.*- 

HM that this was sufficient evidence of the fact that accused regarded 
ktmsclf as a labourer on the estate #itfein the meaning of the Ordin^ce. 

The facts material to this report appear in the judgitieht. 

DomJiorst for accused-appeaMent, 

The respondeDt was not represeoted by coaniel. 

Cur. adv. volt 

Only July 6, the following judgment was delivered by 

Withers, j. — The accused has been convicted of qtiittfttg 

the prosecutor's service without leave, or reasonable cause, •r 

previous warning in breach of section 1 1 cf Ordinaa^ JNo. 

II of 1865. 



Pn.LA! 

V. 
TaMiii. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



64 



THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS, 



[Vol. ii. 



Walker 

V. 
Palann 

YANDI. 



The prosecutor deposes that the accussd was employed on 
North Pundaloya estate under him as a monthly paid labourer. 
When this contract was made, what was the nature of the service, 
or the hire, does not appear. Wliat the evidence does show 
is, that the accused, Palaniandy Kangany, was employed on 
that estate in other than domestic labour before he left it. 

There is no proof that his name was entered in the CheckroU 
of the estate. There is evidence that he had received rice from 
the prosecutor, who is presently the superintendent of that 
estate. 

Looking, however, to the notice received by the prosecutor 
from the accused that he would quit the prosecutor's service and 
leave the estate on the 26th of May, on the ground that wages 
for six days for the months of January to May, both inclusive, 
were due and unpaid on the 22nd of May, it cannot at least be 
denied that the accused regarded himself as a labourer on the 
estate at that time. 

Assuming him to be a labourer within Ordinance 11 of 
1865 or Ordinance 13 of i889» ^^^ ^his a reasonable cause 
for quitting service? 

No labourer shall be liable to punishment under these Ordi- 
nances and No. 7 of 1890, if the monthly wages earned by him 
shall not have been paid in full within sixty days from th 
expiration of the month during which such wages shall have 
been earned. 

Now, according to the notice, the accused did not complain of 
any wages being owed to him previous to January, 1893. If he 
claimed wages in January and February, and they wer ^ not paid 
when he left on the 26th May, it is clear he had reasonable cause 
for leaving service. 

The prosecutor admits that the accused has not been paid 
wages since January, but at the same time says that nothing was 
due to the accused, when he left, by way of wages. 

I cannot quite reconcile this with a statement of the prose- 
cutor*s which I shall presently cite. Again, not knowing the 
terms of the contract of service between the accused and his 
employer, I do not even see how it is possible to find that 
accused did in fact earn no wages in January and February. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug. 5, 93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 

If he was paid a lump sum per month, so long as the 
service was not determined by due notice on either side, he was 
entitled to be paid his monthly wages whether he worked 
or not. 

If, as is more likely, his wages, were payable at a daily 
rate, they were to be computed, says the Ordinance, according to 
the number of days on which the labourer is able and willing 
to work, whether provided with work or not by his employer. 

The prosecutor deposes thus : — ''Accused did no work as a 
labourer, he drew rice but never asked for work. Head money 
was due to him though he did no work," This is not quite the 
same thing as saying that he was able but unwilling to work 
according to his contract. 

'Again he deposes thus : — 4 months and 26 days wages would 
have been due to the accused, if I had not been ordered by the 
Court to retain them.'* 

I must infer the months referred to b^ January, Feburary, 
March, April, and the first 26 days of May, The 26th being 
the day the accused left the estate. That means, if anything, 
that though the accused did not work, he had earned wages 
during those months, but owing to an order of the Court, the 
prosecutor considered himself restrained from paying them to 
the accused. 

But the order referred to was received on the 9th of 
Noveml)er, r892, and only affected a sum which the accused 
was at that date entitled to receive. It did not prohibit his 
receipt of wages thereafter earned. 

A sum of Rs. 226 '5 1, then due and payable by the manager 
or superintendent of the estate to the accused was not to be 
paid to or received until further order. 

That was all the order prohibited. In these circumstances 
I feel bound to hold that the accused had reasonable cause for 
leaving the estate on the 26th of May last, and to set aside 
the judgment. 

The accused is acquitted and discharged. 



65 



Walkkr 

V. 

Palani- 

YANDI. 



B 9 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^ tHB S^Uj'IUiME COUHT KijPQKTS. [Vol. ii. 

Before WWiers^ j. 

June 29 and July 3, 1893. 

FERNANDO v. BEMAPPU and another. 

[N,0. $>999, P. C, PANAiJURA,] 

MischUf^^''4il0ct^ 409. Bmal Umk—rBonu fide belief of* accusod 
UioU the property ie hie own. 

The accused really believing that they had a right of way over the 
prosecutor's land} cut down a^ p^ion of a fence whidi he h«d put up to 
prevent their entering his lanci, in order to assert their supposed right of way. 

Jleldy that the accused were not guilty of mischief, as no person can be 
convicted of mi^bief who deals inj^irioiisly with, property in the luma Jide 
belief that it is his own. • 

The facts sufficiently appear in the judgment* 

Wetidt for the appellant^, 

D9mlior8t for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On July 3 the following judgment was delivered by 

Withers, J.— The judgment of the Police MagistrMe does 
not specify the offence of which, and the section of the Cpde qnder 
which, the accused h^ve been sentenceci to pay a fine of 
Rs. I each. Thisisavery necessary and proper requirement of the 
372nd section of the Crirnipal Procedure Code. 

That part of a judgment which complies with t}|is section 
should always prepede the rest which contains th^ ppipt for 
determination, the. decisiorj and. tl^e reasons for the decisioQ. I 
will tal^e it, however, for the purpose of my judgment, tl^at the 
accused have been convicted of the oflFence of mi^phief uodci; 
section 409 of the Penal Code, in thfit they, wjth th§ intent 
to cause the prosecutor wrongful loss or damage on some day, 
in May last, cut down two cubits of a ff.nce which t}ie. prosecutor, 
had put up as the djviding boiindary between his ^nd the 
contiguous lapd of the accused. The appeal is taken pn a 
point of law, which is, that the facts found by the magistrate 
do not constitute the oflfence of mischief as defined by sectipa 
408 of the Penal Code. 

I .think the appeal succeeds. 

The magistrate has found it to be clear that the defendants 
really believed that they had a right of way over the prose- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug. 5, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT RTPOfRTS. 1^ 

cutor's land at the point where they cot down the fence, Which rtr»NANi>o. 

he had put up to prevent their entering his Iknd, and fhat in TBemappu. 

doing the act complained of they were simply asserting the 

right of way which they honestly believed they enjoyed. On 

this finding I think the magistrate ought to have acquitted 

the accused. The magistrate went a little too far in laying 

down the proposition that it is not enough for a person charged 

with mischief to satisfy the Court that he had a bona fide 

belief he was exercising a right to do what he did do, but 

that as a matter of fact he should satisfy the Court that he 

was entitled to do what he honestly thought he had a right 

to do. 

I prefer to follow the principle laid down by the High 
Court of Allahabad, that a person cannot be convicted of com- 
mitting mischief who deals injuriously with property in the * 
bona fide belief that it is his own — See. Empress of India vs. 
Budh Singh 2 Allah. loi. 

Here the accused are found to have honestly believed that 
they had a right of way over the prosecutor's land, and they 
removed the obstruction put up by the prosecutor to prevent them 
from exercising that as5;erted right of way. The same Court had 
decided — and if I may venture to say so— rightly that the mere 
assertion of the right is not a sufficient answer to the charge* — See 
also judgment of Justice Clarence of 8th March, 1889, in c^fii^ 
7,192, P. C. Ohilaw. 



Bf.forb Lnwrie^ and WWiera^ j, j. 

February 24 and 28, 1893. 

IBRAHIM and Another v. TILLEKERATNE. 

[No. 34,620, D. C. Matara.] 

Dfcm-^KxeciUion fer jmri fjT debt—WiSlkHfr—ileci. 837 Ctvil 
Procedure Oode^ 

A iud^^ent creditor may not issue execution for la part of the debt, 
unless he waives his right to recover the rest, and each of several joint 
judtmcni creditors may not issue separate writs to recover a fractional share 
of tne debt due to them jointly. 

The material facts appear iq the judgment of Lawrib, ). 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



[Vol. U. 



Ibrahim 

TiLLEKE* 
RATNE. 



W^tdt for .appellani 
Domlwrst for respondent. 



Cur. adv. vult. 
On February 28 the following judgment was delivered:— 

Lawrie, j. — The policy of the law is to restrain judg- 
ment creditors from harassing their debtors by repeated 
seiiures and sales of property. 

Section 337 provides that when an application to execute a 
decree has been made and granted, no subsequent application 
to execute the same decree be granted unles the Court is satis- 
fied that at the last preceding application due diligence was 
used to procure complete satisfaction of the decree. It is con- 
trary to the spirit and letter of our law to permit a judgment • 
creditor to issue execution for only part of the debt, unless 
he waives his right to recover the rest ; and it is even more 
irregular to permit each of several joint judgment creditors to 
issue separate writs to recover a fractional share of the debt 
due to them jointly. 

Here the Proctor who held a proxy for hotli plaintiflfs 
appears now for the 2ml plaintiff only, because the other 
plaintiff has assigned his right to some one else. 

The second plaintiff does not pretend to have right to 
waive part of the claim. The motion for execution is made on 
the footing that some one else at some other time may come 
forward and get execution issued for the other half. 

In my opinion the application should have been refused. 

I would set aside the order of i6th December with costs. 

Withers j. — I agree. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug. St *93*] I'HB SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 69 

Before Latvrie^ and Withers j. j. 

December 20 and 29, 1892. 

WEERASIRI r. SANCHIHAMY, 

[No. loi V, D. C. Galle.] 

Tart — Actio personcUis moritur cum persona — 3 and 4 Wi/l 

IV c 42 — Wrong done by deceoited — Liability of legal 

representative. 

Per Lawrie j.— The law in Ceylon in regard to ihe liability of the 
legal representative of a deceastd for any wrong committed by him in bis life- 
limc is governed by the Act 3 Will IV c. 42. The legal representative must, 
however, under the Act be sued within six months of his uking upon himself 
the administration of the estate. 

Plaintiff sued the administratix of a wrong doer for damage 
alleging that the deceased '*not withstanding the protestations 
of plain tifi wrongfully deprived the plaintiff of the lateral 
support to the plaintiffs land and the building constructed there- 
on by wr(»igfully cutting almost perpendicularly the solid slop- 
ing ground immediately adjoining the plaintiff's land without 
leaving proper and sufficient support for the plaintiff's premiseis. 

Wendt for defendant appellant. 

DornJiorst for plaintiff respondent. 

Cur adv. vuli. 

On December 29 the following judgments were deHvered : — 

Lawrie, j. — The plaintiff alleges that he had right to 
lateral support for his land by the deceased intestate's land 
and also that he had gained by prescriptive possession an ease- 
ment of support for buildings. 

It was urged that the plaintiff had not proved that he 
had acquired this easement by prescription. It seems to me 
that the plaintiff proved that a wall and flight of steps 
on his land were in existence for at least 15 years prior to 
the committing of the wrong complained of, and I am of opi- 
nion that the plaintiff acquired the prescriptive right allegetl. 

But this is an action in tort. The plaintiff distinctly so 
puts it. He sues the administratrix of a wrongdoer for dam- 
age alleging that the deceased '* notwithstanding the protestations 
of plaintiff wrongfully deprived the plaintiff of the lateral sup- 
port to the plaintiffs land» aqd the building gopstructed there- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



70 THE SUPkEME COURT REtoRTS. [Vol. li. 

WEKRAsiRf on by wrongfully cutting' almost perpendicularly the solid slop- 

Sanchihamt ing ground immediately adjoining the plaintiffs land without 

leaving proper and sufficient support for the plaintiffs premises.'' 

This is an section which at English common law did not lie 
against a personal representative of a deceased wrongdoer. 

It is of the same class of wrongs as diverting a waterconrse 
or obstructing lights which are expressly mentioned in the 
text books as torts to which the rule actio jternonalis mori- 
lur cum persona applies. 

As the English Law of Administrators and Kxecutors has 
been introduced into Ceylon, I take it that the Act 3 and 4. 
Will IV c. 42 Sect, is law in Ceylon, but thougli that Act 
provides that an action of trespass can be maintained against 
the executor or administrator of any person deceased for any 
wrong committed by him in his life time in respect of his 
property ; atid that the damages to be recovered shall be pay- 
able by the admibistrator in order of administration as the 
simple contract debt of such person, the Act limits the liability 
of the administrator to be sued to within 6 months of theSr 
taking upon themselves the administration • 

Here the deceased wrongdoer dted in Felvruiry, t^^, and 
the action was not instituted until January, 1892. There 
exists here the peculiarity that the cause of action, the 
actual damage, did not arise either in the lifetime of the 
Wrongdoer or within 6 months of the taking of aduiltlistratioii 
of his Estate, but it is clear the Act of Will iv. does not give 
relief to the plaintiff, and that at common law the actfcn 
does not li^. 

I would on these grounds set aside the judgment and di^- 
miss the ^ctfbn with costs. 

WitHERS, J.—! agree In thinking that the ju<ignvent of th& 
Court bdow should be set aside, and the piaintiflf*s action d&- 
missed with costs, but I prefer to 'rest my opinion ori the oth^ 
point pressed upon us by Mr. Weodt, vi^ that phiiiitiif hag not 
proved what he averred^ that he had acquired a prescriptive 
right to the lateral support of the waH which according ko the 
learned judge fell in consequence of the intestJite's dealittg with 
the adjaccQt aoil of iAi own |)rc^]Nertyt 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Bfore Lawrie, a. c. j., and H^i7/i^/vs, j, 

June 6 and 9, 1893. 

SILVA f. PATE. 

[No. 1,391, D. Cm Galle,] 

Negli(/mce — BolHny horse — Burden of ptvo/^Evithnce: 

The mere happening of an accident does not throw on the defendant the 
»j»vtf of disproving negligence, nor does the mere, tact of. a horse bolting raise 
a prima f arte presumption of negligence. 

The facts sufficiently appear in the judgment ef Lawrie, a, c. j. 

Dharmaratrw for plaintiff-appellant. 

Donihorsf for defendant-respondent. 

On June 9, the following judgments were delivered : — 

Lawrie a. c. j,-=-It is well fixed law in England that a (daintif! 
in a c^asc like this must give some affirmative evidence of negli- 
gence on the part of the defendant. 

In Hammack vs. White (31 L.J,, C. P. 129) Erie, C. J. 
went so far as to say, ** I entirely dissent from the doctrine that 
the mere happening of an accident throws on the defendant the 
onus of disproving negligence." 

In Manzoui vs. Douglas (6 Q. B. D. 145) decided in 1880 
Lindley J. said that it cannot be said that the mere fact of bolting 
arises a prima facie presumption of negligence. Hprjses run 
away for all sorts of reasons and no such inference can be 
drawn from the mere fact of bolting. 

And in these cases and in Ootiop vs. Wood (29 L. J^, C. 
P. 333) it was decided thai if the cause of the accident be 
obscure, if the evidence adduced to prove negligence be equally 
consistent with no negligence^ there is not enough to leave tp 
the jury. 

Here in my opinion the plaintiff made out SLprimufacie case 
of negligence. His house was injured by the collisioo of. the. 
defendant's mail coach with his verandah posts, the coach wa^ 
driven off the road, the defendant's cpachman b^in|[ on the Ih>x 
holding the reins. 

It is proved that the horses had QOt, bpUp4« Th^ cpaf^hoi^Q 
says the moment of thc^ collision they^wejrjB. OQt gqififfypt, \^iiy. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



72 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

SiLVA then did he come to collision. The defence is that the eoach- 
Pate. "^^n had lost control of the horses. 

The learned District Judge's view of the evidence is that one 
of the horses took fright at something, apparently the crowd of 
people in the market, and becoming unmanageable both the horses 
got beyond control and ran off. 

I think this view of the evidence is too favourable to the 
defence. The coachman lost control, but I find no evidence that 
the horses were unmanageable, nor is there proof that they 
ran off the road in the sense that they ran off or bolted. 

The horses became restive at the sight of what it niiglit 
have been expected they would see, a crowd in the market, and 
what happened was just what would happen if a child or an 
inexperienced man, who could not drive, was on the box. The 
coachman had neither strength of hand or head to fit him for 
an emergency so likely to happen, and instead of keeping the 
horses in hand and on the road, he guided them and suffered 
them to take him and the coach off the road, and to knock 
down a bit of the plaintiffs house. 

It is an accident but an accident which could have been 
prevented had the driver had skill. The plaintiff took advan- 
tage of the comparatively slight damage done to get his house 
thoroughly repaired. He must bear part of that expense himself. 

He gets enough if we assess the damage at Rs. loo with 
costs of suit. 

Withers, j.— I agree in thinking that the judgment ought 
to be set aside. With every* deference to the learned District 
Judge who tried this case in tbe Court below, the facts dis- 
close one of two states of things both of which make against 
the defendant. 

Either the driver improperly excited the horses to such 
an extent that he was unable to control them, or he was incom- 
petent to drive the horses. 

The strong impression I must say left in my mind by the 
evidence is that he flogged the horses into a gallop which took 
them with such a violent swerve in the direction of plaintiffs 
boutique that he lost all Control over them. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug. 19, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 73 

However, the driver's version of the story is that these Silva 
horses had never before shown any alarm at a crowd of people Pate. 
in the market place, and that this was the first time they were 
frightened at a crowd. 

If they were so frightened as, to spring off with a sudden 
swerve and at a great pace so that no ordinary skilful driver 
could have pulled them up within the distance between where 
they started from fright and the plaintiffs boutique, I think 
that state of things would excuse the defendant* 

But in cross-examination the driver admits that the horses 
were not going fast when the tent of the coach came in con- 
tact with the roof of the plaintifTs boutique. That is incon* 
sistent with his statement that they became unmanageable and 
beyond his control. If they were not going fast why did he not 
pull them up ? This surely indicates incompetency. 



Before Lawrk, a. c. j., amd WitherSt ]• 

July II and 38, 1S93. 

RAMBUKPOTA v. MENIKA and others. 

[No, 10,944, P* C., Badulla.1 

Charge^Warrant of Commitment^-Jurisdidion of Police 

Court^Eiiccqte or reacue wider Hects. 219 and 220 

of the Ceylon Penal Code, 

The charge in a prosecution before a Police Court for escape or rescue 
under Sections 219 and 220 of the Ceylon Penal Code must disclose the 
nature of the offence for which the prisoner escaping or rescued had been taken 
into custody, it being competent to a Police Magistrate to try such a 
charj^e where the escape or rescue was from custody in which the prisoner was 
lawfully detained for an offence with which he was chari^ed, or of which he had 
been convicted, only when sHch offence was itself cognisable by a Police Court. * 

The warrant of commitment in the present case not disclosing the Magis- 
trate's juris<liction to try the charge on which the prisoners had be convicted, the 
Supreme Court held that even if warrants of commitment were open to amend- 
ment, the present one could not be cured in consequence of the defective nature 
of the charge in the case. 

Ramanaihan^ S.-G.^ moved the Court to exercise its 
power of review under section 426 of the Criminal Proce- 
dure Code. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On July 28, the following judgment of the Court wat 
delivered by 

* ^° r- T - 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



74 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

R.AiiBUKPOTA Withers, j.— The Solicitor-General applied to us to send 

Manika. for the Police Court Badulla Case No. 10,944 ^^ revision on 
the ground that the warrants of commitment of the prisoners 
convicted and sentenced to pay fines, or in default to 
undergo terms of rigorous imprisonment are bad on the 
face of them by reason of the fact that they do not disclose 
the Magistrate's jurisdiction to try the charge on which they 
have been committed, 

A copy of the warrant of commitment of the ist prisoner 
was handed to us by the Solicitor who gave us to understand 
that the warrant of commitment of the other prisoners ran 
in the same way. 

It appears on the face of this warrant of commitment that 
the prisoner was convicted of the offence of escaping from 
lawful custody under section 219 of the Ceylon Penal Code* 

Now it is competent for a Police Magistrate to try a charge 
of escape or rescue where the escape or rescue is from custody 
in which the person escaping or rescued was lawfully detained 
for an offence with which he is charged, or of which he has 
been convicted, only when such an offence is itself cognisable 
by a Police Court. 

The charge in the case under revision does not disclose 
the nature of the offence for which the ist prisoner was taken 
into custody, so- that even if a warrant of commitment is 
open to amendment, these warrants cannot be cured in this 
case in consequence of the defective nature of the charge on 
which all the prisoners were tried. 

Hence the conviction of the ist prisoner from escaping 
from custody and the convictions of (he other prisoners for 
rescuing the ist prisoner from custody, must be quashed, and 
all the prisoners released from custody. 

The Magistrate must take care to carry this order 
into effect with the least possible delay. . 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug. 19, 93,] THE aUPaSME COURT REPORTS. 75 

Before Lawrie^ ▲. c. j. 
July 6 and 13, 1893. 
PERERA I'. SADIRAPPU, 
[No. 8,816, P. C, Panadure.] 
Gajfiiing^^ake— Ordinance No. 17 of 1889. 

Under Ordinance No. 17 of 1889, the playing of gamcf of chance if 
lawful, provided there be no stake. 

Obser\a'.ions by Lawrie, A. c. j. on the hisfory of the gaming laws of Ceylon. 

Accused were found in a house throwing dice. There was 
no evidence that they were playing for a stake. The appeal 
was from convictions of gaming, and of keeping a common 
gaming house. 

There was no appearance of counsel. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

Only July 13, the following judgment was delivered by 

Lawrie, a. c. j. — The conviction in this case shows that 
it is again necessary to explain what games the Legislature 
in Ceylon has declared illegal. Before referring to the ordinances 
passed on this subject, it may be worth while to remember 
what the Common Law of England is as to gaming, i Russell 
on Crimes, p 608, states — "By the English Common Law the 
playing at cards, dice, etc., when practised innocently and as 
a recreation, the better to fit a person for business, is not 
at all unlawful or punishable as any sort of offence," 

I do not know if by Roman-Dutch Law, there was any 
punishment attached to gaming in Ceylon prior to the passing 
of the Ordinance 3 of 1834, but by that Ordinance the Legis- 
lature prohibited the playiqg at any game of chance, and 
the Ordinances 3 of 1840 and 4 of 1841 prohibitedgaming with 
any table, dice, cards, or any other instrument of gaming at 
any game or pretended game of chance. 

For the ensuing fifty years the law prohibited merely 
pUaying at games of chance, it said nothing about the losing 
and winning of money. That was not the essence of the 
offence. Chance was what made a game unlawful. 

In 1889 the Legislature abandoned the theory that playing 
a game of chance , was wrong ; and in lieu it prohibited 
playing a game for a stake. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



76 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS, [Vol. ll. 

Perera Where this idea came from I do not know; it was not 

Sadirappu derived from India, because in the Indian Gaming Act of 1867 
it was enacted that it should not be necessary in order to 
convict any person for keeping a common gaming house, etc.» 
to prove that any person playing at any game, was playing 
for any "money wager or stake." Notwithstanding the change 
made by the Ordinance 17 of 1889 therp still lingers in the 
minds of most Police Magistrates the belief that the law 
prohibits games of chance and what needs to be proved is only 
that cards or dies were us3i by those playing the game; 
but that is an erroneous belief. 

The law now is, that games of chance are lawful. It is 
permitted to throw the dice and to play a game of chance 
provided there be no stake. Playing for a stake, the posses- 
sion of which is to depend on the throw of the dice as the 
result of the game, is alone prohibited. 

Here in the case before me the accused were found 
throwing dice ; there is no evidence that there was any 
stake. They are, therefore, not proved to have broken the 
law. The convictions of gaming and of keeping a common 
gaming house are set aside and the accused are acquitted. 



Before Lawrie^ a. c. j. 

July 13 and 15, 1892. 

MURUGASEN v. PERERA. 

[No. 5,361, P. C, Chilaw.] 
Ordinance No, 14 of 1867 — Exemjdion from 
payment oftolL 

A certiBcate signed by a District Engineer "that the accompanying convey- 
ance of A. B. is employed this day (January 14) and until December 31, 1893, 
in the service of the Public Works Department, Chilaw, within 10 miles of the 
toll station of Madampe*' is not a sufficient certificate of exemption from pay- 
ment of toll under Sect. 7 of Ordinance No. 14 of 1867. 

The facts sufficiently appear in the judgmenf. 

There was.no appearance of counsel. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On July 15 the following judgment was delivered by 

LawriEi a. C.J,— It wa8t(?/m vires of th^ District Engineer 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug. 19, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 77 

to sign a certificate that the " accompanying conveyance of Mcjrugasen 
Mr. V. Murukasen is employed this day (14 January) and until perera. 
the 31st December, 1893, in the service of the Public Works """ 
Department, Chilaw, within 10 miles of the toll station of 
Madampe." 

First, it was necessary to identify the conveyance by a 
description by which it could be distinguished from others. 
This certificate was worded as if it were intended to exempt 
every carriage which Mr. Murukasen might use throughout the 
year. Such a general exemption could not legally be granted. 

Second, the District Engineer could not exempt a convey- 
ance on the ground that it was employed in the service of the 
Public Works Department. The Ordinance exempts vehicles 
only if they be employed in the construction of a road, bridge 
canal or ferry; and there is here no evidence that this con- 
veyance ever had been employed in the construction or repair 
of the canal of which Mr. Murukasen was supervising officer. 

Third, there is no proof that the canal was then being 
constructed or repaired ; unless it was, there was no exemption. 

But if I treat this certificate as one granted to Mr. 
Murukasen personally, he could not use it to pass a cart- 
load of other people who held no certificate of personal ex- 
emption. 

Again, this is not a case of a road officer who is bound 
to pass over his road repeatedly and who is fairly exempt from toll, 
it is not apparent how Mr. Murukasen can claim to drive along 
roads on duty. His duties lie in the canal. 

It is not proved that duty took him or his companions 
through the Madampe toll on the]25th April. If cannot be assum- 
ed that every supervising officer of the Public Works Depart- 
ment is entitled to drive with his firiends though every toll 
within ten miles of any part of his work, whatever that 
work is, and whether the officer be on pleasure or on duty, I 
refer the Magistrate to Vanderstraaten p. 179; Grenier 1874 
p. 48; I. S. C. C. p. 13 ; II S. C. C. p. 78. 

Holding that the certificate exempted neither the cart, 
ow Mr. Muruksiscn, n^r bis companions, I acquit th^ accu9^t 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



78 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. ^Vol. ij. 

Before Laivrie, k, c, j. 

July 13 and 20, 1853. 

JAVEN V. ALLOESINNO. 

[No 9,148, P. C, Panadure.] 

fiemtance to arrest—PoUcesectioiii 156 & 219 Ceylon Penal 
Go(le*-^cction 34 Qnminal Procedure Code, 

A Police Officer has no power under section 34 of the (Viminal Pro-edurc 
Code to arrest without a warrant parties engaged in committing an uOTray as 
defined in section iS'j of the Penal Code. 

The facts sufficiently appear in the judgment. 

Dornhorst {Pierls with him) for accused-appellant. 

Ramanathan, S-0., for respondent. 

Cur. adv, vult. 

On July 20, the following judgment was delivered by 

Lawrie, A. c. J. — To make a man liable under section 2x9 of 
the Penal Code for resisting his apprehension, he must have 
been charged with an offence or have attempted to escape 
from lawful detention. In this case the ist accused was 
fighting with two or three other men. He and they seem to 
have committed an affray as defined in section 156 and 
punishable under section 157 of the Penal Code. 

The m^n were known to the Police. The provisions of 
section 34 of the Criminal Procedure Code do not apply. 
Committing an affray is a non-cognisable offence and the 
Police may not arrest without a warrant. 

The offence under Ordinance 4 of 1841 of behaving in a 
riotous and disorderly manner in a public street is obsolete. 
It was superseded by the Penal Code. 

I am of opinion Jjiat the ist accused was justified in 
resisting his apprehension. He did little more than run away. 
He is not charged with causing hurt; if he had been, the 
case would, of course, have been different. I acquit him of 
the charge laid under section 219. 

It necessarily follows that the and accused must be acquit- 
ted of the charge under section 2^0. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug. 19, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 79 

Before Lawrie and Withers, j. j. 

February 14 and 28, 1893. 

MISSY NONA and her husband v. JAYESOORIA and another. 

[No. 35,936, D. C. Matara.] 

Cross — decrees — set off^Civil Pro. Code Sect, o4o. 

A decree obtained ajfainst the husband alone cannot be set-off agiinsl a 
decree ob*ained by the husband and wife against the decree-holder. 

A decree obtained against a perron as administrator cannot be set-off against 
a decree obtained by hitn personally. 

In case No. 35,936 Missy Nona and her husband had ob- 
tained a decree against Bastian Jayesooria and Charles Jayc- 
sooria. In case No. 35,010 Bastian Jayesooria the first defend- 
ant had obtained a decree against Gregoris de Silva, the 
husband as administrator and claimed to set off this decree 
against the decree obtained in case No. 35,936. 

The District Judge refused to allow the decree in 35,010 
to be set off against the decree in 35>93& 

The defendants appealed. 

Wcndt for appellants— A debtor cannot claim to set-off the 
debt due from him to two creditors against a debt due to him 
from one of them. But the case is different, where there are 
two debtors. The debt due from both of them may be set off • 
against a debt due to one of them. Civil Procedure Code 
Sect. 246 ; I. CaK 379. 

Although the plaintiff in 35,936 are the husband and the 
wife, the husband is absolutely entitled to the proceeds of the 
decree (Sect. 19, Ordinance 15 of 1876); so that the parties are the 
same. 

iJornhorst (Pciris with him) for respondents. 

The decrees cannot be set off. The decree obtained by 
Gregoris Silva is in his personal capacity, the one obtained 
against him is as administrator. The plaintiffs in 35,936 are not 
the defendants in 35,010. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On February 28th following judgment agreed to by Withers 
and was delivered by 

Lawrie, j,— In this case 35,936 Missy Nona and her 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



8o THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. 11. 

MissvNoNA husband Gregoris de Silva held a judgment against Bastian 
Jayesooria. Jayesooriya and Charles* Jayesooriya. In the case 35,010 Bas- 
tian Jayesooriya qua administrator of the intestate estate of 
Don Davit Dirasuriya holds a judgment against Gregoris de 
Silva, These decrees are not cross-decrees. Only one of the 
decree-holders in 35,936 is the judgment-debtor in 35,010. The 
illustration (b) of section 345 is exactly in point. 

It was argued that because the two judgment-creditors in 
35,936 are husband and wife, the decree must be con- 
sidered as one in favour of the husband only, that it is 
absolutely vested in the husband. 

It is true that any money recovered under the judgment 
would belong absolutely to the husband, but qua the debtor 
against whom judgment was obtained the wife was and is the 
judgment-creditor. 

Further, the judgment-creditor in 35,010 does not fill the 
same character in that action as he does in the action 35»936. 
In the former he is an administrator entitled to recover the 
assets of his intestate ; in the latter he individually is liable. 
(Explanation (a) of the same section 345 applies.) 

The order of the District Judge was in my opinion right 

• I am inclined to think that the appeal was premature. 

The learned District Judge rather expressed an opinion than 

pronounced judgment but no point i;vas made of that in appeal. 

Withers, j.— I agree. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug. 29, *93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORT 51 

Before Lawrie^ a. c. '. and Withers, j. 
June 30 and July 4, 1S93. 

DEEN i\ PULLE, 

[No. 160, D. C, Kegalla.] 

Jdi nor—Guardian ad litem^^ Claim to property seized in 

execution — Sections 247, 481 and 582 of the Civil 

Ptvcedure Code. 

A claim to property seized by the Fiscal in execution of a decree was 
Rtade. on behalf of a minor, by his uncle who, however, had not been appoin- 
ted his guardian. The claim was reported by the Fiscal to the Court, which 
after investigation, disallowed it. 

TTrW, that the minor was not a party to such investii^tion, and was not 
entitled to inttitute ao action under Section 347 oi the Civil Procedure Code, 
to have the seizure released. 

Semhle per Lawrie, a. c. J.— 

(i) Where the mother of a minor without being appointed his guardian 
od litem i\t% a plaint on behalf of the minor, and is afterwards appointed 
such guardian, the date of such appointment is the date of the institution of 
the case. 

(2) The order of a District Judge allowing a party to sue as guardian 
ud litem must disclose his Jurisdiction to make such order. 

The material facts appear in the judgement of Lawrie, a. c. j. 

Wendt for plain tiflf-appellant. 

Bawa {Senathiraja with him) for defendant-respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On July 4, the following judgments were delivered : — 

L.\WRiB A. c. J.— 'This case raises more than one question of 
interest in the law applicable to curators and to guardians 
ad litem and to next friends. 

Thoug'i the defendant who supports the judgment has 
not objected to this part of it, I take leave to say that the 
ruling of the District Judge that the action was brought within 
14 days of the rejection of claim is doubtful. This is an action 
at the instance of a minor by his guardian ad litem. The 
plaint was filed on 27th October but the appointment of the 
guardian was not allowed until the 2nd November. The mother 
of the minors confident of the success of the application she 
intended to make, gave a proxy and filed a libel as guardian, 
some days before she came before the District Judge to be 
clothed with authority. The date when she was appointed 
guardian ad litem ^ when ker plaint was accepted, when the 

B a 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Si THE SUPREME COfftT REPORtS. ^V'ol. 



11. 



Deen District Judge allowed summons to issue, seems to me to be the 
PiJLLE, date of the institution of the action, and, if so, it was out of 
time. The order of the learned District Judge allowing Jaya- 
nambu Umma to sue as guardian does not disclose his juris- 
diction. 

It was an order not made under section 481 and requires a 
petition by way of summary procedure and an affidavit. And 
even if it had been under section 481 it would seem as if the 
582 section prevents a next friend appointed under 481 from 
suing until he gets a certificate. Again the order of the District 
Judge was not one made under the ist part of section 582, 
because there it is enacted that no person shall be entitled to 
institute or defend any action connected with the estate for a 
minor until he has got a certificate of curatorsbip. 

But I presume that the District Judge allowed the appoint- 
ment under the latter part of section j8a, which enacts that on 
proof that the property is of less value than Rs. 1,000 or for 
any other sufficient reason any Court having jurisdiction may 
allow any relative of a minor to institute an action on his 
behalf although a certificate of curatorsbip has not been granted 
to such relative. 

But this order of the and November does not recite that 
on enquiry the District Judge found that the property was 
under Rs. 1,000 and that he had any other sufficient reason 
for making the order. 

Next, as to the merits of the case property belonging to a 
minor was seized in execution on a judgment against a stranger. 
The minor himself plainly had no status to claim or object. 

His uncle who had not been appointed his guardian by 
any Court and who was not his natural guardian, for his mother 
was alive, made a claim on his behalf and that claim was 
rejected. 

It is clear that an officious friend or any close relative 
acting as an amateur guardian cannot bind a minor. His 
success may benefit but his failure cannot harm him. Here 
the claim of the uncle was disallowed and fearing lest the 
order should be held to be conclusive against the minor, this 
action was instituted in his (the minor^s,) name. I affirm the 
judgment dismissing the action because the minor was not a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug, 39, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS, 83 

party to the claim proceedings. If he was not a party he was ^^^^ 

not bound and concluded by, the order passed, and it is only Pulle, 

on the looting that he would have been concluded after 14 ' 

days that the action is tenable, and as I hold that the minor 

would not have been bound, I hold that he had no cause 

of action against the defendants who are entitled to be relieved 

of an action brought by one whom they had frightened but 
not hurt. 

The action is dismissed. The costs of the defendant should 
be paid by the guaixlian. 

WiTHRs, J.— I agree with the decision of the Chief Justice 
dismissing the action with costs and ordering the guardian 
ad litem to pay those costs. 

The minor in whose behalf this action is instituted cannot 
be said to be the party against whom the order on the claim 
was made under the 244th section of the Civil Procedure Code, 
nor can the Court*s allowance of the institution of this action 
by the guardian ad litem or the application of the minor's 
mother to be appointed a guardian ad litem for the purpose 
of bringing this action be said to confirm the uncle's authority 
to make the claim on the child's behalf in the former 
proceedings, and thereby to constitute the child a party against 
whom the order referred to was made. 



Before LauTie, a. c. j., and Withers^ j. 
March 17 and 23, 1893. 
CORNELIS V. DE SILVA and another, 
[No. 54,611, D. C„ Galle.] 

Judgment hy default— Notice, want of— Setting aside Judgment-- 
Defence — Claim in Reconvention, 

A judgment by defeiul*. having been set aside, the second defendant was 
allowed to defend the action en the j?rounds that he had no notice of the pro- 
ceedings and that he disclosed the substantial defence of payment. 

The second defendant pleaded payment and also made a claim in recon- 
vention for damages accrued since issue of summons in plaintiffs action by reason 
of alleged illegal acts done by the plaintiff. 

Jield^ that tho ^efeoce of payment and counterclaim coqld not U pleaded 
togttheri f *» 

• Digitized by Google 



84 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS, [Vol. ii. 

CoRNELis This Thras an action on a mortgage bond. The action was 

De SiLfA, instituted In 1888 and judgment by default passed against the 
*■"" defendant on September 27, 1893. 

The second defendant, filed an affidavit setting forth that 
he had been absent from the Island and had had no notice of 
the proceedings and disclosing the substantial defence of pay- 
ment. He was allowed to defend the action, the judgment by 
default being set aside. 

The second defendant in his answer pleaded payment and 
aide madte a claim in reconvention for damages for alleged illegal 
acts done by the plaintiff. 

The District Judge gave judgment for the plaintiff but did 
liot adjudicate upon the claim in reconvention. 
The defendant appealed. 
Wendt for appellant, 
Dornhorst for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On March 22, the following judgments were delivered: — 

Lawrie, j. — This action on a mortgage bond was instituted 
in i888. Judgment by default was entered on September 27, 
1889. Writs issued and property was sold. 

In 1892 the 2nd defendant filed an affidavit setting forth 
that he had been absent from the Island and had had no notice 
of the proceedings and he disclosed the substantial defence of 
payment. 

The judgment by default was set aside and the 2nd 
defendant was allowed to defend. 

In his answer he pleaded payment of the bond and he also 
made a claim in reconvention for damages for alleged illegal 
acts done by the plaintiff since the judgment by default. 

At the trial the defendant's proctor acknowledged that he 
had no evidence to prove the alleged payment. The defendant 
then led evidence in support of his claim in reconvention. 

The learned District Judge in giving judgment for the plaintiff 
says he does not decide the claim in reconvention. And no notice 
of that claim is made in the formal decree, though this is incon- 
sistent with an express finding in the earlier part ol the 



Digitized by 



Google 



Auf . 19, *93.] THB SUPRBMB COURT REPORTS. 85 

jddgment that the defendant hsbd not -ghewa hi^ rif(ht to damages. Cormelis 

If the plaintiff had appealed he might have succeeded in pg Silva. 
getting the claim in reconvention dismiasedi but as the plaintiff 
is content with the judgment in his favour it is not necessary to 
8a> more than that the District Judge exercised a sound dia- 
cretioa in refusing to give judgment in reconvention. 

The judgment is affirmed with costs as suggested by my 
brother Withers, j. 

WiTHBRS, J.— The defendant was by this Court considered to 
have purged his default and let in to defend the action on the 
mortgage bond. 

He has not only put in a defence but a claim in reconven- 
tion for damages accrued since issue of summons in plaintiffs 
action. 

This I consider he had no right to do. A case where a 
defence and counterclaim could not justly be separated is 
quite conceivable, as for instance where a creditor has received 
more money than is necessary to liquidate his claim, and 
withhold, the balance from the debtor. 

The circumstances of this case however are quite different. 
As a matter of fact the defendant had no defence whatever to 
make. 

I would affirm the judgment giving plaintiff, however, in the 
Court below no more than the costs incidental to his action. He 
should in my opinion have moved the Court to strike out of the 
defendant's answer so much as related to the claim in recon- 
vention. 

He will have his costs in appeal. 



Before Burnside^ c. j., WWiers and Lawrie^ j. j. 

January 24 and February 3, 1893. 

FRANCINA V. NICHOLAS and others. 

[No. 1,084, ^* ^'j Galle.] 

Fraudulent Conveyance — Deed held void in one suit^ Validity. 

A deed held to be fraudulent in a suit does not i^iio facto become 
void as against those who were no parties to the suit. 

This was an action in ejectment to recover from the defendants 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



86 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

Francina a certain land caUed «*Punchywatte;' The plaintiff based her 
Nicholas, title to the land on a conveyance by the Fiscal dated October 
"""^ 27, x89i. The judgment in execution of which this property was 
•old was pronounced in June 18, 1868. Prior to this date viz. in 
1857 the execution-debtor had sold this garden to one Gunatilleke 
Mohandiram who in 1871 gave it to the first and second defendants 
the nephews of the execution-detor, who prevented the plaintiff 
from taking possession of the land under the Fisc^rs conveyance. 

The plaintiff impeached the conveyance of 1857 to Guna- 
tilleke Mohandiram as fraudulent and brought the present 
action to gain possession of the land. 

The District Judge held that that conveyance was not 
in fraud of creditors and dismissed the plaintiff's action. 

The plaintiff appealed. 

Dornhart for plaintiff-appellant. The deed of conveyance 
of 1857 is fraudulent. So it was held in a previous suit. The 
object of the execution debtor was to defraud his creditors. 

Seneviratne for first and second defendants. The deed 
cannot be fraudulent as regards this particular creditor for 
the debt on which this action was founded was not in exis- 
tence at the time of the conveyance to Gunatilleke Mohan- 
dirum. The mere fact that in a previous suit this deed of 
1857 was held invalid to pass certain property does not ipHo 
facto make it utterly null and void. 

Wendt for third defendant, lessee of the first and second 
defendants, rested his case on the grounds urged by Mr. 
Seneviratne. 

Dornhorst in reply. A deed once held to be void can 
have no effect whatever. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

BuRNSiDE, c. J. — This appeal should be dismissed. There 
is no room for the contention made at the bar that because 
the deed of 1857 was impeached in one suit, it therefore was 
void against the plaintiff, who was no party to that suit ; but 
apart from this it seems to me sufficiently proved that defen- 
dants had acquired a prescriptive possession by occupation, 

'Withers, j.-— This i§ ^n ^c^ipn ip ejectment to r^cgver 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Aug. 29, '93.J THE SUPREME COURT RE^OftTS. S^ 

from the defendant with damages a certain land called **Punchy- Francina 
watte.** Nicholas. 

The plaintiff does not say she was placed by the Fiscal # 
in possession of the land at any time after purchase and, 
notwithstanding the usual claim put in by her to a prescriptive 
title, I take it that she herself has never had possession of 
the premises. 

Plaintiff has to prove that B. Don Carolis De Silva wasowne^ 
of the premises at the date of the judicial sale which occured in 
January 1891. She leases the title to the premises on a conveyance 
by the Fiscal dated 27th October, 1891, she having bought them at 
a judicial sale in execution of a judgment against one B. Don 
Cornelis De Silva pronounced so far back as the i8th June, 
1868, in favor of the plaintifTs husband, who appears to have 
died in 1889 in which year the plaintiff was allowed to come 
in as execution creditor in the place of her husband deceased. 

B. Cornelis De Silva sold this garden in August 1857, 
to one Philip Wijesinghe Gunatillcke Mohandiram who in July 
1871 gave it to his nephews including the first two defendants. 

Between 1857 and 1871 in execution of a judgment against 
the said B. Cornelis De Silva a dwelling house was sold and 
bought by first defendant herein. This the parties according 
to the judge's note admit was included in the conveyance to 
Gunatilleke of August 1837, f^^m Cornelis De Silva, a sale 
that was impeached and set aside in July 1871 on the ground 
that the conveyance of 1837 ^^ ^^ fraud of the creditors of the 
vendor Cornelis De Silva. 

This house was not included in the deed of gift from 
Gunatileke to the first and second defendant. 

I do not see how the impeachment of that particular 
sale effects the premises in question. The parties to that 
suit were a judgment creditor of Cornelis De Silva, his 
vendee under the conveyance of 1857 the said Philip Gunatileekc 
and the ist defendant, whose title deed of July 1871, recites 
that impeached deed of 1857. 

If that had been a creditor's suit to have that conveyance 
set abide as a fraudulent one and the property declared 
available for the creditors of Cornelis De Silva^ who coul4 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



88 THE SUPREME COIJRT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

Francina come in at any time and prove in bankruptcy, this might 

Nicholas, have availed the plaintiff whose husband was an execution- 

"""" ■ creditor of CorneUs De Silva, when that conveyance was 

impeached in a contest with the defendants who claim as 

assignees of Philip Gunatileeke. 

As it is the result of that isolated action by an individual 
creditor in his own interest it cannot enure to plaintiff. 

But I am quite content to affirm the judgment on the 
ground that the first and second defendants being some of 
the donees under the deed of 1877, have shown themselves en- 
titled to a decree of prescriptive title to the premises gained 
by them from that date. 
Affirmed with costs. 
Lawrie, j. I agree. 



Before BurnBide^ c. j., Lawn'e and Withers, j. j. 

January 24 and February 10, 1893. 

FERNANDO v. JAMEL and others. 

[No. 21,5, D, C, ChilAw.] 

Defective plaint — Fresh action — Period of prescription a fid 
limitation — Civil Procedure Code Sects. 247, 406, 407. 

On a plea of non-joinder an action underr Sect. 247 of the Civil Procedure 
Code was withdrawn and a fresh action brought. 

Held that Sect. 407 of the Civil Procedure Code upplted and that the 
plaintiff was bound by the period of limitation of fourteen da3'S as recited in 
Sect. 247 as if the first action had not been brought. 

The plaintift whose claim to property seized had been 
disallowed, brought an action against two defendants, viz., the 
3rd and 4th of the present suit to have the order in the 
claim case set aside. The defendants having pleaded non -join- 
der the District Judge under section 406 of the Civil Proce- 
dure Code allowed the plaintiff to withdraw that action and 
to bring a fresh one against the original defendants and five 
others. But the fresh action was not brought within fourteen 
days of the decree disallowing the claim as required by sec* 
tion 247 of the Civil Procedure Code. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Sept. 13, 93.] TriE SUPREME COURT kEPORT. 89 

On objection taken by the ist, 2nd, 5th, 6th, 7th defendants Fern \xdo 
the Court dismissed the plaintiff's action. j ^Vl. 

The plaintiff appealed. 

Wendt for appellant. 

The original action having been brought within fourteen 
days and this, being as it were, a mere continuation of the 
former one, must be held to have been instituted within four- 
teen days. 

Dornlwret^ for respondents, referred to section 407 of the 
Civil Procedure Code, according to which section, when a fresh 
action is brought, the plaintiff is bound by the law of pre- 
scription and limitation as if the first action had not been 
brought. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

Od February 10, the folUowing judgment, agreed to by 
BuRNsiDE, c. J. sind Withes, j. was delivered by 

Lawrie, j. — Though the Court on October 8, 1891, 
allowed the plaintiff to amend the plaint, the real nature of 
the order was to allow him to withdraw that plaint and to 
substitute another. The District Judge could do so under 
section 406 of the Procedure Code if on the application of 
the plaintiff the Court was satisfied that the action must fail 
by reason of a formal defect, and what the District Judge 
then did was virtually to allow the plaintiff to withdraw the 
action against two original defendants with liberty to bring 
a fresh action against those and other five defendants for the 
subject-matter of the action. 

That the plaintiff and the Court regarded this as the true 
nature of the order is apparent from the fact that there was 
a fresh plaint filed on a new stamp, on which summons issued 
which were served on all the defendants, and that answer and 
replication are thereafter filed. 

Section 407 of the Procedure Code enacts that in any fresh 
action the plaintiff shall be bound by the law of prescription 
and Hmitation in the same manner as if the first action had 
not been brought. 

The judgment dismissing this action must therefore be affirmed 
with this variation, that the words **but he is at liberty to 

B la 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^6 THE SUi'kEME coukt kEPofets. [Vol. ii. 

Fernando bring another action in ejectment for the land" be deleted. 
Jamf.L. If these words are intended to give a right which the 

plaintiff would not have had without them, the order is ulftn 
vires of the Court, if the right is one which the^ plaintiff has 
independent of the reservation, the words are unnecessary. 



Bepoue LaivHey a c. j., Withers and Brotvne^ j. j., 

August 11 and 15, 1893. 

WIJEYWARDANE v. MAITLAND. 

[No. 225 D. C, Ratnepura.] 

Claim in Execution — Seizu)^ of mortgaged property — Claimant's 
Lien— Civil Procedure Cod^y Sects., 282, 243, 246 and iS2. 

The Plaintiff, against whom an order under Section '244 had been passed, 
brought his action aa mortgagee of certain timbea-, without possession^ to have 
it declared that the said timber was not liable for seizure and sale under de- 
fendant's writ. 

It was argued on behalf of the plaintiff-'iippelUnt that, as mortgagee of the 
timber, he was entitled to his prayer. For the defendant itwas contended that 
no binding contract of mortgage over the timber was made out, but taking 
that as proved, it was further contended that the right under the contract was 
not a right that could defeat execution under defendant's writ. 

//eld, that it never was the law before the Civil Procedure Code that mort- 
(raged property could nat be sebed and sold under a writ of ^' /a for the 
levy of a money judgment, and that the law is still unaltered 

//tld also, that if a claimant has goods of the debtor under a right of Hen. 
the judgment-creditor mU4t first satis y the lieft btibrc he takes the property 
In execution. 

I/M, also that an unsuccessful claimant has no right, under the circums- 
tances, to bring an action under Section 24J. 

ObMrvations by Browni, j. on the current of authorities. 
Domliorst, {Morgan and Wcndt with him) for plaiatiflf 
appellant, 

Sampayo for defendant'respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On August 15, the following judgments were delivered 
Lawrie, a c. j.— I assume that the plaintiff holds a valid 
mortgage over the ebony. 

Following the decision of this Court reported in Rama- 
nathan, 1872, p. 23, I am of opinion that the mortgagee has no 
right to prevent a sale in execution on a judgment against 
the mortgagor. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^t. 13, *93.i THE SUPRRMC COURT REPORTS. 9I 

I am humbly of opinion that the injunction in Whittaira Wijey. 
case ought not to have been granted (IV. S. C. C. p. 23 and ^z. 

Wendt p. 217.) MAIT1.AND. 

There is no provision in the Civil Procedure Code which 
gives a mortgagee right to prevent a sale in execution of the 
mortgagor's right, title and interest in the property mortgaged. 
In this matter no distinction is drawn between mortgages of 
moveable and mortgages of immoveable property. 

We cannot be influenced by considerations whether the 
mortgagee will have a preference on the proceeds of the sale* 
It may be that as the plaintiff holds no judgment on his 
mortgage the 23and section of the Code has taken away the right 
which the law» as expounded in the judgment in Wendt p. 217, 
IX. S. C. C, p. 109, allowed to him. 

I give no opinion whether the mortgagee could have obtained 
or could even now obtain an order under section 246, 

He has not asked that the seizure should be continued 
and the property sold subject to his mortgage : when such a 
motion is made the Court will consider it. 

I would set aside the judgment including the order that 
the seizure be released. The action must be dismissed with 
costs. 

Withers, j. — What is the right to the property in dispute "^ 
claimed by the plaintiff in this action and what was the right 
claimed to the property when first seized, which was the sub- 
ject of the adverse order giving rise to the present action.- 
These are questions I find difficult to answer. No right is. 
specified in the plaint as the subject of determination in this 
action, and as to the right referred to the Fiscal and referred 
by him to the Courts we know no more about it than what is 
said in the 7th paragraph of the plaint in somewhat ambiguous 
language. I have no doubt that under the 247th section of 
the Civil Procedure Code a claimant or objector can only 
seek to establish in the action thereby permitted to him the 
very same right to the property under seizure as was the sub- 
ject of the adverse order within 14 days of which he bis C9{i)r 
f^^ \9 Ukc the KCti90 Rll9We4 MWf 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



9^ THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [^ol. H 

WijKV- The case was argued as if the right claimed in this* action 

^., was the nght of a mortgagee of the timber without possession. 
Maiti and. By ihe other side it was contended that no binding contract of 
mortgage over the timber under seizure was made out by the 
plaintiff, but, taking that as proved, it was further contended 
that the right under the contract was not a right that could 
defeat execution under defendant's writ. 

What is meant by the words right to property in the 
947th section of the Civil Procedure Code ? For the meaning 
we must go to the 243rd section which declares that a claim- 
ant or objector must adduce evidence to show that at the 
date of seizure he had some interest in, or was possessed of 
the property seized. Now the plaintiff was clearly not in 
possession of the property seized. Was then his interest in 
it such as to defeat execution ? It surely never was the law 
before the Civil Procedure Code that mortgaged property 
could not be seized and sold under a writ of Ji fa for the 
levy of a money judgment. 

Has it been altered by the Code? 

It was contended before us, that it was, if not explicitly, at all 
events implicitly altered by the provisions of the 246th section 
of the Civil Procedure Code, in view more particularly of the 
decision of the Court, that a mortgagee cannot follow moveables 
which have passed to a third person under a valid title and 
that it is only a decree holder with a writ out for levy of 
an unsatisfied judgment who can claim concurrence in the 
proceeds of the levy under a third person*s writ. 

The 246th section enacts that if the Court is satisfied that 
tlie property is subject to a mortgage or lien in favour of 
some person not in possession and thinks fit to continue the 
sequestration or seizure, it may do so subject to such mort- 
gage or lien. From these words we are asked to draw the 
inference that a Court is bound to release mortgaged property 
rather than continue the seizure. I admit that the language 
fairly suggests that contention, but I cannot admit that a 
radical change in the law can be made giving a new and 
unheard of advantage to the conventional mortgagee of property,- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



V. 

Maitlavo. 



Sept. 13, *93.] THR SUPREMK COURT REPORTS. 93 

eMfiopt by express language or by language which cannot Wijbt* 
possibly adnut of any other coastnicbon. 

Having regard to the provisions of the two prior sectionsi 
344 and 345 what must guide the Court in considering 
whether it shall or shall not release property seized at the 
instance of an objector or claimant is the fact of possession 
at the « date of seizure. 

If property is in possession of the debtor himself as his, 
own or in a third party's possession on account ot the 
debtor the Court shall disallow the claim under section 245. 

If the property is not in the possession of the debtor 
or of some one for him as trustee, tenant, or other person 
paying rent to the debtor, or if the property is in the 
possession of the debtor but not on his own account or as 
his own property, but on account of or in trust for some 
other person or partly one and partly the other, for the 
reason stated in the claim or objection, a reason, that is 
"by way of some interest" in the property under seizure, 
then the Court shall rrfease the projierty from seizure in 
whole or in part as the case may be (section 344.) 

The claimant's interest in or possession of property must be 
surely such as takes the property out of a writ of fi fa. For 
example, it a claimant has goods of the debtor under a right 
of lien, the debtors interest cannot be seized or sold as long 
as the claimants right to keep possession of the goods re- 
mains. The judgment-creditor must first satisfy the lien be-, 
fore he takes the property in execution, 

I apprehend the section 246 to mean that in certain spe- 
cial circumstances, which must be considered when they arise, 
a Court may allow the seizure to remain subject to a mort- 
gage or lien in cases when the claimant is not in actual pos- 
session of the property, because he may not have lost his 
right to possession. 

I cannot bring myself to think that the Code authorises 
a Court to release property seized at the instance of a mort- 
gagee who has no right to have the goods mortgaged in his 
possession. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



94 THB SUPREME COURT RRPORTA. [Vol. U. 

WARDAMs. '^^^^ being my opitrioo^ it become ucuiecessary tocoDsidar 

^* the points argued as to ordinary mortgagee's remedies or the 
AiTLAND. q^^J|QJ, whether plaintiff had any mortgage right at all. 

As the removal of the seizure was a remedy conaaquent 
only on the plaintifTs establishment of a right to the proper« 
ty, which has failed, the learned Judge was wrong to direct the 
removal of the seizure and this part of his judgment must be 
expunged. With this modification I would affirm the judgment 
with costs. 

Brownb, j.^The current of authority in precedents as respects 
the right of a mortgagee to interfere in the sale of the mortgage 
by an unsecured creditor runs thus. After the decision in 
Ledward's case (i Moore P. C N. S. 386) that the mortgagee had 
prior right of payment out of proceeds, the Collective Court 
(Ramanathan 1872, 24) held that the mortgagee had no right to 
demand the stoppage of the sale by the execution creditor. Nine 
years thereafter Clarbncb j. sitting alone (4 S. C. €• 23) allowed 
an injunction to restrain the sale of coffee crop when asked to do 
so by a mortgagee to whom it had been also covenanted by the 
debtor that crops should be given to him to be cured and shipped; 
and in the next year (Wendt 217) Clarencb a. c. j« and Dias j. 
held that the order was right. It does not appear from the 
reports whether the judgment reported in Ramanathan (nt sup) 
was cited in argument, but no doubt the ruling was then made 
in cases in which there was, as I have said, something more than 
the mere hypothec granted by the mortgagor. In 1890 (g.S.C. C, 
III) Clarence j, while upholding the right of the mortgagee to the 
proceeds after sales, again held << the mortgagee has the right to 
prevent the goods from being sold away from him " though the 
goods having been already sold, the right was not then in question. 
The decisions in 9 S. C. C. 127 and i S. C. R. 213 were pronounced 
in cases in which the mortgagor had sold the moveable property 
before the mortgagee took any action, and leave untouched the 
question which on the argument seemingly now arises for 
decision. 

I agree with my brother Withers, however, that on the relief 
ftsHed b^ the plaint the questioi^ ({oes t\qt anse« The prajrer is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Sept. 13, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT kfiPOktS. 



9S 



that the property be declared not liable for seizure and be released Wijev- 
from seizure, and I fail to see that plaintiff has made out any ^.^ 

right in law to have the prayer granted. Had he prayed an MArrtAND. 
injunction restraining the sale, until, say, he could have a 
hypothecary decree entered in his favour so as to bring himself 
within the protection of section 35a Civil Procedure Code as 
interpreted in 9 S. C. C. 203, or had he for such or any other 
cogent feason, at the time of preferrii^g his tlaim^ moved the 
Court under section 246 to make in his favour the order thereby 
cootempUtedi it is possible that under the previous precedents 
of Clarbncb j's decisions, he would have succeeded therein, 
unless it should be held that section 232 protected a mortgagee 
without decree from the rigid rule of section 352, 

His right is to be paid and paid the first out of the pro- 
ceeds sale, and, as explained in the decisions in a measure, to 
control the time of sale till this can be done; but it does not destroy 
the right of the onsectired creditor to be paid out of the surplus 
ulei and to sel^e and sequester for that purpose. 



Before Withers j. 

August I and 7 1893. 

JONKLAAS, V. PERERA. 

[No. 4821 Add, P. C. Colombo.] 

Oamhif) — Ordinrthce No. 17 of 1889 Spf'ta. 7, 8 rtfid 10 — Crimhinl 

Ptvcedurp CttdeChap, V. — Inst ntmefilB for Oaming— 

Arrest of Arcufted — Presumption under 

the Ordinance, 

If Instruments for f^min^ are seized in a bouse, admittedly a private house, 
it is incumbent on the prosecution to prove that the bouse was a common gaming 
place. 

The discovery by the Police witnesses of instruments for gaminj^ inside the 
house, and the escape therefrom of persons seen therein do not constitute a 
presumption under the Gaming Ordinance. Such presumption can only arise when 
persons or instruments fur gaming are fotuid in a place visited by the Police 
Mapsim?e himself, under section 8 or by a Police Officer under a warrant in 
terms of Sect. 7. 

A Police Magistrate can visit a house or issue his warrant to a Police 
Officer only in the circumitaoccB mentioned in the 7tb and 8tb sections. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



96 tHE SUPREME COliRTREPORtS, ' [Vol. ii. 

JoNKLAAs Bamnnatluin, S.-O.^ for appellant. 

Pbrb'ka. SeneveraUie for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On August 7, the foUowing judgment was delivered:— 
Withers, j. — The accused have been acquitted of an offence 
charged against them under the Gaming Otdinance, No. 17 of 1889. 
Mr. Solicitor-General appeals from that acquittal. 

The house in which certain instruments for gaming were 
seized and in which* the accused were arrested for unlawfully 
gaming there, being admittedly a private house, it was incumbent 
on the prosecution to prove that the house was a common gaming 
place. It was argued by Mr. Solicitor-General that reading 
the Ordinance, 17 of 1889, in connection with chapter V. of the 
Criininal Procedure Code, the discovery by the Police witnesses 
of instruments for gaming inside the house and the escape there- 
from of persons found and seen therein on the entry of those officers 
for_ the purpose of arresting any one betting or playing a game 
there for a stake constituted a presumption under the Gaming 
Ordinance, unless the contrary was proved, that the house 
was a common gaming place and that the persons found in it were 
guilty of unlawful gaming. 

Having had frequent occasion to read and interpret tills 
Ordinance I entertain no doubt that such presumption can only 
arise ^hen persons or instruments for gaming are found in a place 
visited by the Police Magistrate himself under the provisions of 
section 8 of the Gaming Ordinance or by a Police officer (or 
other person named therein) under a warrant issued by a Police 
Magistrate under the provisions of the section 7 of that Ordinance. 

As I read the Ordinance, it was the intention of the legislature 
that the Police Magistrate should visit a private house under the 
Gaming Ordinance or issue his warrant to a Police Officer or other 
person to visit and search a private house only in the circiun- 
stance mentioned in the 7 and 8 sections of that Ordinance res- 
pectively, he himself being entitled to visit it in the cases stated 
under the 8th as well as under the 7th section. For these reasons 
I think that the judgment of acquittal in this case is a right one« 

Affirmed. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Sept. 20, '93.J THE SUPREME COURT REPORT. ^ 

Before Withers j. 
August 24 and 31, 1893. 

MA^AR i\ KIRITHATKANDU and another. 

[No. 873 C. R, Trincomalie.] 

SefTttude — OverJianging brandies. Co-owners — Injunction — 

Damages, 

An owner of a land over which a tree overhangs has the right 10 a decree 
ordering such tree to be cut down, although such owner be tenant in common 
with defendants of the land supporting the tree. 

Semhir. per WiTHFRj;. j. — The joint owner of an overhanging tree has n« 
right to cut it down himself except with the consent of his co-owners. 

Sampayo for Defendants-Appellants. 

Seneveraine for Plaintiff-Respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 
On August 31, the following judgment was delivered by 
Withers, j. — The servitude of an overhanging palmyra- 
tree shedding its leaves and dropping its fruits on the ad- 
joining landowner's bakery has not teen proved, if indeed an 
easement of the kind could be acquired by prescription. 

The difficulty in the case is caused by the fact that the 
owner of the land with the injured bakery on it is also co- 
owner with the defendants of the soil on which the over- 
hanging palmyra tree stands. He, therefore, is as much to 
blame for the nuisance as the other co-owners are. 

I do not decide, however, that he could not under any 
circumstances have recovered indemnity' trcm his co-owners, 
for the injury sustained to his bakery, as the law that one 
wrong doer cannot sue another wrong doer for contribution or 
indemnity seems to apply to cases of wrong in the ordinary 
sense of the word or culpable negligence. 

The plaintiflf has suffered this state of things to continue 
too long when he might have had earlier recourse to the 
remedy >\hich the Commissioner has afforded him and which 
I confirm, the order I mean requiring the defendants to cut 
down the overhanging tree, to entitle him to damages by way 
of indemnity. 

B '3 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



98 



THE iiUPkEME COURT REi'ORTS, 



[Vol. ii. 



Malar 

KlRITHAT- 
KANDU. 



As tenant-in-common with defendants of the land support- 
ing the palmyra tree, I take it that it was not in his power 
to cut down the tree without the consent of his co-owners, 
unless in exceptional circumstances which are not present 
here. 

It would have been an act of destructive waste quite out- 
side the course of good husbandry which his co-owners might 
have applied to the court to prevent by injunction. 

In confirming the order on the defendants to cut down 
the tree I intend to follow the principles of the case decided 
by Clarence J. and reported in i S. C. C. p. 103. 

Mr. Seneviratne argued that defendants were responsible 
for the damages, as they were the exclusive owners of this 
particular tree. 

There would have been an additional difficulty in the 
case if this fact had been proved, but I do not find it even 
so alleged in the plaint. 

Vary the Commissioners' decree by striking out that part 
of it which orders the defendants to pay the plaintiff damages 
and costs. * 

As both sides have partially succeeded each will bear his 
own costs. 



Before Laivrie a. c. j, Withers and Broun j. j. 

August 29 and September i, 1893. 

KATTE KECHU and another i\ NARANY and others. 
[No. 1,015 C, R. Kayts.] 

The ''TfiemwafaHir'' — Cimtrdct of Purchase and Sale—Cuislofn— 
Fo rmalit ies — Publiai ft on and Uduya r\s Schedu Ic — 
Pre-emption — Pleadings — Transfer in 
fraud of Creditor. 

Publication and Udayars' Schedules are not requisites essential to the 
validity of a contract for the purchass or sale of Land in the Province of 
Jaffna. 

lldd that these formalities were designed to protect the right of third 
parties to pre-emption. 

Held also, that where Plaintiff had not in his plaint questioned the valid- 
ity of the^ form of execution of a deed^ it was not necessjtry for defendant to 
prop up by averment each detail of due execution. 

No. ig.377 and 20,562 D. C. Jaffna, IX S. C. C. p. 67 observed upon. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Sept. 20, *93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



99 



On August 8, 1892, I St defendant and his son 2nd de- 
fendant unlawfully took possession of a land belonging to 2nd 
plaintiff, whereupon plaintiffs four days thereafter, on the 12th 
of August, instituted against them the action 768. C,R. Kayts. 
On the 13th August, ist defendant executed in favor of his 
daughter-in-law, the 3rd defendant, wife of 2nd defendant, a 
transfer of his only land and when plaintiffs recovered judg- 
ment against first defendant and sought to execute their wnrit 
the 3rd defendant claimed under her conveyance. 

The plaintiffs brought the present action to have this 
transfer by the 1st defendant in favor of the 3rd defendant 
''cancelled and set aside as fraudulant and illegar' as the same 
was executed without consideration and in fraud of the plain- 
tiffs' creditors. The defendants contended that the transfer was 
not fraudulent, but wrs bofia Jide Sind tot good consideration. 

At the trial, the ist defendant, who was called as a wit- 
ness for the plaintiff, proved the consideration, but admitted 
that the deed was executed without publication and Udayars* 
schedule, and the Commissioner, upon the plaintiff*s counsel's 
motion, declared the deed invalid, holding he was not bound by the 
decision in IX, S.C.C, p. 67, as it was not a decision of the 
Collective Court, and that the said decision was at variance with 
previous decisions of the same Court, and declared the land 
to be the property of the ist defendant. 

The plaintiff appealed. 

The following cases and ordinances were cited or referred to 
in the course of the argument: — Nos. 19377 ^^^ 20562, D.C. Jaffna, 
IX, S. C. C, p. 67, No. 329, C. R. Chavakachcheri, III Lorenz 
p. 28— Vanderstraaten*s Reports p. 94 — Muttukistna's «Thcsa- 
walame" 27th Section, No. 12,869 I^-C. Jaffna, Ramanathan 1864, 
p. 93, No. 2,599, D. C. Jaffna, Ramanathan 1849-166, Procla- 
mation No. 18 of 1806, Ordinance No. i, of 1842. 

Sampayo for 2nd and 3rd Defendants-Appellants. 
Ramanathan^ S. G, {Wendt with him) for Plaintiff- 
Respondents. 

Cur. adv. vult. 
On September i, the following judgments were delivered by 
Lawrie, a, c, j. — I agree that the judgment must be set 



Kalle 
Kechu 

V, 

Naranv. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



too 



THE 8UPRBMB COURT RBPOHTS. 



[Vol. «. 



Katte 

KiCHU 

V, 

Nakany. 



aside and that the case must be sent back for trial on the 
issue whether the transfer to the 3rd defendant was executed 
in fraud of the plaintiff creditor. In trying that issue it may 
be a relevant fact that the transfer was not preceded by the 
publication which usually attends transfers of land in the Jaffna 
Peninsula and the Islands. 

The judgment reported in IX. S. C. C. p. 67, deserves 
re-consideration. I venture to think that Mr. Justice Clarence 
was in error in fact when he said that the formalities were 
obsolete. I believe that they are not obsolete ; neither do I 
agree with Mr. Justice Dias when he said that the rule 
must be taken to have been dispensed with, after the sta- 
tute of frauds came into operation. It. was in full force Ibng 
after 1840. I approve of the law laid down in a case not 
cited to us at the argument, a case decided by the Collective 
Court (Rowe, C. J. Sterling and Temple j. j.) on 29th May, 1858, 
reported in III Lorenz p. 28, where it was held that the 
want of publication did not ipao facto render a deed of trans- 
fer invalid, and that the right totaketheobjectionwaslimited to those 
for whose protection the provision was made. Here even if the 
proclamation had been made the present plaintiff would have 
had no status to object to the sale. 

1 shall be ready to re-consider the dicta in the case reported 
in the 9th volume of the Circular w^hen the objection is taken 
by one who proves that his interests have been prejudiced by 
the omission of this time-honoured, and, I dare say, useful custom. 

Withers, j.— We have been asked to reconsider the 
judgment pronounced in 1890 by Clarence and Dias j. j. which 
declared that publication and Udayar's schedules are not essen- 
tial to the contract of a purchase and sale in the Jaffna Province. 

How the question has come before us has been stated 
by my brother Browne, arid I need not go over the same ground. 

It certainly occurred to me during the argument that 
we were not in a position to determine the point in this 
case inasmuch as it is not alleged as a part of plaintiffs 
cause of action that the deed under which the defendant claira- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Sept. ao, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT RE10RT8. lOl 

ed the property, seized in execution at pldintifi*t instance, was Kallr 

invalid on the ground that the custom of the country which ^^ 

required publication and schedule had not been complied with Nasan?, 
as a condition precedent to a contract of purchase and sale. 

If, however, it is a fact that such a custom is the law 
of the land laid down by this Court in decisions previous 
to the one we are invited now to reconsider, I am not sure 
that it was not open to the plaintiff on eliciting an admis. 
sion from the defendant, that the execution debtor had not 
complied with that custom before executing the transfer in 
his favour, to move the Court for judgment declaring the 
sale to be void and as a necessary consequence the property 
of the execution-debtor leviable under his (plaintift's) judgment, 

1 am therefore prepared to state my opinion as to the 
law on the subject* 

There are no doubt to be found decisions in the books 
implying that the formality of publication and schedule is 
necessary to constitute a valid transfer of property in ihe 
jafina Province, not that there is a uniform current of decisions 
to that effect. The most direct decision on this point of 
modem times was pronounced by this Court in 1870 and is 
reported in Vanderstraaten's Reports p. 94. The decision is a 
very short one and may be said to be comprised in tlie fol- 
lowing words *' according to the general Jaffna law publication 
and schedule are necessary to the valid sale of land.'* Little 
would be gained by going through all the decisions which 1 
have come across on the subject apriaiim. 

All that I think it necessary to say, as regards them, is 
that I cannot understand from ihem why such law was pro- 
nounced to be the law at any time. 

The learned Commissioner and Mr. Solicitor relied very 
much on the 27th of the 72 orders to be found in Muthu- 
kistna's ** Thesawalame '* which are said to have l>een published 
at different times by the Dutch authorities. 

That order declares that the inhabitants of the Jaffna Pro- 
\'ince shall not sell or Otty land without procuring publication 
thereof three weeks in the church nearest the land previous 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



102 



THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



[Vol. ii. 



Katte 
Kechu 

V, 

.Naranv. 



to the sale and prescribes a fine for the violation of the in- 
junctions contained in the order. But the provisions of those 
72 orders never had the force of law given to them by any 
Regulation or Ordinance. 

Regulation i8 of 1806 did give the force of law to the 
country customs of the Malabar inhabitants of the Jaffna Pro- 
vince collected by Claaz Isaaksy and approved of by Governor 
Simons. 

Those customs in an English translation are to bo found 
in the first XXXIV pages of Mutthukistna's Thesawalame. 

The custom relating to the purchase and sale of land is 
described in the ist paragraph of the 27th section of that 
collection of country customs. 

The custom described in that section and preserved by 
the regulation referred to is the requirement of a certain 
mode of publication by a vendor of his intention to sell 
land to a stranger in the interest of his (the vendors) heir, 
and partner, or that of the adjoining landowner, who holds 
a mortgage security over the land, to preserve their right 
of pre-emption. That is not the same thing as a custom 
which makes publication and schedule incidents so necessary 
to the transfer of land, that a transfer without them is void 
as being contrary to the law. Giving my best consideration 
to the matter, I am of opinion that we should declare the 
law of the Jaffna province to be that publication and 
Udayar*s schedule are not requisites essential to the validity 
of a contract for the purchase and sale of land. 

I am not disposed to go so far as to say that the due 
publication of the intention of a vendor to sell his lands to 
a stranger is not necessary to defeat the rights of parties 
who have the privilege of pre-emption. 

I am quite open to consider the question of a customar)- 
right of pre-emption in certain classes of persons, when the 
occasion shall arise. 

In the result I am for setting aside the judgment, and 
remitting the case for trial in due course on the issues 
raised in the pleadings. The appellant will have his costs 
in appeal, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Sept. 20, '93.J THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. lO^ 

Browne, j. — This appeal has come before the Collective ^ Katte 

. Kechit 

Court upon the request of the Solicitor General, inasmuch ^,^ 

as he desired to raise for re-consideration the question Naranv, 

decided by Clarence and Dias j. j, in 19,377 2i°d 20,562 . 

D. C. Jaffna IX. S. C. C. 67. 

The facts of the present case are averred in the plaint to be 
as follows : — 

On the 8th August 1892 ist defendant and his son 2nd 
defendant unlawfully took possession of a land belonging to 
2nd plaintiff, whereupon the plaintiffs 4 days thereafter, on 
the 12th August, instituted against them the action 768 C. R. 
Kayts. On the 13th August ist defendant executed in 
favour of his daughter-in-law 3rd defendant, wife of 2nd 
defendant, a transfer of his only land, and when plaintiffs 
recovered judgment against ist defendant and sought to 
execute their writ, 3rd defendant claimed under her conveyance 
that land when seized. 

The plaintiffs have accordingly instituted the present 
action to have the transfer to 3rd defendant by ist defendant 
"cancelled and set aside as fraudulent and illegal/ and the 
defendants in their answer maintain that the transfer was 
not fraudulent, but Vi,'as bona /ide and for good consideration. 

In support of his case plaintiff called and examined as 
his witness the ist defendant who proved he had received considera- 
tion for his transfer, but at the end of his examination was 
asked without objection and deposed to the fact that the deed 
was executed without* an Udayar's schedule from the Udayar 
of the village, certifying that he had caused publication in 
the village of ist defendant's intention to sell the land. 

Plaintiff himself then gave his testimony, in which he 
stated he was prepared to prove that there had not been any 
consideration for the execution of the deed. 

But before any further evidence was adduced plaintiff's 
Counsel moved the Court to hold the deed to 3rd defendant 
invalid, to set aside 3rd defendant's claim founded thereon, on 
the ground that it was executed without such a schedule, 
and to declare the land the property of the 1st defendant, Counsel 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



104 



THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



[Vol, ii. 



Katte 
Kkchu 

V. 
Xaranv. 



for 2nd and 3rd defendants while admitting that no such 
schedule had been granted, relied on the above-mentioned 
decision of this Court in IX. S. C .C, 67, and the Commissioner 
held the deed invalid and declared the land to be the proper- 
ty of the I St defendant, holding that the decision cited was at 
variance with previous decisions of this Court, and that not 
being a decision of the Collective Court, it was open to him 
to decide as he did. 

I consider first of all that the summary way of deciding 
this htigation was entirely irregular and that this judgment 
cannot stand. Plaintiff instituted his action on the basis that 
the deed was regularly executed, but was so executed in fraud 
of himself a creditor, and this was the only issue— fraud or 
not — which on the pleadings the Court had to try. Had 
plaintiff desired to rely on the informality of the execution of 
the deed, and that 3rd defendant was never thereby entitled 
to the land, he should have so averred. Mr. Solicitor in argu- 
ment contended that the answer was bad in that the 3rd defend- 
ant or all of them did not allege in support of the validity 
of the deed that publication had been made and schedule ob- 
tained, but when the plaintifl had not questioned the validity 
of the form of its execution it was surely unnecessary for the 
defendants to prop up by averment of each detail of due 
execution what was by plaintiff left standing square and firm. 
Secondly, even if disregarding the decision in IX. S. C. C. 
we consider the arguments of Mr Solicitor, I consider that as 
indicated on the question respecting tbe future sale of land 
in 12,869 -District Court, Jaffna Ramanathan 1864, 93 and also 
in the case cited by my Lord the Chief Justice, plaintiffs have 
not shown that it was open to them to raise the objection 
that there had been no publication nor schedule which were 
designed to protect the right of 3rd parties to pre-emption. 
As between the 1st and 3rd defendants here, the contracting 
parties, the transaction was no doubt valid and binding, and 
if it could be disturbed at all, it could only be by someone 
whose right as of pre-emption &c., existing at the date of tbe 
transaction, had been prejudiced by the omission of the cus- 
tomary procedure* Plaintifl had not then $ny such right, because 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Oct. J, 93.] THE SUPREME COURT llEPORtS, 

OB the day previous to the sale he had instituted an action ithich 
resulted in his getting Rs. I-25 dsimiiges and costs. 

Thirdly the proof and admissiop in the case extends not 
further than that Udayar^s schednled were not grants. I find 
DO express proof or admission that due publication • was not 
made, and it has been pointe J out by Oliphamt, c. j. in 2,596 
District Court Jaffna Ramanathan 1849 166 that section 27 of the 
Thesawalame makes no mention at all of any requirement for 
such schedule, and that Ordinance i of 1842 only enacts that 
when they are desired, there shall be be no delay or extortion 
iu the matter of their grant. The necessity for a schedule 
therefore did not become law by the Proclamation 18 of 1806. 

I agree, however, that in view of the recognition an i 
pronouncement by this Court for over 60 years after 1806 
that both proclamation and schedule are, at all- events in such 
cases as where a right of pre-emption may be aftected, neces- 
sary legal preliminaries for a sale of land in the Jaffiia 
province, the decision in IX. S. C. C. will be deserving of 
recbnsideration when occasion shall arise. I know not on what 
proof it was there held that this procedure was obsolete, or 
indeed how what is law could become obsolete in less than 20 
years (so far as our published reports show — possibly much less 
so far as regards lictnal decisions,) since this Court last recog* 
nised it to be law. But this may be shewn when next the 
question shall arise. 



toS 



Kattk 
Kecuu 

V. 

5Iaranv. 



Before Lawrie a. c, j. Withers and Browne j. j. 
August 18 and 29, 1893. 

PULLE r. PULLE and others. 

[No. 559, D. C. Negombo.j 

Deceased debtor — Heirs in jtosHessioH — KxenttorH de son fort. 



Where on the death of the debtor, the next of kin enter into possession 
s estate j ' ' 
he debts 

B 14 



of his estate and by tctive steps take the benefit therefrom, they become liable 
(or the debts of the deceased to the extent of the benefit. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



io6 THE SUPREME COURt REPORtS. [Vol, il. 

Pi'lXE Per Browne. J. — An heir is liable to the extent of the property of the 

V, deceased which has come into bis possession, and a decree cpuld be entered 

PuLLE. against the estate of deceased. 

Wendt for appellant. 

De Saram for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On August 29th the following judgments were delivered.— 

Browne, j. — I regret I cannot agree in dismissing . plain- 
tiff's action. Plaintiff sues to recover Rs. 284 as due to him 
on a notarially attested Tamil written document stamped with 
a 50 cents stamp, which the plaint calls a bond. A question 
having been raised in argument as to whether this is a bond 
or the amount is otherwise now irrecoverable, I hold, in the 
light of the decision reported in Wendt 296, and I. C. L. R. 40, 
that the instrument falls within the class specified in Section 6 of 
Ordinance 22 of 1871, and that the action has been instituted 
within time. 

Plaintiff avers his obligor died about five years before action 
brought without paying this debt and leit '*as heirs in possession 
of his estate and effects which do not exceed Rs. 400/' two 
persons, Salome the wife of ist defendant, and 2nd defendant 
who ha<i married one Juliana, who pre-deceased the debtor, 
leaving her surviving her children Inacia and Lucia, the 3rd 
set of defendants minors sued by their father 2nd defendant as 
their guardian ad litem. 

Plaintiff does not set out the relationship of these defendants 
to his debtor, but in his evidence he deposes that ist defendant 
is son-in-la»v of the debtor, wherefrom it may be assumed to be 
possible that Salome and Juliana were daughters of the debtor. 
No doubt the heirship should have been more clearly particularized, 
but inasmuch as the defendants have not denied they are heirs 
and the usual form of decree in these cases affects only the 
debtor's property and not the defendants, personally, save so 
far as they have profited thereby, the plaintiff should not, in my 
opinion, fail thereby to obtain his decree. 

Plaintiff further particularizes the lands to have been the 
property of liis debtor, and says that all the defendants are in 
possession of them— that 2nd defendant has been appointed 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Oot. 3. '93.] 



THB SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



107 



guardian ad litem over his minor children, and that the amount Pulle 
due to him on this bond is only Rs. 284. Pulle. 

Defendants filed an answer, that, in my judgment, discloses no 
defence whatever to plaintiff's claim. They do not meet plaintifl's 
averments, but deny the debtor "executed any bond** or died 
"possessed of any property of which they are now in possession 
as his heirs and legal representatives,'* and finally they aver 
that before his death the debtor "gifted all his lands to the 
defendants by deeds, and, therefore, they are not liable for his 
unsecured debts." To me this very admission, in so far as it 
negatives the existence of other property out of which the debt 
could be paid, confirms plaintiff's averments, and assists to 
show his right to maintain this action. 

For, is not the question this? What is a creditor of a petty 
Rs. 250 debt like this to do when his debtor dies leaving Rs. 400 
worth of property, and no more, and some persons, who may be 
his children, sons-in-law, or grand children, but are not denied 
to be his heirs, are in possession thereof ? We may excise from 
the judgment of this Court, reported in VIII S. C. C. 14, all 
that was there ruled as to necessity for administration, for since 
the passing of our Civil Procedure Code it would be even less 
necessary that this creditor should administer a Rs. 400 estate 
to recover Rs. 250 than that a mortgagee creditor should do so, 
and the latter in a case of this kind would be so excused under 
the provisions of section 642. There will remain then .(he 
other portions of that decision which point out that an 
heir is liable to the extent of the property of the deceased which 
has come into his possession if it be proved what is here 
admitted, that the deceased died possessed of property, and that 
the property came into the possession of and was appropriated by 
the heir. I regard this case with such an ineffective answer as 
has been filed, as similar to 571840 District Court Colombo, 
Vanderstraten 158, and thaf decree should be entered against all 
who are in possession in the same form as was entered in 5»8o5 
District Court Kegalla VII S. C. C. 180, and 52.983 District 
Court Galle Supreme Court Min. 4th March 1887 (save the 
last sentence thereinj. A minor is, I humbly conceive, as 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I08 THE SUPRKMR COURT REPORTS. [Vol. li. 

PuLLE - capable of receiving benefit in his everyday life out of a 
PrtLLE. ^ fr^^^^o^s estate as is an adult) though, of course, in a lesser 
dfigrdo, proportionate to his younger years, and ic needs only 
that he should be d^ly represented in order th^t the creditor should 
by appoixltment of a guardian ad lit^m of any minor heirs obtain 
a valid decree, which will ifeach the debtor's assets in his or his 
guardiaB*s hands. 

Another questioii, houwver, might hare arise, if defendants 
should properly plead that which plaintiff in VI. S. C. C. 13 
admitted agamst himself, that they are oot only h6irs of the debtor 
but are donees from him of the lands of which they are admittedly 
in possession. No doubt had plaintift been aware of those deeds 
he should have set thein out in his plaint and challenged their 
efficacy to protect the donees on such grounds as he might 
advance, or had defendants disclosed and pleaded them with 
precision in their answer he might have replied thereto so as to 
r^ise the issue which Dias, J, in the decision under reference held, 
had not these been duly raised. As the pleadings now stand, 
I do not see that it would be open tc defendants to lead proof 
of what they have not duly and fully pleaded. 

While I would set aside this decree, holding that there had 
been suffieient proof of the debt and that decree could be 
entered *<aigainst the estate of the deceased' X57i^40 l^-C. Colombo, 
nt supra) i.e,^ in the later form to which I have referred, I would give 
liberty to defendants to amend the 3rd paragraph of their answer 
on the usual terms within a specified time and the case to 
proceed to trial thereon, or else that judgment l^e entered against 
the deleiidsnts for the amount claimed, 8|ich judgment to be 
elrfcvceable if necessary by levy on tlie property ef the deceased 
Susey Ftraando Vengadashi, in the hands of the defendantSg or 
any of thmm, but not otherwise. 

Lawkie, a. c. j. This action is instituted against 5 persons 
as **heirs in possession" of the estate of a deceased debtor 
of the plaiiitiflF, It is plain from the averments, and from the 
evidence, that out of the five defendants, two — the two men 
(husbands of Saldtoe and Juliana)— ar^ not heirs or next ef 
kin of the deceased. WiiateVer be their liabilities it is not as 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Oct. 3, 93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. IO9 

heirs in posscf saoo. Of the remamiBg thr«e« two ara stated to Pixle 
be minors, it is not averred in the pUint, nor was it proved piille. 
at the trial, that these minora by «ny act of theirs had entered — 
on the inheritance. I do not say that a minor by his duly 
appointed guardian, or even a minor himself when he reached 
years of comparative understanding, may not enter on and 
take possession of land or goods which belonged to a deceased 
ancestor, but I say, that the plaintififin this case has neither 
averred nor proved any acts of the minors or by a guardi.ia 
which, in law, would make them liable fjr the debts of the 
deceased relative. 

The rem^^ining defendant is Salome. What relative she 
is to the deceast:d the plaintiff does not take the trouble to 
tell us in his plaint nor does he aver what is the name or 
value of the lands Salome is in possession oft. 

In affirming the judgment, mainly for the reasons given 
by the learned District Judge, I do not feel that I am abridging 
the rights of creditors of small sums whose debtors die 
before payment. Now, as always, the law is, that the mere 
fact of relationship, of being th6 next ot kin. the son, the 
guardian, nephew, cousin or father, or uncle, of one who dies, 
will not make men liable for their relations' debts. They were 
not liable when the debtor was alive ; they are not liable 
when he is dead ; but if, by the death one gr more of the 
next of kin is entitled to benefit, and by active steps takes 
the benefit, he becomes liable to the extent of the benefit, 
cither as an erecnfor de $on tort or as an heir, who has 
entered on the inheritance. But, to make minors liable tor 
the relations* debts, the creditor must aver and prove some- 
thing more than relationship, and even something more than 
presumed benefit, he must prove acts of possessbn and 
enjoyment of the deceased's property sufficient to render even 
mincnrs liable. 

Again (as from the pleadings and pro^ seems to be the 
caee here) if the deceased debtor before his death dispose 
inter vivos of all his estate by deeds of gift, the question 
whether Ihe donees are by virtue of their taking benefit under 
their deeds liable for the donor's dehtl, will depend ovk the 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



no THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

PuLLE date of the contracting of the debt as compared with the 
P.JLLE ^*^® ^ ^^ ^^^^» ^^ ^^^^ further be complicated by consideration 

as to the amount of property which the deceased then had 

and how he dealt with it. The plaint of an action directed 
against donees should fairly raise the issue of liability, but 
here the plaintiff has avoided it by ignoring the deeds of 
gift altogether. 

The burden of proving that these defendants are liable 
on a contract to which they were strangers lay on the 
plaintiff. In my opinion, he failed, and his action was properly 
dismissed. 

Withers j. — I agree in affirming the judgment. I do 
not see how the minors can h>e made accountable for this 
debt, either in their own persons or to the extent of assets, 
if any, VIrhich have come into their hands. 



Before Lawrie a. c j., Withers and Brotr/ie j. j. 

August 15th and 25th, 1803. 

CHETTY V. ETANA and others. 

No. 472, D. C, Chilaw. 

Adiating an inheHtance — Widmr and children of d^reaj^ed 

drbfor — E.recutor de son tort — Liahility of heir-^. 

Observations on the atleganda tt froha^tJa necessary to render an heir 
in possession of the deceased's estate liable for the deceased*s debts and the 
extent of such liability. 

D. r. Kandy, 90, 200, IV. S. C. C, followed. 
Wendt for appellant. No appearance for respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 
On August 25th, the following judgments were delivered. — 

Lawrie a. c. j. — The plaintiff, averring that he holds a 
writing obligatory granted to him by the deceased Vidane 
Appu and that the debt Rs. 1,250 is still due, sues the 
widow and the minor children of the deceased debtor, and 
prays for judgment against them on the ground that they 
have **adiated the inheritance." As against the minors this is 
plainly not a cause of action* 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Oct. 3»*930 "rME SUPREME COURT REt»ORTS. Ill 

I do not think it is possible for several minors to "adiate Chetty 
ao inheritance." It is perhaps not very certain what is the exana 
meaning oi the expression ''adiating an inheritance ;" but at best — 
it must be some act or series of acts by a person of full 
age and contracting powers ; no act by minors would be such 
an adiation of an inheritance, as to render them after the do- 
ing of the act liable for debts which but for the act they 
would not have been responsible for. This at least I feel 
certain of, that a general averment of adiation is not sufficient; 
the specific acts the doing of which render the minors liable 
must be clearly set forth. 

With regard to the ist defendant (the widow) if she being 
of full age and legal capacity without taking letters of adminis- 
tration, had taken possession of the whole of her husband's 
estate, she may have rendered herself liable for his debts as 
an erecutor de son tort^ but that is not the cause of action 
against her. She, like her children, is sued because she adiated 
the inheritance, does that mean more than that she has taken 
possession of the one half of the property, to which under the 
Ordinance of 1876 she has right ? If so, that does not necessarily 
make her liable to pay all the debts of the husband; she is 
not Ha!)le to pay mors than the amount she succeeded to. 

It is not here averred what the amount of the estate was. 

The case as against the widow would have been different 
if the plaintiff had averred that the estate of the deceased debtor 
was of greater value than Rs. 1,000, that the widow had failed 
to take letters of administration and had notwithstanding taken 
possession of specified property of specified value and had there- 
fore rendered herself liable to pay a debt of that specified 
amount. The action against these defendants was rightly 
dismissed, though, as I have indicated , T do not rest my 
judgment on the ground given by the learned District Judge. 

Withers, j. — I also would affirm this judgment. The 
plaint is so defective in my opinion that the action cannot 
but fail. 

The suit is brought by the creditor of one Vadagu 
Mudianselage Vidane Appu deceased, against his late debtor's 
widow and children, to recover from them the amount of his 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Iti tHE SUPkliMB COURt kBPORtS. [Vol. ii. 

Chetty cieht on the ground that they have "adiated" the dead man's 
Etana. '^inheritance/* This antiquated expression of old Roman law 

is hardly adapted to the law of to-day, and without 

•particulars is an empty averment. 

The allegandd and probanda in an action like the present 
are pointed out in VI, S. C. C. p. 13. Nothing however 
could be alleged or proved to make the minor children answer- 
able for the father's debt in whole or in part, either out of 
his assets or their assets. 

The plaintiff has shewn himself unwise rather than tricky 
in not procuring a person to be appointed administrator of 
the estate and effects of his deceased debtor. 

Browne, j. — Plaintiff seeks to recover a money decree for 
Rs. 1,25675 principal and interest on a mortgage bond dated 
i6th December 1891, which he recited in, and filed with his 
plaint, alleging that his obligor died lo months prior to institu- 
tion of action, and that his widow and children whom plaiutiff 
named as defendants have adiated their husband's and>father*s 
inheritance. Concurrently with the institution of the action plain- 
tiff applied for and obtained an order nisi appointing ist 
defendant guardian ad iitefn over minor children, the 2nd, 3rd 
and 4th defendants, and this order was thereafter made abso- 
lute on no cause being shewn. Those latter proceedings 
were irregular in that (i) there is no record that the minors 
appeared personally in Court or were prevented by good cause 
from so doing, (Sec 493 Civil Procedure Code) in that (2) 
the petition and affidavit did not contain the averments 
required by Section 749, and in that (3) (as 1 think should still 
be done according to what was directed in 76,232 District 
Court Colombo S. C. C. 154 and in order to avert the 
necessity of the Summary Procedure are permitted by section 
493) no notice was served along with the symmons on the 
minor defendants to procure a guardian ad litem of their 
own selection to be appointed nor was averment made that 
they were so young as to be unable to do so. 

The parties however regarded that ist defendant had been 
validly appointed, the caption of the plaint was amended 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Oct. 24, \j}.] ' THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 1 13 

accordingly, and then the Court queried whether the action Chetty 
would be maintained when there had not been application made etana. 

for tlie appointment of an administrator to the estate of the 

deceased mortgagor, as required by Section 642, Civil Procedure 
Code, and on this suggestion the defendant hied answer 
taking that plea. 

I do not consider that sections 545 and 547 have any 
application to the present question, for the former concerns 
the question of appointment generally on a death l)eing reported 
to the Court, and the latter only actions for the recovery of 
any pioperty of a deceased (9 S. C. C. 181). Hut the question is 
rather, since the passing of the Civil Procedure Code, is it open 
to a mortgagee when his mortgagor has died since the ist, 
August 1890, to sue to recover only a money judgment in 
respect of the debt due to him on his mortgage bond ? To 
me it appears that the provisions of sections 640 and 642 are 
obligatory upon the mortgagee desiring to realize monies 
secured to him on a mortgage after the death of hi§ mortgagor, 
to proceed only in either of the ways therein directed, according 
to either contingency of the property mortgaged exceeding or 
l^ing less than Rs. 1000 in value, and that he cannot institute 
an action on the mere debt. The policy of this requirement 
is very possibly this: — That the heirs of a mortgagor whose 
property exceeding Ks. 1000 in value was mortgaged to its 
entire value would never seek to administer it, and so the 
revenue by stamp duties thereon is thus protected by the 
obligation thus imposed on each mortgagee. The design of 
tbe plaintiff (if any) I regard, not as the learned District 
Judge does, to have been to trick the widow and children, 
but rather to realize the mortgage without its having been 
reduced by the costs of administration. 

In this case, however, there is nothin*^ before the Court 
to shew what is the value of the properly of the debtor 
which has passed to the possession ot the delcndants, to the 
value whereof alone the plaintiff could obtain a decree against 
any vicious intromitters in a suit for the purpose and 
both as an action against an executor de son tort y the plaint 
is defective as my brother Withers has pointed out, and 

B15 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



114 



THE SU1*REME court REPORTS. 



[Vol, ii. 

Chetty in my opinion it was not perpiissible for the plaintiff so to 
Etana. *^^ ^^^ widow and children, sav^ in a proper mortgage action. 
— I agree that the suit be dismissed with costs. 



Before Lawrie^ a. c. j, and Wither-^ j. 

July II and August i, 1893. 

BASTIAN V. ANDRIS and others. 

[No. 35,918 D, C. Matara.] 

Mortgagp by yuardian — Liabiliiy of guardirni:^ — Liability of 
m ino rti — Rat ijica t ion — Kn o tr ledge and acq a iesrenre. 



The 6rst 'defendant actings in good faith, but without authority, a,** guardiaii 

he other defendants who were minors, mortgaged with the plaintiff tenain 

immoveable property belonging to the latter. The plaintiff claimed a money 



judgment against all the defendants and a mortgage decree against the immoveable 
property. 

Hfld, that plaintiffs ac'ion failed (a) aj^inst the first defendant because 
he did not bind himself as principal and (b) against the other defendants 
because the first defendant was not authorised to incur u debt on their behalf 
and there was no proof tnat they rati6ed the mortgage when they came of age. 

Dornhurst for ist defendant-appellant. 

Wendt for 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants-appellants. 

VanLaugenberg for plaintiff-respondent. 

Cur. adv. vult. 

On August I, 1893, the following judgments were delivered :— 

Lawrie, a. c. j.— In 1869 the first defendant without auth- 
ority held himself out to be the legal guardian of the other 
defendants, and borrowed money on the security of a mortgage 
over the property which he assumed he had power to grant. 
The mortgagee was permitted to enter on the lands. He and 
his assignee possessed them for many years during the minority 
of the owners. On attaining majority the defendants did not 
notify the mortgage of the ist defendant. About 1889 the 
mortgagee lost possession, and in 1890 he brought this action 
alleging that the mortgage was granted by the ist defendant 
for, or on behalf of and as guardian of the second, third and 
fourth defendants. 

He prayed for a money judgment againts the defendants 
jointly and severally and for a mortgage decree affiecting the 
lands. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Oct. 24, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



U5 



The 2nd. 3rd and 4th defendants are not bound by the 
mortgage and the plaintiff has no right to a judgment against 
them or against the lands. The question whether the ist 
defendant is liable to repay the money borrowed and received 
by him depends on the terms of the bond, it is dfficult to decipher 
the document of which the plaintiff ought to have filed a legible 
copy. 

I understand that the ist detend^.nt represented himself to 
be an agent ; he did not bind himsfelf personally, there is no 
allegation that he was guilty- of fraud or fraudulent representa- 
tion. It may be that he and the plaintiff laboured under the 
mutual mistake that he was the natural guardian of his deceased 
sister's minor children, and that he had legal powers td deal 
with their estate. It was not contemplated that the guardian 
should bind himself and his own property ; the botld is not so 
expressed . 

I am of opinion that the plaintiff is not entitled to recover 
from the ist defendant personally. 

I would sot aside the judgment and dismiss thfe action nHth 
costs. 

Withers, J. — This is an action to recover on a usufructuary 
mortgage bond a sum of Rs 300. principal with legal interest 
thereon from the date of suit till payment in full. The bond 
purports to be made by the 1st defendant on th^ 2nd of 
September, 1869, and to mortgage shafes in certain lands 
belonging to the other defendants to be possessed by plaintiff 
in lieu of interest. The plaintiff claims a money judgment 
against the defendants jointly and severally and a mortgage 
decree against the shares in the land for the liquidation of 
the said sum and interest. 

It is clear that plaintiff cannot recover judgment for the debt 
ajrainst the ist defendant and the others jointly and severally 
as prayed, for the 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants were Ho 
parties to the bond. We have to decide two questions, one 
whether the ist defendant is liable to satisfy the debt personally, 
the other whether the shares in the land dre liable to be 
sold in satisfaction of the debt secured by the mortgage. 
The plaintiff is entitled to a mortgage decree only on proof 



Basttan 
Andrfs. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ii6 



THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



[Vol. ii. 



Bastian 

V. 

Andris. 



that the defendant had the authority to borrow the money oa 
behalf of the other defendants and secure their property for 
the repayment of the money borrowed, or that the mortgage 
by ist defendant of their shares in lands was ratified by the 
other defendants so as to bind the lands as security for the 
debt. 

I omit for the moment any notice of other points of 
importance raised by appellants counsel. 

In his deposition plar'ntift says that the money was bor- 
rowed by ist defendant to pay oflf a debt due from the estate 
of one Punchi Hamy, the mother of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th 
defendants. He says that the money was duly paid for on account 
of what it was borrowed. 

He further says that ist defendant had been judicially 
appointed guardian of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants, then 
minors, when he borrowed and applied the money to the dis- 
charge of the claim against Punchihamy's Estate. 

He declares that he took possession of the shares of lands 
mortgaged to him and remained in possession of them till 
he assigned his interest in the bond to one Don Louis some 
nine or ten years before the time he gave evidence in the cause. 
His assignee entered into possession of the shares, according to this 
witness, and held them for some four ye^rs when, having paid 
his assignee the money given for the assignment, the plaintiff 
entered into possession of the shares of land and held poss- 
ession till 1889, when the 3rd defendant witheld possession of 
them from him to his loss of interest in kind. 

In cross examination, the plaintiff says that he contracted with 
the ist defendant as guardian of the other defendants, they being 
minors. Don Louis confirms plaintiff's testimony and says 
he not only endorsed the bond in a way to shew that plaintiff had 
paid him back the money for which lie had taken the bond, 
but afterwards executed a deed cancelling the assignment. 

There does appear to be an endorsement on the original bond 
by one Louis Hami, of which the translation filed is as follows: — 

•*The Rs. 100 appearing in this deed has correctly been 
received from Mr. Don Bastian, the seller (/. e, assignor) therein 
named, and the deed is handed to him on this 5th November i886. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Oct. 24, 93.] 



THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



^17 



At page 49 is a document to which the plaintiff and Don 
Louis were parties, bearing date August i8th, 1889. It 
purports to be a renunciation of all the latter's claim to the 
benefits of the bond theretofore assigned to him in consideration 
of the repayment of that which he — Don Louis— gave for the 
assignment of the ist defendant's mortgage bond in his favour* 

Here ma} be mentioned one of the points made by ap- 
pellant's counsel. He argued that this deed of renunciation 
was not operative to extinguish the contract of assignment so that 
plaintift had no title to sue. 

I am against counsel on this point. I think that the con- 
tract was thereby extinguished and that the plaintiff was restored 
to his position of usufructuary mortgagee under ist defendant's 
bond. 

Now, what of ist defendant's liability? Mr. Dornhorst made 
two other points on this question. He argued that the bond 
was granted by ist defendant to and accepted by the plaintiff, not 
in the personal character of the ist deft*ndant, but in a represen- 
tative character as guardian. 

In support of his contention he referred to the plaint 
which alleges that ist defendant received this money for and 
on behalf of and as guardian of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th defendants, 
to the evidence of the plaintiff above recited as to the purpose 
for which this money was borrowed, and to the recital in the 

bond itself, p. 33 ** know all men that before Notary 

appeared the undersigned on behalf cf the three defendants and 
one Babahanii (since deceased) all being minors, who acknow- 
ledge himself to be indebted to Djn Bastian (plaintiff) in the 

sum of to be lent and advanced to him the appearer, for 

the purpose of paying the amounts ol the two cases 

who renounce the benefit of uni miinf*riUip j)pnini(>* which 
atoresaid sum of the appearer on behalf of the afore- 
said minor children hereby promises and undertakes to pay 
or cause to be paid unto the said Don Bastian his heirs, etc., 
for the securing thereof the appearer hereby on behalf of the 
aforesaid declare to bind specially as & mortgage certain 
shares of lands therein enumerated — p 37? •^•—(illegible) by 
the four minor children by right of maternal inheritance of ••• 



Bastian 
Andkis. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Il8 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

Bastian (illegible) upon conditions nevertheless that the said creditor (the 
Andrts plaintiff) d j, may and shall possess without any interruptions the 

produce and profits of the aforesaid premises in lieu of interest as 

aforesaid. 

This document is signed in Sinhalese characters by the 
^ mortgagor. 

Is this signature, which is presumptive evidence of 
assent to the document signed, rebutted by evidence to the 
eflfect that the signatory was not to be l>ound as principal. 
It may well be that a creditor looks to the personal respon- 
sibility of a borrower for monies which he is lending to the 
borrower on behalf of 3rd parties and that .the borrower may 
bind himself personally therefor. But in this case it seems 
to me that the whole tenor of the bond shows that the signatory 
was not binding himself as a principal and other circumstances 
referred to confirm this view of the position. So that on this 
point I think the ist defendant is entitled to succeed. 

I am not with Mr. Dornhorst in his contention that the 
debt is barred as against the ist defendant, because no payment 
of interest by him had taken the law out of our Statute of 
Limitations, I think the possession in lieu of interest operated ^ 
as a payment. 

There is no evidence that the defendant had any authority 
to incur this debt on behalf of the minors and bind their estate, nor 
do we know that the shares of land mortgaged by 1st defendant 
was estate devolving on the minors from Fimchihamy 011 
account of whose debt the money was borrowed. 

The plaintiff may perhaps have had a good cause of action 
for damages against the defendant on account of monies borrowed 
under a misrepresentation of authority, but this is not one of the 
present causes of action. As to the right of the plaintiff* to recover 
his debt by a judicial sale of the shares of land mortgaged 
to him by the ist defendant, it must be clearly proved that the 
act of the ist defendant in thus mortgaging the shares was 
subsequently ratified by the defendants after they came of age 
so as to bind their interests and the shares of land. Acquiescence 
and non-disavowal within a reasonable time may l>e taken to 
coticlude a ratification, but acquiscence and ratification trtust b« 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Oct. 24, '93-] THE SUPREME CX)URT REPORTS. 119 

based on a full or bare knowledge of facts. Of this really ^^^^y^^ 
there is no proof. Indeed, if Ango Appu, the person spoken Andkis. 
of by Mendis Jayawardane, a witness for the plaintiff, is the 3rd 
defendant who is alleged to have ousted the plaintiff, he by 
this very act repudiated the mortgage of the lands which he 
wished to enjoy himself. No doubt it is said that he under- 
took to pay the debt, but at the most that imported only 
a moral obligation and cannot be converted into an ac- 
quiescence in the mortgage the usufruct of which he stopped 
the moment it seems he was aware of it. 

As to the 2nd and 4th defendants there is no proof 
whatever of their knowledge or acquiescence of the mortgage 
of their shares. 

In the result it is my opinion that the judgment should be 
set aside and the plaintiff's claim dismissed with costs. 



Before Withrrn and Bfvwne^ j. j. 

August 8 and 15, 1893. 

PERERA r. ABERAN and others 

[No. 640, D. C, Kalutara.] 

Decree lioUler — Sale in euectdion — Un^atinjied decree — Secessary 
avennenU in plaint — Ciril Procedure Code — Section ii47. 

lu -an action by the decree holder under section 247 of the Civil Procedure 
Code to have it declared that certain properties are liable to be sold in 
satisfaction of the decree in his fiivour. it must be alleged and proved that 
ui the date of the institution of the action the decree ^as unsatisoed. 

This was an action by the decree holder against a successful 
claimant and the judgment debtors to have it declared that 
the land claimed was liable to be sold in execution of the 
decree in his favour. There was also a claini for damages. 
The plaint did not allege that at the date of the institution 
of the action the amount decreed was unsatished, the defendants, 
inter aliriy answered that *' the allegations in the plaint do 
not entitle the plaintiff to the reUef prayed for." At the trial 
the judge dismissed the plaintiff^'s case, on the ground that 
there was no averment in the plaint that any amount was 
doe to the plaintiff on his writ. Plaintiff appealed. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I20 



THE SUPKliME COURT RLFORTS. 



•Vol. 



Perera 

V, 
A RERAN. 



tSampai/o for plaintiff-appellant ; 

Morgan for ist 7 deffendants-respondants. 

Cur. adv. vult. 
On August 15, 1893, the following judgments were delivered :— 

Withers, j. — 1 think the leiirned juc'ge was right in pro- 
nouncing the plaint defective, hut I think he went too far in 
dismissing the claim altogether in conse(iuence. 

The point of law was not very fairly taken in the answer, 
in the sense, I mean, of not being explicit as it should have 
been. Had the ground been specified in the answer plaintiff, 
if so advised, might have applied for leave to amend his 
plaint by stating, if true, that he had recovered a money 
decree against defendants for so much with costs, that the 
amount so recovered was at the date of the order complained 
of and at the date of institution of this action wholly or 
partially unsatisfied, as the case may be, and he would have 
been or should have been allowed to make the necessary 
amendment, I should have thought that the fact of a subsisting 
money decree was as essential an element in a plaint by a 
judgment creditor under the 247 section Civil Procedure Code 
as a statement of the order releasing the seizure and the 
date of that order. 

That order is conclusive unless within 14 days an action 
is instituted to have it declared that that order notwithstanding 
the property seized and released is liable to be sold in satisfaction 
of the execution creditor's judgment and that declaration is ad- 
jiidged. Mr. Sampayo, however, argued that it was at least not 
necessary to allege the substance of the judgment debt at the 
date of action, because a judgement creditor, even if paid after 
release of seizure occasioned by an improper objection or claim, 
would be entitled to recover damages consequent thereon in an 
action instituted for the purpose of having it declared that 
at the date of the order of release the property as his debtor's 
assets was liable to be sold in execution of the decree in 
his favour. That is a very plausible contention, but looking 
at the effect of the order which subject to the result of the 
action shall be conclusive and to the object of the action 
permitted to the judgn>ent creditor by section 247 viz. to have 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Nov. 15, ^93.] 



THE SUPREME COiiRf REPOkt^. 



I2i 



the said property declared liable (1. e, I take it presently 
liable) to be sold in execution of his decree, the plaintiff in 
this action must in my opinion declare on a subsisting judg- 
ment debt. A judgm nt can only he executed if any part of it 
is outstanding. If there is no debt to levy for what is the cause 
of action ? It would be adding to the list of fictitious causes 
of action if a sham decree could originate a contest as to 
title to property. No doubt it may be said that if the property 
is assets of the judgment debtor it is no concern to the parties 
having no sort of interest therein whether the judgment 
debt is a sham or genuine one, but when property has been 
released from seizure on the ground that it was not in the 
debtor's possession direct or indirect and therefore not leviable 
by the Fiscal it surely is incumbent on a judgment 
creditor in an action against third parties at whose instance 
such an order has been made to aver and prove that he 
holds an unsatisfied money decree as well as that the 
property he seeks to attach is assets of his debtor liable 
to be levied* thereunder. I am prepared to give plaintiff 
liberty to amend his plaint as indicated on payment of the costs 
of the argument on the 8th February last. As the learned 
judge gave him no option in the Court below I think it 
would be unfair to order him to pay the costs of appeal 
as to which no order will be made if he avails himself 
of the liberty accorded to him. 

Set aside the judgment with Hberty to plaintiff to amend his 
plaint as indicated within fourteen days of the date of our 
judgment herein on paying respondent's costs as aforesaid. 

Plaintiff failing so to amend his plaint on terms as afore- 
said and delivering copy of the amendment to respondent's 
Proctor within two days of the entry oi the amendment on 
the record, the action will stand dismissed with cost in both 
Courts. 

Browne, j, — Under a certain Bill of Sale and two Fiscal's 
transfers Simon, plaintiff avers, was entitled to § of } of two 
allotments of land and he and the 8 — 1 1 Hefenj^ants had pres- 
criptive possession thereof. Plaintiff then avers that he is the 
decree holder that 8 — 11 defendants are next of kin who 

B 16 



Pbrbra 

A9BRAN. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



i2i 



THE SUPREME COURT REPORtS. 



[Vol.ii. 



Perera 

V, 

Aberan. 



adiated Simon's inheritance on the judgment debtors in a 
certain action but that i — 7 defendants when plaintiff had the 
land seized in execution of his decree unlawfully claimed the 
same to her damage of Rs. 20. Plaintiff prayed the usual 
declaration of the liability of the land to be sold and damages. 
The I — 7 defendants answered inter alia that the allegations 
in the plaint do not entitle the plaintiff to the relief prayed for 
and at the trial expanded this into the objection that there 
was no averment that any amount was due to plaintifi on 
his writ. 

This Court has already held this allegation and proof 
thereof to be necessary in an action by a mortgagee under 
Sect. 247 of the Civil Procedure Code or in an ordinary hy- 
pothecary action (574 D. C. Negombo II C. L. R. 188 in Wftis) 
and in my opinion is necessary in all actions instituted under 
the provisions of section 247 and this for the more immediate 
object of having this land declared liable to l>e sold in execution 
as well as for the lesser object of recovering damages for the 
wrongful claim, 

Whefher in the extreme case suggested by Mr. Sampayo 
of the writ being paid after the wrongful claim, but the writ 
holder still desiring to recover damages and suing to recover them 
alone it would be necessary to him to make this averment, will 
properly fall to be considered when such case shall rise. 
While agreeing in the views held by my brother Withers 
in the judgement he has written, I may add even in such an 
action as that suggested, not instituted for the peculiar purpose 
of section 247, it seems to me it would be still necessary to aver 
and prove existence of an unsatisfied decree to show that the 
plaintiff had full right to seize the land at the time when the 
wrongful claim was made to his datnage. So that in all cases 
the averment and proof are necessary. 

I agree to the order proposed considering plantiff should have 
had opportunity given him to amend before his plaint was dis- 
missed altogether. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Nov, 15, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 123 

Before Laivrie a. c. j. Withers and Broume j. j. 

August ii and 15, September 15 and 22, 1893. 

SIATU V. SADUWA. 

[No. 224, D. C, Kegalla.] 

Judgment — Appealable Order — Civil Procedure Code^ sections 
608 J54 — Courts Ordinance section 89. 

The plaintiff, a Nindagama proprietor, sued the defendants as Paravani tenants 
of the Nindagama for services alleged to be due but not performed by them. 
The defendants filed answer objecting as a matter of law that the plaint disclosed 
no cause of action. The District Judge upheld the claim and decreed a sum 
of Rs. 121*25 to the plaintiff reserving for fiirher adjudication the proportion 
payable by each defendant. The defendants appealed. 

HtUiy (Withers j. dissenting) that the order was an appealable one. 
Bnwa for defendants-appellants. 
Sampayo for plaintiff- respondent. 

On August 15, 1893, the following judgments were delivered : — 
Browne, j.— Plaintiff claiming to be lessee from the exe- 
cutrix of the late Henry de Soysa, owner and proprietor of a 
certain Nindagama, and to be (in the words of his lease) 
ordained to recover money from the tenants in lieu of 
Hajalihdriijd sued in this action thirteen defendants as the 
para want' Nelakarayas for Rs. 121-25 alleged to be the com- 
muted value of the Rajahkariya services due by them. 

Ten of the thirteen defendants filed answer wherein they 
raised only for defence as matter of law the question whether 
the plaint did or did not disclose a right in the plaintiff to 
bring and maintain this action and gave nine grounds upon 
which they submitted their defence should be sustained. 

The learned District Judge upheld the claim of the plaintiff, 
I. e. I presume that the plaint did disclose the right of the 
plaintiff to bring this action and entered a "decree" that 
the thirteen defendants as paraveni tenants of the Pangua 
in question do each severally pay to plaintiff such portion of 
the sum of Rs. 1*25 and the taxed costs of the action as 
would bear the same ratio to that su^i as his individual 
interest in the pangua might bear to the whole value of 
the pangua, and further that the amount of such portion 
be subject of further adjudication before execution , should 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



124 



THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



[Vol. ii. 



SlATU 
V. 

Saduwa. 



issue and be recovered in the first instance from the produce 
of the Pangua baloaging to the N ilakarayas and failing such 
recovery by sale of the defendants* interest therein. 

The defendants at once appealed from this judgment and 
decree and objection has beei taken preliminary to the argu- 
ment thereof that no appeal lay from this decree. 

I consider the objection should not be sustained but 
that the appeal should be heard. No doubt a mere expression 
of opinion on the part of a judge would not be A decree 
or sentence (5,326, District Court Mannat 2 Lor. 9. 82,841, 
District Court, Kandy, IV. S. C. C. 124) but here there has 
been a judgment that the plaintiff has in his plaint disclosed 
a sufficient cause of action and (since there was no further 
defence) a decree that each defendant do severally pay his 
proportionate share of the amount in claim and costs and a 
further decree for the ascertainment of each such proportion 
and the mode of its recovery. The one question which the 
pleadings made at issue between the parties was thus decided 
in that a sufficient right or cause of action was preferred ior 
adjudication and from this decision an appeal lies. 

I regard the decree made by the learned District Judge as one 
of those contemplated by section 508 of the Civil Procedure 
Code and I apprehend that every successive decree or order in 
any such piecemeal adjudication would be as open to appeal 
as was each successive order in Corbet v. The Ceylon Com- 
pany that determined a principle upon which ulterior proceedings 
would be taken. If it be so, the right to appeal could more 
strongly be claimed here in that if the defence were upheld and the 
decision reversed the Court would be saved the time and 
trouble and the parties the costs of the proposed further 
enquiry and adjudication thereon. In my view the wording 
of section 39 of Courts Ordinance and section 752 of the Civil 
Procedure Code is large enough to include any such decree 
or order made by ^a District Court as the present among the 
class of what is rightly appealable. 

Withers j* — In my opinion the appeal is premature and 
must be rejected. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Nov. 15, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. I25 

True there is a judgment and a decree but the j«dg- Statu 
ment does not decide the question at issue and the decree saihiwa 
cannot as it stands be executed. 

The action is instituted by a so called Nindagama pro- 
prietor for the time being to recover compensation from his 
tenants for failure of services during the plaintiflf's alleged 
proprietorship under which the defendants hold the lands form- 
ing a pangua of the Nindagama. 

Plaintifl claims that the defendants be condemned to pay 
him Rs. 121-25 by way of compensation. The learned judjjje 
has found that the compensation asked for breach oi services 
ought to l)e paid by the defendantJj not as joint and several 
debtors but as debtors pro parte vinii. 

It remains to be ascertained and adjudicated what each 
defendant ought to be decreed to pay the plaintiff. 

The judgment and decree are therefore inconclusive, an<l 
the action has not yet been finally decided. I cannot see how 
an appeal can be taken from a judgment or so-called decree 
in this incomplete state and I think respondent's preliminary 
objection must succeed and I would reject the appeal with 
costs. 

If 1 am not mistaken, the principle of my proposed 
decision has been constantly recognised by this Court. 

Lawrie, a. c. j. — I am unable to agree to reject this 
appeal. 

The defendants plead as a matter of law that the plaint 
does not disclose a right of action in the plaintiff and they 
pray that the action be dismissed with costs. 

The District Judge repelled that plea in law and found 
the defendants liable according to the proportion which the 
land held by them bore to the sum claimed. In my opinion 
there is a judgment against which an appeal may be taken. It 
is not a mere incidental order, it goes to the root of the action. * 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



126 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

Before Laivrie^ a. c. j. and Witlievs and Broivne, j. j. 

September 8 and 15, 1893. 

SAIBO and another v. APPUHAMY. 

[No 433, D. C, Chilaw.] 

Landlord and Tenant — Liability 0/ Landlord to put Tenant 

in possession of premises let — Tntei^ruption by 

Landlord, or strangers of Tenant's enjoy- 

ment of the premises. 

Pf't* Withers, j. — In an action for rent by landlord against Tenant it is a 
good defence that the landlord did not implement the contract of letting by 
putting the tenant in possession of the property let, and if the tenant had 
advanced money by way of rent for the use of the premises of which the land- 
lord had failed to put him in possession, he might recover the money so paid 
us money had and received by the landloid for the use of the tenant. 

Interruption by the landlord or any one under him of the tenant's enjoyment of the 
premises let is no answer to a claim for rent due and payable before such inter- 
ruption, but it is ground for a tenant's claim to have the contract of lease 
cancelled and for recovery of damages consequent on the interruption. 

Interruption of a tenant by strangers after the tenant has been put in 
prossession by the landlord is no answer to a claim fur rent, unless such 
inturruption was followed by eviction in due course of law, and it is then only an 
answer to a claim for rent that has become due after such interruption. 

Such interruption is no ground for a claim to damages or cancellation 
of the lease, unless it was followed by eviction in law and due notice h«d 
been given to the landlord, in the proieedings terminating in evict i>n. to 
warrant and defend the defendant's title. 

This was an action by a landlord against his tenant for rent 
Judgment having gone for defendant, plaintiff appealed. 

Wendt (Sampayo with him) for plaintiff-appellant. 

Jayeivardnw for defendant-respondent. 

On September 15, 1893, their Lordships being of opinion 
that the answer was so ambiguously worded that it was impossible 
to know whether the defence was that the defendant was never 
put in possession or that after he was let into possession he was 
interrupted, agreed to remit the case to the Court below for 
amendment of the answer, giving the liberty to amend the 
answer on payment by him to the plaintiff of all costs incurred by 
the plaintiff since the filing of the answer, and the following judg- 
ment in which tb^ points summarised above were considered 
was delivered^ by 

Withers, j. — It is an essential part, I take it, of a contract 
of letting or hiring that a landlord should put his tenant in 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Nav. 15, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. I27 

possession of the subject of the contract, and to an action for Saibo 
rent covenanted for by the tenant I think it would be a good appuhamv. 

defence that the landlord haud iwphvisae cotitntrtum by put- 

ting the tenant in possession of the premises and if the tenant 
had advanced any money by way of rent for the use of the 
premises into which the landlord had not put him as his contract 
obliged him to do, I think it would be competent for the 
tenant to recover the money so paid without consideration or 
for a consideration that has failed as money had and received 
by the landlord for the use of the tenant. 

Interruption by the landlord or any one under him in the 
enjoyment of the premises can be no answer to a claim for 
rent due and payable before the interruption, but it would be 
good ground for a tenant's claim to have the contract of lease 
cancelled and for' damages consequent on the interruption. 
Interruption by strangers after a tenant has been put into 
possession by a landlord can be no answer to a claim for rent 
unless the interruption was followed by eviction in due course 
of law and then only an answer to a claim for rent after such 
interruption, and such interruption can be no ground for claim 
to damages or cancellation of lease unless such interruption 
was followed by eviction in law and due notice to the landlord 
to warrant and defend defendant's title in the proceedings 
terminating in eviction had been given to the landlord. The 
answer in this case is so ambiguously worded that I do not know 
whether the plea intended to be taken is that the defendant 
was never let into possession of the premises by the plaintiff 
or that after he was let into possession he was interrupted by the 
people named in his answer. 

If the former is intended then I think that the defence and 
counterclaim can be sustained, otherwise both defence and 
counterclaim fail. If the judge is satisfied after such examina- 
tion as is mentioned in the 146th Section of the Civil Procedure 
Code that the defendant's plea is that he was never let into 
possession by the plaintiff, then that issue should be settled 
and set down for trial, and I am prepared to set aside the judg- 
ment for the purpose of remitting the case to the lower Court in 
order that that issue, ifsQ settled after enquiry may be duly tried. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



128 TtiE SUPREME COURT REPOkTS. Voi. H. 

Saibo Tliis IS really an indulgence to the defendant and I agree 

Appi'hamv ^^^^^ ^^^ order as to costs proposed by the Chief Justice as 

well as to his suggestion that on defendant's failure to comply 

with this order judgment should be entered for plaintiff with 
costs. 



Before Laivrle^ a. c. j. 

September 21 and 28, 1893. 

THE QUEEN i\ BABUN and another. 

[No, 9,007, D, C, Criminal, Matara.] 

Offence punhhahh with imprisonment or fine — Imprisonment 
in default of payment of svch fine — 
Penal Code, Sections 163, 454, 

Section 454 of the Penal Code enacts that **whoever commits forgery 
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description which may extend to 
five years, or with fine, or with both." 

Heldy that the offence being punishable with a fine alone the term of im- 
prisonment in default of payment of such fine should be regulated by section 
63, of the Penal Code. 

The accused were convicted, under section 454 of the Penal 
Code, of forgery, and were sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 100 
each, and in default of payment of the fine to nine months' 
rigorous imprisonment. The accused appealed. 

There was no appearance of Counsel for the appellants. 

DrieherQy c. c, for respondent. 

Lawrie, a. c. j.— I see no reason to disturb the conviction 
and the sentence of fine of Rs. 100, but I cannot sustain the 
order that in default of payment the accused shall suffer rigorous 
imprisonment for nine months. 

The crime of which the accused have been found guilty is 
by the Penal Code punishable with imprisonment of either 
description or fine or both. 

Therefore, it is a crime punishable with fine alone. It is 
not one of those crimes which must be punished with im- 
prisonment, ^ut* St is a crime which may be punished with 
fine without imprisonment, and for such sentence the 63rd 
section of the Penal Code appUesi and the imprisanmeat, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Nov. 27, *93.] THE SUPREME COURT kEPORtS. Jt29 

which the Court imposes in default of payment of the fine, The (Juekn 
may not be rigorous it must be simple, and it shall not exceed BabIn. 

four months, when the amount of the fine does not exceed 

Rs. 100. 

I, therefore, reduce the sentence of imprisonment in default 
of the fine to four months' simple imprisonment. 



Before Withers^ j. 

September 14 and 19, 1893. 

TELESINGHE v. ANTHONY. 

[No. 5,225, P. C, Chilaw*] 

Obstruction of 2)€r8on ejreciiting tlie latvfnl otxlrr of a 
Public Servant — Penal Codc^ Section 183. 

In order to support a conviction under Sect. 183 of the Penal Code for 
obstructing a person executing the lawful order of a public servant the order 
must be one which it was competent to the public servant to make. , 

There was no appearance of counsel for either party. 

Withers, j. — The appeal succeeds on the point of law taken 
in it that the order which the prosecutor was obstructed by 
the appellant in his endeavour to execute was not a lawful 
order of a public servant (1. e.f a Police Magistrate) in the dis- 
charge of his public functions. 

A mandate to sequestrate several cocoanut lands and sell 
the fruits thereof (which lands are apparently the subject of a 
civil action in the District Court) with the object of preventing 
a possible disturbance of the peace amongst those who assert 
a right to enjoy the produce of the land is not one which a Police 
Magistrate is competent to issue. 



B 17 

Digitized byV^OOQlC 



ijd ttiE SUFkEMJl COURT kEPORtS. Vol. ii 

IN THE SUPREME COURT.* 

[Admiralty Jurisdiction.] 

THE QELDERLAND. 

Adniiralti/'-ColUsion — Foreign vessel^ action againat — Ad/ni rally 
Jurisdiction of tJie Supreme Court of Ceylon — Vice- 
Admiralty Act of 1863 — Ordinance 
No. 2 of 1891. 

The Supreme Court of Ceylon in its Admiralty Jurisdiction has the same 
powers as the High Court of England in its Admiralty Jurisdiction and must have 
the same regard as that Court to international law and the comity of nations. 

Hence, the Supreme Court of Ceylon in its Admiralty Jurisdiction car 
entertain a claim for damages against a Foreign Vessel lying in the harbours of 
Ceylon for injuries caustMl by her to a British ship on the high seas. 

The procedure to be followed in the exercise of such jurisdicticn is tlic 
procedure enacted by the Vict- Admiralty Act of 1863. 

An action of damage by collision. 

This was an action in rem brought by plaintiflfe, the owners 
of the steamship Swordsman^ to recover damages arising from a 
collision on the high seas between the Sirordsman and the Gelder- 
land^ a foreign vessel, which at the date of action was lying 
in the harbour of Colombo. 

Messrs, Dornhjrst and Wefidt appeared for the plaintiffs. 

The Hon'ble C. P. Layard^ A.-O,, (Messrs. Tempter and 
VanLangenherg with him) appeared for the owners of the 
Gelili'rland. 

On the day of trial, November 7, 1893. Layard, A.-O.^ 
objected to the jurisdiction of tlie Supreme Court of Ceylon to 
entertain the action, the Gelder land being a foreign vessel and 
tlie collision having occurred on the high seas. He also argued that 
the procedure adopted was irregular, inasmuch a:j no suumiary 
application had been nuide tjo any judge for the detention of the 
of the ship until satisfaction or security given, and that jtbere was 
no defendant properly before the Court 

Ctfr. adv. vult. 

On November 8, the following judgments were delivered:— 

Lawrie, a. c. j,-jTiMS is the first Admiralty case instituted 
in this colony since the passing of the Ceylon Courts of 

•BiiFoRE //a/tv/>, A. c. J., Wif/ierii AUD Browfte, j. j. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Nov. 27, '93.] THE 8UPRBMB COURT 1IBP0RT9* IJI 

AdmiraUjr Ordinance 1891* The Attorney-General challen^jed The 
the jurisdiction of the Court over a foreign ship, now in the har- *'-^_^^'^^'* 
hour of Colombo, which had caused injury to a British ship on 
the high seas. On hearing all that the learned Attorney-General 
urged, I yesterday had no doubt at all that the objection to our 
jurisdiction was unsound, but it was right that the full Court 
should take time to consult together. We have consulted and 
we have carefully considered the basis of the powers extendeJ 
to us by the Legislature. We authoritatively dispose of the 
objection, and unhesitatingly sustain our jurisdiction. The 
Attorney-General laid much stress on the 527th section of the 
Merchant Shipping Act. By that, certain powers were given to 
all Courts of Record in the United Kingdom, but the juris- 
diction over foreign ships existed in the High Court of Admiralty 
long before the passing of that Act, and the provisions of the 
527th section which provides a procedure by which almost any 
one in authority ia Great Britain may detain a foreign ship 
have no bearing whatever on the question of the jurisdiction 
of the Supreme Court of Ceylon. By our Ordinance 2 of 189!, 
the Supreme Court has jurisdiction over the like places, per^ns, 
matters and things as the Admiralty jurisdiction of the High Court 
in England whether existing by virtue of any Statute or other- 
wise, and such Colonial Court of Admiralty shall exercise such 
jurisdiction in the Kke manner and to as full an extent as the 
High Coort of England^ and shall have the same r^ard as 
that Court to international law and the comity of nations. 
If the High Court in England has jurisdiction over foreign 
d)if)s found within the harbours of the United Kingdom 
which have caused injury to British ships in any part of the 
world, then the Supreme Court of Ceylon has the like juris- 
diction over foreign ships found in the harbours of Ceylon. 
That the High Court liad that jurisdiction is clear. It 
fe equally clear that this Court has it unless indeed there be 
any provision or limitation in the Colonial Courts of Admiralty 
Act 1890 which takes it away from this Court.. There is no 
^uch limitation to be found in that Act, and I assert for this 
Go«rt full and complete jurisdiction in all cases where foreign 
Aips fownd withiti the hftcbo*ir and rivers of this Colony, are 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



132 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. lU 

The stated to have caused injury in any part of the world to any 
Gelderland t» .,. , , . ^. , , , . , , . . ,. . 

British ship. The rules by which that jurisdiction is to be 

exercised are the rules made under the Vice-Admiralty Act 

of 1863, and not the procedure of the 527th section of the 

Merchant Shipping Act. 

Withers, J.— The plea taken by the Attorney-General ore 
fenns to the jurisdiction of the Court must, I think, be repelled. 
As to the jurisdiction I cannot read the Colonial Courts of 
Admiralty Act of i8q6 and our local Ordinance No. 2 of 
1 891 without comirg to the conclusion, that in like circum- 
stances this Court has, subject to anything in the former Act, 
the same jurisdiction as the Admiralty jurisdiction of the High 
Court of Justice in England. This is not less than the juris- 
diction of the High Court of Admiralty before the constitution 
of the Supreme Court of Judicature. By statute 24 Victoria 
Cap 10, I take it that the High Court of Admiralty was 
competent to entertain a suit for damage caused in any waters, 
by a foreign ship, to one owned by Her Majefity*s subjects, 
the presence of the ship in any port in England giving it the 
right to make it answerable in damages. An action against a ship 
for damages by collision is one in rem for the arrest of which the 
High Court of Admiralty had, and the High Oourt in Admiralty 
has, its own procedure. This procedure is quite outside the sections 
of the Merchant Shipping Act to which the Attorney-General 
invited our attention when he protested against our mode 
of procedure, as well as our exercise of jurisdiction. No rules 
having been framed under our own Ordinance, we are obliged 
to follow the rules of the Vice Admiralty Act of 1863 which 
was done in the present case. 

Browne, j. — Although under 3 and 4 Vic. C. 65 the 
High Court of Admiralty had jurisdiction to decide all claims 
and demands whatsoever in the case of any foreign ship appa- 
rently only necessaries supplied, this jurisdiction was largely 
increased by 24 Vic. C. 10, Sect. 7 whereof gave it juris- 
diction ''over any claim for damage done by any ship." This 
act was later than the Merchant Shipping Act of 17 and 18 
Vic. C. 104, Sect, 527 — 29 whereof were cited with such stress 
by Mr. Attorney to us and I gather from the case of Jefiren 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Nov. 27, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 1 33 

?«. The Frmwonia (25 W. R. 699 and 796: 46. L. J. P. D. The 

,. ,.,, . , Gfldekland 
and A. 71 and 33} that there never was any question as to the 

jurisdiction of the High Court of Admiralty thereunder to award 
damages, for injury to property caused by foreign ships under 
collision at sea. In that action the only questi* n raised was 
whether "Damage" was applicable to injury to the person as well, 
and the Appeal Court being divided in opinion, the Judgment 
in the affirmative thereof by the Admiralty Court was affirmed, 
thus giving the power as large an application as possible. 
It has been urged upon us by Mr. Attorney, however, that 
the sections 527-529 cited by him direct a procedure to l>e 
had *' Whenever any injury has in any part of the world 
been caused to any property belonging to any of Her Majesty's 
subjects by any foreign ship, if at any time thereafter such 
ship is found in any port or rivor of the United Kingdom 
or within three miles of the coast thereof" and that this 
procedure has not been followed in these proceedings. What 
is there enacted is that the Judge of any Court of Record 
in the United Kingdom or the Judge of the High Court of 
Admiralty or in Scotland the Court of Session or the Sherifl' 
of the Country within whose Jurisdiction such ship may be, 
may on summary application whenever the injury was probably 
caused by the misconduct or want of skill of the master, &c., 
of such ship to issue an order directed to any officer of 
Customs or any officer named by such Judge requiring him 
to detain such ship until such time as the owner, &c., had 
made satisfaction of such injury, or had given approved secu- 
rity to abide the result of any action, suit 01 legal proceeding 
that might be instituted- in respect of such damages and pay 
all costs and damages, and the officer so directed should 
detain such ship. Mr. Attorney objected that no application 
had been made summarily to any Judge, or order made by 
such Judge to any officer requiring the detention of the 
ship until satisfaction or security given, and no such detention 
had been made since only a writ of summons and warrant 
to arrest the ship and cargo had been issued as in an ordi- 
nary Admiralty action in this Court against a British ship, 
ftnd that there was no defendant properly before the Court, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



134 '^"^ SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol» U. 

The since (S6ct. 5^9) it waft Ihe person who had given such 

security who should be made defendants and no one has as 

yet given such security. I read these sections of Part X. 
of that Act which relates only to Legal Procedure as in no 
respect aftecting the jurisdiction of the Admiralty Court 
undet the later Act to which the largest possible construction 
has been given as* I have said. These sections are a pro- 
vision for tlie emergency that the foreign ship may leave 
the port before an ordinary action can be instituted against her 
n the ordinary procedure and are no substitute for that 
ordinary procedure. This is even more clear from Section 
528 which, without the intervention of any Court at all, 
enables a full pay Commissioned Officer or any British 
Officers of Customs or Consular Officer, without risk to himself 
so long as he acts on reasonable grounds, to detain such 
foreign ship until such time as shall allow of such appli- 
catioii to be made, so that (assuming these sections apply 
to Ceylon) if the Gelderland had desired to leave Coloraho 
a few hours after her arrival the Collector of Customs might 
have detained her till application was made to this C<>urt, or 
possibly some other Court, in turn to order some one to 
detain her until the master, &c., had given security or had abided 
the event of any action which might be instituted of course 
in the usual manner. No such application was needed or 
was made, and action has been so filed, and in its form is 
not in my opinion vitiated by the absence of any of those 
proceedings. I do not find that this procedure was resorted to 
in the first instance in the case of the Franconia. She had 
been ** arrested" not merely "detained" at the suit oif the 
owners of the StrathCh/de and thereafter some certain 
actions were pending against her at the suit of other persons, 
the Admiralty Court ordered she should be released in all 
actions on her owners giving such general security in a form 
corresponding to that which Sect. 547 indicates (vide L. R. 
2, C. P. D. 173, 46 L. J, C. L. 363.) That security was, 
however, held not to apply to an action in the Common 
Pleas Division for damages for injury to person and so the 
claim in Jeffrey's case was pressed in the Admiralty Court 
with success as I have said. The Sections of th6 Merchant 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Nov. 27, *93.] THE SUPREME CpUfeT REPOJlTS. tiS 

Shipping Act do not, therefore, need to be read with The 

substituted words under 53 and 54 Vic. C, 27, Sect. 2 (3a), 

Riding together the provisions of that act and of our 
Ordinance No. 3 of 1 891 whose language in its preamble and 
2od secticHi is a reproduction of the English Enactment, I 
hold that this Colonial Court of Admiralty has as full 
jurisdiction to entertain this action against a foreign vessel 
lying in the harbour of Colombo as the High Court of 
England in its Admiralty jurisdiction would have to hear 
and determine a like action against a like foreign vessel 
lying in a like harbour in England, but that it must have 
the same regard as that Court to international law and the 
comity of nations and that the procedure which has been 
taken under the still existing rules of the Vice-Admiralty 
Courts Act of 1863 is regular. 



BbFORB Withers and Brototie^ j. j. 
October 27 and November 3, 1893. 
8ENANAYEKE v. APPU and others. 
[No. 1,195 D. C, Nbgombo.] 

Pifi I tit — Protijritij — SsummoiiH — 'Isstie and Sevvue^-^ 
InrgHturitij — Waitrr — Civil Pfocfdure Code. 
SectionH 66, 92, 366, mid 766. 

Where a plaint is so prolix and embarrassing as ta be oppressive it is the dut^ 
o[ the defendant, who is summoned to answer it, to apply to the Court at the earli- 
est opportunity to have the plaint taken off the file. 

Wlxere the defendants appeared in obedience to summons and applied for and 
obtained fourteen days' time to file answer and on the day before the answer was due 
moved to have the plaint taken off the file as embarrassing and unintelligible:— 

Ileld^ that the motion was made too late, and that the defendants having obtain- 
ed time to file answer roust be considered to have waived all objections to the plaint 
and the summons. 

Per Withers and Browne, j. j.— Issue of summons unauthorized by the jud- 
ge's signature and entry of date is irregular. 

Prr Withers, j — Where summons has not been duly served in accordance with 
the provisions of section 55 of the Civil Procedure Code the defendant is not bound 
to appear and no judgment by default can be entered against him. If he appears he 
cures the irregularity. 

/Vr Browne, j. — Nuiiic of appeal under section 756 of the Civil Procedure 
Code should be served by the FiscaL 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



136 THE SUPREME COURT feEPORTS. [VoL iL 

Senanayeke Plaintiff's proctor having filed his appointment, plaint and 

^pp,j^ affidavit moved for writ of sequestration. The Listrict Judge or- 
dered that notice of this motion should issue. Three days there- 
after the Secretary of the District Court issued summons and con- 
cise statements, without being authorized thereto by the Court. 
On the returnable day of summons the 5th defendant moved "that 
the proceedings had in the case be vacated." This motion was 
disallowed. Wishing to appeal against the order disallowing tbe 
motion the 5th defendant served notice of appeal on the plaintiflTs 
proctor by his clerk. The District Judge holding this service to 
be insufficient declined to accept the security thereafter tendered. 
Against this refusal the 5th defendant appealed. The other defen- 
dants obtained fourteen day's time to plead and on tlie day before 
their answer was due moved to have the plaint taken off the file as 
embarrassing and unintelligible. This motion was rejected for 
want of particulars of objection to the plaint. The motion was re- 
newed the following day when it was rejected for want of legal 
notice of it, /. ^„ served through the Fiscal. Against both rejections 
these defendants appealed. 

Donthonst and Sanipat/Oj for defendants-appellants. 
Wendt and Asserappa^ for plaintiff-relpondent. 

Cur. adt\ vtill. 

Oil November .'^, the following judgments were delivered : — 
Withers, j. — I have no doubt that a Court of record has 
jurisdiction to protect its records from abuse by taking off 
its file any pleading affidavit or other document which is so 
prolix and embarrassing, as to be oppressive. If such was 
fhe character of the plaint filed in this action it would have 
been the proper course for the defendants summoned to 
answer it to take the first opportunity available of applying 
to the Court for an order to remove it from the file and the 
Court would have been quite competent to make the order. 
Mr. Wendt however, has satisfied me that the plaint is not 
so embarrassing as to be oppressive. The fourth paragraph is 
not so clear as it might be and in the gth paragraph there 
is a mistaken reference to the third paragraph of the plaint 
which, however, could mislead nobody, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



bee. 2, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS* ij? 

On the i8th, of April, three days* after the plaint was filed, Senanayeke 
summons was issued accompanied by concise statements of apph. 

the plaint, see journal entry of the i8th April. The issue of 

summons unauthorised by the Judge's signature and entry of 
date was no doubt irregular (see sections 55 and 92 of the 
Civil Procedure Code), but in my opinion this irregularity 
was waived. The defendants applied for time to file answer 
hereinafter referred to. 

The first application which concerns us is one niade to 
the Court on the 2nd May, 1893, ^Y ^^^ Proctor above-mentioned 
—and this was that the Court should vacate the proceedings 
had in the case, I will say no more of this application than 
that I do not pretend to understand it. Vacating an order 
is intelligible, so is a stay of proceedings. The application 
was rejected. The next motion which concerns us is one made 
to the Court on the 15th of May by Mr. Proctor Rajapakse 
on behalf of the defendants, and that was to remove the 
plaint from the file on the ground of it being embarrassing 
and unintelligible. 

That question I have disposed of. On the following day 
Mr, Wijetunge, for 5th defendant, moved the Court to direct 
acceptance of the security tendered in appeal from (I 
suppose) the order of the 2nd May before referred to. The 
motion was disallowed. 

This motion was renewed on the 19th of May and was 
again disallowed. I think it unnecessary to discuss the points 
acutely argued by counsel with regard to the acceptance of 
a plaint, the order thereon for summons, the proper mode of 
service of notices and especially of notice relating to tender 
of security in appeal and other interesting points of practice, 
because I think on the plain merits of the case that all these 
appeals ought to be dismissed. The cloud of objections raised 
by them should be cleared from the face of the record. There 
was no solid foundation for any of them. 

The appellants on their own application had obtained 14 days, 
time to file answer and that permission closed their mouths 
against all objections on the ground of irregularity of proceedings. 

B 18 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



138 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. il. 

Senanayeke Hud they during that fortnight found the plaint so embarrassing 
y^pp^, as to pass all understanding, I am not prepared to say that 

they would have been precluded from applying to the Court 

for due redress. 

I think it proper not to leave the case without making 
this observation. Where summons has not been duly served 
in accordance with the provisions of the 55th section of the Civil 
Procedure Code, the defendant is not bound to appear and 
no judgment d'^fault can be entered against him. If he appears 
to the summons he cures the irregularity. If the copy of the 
plaint or concise statement delivered to him under that section 
is so indefinite and uncertain as not fairly to apprise him 
of the cause of action, I see no reason to prevent a defendant 
giving notice with all despatch to the other side that he 
will appear and move the Court that that defect may be 
cured in the plaint or copy or statement and the proceedings 
stayed in order to enable him to have a clean case put before 
h m to answer, and in this regard I must take exception to a 
passage in the learned judge's order t3 be found at page 22 of 
the record, where he appears to intimate that a native who 
does not understand English and has engaged a Proctor is not 
prejudiced by the omission to serve on him a copy of the 
plaint or concise statement translated into his language. 

I think he is prejudiced, because he is much better able 
to instruct his proctor if he has received such a translation 
of the statement of the cause of action than if he has not. 
I am for dismissing all the appeals with costs. 

Browne, j. — The 5th defendant in this action has sepa- 
rated himself from the 8 other defendants both in appointment of 
Proctor and in the steps taken by him, and this separation 
continues even in the appeals which have been filed. 

Dealing with the 5th defendant first the proceedings 
were as follows: — 

PlaintifTs proctor filed appointment, plaint and affidavit 
and moved for writ of secjuestration. The District Judge made 
order only that notice of the motion should issue. Three days 
thereafter, without any recorded order by the judge to sane- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. 2, '93.] THE GUPREMB COURT REPORTS. 1 39 

tion his act, the Secretary issued summons and concise Sknanateke 
statements. There cannot be any presumption as to the authority ^ppj^ 

of the Secretary to do so, and 5th defendant rightly appreciated 

their legal invaUdity. He, however, considered this entitled him 
to come forward and object to them and tha form of his 
objection as recorded by the District Judaic (I presume it was 
made viva voce on the returnable date of summ >ns as I cannot 
find any written embodiment of it by his pro:tor) was '*that 
the Court will vacate the proceedings," but no doubt the proper 
course for him to have taken was to hive treated them as 
worthless against him and not to have appeared generally in 
the action, or else possibly to appear only spjcially to object 
thereto on notice. The District Judge rejecte i the appHcation, 
and though I entirely dissent from the reasons given by him 
fordoing so, I would not be disposed t^ S3t aside his order. 
The object of any summons that could hive been regularly 
issued had been attained by all the defendants having a week 
previously caused appearance to be entered f)r them in the 
action as they might always voluntarily do before service on 
them of summons and the insufficiency in Ian .juage or quality 
of any concise statement served on them would thereafter at 
least be ground only for extension of time to plead or do 
prepare defence 

All defendants were before the Court when this application 
was made and the District Judge has recorded that 
on their application time was given them to file answer. 
I do not see how the 5th defendant could appeal from the 
order thereafter. He did however desire to do so and served 
notice of appeal on the plaintiff's proctor only and that by 
his clerk. The District Judge held this service insufficient and 
declined to accept the security thereafter tendered against which 
refusal 5th defendant has appealed. It is still an open question 
whether notice to the defendant (Sect. 756) can be given nnder 
the provisions of Sect. 29 to the Respondent's Proctor, the 
three Judges of this Court in 285 District Court, Gohtnbo, 
(Supreme Court minutes, 19th December, 1890,) not having agreet 
thereon, though they suffered the appeal then before them to 
be argued. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



140 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. «. 

Senanayeke The notice however should in my opinion under Sect. 356 

Appit have been served by the Fiscal, and the appeal therefore 

cannot be sustained. The other defendants after accept ing^ on 

the 2nd May time to plead, moved on the day before their 
answer wa<; due that the plaint I e taken off the file as embarrasing 
ind unintelligible. On the rejection that day of the motion 
for want of particulars of objection to the plaint, the motion 
was renewed on the following day and it was then rejected for 
want of legal notice of it, i, ^., served through the Fiscal : against 
both rejections these other defendants have appealed. 

I am not disposed to disturb this order. The application 
made at the last moment, a month after the plaint was filed 
and a fortnight after time to plead was given, savours of a 
policy of delay rather than bond Jid^ contention and cannot 
expect any sympathy. But I regard the reasons for the rejec- 
tion as in themselves sufficient and (allowing to a clerical 
error twice repeated of calling paragraph 4, "the third para- 
graph'') the plaint is clear and intelligible: the end of that 
paragraph describes in words and by a figure of survey the 
land in claim in the action and the defendants should reason- 
ably have been able to plead thereto. 



Before Burnsidfy c. j. 

February 18 and 23, 1892. 

VELAYADAN v. GEDDES, 

[No. 7)4449 C. R., Chavakachcheri.] 

Loan — Hire — Destruction of thing Lent or Hired — 
Liability of Bailee, 

Where a person borrows or hires a thine, he is bound to return it, unless 
he is prevented from doing so by something for which he is not responsible. 

In an action for damages for non-return of a "bull loaned to the defendant, 
the defendant pleaded that it was killed by a leopard while in his possission:— 

Htld^ a had plea, unless it could be shewn that the defendant had taken 
the utmost c£.re of the animal, or that it was at the time of the accident under 
the care of the plaintifTs servant. 

The facts sufficiently appear in the judgment of the Court, 

^9 (Counsel appeared. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. 27, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. I4I 

On February 23, the following judgment was delivered : — Velayadan 

BuRNSiDE, c. J. — There was no appearance on this appeal. Geddes. 
The plaintiff's claim is for damages for non-return of a bulj 
which he says he loaned to defendant. Defendant denies that 
he borrowed the bull, but admits that he hired it for a 
journey. 

Now this was no answer to the action, for whether he 
lx)rrowed it, or hired it, he was bound to return it, unless 
indeed he was prevented from doinj< so by something for 
which he was not responsible. 

It is said that the bull was killed by a leopard whilst 
it was in the defendant's possession, but there is no proof of it, 
and even had it been proved, prima ftvcie the defendant was 
liable, unless he shewed that he had taken the utmost care 
of the animal, or that it was at the time of the accident 
under the care of the plaintiff's servant. This it certainly was 
not. It Avas in the charge of a person not employed by the 
plaintiff but who was acting as the defendant's servant, and 
whether he had once been plaintiff's servant or not does not 
touch the question of the defendant's liability for his defauh. 

The defendant was, therefore, liable to the plaintiff for the 
value of the animal which he has failed to return. On his 
own shewing the defendant was bound to pay the plaintiff 
something for the hiring, even this he has not done. 

The defendant's evidence to my mind is most unsatisfac- 
tory. His defence is certainly ungenerous, and I • do not under- 
stand the judgment of the learned Commissioner. 

I set aside the judgment and give judgment for the plaintiS 
for the value of the bull which may be fairly estimated at ru- 
pees thirty together with rupees ten as damages, which includes 
what the plaintifi would have been entitled to receive for the use 
of it, and tlie plaintitt will have his costs in both Courts. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



14a THE SUPREMB COURT RBP0RT8. Vol. U. 

Before Lawrie^ a. c. j,, WiflwrR and Brotrne, j. j. 

September 5 and 8, 1893. 

MAHATMAYA r. BANDA. 

(No.6,473, D, C, Kandy.) 

Kamhfan Law — Illegithnate Childn*n — Acquired Prajyeriy— 

Widow^ Right of— -Civil Pnjredure C<Hle 

Section 18. 

According to the Kandyan law the illegitimate children of a deceased succeed 
to his acquired property, provided there be no legiiiraaie children and no widow 
surviving. 

If there be both legitimate and illegitimate children the acquired property 
is divided between them. 

Action in detinue. The facts sufficiently appear in the judg- 
ments of the Court. 

Wendt^ for plaintiffs-appellants. 

Donihoraty for defendant-respondent. 

Cur. adv. valt. 

On Hepteraber 8, the following judgments were delivered:— 

Lawrie, a. c. j. — If it were not that these plaintiff's are 

minors I would recommend that the action be dismissed 

on the ground that the plaint is evasive and that the evidence 

led is at variance with the averments. 

The plaintiffs claim as the heirs-at law of Ukku Bamla 
who is incidentally stated to be their father. It is certainly 
untrue that they are his heirs-at-law and even if they are, 
there is no aVerment that there are no other heirs-at-law 
or that Ukku Banda died intestate. 

The plaint is silent as to the nature of the property whether 
acquired or inherited. 

This is an action in detinue. There is no averment of wrong- 
ful detention. 

If, however, we deal liberally with the plaintiffs, and if we 
take the answer and the evidence adduced as truly disclosing 
the facts, we find that this is an action not by Ukku Banda's 
heirs-at-law, but by his illegitimate children in which they claim 
his acquired movable property on the footing that their 
father died intestate and unmarried without legitimate children. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. 2, 93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 143 

The learned District Judge was with the plaintiffs on Mahatmata 
all points but ohe; he held that Ukku Banda was married g^j^p^^ 

at the time of his death, and that his widow Muttu Menika 

had right to the acquired property superior to that of the 
illegitimate children. 

I hesitate to agree with the learned District Judge. 

It is not averred or proved that the marriage of Muttu 
Menika to Ukku Banda was registered. 

It is proved that she left him many years ago and that 
she is now living as the wife of another man; she is no party 
to this action. She has made no claim to this property. The 
defendant does not assert that he holds this property for her. 

It seems to me that we may safely exclude Muttu Menika from 
consideration. 

Another supposed competitor is Kiri Banda said to have 
been adopted by Ukku Banda, but as he has not pressed 
a clami he, too, may be left out of consideration. 

It is well-established Kandyan law that provided there 
be no legitimate children and no widow illegitimate children 
succeed to the whole of the acquired property of the father. 

Sawers, p. 7 (quoted afterwards by Marshall, p. 338). Niti 
Nighanduwa p. 14. Perera's Armour p.p. 8 & 34; i Lorensz 
p. 189. 

Jf the deceased owner of the acquired property leaves (besides 
the illegitimate children) legitimate children, the acquired property 
is divided between them, and in a case unreported ol which I 
have a note, 721, District Court, Kandy, decided on March 11, 
1842, it was held by this Court that the acquired property should be 
divided between the widow and the illegitimate children of the 
deceased, but in that case I think the widow, by dam u?ntwa 
got the property as heir of the deceased legitimate son of her's. 

Here, on the footing that Ukku Banda left no widow and no 
legitimate children, I think it right that the plaintiff should be 
held entitled to the property which the defendant in his answer 
admits he has possession of. 

Withers, j. — The contest between the parties is as to the 
right of Ukku Banda's children, being issue of his co-habitation 
with Punchi Manika, to certain movable assets of Ukku Banda's 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



144 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

Mahatmava estate admittedly in the custody of the defendant. It is taken 
Banda ^^^ granted that Ukku Banda died intestate. 

It is not alleged or pretended that the plaintiffs are the 

legitimate issue of Ukku banda. If as his illegiliinate children 
they are entitled to the movable assets of the estate in the 
defendant s hands, the defendant must be adjudged and ordered 
to surrender them to their curator who sues on their behalf 
to recover those assets. 

Defendant does not claim the movables admittedly in his 
possession as his own, nor does he set up a jns terth\ he 
says and has a right to say, " before you can comi>el me 
to give up the movables I am keeping as a sort of stake-holder, 
you the plaintiffs must prove your right to these goods." 

The simple issue on the pleadings is, are the plaintiffs, as 
illegitimate children of Ukku Banda, entitled to have and keep those 
movables as their own? This is a pure question of Kandyan 
law which would be answered adversely to the plaintiff if there 
was proof of a legitimate widow of Ukku Banda now being alive. 
But the existence of such a person has not been proved and 
cannot be assumed. 

As it is, it must be answered in their favour, these being 
articles acquired by their father. Defendant must give up the 
articles admitted to be in his possession. I would give plaintiff 
judgment for those articles with costs. 

Browne, j. — If defendant had desired for her own protection 
that there should be a decision as to any possible conflict of 
claim between plaintiff's, Muttu Menika and Kiri Banda, he 
could have moved under Section 1 8 of the. Civil Procedure Code 
that the alleged widow and adopted son should have been joined 
as parties necessary for effective and complete adjudication 
of all questions involved in the action. But though his answer 
suggested their rights he did not so press forward any contention 
for them and they on their part abstained from any claim. There 
is no proof of either the marriage or the adoption, and I 
agree that the plaintifTs should have judgment for all articles 
admitted in the answer or their values as stated in the plaint, and 
also for the Cash Rs. i6'88 which defendant admits he received 
but does not prove he disbursed. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. g, *93.] the supkEME court reports. 145 

Before Laivr'w^ a. c. j. 

September 21 and 28, 1893, 

FERNANDO v, FERNANDO. 

[No, 26,193, D. C, Criminal Chilaw.] 

Ewecution of decree — HefuHal to yield up posHeHsion — (Jonfentpt of 

Court— Civil Proicdnre Code, Sectiom 326,800. 

Refusal to yield pos9CS«ion of lands unJcr a decree of court «does not 
amount to a contempt of Court. 

Appeal from a conviction for contempt of Court under 
section 800 of the Civil Procedure Code. The facts sufficiently 
appear in the judgment. 

Heiiewirntue, and Sett at hi raja, for the appellant. 

Dornhorst, for respondent. 

Cur, adv, ruff. 

On September 28, the following judgment was delivered : — 
Lawrie, a. c. j. — When the Fiscal's officer, entrusted with the 
execution of the decree for delivery of possession to the purchaser 
of four lands sold by the Fiscal, first went to execute the decree 
on 26th April, 1892, he found in possession of the four lands a man 
Waas, who claimed the land as his own under a transfer. 

In subsequent proceedings the defendant and Waas were 
made respondents, and on 23rd November, 1892, the District Court 
of Chilaw ordered both respondents, Wass and the defendant, to 
yield up possession of the lands within one month on pain of being 
punished for contempt of court. 

Waas appealed, but the order was affirmed by the court on 
.3rd March, 1893. 

Notwithstanding the affirmance of the order, I am of opinion 
that the threat to punish for contempt of court was an er- 
ror and not in conformity with the Code. The respondent 
Waas had brought himself within the 326th section, and, in- 
stead of ordering him to yield possession within a month, 
the District Court ought to have committed him to jail for 
30 days and directed the judgment-creditor to be put in 
possession of the property — and from that order Waas might 
have appealed. 

B 19 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



146 TkE SUPREME COURT REt»ORtS. VoU U, 

Fernando On 30th March, 1893, the District Judge again ordered 

Fernando *^^ defendant and Waas to yield up possession of the lands 

to the plaintiff, within one month from that date on pain of 

being punished for contempt of Court. 

This notice was served on the respondents, but no order 
to put plaintiff in possession was issued to the Fiscal or to 
a headman. 

On#27th April, 1893, the plaintiff, accompanied by the 
Mudaliyar, proceeded to the land to take possession. This 
seems to me to have been premature. The order of the Dis- 
trict Judge of 30th March gave the respondents a month's time. 

The plaintiff states in an affidavit, dated 8th May, 1893, 
that he and the Mudaliyar and several headmen proceeded to 
the lands **when the defendant Santiago, who was on the spot, re- 
fused to yield up possession.** 

The Mudaliyar's report was that the ist defendant, who 
was on the spot, refused to allow the plaintiff to obtain 
possession of the same" (sic). 

When he was examined on oath on August 14th, the 
Mudaliyar said~*'I asked this defendant to give up possessioo 
of the land to the plaintiff. Defendant was in his house. 
He said he did not know that the lands had been sold and 
refused to come out of his house. He refused to give up 
possession of the land to the plaintiff. Defendant said he 
would never allow any one to take possession of the lands 
sold under the writ. I do not know if defendant's residing 
house is on a sold portion or not." 

Plaintifl said as the defendant declined to come, he could 
not take possession of the lands. 

The Constable Aratchi's evidence is that "the Mudaliyar 
called upon the defendant, to deliver possession of the lands to 
plaintiflT and the defendant declined to do so." 

1 think this comes to no more than that the defendant re- 
fused to accompany the plaintiff and the headman. It is by 
no means proved that the house, which the defendant then occu- 
pied, had been purchased by the plaintiff or that the plain- 



Digitized by CiOOQle 



Dec. 9, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. I47 

tift had then any right to call on him to leave it. The charge Fernando 
which the learned 'District Judge framed was — ''that you''com- Fernando. 

mitted a contempt of this court by refusing to }ield up pos- 

session of certain lands to plaintiff as required by the order 
of this court, dated 30th March, 1893, and that you thereby 
committed an oflence punishable under section 800 of the 
Civil Procedure Code." 

Neither in the order of the 30th of March, nor in the 
charge, are the names of the lands given. The charge does 
not disclose an oflfence under section 800. 

I am unaware of any authority for the proposition that 
a refusal to yield possession of lands under a decree of court 
is a contempt of court. 

The oftence of obstructing an officer charged with the 
execution of a writ is a specific offence punishable with 30 
day's imprisonment under section 326. 

Here, the alleged contempt of court was refusing to give 
up possession on the 27th of April of land which the court 
ordered the defendant to yield possession within 30 days of 
the 30th of March. A part of the refusal alleged, was a refusal 
to listen to the Mudaliyar who had no authority to go there, 
or to speak to the defendant. 

The proof does not show that the defendant was in poss- 
ession of the lands purchased. What the plaintiff and the 
Mudaliyar wanted him to do was to make a public submis- 
sion to them, and to walk round the boundaries and point 
them out surrendering all within the limits. 

Theie is, to my mind, no proof that the plaintiff was in 
any way prevented from taking possession of the lands. 

I would set aside the conviction and sentence, and acquit the 
defendant. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



148 THB SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [VoL il. 

Present: — Bonder, c. j., and Lntvrie and Withers^ j. j. 

(November 14. 1893) 

The Hon*ble Jok)} WmJfM Bohapv vjas> sworn in as Chief Justice. 



Before Bon^Hrr, c. i. 

November 16, 1B93. 

MENDIS r. APPUHAMI. 

[No. 10,101, P. C, Negombc] 

PrelimiiHtry hiquiiy "NiPU'Rummary (1ha}^e — Dise]uirge by 
J \)Uce Mag inf t y/ /^ — A pftf*a /. 

A Magistrate holding a preliminary inquiry into a non-summary charj^c has 
the discretion of decidijig wtiether there are sufficient grounds for committing 
the accused for trial. 

It is the duty of the Nfagistrate in such a case to ascertain whether there 
are grounds for putting the accused to the ignominy and expense of a trial; and 
the Magistrate would Tail in his duty if he send up a case for trial where he 
considered the prosecution was utterly unreliable and that there was no possibility 
of a conviction. 

In this case the accused was charged with forgery, an 
oflence beyond the summary jurisdiction of the Police Court. 
The Magistrate, after the preliminary inquiry into the charge 
under Chapter XVI. of the Criminal Procedure Code, discharged 
the accused, being of opinion that there was not sufficient 
evidence for his committal. 

The complainant appealed. 
W&ndtf for appellant. 
Domhorst^ for respondent. 

BoNSER, c. j, — This is an appeal against the order of a 
Magistrate who discharged a defendant who had been charged 
before him with forgery of a lease. It appears to have been 
laid down by this Court that an appeal does lie against such 
an order, and I do not question the law as so laid down. 
But I do think it is a most inconvenient state of things, that 
an appeal should lie under such circumstances, and I entirely 
agree with the view of the late Chief Justice in the case of 
Kalu BancUi v, Pusumba, reported II. C, L. R. I, that it is 
better to leave this question to the authority designated by 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. 9, '93.] THfi eypRBiifi court rbports. 149 

the Code, as the responsible officer in this matter, viz, the Mendis 
Attorney-General, at the same time an appeal lies, and we apfuhamy 

have to consider it, however inconvenient it may be. But we 

should require the strongest possible case l)efore we could 
interfere. Now the law has left to the Police Magistrat-e the 
discretion of deciding wnether there are sufficient grounds for 
committing an accused for trial. Mr. Wendi endeavoured to 
argue that the Magistrate in discharging the accused in this 
case had acted illegally. But there appears to be no ground 
for such a suggestion. The Magistrate's duty is to consider 
the evidence and to exercise his judicial discretion. He has 
to ascertain whether there are grounds for putting an accused 
to the ignominy and expense of a trial, and a Magistrate 
would fail in his duty if he send up a case for trial, where 
he considered the prosecution was utterly unreliable and that 
there was no possibility of a conviction. In this case the 
Magistrate considered most carefully the evidence adduced 
for the prosecution and has formed a very strong opinion thereon, 
and I see no reason for differing from him. 

There are many grounds of suspicion in the case. It is 
a curious thing that there is a deed prepared in a Notary's 
Office, prepared by a clerk, the lessor is a person well known 
and on intimate terms with the Notary, and yet the Notary 
attests the signature of a stranger, who, he sa}s, he thought 
somebody else with a similar name, a "rather fair man.*' It 
is also remarkable that the clerk in whose hand-writing the 
deed was prepared is not called ; no person is called who took * 
the instructions for the deed. 

Under these circumstances the Magistrate was justified 
in discharging the accused. 

The respondent's costs in this appeal must lu' p^id by ihe 
appellant, as taxed by the Registrar. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



150 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

Before Bomer^ c. j., and Lruvrie, and WitJiers, j. j. 

November 28, 1893 

FERNANDO r, FERNANDO. 

[No. 16,443 ^' C., Negombo.] 

Last imll — Incidental proof-^-Inconvenieywe — Probate. 

A Court may, \ri its discretion, allow a will to be proved incidentally in 
the course of an action; but it would be highly inconvenient to do so. 

Where a will is sought to be so proved the Court would be well-advised 
if it adjourns the case to enable the parties to prove the will in independent 
proceedings. 

This was an appeal by the defendant from an order of 
the District Judge {Bainngarthfr) refusinpf to allow a will to 
be proved incidentally in the course oi a trial. 

Weiidt (Sauipayo with him) for defendant-appellant cited 
20,703. D. C. BaduUa, (2 C. L. R 140); Paranatale *\ Punchi- 
menica, RamaNathan (1863-68), p. 325. 

Lai/anly A.-G.^ {Dornhori<t with him) for plaintiff-respondent 
cited Stone r. Forsyth, 2 Donglas 108; Bradford /'. Young 
54 L. J. Equity p. 96 ; 514, D. C, Caltura (2 C. L. R. 140). 

BoNSER, c. J. — This is an appeal from a judgment of the 
District Judge of Negombo, who refused to allow a ^ill, 
wliich was sought to be put in evidence by the defendants, 
to be provetl incidentally in this suit. The will has not been 
proved in the District Court which had jurisdiction to grant 
probate ; and the defendants sought to prove it in this suit. 

The learned District Judge was referred to a case (No. 
20,703., D. C, Badulla), reported in 2 C. L. R. 140, as an 
authority for the course of procedure which the defendants 
wished to follow. The learned District Judge declined to follow 
that case; and in that, I think, he w^as wrong; because it 
was a judgment of this Court, and it was binding on him, 
until it was reversed by this Court. But although he was 
not, in my opinion, justified in refusing to acknowledge the 
authority of that case, still, I think, the course which he 
adopted was on the whole in accordance with convenience and 
the due administration of justice. That case, as I read it, 
merely decides that if the learned judge had admitted the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. 9> *93-] "^HE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 15^ 

Will to be proved in the course of the suit, he would not Fernando 
have acted illegally. But I do not read that case as deciding keknando. 

that he was bound to do so. I think that, although the District 

Court may have jurisdiction to do this, yet, it would be in 
most cases exceedingly inconvenient to exercise its jurisdiction 
in this way. It would be manifestly inconvenient to try the 
issue of the validity ot a Will involving questions as to the 
sanity of the testator, the due execution of the Will and 
other like questions incidentally in the course of an action 
for goods sold and delivered. 

Therefore I am of opinion that in the great majority 
of cases where a will is sought to be proved in this way a 
judge would be wellad vised if he adjourns the case to enable the 
parties to prove the Will in independent proceedings. I tliink 
that what the learned judge did in this matter was right, 
though, I think, his reasons were wrong. 

The case must be sent back, to be dealt with in accordance 
with the opinion expressed by this Court. 

Lawrie and Withers, j.j., concurred. 



Before Bonsefy c. j. 

November i6, 1893. 

DISSANAYEKE y. APPUHAMI. 

[No. 17,130, P. C, Kandy.] 

Arrack — PoHHt\sHimi — B^ntoval — ***4 gallon or IhereabouW — 

Ordinance No. 10 of 1844, section 33. 

Section 33 of Ordinance 10 ot 1844 enacts that '*no spirit distilled from 
the produce of the cocodnui or other dtscription of palm, or of the sugar cant;, 
in any quantity exceeding two quarts, shall be removed without a permit 
accompanying the same "•* — 

//«•/</, that, under this section, it was not an offence to be in possession ol 
more than two quarts of arrack without a permit. 

Thr accused was charged with "having been in possession of one gallon 
of arrack or iherealx>uis without a permit." 

JM(f, that the charge was bad, inasmuch as **a gallon or thereabouts' 
may be less than two quarts. 

The accused was convicted, under section 33 of Ordinance 
10 of ' i8i|4, of having been in possession of one gallon of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



152 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. U. 

DissANAYEKE arrack or thereabouts without a permit as required by that 

Appuhamy section. 

In appeal. 

VanLangenberg appeared for the accused -appellant. 

BoNSBR, c. J. — I think that in this case the conviction must 
be set aside. 

The defendant was convicted of "being in posse^on of 
(removing) more than two quarts of arrack without a permit 
in the form required by the Ordinance 10 of 1844, section 
33." On reference to this section it will be found that the 
only offence is "removing/* 

" Possession*' isnot anoffencebutthe^iemovar'of any quantity 
of arrack exceeding two quarts is an offence under the Ordinance 
and punishable under that section. The charge, and the com- 
plaint was adopted by the Magistrate as the charge, was that 
the defendant was found in possession of one gallon of arrack 
"or thereabouts." It is clear that this was no legal offence 
because "a gallon or thereabouts'* may be less than two 
quarts. The words "or thereabouts** make the quantity un- 
certain, and, therefore, the defendant was charged with an 
offence which is no offence in law. 

It is further alleged by appellant that there was no 
satisfactory evidence of the quantity of arrack in the jar, 
and I agree with the contention. The prosecutor says that 
it contained six bottles of arrack. Now the only evidence of 
what a bottle contained is to be found in the evidence of the 
tavern-keeper, Hendrick Rodrigo, who says that three bottles 
are 14^ gills. Therefore, there being 32 gills in a gallon, it 
is clear that in six bottles there are only 29 gills, and the 
result will be that the quantity is short by three gills of the 
legal quantity. The Magistrate seems to have been very much 
influenced by the fact that the jar was in a gunny bag. He 
says, "who is going to carry about a gallon jar with arrack 
in it in a gunny bag unless, it is full and unless for an un- 
lawful purpose." The answer, of course, which the Magistrate 
expects to this question, is that no one would carry about a 
gallon, &c., &c. I cannot see anything to lead me to this 
conclusion or to justify this inference. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. 20, 93.] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 153 

I think, therefore, that the Magistrate was wrong in the Dbsanayeke 
conclusion he arrived at, and that his judgment must be reversed, appuhamv 
No order as to costs. 



Before Bnrnnidr, c. j. and Lnwrie and Withers^ j. j. 

January 24 and February 10, 1893. 

SIMAN V. NANDO. 

[No. 1,178. D. C. Galle.] 

jJefetidant as Plaintiff's Wifeless — Inte^sted iKirty — Adverse 
Witness— 17 Jc 18 Vict, G, 126, Sertifm 22. 

The evidence of a defendant called by the plaintiflf as his witness is not 
conclusive against the plaintiff*. 

Such evidence is no more than the evidence of an interested party, which 
may be contradicted by the evidence of other witnesses. 

In this case the plaintiff called the defendant as his 
witness. The defendant gave hostile e\idence, and the 
District Judge (Saram) dismissed the plaintiff's action, holding that 
the defendant's evidence was conclusive against the plaintiff. 

The plaintifi appealed. 

M'efidt^ for plaintiff -appellant. 

Domhorsti for defendant -respondent. • 

On February 10, the following judgments were delivered : — 
Burnside, c. j. — I cannot agree with the District Judge, if 
I understand his judgment aright, that because the plaintiff 
called defendant who gave hostile evidence against him, there- 
fore such evidence must prevail. 

The evidence of a party to the suit is always regarded 
as that of an interested party. 

The evidence of the defendant in his favour is not neces- 
sarily stronger evidence against the plaintiff than the piaintifi's 
evidence is in his own favour, and the District Judge should have 
balanced all the conflicting evidence in the case. I would send 
the case back to be reheard, but I cannot expect the District 
Judge to change his opinion, and, as the plaintiff has exhausted 
all his evidence, I tliink that, balancing the evidence, as the 

B 30 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



'J34 



THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 



Vol. ii. 



SiMAN 
V. 

Nando. 



District Judge should have done, the weight of evidence is in 
favour of the plaintiff, and he should have judgment. 

Lawrie, j. — In the course of the trial the plaintiff called 
the I St defendant as a witness, though his name did not appear 
in the list. 

As might have been expected, the ist defendant gave evidence 
in support of his own case. 

The learned District Judge dismissed the action on the 
ground that this witness called by 'the plaintiff proved the 
defendant's case. 

He did not adjudicate on the other evidence. 

He felt himself bound to take ist defendant's evidence as 
evidence against plaintiff. 

He seems to have regarded it as equivalent to the old 
Roman Dutch reference to Oath which was decisive of the 
question put to the adversary. 

The act 17 and 18 Vict. C. 125, section 22 provides "that 

a party producing a witness . may in case the 

witness shall in the opinion of the judge prove "adverse," that 
is, hostile, as contradistinguished from being merely unfavour- 
able, contradict by other evidence.'' 

^ Here to use the words of Taylor, (Evidence, section 1262) 
** the defendant stood in a situation which of necessity made 
him adverse to the party calling him" and the plaintiff, in 
my opinion, had the right to call other witnesses to contradict 
the ist defendant, and the District Judge ought to have weighed 
the evidence as a whole, and not to have considered the testimony 
of the defendant, as conclusive against the plaintiff. 

I was inclined to send the case back to the District Court, but 
as the Chief Justice and brother Withers are of opinion that, on 
the evidence, plaintii) is entitled to judgment, I agree to the judg- 
ment being set aside. Judgment entered for plaintifi with costs. 

Withers, j. — 1 am prepared to give plaintifi judgment 
here and now. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. 20, '93J "THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. 155 

Before Lawne and Witlwrs^ j. j. 
December 8 and i2, 1893. 

de silva v. sella UMMA. 

[No. 2,670, 'D. C, Colombo.] 

Writ Against Person — Rttj)€es two hundred — Partial Recovert/ 

— Action for Realisation of Mortgage — 

Form of Writ — More tJuin one Judgtuent Debtor — 

Separate Writs — Civil Procedure Code, 

Sections %98 and 306. 

On the return, to a Writ of Execution against property, in satisfaction of 
a decree awarding a sum of Rs. 200 and over, that property of a judgment 
debtor has been levied af a part of the sum so decreed, and that the Fiscal can 
find no further property of the debtor, out of which to levy the unsatisBed 
balance, the Court may issue a warrant for the arrest of the judgment debtor. 

The facts sufficiently appear from the judgments. 
Sampayo, for appellant. 
DornJiorsty for respondent. 

On December 12, the following judgments were delivered : — 
Lawrie, j. — I agree to affirm. When a judgment creditor 
holds a decree wherein the sum awarded inclusive of interest 
up to the date of the decree, but exclusive of any further 
interest, and exclusive of costs, amounts to above Rs. 200, 
and when after seizure and sale, the Fiscal reports that a 
partial recovery has been made, which reduces the debt to 
below Rs. 200, and that he is unable to find any more pro- 
perty of the judgment debtor moveable or immoveable, then, 
in my opinion, the Code permits the Court to issue a warrant 
for the arrest of a judgment -debtor. In other words, a debtor 
may be incarcerated for non-payment of a sum less than 
Rs. 200, provided the decree was for a larger amount. If 
a man be imprisoned for non-payment of more than Rs. 200, 
he cannot claim his release, as a matter of right, until the 
decree is fully satisfied. A partial payment is not sufficient, 
but the powers of the Court to refuse to* incarcerate or to 
release after incarceration are large, provided the Court be 
satisfied that the debtor has no property, which can be sold 
in execution. A harmless and honest debtor who lies in jail 
has only himself to thank, if he does not apply to the Court, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Igt THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. -[Vol. ii' 

De Silva under the provisions of the 306th and the subsequent sections 

Sella Umma ^f the Code. 

— Here, while I do not altogether agree with the reasons 

given by the learned District Judge, I am not disposed to 
set aside this order, and to require him to send the defendant 
to jail. 

The warrant of arrest issued on the loth of May, 1893, 
proceeded on the return by the Fiscal, dated the 13th April 
1393, which was a misleading and inaccurate return. It 
stated that the Fiscal on the 28th March was unable to 
find any property, moveable or immoveable, of the defendant, 
but it omitted to state that prior to the service of the writ 
on the 28th March, property had been seized and sold. In 
my opinion, the warrant of arrest should not issue, and if 
issued, should not be followed by the committal of the 
debtor, unless the procedure required by the Code has been 
strictly followed. 

I may add that, in my opinion, the writ against property 
was not in proper form. It ought tc have been in terms of 
the decree— not an ordinary writ of execution of property, 
but a special writ to the Fiscal, that in default of payment, 
he should sell the mortgage property described in the decree. 

It is also worthy of the attention of the District Judge, 
whether in cases where there are several judgment debtors, 
} separate writs against each debtor should not issue, instead of, 

as in the present case, one writ against all. 

Withers, j. — In my opinion, on the return, to a writ 01 
execution against property, in satisfaction of a decree award- 
lag a sum of Rs. 200 and over, that property of a judgment 
debtor has been levied as to part of the sum' so decreed, 
and that the Fiscal can find no further property of the 
debtor, out of which to levy the unsatisfied balance, it is 
competent to the Court to issue a warrant for the arrest of 
the judgment-debtor. 

In this particular case, however, the return to the writ 
of the 13th of April was defective in two particulars. It 
omitted to mention the fact of a levy on the ist defiendant*s 
property for a sum of Rs. 290, and it did not say, as to the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. TO, '93.] THE SUPREME COURT RBPORTS.i 1 57 

2nd defendant, that the Fiscal could find no property of his, I^e Silva 
out of which to levy execution for the balance. At the foot sella Umma 

of the return to the joint writ against the two defendants it 

is staled " I have been unable to find any property of the 
judgment debtor (w/r) moveable or immoveable." 

It is not said which debtor, iuyn-cotisUtt that it was the 
second, rather than the first, defendant. 

There was therefore no such foundation, as the section 
29S of the Civil Procedure Code requires, for the issue of a 
warrant of arrest against the 2nd defendant ; moreover, the 
decree required execution against specific moveable, as well as 
specific immoveable property of the two defendants, in default 
of payment of the sum thereby awarded, /. e, Rs. 3H8 25, with 
interest and costs (Rs. 250), land thereafter the defendants were 
ordered to pay the deficiency, if any, after the realisation of 
those mortgaged properties. The writ was not in conformity 
with this decree. Before the Court could issue a warrant 
of arrest against either debtor for a balance, if any, of the ' 
sum of Rs. 3H8-25, it was incumbent on the Fiscal to satisfy 
the Court that he had first levied on those properties or 
was unable to do so, by reason whereof, payment of the 
balance could be enforced in the usual way. 

For these reasons, I think, the order, appealed from, should 
be affirmed with costs. 



Before Lawrip, j. 

November 29, and December 5, 1893. 

CAVE V. WILLIAM. 

(Cave's Case.) 

[No. 26,803, P. C, Colombo.] 

Jo^tnieymhu Artijicor — Macliine-i^uler — Ordhiaiuc Nn. // tif 

1866, Sectiona 3, 6, 7 and 11— Charge— 

Alteration. 

A machine-ruler, who has entered into a contract of monthly service, is a 
"Journeyman Artificer/' >\iihin the meaning of Ordinance II of I865. 

The accused was charged as follows: — "That he, being a 
Journeyman Artificer did, on the 12th September 1893, *^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



158 THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. [Vol.il 

Cave Colombo, without reasonable cause, neglect to attend at the office 
William ^' Messrs. H. W. Cave & Co., his employers, between the 
hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., during which hours it was usual, ac- 
cording to his occupation, being that of a machine-ruler, for him 
to attend, and that he thereby committed an offence punish- 
able under section 11 of the Ordinance 11 of 1865." 

The Magistrate (Pagden) acquitted the accused on the ground 
that he was not a Journeyman Artificer. 

The Attorney-QeiiPral appealed. 

Dornhorsty for appellant. 

Pertura, for respondent. 

Lawrie, J.— The Ordinance No. di of 1865 applies to three 
classes of earners of wages. 

First, — Menial, domestic, and other like servants. 

Seamd.— Pioneers, Kanganies, and other labourers whether 
employed in Agricultural, Road, Railways, or other like work. 
Third, — Journeyman artificers. 

The accused does not belong to either the first or the second 
class. He was neither a servant who lived and worked within his 
master's house and walls, nor an out-door labourer. 

Contrary to the opinion of the Police Magistrate, 1 hold 
that the accused was a Joitmeymmi Artificer, 

A machine ruler in a printing office is certainly an artificer. 
« 

The difficulty arises from the use by the Legislature of the 

prefix Journeyman. 

Now, although, from the derivation of the word, and from 
the 5th section of the Ordinance 11 of 1865, it is plain that 
Journeyman Artificer primarily means one who contracts to 
work for one day and for no longer, it means, secondarily, artificers 
who make a special contract or agreement to work for a longer 
period than one day. 

The 6th and 7th and many other sections of the Ordinance 
seem to me to show clearly that by such contract he does not 
lose his designation of Jonr^ieyman^ nor does he forfeit the 
privileges, nor escape from the penalties of the Ordinance. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Dec. 20, '93,] THE SUPREME COURT REPORTS. I59 

In Police Court, Gampola, 25,204, November 11, 1873, Cave 
reported in 2nd Grenier Police Courts, p. 98, -Sir Edward Creasy, wiluam 

c. J., held, that a man was a Journeynuin Artijicei^ although he 

had contracted to serve for an indefinite period, namely, until 
he had repaid an advance. 

If an artificer, who enters into such an indefinite contract, is 
liable to punishment imposed on Jtmt'nPi/tnan A ?i (ft rrrn by the 
nth section, much more is an artificer liable, who enters into 
a definite contract of monthly service. 

In a case decided by the same Judge on nth February, 1893, 
reported in 2 Grenier, p, 13, a lithographing boy was held not to 
be a servant, or a labourer, but the Court does not seem to have 
considered the question, whether he was a Journey man Artificer. 

I read the words Jonnieynuin Artifice ra^ in this Ord- 
inance, as meaning all skilled workmen in the regular employ- 
ment of an employer, who are not indoor house servants nor 
out of door labourers, who are by law presumed to work by 
the day for day's wages, including those who legally contract to 
work and serve for a longer time. 

I hold that it is proved that the accused entered into a con- 
tract of monthly service, and had worked in terms of that 
contract, and had received monthly wages for several years. 
On 12th September, 1893, ^^ without reasonable cause, refused 
to attend at, and during the time and hours, and at the place 
where, and when he contracted to attend, before the end of his 
term' of service, without previous warning, as required by the 
3rd section of the Ordinance, and that he thereby committed 
an offence punishable under the nth section of the Ordinance 
II of 1865. 

The charge should be altered by adding the words, after 
Journeyman Arftjicer^ "being bound by contract to serve for the 
period of one month renewable month by month.^' 

I set aside the acquittal, and find the accused guilty of the 
above offence and sentence him to one week's simple imprison- 
ment. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



l6o . THE SUPRBME COURT REPORTS. [Vol. ii. 

Before Lawrie j. 
November 29 and 30, 1893. 

VAN HOUTEN v. SOOTA. 

[No. 7,707, M. C, Colombo.] 

Tom-tow cheating of — AIIp(/afio)is rutd prtmf — Limice — Ordinance 
No. 16 of 1866, M(*ctw/t 90. 

In a prosecution, under section 90 of Ordinance 16 of 1865. it is not incumbent 
on the complainant to allege and prove that beating a tom-tom was calculated 
to frighten horses^ or that it was done by night, ko as to disturb the repose of 
the inhabitants. It is enough to allege and prove that the accused, not being 
under Military Regulations, beat a tom-tom, within a town, without a licence. 

The accused was charged under section 90 of Ordinance 
16 of 1865 in that " he, not being under \lilitary Regulations, 
beat a tom-tom within a town, without a license." 

The accused, having pleaded guilty, wassentencedtopay a fine. 

In appeal. 

Pereira for appellant. There is no evidence that the 
beating of tom-tom frightened horses or tiiat it disturbed 
the public repose, &c. In the absence of such evidence, the 
j^ccused cannot be convicted of an offence under section 90 
of Ordinance 16 of 1865. 

On November 30, the following judgment was delivered:— 

Lawrie, j. — The accused pleaded guilty and was sentenced 
to pay a fine. 

There is no appeal.* 

The legislature by section 90 of Ordinance 16 of 1865 
has made the beating of drums and tom-toms within a town, 
an offence, unless it be done under either Military Regulations 
or a Hcense from the Police Magistrate or a Superintendent or 
an Inspector of Police. 

It is not necessary for a complainant to allege and prove that 
beating a tom-tom was calculated to frighten horses, or that it 
was done by night so as to disturb the repose of thfe inhabitants. 
It is enough to allege and prove that the accused, not being under 
Military Regulations, beat a tom-tom, within a town, without a 
license. This the accused has admitted. His admission was 
rightly construed as a plea of guilty. 

The appeal is dismissed. 



End of Volume II. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I 



m^^ 



^;JtK 



